{"id": "57296273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57296273", "title": "2016 Indian Line of Control strike", "text": "2016 Indian Line of Control strike\n\nOn 29 September 2016, India announced that it conducted \"surgical strikes\" against militant launch pads across the Line of Control in Pakistani-administered Kashmir, and inflicted \"significant casualties\". Indian media reported the casualty figures variously from 35 to 50. Partial footage of the surgical strikes was released to the Indian media on 27 June 2018.\n\nPakistan rejected this claim, stating that Indian troops had not crossed the Line of Control but had only skirmished with Pakistani troops at the border, resulting in the deaths of two Pakistani soldiers and the wounding of nine. Pakistan rejected India's reports of any other casualties. Pakistani sources reported that at least 8 Indian soldiers were killed in the exchange, and one was captured. India confirmed that one of its soldiers was in Pakistani custody, but denied that it was linked to the incident or that any of its soldiers had been killed. Pakistan said India was hiding its casualties.\n\nMedia outlets noted that the details regarding the \"attack\" were still unclear. Earlier that month, four militants had attacked the Indian army at Uri on 18 September in the Indian-administered state of Jammu and Kashmir, and killed 19 soldiers. India's announcement of the claimed raid on 29 September marked the first time that the government had publicly acknowledged its forces crossing the Line of Control, amidst skepticism and disputing accounts. In the succeeding days and months, India and Pakistan continued to exchange fire along the border in Kashmir, resulting in dozens of military and civilian casualties on both sides.\n\nOn 18 September, a a \"fedayeen\" attack was made by four armed militants on an army base near the town of Uri. Nineteen Indian Army soldiers were killed. India accused Jaish-e-Muhammad, a Pakistan-based terrorist organisation. Having come after similar \"fidayeen\" attacks in Gurdaspur and Pathankot, the Uri attack gave rise to high degree of concern in India. The following day, the Indian army said that it had displayed considerable restraint in the wake of the attacks, but it reserved the right to respond \"at the time and place of our own choosing.”.\n\n\"The Guardian\" said that Indian patience had run out due to Pakistan's inaction in curbing the activities of terrorist organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. On 21 September, India summoned the Pakistan High Commission Abdul Bassit and gave a protest letter detailing the involvement of a terrorist group based in Pakistan. Pakistan later said that India had provided no evidence that the Uri attack was launched from Pakistan. Pakistan's defence minister suggested that India had carried out the Uri attack to deflect attention from the popular protests in Jammu and Kashmir. The \"Hindustan Times\" reported that the minister's comments made up an \"inflection point\", after which India decided to respond militarily.\n\nIndian officials said that the cross-border infiltration across the Line of Control had surged since the unrest began in Kashmir. The persons crossing the border showed evidence of military training. According to a government source close to Home Minister Rajnath Singh, a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security was held on 24 September, at which \"broad details of targeting terrorists\" were discussed.\n\nOn 29 September, eleven days after the Uri attack, the Indian army reported that it conducted surgical strikes against suspected militants in Pakistani-administered Kashmir. Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, Indian Director General of Military Operations (DGMO), said that it had received \"very credible and specific information\" about \"terrorist teams\" who were preparing to \"carry out infiltration and conduct terrorist strikes inside Jammu and Kashmir and in various metros in other states\". The Indian action was meant to pre-empt their infiltration. India presented its operation as preemptive self-defence against terrorism, striking against terrorist infrastructure along with \"those who are trying to support them.\" Columnist Ankit Panda thought the latter included Pakistani soldiers or the elements of Pakistani state. On 30 September, Indian minister for information and broadcasting Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore said that there had been no aerial strikes and that the operation had been conducted \"on the ground\".\n\nRanbir Singh said that his Pakistani counterpart had been informed. The Pakistani military said the DGMO communications discussed only the cross-border firing, which was part of the existing rules of engagement.\n\nPakistan denied that such surgical strikes occurred. The Inter-Services Public Relations said that there had been only \"cross border firing\". But, Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif condemned the \"unprovoked and naked aggression of Indian forces\", which he said resulted in the death of two Pakistani soldiers.\n\nUN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon said that the UN Observer Group in Pakistani Kashmir did not directly observe any \"firing across the Line of Control\" relating to the incident. The Indian envoy at UN Syed Akbaruddin dismissed this statement, saying \"facts on the ground do not change whether somebody acknowledges or not.\"\n\nAnalyst Sandeep Singh, writing in \"The Diplomat,\" said that the operation is better characterised as a cross-border raid because \"surgical strikes\" involve striking deep into the enemy territory and typically using air power.\n\nIndian officials said the strike targeted areas close to the Line of Control (LoC), where it believes militants congregate for their final briefings before sneaking across the LoC. An Indian security source said the operation began with Indian forces firing artillery across the frontier to provide cover for three to four teams of 70–80 commandos from the 4th and 9th battalions of the Parachute Regiment (part of Para (Special Forces)) to cross the LoC at several separate points shortly after midnight IST on 29 September (18:30 hours UTC, 28 Sep). Teams from 4 Para crossed the LoC in the Nowgam sector of Kupwara district, with teams from 9 Para simultaneously crossing the LoC in Poonch district. By 2 a.m. IST, according to army sources, the special forces teams had travelled 1–3 km on foot, and had begun destroying the terrorist bases with hand-held grenade and 84 mm rocket launchers. The teams then swiftly returned to the Indian side of the Line of Control, suffering only one casualty, a soldier wounded after tripping a land mine.\n\nThe Indian Army said the strike was a pre-emptive attack on militant bases, claiming that it had received intelligence that the militants were planning \"terrorist strikes\" against India. India said that, in destroying \"terrorist infrastructure\" it also attacked \"those who are trying to support them\", indicating it attacked Pakistani soldiers too. India later briefed opposition parties and foreign envoys, but did not disclose operational details.\n\nSome Indian media claimed that the Indian army infiltrated 2–3 km into Pakistani territory, but the Indian Army did not say whether its troops crossed the border or had simply fired across it. India said that none of its soldiers were killed though two soldiers were injured. It also stated that one of its soldiers, from 37 Rashtriya Rifles, was captured by Pakistan after he \"inadvertently crossed over to the Pakistan side\", though not during the \"surgical strikes.\"\n\nInitially, Indian media claimed that the army used helicopters during the skirmish. On 30 September, an Indian minister denied that there were any helicopters used, stating the operation was conducted \"on the ground\".\n\nPakistan denied that any surgical strikes occurred. Pakistan's Foreign Office rejected the claim as \"baseless\" and said India was \"deliberately\" escalating conflict. The Pakistan Army said that there had only been \"cross border firing\". Pakistan warned that it would respond militarily should any surgical strike actually occur. The two soldiers killed were identified as Naik Imtiaz and Havildar Jumma Khan.\n\nPakistani sources reported that up to fourteen Indian soldiers were killed in retaliatory firing and one was captured, Chandu Bablulal Chohan. It further stated that India was concealing its casualty figures from the cross-border firing.\n\nLieutenant general Ranbir Singh, the Indian Army DGMO, only stated during his press conference on 29 September that the number of casualties inflicted had been \"significant.\" Most accounts in the Indian media varied as to the number of militants killed, with most publications giving estimates of 35 to 50 killed. On 9 October, the Indian army said that it had intercepted radio messages of the Pakistan army and claimed that \"around 20\" Lashkar-e-Taiba militants had been killed, including at least 10 during the surgical strikes and nine killed at Balnoi (opposite of Poonch).\n\nOn 1 October, the Pakistani army gave international media outlets including BBC, CNN, VOA, Reuters, AP, AFP and Newsweek a tour of the sites which India claimed to have hit on 29 September. The Pakistan army claimed that had there been a \"surgical strike\", there would have been more damage. The journalists confirmed that the \"area seemed intact\", but added that they only saw what the Pakistani army showed them. \"The Economist\" remarked that they were taken to the border \"under strict supervision, naturally\".\n\nOn 5 October, \"The Indian Express\" stated it had managed to conduct covert interviews with eyewitnesses living across the Line of Control (LoC). The Express claimed that eyewitnesses corroborated the Indian account by describing fire engagements with militants and the destruction of some makeshift buildings that housed militants; but that there was little damage to infrastructure. However, the Express said that according to eyewitness accounts, and classified documents, the number of militants killed was lower than the 38–50 number reported by Indian officials; there were reports that \"five, perhaps six\" bodies had been trucked out the morning after the raids from Dudhnial (4 km from the LoC), while three or four militants were killed near Khairati Bagh. The Express said that the militants, many of whom belonged to Lashkar-e-Taiba, were caught by surprise. Other accounts reported \"fire and explosions\" from the east bank of the Neelum River in Athmuqam.\n\nOn 5 October, India's CNN-News18 claimed that it conducted a \"sting operation\" where their news correspondent posing as an Inspector General of Police made a phone call to a Superintendent of Police (SP) Ghulam Akbar in Mirpur. In an audio conversation aired on the news channel, a voice claiming to be Akbar reveals details about the military action of 29 September including the places of strikes and the number of Pakistani casualties, quoted as 12 people including 5 military personnel. The voice says that the bodies were said to have been carried away in coffins and buried in the villages, and that an unknown amount of militants (\"jihadis\") had also died. On 6 October, Pakistan's Foreign Office said that the voice in the audio conversation did not belong to Ghulam Akbar, and that Akbar had denied the alleged phone conversation. The ministry called the story a fabrication, and hoped that CNN International would take action against its Indian affiliate.\n\nOn 23 October, a BBC News article by M. Ilyas Khan quoted unnamed police officials and locals stating the Indians appeared to have crossed the LoC, in some cases by more than a kilometer, to attack Pakistani border posts. The article said the Indian Army had conducted a ground assault in the Pooch sector, destroying a Pakistani post and killing a soldier; setup their guns on a ridge in Leepa valley, hitting three posts and killing four Pakistani soldiers; and advanced in the Dudhnial sector injuring a Pakistani soldier, but were beaten back after their movements were detected. The report also took statements from villagers at Madarpur (Poonch District) and Leepa Valley (Bagh District) and Dudhnial (Neelam District) who confided that Indian troops directed heavy fire at several Pakistani border posts. The BBC News could not verify if any militants were hit. Villagers in Dudhnial said that they saw one or two damaged structures close to a Pakistani border post. The villagers in Leepa Valley said that, following the attack, there was an increased influx of militants to the valley.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote that by interviewing eye witnesses and anonymous officials, journalists in both Pakistan and India have pieced together an account of what happened:\nIndian intelligence sources claimed that, immediately after the raid, the Pakistan military had buried the corpses of the slain terrorists to erase any evidence and to maintain Pakistan's version of a \"skirmish\" along the Line of Control. However, Pakistan rejected that any such casualties occurred, questioning: \"Where did all the dead bodies go?\" Pakistan's military also pointed to the lack of damage or losses in the site, and welcomed UN observers and journalists to conduct an independent inquiry. Increased firing along the Line of Control was reported the following day.\n\nA senior Indian Home Ministry official subsequently claimed that in the wake of the raid, at least 12 training camps belonging to Lashkar-e-Taiba, Hizbul Mujahideen and Jaish-e-Mohammad had been swiftly moved from their locations at Pir Chanasi, Aksha Maskar and Tabuk near Muzaffarabad in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. Based on satellite images, inputs from foreign intelligence agencies and unnamed \"sources in Pakistan,\" according to the official, the training camps had been relocated \"near crowded towns deep inside Pakistan,\" in the provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab, to \"minimise casualties to their assets.\" According to the Indian official, the camps had housed around 500 militants, 300 of whom belonged to Lashkar-e-Taiba alone.\n\nAn eyewitness living across the LoC was one of five contacted through intermediaries for covert interviews with the \"Indian Express\". He reported that on 30 September, a day after the surgical strikes, several members of Lashkar-e-Taiba had met for Friday prayers at a Lashkar-affiliated mosque in Chalhana. \"The Lashkar men gathered there were blaming the Pak Army for failing to defend the border”, he said, “and [were] saying they would soon give India an answer it would never forget.\" Several days after the raids, a leading Indian security official who had been closely involved in their planning said that Pakistan's continued denial that any surgical strikes took place was a \"stance that suits us.\" He further stated – \"The surprise element in such an operation is key to its success and there will be no predictable repetition. If provoked yet again, we will amend our operational tactics.\"\n\nBoth Indian Defence Minister Parrikar and National Security Advisor Doval were shown original, unedited footage from the military raids were seen on 1 October. After viewing it, Parrikar informed Prime Minister Modi that he was satisfied with what he had seen, and that there was no need to publicly release any footage. In response to calls from members of opposition parties to release the footage, a senior government official stated, \"The Opposition should understand the difference between a covert and overt strike. And it is not incumbent on the Indian Army to release video footage every time they do their duty.\" On 5 October, two senior ministers in the Indian government said the Indian Army had submitted the footage to the government, but that the government, with the concurrence of the army, felt there was no need to release it to the public.\n\nAfter India's operation, India and Pakistan increased their exchanges of small arms and mortar fire across the Line of Control, resulting in frequent reports of Indian and Pakistani casualties.\n\nDefence analysts in Pakistan said it was not possible for Indian forces to breach the heavily armed and fenced LoC border undetected, perform operations at multiple sites over several hours, and return without casualties and military resistance. According to one source, the Indian narrative matched a \"fantastic movie script\" created for public consumption. Ejaz Awan dismissed Indian claims of paratrooper involvement, stating: \"For pulling out these troops, you need helicopters on the ground.\"\n\nBruce Riedel, a United States security expert, said that while India's \"surgical military response\" was \"limited and calibrated,\" it would send a sharp signal to the Pakistani establishment. He added that India could legitimately cite a right to self-defence in taking such strong action, following the example of United States operations in Pakistan against Osama bin Laden and Mullah Akhtar Mansour. Riedel observed, however, that regardless of outside support for India's position, its situation in Kashmir would only worsen unless Prime Minister Modi addressed \"the legitimate demands of Kashmiris.\" This, according to Riedel, would require Modi to adopt a policy on Kashmir \"independent of how he deals with Pakistan,\" though his \"strong popularity gives him much room to act.\"\n\nAcross India, the military raid was widely praised. Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi lauded Prime Minister Modi commenting- \"for the first time in his tenure, he has taken an action that is worthy of the status of a Prime Minister.\"\n\nFollowing the military raid, in anticipation of cross-border shelling from Pakistan, Indian authorities evacuated 10,000 residents of villages located within ten kilometres of the border, in the states of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. Military surveillance was also stepped up along the Line of Control.\n\nPakistan rejected the claim of a surgical strike, stating that Indian troops had only engaged in firing upon Pakistani soldiers, killing two Pakistani soldiers and wounding nine. Journalists surveyed the area where the 'surgical strikes' are said to have taken place, and spoke to locals who said: “They are lying...they never crossed the L.O.C.” The spokesperson for the Pakistani Army asked: “Where is the damage?”, referring to the lack of any evidence of surgical strikes. ISPR spokesman Asim Bajwa termed the \"surgical strike\" claim an \"illusion being deliberately generated by India to create false effects\" and a \"fabrication of the truth\".\n\nPakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif convened an all-parties conference and an emergency cabinet meeting. He stated Pakistan would take any steps necessary to safeguard its territorial integrity. \"We will defend our homeland against any aggression. The entire nation is standing shoulder to shoulder with our armed forces.\" He condemned the \"unprovoked and naked aggression of Indian forces,\" which he said resulted in the death of two Pakistani soldiers.\n\nPakistan's Chief of Army Staff Raheel Sharif termed the Indian claim a \"drama\", adding that \"If Pakistan were to conduct a surgical strike, it would become a chapter in Indian textbooks.\"\n\n\n\nAdviser to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs was confirmed to be attending the 7th Heart of Asia Conference, the first visit by a high-level Pakistani official since December 2015. This was seen as a move to help de-escalate tensions by the Indian media. The situation de-escalated after 23 November, with no incident being reported except the injury of a BSF personnel in Pakistani firing on 2 December. Pakistan's High Commissioner to India Abdul Basit also offered hosting bilateral dialogue at Heart of Asia Conference.\nBut the conference ended without any peace talks and the delegates returned to their countries. Media said that there was a short conversation between Aziz and Indian leaders as soon as he landed. But it was denied this was not billed a de-escalation of border tensions.\n\n\n\"Special Operations: India 'Surgical Strikes\"' (2018) is a TV documentary which premièred on 22 January 2018 on History TV18 Channel. It was directed and produced by Prabhu Asgaonkar and Manika Berry Asgaonkar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2171909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171909", "title": "Achnacarry", "text": "Achnacarry\n\nAchnacarry (; 'field of the fish-trap/weir') is a small hamlet, private estate, and a castle in the Lochaber region of Highland, Scotland. It occupies a strategic position on an isthmus between Loch Lochy to the east, and Loch Arkaig to the west.\n\nThe settlement has a long association with Clan Cameron: Sir Ewen Cameron of Lochiel built the original Achnacarry Castle in about 1655. This was destroyed by government troops after the Battle of Culloden, but \"New Achnacarry\" was built near the same site in Scottish Baronial style in 1802. It was used as a Commando Training Depot during the Second World War and the village retains close ties to British Commandos, the United States Army Rangers and similar units from other allied nations. In 1928, the Achnacarry Agreement was signed, an early attempt to set petroleum production quotas.\n\nAchnacarry is not far from the village of Spean Bridge and about 15 miles north of the town of Fort William. It has been described by Queen Victoria as follows:\n\n\"As you approach Achnacarry, which lies rather low, but is surrounded by very fine trees, the luxuriance of the tangled woods, surmounted by rugged hills, becomes finer and finer till you come to Loch Arkaig, a little over half a mile from the house. This is a very lovely loch, reminding one of Loch Katrine, especially where there is a little pier, from which we embarked on board a very small but nice screw steamer which belongs to Cameron of Lochiel.\"—Royal Visit to Achnacarry, from the Journal of Queen Victoria, Friday, 12 September 1873.\n\nBetween Achnacarry Castle and Loch Arkaig is a path of interwoven trees known as The Dark Mile, or Mile Dorcha.\n\nEwen \"Eoghainn MacAilein\" Cameron, XIII Chief of Clan Cameron, built the highly disputed Tor Castle (said to have been on Clan Mackintosh lands) in the early 16th century. Tor Castle would remain the seat of the Camerons of Lochiel until demolished by his great-great-great grandson, Sir Ewen \"Dubh\" Cameron, XVII Chief.\n\nSir Ewen Cameron wanted a \"more convenient\" house, which was further removed from the Clan Mackintosh, Clan Campbell and Oliver Cromwell's garrison at Inverlochy Castle. He built Achnacarry Castle in around 1655 in a strategic position on the isthmus between Loch Lochy and Loch Arkaig. One of the few remaining descriptions relate that Lochiel's seat was \"a large house, all built of fir-planks, the handsomest of that kind in Britain.\" Sir Ewen's bard described the home somewhere around 1663 in song as \"The generous house of feasting...Pillared hall of princes...Where wine goes round freely in gleaming glasses...Music resounding under its rafters.\" Others portrayed \"old\" Achnacarry as a \"man's home,\" with the feel and look of a grand hunting lodge amidst the West Highlands.\n\nIn 1665 the Stand-off at the Fords of Arkaig took place near Achnacarry, which saw the Camerons finally end their 360-year feud with the Chattan Confederation led by the Clan Mackintosh. \n\nWith Sir Ewen's death in the early 18th century his son John Cameron became Clan Chief, soon after which his son, Donald would assume Achnacarry when Lord Lochiel (as his father was known) fled into exile in Flanders after the first Jacobite Uprising.\n\nFrom Donald Cameron (\"The Gentle Lochiel\") XIX Chief we find the best description of the grounds of Achnacarry. In his marriage contract a requirement was placed in which Lochiel had to build his wife \"a house...to the value of 100 pounds sterling at least, with gardens, office houses [privies], lands, other conveniencys.\" Donald was planting a long line of beech trees near the banks of the River Arkaig when word of \"Bonnie Prince Charlie's\" landing arrived in 1745...it would be the last landscaping done at Achnacarry Castle for years to come.\n\nWith the Jacobite army's defeat at the Battle of Culloden in April 1746 the clans retreated into the Scottish Highlands, with Donald taking the lead in re-grouping them. After this last attempt at resistance failed, he and his men took to the mountains. On May 28, 1746, Donald watched as men from Bligh's Regiment under the command of Lt-Col Edward Cornwallis and an Independent Company of Munros, commanded by George Munro, 1st of Culcairn, burned Achnacarry to the ground. Many valued relics and personal possessions were relocated beforehand, but the great fir-planked \"Old\" Achnacarry was left in ashes.\n\nIn 1802 Achnacarry, which had spent the last fifty or so years in ruin, was rebuilt under Donald Cameron, XXII Chief of Clan Cameron as a Scottish baronial style home, although this \"New Achnacarry\" is still referred to as a castle. His wife Anne \"née\" Abercromby engaged James Gillespie as architect.\n\nIn 1928 Achnacarry served as the meeting place for global petroleum producers in an effort to set production quotas. A document known as the Achnacarry Agreement or \"As-Is\" Agreement was signed on 17 September 1928.\n\nThe current building and the surrounding estate gained fame as the Commando Training Depot for the Allied Forces from March 1942 to 1945. British Commandos, United States Army Rangers and commandos from France, the Netherlands, Norway, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Belgium trained there. Each training course culminated in an \"opposed landing\" exercise around the area of nearby Bunarkaig on Loch Lochy. As live ammunition was used, there were some casualties whilst training at Achnacarry. Some 25,000 commandos completed training at the centre during the four years it was in use.\nThe castle also suffered some damage due to fire. Several military associations still sponsor a Commando march either annually or from time to time. Generally it is a timed seven mile march, in full battle gear, backpack and combat boots, from Spean Bridge (site of the striking Commando Memorial) to Achnacarry.\n\nIn August 2001, Achnacarry served as the site of the International Gathering of Clan Cameron, commemorating the 50th anniversary of Colonel Sir Donald Hamish Cameron of Lochiel, K.T., XXVI Chief of Clan Cameron. It also hosted the International Gathering of Clan Cameron in the summer of 2009.\n\nAlthough the castle itself is in private hands and is not open to the public, the commando memorial can be visited.\n\nVisitors are welcome at the Clan Cameron Museum about a quarter-mile from the castle. The current Chief of Clan Cameron, traditionally known simply as \"Lochiel\", Donald Cameron of Lochiel, continues to live in Achnacarry. Displays in the museum include the clan's legends, chiefs, slogans, history, clan lands in Lochaber, and notable clansmen. Other exhibits include artifacts associated with the castle and estate's history, with the Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders, and with \"Bonnie Prince Charlie\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58685603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58685603", "title": "Agence nationale de sécurité", "text": "Agence nationale de sécurité\n\nThe Agence nationale de sécurité (ANS) is the intelligence agency of the Republic of Chad. It is the successor of the Documentation and Security Directorate (DDS) which was created by the former President Hissène Habré. The current Director is Kogri Ahmed, who was appointed May 2013 by current President Idriss Déby. While the ANS was not created as a law enforcement agency (those duties instead being done by the National Gendarmerie) they were given powers of arrest in 2017.\n\nThe ANS has been active in fighting against Boko Haram.\n\nThe ANS has been accused of human rights violations, continuing the legacy left by the former DDS that it replaced. Those detained by the ANS are unable to contact their family members or their lawyers, and frequently nobody is aware of their detention. Critics maintain that the ANS is used as an armed wing of Déby's Patriotic Salvation Movement rather than an independent organization focused on counter-terrorism.\n"}
{"id": "51775159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51775159", "title": "Asura: The City of Madness", "text": "Asura: The City of Madness\n\nAsura: The City of Madness () is a 2016 South Korean crime action film directed by Kim Sung-su. The film revolves around Han Do-kyung, a shady cop, who becomes caught between internal affairs and the city's corrupt mayor. Starring Jung Woo-sung, Hwang Jung-min, Ju Ji-hoon and Kwak Do-won in the lead roles, it released theatrically on 28 September 2016 in South Korea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54355513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54355513", "title": "Autonomous social center", "text": "Autonomous social center\n\nAutonomous social centers are self-managed community centers in which non-authoritarians, often as volunteers, enact principles of mutual aid. These community spaces, often in multi-purpose venues affiliated with anarchism, can include propaganda library infoshops and non-hierarchical free skools.\n\nWestern anarchists have long created enclaves in which they could live their societal principles of non-authoritarianism, mutual aid, gifting, and conviviality in microcosm. Some of these community sites include Wobbly union halls (1910s, 1920s), Barcelonan community centers during the Spanish Revolution, and squatted community centers since the 1960s. They share a lineage with the radical intentional communities that have periodically surfaced throughout history and are sometimes termed Temporary Autonomous Zones or \"free spaces\", in which a counter-hegemonic resistance can form arguments and tactics. Anarchists outside the class-struggle and workplace activism tradition instead organize through autonomous spaces including social centers, squats, camps, and mobilizations. While these alternative, autonomous institutions tend to exist in transience, their proponents argue that their ideas are consistent between incarnations and that temporary institutions prevents government forces from easily clamping down on their activities.\n\nA free, or autonomous, space is defined as a place independent from dominant institutions and ideologies, formed outside standard economic relations, and fostering self-directing freedom through self-reliance. These nonhierarchical rules encourage experimental approaches to organization, power-sharing, social interaction, personal development, and finance. Social centers can be squatted, rented, or owned cooperatively. They are largely self-maintained by volunteers and often close for reasons of burnout and reduced participation, especially if participant free time wanes as their economic circumstances change.\n\nSince the 1980s, young Italians maintained independent, self-managed social centers (\"centri sociali\") where they gathered to work on cultural projects, listen to music, discuss politics, and share basic living information. By 2001, there were about 150 social centers, set up in abandoned, squatted buildings, such as former schools and factories. These centers operate outside state and free market control, and have an oppositional relationship with the police, often portrayed by conservative media as magnets for crime and illicit behavior. The Italian cultural centers were sometimes funded by city cultural programming.\n\nIn the United States, autonomous social spaces primarily take the form of infoshops and radical bookstores, such as Bluestockings in New York City and Red Emma's in Baltimore. Since the 1990s, North American anarchists have created community centers, infoshops, and free spaces to foster alternative cultures, economies, media, and schools as a counterculture with a do-it-yourself ethic. These social spaces, as distinguished from regional intentional communities of the midcentury, often seek to integrate their community with the existing urban neighborhood instead of wholly \"dropping out\" of society to rural communes.\n\nIn Great Britain, the rise of social centers as cultural activity and political organizing hubs has been a major feature of the region's radical and anarchist politics.\n\nInfoshops are multi-functional spaces that disseminate alternative media and provide a forum for alternative cultural, economic, political, and social activities. Individual infoshops vary in features but can include a small library or reading room and serve as a distribution center for both free and priced/retail alternative media, particularly media with revolutionary anarchist politics. While infoshops can serve as a kind of community library, they are designed to meet the information needs of its users rather than to compete with the public library or per-existing information centers. For alternative publishers and activist groups, infoshops can offer low-cost reprographic services for do-it-yourself publications, and provide a postal mail delivery address for those who cannot afford a post office box or receive mail at a squatted address. In the 1990s, available tools ranged from no-frills photocopiers to desktop publishing software. Besides these print publication functions, infoshops can also host meetings, discussions, concerts, or exhibitions. For instance, as activist video grew in the 1990s, infoshops screened films and hosted discussion groups that, in turn, encouraged debate and collective action. The infoshop attempts to offer a space where individuals can publish without the restrictions of the mainstream press and discuss alternative ideas unimpeded by homophobia, racism, and sexism.\n\nOrganized by political activists, infoshops are often independent, precariously self-funded, and unaffiliated with any organization or council. They too are often staffed by their own self-selected users as volunteers and like the anarchist media they distribute, operate on inexpensive, borrowed, or donated resources, such as secondhand computers and furniture. As a result, infoshops and other marginal institutions are often short-lived, with minimal income to pay their short-term leases on rented storefronts. Infoshops sometimes combine the function of other alternative venues: vegetarian cafés, independent record stores, head shops, and alternative bookstores. But foremost, infoshops disseminate information, serving as library, archive, distributor, retailer, and hub of an informal and ephemeral network of alternative organizations and activists.\n\nInfoshops sprouted across North America and Europe in the 1990s from the squatted anarchist centers of the prior decade, such as 121 Centre in London. In the early 1990s, a network of infoshops in the United States shared resources and a zine, and thus were more developed as a network than the infoshops of the United Kingdom. Separate from the anarchist tradition, radical presses have long been associated with meeting space functions, such as Giles Calvert's press (1600s) and John Doherty's bookstore (1830s).\n\nSome infoshops reflect the protest subcultures to which its volunteers belong. An Edinburgh infoshop, for example, sold punk records (a genre and subculture that shares the infoshop's anarchist philosophy) and prioritized vegan food, which tempered the group's accessibility. The infoshop was only open and staffed for two afternoons each week and ad hoc events, which limited drop-in socializing. The group made decisions by consensus at open business meetings with regular attendees, a handful of people who ran most of the infoshop. Infoshops in the United States, especially those run by large, unfocused groups, have been known to close for reasons of schisms and in-fighting. Their goals can also appear opaque to outsiders and inarticulate at explaining the purpose of its strategy, vision, and stances.\n\nAnarchists, in pursuit of freedom from dogma, believe that individuals must not be socialized into acceptance of authority or dogma as part of their education. In contrast to traditional schools, anarchist free skools are autonomous, nonhierarchical spaces intended for educational exchange and skillsharing. They do not have admittance criteria or subordinate relations between teacher and student. Free skools follow a loosely structured program that seeks to defy dominant institutions and ideologies under a nonhierarchical division of power and prefigure a more equitable world. Classes are run by volunteers and held in autonomous social centers, community centers, parks, and other public places.\n\nFree skools follow in the anarchist education lineage from Spanish anarchist Francisco Ferrer's Escuela Moderna and resulting modern school movement in the early 1900s, through the predominantly American free school movement of the 1960s. The American anarchist Paul Goodman, who was prominent in this latter movement, advocated for small schools for children to be held in storefronts and to use the city as its classroom.\n\nIn one example, a free skool in Toronto grew from the closure of a countercultural community café with the opening of an anarchist free space. It sought to share ideas about how to create anti-authoritarian social relations through a series of classes. All were invited to propose and attend classes, whose topics included: 1920s love songs, alternative economics, street art, and violence against women, though the longest running classes introduced anarchism and related politics of syndicalism and libertarian socialism. The course instructors served as facilitators, providing texts and encouraging participation, rather than as top-down lecturers. The free space also hosted art events, parties, and conversational forums. Other initiatives were short-lived or nonstarters, such as an anemic lending library and free used goods table. Another free skool in Nottingham found skillshare-oriented classes with more traditional pedagogy more popular than sessions on radical education.\n\nSimilar to free skools, free university projects are run from college campuses most prominently in Europe. Organized by volunteer student collectives, participants in these initiatives experiment with the process of learning and are not designed to replace the traditional university.\n\n\n\nItaly\n\n"}
{"id": "16996799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16996799", "title": "Bureau for the Repression of Communist Activities", "text": "Bureau for the Repression of Communist Activities\n\nThe Bureau for the Repression of Communist Activities (Buró para Represión de las Actividades Comunistas, or BRAC) was the Cuban secret police agency that President Fulgencio Batista maintained in the 1950s, which gained a reputation for brutality in its fight against the 26th of July Movement.\n\nThe bureau was headed by Mariano Faget, who had first gained fame as a Nazi hunter during Batista's first turn at power, from 1940 to 1944, when he was chief of the Office of Investigation of Enemy Activities (\"Oficina de Investigación de Actividades Enemigas\"), a counter-espionage unit that targeted Nazi and Fascist agents. \n\nDevelopment of BRAC was aided and encouraged by the CIA starting in 1956.\n"}
{"id": "22357648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22357648", "title": "Citizens' List", "text": "Citizens' List\n\nThe Citizens' List (, ) is a Luxembourgian political party. It was founded in the run-up to the 2009 Chamber of Deputies election and European election. It ran in two circonscriptions; in Sud, the list was to be headed by Aly Jaerling, then an independent member of the Chamber of Deputies, whilst, in Nord, it was led by Jean Ersfeld, formerly leader of the Free Party of Luxembourg.\n\nThe party stands for increased pension rights, following on from Jaerling's former membership of the (formerly single-issue) Alternative Democratic Reform Party; social justice; and an anti-establishment opposition to the major political parties.\n"}
{"id": "63355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63355", "title": "Columbidae", "text": "Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves constitute the animal family Columbidae and the order Columbiformes, which includes about 42 genera and 310 species. They are stout-bodied birds with short necks, and short slender bills that in some species feature fleshy ceres. They primarily feed on seeds, fruits, and plants. Pigeons and doves are likely the most common birds in the world; the family occurs worldwide, but the greatest variety is in the Indomalaya and Australasia ecozones. \n\nThe distinction between \"doves\" and \"pigeons\" is not consistent. In everyday speech, \"dove\" frequently indicates a pigeon that is white or nearly white; some people use the terms \"dove\" and \"pigeon\" interchangeably. In contrast, in scientific and ornithological practice, \"dove\" tends to be used for smaller species and \"pigeon\" for larger ones, but this is in no way consistently applied. Historically, the common names for these birds involve a great deal of variation between the terms. The species most commonly referred to as \"pigeon\" is the species known by scientists as the rock dove, one subspecies of which, the domestic pigeon, is common in many cities as the feral pigeon.\n\n\"Pigeon\" is a French word that derives from the Latin \"pipio\", for a \"peeping\" chick, while \"dove\" is a Germanic word that refers to the bird's diving flight. The English dialectal word \"culver\" appears to derive from Latin \"columba\".\n\nDoves and pigeons build relatively flimsy nests, often using sticks and other debris, which may be placed on trees, ledges, or the ground, depending on species. They lay one or two eggs at a time, and both parents care for the young, which leave the nest after 7–28 days. Unlike most birds, both sexes of doves and pigeons produce \"crop milk\" to feed to their young, secreted by a sloughing of fluid-filled cells from the lining of the crop. Young doves and pigeons are called \"squabs\".\n\nThe family Columbidae was introduced by the English zoologist William Elford Leach in a guide to the contents of the British Museum published in 1820. Columbidae is the only living family in the order Columbiformes. The sandgrouses (Pteroclididae) were formerly placed here, but were moved to a separate order Pteroclidiformes based on anatomical differences (e.g., they are unable to drink by \"sucking\" or \"pumping\"); they are now considered to be more closely related to shorebirds. Recent phylogenomic studies support the grouping of pigeons and sandgrouse together, along with mesites, forming the sister taxon to Mirandornithes.\n\nThe Columbidae are usually divided into five subfamilies, probably inaccurately. For example, the American ground and quail doves (\"Geotrygon\"), which are usually placed in the Columbinae, seem to be two distinct subfamilies. The order presented here follows Baptista etal. (1997), with some updates.\n\nThe arrangement of genera and naming of subfamilies is in some cases provisional because analyses of different DNA sequences yield results that differ, often radically, in the placement of certain (mainly Indo-Australian) genera. This ambiguity, probably caused by long branch attraction, seems to confirm the first pigeons evolved in the Australasian region, and that the \"Treronidae\" and allied forms (crowned and pheasant pigeons, for example) represent the earliest radiation of the group.\n\nThe family Columbidae previously also contained the family Raphidae, consisting of the extinct Rodrigues solitaire and the dodo. These species are in all likelihood part of the Indo-Australian radiation that produced the three small subfamilies mentioned above, with the fruit doves and pigeons (including the Nicobar pigeon). Therefore, they are here included as a subfamily Raphinae, pending better material evidence of their exact relationships.\n\nExacerbating these issues, columbids are not well represented in the fossil record. No truly primitive forms have been found to date. The genus \"Gerandia\" has been described from Early Miocene deposits in France, but while it was long believed to be a pigeon, it is now considered a sandgrouse. Fragmentary remains of a probably \"ptilinopine\" Early Miocene pigeon were found in the Bannockburn Formation of New Zealand and described as \"Rupephaps\"; \"\"Columbina\" prattae\" from roughly contemporary deposits of Florida is nowadays tentatively separated in \"Arenicolumba\", but its distinction from \"Columbina/Scardafella\" and related genera needs to be more firmly established (e.g. by cladistic analysis). Apart from that, all other fossils belong to extant genera.\n\nTaxonomy based on the work by John H. Boyd, III, a professor of economics.\n\nPigeons and doves exhibit considerable variation in size, ranging in length from , and in weight from to above . The largest species is the crowned pigeon of New Guinea, which is nearly turkey-sized, at a weight of . The smallest is the New World ground dove of the genus \"Columbina\", which is the same size as a house sparrow, weighing as little as . With a total length of more than and weight of almost , the largest arboreal species is the Marquesan imperial pigeon, while the dwarf fruit dove, which may measure as little as , has a marginally smaller total length than any other species from this family.\n\nOverall, the Columbidae tend to have short legs, short bills with a fleshy cere, and small heads on large, compact bodies. In a series of experiments in 1975 by Dr.Mark B. Friedman, using doves, their characteristic head bobbing was shown to be due to their natural desire to keep their vision constant. It was shown yet again in a 1978 experiment by Dr.Barrie J. Frost, in which pigeons were placed on treadmills; it was observed that they did not bob their heads, as their surroundings were constant. The wings are large, and have eleven primary feathers, and low wing loading; pigeons have strong wing muscles (wing muscles comprise 31–44% of their body weight) and are among the strongest fliers of all birds. They are also highly manoeuvrable in flight.\n\nColumbidae have unique body feathers, with the shaft being generally broad, strong, and flattened, tapering to a fine point, abruptly. In general, the aftershaft is absent; however, small ones on some tail and wing feathers may be present . Body feathers have very dense, fluffy bases, are attached loosely into the skin, and drop out easily. Possibly serving as a predator avoidance mechanism, large numbers of feathers come out in the attacker's mouth, if the bird is grabbed by a predator, facilitating the bird's escape.\n\nThe plumage of the family is variable. Granivorous species tend to have dull plumage, with a few exceptions, whereas the frugivorous species have brightly coloured plumage. The \"Ptilinopus\" (fruit doves) are some of the brightest-coloured pigeons, with the three endemic species of Fiji and the Indian Ocean \"Alectroenas\" being the brightest. Pigeons and doves may be sexually monochromatic or dichromatic. In addition to bright colours, pigeons may sport crests or other ornamentation.\n\nLike some other birds, the Columbidae have no gall bladders. Some medieval naturalists concluded they have no bile (gall), which in the medieval theory of the four humours explained the allegedly sweet disposition of doves. In fact, however, they do have gall (as Aristotle had earlier realised), which is secreted directly into the gut.\n\nPigeons and doves are distributed everywhere on Earth, except for the driest areas of the Sahara Desert, Antarctica and its surrounding islands, and the high Arctic. They have colonised most of the world's oceanic islands, reaching eastern Polynesia and the Chatham Islands in the Pacific, Mauritius, the Seychelles and Réunion in the Indian Ocean, and the Azores in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe family has adapted to most of the habitats available on the planet. These species may be arboreal, terrestrial, or semi-terrestrial. Various species also inhabit savannas, grasslands, deserts, temperate woodlands and forests, mangrove forests, and even the barren sands and gravels of atolls.\n\nSome species have large natural ranges. The eared dove ranges across the entirety of South America from Colombia to Tierra del Fuego, the Eurasian collared dove has a massive (if discontinuous) distribution from Britain across Europe, the Middle East, India, Pakistan and China, and the laughing dove across most of sub-Saharan Africa, as well as India, Pakistan, and the Middle East. Other species have tiny, restricted distributions; this is most common in island endemics. The whistling dove is endemic to the tiny Kadavu Island in Fiji, the Caroline ground dove is restricted to two islands, Truk and Pohnpei in the Caroline Islands, and the Grenada dove is restricted to Grenada in the Caribbean. Some continental species also have tiny distributions; for example, the black-banded fruit dove is restricted to a small area of the Arnhem Land of Australia, the Somali pigeon is restricted to a tiny area of northern Somalia, and Moreno's ground dove is restricted to the area around Salta and Tucuman in northern Argentina.\n\nThe largest range of any species is that of the rock dove. This species had a large natural distribution from Britain and Ireland to northern Africa, across Europe, Arabia, Central Asia, India, the Himalayas and up into China and Mongolia. The range of the species increased dramatically upon domestication, as the species went feral in cities around the world. The species is currently resident across most of North America, and has established itself in cities and urban areas in South America, sub-Saharan Africa, Southeast Asia, Japan, Australia, and New Zealand. The species is not the only pigeon to have increased its range due to the actions of man; several other species have become established outside of their natural range after escaping captivity, and other species have increased their natural ranges due to habitat changes caused by human activity.\n\nSeeds and fruit form the major component of the diets of pigeons and doves. In fact, the family can be divided into the seed-eating or granivorous species (subfamily Columbinae) and the fruit-and-mast-eating or frugivorous species (the other four subfamilies). The granivorous species typically feed on seed found on the ground, whereas the frugivorous species tend to feed in trees. There are morphological adaptations that can be used to distinguish between the two groups: granivores tend to have thick walls in their gizzards, intestines, and esophagi whereas the frugivores tend to have thin walls. In addition, fruit-eating species have short intestines whereas those that eat seeds have longer ones. Frugivores are capable of clinging to branches and even hang upside down to reach fruit.\n\nIn addition to fruit and seeds, a number of other food items are taken by many species. Some, particularly the ground doves and quail-doves, eat a large number of prey items such as insects and worms. One species, the atoll fruit dove, is specialised in taking insect and reptile prey. Snails, moths, and other insects are taken by white-crowned pigeons, orange fruit doves, and ruddy ground doves.\n\nMale pigeons are more opportunistic to mate with another female.\n\nWhile many species of pigeons and doves have benefited from human activities and have increased their ranges, many other species have declined in numbers and some have become threatened or even succumbed to extinction. Among the ten species to have become extinct since 1600 (the conventional date for estimating modern extinctions) are two of the most famous extinct species, the dodo and the passenger pigeon.\n\nThe passenger pigeon was exceptional for a number of reasons. In modern times, it is the only pigeon species that was not an island species to have become extinct even though it was once the most numerous species of bird on Earth. Its former numbers are difficult to estimate, but one ornithologist, Alexander Wilson, estimated one flock he observed contained over two billion birds. The decline of the species was abrupt; in 1871, a breeding colony was estimated to contain over a hundred million birds, yet the last individual in the species was dead by 1914. Although habitat loss was a contributing factor, the species is thought to have been massively over-hunted, being used as food for slaves and, later, the poor, in the United States throughout the 19thcentury.\n\nThe dodo, and its extinction, was more typical of the extinctions of pigeons in the past. Like many species that colonise remote islands with few predators, it lost much of its predator avoidance behaviour, along with its ability to fly. The arrival of people, along with a suite of other introduced species such as rats, pigs, and cats, quickly spelled the end for this species and all the other island forms that have become extinct.\n\nAround 59 species of pigeons and doves are threatened with extinction today, about 19% of all species. Most of these are tropical and live on islands. All of the species are threatened by introduced predators, habitat loss, hunting, or a combination of these factors. In some cases, they may be extinct in the wild, as is the Socorro dove of Socorro Island, Mexico, last seen in the wild in 1972, driven to extinction by habitat loss and introduced feral cats. In some areas, a lack of knowledge means the true status of a species is unknown; the Negros fruit dove has not been seen since 1953, and may or may not be extinct, and the Polynesian ground dove is classified as critically endangered, as whether it survives or not on remote islands in the far west of the Pacific Ocean is unknown.\n\nVarious conservation techniques are employed to prevent these extinctions, including laws and regulations to control hunting pressure, the establishment of protected areas to prevent further habitat loss, the establishment of captive populations for reintroduction back into the wild (\"ex situ\" conservation), and the translocation of individuals to suitable habitats to create additional populations.\n\nThe pigeon was used in both World War I and II, notably by the Australian, French, German, American, and UK forces. They were also awarded with various laurels throughout, for their service. On 2 December 1943, three pigeonsWinkie, Tyke, and White Visionwere awarded the first ever Dickin medal, serving with Britain's Royal Air Force, for rescuing an air force crew during World WarII. Thirty-two pigeons have been decorated with the Dickin Medal, citing them for \"brave service\", for war contributions, including Commando, G.I. Joe, Paddy, Royal Blue, and William of Orange.\nCher Ami, a homing pigeon in World War I, was awarded the \"Croix de Guerre\" Medal, by France, with a palm Oak Leaf Cluster for her service in Verdun. Despite having almost lost a leg and being shot in the chest, she managed to travel around twenty-five miles to deliver the message that saved 194 men of the Lost Battalion of the 77th Infantry Division in the Battle of the Argonne, in October 1918. When Cher Ami died, she was mounted and is part of the permanent exhibit at the National Museum of American History of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nA grand ceremony was held in Buckingham Palace to commemorate a platoon of pigeons that braved the battlefields of Normandy to deliver vital plans to Allied forces on the fringes of Germany. Three of the actual birds that received the medals are on show in the London Military Museum so that well-wishers can pay their respects.\n\nThe rock pigeon has been domesticated for hundreds of years. It has been bred into several varieties kept by hobbyists, of which the best known is the homing pigeon or racing homer. Other popular breeds are tumbling pigeons such as the Birmingham roller, and fancy varieties that are bred for certain physical characteristics such as large feathers on the feet or fan-shaped tails. Domesticated rock pigeons are also bred as carrier pigeons, used for thousands of years to carry brief written messages, and release doves used in ceremonies. White doves are also commonly used in magic acts.\n\nIn ancient Mesopotamia, doves were prominent animal symbols of Inanna-Ishtar, the goddess of love, sexuality, and war. Doves are shown on cultic objects associated with Inanna as early as the beginning of the third millennium BC. Lead dove figurines were discovered in the temple of Ishtar at Aššur, dating to the thirteenth century BC, and a painted fresco from Mari, Syria, shows a giant dove emerging from a palm tree in the temple of Ishtar, indicating that the goddess herself was sometimes believed to take the form of a dove. In the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Utnapishtim releases a dove and a raven to find land; the dove merely circles and returns. Only then does Utnapishtim send forth the raven, which does not return, and Utnapishtim concludes the raven has found land.\n\nIn the ancient Levant, doves were used as symbols for the Canaanite mother goddess Asherah. The ancient Greek word for \"dove\" was \"peristerá\", which may be derived from the Semitic phrase \"peraḥ Ištar\", meaning \"bird of Ishtar\". In classical antiquity, doves were sacred to the Greek goddess Aphrodite, who absorbed this association with doves from Inanna-Ishtar. Aphrodite frequently appears with doves in ancient Greek pottery. The temple of Aphrodite Pandemos on the southwest slope of the Athenian Acropolis was decorated with relief sculptures of doves with knotted fillets in their beaks and votive offerings of small, white, marble doves were discovered in the temple of Aphrodite at Daphni. During Aphrodite's main festival, the Aphrodisia, her altars would be purified with the blood of a sacrificed dove. Aphrodite's associations with doves influenced the Roman goddesses Venus and Fortuna, causing them to become associated with doves as well.\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, doves or young pigeons are acceptable burnt offerings for those who cannot afford a more expensive animal. In Genesis, Noah sends a dove out of the ark, but it came back to him because the floodwaters had not receded. Seven days later, he sent it again and it came back with an olive branch in her mouth, indicating the waters had receded enough for an olive tree to grow. \"Dove\" is also a term of endearment in the Song of Songs and elsewhere. In Hebrew, Jonah (יוֹנָה) means dove. The \"sign of Jonas\" in is related to the \"sign of the dove\".\n\nJesus's parents sacrificed doves on his behalf after his circumcision (Luke ). Later, the Holy Spirit descended upon Jesus at his baptism like a dove (Matthew ), and subsequently the \"peace dove\" became a common Christian symbol of the Holy Spirit.\n\nIn Islam, doves and the pigeon family in general are respected and favoured because they are believed to have assisted the final prophet of Islam, Muhammad, in distracting his enemies outside the cave of Thaw'r, in the great Hijra. A pair of pigeons had built a nest and laid eggs at once, and a spider had woven cobwebs, which in the darkness of the night made the fugitives believe that Muhammad could not be in that cave.\nSeveral species of pigeons and doves are used as food; however, all types are edible. Domesticated or hunted pigeons have been used as the source of food since the times of the Ancient Middle East, Ancient Rome, and Medieval Europe. It is familiar meat within Jewish, Arab, Assamese and French cuisines. According to the Tanakh, doves are kosher, and they are the only birds that may be used for a \"korban\". Other kosher birds may be eaten, but not brought as a \"korban\". It is also known in Asian cuisines, such as Chinese and Indonesian.\n\nIn Europe, the wood pigeon is commonly shot as a game bird, while rock pigeons were originally domesticated as a food species, and many breeds were developed for their meat-bearing qualities. The extinction of the passenger pigeon in North America was at least partly due to shooting for use as food. \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" contains recipes for roast pigeon and pigeon pie, a popular, inexpensive food in Victorian industrial Britain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38129957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38129957", "title": "Committee for the Five Northern Korean Provinces", "text": "Committee for the Five Northern Korean Provinces\n\nThe Committee for the Five Northern Korean Provinces (, literally \"The North's Five Provinces Committee\") is a South Korean government body under the Ministry of Security and Public Administration.\n\nEstablished in 1949, the committee is officially responsible for the administration of the five Korean provinces located entirely north of the Military Demarcation Line, as the South Korean government formally claims to be the sole legitimate government of whole of Korea. The President of South Korea appoints governors for each of the five provinces. However, their role is largely symbolic, as the territory is under the effective jurisdiction of North Korea. The committee's main practical function is to provide support to North Korean defectors living in South Korea, including helping with the resettlement of North Koreans and organizing social events for North Koreans. \n\nDespite its name, the committee plays no part in North Korea–South Korea relations; North Korean affairs are handled by the Ministry of Unification. In the event of a North Korean collapse, contingency plans call for a new government body to be set up to administer the North under the leadership of the Unification Minister. In that case, the five governors would have to resign and the committee would be disbanded. \n\nTwo South Korean provinces, Gyeonggi and Gangwon, officially have parts of their territory in North Korea. The South Korean government considers the governors of these two provinces the head of their entire province, including the parts in the North.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14074965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14074965", "title": "Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Application of Biology and Medicine", "text": "Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Application of Biology and Medicine\n\nThe Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Application of Biology and Medicine is an international instrument aiming to prohibit the misuse of innovations in biomedicine and to protect human dignity. The Convention was opened for signature on 4 April 1997 in Oviedo, Spain and is thus otherwise known as the Oviedo Convention. The International treaty is a manifestation of the effort on the part of the Council of Europe to keep pace with developments in the field of biomedicine; it is notably the first multilateral binding instrument entirely devoted to biolaw. The Convention entered into force on 1 December 1999.\n\nThe Convention provides a framework structure to preserve human dignity comprehensively across the field of bioethics. The instrument is shaped around the premise that there is a fundamental connection between human rights and biomedicine. A minimum common standard is created by the Convention and allows states to legislate for a greater degree of protection upon ratification (\"Article 27\"). In addition, judicial protection is conferred on the national courts. Therefore, there is no basis on which an individual can bring an action in relation to the Oviedo Convention alone. The Convention may only be referenced in conjunction with proceedings brought in respect of a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. Absence of any provisions for a judicial procedure from the convention is considered to be a major weakness of the Oviedo Convention.\nThe rate of advancement in biomedicine caused concern to the Council of Europe that as much as development in this field instilled hope for mankind, it also posed a threat. It became the objective of the Council of Europe to set out common general standards for the protection of the dignity of the human person in relation to biomedical sciences. A draft convention was requested by the Steering Committee on Bioethics (CDBI) and drafted by its Working Group in July 1992. The draft convention underwent public consultation in July 1994, adopted by the Committee of Ministers in November 1996, and finally opened for signature on 4 April 1997.\n\n35 states have signed the ‘’’Oviedo Convention’\" since it was opened for signature in 1997, however only 29 of these states have signed and ratified the convention. This means that only 29 states have implemented the principles of the instrument into their national law. Furthermore, 6 of those ratifying states have reservations limiting the extent to which they are bound to certain provisions. Notably, the UK and Germany have neither signed nor ratified the convention. The UK considered the convention too restrictive, whereas Germany thought it too permissive.\n\nThe preamble to the Oviedo Convention makes clear that its intention is for developments in biomedicine to benefit future generations and all of humanity. The convention sets out the legal framework, which will ensure the protection of the dignity and identity of the human being. Intended as a supplementary instrument, the convention will be read in conjunction with other human rights protections namely: The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), the European Social Charter.\n\nThe general provisions of the Oviedo Convention outline the object and purpose of the instrument. The aim is to secure the dignity of human beings within the field of biomedicine. Several principles are adopted in order to achieve this goal. Embodied in the first chapter to the convention, the principles relate to the primacy of the human being, equitable access to healthcare (equitable access to healthcare), and professional standards.\n\nThe issue of consent is pivotal to the Convention because of the relationship it has to individual autonomy. Medical intervention carried out without consent is a general prohibition within \"Article 5\". Furthermore, consent must be free and fully informed. Free and informed consent is based on objective information. Protection is afforded to those not able to consent and provision is made for emergency situations. Specific rules must be observed where any medical intervention is carried out in any situation where a person is not able to give free and informed consent.\n\nThis issue is closely related to the right to privacy in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The scope of the right encompasses an individual’s entitlement not to know as well as the right to know information regarding their health. Interests of the patient, a third party, or society may lead to a restriction of either facet of the right.\n\nThe Oviedo Convention incorporates provisions to address concerns relating to research into the human genome. Focus is honed on genetic testing, the storage of genetic data and modification of the human genome. Genetic testing as a tool for discrimination is prohibited under \"Article 11\", while \"Article 12\" allows genetic testing only for health or for scientific research linked to health purposes. The overarching theme is that genetic testing is reserved for health-related purposes only. Similarly, modification of the human genome, for reasons other than health-related is generally prohibited under \"Article 13\" of the Convention.\n\nThe freedom of scientific research is embodied in \"Chapter V\". However, precedence is afforded to the protection of human dignity and other fundamental freedoms. Therefore, the freedom of research is qualified (\"Article 15\"). Research carried out on human beings is under strict controls set forth by the convention (\"Article 16\"). The general rules on consent stipulated in \"Chapter II\" must be observed in the context of research. In addition, the creation of embryos in vitro for the purposes of scientific research is expressly prohibited (\"Article 18\"). \nThe Convention provides the general rule that living donors for organ transplants are only to be utilised if there is no availability of organs from a deceased person. Any removed parts of the body must be disposed of respectfully in accordance with the wishes of the individual. In addition, there is to be no financial gain arising from the human body or its parts, however adequate compensation for expenses incurred for a medical procedure is not prohibited. The rules relating to consent laid out in \"Chapter II\" of the Convention also apply in the context of organ transplantation.\n\nIn accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, any individual who has suffered damage should have access to fair compensation (\"Article 24\"). Appropriate judicial protection is required to be put in place to ensure there is no infringement of the principles contained in the Convention. Proportionate sanctions will be imposed for non-compliance in accordance with \"Article 25\".\n\nThe Oviedo Convention reflects a minimum harmonisation instrument. Therefore, parties to the convention have jurisdiction to provide a greater degree of protection than that offered by the convention. However, they cannot offer lesser protection.\n\nQuestions of interpretation may be referred to the European Court of Human Rights for an advisory opinion to be issued. Individuals are unable to bring an action on the basis of violation of the Oviedo Convention alone, but may reference the provisions in proceedings relating to the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nA reservation may be made with respect to a particular provision of the convention (\"Article 36\"). Six states have reservations regarding particular provisions:\n\nAny signatory can denounce the convention by means of notification to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n\nDeliberate cloning, to create genetically identical human beings, is contrary to human dignity and constitutes a misuse of biology and medicine. It is therefore prohibited under this protocol.\n\nThe protocol stipulates that, insofar as is possible, equitable access to transplantation services should be ensured. In addition, any transplantation should be carried out with respect for rights and freedoms of donors, potential donors, and recipients of organs and tissues.\n\nIn the context of biomedical research, the protocol aims to ensure protection for dignity and identity of all human beings without discrimination. The Protocol recognises that research can contribute to saving and improving human life but it can also run contrary to the fundamental principles of dignity and other rights. Where this may be the case the research should not be carried out.\n\nThe protocol responds to the concerns regarding possible improper use of genetic testing and aims to protect the dignity and identity of all human beings within this sphere. Through restricting use of genetic testing to health purposes only the convention aims to achieve its object and purpose. Genetic Testing is also permitted for scientific research, but its regulation is not included in this Protocol. It also establishes the need of free and informed consent and genetic counselling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19519245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19519245", "title": "Corruption in China", "text": "Corruption in China\n\nCorruption in China post-1949 refers to the abuse of political power for private ends typically by members of the Chinese Communist Party, who hold the majority of power in the People's Republic of China. In the reform era corruption has been attributed to \"organizational involution\" caused by the market liberalization reforms initiated by Deng Xiaoping. Like other socialist economies that have undertaken economic reforms, such as post-Soviet Eastern Europe and Central Asia, reform-era China has experienced increasing levels of corruption.\n\nCadre corruption in China has been subject to significant media attention since Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping announced his Anti-corruption campaign following the 18th National Congress which was held in November 2012. \n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 77th place out of 180 countries. Means of corruption include graft, bribery, embezzlement, backdoor deals, nepotism, patronage, and statistical falsification.\n\nPublic surveys on the mainland since the late 1980s have shown that it is among the top concerns of the general public. According to Yan Sun, Associate Professor of Political Science at the City University of New York, it was cadre corruption, rather than a demand for democracy as such, that lay at the root of the social dissatisfaction that led to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Corruption undermines the legitimacy of the CPC, adds to economic inequality, undermines the environment, and fuels social unrest.\n\nSince the June 4 incident, corruption has not slowed down as a result of greater economic freedom, but instead has grown more entrenched and severe in its character and scope. Business deals often involve corruption. In popular perception, there are more dishonest CPC officials than honest ones, a reversal of the views held in the first decade of reform of the 1980s. China specialist Minxin Pei argues that failure to contain widespread corruption is among the most serious threats to China's future economic and political stability. Bribery, kickbacks, theft, and waste of public funds costs at least three percent of GDP, he estimates.\n\nMany high ranking government and military officials have been found guilty of corruption since Xi came to power in 2012. \n\nThe spread of corruption in traditional China is often connected to the Confucian concept of \"renzhi\" () as opposed to the legalist \"rule of law\" (). Profit was despised as preoccupation of the base people, while the true Confucians were supposed to be guided in their actions by the moral principle of justice (). Thus, all relations were based solely on mutual trust and propriety. As a matter of course, this kind of moral uprightness could be developed only among a minority. The famous attempt of Wang Anshi to institutionalize the monetary relations of the state, thus reducing corruption, were met with sharp criticism by the Confucian elite. As a result, corruption continued to be widespread both in the court (Wei Zhongxian, Heshen) and among the local elites, and became one of the targets for criticism in the novel \"Jin Ping Mei\". Another kind of corruption came about in Tang China, developed in connection with the imperial examination system.\n\nIn the late Ming dynasty, robust international trade brought an influx of silver into China, enriching merchants and becoming a target of government officials. In the early 1600s, literary works like \"The Book of Swindles\" created typologies of fraud, including categories such as \"Government Underlings\" and \"Corruption in Education.\"\n\nThe widespread corruption of the Kuomintang, the Chinese Nationalist Party, is often credited as being an important component in the defeat of the KMT by the Communist People's Liberation Army. Though the Nationalist Army was initially better equipped and had superior numbers, the KMT's rampant corruption damaged its popularity, limited its support base, and helped the communists in their propaganda war.\n\nGetting high quality, reliable, and standardised survey data on the severity of corruption in the PRC is enormously difficult. However, a variety of sources can still be tapped, which \"present a sobering picture,\" according to Minxin Pei, an academic with expertise on Chinese affairs.\n\nOfficial deviance and corruption have taken place at both the individual and unit level since the founding of the PRC. Initially the practices had much to do with the \"danwei\" () system, an outgrowth of communist wartime organs. In the PRC the reforms of Deng Xiaoping were much criticized for making corruption the price of economic development. Corruption during Mao's reign also existed, however.\n\nEmergence of the private sector inside the state economy in post-Mao China has tempted CPC members to misuse their power in government posts; the powerful economic levers in the hands of the elite has propelled the sons of some party officials to the most profitable positions. For this, the CPC has been called the \"princelings' party\" (), a reference to nepotistic corruption in some periods of Imperial China. The relatives of several prominent political leaders are reported to have generated large personal wealth in business, including relatives of former Premier Wen Jiabao, Current CPC general secretary Xi Jinping, and former Chongqing party secretary Bo Xilai. Attacking corruption in the Party was one of the forces behind the Tiananmen protests of 1989.\n\nThe politically unchallenged regime in China creates opportunities for cadres to exploit and control the rapid growth of economic opportunities; and while incentives to corruption grow, effective countervailing forces are absent.\n\nBoth structural and non-structural corruption has been prevalent in China. Non-structural corruption exists around the world, and refers to all activities that can be clearly defined as \"illegal\" or \"criminal,\" mainly including different forms of graft: embezzlement, extortion, bribery etc. Structural corruption arises from particular economic and political structures; this form is difficult to root out without a change of the broader system.\n\nWeak state institutions are blamed for worsening corruption in reform-era China. New Left scholars on China criticise the government for apparent \"blind faith\" in the market, and especially for its erosion of authority and loss of control of local agencies and agents since 1992. Others also see strong links between institutional decline and rising corruption. Corruption in China results from the Party-State's inability to maintain a disciplined and effective administrative corps, according to Lü Xiaobo, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Barnard College. The Chinese reform-era state has also been an enabling factor, since state agencies have been granted regulatory power without institutional constraints, allowing them to tap into new opportunities to seek profits from the rapid growth in businesses and the economy. This takes place at both the departmental and individual level. Corruption here is part of the dilemma faced by any reforming socialist state, where the state needs to play an active role in creating and regulating markets, while at the same time its own intervention places extra burdens on administrative budgets. Instead of being able to reduce the size of its bureaucratic machinery (and therefore opportunities for corruption), it is instead pressed to expand further. Officials then cash in on the regulatory power by \"seeking rents.\"\n\nIn 2010, in a rare move due to its perceived impact on stability, Li Jinhua, vice-chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference (NCCPPCC) and former long-serving auditor general of the National Audit Office, fired a warning shot in the \"People's Daily\", calling for better legal structures and greater supervision over the business dealings of officials and their children. He said the rapidly growing wealth of Communist officials’ children and family members \"is what the public is most dissatisfied about\".\n\nAccording to a January, 2014 investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists more than a dozen family members of China's top political and military leaders are linked to offshore companies based in the British Virgin Islands. The report shows that the brother-in-law of China's current Paramount leader, Xi Jinping and the son-in-law of former premier Wen Jiabao are amongst those making use of offshore financial havens to avoid tax and transfer money overseas.\n\nAmong the targets of the anti-corruption campaign since 2012 are Yao Gang, Vice-Chairman at the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), China’s top security regulator. He was investigated by the Communist Party of China's anti-graft agency in November 2015, after a stock market rout rocked global markets.\n\nOpinion surveys of Party officials and Chinese citizens over recent years set identify corruption as one of the public's top concerns. Every year researchers at the Central Party School, the CPC organ that trains senior and midlevel officials, survey over 100 officials at the school. Between 1999 and 2004 respondents ranked corruption as either the most serious or second most serious social problem. Similarly, in late 2006 the State Council’s Development Research Center asked 4,586 business executives (87 percent in nonstate firms) to rate their local officials in terms of integrity. Almost one-quarter said that their local officials were “bad”; 12 percent said they were “very bad.”\n\nIn a commercial environment, corruption may be prevalent because many employees are not loyal to their employers, seeing themselves as \"free-agent entrepreneurs\" first and foremost. They use their employers as a way to make money, both for themselves and for their \"guanxi social-circle network.\" The imperative of maintaining this social circle of benefits is seen as a primary goal for many involved in corruption.\n\nOfficial corruptions are among the populace's greatest gripes against the regime. One folk saying vividly illustrates how the public sees the issue, according to Yan Sun: \"If the Party executes every official for corruption, it will overdo a little; but if the Party executes every other official for corruption, it cannot go wrong.\" In contemporary China, bribe taking has become so entrenched that one party secretary in a poor county received repeated death threats for rejecting over 600,000 Renminbi in bribes during his tenure. In 1994, in another area officially designated \"impoverished,\" a delegation of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization arrived for a conference on development, but upon seeing rows of imported luxury cars outside the conference site asked the local officials \"Are you really poor?\" A rare online opinion poll in 2010 by the \"People’s Daily\" found that 91% of respondents believe all rich families in China have political backgrounds.\n\nThe high corruption rates in China has been blamed by many as a result of the political system in which public service officials are not elected by the general public.\n\nBroadly defined, three types of corruption are common in China: graft, rent-seeking, and prebendalism.\n\nGraft is the most common and refers to bribery, illicit kickbacks, embezzlement, and theft of public funds. Graft involves something of value given to, and accepted by, public officials for dishonest or illegal purposes. It includes officials spending fraudulently or using public funds for their own benefit.\n\nRent-seeking refers to all forms of corrupt behaviour by people with monopolistic power. Public officials, through granting a license or monopoly to their clients, get \"rents\"—additional earnings as a result of a restricted market. Rent-seeking happens when officials grant rents to those in their favor. This is akin to cronyism. In the Chinese case, public officials are both rent-generators and rent-seekers, both making rent opportunities for others and seeking such opportunities to benefit themselves. This may include profiteering by officials or official firms, extortion in the form of illicit impositions, fees, and other charges.\n\nPrebendalism refers to when incumbents of public office get privileges and perquisites through that office. Controlling an office entitles the holder to rents or payments for real or fake activities, and organizations are turned from places of work into \"resource banks\" where individuals and groups pursue their own interests. Prebendal corruption doesn't necessarily need to be about monetary gain, but may include usurpation of official privilege, backdoor deals, clientelism, cronyism, nepotism.\n\nCorruption in the PRC has developed in two major ways. In the first mode, corruption is in the form of ostensibly legal official expenditure, but is actually wasteful and directed toward private benefits. For example, the increasing number of local governments building massive administrative office buildings that resemble luxurious mansions. At the same time, many corrupt local officials have turned their jurisdictions into virtual “mafia states,” where they collude with criminal elements and unsavory businessmen in illegal activities.\n\nWhile the state and its bureaucrats are major players in the reform-era economy, new interests and concentrations of economic have been created, without legitimate channels between administrators and entrepreneurs. A lack of regulation and supervision has meant these roles are not clearly demarcated (Lü Xiaobo in his text titles one section \"From Apparatchiks to Entrepreneurchiks\"). Illicit \"guandao\" enterprises formed by networks of bureaucrats and entrepreneurs are allowed to grow, operating behind a facade of a government agency or state-owned enterprise, in a realm neither fully public nor private. More recently, Ben Hillman has shown how official corruption is facilitated by intrastate patronage networks. According to Hillman, patronage networks 'grease the wheels' of a dysfunctional bureaucracy while simultaneously extracting spoils for the private benefit of their members. Patronage networks also protect transgressors from intrusion by the Party-state's disciplinary agencies. Hillman's study of patronage networks helps to explain how corruption and economic development have been able to coexist in China.\n\nThe PLA has also become a major economic player, and participant in large- and small-scale corruption at the same time. Inconsistent tax policy, and a politicised and poorly organised banking system, create ample opportunities for favouritism, kickbacks, and \"outright theft,\" according to Michael Johnston, Professor of Political Science at Colgate University in Hamilton, New York.\n\nCorruption has also taken the form of collusion between CPC officials and criminal gangs. Often hidden inside legitimate businesses, gangs had infiltrated public offices and worked closely with the police. \"The Telegraph\" quoted an employee of a state company saying: \"In fact, the police stations in Chongqing were actually the centre of the prostitution, gambling and drugs rackets. They would detain gangsters from time to time, and sometimes send them to prison, but the gangsters described it as going away for a holiday. The police and the mafia were buddies.\" In some cases, innocents were hacked to death and dismembered by roaming gangs whose presence was allowed by regime officials, according to the Telegraph.\n\nChina's housing boom, and the shift of central government policy towards social housing, are providing officials more ways to siphon off properties for personal gain. The \"Financial Times\" cites a number of public scandals involving local officials in 2010: for example, in province, eastern China, a complex of 3,500 apartments designated as social housing in Rizhao, Shandong, was sold to local officials at prices 30-50 per cent below market values. It said in Meixian, Sha’anxi, around 80 per cent of the city’s first social housing development, called Urban Beautiful Scenery, went to local officials. In Xinzhou, Shanxi, a new complex of 1,578 apartments on the local government’s list of designated social housing was almost entirely reserved for local officials, many were 'flipped' for tidy profits even before construction was completed. Jones Lang LaSalle said that transparency about the plans for affordable housing was severely lacking.\n\nWhether the effects of corruption in China are solely positive or negative is a subject of hot debate. Corruption favors the most connected and unscrupulous, rather than the efficient, and also creates entry barriers in the market for those without such connections. Favors are sought for inefficient subsidies, monopoly benefits, or regulatory oversight, rather than productive activity. Bribes also lead to a misdirection of resources into wasteful or poor-quality projects. Further, since corrupt payments are usually done in secrecy, they are more likely to be used in the same way, driving the proceeds of illegal transactions into foreign bank accounts. Such capital flight costs national growth. Centralised corruption also carries with it the same defects, according to Yan. Rent seeking, for example, is costly to growth because it prevents innovation. Rent seeking activities are also self-sustaining, since such activity makes it seem more attractive compared to productive activity. Corruption is never a better option to honest public policy, Yan Sun argues, and it distorts and retards development.\n\nOthers, including local officials, play down the negative impacts of corruption, and local cadres frown on anticorruption efforts for three reasons: a preoccupation with rooting out corruption may lead to cautiousness about new practices; corruption may act as a \"lubricant\" to \"loosen up\" the bureaucracy and facilitate commercial exchanges; and thirdly, corruption is a necessary trade-off and inevitable part of the process of reform and opening up. They argue that the destructiveness of corruption in the Chinese context helps transfer or reallocate power from officials, perhaps even enabling the rise of a \"new system\" and acting as a driving force for reform.\n\nNevertheless, the deleterious effects of corruption were documented in detail in Minxin Pei's report. The amount of money stolen through corruption scandals has risen exponentially since the 1980s, and corruption in China is now more concentrated in the sectors the state is heavily involved with. These include infrastructure projects, real estate, government procurement, and financial services. The lack of a competitive political process means these are high-risk areas for fraud, theft, and bribery; Pei estimates the cost of corruption could be up to $86 billion per year.\n\nCorruption in China also harms Western business interests, in particular foreign investors. They risk human rights, environmental, and financial liabilities, at the same time squaring off against rivals who engage in illegal practices to win business.\n\nLong term, corruption has potentially \"explosive consequences,\" including widening income inequalities within cities and between city and countryside, and creating a new, highly visible class of \"socialist millionaires,\" which further fuels resentment from the citizenry.\n\nOrdinary Chinese are many times, the victims in official corruption, as in the case of Hewan village in Jiangsu province, where 200 thugs were hired to attack local farmers and force them off their land so Party bosses could build a petrochemical plant. Sun Xiaojun, the party chief of Hewan village, was later arrested. One farmer died. Officials themselves are increasingly victims of official corruption when they target each other out of jealousy, hunger for promotion: there have been high-profile cases of mainland bureaucrats employing hit men or launching acid attacks on rivals. In August 2009, a former director of the Communications Bureau in Hegang, Heilongjiang, who hired hitmen to kill his successor, supposedly because of the latter's ingratitude, was given the death penalty.\n\nThe CPC has tried a variety of anti-corruption measures, constructing a variety of laws and agencies in an attempt to stamp out corruption, but almost none have been proven to be even mildly effective.\n\nIn 2004, the CPC devised strict regulations on officials assuming posts in business and enterprise. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and the Central Organization Department issued a joint circular instructing Party committees, governments and related departments at all levels not to give approval for Party and government officials to take up concurrent posts in enterprises. Law 395 related to the illicit enrichment of public officials was also enacted.\n\nIn 2007 Chinese authorities established a National Corruption Prevention Bureau, focused primarily on gathering information and intra-agency coordination. Unlike the Ministry of Supervision, Procuratorate, or CCDI, the NCPB was focused on \"implementing preventive measures, monitoring the transfer of assets across organizations, facilitating and promoting information sharing between agencies, and policing corrupt practices within the nongovernmental sphere, including private enterprises, social organizations and NGOs.\" The lack of independence of the NCPB however meant that its impact on actual corruption was limited.\n\nThe Anti-Unfair Competition Law prohibits commercial bribery punishable by economic and administrative sanctions. It is prohibited to give or receive bribes in the course of selling or purchasing goods. In case of misconduct, companies are fined in between 10.000 RMB and 200.000 RMB The Criminal Law of China prohibits giving and receiving property to obtain an undue benefit, with penalties including fines, confiscation of property, imprisonment or death.\nSuch measures are largely ineffective, however, due to the insufficient enforcement of the relevant laws. Further, because the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection largely operates in secrecy, it is unclear to researchers how allegedly corrupt officials are disciplined and punished. The odds for a corrupt official to end up in prison are less than three percent, making corruption a high-return, low risk activity. This leniency of punishment has been one of the main reasons corruption is such a serious problem in China.\n\nWhile corruption has grown in scope and complexity, anti-corruption policies, on the other hand, have not changed much. Communist-style mass campaigns with anti-corruption slogans, moral exhortations, and prominently displayed miscreants, are still a key part of official policy, much as they were in the 1950s.\n\nIn 2009, according to internal Party reports, there were 106,000 officials found guilty of corruption, an increase of 2.5 percent on the previous year. The number of officials caught embezzling more than one million RMB (US$146,000) went up by 19 percent over the year. With no independent oversight like NGOs or free media, corruption has flourished.\n\nThese efforts are punctuated by an occasional harsh prison term for major offenders, or even executions. But rules and values for business and bureaucratic conduct are in flux, sometimes contradictory, and “deeply politicized.” In many countries systematic anti-corruption measures include independent trade and professional associations, which help limit corruption by promulgating codes of ethics and imposing quick penalties, watchdog groups like NGOs, and a free media. In China, these measures do not exist as a result of the CPC’s means of rule.\n\nThus, while CPC disciplinary organs and prosecutorial agencies produce impressive statistics on corruption complaints received from the public, few citizens or observers believe corruption is being systematically addressed.\n\nThere are also limits to how far anti-corruption measures will go. For example, when Hu Jintao's son was implicated in a corruption investigation in Namibia, Chinese Internet portals and Party-controlled media were ordered not to report on it.\n\nAt the same time, local leaders engage in \"corruption protectionism,\" as coined by the head of the Hunan provincial Party Discipline Inspection Commission; apparatchiks thwart corruption investigations against the staff of their own agencies, allowing them to escape punishment. In some cases this has impelled high-ranking officials to form special investigative groups with approval from the central government to avoid local resistance and enforce cooperation. However, since in China vertical and horizontal leadership structures often run at odds with one another, CPC anti-corruption agencies find it hard to investigate graft at the lower levels. The goal of effectively controlling corruption thus remains elusive to the ruling Party, and only a propaganda tool to mislead the Chinese public on its false promises.\n\nProminent anti-corruption cases in China are often an outgrowth of factional struggles for power in the CPC, as opponents use the \"war of corruption\" as a weapon against rivals in the Party or corporate world. Often, too, the central leadership's goal in cracking down on corruption is to send a message to those who step over some \"unknown acceptable level of graft\" or too obviously flaunt its benefits. Another reason is to show an angry public that the Party is doing something about the problem.\n\nIn many such cases, the origins of anti-corruption measures are a mystery. When Chen Liangyu was ousted, analysts said it was because he lost a power struggle with leaders in Beijing. Chen was Shanghai's party secretary and member of the powerful Politburo. In 2010, a re-release of the Communist Party of China 52 code of ethics was published.\n\nProminent individuals implicated in corruption in China include: Wang Shouxin, Yang Bin, Chen Liangyu, Qiu Xiaohua (the nation's chief statistician, who was fired and arrested in connection with a pension-fund scandal), Zheng Xiaoyu, Lai Changxing, Lan Fu, Xiao Zuoxin, Ye Zheyun, Chen Xitong, Tian Fengshan, Zhu Junyi, Zhang Shuguang (a railways official, managed to steal $2.8 billion and move it overseas).\n\nAuthors who have written about corruption in China include: Liu Binyan, Robert Chua, Wang Yao, Li Zhi, Lü Gengsong, Xi Jinping, Jiang Weiping, Gong Ting.\n\nThe strict controls placed on the media by the Chinese government limit the discovery and reporting of corruption in China. Nevertheless, there have been cases of whistleblowers publicising corruption in China, such as Guo Wengui.\n\nSee Media of the People's Republic of China for a discussion on the media in China, including topics such as censorship and controls.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95353", "title": "Crown (headgear)", "text": "Crown (headgear)\n\nA crown is a traditional symbolic form of headwear, or hat, worn by a monarch or by a deity, for whom the crown traditionally represents power, legitimacy, victory, triumph, honor, and glory, as well as immortality, righteousness, and resurrection. In art, the crown may be shown being offered to those on Earth by angels. Apart from the traditional form, crowns also may be in the form of a wreath and be made of flowers, oak leaves, or thorns and be worn by others, representing what the coronation part aims to symbolize with the specific crown. In religious art, a crown of stars is used similarly to a halo. Crowns worn by rulers often contain jewels.\n\nA crown is often an emblem of the monarchy, a monarch's government, or items endorsed by it. The word itself is used, particularly in Commonwealth countries, as an abstract name for the monarchy itself, as distinct from the individual who inhabits it (see The Crown). A specific type of crown (or coronet for lower ranks of peerage) is employed in heraldry under strict rules. Indeed, some monarchies never had a physical crown, just a heraldic representation, as in the constitutional kingdom of Belgium, where no coronation ever took place; the royal installation is done by a solemn oath in parliament, wearing a military uniform: the King is not acknowledged as by divine right, but assumes the only hereditary public office in the service of the law; so he in turn will swear in all members of \"his\" federal government.\n\n\nThree distinct categories of crowns exist in those monarchies that use crowns or state regalia.\n\n\nCrowns or similar headgear, as worn by nobility and other high-ranking people below the ruler, is in English often called a coronet; However, in many languages, this distinction is not made and the same word is used for both types of headgear (e.g., French \"couronne\", German \"Krone\", Dutch \"kroon\"). In some of these languages the term \"rank crown\" (rangkroon, etc.) refers to the way these crowns may be ranked according to hierarchical status.\n\nIn Classical antiquity, the crown (\"corona\") that was sometimes awarded to people other than rulers, such as triumphal military generals or athletes, was actually a wreath or chaplet, or ribbon-like diadem.\n\nThe precursor to the crown was the browband called the diadem, which had been worn by the Achaemenid Persian emperors. It was adopted by Constantine I and was worn by all subsequent rulers of the later Roman Empire.\n\nNumerous crowns of various forms were used in antiquity, such as the Hedjet, Deshret, Pschent (double crown) and Khepresh of Pharaonic Egypt. The Pharaohs of Egypt also wore the diadem, which was associated with solar cults, an association which was not completely lost, as it was later revived under the Roman Emperor Augustus. By the time of the Pharaoh Amenophis III (r.1390-1352c) wearing a diadem clearly became a symbol of royalty.\n\nThe \"corona radiata\", the \"radiant crown\" known best on the Statue of Liberty, and perhaps worn by the Helios that was the Colossus of Rhodes, was worn by Roman emperors as part of the cult of Sol Invictus prior to the Roman Empire's conversion to Christianity. It was referred to as \"the chaplet studded with sunbeams” by Lucian, about 180 AD.\n\nPerhaps the oldest extant Christian crown in Europe is the Iron Crown of Lombardy, of Roman and Longobard antiquity, later again used to crown modern Kings of Napoleonic and Austrian Italy, and to represent united Italy after 1860.\n\nIn the Christian tradition of European cultures, where ecclesiastical sanction authenticates monarchic power, when a new monarch ascends the throne, the crown is placed on the new monarch's head by a religious official in a coronation ceremony. Some, though not all, early Holy Roman Emperors travelled to Rome at some point in their careers to be crowned by the pope. Napoleon, according to legend, surprised Pius VII when he reached out and crowned himself, although in reality this order of ceremony had been pre-arranged (see coronation).\n\nToday, only the British Monarchy and Tongan Monarchy, with their anointed and crowned monarchs, continue this tradition, although many monarchies retain a crown as a national symbol. The French Crown Jewels were sold in 1885 on the orders of the Third French Republic, with only a token number, their precious stones replaced by glass, retained for historic reasons and displayed in the Louvre. The Spanish Crown Jewels were destroyed in a major fire in the 18th century while the so-called \"Irish Crown Jewels\" (actually merely the British Sovereign's insignia of the Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick) were stolen from Dublin Castle in 1907, just before the investiture of Bernard Edward Barnaby FitzPatrick, 2nd Baron Castletown.\n\nSpecial headgear to designate rulers dates back to pre-history, and is found in many separate civilizations around the globe. Commonly, rare and precious materials are incorporated into the crown, but that is only essential for the notion of crown jewels. Gold and precious jewels are common in western and oriental crowns. In the Native American civilizations of the Pre-Columbian New World, rare feathers, such as that of the quetzal, often decorated crowns; so too in Polynesia (e.g. Hawaii).\n\nCoronation ceremonies are often combined with other rituals, such as enthronement (the throne is as much a symbol of monarchy as the crown) and anointing (again, a religious sanction, the only defining act in the Biblical tradition of Israel).\n\nIn other cultures, no crown is used in the equivalent of coronation, but the head may still be otherwise symbolically adorned; for example, with a royal \"tikka\" in the Hindu tradition of India.\n\nBecause one or more crowns, alone or as part of a more elaborate design, often appear on coins, several monetary denominations came to be known as 'a crown' (see Crown (British coin)) or the equivalent word in the local language, such as \"krone\". This persists in the case of the national currencies of the Scandinavian countries and the Czech Republic. The generic term \"crown sized\" is frequently used for any coin roughly the size of an American silver dollar.\n"}
{"id": "3238802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238802", "title": "Department of Business, Enterprise and Innovation", "text": "Department of Business, Enterprise and Innovation\n\nThe Department of Business, Enterprise and Innovation () is a department of the Government of Ireland. It is led by the Minister for Business, Enterprise and Innovation who is assisted by two Ministers of State.\n\n\nThe official headquarters and ministerial offices of the department are at 23 Kildare Street, Dublin 2. It is one of the most important economic departments in the Irish Government, responsible for the implementation of policy in five key areas:\n\nA large element of the work of the Department arises from Ireland's membership of a number of international organisations, in particular the European Union and the World Trade Organization. The Department plays an active role in the development of EU and WTO policies, particularly to ensure that Ireland's interests are protected. The Department is organised into five divisions. They are:\n\nThe department oversees a large number of bodies and agencies. In July 2009 the Special Group on Public Service Numbers and Expenditure Programmes proposed merging the Competition Authority and the National Consumer Agency. However, this process remains at an early stage. Until 2010, the Department was responsible for FÁS, which had its responsibilities divided up between two bodies in 2013. Bodies and agencies associated with the Department include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8309", "title": "Duesberg hypothesis", "text": "Duesberg hypothesis\n\nThe Duesberg hypothesis is the claim, associated with University of California, Berkeley professor Peter Duesberg, that various noninfectious factors such as but not limited to, recreational and pharmaceutical drug use are the cause of AIDS, and that HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is merely a harmless passenger virus. The scientific consensus is that the Duesberg hypothesis is incorrect and that HIV is the cause of AIDS. The most prominent supporters of this hypothesis are Duesberg himself, biochemist vitamin proponent David Rasnick, and journalist Celia Farber. The scientific community contends that Duesberg's arguments are the result of cherry-picking predominantly outdated scientific data and selectively ignoring evidence in favor of HIV's role in AIDS.\n\nDuesberg argues that there is a statistical correlation between trends in recreational drug use and trends in AIDS cases. He argues that the epidemic of AIDS cases in the 1980s corresponds to a supposed epidemic of recreational drug use in the United States and Europe during the same time frame.\n\nThese claims are not supported by epidemiologic data. The average yearly increase in opioid-related deaths from 1990 to 2002 was nearly three times the yearly increase from 1979–90, with the greatest increase in 2000–02, yet AIDS cases and deaths fell dramatically during the mid-to-late-1990s. Duesberg's claim that recreational drug use, rather than HIV, was the cause of AIDS has been specifically examined and found to be false. Cohort studies have found that only HIV-positive drug users develop opportunistic infections; HIV-negative drug users do not develop such infections, indicating that HIV rather than drug use is the cause of AIDS.\n\nDuesberg has also argued that nitrite inhalants were the cause of the epidemic of Kaposi sarcoma (KS) in gay men. However, this argument has been described as an example of the fallacy of a statistical confounding effect; it is now known that a herpesvirus, potentiated by HIV, is responsible for AIDS-associated KS.\n\nMoreover, in addition to recreational drugs, Duesberg argues that anti-HIV drugs such as zidovudine (AZT) can cause AIDS. Duesberg's claim that antiviral medication causes AIDS is regarded as disproven by the scientific community. Placebo-controlled studies have found that AZT as a single agent produces modest and short-lived improvements in survival and delays the development of opportunistic infections; it certainly did not cause AIDS, which develops in both treated and untreated study patients. With the subsequent development of protease inhibitors and highly active antiretroviral therapy, numerous studies have documented the fact that anti-HIV drugs prevent the development of AIDS and substantially prolong survival, further disproving the claim that these drugs \"cause\" AIDS.\n\nSeveral studies have specifically addressed Duesberg's claim that recreational drug abuse or sexual promiscuity were responsible for the manifestations of AIDS. An early study of his claims, published in \"Nature\" in 1993, found Duesberg's drug abuse-AIDS hypothesis to have \"no basis in fact.\"\n\nA large prospective study followed a group of 715 homosexual men in the Vancouver, Canada, area; approximately half were HIV-seropositive or became so during the follow-up period, and the remainder were HIV-seronegative. After more than 8 years of follow-up, despite similar rates of drug use, sexual contact, and other supposed risk factors in both groups, only the HIV-positive group suffered from opportunistic infections. Similarly, CD4 counts dropped in the patients who were HIV-infected, but remained stable in the HIV-negative patients, despite similar rates of risk behavior. The authors concluded that \"the risk-AIDS hypothesis ... is clearly rejected by our data,\" and that \"the evidence supports the hypothesis that HIV-1 has an integral role in the CD4 depletion and progressive immune dysfunction that characterise AIDS.\"\n\nSimilarly, the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS) and the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS)—which between them observed more than 8,000 Americans—demonstrated that \"the presence of HIV infection is the only factor that is strongly and consistently associated with the conditions that define AIDS.\" A 2008 study found that recreational drug use (including cannabis, cocaine, poppers, and amphetamines) had no effect on CD4 or CD8 T-cell counts, providing further evidence against a role of recreational drugs as a cause of AIDS.\n\nDuesberg argued in 1989 that a significant number of AIDS victims had died without proof of HIV infection. However, with the use of modern culture techniques and polymerase chain reaction testing, HIV can be demonstrated in virtually all patients with AIDS. Since AIDS is now defined partially by the presence of HIV, Duesberg claims it is impossible by definition to offer evidence that AIDS doesn't require HIV. However, the first definitions of AIDS mentioned no cause and the first AIDS diagnoses were made before HIV was discovered. The addition of HIV positivity to surveillance criteria as an absolutely necessary condition for case reporting occurred only in 1993, after a scientific consensus was established that HIV caused AIDS.\n\nAccording to the Duesberg hypothesis, AIDS is not found in Africa. What Duesberg calls \"the myth of an African AIDS epidemic,\" among people\" exists for several reasons, including:\n\nDuesberg states that African AIDS cases are \"a collection of long-established, indigenous diseases, such as chronic fevers, weight loss, alias \"slim disease,\" diarrhea, and tuberculosis\" that result from malnutrition and poor sanitation. African AIDS cases, though, have increased in the last three decades as HIV's prevalence has increased but as malnutrition percentages and poor sanitation have declined in many African regions. In addition, while HIV and AIDS are more prevalent in urban than in rural settings in Africa, malnutrition and poor sanitation are found more commonly in rural than in urban settings.\n\nAccording to Duesberg, common diseases are easily misdiagnosed as AIDS in Africa because \"the diagnosis of African AIDS is arbitrary\" and does not include HIV testing. A definition of AIDS agreed upon in 1985 by the World Health Organization in Bangui did not require a positive HIV test, but since 1985, many African countries have added positive HIV tests to the Bangui criteria for AIDS or changed their definitions to match those of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. One of the reasons for using more HIV tests despite their expense is that, rather than overestimating AIDS as Duesberg suggests, the Bangui definition alone excluded nearly half of African AIDS patients.\"\n\nDuesberg notes that diseases associated with AIDS differ between African and Western populations, concluding that the causes of immunodeficiency must be different. Tuberculosis is much more commonly diagnosed among AIDS patients in Africa than in Western countries, while PCP conforms to the opposite pattern. Tuberculosis, though, had higher prevalence in Africa than in the West before the spread of HIV. In Africa and the United States, HIV has spurred a similar percentage increase in tuberculosis cases. PCP may be underestimated in Africa: since machinery \"required for accurate testing is relatively rare in many resource-poor areas, including large parts of Africa, PCP is likely to be underdiagnosed in Africa. Consistent with this hypothesis, studies that report the highest rates of PCP in Africa are those that use the most advanced diagnostic methods\" Duesberg also claims that Kaposi's Sarcoma is \"exclusively diagnosed in male homosexual risk groups using nitrite inhalants and other psychoactive drugs as aphrodisiacs\", but the cancer is fairly common among heterosexuals in some parts of Africa, and is found in heterosexuals in the United States as well.\n\nBecause reported AIDS cases in Africa and other parts of the developing world include a larger proportion of people who do not belong to Duesberg's preferred risk groups of drug addicts and male homosexuals, Duesberg writes on his website that \"There are no risk groups in Africa, like drug addicts and homosexuals.\" However, many studies have addressed the issue of risk groups in Africa and concluded that the risk of AIDS is not equally distributed. In addition, AIDS in Africa largely kills sexually active working-age adults.\n\nSouth African president Thabo Mbeki accepted Duesberg's hypothesis and, through the mid-2000s, rejected offers of medical assistance to fight HIV infection, a policy of inaction that cost over 300,000 lives.\n\nDuesberg argues that retroviruses like HIV must be harmless to survive: they do not kill cells and they do not cause cancer, he maintains. Duesberg writes, \"retroviruses do not kill cells because they depend on viable cells for the replication of their RNA from viral DNA integrated into cellular DNA.\" Duesberg elsewhere states that \"the typical virus reproduces by entering a living cell and commandeering the cell's resources in order to make new virus particles, a process that ends with the disintegration of the dead cell.\"\n\nDuesberg also rejects the involvement of retroviruses and other viruses in cancer. To him, virus-associated cancers are \"freak accidents of nature\" that do not warrant research programs such as the War on Cancer. Duesberg rejects a role in cancer for numerous viruses, including leukemia viruses, Epstein-Barr Virus, Human Papilloma Virus, Hepatitis B, Feline Leukemia Virus, and Human T-lymphotropic virus.\n\nDuesberg claims that the supposedly innocuous nature of all retroviruses is supported by what he considers to be their normal mode of proliferation: infection from mother to child \"in utero\". Duesberg does not suggest that HIV is an endogenous retrovirus, a virus integrated into the germ line and genetically heritable:\n\nThe consensus in the scientific community is that the Duesberg hypothesis has been refuted by a large and growing mass of evidence showing that HIV causes AIDS, that the amount of virus in the blood correlates with disease progression, that a plausible mechanism for HIV's action has been proposed, and that anti-HIV medication decreases mortality and opportunistic infection in people with AIDS.\n\nIn the 9 December 1994 issue of \"Science\" (Vol. 266, No. 5191), Duesberg's methods and claims were evaluated in a group of articles. The authors concluded that\n\nThe vast majority of people with AIDS have never received antiretroviral drugs, including those in developed countries prior to the licensure of AZT (zidovudine) in 1987, and people in developing countries today where very few individuals have access to these medications.\n\nThe NIAID reports that \"in the mid-1980s, clinical trials enrolling patients with AIDS found that AZT given as single-drug therapy conferred a modest survival advantage compared [with] placebo. Among HIV-infected patients who had not yet developed AIDS, placebo-controlled trials found that AZT given as single-drug therapy delayed, for a year or two, the onset of AIDS-related illnesses. Significantly, long-term follow-up of these trials did not show a prolonged benefit of AZT, but also did not indicate that the drug increased disease progression or mortality. The lack of excess AIDS cases and death in the AZT arms of these placebo-controlled trials in effect counters the argument that AZT causes AIDS. Subsequent clinical trials found that patients receiving two-drug combinations had up to 50 percent improvements in time to progression to AIDS and in survival when compared with people receiving single-drug therapy. In more recent years, three-drug combination therapies have produced another 50 to 80 percent improvement in progression to AIDS and in survival when compared with two-drug regimens in clinical trials.\" \"Use of potent anti-HIV combination therapies has contributed to dramatic reductions in the incidence of AIDS and AIDS-related deaths in populations where these drugs are widely available, an effect which clearly would not be seen if antiretroviral drugs caused AIDS.\"\n\nDuesberg claims as support for his idea that many drug-free HIV-positive people have not yet developed AIDS; HIV/AIDS scientists note that many drug-free HIV-positive people have developed AIDS, and that, in the absence of medical treatment or rare genetic factors postulated to delay disease progression, it is very likely that nearly all HIV-positive people will eventually develop AIDS. Scientists also note that HIV-negative drug users do not suffer from immune system collapse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3910148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3910148", "title": "European Centre for Minority Issues", "text": "European Centre for Minority Issues\n\nThe European Centre for Minority Issues (ECMI) is a research institute based in Flensburg, Germany, that conducts research into minority-majority relations in Europe. ECMI is a non-partisan and interdisciplinary institution. It is a non-profit, independent foundation, registered according to German Civil Law.\n\nECMI was established in 1996 by the governments of Denmark, Germany and Schleswig-Holstein. The Centre is governed by a board composed of nine members: three from Denmark, three from Germany, one representative from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, one from the Council of Europe and one from the European Union. The institute's first director was Stefan Troebst, now Professor of East European Cultural Studies at the University of Leipzig. The current director is Tove H. Malloy. The Centre employs a core staff and also hosts visiting fellows and visiting research associates.\nThe Centre organizes its activities around three principal themes. It is concerned with the evaluation and further development of universal, regional, bilateral and national standards that may assist in consolidating democratic governance on the basis of ethnic diversity and human rights. In this context, ECMI is also particularly interested in the emerging convergence of standards between EU members and applicant states. A second area of involvement relates to implementation procedures and mechanisms for these diverse standards and the study of their effectiveness. At times, ECMI has been invited to consider standards implementation and majority-minority relations in particular states in cooperation with the government of that state and local groups.\n\nOver the years,the European Centre for Minority Issues has produced a number of Monographs, Reports, Working Papers and Issue Briefs,as well as the peer reviewed online open access journal, Journal on Ethnopolitics and Minority Issues in Europe (JEMIE), in addition to co-editorship (with EURAC Bozen) of the flagship publication European Yearbook of Minority Issues. The goal of this publication effort is to increase the awareness and dissemination of topics on minority issues, as well as to encourage further research in this field.\n\n\n\nECMI Kosovo\n\nECMI Caucasus\n\nJEMIE\n"}
{"id": "53344931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53344931", "title": "Forum for Democracy (Netherlands)", "text": "Forum for Democracy (Netherlands)\n\nForum for Democracy (, FvD) is a national-conservative, eurosceptic political party in the Netherlands, founded as a think tank by Thierry Baudet who has been the party's leader since 22 September 2016.\n\nThe party first participated in elections in the 2017 general election, winning two seats in the House of Representatives.\n\nForum for Democracy was established as a think tank; its main feat was campaigning for the 2016 Dutch Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement referendum. In September 2016, it converted itself into a political party and announced its intention to take part in the 2017 Dutch general election. In joining the democratic system, they hope to change the system.\n\nIn the 2017 general election, the FvD ended up with 1.8% of the vote and 2 seats, entering parliament for the first time.\n\nIn March 2017 the FvD had approximately 5,000 members. The bulk of the Forum's parliamental candidates did not have prior active experience in other political parties. In February 2018 the party suffered from internal issues with a number of prominent members leaving the party, because they felt the party had a lack of internal democracy.\n\nIn the 2018 municipal elections, the FvD won 3 seats at the Amsterdam city council.\n\nThe party is a proponent of the introduction of high tax free bracket for everyone, the abolition of taxes on gifts and inheritance and a radical simplification of tax brackets. Additionally, the party is in favour of promoting environmental sustainability and innovation through tax cuts for renewable energy, the sharing economy and organic agriculture, as well as investments in digital infrastructure and reduction of regulation while ensuring privacy. The party is a proponent of drastic changes in elementary and secondary education, focusing on performance evaluations for teachers. They want to expand the armed forces, expanding the National Reserve Corps and reverting defence budget cuts. In addition, the party has promoted plans to privatize the Dutch public broadcasting organisation, the Nederlandse Publieke Omroep.\n\nOne of the major issues the party campaigns against is the perceived existence of a \"party cartel\", in which the main ruling parties of the country divide power among themselves and conspire towards the same goals, despite claiming to be competitors. The party promises direct democracy through binding referenda, as well as directly elected mayors and a directly elected Prime Minister. The party is also in favour of the government consisting of apolitical experts, and top civil servants having to reapply for their positions when a new cabinet is formed.\n\nThe party opposes the European Union and campaigns for a referendum on Dutch E.U. membership. It also adopts a nationalist viewpoint in which the Dutch culture should be protected; the party is in favor of reinstating border controls and ending what it perceives as mass immigration. It campaigns against unchecked immigration, and says it would introduce a \"Dutch Values Protection Act\" and wants to ban Islamic face veils and other face coverings.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "244202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244202", "title": "George Speight", "text": "George Speight\n\nGeorge Speight (['speːt]; born 1957), occasionally known as Ilikini Naitini, is a Fijian businessman. He was the leader of the Fiji coup of 2000, in which he and an elite unit of Fiji's military detained thirty-six members of parliament and held them hostage from May 19, 2000 to July 13, 2000. He is serving life imprisonment for his role in the coup.\n\nOn May 19, 2000, a disparate gang led by Speight stormed the parliamentary complex and kidnapped Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry and 35 other parliamentarians for the i Taukei (indigenous) rights, including several cabinet ministers. Announcing that he had deposed both the government and the President, Speight swore in serving ruling government member Timoci Silatolu as Prime Minister, and proclaimed Jope Seniloli president in place of Kamisese Mara. Seniloli has since been convicted of treason for aiding and abetting the coup. President Mara tried to resist Speight's takeover, but was abruptly removed himself on 29 May by Commodore Frank Bainimarama, the Commander of the Military who subsequently abrogated the constitution, made himself Prime Minister and swore in his own President, Ratu Epeli Nailatikau (Ratu Jope Seniloli's cousin).\n\nThe overthrow of the government saw support for Speight's cause as outbreaks of violence occurred in Suva, Levuka, Naitasiri, Tailevu, Ra, Nadi, Yasawa, Serua, Namosi, and on July 7 an army base on Vanua Levu Island was overrun by his supporters.\n\nFifteen soldiers and two of their officers defected to the rebels and George Speight built up a strong private army. On June 9, Speight announced that he had abolished Fiji's multi-racial Constitution. Three days later, Speight's car was sprayed with gunfire, but the army denied that soldiers were involved in an operation to kill him. On June 25, four female hostages were released. On July 13, Chaudhry was released following an agreement between the rebels and the military administration of Commodore Bainimarama. Claiming that he had signed the agreement \"under duress,\" Bainimarama promptly rescinded it. On 27 July, Speight was arrested with 369 of his followers and charged with treason.\n\nSpeight claimed to be a Fijian nationalist and a champion of indigenous rights. He attracted support from elements of the Fijian population who were angered by the results of the 1999 election, which had swept away a government dominated by ethnic Fijians and brought to power a multiracial government led by Mahendra Chaudhry, who became Fiji's first-ever Indo-Fijian Prime Minister. Hints that the Chaudhry government might institute some form of land reform also generated considerable resentment among sections of the indigenous population, despite constitutional guarantees that ethnic Fijian ownership of 83 percent of the land could not be changed without the support of 9 of the 14 senators appointed by the Great Council of Chiefs, a wholly indigenous body. The lead-up to the coup had seen politicians and other public figures play upon this resentment and foster public fear that native land might be alienated. Speight thus found a sizeable number of sympathizers when he launched the coup on 19 May.\n\nSpeight's partner, Torika Rawlinson, told the student newspaper Wansolwara that the original intention had been to execute members of the deposed government the night before the coup actually took place. She denied others' reports that Indo-Fijian businessmen had been involved.\n\nIn August 2001, democracy was restored and in the subsequent election Speight was elected to the House of Representatives using the name of Ilikimi Naitini. He was elected as a Representative for the Tailevu North Fijian Communal constituency as a candidate of the Conservative Alliance Matanitu Vanua Party despite his confinement on Nukulau Island. Speight was prevented by the speaker of the Fiji parliament, Epeli Nailatikau, from taking up his seat in Parliament. That December he was expelled from Parliament for non-attendance.\n\nOn 18 February 2002, Speight was sentenced to death after pleading guilty to a charge of treason. However, the government of the Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase had abolished the death sentence in the House of Representatives on the day that Speight was sentenced. President Josefa Iloilo, who had replaced Mara following the coup, followed the advice of the Prime Minister and commuted Speight's sentence to life imprisonment. Speight started serving his sentence on Nukulau Island where he had been living in exile. Following the decision of the military government to close the Nukulau facility, Speight was transferred on 20 December 2006. He is currently serving his sentence at the Naboro Maximum Security Prison.\n\nOn 15 September 2004, a source close to the Fijian government revealed that Speight had renewed his faith in Christianity during his imprisonment. According to the source, Speight's faith had led to a change of heart towards the Indo-Fijian community, and that he wished to participate in the upcoming Fiji Week, a series of prayer meetings and multicultural programmes aimed at reconciling Fiji's ethnic communities, planned for the week of 4 October through 11 October. \"He now feels inspired by the word of God and would like to take part in the week of reconciliation,\" the source told the Australian Associated Press. This request for permission to leave his island prison to take part in the observances was refused, however. A spokesman for deposed Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry said that he would be prepared to meet with Speight in principle, —provided that he reveal the identities of the persons who had planned and financed the coup.\n\nThe Fiji Village news service reported on 29 January 2006 that Speight and his associates had indicated his willingness to face the government's proposed Reconciliation and Unity Commission and reveal what they knew about the planning, financing, and execution of the coup. This was an apparent reversal of his earlier vow to remain silent.\n\n\"Fiji Live\" quoted Speight as alleging that the real reason for the strident opposition of the military to the legislation establishing the proposed Commission was that their and, in particular, Bainimarama's own role in the coup plot would be in danger of being revealed. The latest information revealed by some of the CRW troops arrested with Speight suggest that Bainimarama may have been the real coup leader after giving the go-ahead at the last security council meeting on Friday May 12, 2000 at Valelevu. Bainimara's subsequent departure for Norway ensured that he was free from coup conspiracy. On his return not long after the takeover he sent a delegation made up of military spokesmen Colonel Filipo Tarakinikini, Colonel Etueni Caucau and acting Commander Colonel Tuatoko to express his full support for Speight and ex SAS Warrant Officer, Ilisoni Ligairi. Both men were unaware of the pre-coup arrangements set up by Bainimarama. A dispute arose, though, as to who should be in the caretaker government as Bainimarama expected to run the country with a few of his close advisers such as Colonel Jerry Waqanisau, Colonel Kacisolomoni, Colonel Paul Manueli and others. This conflict led to a 56-day rule by Bainimarama after which he was forced to step down by Speight and to return the office of the Presidency to civilian rule. Inside sources allege that Bainimarama manipulated his oblivious officers to finally achieve his pre-May 19, 2000 objectives of ruling the country. \n\nThe University of the South Pacific journalism school in Fiji provided coverage of the upheaval on its website Pacific Journalism Online and newspaper Wansolwara until its website was temporarily shut down on May 29 during the martial law period. The students' coverage archive is at the University of Technology, Sydney, Australia. \n\nGeorge Speight hails from Naivicula, about ten kilometers from Korovou in Tailevu Province. He is the son of Sam Speight (sometimes known as Savenaca Tokainavo), a prosperous farmer of ethnic Fijian and European descent. The elder Speight is a war veteran who served in the successful Malayan campaign. He subsequently served as a backbencher in Rabuka's governments throughout the 1990s. By the time his son attempted his coup in 2000, however, Sam Speight was an opposition member of Parliament, his Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei having lost power to the Indo-Fijian-led Labour Party of Mahendra Chaudhry in the elections of 1999.\n\nSpeight has a son, Ely (born 1998) with Torika Rawlinson.\n\nSpeight graduated with Bachelor's and Master's degrees in Business from Michigan's Andrews University. He subsequently settled in Australia, where he worked as a sales representative for the Computer Orchard, a Brisbane-based Apple Computer dealer, and later as a branch manager for Metway Bank before returning to Fiji in 1996. He then became chairman of Fiji Pine, Ltd. and of Fiji Hardwood Corporation, Ltd.. He also became a manager of Heath Fiji, Ltd. but resigned due to shareholder personality conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "288224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288224", "title": "Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem", "text": "Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem\n\nIn social choice theory, the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem is a result published independently by philosopher Allan Gibbard in 1973 and economist Mark Satterthwaite in 1975. It deals with deterministic ordinal electoral systems that choose a single winner. It states that for every voting rule, one of the following three things must hold:\n\n\nWhile the scope of this theorem is limited to ordinal voting, Gibbard's theorem is more general, in that it deals with processes of collective decision that may not be ordinal: for example, voting systems where voters assign grades to candidates. Gibbard's 1978 theorem and Hylland's theorem are even more general and extend these results to non-deterministic processes, i.e. where the outcome may not only depend on the voters' actions but may also involve a part of chance.\n\nConsider some voters named formula_1, formula_2 and formula_3, who wish to select an option among four candidates named formula_4, formula_5, formula_6 and formula_7. Assume that they use the Borda count: each voter communicates her preference order over the candidates. For each ballot, 3 points are assigned to the top candidate, 2 points to the second candidate, 1 point to the third one and no point to the last one. Once all ballots have been counted, the candidate with most points is declared the winner.\n\nAssume that preferences are as follows.formula_8This notation means that voter formula_1 prefers formula_4, then formula_5, formula_6 and formula_7; voters formula_2 and formula_3 both prefer formula_6, then formula_5, formula_7 and formula_4. If the voters cast sincere ballots, then the scores are: formula_20. Hence, candidate formula_6 get elected, with 7 points.\n\nBut voter formula_1 can figure out that another ballot defend her opinions better. Assume that she modifies her ballot, in order to produce the following situation.formula_23Voter formula_1 has strategically upgraded candidate formula_5 and downgraded candidate formula_6. Now, the scores are: formula_27. Hence, formula_5 is elected. Voter formula_1 is satisfied of her ballot modification, because she prefers the outcome formula_5 to formula_6, which is the outcome she would obtain if she voted sincerely.\n\nWe say that the Borda count is \"manipulable\": there exists situations where a sincere ballot does not defend a voter's preferences best.\n\nUnfortunately, the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem states that a voting rule must be manipulable, except possibly in two cases: if there is a distinguished voter who has a dictatorial power, or if the rule limits the possible outcomes to two options only.\n\nLet formula_32 be the set of \"alternatives\" (which is assumed finite), also called \"candidates\", even if they are not necessarily persons: they can also be several possible decisions about a given issue. We denote by formula_33 the set of \"voters\". Let formula_34 be the set of strict weak orders over formula_32: an element of this set can represent the preferences of a voter. A \"voting rule\" is a function formula_36. Its input is a profile of preferences formula_37 and it yields the identity of the winning candidate.\n\nWe say that formula_38 is \"manipulable\" if and only if there exists a profile formula_37 where some voter formula_40, by replacing her ballot formula_41 with another ballot formula_42, can get an outcome that she prefers (in the sense of formula_41).\n\nWe denote by formula_44 the image of formula_38, i.e. the set of \"possible outcomes\" for the election. For example, we say that formula_38 has at least three possible outcomes if and only if the cardinality of formula_44 is 3 or more.\n\nWe say that formula_38 is \"dictatorial\" if and only if there exists a voter formula_40 who is a \"dictator\", in the sense that the winning alternative is always her most-liked one among the possible outcomes \"regardless of the preferences of other voters\". If the dictator has several ex-aequo most-liked alternatives among the possible outcomes, then the winning alternative is simply one of them.\n\nThe \"serial dictatorship\" is defined as follows. If voter 1 has a unique most-liked candidate, then this candidate is elected. Otherwise, possible outcomes are restricted to her ex-aequo most-liked candidates, whereas the other candidates are eliminated. Then voter 2's ballot is examined: if she has a unique best-liked candidate among the non-eliminated ones, then this candidate is elected. Otherwise, the list of possible outcomes is reduced again, etc. If there is still several non-eliminated candidates after all ballots have been examined, then an arbitrary tie-breaking rule is used.\n\nThis voting rule is not manipulable: a voter is always better off communicating her sincere preferences. It is also dictatorial, and its dictator is voter 1: the winning alternative is always her most-liked one or, if she likes several alternatives best, it is chosen among them.\n\nIf there are only 2 possible outcomes, a voting rule may be non-manipulable without being dictatorial. For example, it is the case of the simple majority vote: each voter assigns 1 point to her top alternative and 0 to the other, and the alternative with most points is declared the winner. This voting rule is not manipulable because a voter is always better off communicating her sincere preferences; and it is clearly not dictatorial. Many other rules are neither manipulable nor dictatorial: for example, assume that the alternative formula_4 wins if it gets two thirds of the votes, and formula_5 wins otherwise.\n\nConsider the following rule. All candidates are eliminated, except the candidate or candidates that are placed in top position in voter 1's ballot. Then, among the non-eliminated candidates, one is elected using the Borda count. This whole process is dictatorial, by definition. However, it is manipulable, for the same reasons as the usual Borda count. Thus, the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem is an implication and not an equivalence.\n\nWe now consider the case where by assumption, a voter cannot be indifferent between two candidates. We denote by formula_52 the set of strict total orders over formula_32 and we define a \"strict voting rule\" as a function formula_54. The definitions of \"possible outcomes\", \"manipulable\", \"dictatorial\" have natural adaptations to this framework.\n\nFor a strict voting rule, the converse of the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem is true. Indeed, a strict voting rule is dictatorial if and only if it always selects the most-liked candidate of the dictator among the possible outcomes; in particular, it does not depend on the other voters' ballots. As a consequence, it is not manipulable: the dictator is perfectly defended by her sincere ballot, and the other voters have no impact on the outcome, hence they have no incentive to deviate from sincere voting. Thus, we obtain the following equivalence.\n\nIn the theorem, as well as in the corollary, it is not needed to assume that any alternative can be elected. It is only assumed that at least three of them can win, i.e. are \"possible outcomes\" of the voting rule. It is possible that some other alternatives can be elected in no circumstances: the theorem and the corollary still apply. However, the corollary is sometimes presented under a less general form: instead of assuming that the rule has at least three possible outcomes, it is sometimes assumed that formula_32 contains at least three elements and that the voting rule is \"onto\", i.e. every alternative is a possible outcome. The assumption of being onto is sometimes even replaced with the assumption that the rule is \"unanimous\", in the sense that if all voters prefer the same candidate, then she must be elected.\n\nThe Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem can be proved based on Arrow's impossibility theorem, which deals with social ranking functions, i.e. voting systems designed to yield a complete preference order of the candidates, rather than simply choosing a winner. We give a sketch of proof in the simplified case where the voting rule formula_38 is assumed to be unanimous. It is possible to build a social ranking function formula_57, as follows: in order to decide whether formula_58, the formula_57 function creates new preferences in which formula_4 and formula_5 are moved to the top of all voters' preferences. Then, formula_57 examines whether formula_38 chooses formula_4 or formula_5. It is possible to prove that, if formula_38 is non-manipulable and non-dictatorial, then formula_57 satisfies the properties: unanimity, independence of irrelevant alternatives, and it is not a dictatorship. Arrow's impossibility theorem says that, when there are three or more alternatives, such a formula_57 function cannot exist. Hence, such an formula_38 function also cannot exist.\n\nThe strategic aspect of voting is already noticed in 1876 by Charles Dodgson, a pioneer in social choice theory, also known as Lewis Carroll. His quote (about a particular voting system) was made famous by Duncan Black:This principle of voting makes an election more of a game of skill than a real test of the wishes of the electors.During the 1950s, Robin Farquharson published influential articles on voting theory. In an article with Michael Dummett, he conjectures that deterministic voting rules with at least three issues face endemic tactical voting. This Farquarson-Dummett conjecture is proven independently by Allan Gibbard and Mark Satterthwaite. In a 1973 article, Gibbard exploits Arrow's impossibility theorem to prove the theorem that now bears his name, and he then deduces the present result, which is an immediate consequence of it. Independently, Satterthwaite proves the same result in his PhD dissertation in 1973, then publishes it in a 1975 article. His proof is also based on Arrow's impossibility theorem, but he doesn't expose the more general version given by Gibbard's theorem. Later, several authors develop variants of the proof, generally shorter, either for the theorem itself or for the corollary and weakened versions we mentioned above.\n\nGibbard's theorem deals with processes of collective choice that may not be ordinal, i.e. where a voter's action may not consist in communicating a preference order over the candidates. Gibbard's 1978 theorem and Hylland's theorem extend these results to non-deterministic mechanisms, i.e. where the outcome may not only depend on the ballots but may also involve a part of chance.\n\nThe Duggan–Schwartz theorem extend this result in another direction, by dealing with deterministic voting rules that choose a nonempty subset of the candidates rather than a single winner.\n\nThe Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem is generally presented as a result belonging to the field of social choice theory, and applying to voting systems, but it can also be seen as the seminal result of mechanism design, which deals with conceiving rules to make collective decisions, possibly in processes that involve a monetary transfer. Noam Nisan describes this relation:The GS theorem seems to quash any hope of designing incentive-compatible social-choice functions. The whole field of Mechanism Design attempts escaping from this impossibility result using various modifications in the model.The main idea of these \"escape routes\" is that they deal only with restricted classes of preferences, in contrast to the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem, which deals with arbitrary preferences. For example, in this discipline, it is frequently assumed that agents have quasi-linear preferences, which means that their utility function depends linearly on money. In that case, monetary transfers can be used to induce them to act truthfully. This is the idea behind the successful Vickrey–Clarke–Groves auction.\n\n"}
{"id": "145937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=145937", "title": "Grand duchy", "text": "Grand duchy\n\nA grand duchy is a country or territory whose official head of state or ruler is a monarch bearing the title of grand duke or grand duchess. Relatively rare until the abolition of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, the term was often used in the official name of countries smaller than most continental kingdoms of modern Europe (e.g., Denmark, Spain, United Kingdom) yet larger than most of the sovereign duchies in the Holy Roman Empire, Italy or Scandinavia (e.g. Anhalt, Lorraine, Modena, Schleswig-Holstein). During the 19th century there were as many as 14 grand duchies in Europe at once (a few of which were first created as exclaves of the Napoleonic empire but later re-created, usually with different borders, under another dynasty). Some of these were sovereign and nominally independent (Baden, Hesse and by Rhine, Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Mecklenburg-Strelitz, Oldenburg, Saxe-Weimar and Tuscany), some sovereign but held in personal union with larger realms by a monarch whose grand-dukedom was borne as a subsidiary title (Finland, Luxembourg, Transylvania), some of which were client states of a more powerful realm (Cleves and Berg), and some whose territorial boundaries were nominal and the position purely titular (Frankfurt).\n\nIn the 21st century, only Luxembourg remains a grand duchy.\n\nThe only grand duchy still extant is Luxembourg. It regained its independence from Napoleonic France and became a sovereign grand duchy in 1815 by decision of the Congress of Vienna which dealt with the political aftermath of the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nIn order to act as a sufficient counterbalance to France, the Congress decided to grant the dignity of grand duke of Luxembourg to the monarch of the newly created United Kingdom of the Netherlands which comprised present-day Netherlands and Belgium. Luxembourg remained in personal union with the crown of the Netherlands until 1890 when William III, King of the Netherlands and Grand Duke of Luxembourg, died without leaving a male heir. He was succeeded on the Dutch throne by his daughter Wilhelmina who could not become Grand Duchess of Luxembourg under the semi-Salic law established by the Congress of Vienna, which allocated the grand ducal throne to any branch of the House of Nassau in which there were still male dynasts once males died out in other branches. As a consequence, William III was succeeded as grand duke by a distant male cousin, Adolphe from the elder branch of Nassau-Weilburg (at present \"Luxembourg-Nassau\"). The current monarch is Henri, Grand Duke of Luxembourg since 2000.\n\nThe contemporary independent republics of Finland and Lithuania have been grand duchies during certain eras of their history.\n\nThe same is true for the core state of what would ultimately become the Russian Empire: the grand duchy of Muscovy.\n\nThe term \"grand duchy\" is of relatively late invention, used at first in Western Europe in 1569 in the case of Tuscany, to denote either territories of a particularly mighty duke or territories of significant importance in political, economical or military matters without being of sufficient size or importance to be recognized internationally as a kingdom.\n\nThe number of duchies had inflated towards the end of the Middle Ages to an extent that included middle-sized towns or relatively small fiefs, as compared to the national, pre-medieval tribal provinces. As a consequence, a new title was needed to make the difference between important and unimportant regional powers: the title grand duke was born.\n\nOne of the first examples was the unofficial use of the title for the dukes of Burgundy who almost succeeded in forming a new kingdom in the historic area called \"Lotharingia\", composed of modern-day eastern France (Burgundy, Franche-Comté, Alsatia, Lorraine, Champagne) as well as most of current Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg (Benelux). The first monarchy ever officially titled a \"grand duchy\" was the Medici sovereignty over Tuscany under suzerainty of the Holy Roman Emperors, the first rulers receiving the title in 1569. Tuscany remained a grand duchy until 1860, when it was annexed by the Kingdom of Sardinia which succeeded in establishing a united Kingdom of Italy.\n\nThe Grand Duchy of Lithuania had an elective monarch since 1569 and came under the prolonged dominance of the Polish crown, until both monarchies were eradicated in 1795 by the combined intervention of Russia, Prussia and Austria.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century, Napoléon I occasionally used the title \"grand duchy\" for several French satellite states given to his relatives or generals. Other allies abandoned the orbit of the Holy Roman Empire to join Napoleon's nominally independent Confederation of the Rhine. The elevation of these vassals to the title of grand duke was usually accompanied by an expansion of their realms with additional territory gathered at the expense of subdued powers such as Prussia. Though Napoleon was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo and most of his newly created satellite states abolished, the Congress of Vienna restored some of the previous sovereign duchies and principalities, while recognizing others as grand duchies. As a result, the 19th century saw the creation of a new group of grand duchies in central Europe, such as the grand duchies of Hesse, Baden and Oldenburg.\n\nHistorically, in Europe a sovereign grand duke was one of the highest ranks among hereditary rulers after emperor and king, and was equal to that of prince-elector; ranking as royalty, i.e., European rulers and, in Germany, the reigning nobility (\"Hochadel\"). The correct form of address (also for the heir apparent and his wife) is Royal Highness (HRH).\n\nThe title of grand duke borne under the Russian Empire by children and grandchildren of its rulers was a non-sovereign honorific, unrelated to any grand duchy, to which was attached the style of Imperial Highness (HIH). Ranking, internationally, no higher than the members of other reigning dynasties whose head held the title of emperor, the usage was an historical anomaly, persisting from the elevation of the Grand Duchy of Muscovy to the tsardom and, later, empire of All Russia, until its collapse in 1917.\n\nIn several Balto-Slavic languages (such as Russian, Lithuanian, for example), the term often translated in English as \"grand duke\" is literally \"grand prince\". In some western European languages (English, French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, etc.), the term \"grand prince\" was rare or non-existent, used to refer to some rulers of Russia, Transylvania or Tuscany prior to the 19th century. In German and Scandinavian languages, both titles co-exist: ' (\"grand duke\") and ' (\"grand prince\"), and are used to distinguish, respectively, a ruling grand duke and a cadet of the Russian imperial family.\n\nWithin Germany, use of the title expanded after 1815, but \"grand duke\" translates two different titles of German provenance. The German language has two distinct words for what is called a \"prince\" in English: one is used to refer to a member of the dynasty of a monarch ('), and the other is normally borne by a modern sovereign hereditary ruler of the lowest rank ('). Emerging from the Middle Ages, the Grand Dukes of Lithuania and of historic Russian states, as well as other Eastern European princes and later Russian dynasts, were referred to by the title (', ), whose literal English translation is \"grand prince\" rather than \"grand duke\". Although \"grand prince\" is found in historical references, since the reign of Catherine the Great, the Russian ' has usually been translated into English as \"grand duke\". Since the 18th century it has been used to refer to cadets of the imperial House of Romanov who were children or patrilineal grandchildren of a Russian emperor. More remote descendants of emperors were titled \"prince\" (, \").\n\nThe title \" or \"grand duke\" () is said to have been used by the rulers of Lithuania, and after rulers from the Jagiellonian dynasty became Kings of Poland, it was later found among the titles used by the kings of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. The Polish kings of the Swedish House of Vasa also used this grand-princely title for their non-Polish territories.\nJunior members of the dynasties of historical grand duchies in Germany sometimes bore the style of Highness, sometimes that of Grand Ducal Highness, and continued to be accorded those styles post-monarchy by courtesy in such reference works as the \"Almanach de Gotha\" and Burke's Peerage.\n\nBetween the Napoleonic Wars and World War I there were several grand duchies in Europe. Some were created in the Napoleonic era and, others were recognized by the Congress of Vienna and were founding members of the German Confederation.\n\n\nThe term \"grand duchy\" is often, but incorrectly, used in reference to Warsaw between 1807 and 1813, which was in fact the Duchy of Warsaw.\n\nOther jurisdictions often referred to historically as grand duchies were, properly, grand principalities:\n\n\nIn Belgium, \"Grand-Duché\" (French for \"grand duchy\") is often used as a metonym to refer to the neighbouring country, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. This practice helps to avoid confusion with the adjacent Belgian Province of Luxembourg, i.e. the Walloon-speaking part of the portion of Luxembourg which was annexed by Belgium in 1839.\n\n"}
{"id": "52724324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52724324", "title": "High Negotiations Committee", "text": "High Negotiations Committee\n\nThe High Negotiations Committee (HNC) is an umbrella body which was created to represent the Syrian opposition in the planned Geneva peace talks in 2016. It is led by Riyad Farid Hijab, who was Prime Minister of Syria from June to August 2012. It is considered to be Syria's main or broadest opposition bloc.\n\nThe HNC was founded in December 2015 at a conference held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, which was attended by around 100 delegates. At the end of the conference, a joint statement was issued to confirm the formation of \"a High Negotiations Committee for the Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces (HNC), with its headquarters in Riyadh, to undertake the tasks of choosing a negotiating delegation and to act reference point for negotiators with the representatives of the Syrian regime on behalf of the participants\".\n\nThe group's chief negotiator, Mohammed Alloush, a member of Jaish al-Islam, resigned from the HNC in May 2016 because of the lack of progress in the Syrian peace process. \n\nIn September 2016, the HNC set out a detailed transition plan for Syria, committing the country to democratic and religious pluralism. The 25-page document was launched in London and was welcomed by the United Kingdom's government.\n\nIn January 2017, the HNC announced that it will support the Syrian peace talks in Astana, which began on 23 January. \n\nIn February 2017, the HNC chief coordinator Riyad Farid Hijab rejected a statement by Staffan de Mistura that the latter will select delegates for the Syrian opposition in Geneva. He also objected to the participation Democratic Union Party (PYD) in the Geneva conference.\n\nThe HNC, led by Naser al-Hariri, participated in the Geneva peace talks on Syria (2017).\n\nThe HNC has faced criticism from Russia because it includes groups like Ahrar al-Sham and Jaysh al-Islam. Its transition plan in September 2016 was also criticized by the opposition Kurdish National Council and the Assyrian Democratic Organization due to it not addressing minority ethnic groups in Syria. The Kurdish National Council withdrew from the HNC on 29 March 2017 in protest to the latter's opposition to federalism and human rights for Kurds in Syria.\n\nAs of December 2015, the HNC included 33 committee members from the following political and military opposition organizations:\n\n"}
{"id": "58377466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58377466", "title": "I sing of Olaf", "text": "I sing of Olaf\n\n\"i sing of Olaf\" (sometimes referred to as \"i sing of Olaf glad and big\") is a poem by e.e. cummings. It first appeared in cummings' 1931 collection \"ViVa\". It depicts the life of Olaf, a conscientious objector and pacifist during the First World War who is tortured by the United States Army but nonetheless \"will not kiss your fucking flag\", and subsequently dies in prison.\n\nThe poem is based on the true story of a conscientious objector who cummings briefly knew while stationed at Camp Devens in 1918.\n\nCritics have noted the similarity of the opening stanza to that of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", underlining the contrast between Olaf (whose heroic values are based in peace) and Achilles (whose heroic values were based in war).\n\nAlthough the poem's original publication contained the word \"fucking\", anthologies typically bowdlerized this to \"f.ing\"; similarly, Olaf's statement that \"there is some shit i will not eat\" is typically rendered as \"there is some s. i will not eat\".\n\n\"i sing of Olaf\" was the inspiration for Marco Stroppa's 2005 piece \"I will not kiss your fucking flag\".\n"}
{"id": "45232679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45232679", "title": "Ibn Rushd Prize for Freedom of Thought", "text": "Ibn Rushd Prize for Freedom of Thought\n\nThe Ibn Rushd Prize for Freedom of Thought (; German: \"Ibn-Ruschd-Preis für freies Denken\") is a prestigious prize awarded in Germany which recognises independent, forward-thinking, individuals or organisations who have contributed to democracy and freedom of speech in the Arab world. \n\nThe prize has been awarded annually since 1999, with the exception of 2016, by the non-governmental Ibn-Rushd-Fund (); the fund itself was founded in 1998 on the occasion of the 800th anniversary of the Andalusian philosopher and thinker Ibn Rushd's death (often Latinized as Averroes), and on the 50th anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. \n\n"}
{"id": "8838169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8838169", "title": "International Commission on Peace and Food", "text": "International Commission on Peace and Food\n\nThe International Commission on Peace and Food (ICPF) was formed in 1989 as a private non-governmental initiative to bring an end to the arms race and thereby redirect the monetary resources of the world for accelerating global economic development.\n\nThough the then Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev tried very much to deescalate the existing arms race between the NATO and Soviet Blocs, world military spending continued to spiral upwards and reached an all-time high of 1.2 trillion dollars in the year 1988. This sparked a wave of fear that an intentional or accidental nuclear war was very much likely to occur at any time. Apart from an intensification of efforts to lessen the arms race, there was another parallel movement to augment world food supplies so that nobody in the world went hungry for even a day.\n\nTowards the end of that year The Mother's Service Society, a social science research institute based in Pondicherry, South India approached the renowned Indian Scientist M. S. Swaminathan to explore the possibility of convening a group of experts to promote the efforts to increase food supply and also at the same time intensify efforts to bring down the arms race. The Commission was formed with Swaminathan as the Chairman and included 25 leading scientists, defense and development experts and politicians. Notable among the political members were Queen Noor of Jordan and the former First Lady of the United States Rosalynn Carter. By the time the first meeting of the Commission took place at the end of September 1989 the world political climate had changed considerably for the better. Barely six weeks later the Berlin Wall fell signaling the beginning of the end of the Cold War.\n\nThe Commission was active for five long years during which time it held many fact-gathering sessions. It also conducted extensive research and made many useful recommendations to national and international agencies. Cashing in on the growing positive climate in the world the Commission also focused its attention on possibilities to accelerate and magnify developmental efforts in the world. During the next five years it held successive meetings on these themes in such countries as Italy, Russia, India, Jordan, Norway, USA, France and Germany.\n\nAmong its many memorable efforts, one can make special mention of the efforts ICPF took to dispel fears about growing unemployment. In a daring initiative the ICPF took the stand that it was eminently possible for the industrialized and developing countries of the world to fully absorb their labor force in productive employment. In pursuit of such a visionary scheme the Commission drew up a plan to generate 100 million jobs over a period of ten years in India. It was aptly named \"Prosperity 2000\" and its recommendations were accepted and endorsed by the Indian Government in 1992. A similar effort was made to extend such a scheme to solve the problem of unemployment among the Palestinians in the Middle East.\n\nThe Commission took a special interest in the affairs of the East European countries following the disbanding of the Soviet Bloc. It enlisted the support of Mikhail Gorbachev in advocating a more gradual and less disruptive transition to market economy in these countries than the one recommended by Western governments and monetary agencies. Such efforts led to the formulation of an effective strategy to counter run-away inflation in Yugoslavia by Commission Member Dr. Dragoslav Avramovic in 1994.\n\nThe Commission's final report, \"Uncommon Opportunities: An Agenda for Peace and Equitable Development\", was published in 1994 and formally presented to the UN Secretary General and member states by the Government of Jordan. The report was one of the first to view security from a wider perspective that includes political, social, economic and institutional factors required for a stable and prosperous society.\n\nThe Commission emphasized the linkage between democracy, peace and development and laid stress on the fact that the UN needs to democratize its functioning in order to fully succeed in its mission of promoting development and guaranteeing peace and security among the member states. The report called for the total elimination of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. Also it noted the role played by the trade in small arms in aggravating terrorism and criminal behavior across the world and called for measures to control of arms trade. It was critical of the prevalent competitive security paradigm that makes the military preparedness of each nation a perceived threat to other surrounding nations. As an alternative ICPF proposed a cooperative security system that is backed by a world army which guarantees the safety and security of member countries by reducing down the aggressive capabilities of all of them. The Commission's belief that long-standing political problems could be solved in a peaceful manner through economic progress stands vindicated by more recent events in Ireland, where rising prosperity has induced the IRA to give up its violent methods.\n\nIndia's phenomenal success in the area of food production through the launching of The Green Revolution led the Commission to conclude that the world possesses the technological and organizational capabilities to raise food production on par with the growth in world population. Such a conviction also encouraged the Commission to call for revolutionary steps to increase food production.\n\nICPF also concluded that the persistence of hunger in the world was less an issue of inadequate food production and more a problem stemming from the absence of purchasing power among the poor of the world due to the lack of sufficient employment opportunities. The Commission took the stand that rising levels of unemployment are not inevitable and can be reversed by the adoption of sound strategies for job generation compatible with market-driven economics. It noted that the shrinking population in OECD countries would force these countries to adopt more liberal immigration policies and outsourcing methods in order to offset growing labor shortages in future.\n\nThough the Commission was concerned with environmental problems arising from rampant exploitation of the earth's resources, it rejected the notion of limits to growth voiced by those who believed that the world's resources were limited. Instead it took the stand that infinite growth was possible if the mental and organizational resources available to humanity in the form of knowledge, technology, vocational skills and modes of organizations were fully utilized. ICPF noted with concern the marked absence of a body of theoretical knowledge concerning the process of development and issued a call for efforts to formulate a comprehensive theory of social evolution.\n\nThe financial resources for the functioning of the Commission were contributed by its own members coupled with public donations and other forms of support from such agencies as UNDP, UNESCO, Ford Foundation, The Third World Academy of Science, the Governments of USSR and Norway, The Gorbachev Foundation, The Carter Center and The Mother's Service Society.\n\nThe International Center for Peace and Development (ICPD), headquartered in Napa, California, was formed in 1995 to continue the work of the Commission. Harlan Cleveland, former President of the World Academy of Art & Science, former US Ambassador to NATO, served as chairman from 1995 to 2008. Garry Jacobs, former Secretary of the Commission, is Executive Director. In 2000, ICPD approached the governments of India and Pakistan to explore the possibilities of widening the economic cooperation between the two countries as a means of fostering peace. The Prosperity 2000 strategy for India was updated with special emphasis on the multiplier effects and employment potential of bio-fuels. A ten-year review meeting of the Commission's work conducted in 2004 in collaboration with the World Academy of Art & Science found many of its recommendations still relevant to the present world situation.\n\nSince then the main work of the Commission's report on nuclear disarmament, global governance, employment, social development and human resources have continued as part of the program of work of the World Academy of Art & Science\n\nDr. M. S. Swaminathan, Chairman of ICPF, first recipient of the World Food Prize, former Director General of the International Rice Research Institute, Agriculture Secretary to Government of India, Member of the Indian Planning Commission.\n\nLal Jayawardena, Director, UN World Institute of Development Economic Research; Chief Economic Adviser, President of Sri Lanka; Secretary, Ministry of Finance & Planning, Sri Lanka.\n\nDr. A. T. Ariyaratne, is the founder and President of the internationally reputed people centered movement for Development and Peace in Sri Lanka - The Sarvodaya Shramaana Movement.\n\nRosalynn Carter, Former First Lady Rosalynn Carter is the co-founder of The Carter Center in Atlanta, GA., a nonprofit, nongovernmental organization devoted to improving the quality of life worldwide through programs in democratization and development, global health and urban revitalization.\n\nUmberto Colombo, Minister Gov't of Italy, University and Scientific Technical Research; Chairman, ENEA (Italian National Agency for Atomic and Alternative Energy Sources); Chairman, Italian Atomic Energy Commission\n\nErling Dessau, Resident Representative, UNDP, Myanmar, Bangladesh, India, Somalia; Deputy Resident representative, UNDP, Turkey; Deputy Director, M.I.S., Bureau of Administration, UNDP Headquarters. Board of Directors, Data for Development, France.\n\nGarry Jacobs, Member Secretary ICPF, a US-based management consultant and Assistant Secretary of The Mother's Service Society, a social science research institute in Pondicherry, India.\n\nMary King (political scientist), President, Global Action, Inc., a nonprofit tax exempt organization providing research for international nonprofit and UN agencies on nonviolent peacemaking, international cooperation, and development. Former Senior U. S. government official in the Carter Administration with world-wide responsibility for the Peace Corps and similar domestic national service corps programs. Winner of a 1988 Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Book Award for her book, Freedom Song, about her experiences working in the 1960s American civil rights movement (New York: William Morrow & Co., 1987; Quill paperback, 1988).\n\nDr. Manfred Kulessa, Former Managing Director, German Development Service, and Director, UNDP (including postings as resident representative in Nepal and China). Presently Director, Association of the Churches Development Services, Bonn. Lecturer, University of St. Gallen.\n\nMartin Lees, Director General of the International Committee for Economic Reform and Cooperation, established in 1993 to assist the reform process in the NIS of the Former Soviet Reunion and in Eastern and Central Europe. Responsible for a programme \"China and the World in the Nineties\" and a Member of the \"China Council for the Cooperation on Environment and Development\". Previously Assistant Secretary-General for Science and Technology at the UN after eight years at OECD.\n\nUma Lele, Graduate Research Profeesor, Food Resource & Economics Dept., Univ. of Florida. Director of the Global Development Initiative of the Carnegie Corporation and the Carter Center. Member of the Technical Advisory Committee and the Vision Committee of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR).\n\nRobert Macfarlane, Treasurer of ICPF, a management consultant based in Napa, California and Treasurer of The Mother's Service Society, a social science research institute in Pondicherry, India.\n\nJohn Mellor, President, JMA, Inc.; Director, IFPRI; Chief Economist, United States Agency for International Development.\n\nV. Nazarenko, Director, Research Institute of Information and Technical-Economic Studies of Agro-Industrial Complex, Russia. Member of AScademic of Agriculture, Economics and Informational Sciences.\n\nAlexander Niconov, Director of the Agrarian Institute; President of the Lenin All-Union Academy of Agricultural Sciences (VASKHNIL);Director of Stavropol Agricultural Institute; Minister of Agriculture of Latvia.\n\nAbdus Salam, Former Director of the International Centre for Theoretical Physics (1964–1993). President of ICTP (1994 to present). President of the Third World Academy of Sciences (1983 to present). President of the Third World Network of Scientific Organizations (1988 to Present).\n\nJasjit Singh, Director, IDSA, Retired from the Indian Air Force after a distinguished career, last post held was Director of Operations at Air Headquarters. Was Deputy Director, IDSA for two years and took over as Director, IDSA from July 31, 1987. A distinguished analyst on security affairs. Has authored and edited numerous books and articles on strategic issues. Appointed Member of National Security Advisory Board in 1990. Member of the \"International Commission for a New Asia\".\n\nRobert van Harten, President, Mira International, Netherlands and Senior Research Fellow, The Mother's Service Society, India.\n\nBrian Walker (ecologist), Executive Director, Earthwatch Europe, Emeritus Director General of OXFAM and formerly President of the International Institute for Environment and Development.\n\nEugene Whelan, Member of Canadian Parliament 22 years. Minister of Agriculture for Canada for 12 years. Former president of the World Food Council and was a Member from its inception. Currently Presideht of A.I.D.A.C. (Agricultural International Development Associates of Canada) Inc., a privately owned consulting firm.\n\nTed Williams, Executive Director, Kilby Awards Foundation; Senior Associate, Winrock International; Former Administrator, The World Food Prize;\n\n"}
{"id": "1619046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619046", "title": "Keeper of the Privy Seal of Scotland", "text": "Keeper of the Privy Seal of Scotland\n\nThe office of Keeper of the Privy Seal of Scotland, one of the Great Officers of State, first appears in the reign of David II. After the Act of Union 1707 its holder was normally a peer, like the Keeper of the Great Seal. The office has remained unfilled since the death of Gavin, Marquess of Breadalbane in 1922.\n\nSection 3 of the Public Offices (Scotland) Act 1817 limited the salary for the office to a maximum of £1,200 per annum. The salary was paid out of the fees charged for instruments passing the Privy Seal, after the salary of the Deputy Keeper had been paid.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3236505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236505", "title": "Korean Peasants League", "text": "Korean Peasants League\n\nThe Korean Peasants League (KPL) is a NGO whose members are South Korean farmers.\n\nThe KPL was involved in demonstrations in 2003 MC5 in Cancun, Mexico, and one farmer stabbed himself to death during the protest.\n\nA video interview was conducted with KPL spokesperson [name unclear] after the event. The LA indymedia site hosts this video at https://web.archive.org/web/20060213140915/http://la.indymedia.org/news/2006/02/146152.php and a detailed report at https://web.archive.org/web/20060213140923/http://la.indymedia.org/news/2006/02/146153.php\n\n"}
{"id": "19812904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19812904", "title": "List of white nationalist organizations", "text": "List of white nationalist organizations\n\nThe following is the list of well-known white nationalist organizations, groups and related media:\n\nWhite nationalism is a political ideology which advocates a racial definition of national identity for white people; some white nationalists advocate a separate all-white nation state. White separatism and white supremacism are subgroups within white nationalism. The former seek a separate white nation state, while the latter add ideas from social Darwinism and National Socialism to their ideology. A few white nationalists organizations leaders made a claim that they are mostly separatists, and only a smaller number are supremacists. Both schools of thought generally avoid the term \"supremacy\", saying it has negative connotations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nApart from neo-fascist Grey Wolves and the Turkish ultranationalist Nationalist Movement Party there are some Neo-Nazi organizations in Turkey like the \"Turkish Nazi Party\" or the \"National Socialist Party of Turkey\", mainly based on the internet.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21046145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21046145", "title": "London Democratic Association", "text": "London Democratic Association\n\nThe East London Democratic Association (ELDA) was founded in January 1837 by George Julian Harney in opposition to the LWMA, later supported by James Bronterre O'Brien and Feargus O'Connor. In April 1838 ELDA was reconstituted as the London Democratic Association (LDA) with an eight-point resolution covering the Charter and more. Closely allied with the northern Chartists, by the end of 1838, the LDA had branches meeting in public houses within the City, Tower Hamlets and Southwark in addition to the regular meeting held at the Trades Hall, Bethnal Green.\n\nDuring its active period, the LDA attracted the largest membership of any early metropolitan Chartist organisation (a little over 3,000 members). Prominent members of the LDA included Harney, Charles Neesom and William Cardo.\n\n"}
{"id": "629004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629004", "title": "Massacre at Huế", "text": "Massacre at Huế\n\nThe Huế Massacre (, or , lit. translation: \"Tết Offensive Massacre in Huế\") is the name given to the summary executions and mass killings perpetrated by the Việt Cộng (VC) and People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) during their capture, occupation and later withdrawal from the city of Huế during the Tết Offensive, considered one of the longest and bloodiest battles of the Vietnam War.\n\nThe Battle of Huế began on January 31, 1968, and lasted a total of 26 days. During the months and years that followed, dozens of mass graves were discovered in and around Huế. Victims included women, men, children, and infants. The estimated death toll was between 2,800 and 6,000 civilians and prisoners of war, or 5–10% of the total population of Huế. The Republic of Vietnam released a list of 4,062 victims identified as having been either murdered or abducted. Victims were found bound, tortured, and sometimes buried alive. Many victims were also clubbed to death.\n\nA number of U.S. and South Vietnamese authorities as well a number of journalists who investigated the events took the discoveries, along with other evidence, as proof that a large-scale atrocity had been carried out in and around Huế during its four-week occupation. The killings were perceived as part of a large-scale purge of a whole social stratum, including anyone friendly to American forces in the region. The Massacre at Huế came under increasing press scrutiny later, when press reports alleged that South Vietnamese \"revenge squads\" had also been at work in the aftermath of the battle, searching out and executing citizens that had supported the communist occupation. In 2017, Ben Kiernan described the massacre as \"possibly the largest atrocity of the war.\"\n\nThe Viet Cong set up provisional authorities shortly after capturing Huế in the early hours of January 31, 1968. They were charged with removing the existing government administration from power within the city and replacing it with a \"revolutionary administration.\" Working from lists of \"cruel tyrants and reactionary elements\" previously developed by Viet Cong intelligence officers, many people were to be rounded up following the initial hours of the attack. These included Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN) soldiers, civil servants, political party members, local religious leaders, schoolteachers, American civilians and other international people. Cadres called out the names on their lists over loudspeakers, ordering them to report to a local school. Those not reporting voluntarily were hunted down.\n\nThe communists' actions were based on a series of orders issued by the High Command and the PRG. In a 3500-page document issued on January 26, 1968, by the Trị-Thiên-Huế Political Directorate, the political cadres were given specific instructions: 'Operating in close support of the regular military and guerrilla elements, the political cadre were to: destroy and disorganize the Republic of Viet Nam's (RVN's) administrative machinery \"from province and district levels to the city wards, streets, and wharves;\" motivate the people of Huế to take up arms, pursue the enemy, seize power, and establish a revolutionary government; motivate (recruit) local citizens for military and \"security\" forces .. transportation and supply activities, and to serve wounded soldiers . . . ;\" \"pursue to the end (and) punish spies, reactionaries, and \"tyrants\" and \"maintain order and security in the city\".\n\nAnother section, dealing with Target Area 1 (\"the Phu Ninh ward\") read: \"\"Annihilate all spies, reactionaries, and foreign teachers (such as Americans and Germans) in the area. Break open prisons. Investigate cadre, soldiers and receptive civilians imprisoned by the enemy. Search for tyrants and reactionaries who are receiving treatment in hospitals\" The orders for Target Area 2 (\"the Phu Vinh ward\") were similar; \"Annihilate the enemy in the area...Rally the Buddhist force to advance the isolation of reactionaries who exploit the Catholics of Phu Cam\". The orders for Target Area 3 (\"the wharves along the An Cuu River and from Truong Sung to the Kho Ren Bridge\") followed the same pattern; \"Search for and pursue spies, tyrants and reactionaries hiding near the wharf...Motivate the people in the areas along the River to annihilate the enemy.\" For Target Area 4 (the district including Phu Cam and the Binh Anh, Truong Giang, Truong Cuu and An Lang sections) the orders were; \"Search for and pursue spies and reactionaries in the area...Destroy the power and influence of reactionary leaders...\" For Area 1, Cell 3 was assigned the job of \"Annihilation of tyrants and the elimination of traitors.\"\n\nIn June 1968, American 1st Cavalry troops captured PAVN documents that included a directive written two days before the battle began. It included the following instructions: \"For the purpose of a lengthy occupation of Huế, we should immediately liberate the rural areas and annihilate the wicked GVN administrative personnel.\n\nSpecific Mission ... We must attack the enemy key agencies, economic installations, and lines of communications. We must also annihilate the enemy mobile troops, reactionary elements and tyrants.\"\n\nOn February 1, the provincial administration, having taken control of Huế, issued a directive that ordered the troops, in part, \"To wipe out all puppet administrative organs of the puppet Thiệu-Kỳ (President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu, Vice President Nguyễn Cao Kỳ) clique at all levels in the province, city and town down to every single hamlet.\"\n\nOn the same day, the Liberation Front radio announced, \"We tell our compatriots that we are determined to topple the regime of the traitorous Thiệu-Kỳ clique and to punish and annihilate those who have been massacring and oppressing our compatriots ... we ask our compatriots to ... help us arrest all the U.S.-puppet cruel henchmen.\"\n\nForeign Service Officer Douglas Pike wrote that according to Viet Cong documents captured during and after the siege, members of the provincial administration were to be taken out of the city, held and punished for their \"crimes against the Vietnamese people\". The disposition of those who were previously in control of the city was carefully laid out, and the lists were detailed and extensive. Those in the Saigon-based-state police apparatus at all levels were to be rounded up and held outside the city. High civilian and military officials were also removed from the city, both to await study of their individual cases.\n\nOrdinary civil servants who worked for \"the Saigon enemy\" out of necessity, but did not oppose the communists, were destined for reeducation and later employment. Low-level civil servants who had at some point been involved in paramilitary activities were to be held for reeducation, but not employed. There are documented cases of individuals who were executed by the Viet Cong when they tried to hide or otherwise resisted during the early stages of Huế's occupation.\n\nWithin days of the capture, US Marine Corps (USMC) and US Army as well as ARVN units were dispatched to counterattack and recapture the city after weeks of fierce fighting, during which the city and its outlying areas were exposed to repeated shelling and bombing. It was reported that during the USMC and ARVN attack, North Vietnam's forces had rounded up those individuals whose names it had previously collected and had them executed or sent North for \"reeducation\".\n\nA large number of people had taken sanctuary from the battle in a local church. Several hundred of these people were ordered out to undergo indoctrination in the \"liberated area\" and told afterwards they would be allowed to return home. After marching the group south 9 kilometers, 20 of the people were separated, tried in a kangaroo court, found guilty, executed and buried. The others were taken across the river and turned over to a local Communist unit in an exchange that even included written receipts. Douglas Pike notes that, while \"It is probable that the Commissar intended that their prisoners should be reeducated and returned, but with the turnover, matters passed from his control.\" Sometime within the following several weeks, the communists decided to kill the individuals under their control.\n\nNguyễn Công Minh, daughter of the Deputy Mayor of Huế at the time, reported that her father, who was of old age, was arrested at his home in the beginning of the Communist occupation, 3 days after he ordered his children (incl. Nguyễn Công Minh) and wife to flee via the back of their house when Communist troops first came knocking at their home. Upon telling the troops that he was Deputy Mayor of Huế who was set to retire in one year (1969), he was ordered to report to a camp for reeducation, and pack clothing and food sufficient for 10 days. He was never seen again, nor were his remains recovered. She recalled that in the search of her father's remains, she witnessed that many of the bodies she came across in the mass graves were found to be in a fetal position, with their hands tied behind their backs, and the back of the heads/skulls were smashed, indicating that they knelt on the ground prior to their deaths and they died due to blunt-force trauma to their heads.\n\nIn 1971, journalist Don Oberdorfer's book, \"Tet!,\" documented some eyewitness accounts of what happened in Huế during the PAVN/VC occupation. Pham Van Tuong, a part-time janitor for the Huế government information office who made it on the Viet Cong list of \"reactionaries\" for working there, was hiding with his family as the VC hunted for him. When he was found with his 3-year-old daughter, 5-year-old son and 2 nephews, the Viet Cong immediately gunned them all down, leaving their bodies on the street for the rest of the family to see.\n\nDon Oberdorfer spent five days in late 1969 with Paul Vogle, an American English professor at Huế University, going through Huế interviewing witnesses of the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong occupation. Oberdorfer classified all the killings into two categories: the planned execution of government officials and their families, political and civil servants, and collaborators with Americans; and those civilians not connected to the government who ran from questioning, who spoke harshly about the occupation, or who the occupiers believed \"displayed a bad attitude\" towards the occupiers.\n\nOberdorfer reported that on the 5th day of the Viet Cong occupation in the Catholic district of Huế, Phủ Cam, all able-bodied males over age 15, approximately 400 boys and men, who took refuge in Phủ Cam Cathedral were taken away and killed . Some had been on the VC's blacklist, some were of military age and some just looked prosperous. Oberdorfer interviewed Ho Ty, a VC commander who took part in the advanced planning of a general uprising. He reported that Ty recounted that the Communist party \"was particularly anxious to get those people at Phủ Cam... The Catholics were considered particular enemies of ours.\" It was apparently this group whose remains were later found in the Da Mai Creek bed. The murders of 500 people at Da Mai were authorized by PRG command \"on grounds that the victims had been traitors to the revolution.\"\n\nAn American veteran who was in the Huế area has written an account of his unit's march to the discovery of the bodies at Dai Mai Creek. He corroborates the information that the discovery was predicated on information revealed by three communist defectors who had witnessed the massacre. His unit provided security for the authorities who investigated and recovered the remains, and they were honored by the citizens of Huế for their efforts.\n\nThree professors, Professor Horst-Günther Krainick, Dr. Alois Alteköster, and , who taught at the Huế University's Faculty of Medicine and were members of the West German Cultural Mission, along with Mrs. Elisabeth Krainick, were arrested and executed by North Vietnamese troops during their invasion of Huế in February 1968. On April 5, 1968, the bodies of the executed professors along with many Vietnamese civilians also executed, were discovered in mass graves near Huế.\n\nPhilip W. Manhard, a U.S. senior advisor in Huế province, was taken to a POW camp by the PAVN and held until 1973. Manhard recounted that during the PAVN's withdrawal from Huế, they summarily executed anyone in their custody who resisted being taken out of the city or who was too old, too young, or too frail to make the journey to the camp.\n\nTwo French priests, Fathers Urbain and Guy, were seen being led away and suffered a similar fate. Urbain's body was found buried alive, bound hand and foot. Guy, who was 48, was stripped of his cassock and forced to kneel down on the ground where he was shot in the back of the head. He was in the same grave with Father Urbain and 18 others.\n\nCaptured in the home of Vietnamese friends, American Stephen Miller of the U.S. Information Service was bound and shot in a field behind a Catholic seminary. Courtney Niles, an American civilian working for NBC International, was killed during an attack by communist forces while in the presence of U.S. soldiers.\n\nAlje Vennema, a Dutch-Canadian doctor who lived in Huế and witnessed the battle and the massacre, wrote \"The Viet Cong Massacre at Huế\" in 1976. He recounts numerous stories of murders. A 48-year-old street vendor, Mrs. Nguyen Thi Lao, was \"arrested on the main street. Her body was found at the school. Her arms had been bound and a rag stuffed into her mouth; there were no wounds to the body. She was probably buried alive.\" A 44-year-old bricklayer, Mr. Nguyen Ty, was \"seized on February 2, 1968...His body was found on March 1st; his hands were tied, and he had a bullet wound through his neck which had come out through the mouth.\" At Ap Dong Gi Tay \"110 bodies were uncovered; again most had their hands tied and rags stuffed in their mouth. All of them were men, among them fifteen students, several military men, and civil servants, young and old.\" \"Sometimes a whole family was eliminated, as was the case with the merchant, Mr. Nam Long, who together with his wife and five children was shot at home.\" \"Mr. Phan Van Tuong, a laborer at the province headquarters, suffered a similar fate by being shot outside his house with four of his children.\"\n\nVennema listed 27 graves with a total of 2,397 bodies, most of which had been executed. He cited numerous eyewitness accounts of executions by PAVN and VC troops and described the condition of bodies found in the graves. Many had their hands tied behind their backs. Some were shot in the head. Some had rags stuffed in their mouths and had no evidence of wounds, apparently having been buried alive. Some had evidence of having been beaten. A few were identified as PAVN or VC troops killed during the battle.\n\nSome graves were found purely by accident. A farmer working in his field tripped on a wire sticking out of the ground. He pulled on it to remove it and a skeletal hand popped out of the ground. Other graves were found when people noticed suspiciously green grass in sandy areas. The Da Mai Creek massacre was discovered after three VC defected and told authorities about the murders. An ARVN soldier on patrol south of Huế noticed a wire sticking out of the ground. Thinking it was a booby trap, he very carefully worked to uncover it. He discovered the body of an old man, his hands tied together with the wire. Two days later 130 bodies had been uncovered.\n\nIn another case,\n\n...a squad with a death order entered the home of a prominent community leader and shot him, his wife, his married son and daughter-in-law, his young unmarried daughter, a male and female servant and their baby. The family cat was strangled; the family dog was clubbed to death; the goldfish scooped out of the fishbowl and tossed on the floor. When the Communists left, no life remained in the house.\n\nAn eyewitness, Nguyen Tan Chau, recounted how he was captured by Communist troops and marched south with 29 other prisoners bound together, in three groups of ten. Chau managed to escape and hide in the darkness just before the others were executed. From there he witnessed what happened next.\n\nThe larger prisoners were separated into pairs, tied together back to back and shot. The others were shot singly. All were dumped into two shallow graves, including those who had been wounded but were not dead.\"\n\nCaptured Viet Cong documents boasted that they \"eliminated\" thousands of enemy and \"annihilated members of various reactionary political parties, henchmen, and wicked tyrants\" in Huế. One regiment alone reported that it killed 1,000 people. Another report mentioned 2,867 killed. Yet another document boasted of over 3,000 killed. A further document listed 2,748 executions. A captured Viet Cong enemy document, which numerous writers cited, including Guenter Lewy in his 1980 book \"America in Vietnam\", and Peter Macdonald's 1993 book \"Giap\", recorded that the Communists \"eliminated 1,892 administrative personnel, 38 policemen, 790 tyrants\" – 2720 politically-persecuted persons in all, during the Communist occupation of the city.\n\nThe translation of an official Vietnamese campaign study of the Tet Offensive in Thừa Thiên–Huế province released by the Communists recognized that Viet Cong cadres \"hunted down and captured tyrants and Republic of Vietnam military and government personnel\" and that \"many nests of reactionaries [...] were killed.\" Hundreds of others \"who owed blood debts were executed.\" Another official history from the Communist side, \"The Tri-Thien-Huế Battlefield During the Victorious Resistance War Against the Americans to Save the Nation\", recognized the widespread killings but claimed they were done by civilians who armed themselves and \"rose up in a flood-tide, killing enemy thugs, eliminating traitors, and hunting down the enemy... The people captured and punished many reactionaries, enemy thugs, and enemy secret agents.\" However, the word \"eliminate\" may be a mistranslation of the word \"diet\", and instead actually mean \n\"destroy\" or \"neutralize\" as in neutralizing their administrative function and eliminating of their political influence through detention, as opposed to physical liquidation.\n\nWhen Trương Như Tảng was appointed Viet Cong justice minister soon after Huế, he understood this to be a critical position because the massacre had, \"left us with a special need to address fears among the Southern people that a revolutionary victory would bring with it a bloodbath or reign of terror.\" This was because, \"large numbers of people had been executed\" including \"captured American soldiers and several other international people who were not combatants.\" According to Trạng, \"discipline in Huế was seriously inadequate\" and \"fanatic young soldiers had indiscriminately shot people, and angry local citizens who supported the revolution had on various occasions taken justice into their own hands...\" The massacre was, \"one of those terrible spontaneous tragedies that inevitably accompany war.\"\n\nOn February 4, Radio Hanoi announced, \"After one hour's fighting the Revolutionary Armed Forces occupied the residence of the puppet provincial Governor (in Huế), the prison and the offices of the puppet administration . . . . The Revolutionary Armed Forces punished most cruel agents of the enemy and seized control of the streets . . . rounded up and punished dozens of cruel agents and caused the enemy organs of control and oppression to crumble.\" On Feb 14th, the Thừa Thiên-Huế People's Revolutionary Committee issued a statement that read in part,\n\nConcerned over the country's survival and their own fate, on 31 January 1968, the Thừa Thiên-Huế people rose up holding weapons in their hands, smashed the puppet ruling apparatus from the provincial to the village and hamlet levels, and completely liberated the rural areas and the city of Huế. The enemy has suffered disastrous defeats. A number of ringleaders of the puppet administration have surrendered to the people or have been arrested and have been detained by the revolutionary forces. Except for some localities and scattered guard posts which have not yet been liquidated, the Thừa Thiên-Huế puppet administration has basically disintegrated.\n\nAn entry in a captured communist document dated Feb 22nd stated, \"Troop proselyting by the VC/PAVN forces was not successful because the troops had to devote themselves to combat missions. Moreover, they were afraid of being discovered by the enemy. It was very difficult for them to handle POWs so they executed the policy of \"catch and kill.\" A February 25 captured communist document detailed some of the successes of the Special Action Company of the PAVN 6th Regiment. \"We captured and exterminated thousands of people of the revolutionary network. From province to village we broke the enemy's administrative grip for the people to rise.\"\n\nA report written immediately after the battle by a political officer of the People's Revolutionary Party listed 2,826 \"administrative personnel, nationalist political party members, 'tyrants' and policemen that were killed by their troops.\"\n\nAnother document, undated, written by a senior political officer and marked \"ABSOLUTE SECRET\", entitled \"Information On the Victory of Our Armed Forces in Huế from 31 January to 23 March 1968\" was captured by the US 1st Cavalry Division on April 25, 1968. It reported on the results of the political operation.\n\nWe also killed one member of the Dai Viet Party Committee, one Senator of South Viet-Nam, 50 Quoc Dan Dang party members, six Dai Viet Party members, thirteen Can Lao Nhan Vi Party members, three captains, four 1st lieutenants, and liberated 35 hamlets with 32,000 people...We eliminated 1,892 administrative personnel, 38 policemen, 790 tyrants, six captains, two first lieutenants, 20 second lieutenants, and many NCOs.\n\nThe same document contained a passage that read\n\nThe people joined our soldiers in their search for tyrants, reactionaries and spies. For instance, Mrs. Xuan followed our soldiers to show the houses of the tyrants she knew, although she had only six days before given birth to a child.\n\nIn March 1968, in the official Hanoi press, the North reported,\n\nActively combining their efforts with those of the People's Liberation Armed Forces and population, other self-defense and armed units of the city of Huế arrested and called to surrender the surviving functionaries of the puppet administration and officers and men of the puppet army who were skulking. Die-hard cruel agents were punished.\n\nA March 6 document written by a VC sapper unit commander recounted that his unit \"participated in the killing of tyrants and the digging of trenches\" A March 13, 1968 entry in captured documents reviewed the successes of the attack on Huế. \"Enormous victory: We annihilated more than 3,000 tyrannical puppet army and government administrative personnel, including the Deputy Province Chief of Thừa Thiên.\" A report written by the commander of the 6th Regiment on March 30 stated that they had captured thousands of \"local administrative personnel, puppet troops, and cruel tyrants\" and successfully \"annihilated members of various reactionary political parties, henchmen, and wicked tyrants.\" It also stated that they had \"killed 1,000 local administrative personnel, spies and cruel tyrants.\"\n\nOn April 26, 1968, Hanoi, reacting to the discovery of graves in Huế, announced that the people murdered by their troops were, \"hooligan lackeys who had incurred blood debts of the Huế compatriots and who were annihilated by the Front's Armed Forces in the early spring of 1968.\" On April 27, 1969, Radio Hanoi criticized authorities in Huế and South Vietnam, stating,\n\nIn order to cover up their cruel acts, the puppet administration in Huế recently played the farce of setting up a so-called committee for the search for burial sites of the hooligan lackeys who had owed blood debts to the Tri-Thien-Huế compatriots and who were annihilated by the Southern Armed Forces and people in early Mau Than spring.\n\nA cadre diary captured by 1st Cavalry Division troops contained an entry that read:\n\nThe entire puppet administrative system from hamlet to province was destroyed or disintegrated. More than 3,000 persons were killed. The enemy could never reorganize or make up for his failure. Although he could immediately use inexperienced elements as replacements, they were good for nothing.\n\nIn December 1968 the Huế City People's Revolutionary Party Central Committee released a summary of the Party's accomplishments during Tet. The summary included the following statement: \"Thousands of tyrants were killed. Many reactionary factions and organizations were exterminated.\"\n\nThat same month, Don Oberdorfer reported,\n\nHo Ty was arrested by the government police on Sept. 4 this year. At the time of his arrest, he was party secretary for a section of Huế city...Ho Ty reported that the part of the plan from higher headquarters was to destroy the government machinery of Huế and the people who made it work...He said the killings were planned and executed by a separate group in charge of security.\n\nIn 1987, at a Hanoi conference to discuss the history of the Tet offensive, Colonel General Tran Van Quang, one of the commanders of the Huế operation, assessed the strengths and weaknesses of his forces, citing as one of their strengths:\n\nWe resolutely carried out the orders and fulfilled the requirements set out for us by the High Command. We motivated our cadre, soldiers, and the civilian population through the use of the slogans, 'Tri-Thien fights for Tri-Thien and for the entire nation,' and 'Heroically and resolutely conduct attacks and uprisings.'\n\nIn February 1988 Vietnamese Communist leaders admitted \"mistakes\" were made in Huế. Col Nguyen Quoc Khanh, commander of part of the forces that took over Huế stated that \"There was no case of killing civilians purposefully...Those civilians who were killed were killed accidentally, in cross fire.\" But he admitted \"some rank and file soldiers may have committed individual mistakes.\" However, in an internal document discussing the 1968 Tet offensive in Hue, General (Tổng) Hồ Trung wrote, referring to the Giá Hơi section, that \"These forces hunted down and killed enemy thugs, reactionaries, and puppet policemen\" and that they \"cleaned out...nests of Catholic reactionaries.\"\n\nA first summary was published for the U.S. Mission in Vietnam by Douglas Pike, then working as a Foreign Service Officer for the U.S. Information Agency in 1970. Pike identified three distinct phases for the executions in Huế. In a report published in 1970, \"The Viet Cong Strategy of Terror\", the U.S. Information Agency analyst Douglas Pike wrote that at least half of the bodies unearthed in Huế revealed clear evidence of \"atrocity killings: to include hands wired behind backs, rags stuffed in mouths, bodies contorted but without wounds (indicating burial alive).\" Pike concluded that the killings were done by local VC cadres and were the result of \"a decision rational and justifiable in the Communist mind.\". The three phases are as follows:\n\n\nAfter the Battle of Huế, between 1968 and 1969 a total of almost 2,800 bodies were recovered from mass graves, with 4 major mass grave finds.\n\nIn Bùi Tín's 2002 memoir, \"From Enemy to Friend: a North Vietnamese perspective on the war\", the former PAVN Colonel acknowledged that executions of civilians did occur in Huế. However, he added that under the intensity of the American bombardment, discipline of the troops disintegrated. The \"units from the north\" had been \"told that Huế was the stronghold of feudalism, a bed of reactionaries, the breeding ground of Cần Lao Party loyalists who remained true to the memory of former South Vietnamese president Ngô Đình Diệm and of Nguyễn Văn Thiệu's Democracy Party.\" Tin explained that over 10,000 prisoners were taken at Huế, with the most important of them sent to North Vietnam for imprisonment. When U.S. Marines launched their counterattack to retake the city, Communist troops were instructed to move the prisoners with the retreating troops. According to Tín, in the \"panic of retreat,\" the company and battalion commanders shot their prisoners \"to ensure the safety of the retreat.\"\n\nMarilyn B. Young disputes the \"official figures\" of executions at Huế. While acknowledging that there were executions, she cites freelance journalist Len Ackland, who was at Huế, who estimated the number to be somewhere between 300 and 400.\n\nNgo Vinh Long claims that 710 people were killed by the communists. In an interview he stated, \"Yeah, there was a total of 710 persons killed in the Huế area, from my research, not as many as five thousand, six thousand, or whatever the Americans claimed at that time, and not as few as four hundred as people like some of the people in the peace movement here claim...\"\n\nThe Italian journalist Oriana Fallaci reported that \"In the last few days the Vietcong lost their heads and did nothing but make reprisals, kill, punish\". But citing a French priest she spoke to in Huế, she also claimed that the death toll of up to 8,000 included deaths due to American bombardment, and at least 200 people, and perhaps as many as 1,100, who were killed following the liberation of Huế by the US and ARVN forces. Stanley Karnow wrote that the bodies of those executed by South Vietnamese teams were thrown into common graves. Some reports alleged that South Vietnamese \"revenge squads\" had also been at work in the aftermath of the battle, searching out and executing citizens that had supported the communist occupation.\n\nHistorian David Hunt posited that Douglas Pike's study for the U.S. Mission was, \"by any definition, a work of propaganda\". In 1988 Pike said that he had earlier been engaged in a conscious \"effort to discredit the Vietcong\".\n\nIn a letter to the editor of the \"New York Times\", historian Gareth Porter stated that there was little evidence that the Communists carried out more than \"several hundred\" political executions and revenge killings in Huế, with only U.S. official assertions identifying all of over 2,800 bodies found as \"victims of Communist executions\". He alleged that the site of one set of mass graves was also the site of a major battle in which some 250 Communist troops were reported killed in U.S air strikes, and that Saigon's minister of health, after visiting burial sites, said the bodies could have been Communist soldiers killed in battle. He dismissed Douglas Pike's claim that there were Communist blacklists of students and intellectuals to be killed as unsupported by interviews and captured Communist documents.\n\nHistorian James Willbanks concluded that \"We may never know what really happened at Huế, but it is clear that mass executions did occur\". According to Stanley Karnow, \"Balanced accounts have made it clear, however, that the Communist butchery at Huế did take place—perhaps on an even larger scale than reported during the war.\" Ben Kiernan's 2017 history of Vietnam acknowledges that \"thousands\" were killed at Huế in \"possibly the largest atrocity of the war.\"\n\nReports of the Massacre had a profound impact on the South Vietnamese for many years after the Tet Offensive, with an anticipation of a bloodbath following any North Vietnamese takeover, like the one in Huế. Novelist James Jones, in a \"New York Times\" article wrote, \"Whatever else they accomplished, the Huế massacres effectively turned the bulk of the South Vietnamese against the Northern Communists. In South Vietnam, wherever one went, from Can Tho in the delta to Tay Ninh to Kontum in the north, and of course in Huế, the 1968 Tet massacres were still being talked about in 1973.\"\n\nAnticipation of a bloodbath was a major factor in the widespread panic and chaos across South Vietnam when North Vietnam executed their 1975 Spring Offensive, and the panic culminated in the disintegration and defeat of South Vietnamese military forces, and the fall of the Republic of Vietnam on April 30, 1975. Today, the Massacre remains unrecognized and entirely ignored in the Vietnamese communist government's War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City. The Vietnamese Government still doesn't acknowledge that a massacre took place and does not allow any public dissent from this position.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371050", "title": "Medicalization", "text": "Medicalization\n\nMedicalization or medicalisation (see spelling differences) is the process by which human conditions and problems come to be defined and treated as medical conditions, and thus become the subject of medical study, diagnosis, prevention, or treatment. Medicalization can be driven by new evidence or hypotheses about conditions; by changing social attitudes or economic considerations; or by the development of new medications or treatments.\n\nMedicalization is studied from a sociologic perspective in terms of the role and power of professionals, patients, and corporations, and also for its implications for ordinary people whose self-identity and life decisions may depend on the prevailing concepts of health and illness. Once a condition is classified as medical, a medical model of disability tends to be used in place of a social model. Medicalization may also be termed \"pathologization\" or (pejoratively) \"disease mongering\". Since medicalization is the social process through which a condition becomes a medical disease in need of treatment, medicalization may be viewed as a benefit to human society. Upon identification of a condition as a disease, certain symptoms and conditions can be treated, and this will improve the overall quality of life.\n\nThe concept of medicalization was devised by sociologists to explain how medical knowledge is applied to behaviors which are not self-evidently medical or biological. The term \"medicalization\" entered the sociology literature in the 1970s in the works of Irving Zola, Peter Conrad and Thomas Szasz, among others. According to Dr. Cassell's book, \"The Nature of Suffering and the Goals of Medicine (2004),\" the expansion of medical social control is being justified as a means of explaining deviance. These sociologists viewed medicalization as a form of social control in which medical authority expanded into domains of everyday existence, and they rejected medicalization in the name of liberation. This critique was embodied in works such as Conrad's \"The discovery of hyperkinesis: notes on medicalization of deviance\", published in 1973 (hyperkinesis was the term then used to describe what we might now call ADHD). Nevertheless, opium was used to pacify children in ancient Egypt before 2000 BC.\n\nThese sociologists did not believe medicalization to be a new phenomenon, arguing that medical authorities had always been concerned with social behavior and traditionally functioned as agents of social control (Foucault, 1965; Szasz,1970; Rosen). However, these authors took the view that increasingly sophisticated technology had extended the potential reach of medicalization as a form of social control, especially in terms of \"psychotechnology\" (Chorover,1973).\n\nIn the 1975 book \"Limits to medicine: Medical nemesis\" (1975), Ivan Illich put forth one of the earliest uses of the term \"medicalization\". Illich, a philosopher, argued that the medical profession harms people through iatrogenesis, a process in which illness and social problems increase due to medical intervention. Illich saw iatrogenesis occurring on three levels: the \"clinical\", involving serious side effects worse than the original condition; the \"social\", whereby the general public is made docile and reliant on the medical profession to cope with life in their society; and the \"structural\", whereby the idea of aging and dying as medical illnesses effectively \"medicalized\" human life and left individuals and societies less able to deal with these \"natural\" processes.\n\nThe concept of medicalization dovetailed with some aspects of the 1970s feminist movement. Critics such as Ehrenreich and English (1978) argued that women's bodies were being medicalized by the predominantly male medical profession. Menstruation and pregnancy had come to be seen as medical problems requiring interventions such as hysterectomies.\n\nMarxists such as Vicente Navarro (1980) linked medicalization to an oppressive capitalist society. They argued that medicine disguised the underlying causes of disease, such as social inequality and poverty, and instead presented health as an individual issue. Others examined the power and prestige of the medical profession, including the use of terminology to mystify and of professional rules to exclude or subordinate others.\n\nTiago Correia (2017) offers an alternative perspective on medicalization. He argues that medicalization needs to be detached from biomedicine to overcome much of the criticism it has faced, and to protect its value in contemporary sociological debates. Building on Gadamer's hermeneutical view of medicine, he focuses on medicine's common traits, regardless of empirical differences in both time and space. Medicalization and social control are viewed as distinct analytical dimensions that in practice may or may not overlap. Correia contends that the idea of \"making things medical\" needs to include all forms of medical knowledge in a global society, not simply those forms linked to the established (bio)medical professions. Looking at \"knowledge\", beyond the confines of professional boundaries, may help us understand the multiplicity of ways in which medicalization can exist in different times and societies, and allow contemporary societies to avoid such pitfalls as \"demedicalization\" (through a turn towards complementary and alternative medicine) on the one hand, or the over-rapid and unregulated adoption of biomedical medicine in non-western societies on the other. The challenge is to determine what medical knowledge is present, and how it is being used to medicalize behaviors and symptoms.\n\nSeveral decades on the definition of medicalization is complicated, if for no other reason than because the term is so widely used. Many contemporary critics position pharmaceutical companies in the space once held by doctors as the supposed catalysts of medicalization. Titles such as \"The making of a disease\" or \"Sex, drugs, and marketing\" critique the pharmaceutical industry for shunting everyday problems into the domain of professional biomedicine. At the same time, others reject as implausible any suggestion that society rejects drugs or drug companies and highlight that the same drugs that are allegedly used to treat deviances from societal norms also help many people live their lives. Even scholars who critique the societal implications of brand-name drugs generally remain open to these drugs' curative effects — a far cry from earlier calls for a revolution against the biomedical establishment. The emphasis in many quarters has come to be on \"overmedicalization\" rather than \"medicalization\" in itself.\n\nOthers, however, argue that in practice the process of medicalization tends to strip subjects of their social context, so they come to be understood in terms of the prevailing biomedical ideology, resulting in a disregard for overarching social causes such as unequal distribution of power and resources. A series of publications by Mens Sana Monographs have focused on medicine as a corporate capitalist enterprise.\n\nThe physician's role in this present-day notion of medicalization is similarly complex. On the one hand, the doctor remains an authority figure who prescribes pharmaceuticals to patients. However, in some countries, such as the USA, ubiquitous direct-to-consumer advertising encourages patients to ask for particular drugs by name, thereby creating a conversation between consumer and drug company that threatens to cut the doctor out of the loop. Additionally, there is a widespread concern regarding the extent of the pharmaceutical marketing direct to doctors and other healthcare professionals. Examples of this direct marketing are visits by salespeople, funding of journals, training courses or conferences, incentives for prescribing, and the routine provision of \"information\" written by the pharmaceutical company.\n\nThe role of patients in this economy has also changed. Once regarded as passive victims of medicalization, patients can now occupy active positions as advocates, consumers, or even agents of change.\n\nThe antithesis of medicalization is the process of paramedicalization, where human conditions come under the attention of alternative medicine, traditional medicine or any of numerous non-medical health approaches. Medicalization and paramedicalization can sometimes be contradictory and conflicting, but they also support and strengthen each other since they both ensure that questions of health and illness stay in sharp focus in defining human conditions and problems.\n\nA 2002 editorial in the \"British Medical Journal\" warned of inappropriate medicalization leading to disease mongering, where the boundaries of the definition of illnesses are expanded to include personal problems as medical problems or risks of diseases are emphasized to broaden the market for medications. The authors noted:\n\nInappropriate medicalisation carries the dangers of unnecessary labelling, poor treatment decisions, iatrogenic illness, and economic waste, as well as the opportunity costs that result when resources are diverted away from treating or preventing more serious disease. At a deeper level it may help to feed unhealthy obsessions with health, obscure or mystify sociological or political explanations for health problems, and focus undue attention on pharmacological, individualised, or privatised solutions. \nFor many years, marginalized psychiatrists (such as Peter Breggin, Paula Caplan, Thomas Szasz) and outside critics (such as Stuart A. Kirk) have \"been accusing psychiatry of engaging in the systematic medicalization of normality\". More recently these concerns have come from insiders who have worked for and promoted the American Psychiatric Association (e.g., Robert Spitzer, Allen Frances).\n\nBenjamin Rush, the father of American psychiatry, claimed that Black people had black skin because they were ill with hereditary leprosy. Consequently, he considered vitiligo as a \"spontaneous cure\".\n\nAccording to Franco Basaglia and his followers, whose approach pointed out the role of psychiatric institutions in the control and medicalization of deviant behaviors and social problems, psychiatry is used as the provider of scientific support for social control to the existing establishment, and the ensuing standards of deviance and normality brought about repressive views of discrete social groups. As scholars have long argued, governmental and medical institutions code menaces to authority as mental diseases during political disturbances.\n\nThe HIV/AIDS pandemic allegedly caused from the 1980s a \"profound re-medicalization of sexuality\". The diagnosis of premenstrual dysphoric disorder has caused some controversy, and psychologist Peggy Kleinplatz has criticized the diagnosis as the medicalization of normal human behavior, that occurred while fluoxetine (also known as Prozac) was being repackaged as a PMDD therapy under the trade named Sarafem. Although it has received less attention, it is claimed that masculinity has also faced medicalization, being deemed damaging to health and requiring regulation or enhancement through drugs, technologies or therapy.\n\nAccording to Kittrie, a number of phenomena considered \"deviant\", such as alcoholism, drug addiction, prostitution, pedophilia, and masturbation (\"self-abuse\"), were originally considered as moral, then legal, and now medical problems. Innumerable other conditions such as obesity, smoking cigarettes, draft malingering, bachelorhood, divorce, unwanted pregnancy, kleptomania, and grief, have been declared a disease by medical and psychiatric authorities who hold impeccable institutional credentials. Due to these perceptions, peculiar deviants were subjected to moral, then legal, and now medical modes of social control. Similarly, Conrad and Schneider concluded their review of the medicalization of deviance by identifying three major paradigms that have reigned over deviance designations in different historical periods: deviance as sin; deviance as crime; and deviance as sickness.\n\nAccording to Mike Fitzpatrick, resistance to medicalization was a common theme of the gay liberation, anti-psychiatry, and feminist movements of the 1970s, but now there is actually no resistance to the advance of government intrusion in lifestyle if it is thought to be justified in terms of public health. Moreover, the pressure for medicalization also comes from society itself. Feminists, who once opposed state intervention as oppressive and patriarchal, now demand more coercive and intrusive measures to deal with child abuse and domestic violence.\n\nAccording to Thomas Szasz, \"the therapeutic state swallows up everything human on the seemingly rational ground that nothing falls outside the province of health and medicine, just as the theological state had swallowed up everything human on the perfectly rational ground that nothing falls outside the province of God and religion\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36657079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36657079", "title": "Military funerals in the United States", "text": "Military funerals in the United States\n\nA military funeral in the United States is a memorial or burial rite given by the U.S. military for a Soldier, Marine, Sailor, Coast Guardsman, or Airman who died in battle, a veteran, or other prominent military figures or a president. A military funeral may feature guards of honor, the firing of volley shots as a salute, drumming and other military elements, with a flag draping over the coffin.\n\nIn the United States, the United States Army Military District of Washington (MDW) is responsible for providing military funerals. \"Honoring Those Who Served\" is the title of the program for instituting a dignified military funeral with full honors to the nation's veterans.\n\nAs of January 1, 2000, Section 578 of Public Law 106-65 of the National Defense Authorization Act mandates that the United States Armed Forces shall provide the rendering of honors in a military funeral for any eligible veteran if requested by his or her family. As mandated by federal law, an honor guard detail for the burial of an eligible veteran shall consist of no fewer than two members of the Armed Forces. One member of the detail shall be a representative of the parent armed service of the deceased veteran. The honor guard detail will, at a minimum, perform a ceremony that includes the folding and presenting of the flag of the United States to the next of kin and the playing of \"Taps\" which will be played by a lone bugler, if available, or by audio recording. Today, there are so few buglers available that the United States Armed Forces often cannot provide one. However, federal law allows Reserve and National Guard units to assist with funeral honors duty when necessary.\n\nGenerally, federal law allows for military funeral honors for all veterans who were discharged under circumstances \"other than dishonorable.\" Funeral directors will require the veteran's DD Form 214 to establish eligibility.\n\nThose who are eligible for military funerals and full honors in the United States include the following:\n\nIn the United States, there are several types of military funerals such as those performed at Arlington National Cemetery, which include and omit certain components depending on the status of the deceased (active, retired, veteran, rank/occupation).\n\nStandard honor military funerals include the following:\n\nFull honor military funerals include all standard honors in addition to the following:\n\nArmed forces military funerals include all standard and full honors in addition to the following:\n\n\nWhen a spouse or other dependent of a current or former member of the United States Armed Forces is buried, the military service in which the primary party served will provide a casket team and a chaplain. No other military honors will be rendered unless the spouse served in the military.\nThe flag of the United States draped over the casket is meticulously folded thirteen times by a total of six honor guards, three on each side of the casket. When the flag is completely folded, the stars point upwards, which remind Americans of their national motto, \"In God We Trust\". After the flag is completely folded and tucked in, it takes on the appearance of a tricorne hat, reminding Americans of the soldiers who served under General George Washington, and the sailors and Marines who served under Captain John Paul Jones, who were followed by their comrades and shipmates in the United States Armed Forces.\n\nAn honor guard composed of one or more branches of the United States Armed Forces, presents the flag to the next of kin. The presenter, if possible a member of the same service as the deceased, will lean forward while presenting the folded flag, with the straight edge of the flag facing the recipient. The presenter then recites the following wording, which was standardized on April 20, 2012:\n\nThree spent shell-casings, each representing one of three volleys, were sometimes slipped into the folds of the flag before its presentation to the next of kin. The intention was to convey that the presence of the shell-casings proved that a rifle volley had taken place in connection with the members funeral. However, this practice has become infrequent and is rarely seen today as Title 4, Section 8(h) of the United States Code specifies that the flag should not be used as a receptacle for holding anything.\n\nA \"ramp ceremony\" is a memorial ceremony, not an actual funeral, for a soldier killed in a war zone held at an airfield near or in a location where an airplane is waiting nearby to take the deceased's remains to his or her home country. The term has been in use since about 2005 and became common during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2142701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2142701", "title": "Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport (Ontario)", "text": "Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport (Ontario)\n\nThe Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport in the Canadian province of Ontario was responsible for the promotion of healthy living and disease prevention in the province. Between 2005 and July 2010, the organization's name was the Ministry of Health Promotion.\n\nThe ministry was created in 2005 by the government of Dalton McGuinty. The first Minister of Health Promotion was Jim Watson; the second and last minister was Margarett Best.\n\nFollowing the 2011 Ontario general election, the ministry was merged into the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care.\n\nThe EatRight Ontario service was launched in 2007. It is funded by the Ontario Ministry of Health Promotion and Sport, and is operated by Dietitians of Canada.\nIt was created to support the Healthy Eating Active Living Strategy of providing residents of Ontario with trusted healthy eating advice from Registered Dietitians. Healthy eating is a key factor in wellness, and prevention of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, obesity, heart disease and cancer.\nThere are three easy ways to reach a Registered Dietitian at EatRight Ontario:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34959001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34959001", "title": "Ministry of Information and Culture (Afghanistan)", "text": "Ministry of Information and Culture (Afghanistan)\n\nThe Afghan Ministry of Information and Culture is the Afghan Government Ministry in charge of Culture, Tourism, Publishing Affairs and Youth Affairs. The ministry is currently led by Abdul Bari Jahani.\n\n"}
{"id": "2710869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2710869", "title": "Nairobi Agreement, 1985", "text": "Nairobi Agreement, 1985\n\nThe Nairobi Agreement was a peace deal between the Ugandan government of Tito Okello and the National Resistance Army (NRA) rebel group led by Yoweri Museveni. The accords were signed in Nairobi, Kenya in December 1985.\n\nOn July 27, 1985, an army brigade of the Ugandan army (UNLA), commanded by Brigadier Bazilio Olara-Okello, staged a coup d'état against Milton Obote's government. The National Assembly was dissolved and a Military Council was established to rule the country, first with Olara Okello, and later General Tito Okello as Chairman. Meanwhile, Yoweri Museveni's NRA rebels were gaining ground, having taken advantage of the chaotic situation in the country, caused by power struggles within the government and a demoralized and disintegrating UNLA. \n\nTito Okello immediately and publicly invited all parties to the violence in Uganda to join in national reconciliation and nation building. All the major armed groups accepted this invitation, with the exception of the National Resistance Movement (NRM), the political wing of the National Resistance Army (NRA). President Julius Nyerere of Tanzania was approached by Tito Okello to facilitate a negotiated agreement between the NRM/A and the Military Council. Museveni and the NRM failed to turn up to the first round of talks in Dar es Salaam, as they were possibly suspicious of Nyerere's friendship with the ousted president, Milton Obote. Alternative arrangements were made for discussions presided over by a mutually acceptable Kenyan delegation headed by President Daniel arap Moi.\n\nThe arduous negotiations continued from 26 August to 17 December and have been documented by the then Permanent Secretary in the Kenyan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bethuel Kiplagat. Museveni and the NRM/A were angry that the revolution for which they had fought for four years had been 'hijacked' by the UNLA, which they viewed as having been discredited by gross human rights violations during the second regime of Milton Obote, commonly referred to as 'Obote II'. The talks occasionally degenerated into slanging matches. Museveni denounced previous Ugandan regimes as \"primitives\" and \"backward\", initially refusing to negotiate with the \"criminal\" Military Council. Museveni and the NRM adopted a mercurial negotiating position, changing their demands and reintroducing supposedly resolved issues, leading Okello's team to accuse the NRM of prolonging the discussions unnecessarily. On one occasion, Museveni disappeared to Europe for three days, tabling new demands on his return. Both groups charged each other with maintaining links with soldiers loyal to the former president Idi Amin.\n\nThe final agreement, signed in Nairobi, called for a ceasefire, demilitarisation of Kampala, integration of the NRA and government forces, and absorption of the NRA leadership into the Military Council. These conditions were never met, however, and the ceasefire broke down almost immediately. Article 17(c) of the agreement called for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into human rights violations in Uganda since independence. This provided a clear disincentive for the UNLA to implement the peace plan, as it was likely that many of its leaders would be implicated in the abuses that had occurred during Obote II. The UNLA was also dismayed by article 7, which prescribed a national army numbering less than 8,500 troops with consequent unemployment for a large percentage of its 15,000 men.\n\nThe prospects of a lasting agreement were damaged further by the immediate context of the negotiations. The Kenyan team lacked an in depth knowledge of the situation in Uganda, the key personalities involved and their views, failing to build a meaningful relationship with the parties to the conflict. The negotiations excluded relevant Ugandan organisations, including the political parties. Several external actors, Libya, Burundi and Rwanda, had direct interests in the outcome of the talks, supporting one or several factions. The presence of these parties and possibly neutral international partners (such as the UN or OAU) may have prevented the failure of what cynics called the \"Nairobi peace jokes\".\n\nWhether Museveni and the NRM/A were ever interested in a negotiated agreement is open to question. There was certainly no unequivocal commitment to such a settlement. Museveni and his allies refused to share power with generals they did not respect, not least while the NRA had the capacity to achieve an outright military victory. It is possible that the NRM/A merely used the four-month negotiations to present a positive image to the world and reorganise their forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "28066454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28066454", "title": "National Defense Corps incident", "text": "National Defense Corps incident\n\nThe National Defense Corps Incident (, Hanja: 國民防衛軍事件) was a death march that occurred in the winter of 1951 during the Korean War.\n\nOn 11 December 1950, South Korea issued an act establishing the National Defense Corps. South Korean citizens aged 17 to 40, excluding military, police and government officials, were drafted into the National Defense Corps. The Syngman Rhee government adopted officers from Great Korean Youth Association (대한청년단; 大韓靑年團), which was a pro-Rhee Syngman group, into the Corps.\n\nImmediately, 406,000 drafted citizens were deployed in 49 training units, then National Defense Corps soldiers were ordered to march southward on the Korean peninsula under the Chinese offensive. However, funds for food purchases were embezzled by the National Defense Corps Commander Kim Yungun (Kim Yun-keun) (Kim Yoon-keun), son-in-law of Defence minister Shin Sung-mo. Approximately 300,000 men were lost to death or desertion during the three-week, 300-mile \"death march\". By June 1951, when an investigating committee made known its findings, it was reported that some 50,000 to 90,000 soldiers starved to death or died of disease on the march and in the training camps.\n\nOn 30 April 1951, the National Assembly of South Korea adopted a resolution on disbandment of the National Defense Corps. The National Assembly investigation showed that the commanding officers embezzled one billion won, and tens of millions of won was misappropriated to President Rhee Syngman's political fund. \n\nIn May 1951, vice-president Yi Si-yeong resigned. In June, it was reported that five billion won in funds for the National Defense Corps had been embezzled. On 12 August 1951, five commanding officers were executed as persons in charge of the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "3021176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3021176", "title": "Nebraskans For Peace", "text": "Nebraskans For Peace\n\nNebraskans For Peace, or NFP, is a peace advocacy organization based in Lincoln, Nebraska, United States. \"Nebraskans for Peace is a statewide grassroots advocacy organization working nonviolently for peace with justice through community building, education and political action.\"\n\nFounded in 1970, NFP is a statewide progressive organization conducting active grassroots campaigns focused on promoting peace and social justice. NFP was preceded by Rural Nebraskans for Peace, formed in 1968, and a short-lived University of Nebraska-Lincoln student group called Nebraskans for Peace in Vietnam, formed in 1966. A chapter has existed at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln since at least 2002 and a chapter at the University of Nebraska-Omaha was founded in 2003.\n\nNFP has been campaigning the Nebraska State Legislature to make the community of Whiteclay officially \"dry\" so that local businesses can no longer sell alcohol to Native Americans on the neighboring Pine Ridge Reservation in South Dakota. They allied with reservation members on this issue, marching together in 1999 after two murders of Lakota men in Whiteclay.\n\nIn 2005 President Cecilia Fire Thunder of the Oglala Sioux Tribe and the Nebraska governor's office made an historic agreement to deputize tribal police to enforce laws in Whiteclay, as Nebraska law enforcement was based 22 miles away in the county seat. Fire Thunder was impeached in 2006 based on other issues. According to Mark Vasina, a Nebraska activist interviewed in 2007, internal tribal politics appeared to interfere with the tribe's proceeding to implement the agreement. By mid-2007 the OST had hired no police personnel and made no commitments of funds; it lost the federal earmarked funds of $200,000. Mark Vasina, former president of Nebraskans for Peace, released his documentary \"The Battle for Whiteclay\" in 2008, showing the work of tribal activists to end beer sales at Whiteclay. In 2009 it won an award for Political Documentaries at a New York film festival. In December 2010, the Nebraska legislature authorized $10,000 for increased police patrols in Whiteclay.\n\nNebraksans for Peace has also worked in anti-war campaigns, ranging from weekly vigils against the Iraq war at the State Capitol Building in Lincoln to peaceful protests at the Offutt Air Force Base in Omaha to commemorate and protest the dropping of nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. They continue addressing this issue, with recent protests against a STRATCOM conference called \"Strategic Space and Defense\" held in Omaha.\n\nNebraskans For Peace has worked against Nebraska Legislative Bill 775, legislation that exempts certain businesses from specific taxations as an incentive to draw more businesses to the state. NFP's position against LB775 is based on the amount of public funds being diverted from the state's coffers while businesses qualifying for the exemption program are waived millions of dollars in taxes.\n\nNFP sponsored the summer 2007 \"Taking a Stand for Nonviolent Global Solutions\" march across the United States. It was prominent in the recent debate over the sudden retirement of Lincoln East High School teacher named Michael Baker, who was suspected of being forced into retirement because of a peace studies course he taught.\n\nIn 2007 the ACLU was investigating allegations that the FBI was spying on a number of current Nebraskans for Peace leaders, including Nan Graf, a board member, and Tim Rinne, the State Coordinator.\n\nFrom the start of the Gulf War to the current Iraq War, NFP has been engaged in a variety of anti-war coordination, including the United for Peace and Justice National Strategy Conference.\n\nNebraskans for Peace has joined several national campaigns, including the \"Campaign for Declassification of Documents on Human Rights Abuses in Latin America\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20358998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20358998", "title": "People's Movement (Ireland)", "text": "People's Movement (Ireland)\n\nPeople's Movement () is an Irish pressure group which campaigns on a number of issues such as protecting Irish neutrality and against greater European Union integration. The movement has also campaigned against the war on Iraq and the use of Shannon Airport by the US military. \n\nThe Peoples Movement is sponsored by a number of public figures - artist Robert Ballagh, former TD Alderman Declan Bree, former MEP Patricia McKenna, Cllr Chris O'Leary, Bronwen Maher, Thomas Pringle TD, Cllr Cieran Perry, Catherine Connolly TD, Irish-language broadcaster and independent councillor Cllr. Seósamh Ó Cuaig\nand Prof. John Maguire. The late Tony Gregory TD was also a patron.\n\nThe group actively campaigned against the constitutional amendment to ratify the (Treaty of Lisbon) stating that it would increase Ireland involvement in military commitments of the EU, compromise worker's rights and reduce the accountability and power of the national parliament of Ireland. \n\nThe People's Movement made submissions to the National Forum on Europe setup in the aftermath of the rejection of the Lisbon Treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "5388932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5388932", "title": "Pledge to Africa Act", "text": "Pledge to Africa Act\n\nThe Jean Chrétien Pledge to Africa Act, full title An Act to amend the Patent Act and the Food and Drugs Act (The Jean Chrétien Pledge to Africa), (the \"Act\") a key piece of legislation implementing Canada's Access to Medicines Regime, was a bill introduced as C-9 in the third session of the 37th Canadian Parliament. It represented the first implementation of the TRIPS flexibilities declared in the August 30, 2003, General Council decision. Enacted in May 2004, it allows Canada to enact compulsory licenses to export essential medicines to countries without the capacity to manufacture their own. Other countries that have since enacted similar legislation include Norway and India.\n\nThe purpose of the \"Act\" is to improve access to drugs for developing countries that lack the resources to manufacture the drugs and cannot afford to buy them at the usual market cost. The drugs that fight these diseases are expensive to create and manufacture and thus are usually unaffordable for those who need them the most.\n\nThe \"Pledge to Africa Act\" allows for the patents on these drugs to be overridden so that manufacturers can produce generic versions of the drug to sell in underdeveloped countries.\n\nSome questions have been raised concerning the \"Act\"'s efficacy, or lack thereof, at increasing the availability of pharmaceuticals in poor nations.<ref name=\"The Jean Chrétien Pledge to Africa Act and its Impact on Improving Access to HIV/AIDS Treatment in Developing Countries\"></ref> It took a full year from the time the bill was introduced to the time that it came into effect. Since the \"Act\" came into effect in 2005, only one drug has been manufactured and exported under the act. It has been suggested that this is because restrictions incorporated into the \"Act\" make it too difficult for generic drug companies to get permission to produce a generic and to export it to countries in need. The process for obtaining patent exemptions under the \"Act\" is quite costly, and the exemption must be renewed every two years. As such, it may not be economically viable for generic drug makers to apply for an exemption, or even if it is, the expense and mandated frequent renewals may tend to discourage generic makers from applying. Additionally, exporting pharmaceuticals under the \"Act\" to countries that are not part of the World Trade Organization's TRIPS agreement is made more difficult by further restrictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47571322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47571322", "title": "Querimonia", "text": "Querimonia\n\nThe Querimonia () is a legal document written in Latin that details the political and administrative autonomy granted to the Aran Valley (Catalonia, Spain) by James II of Aragon in 1313. The valley maintained a special status until 1834 when the queen regent María Cristina forced the integration of the valley with the province of Lleida. In 1990, the Aranese once again achieved a measure of autonomy when the autonomous community of Catalonia devolved power to the local government, giving them control over education, sanitation, culture, environment, agriculture and tourism.\n\nThe querimonia confirmed and ceded the following rights to the Aranese:\n"}
{"id": "1160864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160864", "title": "Samuel Oppenheimer", "text": "Samuel Oppenheimer\n\nSamuel Oppenheimer (born June 21, 1630, Heidelberg – May 3, 1703, Vienna) was a Ashkenazi Jewish banker, imperial court diplomat, factor, and military supplier for the Holy Roman Emperor. He enjoyed special favor of Emperor Leopold I, to whom he advanced considerable sums of money for the Great Turkish War. Prince Eugene of Savoy brought him a large number of valuable Hebrew manuscripts from Turkey, which became the nucleus of the famous David Oppenheim Library, now part of the Bodleian Library at Oxford.\n\nAlthough the Jews had been recently expelled from Vienna in 1670, the emperor permitted Oppenheimer to settle there, together with his \"Gesinde\", his followers, who included a number of Jewish families. He even received the privilege of building a mansion in the heart of Vienna. He was appointed \"Oberfaktor\" and court Jew at the recommendation of Margrave Ludwig of Baden, the imperial general in Hungary, to whom he had advanced 100,000 gulden for war expenses. He also enabled Prince Eugene to provide medical attendance for the army during the Turkish war. About the year 1700, a riot broke out, possibly sanctioned by the royal court, to persuade Oppenheimer to relieve the court's debt. During the riot, houses were sacked and property looted, including Oppenheimer's. As a result, one man was hanged for sacking Oppenheimer's house and others were imprisoned for participating in the disturbance. \n\nOppenheimer took steps to suppress the anti-Semitic \"Entdecktes Judenthum\" (\"Judaism Unmasked\") treatise by spending large sums of money to win the court and the Jesuits to the side of the Jews. As a result, an imperial edict was issued forbidding circulation of the Eisenmenger's work. Oppenheimer was employed also by the emperor in political missions which were often of a delicate nature.\n\nWhen Oppenheimer died, the state refused to honor its debts to his heir Emanuel and had his firm declared bankrupt. His death brought deep financial crisis to the state; it experienced great difficulty in securing the credit necessary to meet its needs. Emanuel appealed to European rulers to whom the state owed money and who intervened on his behalf. After deliberate procrastination, the state refused Emanuel's demand for 6 million florins and instead demanded 4 million florins from him. This amount was based on a sum which (with compound interest), according to the state, Oppenheimer had allegedly obtained by fraud at the beginning of his career. Emanuel died in 1721 and the Oppenheimer estate was auctioned in 1763. Although Oppenheimer was not himself learned, he was a benefactor on a scale hitherto unknown, building many synagogues and yeshivot and supporting their scholars. He also paid ransom for the return of Jews captured during the Turkish wars and supported as well R. Judah he-Hasid’s voyage to Erez Israel in 1700. Known as Judenkaiser by his contemporaries, he was a man whose complex personality, a mixture of pride and reserve, defied historical analysis. Twenty years after his death it was estimated that more than 100 persons held residence in Vienna by virtue of their being included in Oppenheimer’s privileges.\n\nOppenheimer was buried in the Rossauer Cemetery, the oldest Jewish cemetery in Vienna (Seegasse 9). Stones in the cemetery were buried during WWII for protection. Many were recovered and the cemetery was restored in the 1980s. Samuel Oppenheimer's tombstone was not recovered. A photograph taken before the war reveals the elaborate inscriptions on his tombstone.\n\nOne of Oppenheimer's sons, Simon Wolf Oppenheimer, established a banking house in Hanover. Simon Wolff's son, Jakob Wolf Oppenheimer continued the family banking house. It was there, from 1757 to 1763, that Mayer Amschel Rothschild apprenticed and learned the banking business that would become synonymous with that family name. Oppenheimer's descendants include the composer Felix Mendelssohn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54904272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54904272", "title": "Selling Apartheid", "text": "Selling Apartheid\n\nSelling Apartheid: South Africa's Global Propaganda War is a 2015 book by Ron Nixon, the Washington correspondent for the \"New York Times\" and a visiting associate in the Department of Media and Journalism Studies at the University of Witwatersrand.\n\n\"Selling Apartheid\" is an in-depth investigation into the Foreign relations of South Africa during apartheid and the international propaganda campaign conducted by the apartheid government. Nixon's book contains a large number of previously secret records from archives in South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States. It examines the diverse network of apartheid supporters and defenders from global corporations with business operations in South Africa to conservative religious organisations, and even anti-communist black conservatives aligned with right-wing Cold War politicians.\n\nThe book recalls a moment during Nixon's youth in which he was unwittingly given a propaganda magazine produced by South African intelligence services from his grandmother which painted a glowing picture filled with wild animals, sunsets and happy black people on the beach.\n\nIn the \"Star Tribune\" Chris Serres wrote that \"Selling Apartheid\" \"meticulously unpacks the complex web of relationships and covert money flows\"\n\nRon Jacobs, writing for the \"Sri Lanka Guardian\" praised the book as an \"essential addition to the volume of work on South Africa’s apartheid regime\" which is \"rich in detail\".\n"}
{"id": "2221686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221686", "title": "Social marketing", "text": "Social marketing\n\nSocial marketing is the use of marketing theory, skills and practices to achieve social change. It has the primary goal of achieving \"social good\". Traditional commercial marketing aims are primarily financial, though they can have positive social affects as well. In the context of public health, social marketing would promote general health, raise awareness and induce changes in behaviour. To see social marketing as only the use of standard commercial marketing practices to achieve non-commercial goals is an oversimplified view. \n\nSocial marketing seeks to develop and integrate marketing concepts with other approaches to social change. Social marketing aims to influence behaviors that benefit individuals and communities for the greater social good. The goal is to deliver competition-sensitive and segmented social change programs that are effective, efficient, equitable and sustainable. \n\nIncreasingly, social marketing is described as having \"two parents.\" The \"social parent\" uses social science and social policy approaches. The \"marketing parent\" uses commercial and public sector marketing approaches. Recent years have also witnessed a broader focus. Social marketing now goes beyond influencing individual behaviour. It promotes socio-cultural and structural change relevant to social issues. Consequently, social marketing scholars are beginning to advocate for a broader definition of social marketing: \"social marketing is the application of marketing principles to enable individual and collective ideas and actions in the pursuit of effective, efficient, equitable, fair and sustained social transformation\".\nThe new emphasis gives equal weight to the effects (efficiency and effectiveness) and the process (equity, fairness and sustainability) of social marketing programs.\n\nThe first documented evidence of the deliberate use of marketing to address a social issue comes from a 1963 reproductive health program led by K. T. Chandy at the Indian Institute of Management in Calcutta, India. Chandy and colleagues proposed, and subsequently implemented, a national family planning program with high quality, government brand condoms distributed and sold throughout the country at low cost. The program included an integrated consumer marketing campaign run with active point of sale promotion. Retailers were trained to sell the product aggressively, and a new organization was created to implement the program. In developing countries, the use of social marketing expanded to HIV prevention, control of childhood diarrhea (through the use of oral re-hydration therapies), malaria control and treatment, point-of-use water treatment, on-site sanitation methods and the provision of basic health services.\n\nHealth promotion campaigns began applying social marketing in practice in the 1980s. In the United States, The National High Blood Pressure Education Program and the community heart disease prevention studies in Pawtucket, Rhode Island and at Stanford University demonstrated the effectiveness of the approach to address population-based risk factor behaviour change. Notable early developments also took place in Australia. These included the Victoria Cancer Council developing its anti-tobacco campaign \"Quit\" (1988) and \"SunSmart\" (1988), its campaign against skin cancer which had the slogan \"Slip! Slop! Slap!\"\n\nSince the 1980s, the field has rapidly expanded around the world to include active living communities, disaster preparedness and response, ecosystem and species conservation, environmental issues, development of volunteer or indigenous workforces, financial literacy, global threats of antibiotic resistance, government corruption, improving the quality of health care, injury prevention, landowner education, marine conservation and ocean sustainability, patient-centered health care, reducing health disparities, sustainable consumption, transportation demand management, water treatment and sanitation systems and youth gambling problems, among other social needs (See).\n\nOn a wider front, by 2007, government in the United Kingdom announced the development of its first social marketing strategy for all aspects of health. In 2010, the US national health objectives included increasing the number of state health departments that report using social marketing in health promotion and disease prevention programs and increasing the number of schools of public health that offer courses and workforce development activities in social marketing.\n\nTwo other public health applications include the CDC's CDCynergy training and software application and SMART (Social Marketing and Assessment Response Tool) in the U.S.\n\nSocial marketing theory and practice has been progressed in several countries such as the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the UK, and in the latter a number of key government policy papers have adopted a strategic social marketing approach. Publications such as \"Choosing Health\" in 2004, \"It's our health!\" in 2006 and \"Health Challenge England\" in 2006, represent steps to achieve a strategic and operational use of social marketing. In India, AIDS controlling programs are largely using social marketing and social workers are largely working for it. Most of the social workers are professionally trained for this task.\n\nA variation of social marketing has emerged as a systematic way to foster more sustainable behavior. Referred to as community-based social marketing (CBSM) by Canadian environmental psychologist Doug McKenzie-Mohr, CBSM strives to change the behavior of communities to reduce their impact on the environment. Realizing that simply providing information is usually not sufficient to initiate behavior change, CBSM uses tools and findings from social psychology to discover the perceived barriers to behavior change and ways of overcoming these barriers. Among the tools and techniques used by CBSM are focus groups and surveys (to discover barriers) and commitments, prompts, social norms, social diffusion, feedback and incentives (to change behavior). The tools of CBSM have been used to foster sustainable behavior in many areas, including energy conservation, environmental regulation and recycling.\n\nIn recent years, the concept of strategic social marketing has emerged, which identifies that social change requires action at the individual, community, socio-cultural, political and environmental level, and that social marketing can and should influence policy, strategy and operational tactics to achieve pro-social outcomes.\n\nOther social marketing can be aimed at products deemed, at least by proponents, as socially unacceptable. One of the most notable is People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) which for many years has waged social marketing campaigns against the use of natural fur products. The campaigns' efficacy has been subject to dispute.\n\nNot all social marketing campaigns are effective everywhere. For example, anti-smoking campaigns such as World No Tobacco Day while being successful (in concert with government tobacco controls) in curbing the demand for tobacco products in North America and in parts of Europe, have been less effective in other parts of the world such as China, India and Russia. (See also: Prevalence of tobacco consumption)\n\nSocial marketing uses the benefits of doing social good to secure and maintain customer engagement. In social marketing the distinguishing feature is therefore its \"primary focus on social good, and it is not a secondary outcome. Not all public sector and not-for-profit marketing is social marketing.\n\nPublic sector bodies can use standard marketing approaches to improve the promotion of their relevant services and organizational aims. This can be very important but should not be confused with social marketing where the focus is on achieving specific behavioral goals with specific audiences in relation to topics relevant to social good (e.g., health, sustainability, recycling, etc.). For example, a 3-month marketing campaign to encourage people to get a H1N1 vaccine is more tactical in nature and should not be considered social marketing. A campaign that promotes and reminds people to get regular check-ups and all of their vaccinations when they're supposed to encourages a long-term behavior change that benefits society. It can therefore be considered social marketing.\n\nSocial marketing can be confused with commercial marketing. A commercial marketer may only seek to influence a buyer to purchase a product. Social marketers have more difficult goals. They want to make potentially difficult and long-term behavior changes in target populations, which may or may not involve purchasing a product. For example, reducing cigarette smoking or encouraging use of condoms have difficult challenges to overcome that go beyond purchasing decisions.\n\nSocial marketing is sometimes seen as being restricted to a client base of non-profit organizations, health services groups, the government agency. However, the goal of inducing social change is not restricted to this narrow spectrum of organizations. Corporations, for example, can be clients. Public relations or social responsibility departments may champion social causes such funding for the arts, which would involve social marketing.\n\nSocial marketing should not be confused with the societal marketing concept which was a forerunner of sustainable marketing in integrating issues of social responsibility into commercial marketing strategies. In contrast to that, social marketing uses commercial marketing theories, tools and techniques to social issues.\n\nSocial marketing applies a \"customer oriented\" approach and uses the concepts and tools used by commercial marketers in pursuit of social goals like anti-smoking campaigns or fund raising for NGOs.\n\nSocial marketers must create competitive advantage by constantly adapting to and instigating change. With climate change in mind, adaptations to market changes are likely to be more successful if actions are guided by knowledge of the forces shaping market behaviours and insights that enable the development of sustainable competitive advantages.\n\nIn 2006, Jupitermedia announced its \"Social Marketing\" service, with which it aims to enable website owners to profit from social media. Despite protests from the social marketing communities over the perceived hijacking of the term, Jupiter stuck with the name. However, Jupiter's approach is more correctly (and commonly) referred to as social media optimization.\n\nMany scholars ascribe the beginning of the field of social marketing to an article published by G.D. Wiebe in the Winter 1951-1952 edition of \"Public Opinion Quarterly\". In it, Wiebe posed a rhetorical question: \"Why can’t you sell brotherhood and rational thinking like you can sell soap?” He then went on to discuss what he saw as the challenges of attempting to sell a social good as if it were a commodity, thus identifying social marketing (though he did not label it as such) as a discipline unique from c\nmmodity marketing. Yet, Wilkie & Moore (2003) note that the marketing discipline has been involved with questions about the intersection of marketing and society since its earliest days as a discipline.\n\nA decade later, organizations such as the KfW Entwicklungsbank in Germany, the Canadian International Development Agency, the Ministry for\nForeign Affairs in The Netherlands, UK Department for International Development, US Agency for International Development, World Health Organization and the World Bank began sponsoring social marketing interventions to improve family planning and achieve other social goals in Africa, Sri Lanka, and elsewhere.\n\nThe next milestone in the evolution of social marketing was the publication of \"Social Marketing: An Approach to Planned Social Change\" in the \"Journal of Marketing\" by Philip Kotler and Gerald Zaltman. Kotler and Zaltman coined the term 'social marketing' and defined it as \"the design, implementation, and control of programs calculated to influence the acceptability of social ideas and involving considerations of product planning, pricing, communication, distribution, and marketing research.\" They conclude that \"social marketing appears to represent a bridging mechanism which links the behavior scientist's knowledge of human behavior with the socially useful implementation of what that knowledge allows.\"\n\nCraig Lefebvre and June Flora introduced social marketing to the public health community in 1988, where it has been most widely used and explored. They noted that there was a need for \"large scale, broad-based, behavior change focused programs\" to improve public health (the community wide prevention of cardiovascular diseases in their respective projects) and outlined eight essential components of social marketing that still hold today:\n\nSpeaking of what they termed \"social change campaigns\", Kotler and Ned Roberto introduced the subject by writing, \"A social change campaign is an organized effort conducted by one group (the change agent) which attempts to persuade others (the target adopters) to accept, modify, or abandon certain ideas, attitudes, practices or behavior.\" Their 1989 text was updated in 2002 by Philip Kotler, Ned Roberto and Nancy Lee. In 2005, University of Stirling was the first university to open a dedicated research institute to Social Marketing, while in 2007, Middlesex University became the first university to offer a specialized postgraduate programme in Health & Social Marketing.\n\nIn recent years there has been an important development to distinguish between \"strategic social marketing\" and \"operational social marketing\".\n\nMuch of the literature and case examples focus on operational social marketing, using it to achieve specific behavioral goals in relation to different audiences and topics. However, there has been increasing efforts to ensure social marketing goes \"upstream\" and is used much more strategically to inform policy formulation and strategy development. Here the focus is less on specific audience and topic work but uses strong customer understanding and insight to inform and guide effective policy and strategy development.\n\nSocial marketing is also being explored as a method for social innovation, a framework to increase the adoption of evidence-based practices among professionals and organizations, and as a core skill for public sector managers and social entrepreneurs. It is being viewed as an approach to design more effective, efficient, equitable and sustainable approaches to enhance social well-being that extends beyond individual behavior change to include creating positive shifts in social networks and social norms, businesses, markets and public policy.\n\nMany examples exist of social marketing research, with over 120 papers compiled in a six volume set.). For example, research now shows ways to reduce the intentions of people to binge drink or engage in dangerous driving. Martin, Lee, Weeks and Kaya (2013) suggests that understanding consumer personality and how people view others is important. People were shown ads talking of the harmful effects of binge drinking. People who valued close friends as a sense of who they are were less likely to want to binge drink after seeing an ad featuring them and a close friend. People who were loners or who did not see close friends important to their sense of who they were reacted better to ads featuring an individual. A similar pattern was shown for ads showing a person driving at dangerous speeds. This suggests ads showing potential harm to citizens from binge drinking or dangerous driving are less effective than ads highlighting a person’s close friends.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28434021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28434021", "title": "Spieprzaj dziadu!", "text": "Spieprzaj dziadu!\n\nThe phrase \"Spieprzaj dziadu!\" (which is sometimes translated from Polish as \"Piss off, you old git!\"). was used by the late Polish President Lech Kaczyński on the street in the Praga district of Warsaw in response to a middle-aged heckler during the November 2002 Warsaw mayoral campaign.\n\nOn 4 November 2002, after an afternoon campaign meeting, Kaczyński was about to get into his car when a unidentified passerby wearing a hat and dark glasses heckled him.\n\nThe name of the passerby was, as of November 2009, unknown. Since then the phrase had been quoted in television programmes and in films, had inspired websites, appeared on T-shirts and on a multitude of other objects.\n\nAfterwards, Lech Kaczyński explained that politicians also have the right to defend their honour: \"I put up with the first lot of his insults. It was only after the second lot, that I told him firmly – though mildly for a Praga street – to go away.\"\n\nIn a separate incident in Lublin, in 2008, a man identified only as Przemysław D., 34, also shouted \"Spieprzaj, dziadu!\" in the vicinity of Kaczyński and was prosecuted for insulting the President. The Polish edition of \"Newsweek\" questioned, in its own editorial, how Kaczyński could have complained that someone was rude to him, when his own phrase used in 2002 was equally rude to someone else.\n\nThe phrase was brought up again by candidate Donald Tusk, now Polish Prime Minister, during the 2005 presidential election campaign. On 26 September, during a televised debate with Kaczyński. According to Tusk, Kaczyński's remark had caused a furore at the time.\n\nIn 2007, the Civic Platform political party included footage of the original incident in one of their campaign television advertisements. Also in 2007, Jerzy Szmajdziński, the leader of the Democratic Left Alliance, told Kaczyński \"Spieprzaj dziadu!\" after Kaczyński criticised the period of communism in Poland by saying that socialism was \"a system run by riffraff for riffraff\" (\"socjalizm to był ustrój hołoty, dla hołoty\"). Kaczyński and Szmajdziński both later died in the same plane crash in Smolensk.\n\nIn 2009, while in Lublin, a member of the Polish Parliament Janusz Palikot quoted the phrase in reference to Kaczyński and was reported to the police for insulting the President, a criminal offence in Poland. However, linguists were divided as to whether the insult, being a quotation, had a satirical function and was therefore protected by freedom of speech legislation.\n\nThe phrase has been repeated in various television programmes, notably the sitcom \"Świat według Kiepskich\" (\"The World According to the Kiepskis\") and cult cartoon \"Włatcy móch\". It is used in the Polish versions of the computer game \"The Witcher\" and also appears in a milder form (\"Zjeżdżaj, dziadu\" – \"Get lost, old man\") in the translations for the animated films \"Astérix at the Olympic Games\", \"Open Season\" and \"The Simpsons Movie\". Wristbands have also been produced by those opposed to Kaczyński sporting the phrase.\nIn November 2009, seven years after the original incident, a new coin called the \"Seven Old Men of the Capital\" was introduced by a local businessman in Praga to commemorate the event. It was not legal tender, but could be exchanged for services in participating outlets in the Praga area. 10,000 coins were produced and each was worth seven zloties.\n\nSimilar political incidents:\n\n"}
{"id": "49822513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49822513", "title": "The Slave's Cause", "text": "The Slave's Cause\n\n\"The Slave's Cause: A History of Abolition\" is a historical book by Manisha Sinha that was released in February 2016 by Yale University Press.\n\nWriting in \"The Atlantic\", Adam Rothman calls \"The Slave's Cause\" \"a stunning new history of abolitionism.\"\n"}
{"id": "294165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294165", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly Resolution 3379, adopted on 10 November 1975 by a vote of 72 to 35 (with 32 abstentions), \"determine[d] that Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination\". The vote took place approximately one year after UNGA 3237 granted the PLO \"observer status\", following PLO president Yasser Arafat's \"olive branch\" speech to the General Assembly in November 1974. The resolution was passed with the support of the Soviet bloc and other then Soviet-aligned nations, in addition to the Arab- and Muslim-majority countries.\n\nThe determination that \"Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination\", contained in the resolution, was revoked in 1991 with UN General Assembly Resolution 46/86.\n\nIn July 1920, at the San Remo conference, a Class \"A\" League of Nations mandates over Palestine was allocated to the British. The preamble of the mandate document declared:\nWhereas the Principal Allied Powers have also agreed that the Mandatory should be responsible for putting into effect the declaration originally made on November 2nd, 1917, by the Government of His Britannic Majesty, and adopted by the said Powers, in favour of the establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people, it being clearly understood that nothing should be done which might prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine, or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country. \n\nOn 29 November 1947, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution recommending \"to the United Kingdom, as the mandatory Power for Palestine, and to all other Members of the United Nations the adoption and implementation, with regard to the future government of Palestine, of the Plan of Partition with Economic Union\" as Resolution 181 (II). The plan contained a proposal to terminate the British Mandate for Palestine and partition Palestine into \"independent Arab and Jewish States and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem.\" On 14 May 1948, the day on which the British Mandate over Palestine expired, the Jewish People's Council gathered at the Tel Aviv Museum, and approved a proclamation which declared \"the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz Israel, to be known as the State of Israel\".\n\nOn 11 May 1949, Israel was admitted to membership in the United Nations.\n\nThe full text of Resolution 3379:\n\nIn his address to the United Nations General Assembly the same day, 10 November 1975, Israeli Ambassador Chaim Herzog stated:\nIn his response he also said that the resolution was:\nHerzog ended his statement, while holding a copy of the resolution, with these words: As he concluded his speech, Herzog tore the resolution in half.\n\nThe name of \"The UN avenue\" in Haifa, Jerusalem and Tel Aviv was switched to \"The Zionism avenue\" as a response to the UN's decision.\n\nBefore the vote, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, warned that, \"The United Nations is about to make anti-Semitism international law.\" He delivered a speech against the resolution, including the famous line, \"[The United States] does not acknowledge, it will not abide by, it will never acquiesce in this infamous act ... A great evil has been loosed upon the world.\"\n\nIn Campbell, California, in the United States, a group of high school students attempted to solicit signatures on the premises of a local shopping center for a petition against Resolution 3379. The result was the landmark U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Pruneyard Shopping Center v. Robins\" (1980) that supported states' rights to expand the exercise of free speech, which California held was legal in what were considered public areas of a shopping mall.\n\nMexico's vote in favor of the resolution led some United States Jews to organize a tourism boycott of Mexico. This ended after Mexican foreign minister Emilio Óscar Rabasa made a trip to Israel (Rabasa shortly afterward was forced to resign).\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly Resolution 46/86, adopted on 16 December 1991, revoked the determination in Resolution 3379, which had called Zionism a form of racism. Israel had made revocation of Resolution 3379 a condition of its participation in the Madrid Peace Conference, in progress in the last quarter of 1991.\n\nThe resolution was raised under pressure from the administration of US President George H.W. Bush. The text of the revocation was simply:\n\n\"The General Assembly Decides to revoke the determination contained in its resolution 3379 (XXX) of 10 November 1975.\"\n\nThe motion was supported by 111 (including the 90 nations who sponsored the resolution), opposed by 25 nations and abstained by 13 nations.\n\nGeorge H. W. Bush personally introduced the motion to revoke 3379 with these words:\n\nAnd now, for the first time, we have a real chance to fulfill the U.N. Charter's ambition of working \"to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and nations large and small to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom\". Those are the words from the charter. We will not revive these ideals if we fail to acknowledge the challenge that the renewal of history presents.<br>\n\n...No one here can promise that today's borders will remain fixed for all time. But we must strive to ensure the peaceful, negotiated settlement of border disputes. We also must promote the cause of international harmony by addressing old feuds. We should take seriously the charter's pledge \"to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbors.\"<br>\n\nUNGA Resolution 3379, the so-called \"Zionism is racism\" resolution, mocks this pledge and the principles upon which the United Nations was founded. And I call now for its repeal. Zionism is not a policy; it is the idea that led to the creation of a home for the Jewish people, to the State of Israel. And to equate Zionism with the intolerable sin of racism is to twist history and forget the terrible plight of Jews in World War II and, indeed, throughout history. To equate Zionism with racism is to reject Israel itself, a member of good standing of the United Nations.\n\nThis body cannot claim to seek peace and at the same time challenge Israel's right to exist. By repealing this resolution unconditionally, the United Nations will enhance its credibility and serve the cause of peace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18481700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481700", "title": "Vice President of Sudan", "text": "Vice President of Sudan\n\nThe Vice President of Sudan is the second highest political position obtainable in Sudan. Currently there is a provision for two Vice Presidents, who are appointed by the President of Sudan. Historically either the First or the Second Vice President was from Southern Sudan. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38022584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38022584", "title": "Voice of Namibia", "text": "Voice of Namibia\n\nVoice of Namibia (VoN) was a pirate radio station propagating Namibian independence, and the political mouthpiece of the South West African People's Organization (SWAPO) during the Namibian War of Independence. It operated from 1966 until Namibian independence in 1990 from different hosting stations in Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nAfter World War I the League of Nations gave South West Africa, formerly a German colony, to the United Kingdom as a mandate under the title of South Africa. When the National Party won the 1948 election in South Africa and subsequently introduced apartheid legislation, these laws also extended into South West Africa which was the \"de facto\" fifth province of South Africa.\n\nOn 19 April 1960 SWAPO was founded as the successor of the Ovamboland People's Organization that was established in 1959. During 1962 SWAPO had emerged as the dominant nationalist organisation for the Namibian people, co-opting other groups such as the South West Africa National Union (SWANU), and in 1976 the Namibia African People's Democratic Organisation. SWAPO used guerrilla tactics to fight the South African military. On 26 August 1966 the first major clash of the conflict took place, when a unit of the South African Police, supported by South African Air Force, exchanged fire with SWAPO forces at Omugulugwombashe. This date is generally regarded as the start of what became known in South Africa as the Border War.\n\nVoice of Namibia was part of the propaganda wing of SWAPO. It started with a one-hour program called \"Namibian Hour\" that was broadcast from Tanzania in 1966. Radio Zambia began relaying the \"Namibian Hour\" as from 1973, and the following year the program was renamed \"Voice of Namibia\". Luanda joined the hosting stations in 1976. Further stations hosting \"Voice of Namibia\" were Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation, the Voice of Revolutionary Ethiopia, and Voice of the Revolution from Congo-Brazzaville.\n\nVoN was the counter-propaganda station to the South West African Broadcasting Corporation (SWABC), the South African Broadcasting Corporation outpost in South West Africa.\n\nThroughout the 1980s VoN established a network of freelance journalists within South West Africa. Unlike other pirate stations that promoted independence in Sub-Saharan Africa it was thus able to keep contact with the local population, a property that positively influenced its reception in the target territory. Further sources of information for the Voice of Namibia were faxes and telephone calls to its London office, and clandestine courier services to Angola via Ovamboland. When the Namibia Press Agency (NAMPA) was established in 1987 as a press agency of SWAPO, news updates were telexed to all VoN dependencies after being cleared by SWAPO.\n\nVoice of Namibia had a large local audience among the black population, particularly due to technical reasons: Weak local radio offerings before the 1970s had caused the spread of short wave radio sets which were better suited to receive international channels than the FM sets predominant in South Africa. When Radio Owambo, an FM channel destined for the indigenous Ovambo people, was started in 1969, it could not change the already existing regular practice of assessing radio offerings on the short wave band.\n\nUpon Namibian independence in March 1990, the South West African Broadcasting Corporation (SWABC) was renamed as the Namibia Broadcasting Corporation (NBC), and VoN was merged into it. The NBC was officially disassociated from SWAPO and declared an independent state broadcaster. However, staff from SWABC stayed on and pro-apartheid personnel had to be reconciled with returning VoN partisan journalists, which created considerable tensions.\n\nA number of journalists and administrators at VoN became high-ranking politicians after Namibian independence, among them:\n\n"}
{"id": "21060540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21060540", "title": "Vroom–Yetton decision model", "text": "Vroom–Yetton decision model\n\nThe Vroom–Yetton contingency model is a situational leadership theory of industrial and organizational psychology developed by Victor Vroom, in collaboration with Phillip Yetton (1973) and later with Arthur Jago (1988). The situational theory argues the best style of leadership is contingent to the situation. This model suggests the selection of a leadership style of groups decision-making.\n\nThe Vroom-Yetton-Jago Normative Decision Model helps to answer above questions. This model identifies five different styles (ranging from autocratic to consultative to group-based decisions) on the situation and level of involvement. They are:\n\n\nVroom and Yetton formulated following seven questions on decision quality, commitment, problem information and decision acceptance, with which leaders can determine level of followers involvement in decision. Answer to the following questions must be either ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ with the current scenario:\n\nBased on the answers one can find out the styles from the graph.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20783558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20783558", "title": "Water politics in the Jordan River basin", "text": "Water politics in the Jordan River basin\n\nWater politics in the Jordan River basin refers to political issues of water within the Jordan River drainage basin, including competing claims and water usage, and issues of riparian rights of surface water along transnational rivers, as well as the availability and usage of ground water. Water resources in the region are scarce, and these issues directly affect the five political subdivisions (Israel, the West Bank, Lebanon, Syria and Jordan) located within and bordering the basin, which were created since the collapse, during World War I, of the former single controlling entity, the Ottoman Empire. Because of the scarcity of water and a unique political context, issues of both supply and usage outside the physical limits of the basin have been included historically.\n\nThe Jordan river basin and its water are central issues of both the Arab–Israeli conflict (including Israeli–Palestinian conflict), as well as the more recent Syrian Civil War. The Jordan River is long and, over most of its distance, flows at elevations below sea level. Its waters originate from the high precipitation areas in and near the Anti-Lebanon mountains in the north, and flow through the Sea of Galilee and Jordan River Valley ending in the Dead Sea at an elevation of minus 400 metres, in the south.\n\nDownstream of the Sea of Galilee, where the main tributaries enter the Jordan Valley from the east, the valley bottom widens to about . This area is characterized by higher alluvial or beach terraces paralleling the river; this area is known as the \"Ghor\" (or \"Ghawr\"). These terraces are locally incised by side wadis or rivers forming a maze of ravines, alternating with sharp crests and rises, with towers, pinnacles and a badlands morphology.\n\nAt a lower elevation is the active Jordan River floodplain, the \"zhor\" (or \"Zur\"), with a wildly meandering course, which accounts for the excessive length of the river in comparison to the straight-line distance to reach the Dead Sea. Small dams were built along the river within the Zhor, turning the former thickets of reeds, tamarisk, willows, and white poplars into irrigated fields. After flowing through the Zur, the Jordan drains into the Dead Sea across a broad, gently sloping delta.\n\nIn the upper Jordan river basin, upstream of the Sea of Galilee, the tributaries include:\n\nThe lower Jordan River tributaries include:\n\nThe riparian rights to the Jordan River are shared by 4 different countries: Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel as well as the Palestinian territories; although Israel as the occupying authority has refused to give up any of the water resources to the Palestinian National Authority. The Jordan River originates near the borders of three countries, Israel, Lebanon, and Syria, with most of the water derived from the Anti-Lebanon Mountains and Mount Hermon to the north and east. Three spring-fed headwater rivers converge to form the Jordan River in the north:\nThese streams converge six kilometres inside Israel and flow south to the Sea of Galilee, wholly within Israel.\n\nWater quality is variable in the river basin. The three tributaries of the upper Jordan have a low salinity of about 20 ppm. The salinity of water in Lake Tiberias ranges from 240 ppm in the upper end of the lake (marginal for irrigation water), to 350 ppm (too high for sensitive citrus fruits) where it discharges back into the Jordan River. The salt comes from the saline subterranean springs. These springs pass through the beds of ancient seas and then flow into Lake Tiberias, as well as the groundwater sources that feed into the lower Jordan. Downstream of Tiberias, the salinity of the tributary Yarmouk River is also satisfactory, at 100 ppm, but the lower Jordan river becomes progressively more saline as it flows south. It reaches twenty-five percent salinity (250,000 ppm) where it flows in the Dead Sea, which is about seven times saltier than the ocean.\n\nAs a resource for freshwater the Jordan River drainage system is vital for most of the population of Palestine, Israel and Jordan, and to a lesser extent in Lebanon and Syria who are able to use water from other national sources. (Although Syrian riparian rights to the Euphrates has been severely restricted by Turkey's dam building programme, a series of 21 dams and 17 hydroelectric stations built on the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, in the 1980s, 90s and projected to be completed in 2010, in order to provide irrigation water and hydroelectricity to the arid area of southeastern Turkey.) The CIA analysis in the 1980s placed the Middle East on the list of possible conflict zones because of water issues. Twenty per cent of the region’s population lack access to adequate potable water and 35% of the population lack appropriate sanitation.\n\nSharing water resources involves the issue of water use, water rights, and distribution of amounts. The Palestinian National Authority wished to expand and develop the agricultural sector in the West Bank to decrease their dependency on the Israeli labour market, while Israel have prevented an increase in the irrigation of the West bank. Jordan also wishes to expand its agricultural sector so as to be able to achieve food security.\n\nOn 21 May 1997 the UN General Assembly adopted a Convention on the Law of Non-navigational Uses of International Watercourses.\n\nThe articles establish two principles for the use of international watercourses (other than navigation): \"equitable and reasonable utilization\". and \"the ‘due diligence’ obligation not to cause significant harm.\" Equitable and reasonable utilization requires taking into account all relevant factors and circumstances, including:\n\nStudies of regional water resources and their development, in modern terms, date from the early 1900s during the period of Ottoman rule; they also follow in light of a significant engineering milestone and resource development achievement. Based largely on geographic, engineering and economic considerations many of these plans included common components, but political considerations and international events would soon follow.\n\nAfter the First World War, the Jordan River Basin began to be seen as a problem of quantitative allocations. In the late 1930s and mid-1940s, Transjordan and the World Zionist Organization commissioned mutually exclusive competing water resource studies. The Transjordanian study, performed by Michael G. Ionides, concluded that the available water resources are not sufficient to sustain a Jewish state which would be the destination for Jewish immigration. The Zionist study, by the American engineer Walter Clay Lowdermilk, concluded that by diverting water from the Jordan basin to support agriculture and residential development in the Negev, a Jewish state supporting 4 million new immigrants would be sustainable.\n\nBelow is a brief timeline summarizing policy attempts related to sharing water in the Jordan River Basin between 1922 to 1940s.\n\nAt the end of the 1948 Arab Israeli War with the signing of the General Armistice Agreements in 1949, both Israel and Jordan embarked on implementing their competing initiatives to utilize the water resources in the areas under their control.\n\nThe first \"Master Plan for Irrigation in Israel\" was drafted in 1950 and approved by a Board of Consultants (of the USA) on 8 March 1956. The main features of the Master Plan was the construction of the Israeli National Water Carrier (NWC), a project for the integration of all major regional projects into the Israeli national grid. Tahal – Water Planning for Israel Ltd., an Israeli public corporate body, was established in 1952, being largely responsible for planning of water development, drainage, etc., at the national level within Israel, including the NWC project which was commissioned in 1965.\n\nIn 1952, the Bunger plan was issued by Jordan in collaboration with UNRWA and US Technical Cooperation Agency's Point IV program, aiming to provide water to 100,000 resettled Palestinian refugees, to be relocated into Northern Jordan. The plan included construction of major Maqarin dam over Yarmouk river to store some 500 million cubic meters of water and serve Jordan and Syria, allowing Jordan to avoid from storing water in the mostly Israeli-controlled Lake Tiberias. The Maqarin dam was also designated to provide electricity, while a smaller dam at Adasiya was supposed to divert Yarmouk-originated water to the Jordanian East Ghor Canal, aimed to irrigate Jordanian areas east to the Jordan river. A plan was also issued concerning the West Ghor Canal, envisioning a siphone to irrigate also the West Bank. In March 1953, Jordan and UNRWA signed a preliminary agreement to implement the Bunger plan. Shortly, on June 1953, Jordan and Syria signed a complementary treaty in this regard. Despite the expected objection of Israel, Jordan moved with the plan and in July 1953 allocated funding for the project in collaboration with UNRWA and US Government, pending later agreement with Israel. The Israeli government protested to US over the Maqarin dam plan, over not taking into account its rights on the Yarmouk waters downstream. While Israel convinced the US to pause the project until the issue is resolved, it also offered its eagerness to discuss it with the Arab governments.\n\nIn 1953, Israel began construction of a water carrier to take water from the Sea of Galilee to the populated center and agricultural south of the country, while Jordan concluded an agreement with Syria, known as the Bunger plan, to dam the Yarmouk River near Maqarin, and utilize its waters to irrigate Jordanian territory, before they could flow to the Sea of Galilee. Military clashes ensued, and US President Dwight Eisenhower dispatched ambassador Johnston to the region to work out a plan that would regulate water usage.\n\nBelow is a brief timeline summarizing policy attempts related to sharing water in the Jordan River Basin between 1951 and 1955.\nBetween 1955 and the beginning of the Oslo Process, there was little attempt at policy making in regards to shared bodies of water.\n\nOn 10 June 1967, the last day of the Six-Day War, Golani Brigade forces quickly invaded the village of Banias where a caliphate era Syrian fort stood. Eshkol's priority on the Syrian front was control of the water sources.\n\nIn 1980, Syria unilaterally started a programme of dam building along the Yarmouk.\n\nThe southern slopes of Mount Hermon (Jebel esh-Sheikh) as well as the Western Golan Heights, were unilaterally annexed by Israel in 1981.\n\nIn 1988, the Syrian-Jordanian agreement on development of the Yarmouk was blocked when Israel, as a riparian right holder, refused to ratify the plan and the World Bank withholds funding. Israel's augments its Johnson plan allocation of 25,000,000 m³/yr by a further 45,000,000–75,000,000 m³/yr.\n\nThe water agreement formed a part of the broader political treaty which was signed between Israel and Jordan in 1994, and the articles relating to water in this agreement do not correspond with Jordan’s rights to water as they were originally claimed. The nature and significance of the wider 1994 treaty meant that the water aspect was forced to cede importance and priority in negotiations, giving way to areas such as borders and security in terms of armed force, which were perceived by decision-makers as being the most integral issues to the settlement. Main points from the water sharing in the Jordan/Israel Peace treaty.\n\nJordan being a country that borders on the Jordan has riparian rights to water from the Jordan basin and upper Jordan tributaries. Due to the water diversion projects the flow to the river Jordan has been reduced from 1,300 million–1,500 million cubic metres to 250 million–300 million cubic metres. Where the water quality has been further reduced as the flow of the river Jordan is made of run-off from agricultural irrigation and saline springs.\n\nIsrael's subsequent developments have been mainly aimed at enlarging the main distribution system of Israel, run-off interception, reclamation of waste-water, and increasing the operational efficiency of water distribution networks. Over the years, the irrigated area within Israel has increased from 28,000 ha in 1948 to some 220,000 ha in 1997.\n\nProblems can be seen to have emerged in 1999, when the treaty’s limitations were revealed by events concerning water shortages in the Jordan basin. A reduced supply of water to Israel due to drought meant that, in turn, Israel which is responsible for providing water to Jordan, decreased its water provisions to the country, provoking a diplomatic disagreement between the two and bringing the water component of the treaty back into question.\n\nIsrael's complaints that the reduction in water from the tributaries to the river Jordan caused by the Jordanian-Syrian dam look to go unheeded due to the conflict of interest between Israel and her neighbours.\n\nThe dramatic drought, which hit Levant between 1998 to 2012, was identified by scientists to be the most severe in 900 years. The dramatic effect of the drought on southern Syria is proposed as one of the factors which led to the eruption of the Syrian Civil War.\n\nHistorically, prior to the eruption of Syrian War in 2011, the Syrian government had developed a series of 21 dams in the Yarmouk drainage basin to divert water into large reservoirs used for irrigation of agricultural land. Jordan had built a large dam of its own on the Yarmouk, the Al-Wehda Dam, in order to exploit the water for its own agriculture. However, prior to the Syrian War, the amount of water it collected by Jordanian dam had fallen as Syria dammed the river upstream. While the Yarmouk flows into the Jordan River, most of its water has been used in Syria and Jordan before reaching the river. Since the civil war broke out, hundreds of thousands of refugees have fled the area of southern Syria, many of whom were farmers. Most fled to refugee camps in Jordan. As a result, much more water now flows in the Yarmouk River and thus greater quantities of water are reaching the parts of the river that flow through Jordan, and later into Israel as well.\n\nThe Syria-Lebanon-Palestine boundary was a product of the post-World War I Anglo-French partition of Ottoman Syria. British forces had advanced to a position at Tel Hazor against Turkish troops in 1918 and wished to incorporate all the sources of the Jordan River within the British controlled Palestine. Due to the French inability to establish administrative control, the frontier between Syria and Palestine was fluid. Following the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, and the unratified and later annulled Treaty of Sèvres, stemming from the San Remo conference, the 1920 boundary extended the British controlled area to north of the Sykes Picot line, a straight line between the mid point of the Sea of Galilee and Nahariya. In 1920 the French managed to assert authority over the Arab nationalist movement and after the Battle of Maysalun, King Faisal was deposed. The international boundary between Palestine and Syria was finally agreed by Great Britain and France in 1923 in conjunction with the Treaty of Lausanne, after Britain had been given a League of Nations mandate for Palestine in 1922. Banyas (on the Quneitra/Tyre road) was within the French Mandate of Syria. The border was set 750 metres south of the spring.\n\nIn 1941 Australian forces occupied Banyas in the advance to the Litani during the Syria-Lebanon Campaign; Free French and Indian forces also invaded Syria in the Battle of Kissoué. Banias's fate in this period was left in a state of limbo since Syria had come under British military control. After the cessation of World War II hostilities, and at the time Syria was granted Independence (April 1946), the former mandate powers, France and Britain, bilaterally signed an agreement to pass control of Banias to the British mandate of Palestine. This was done against the expressed wishes of the Syrian government who declared France's signature to be invalid. While Syria maintained its claim on Banias in this period, it was administered from Jerusalem.\n\nFollowing the 1948 Arab Israeli War, and the signing of the General Armistice Agreements in 1949, and DMZs included in the Armistice with Syria in July 1949, were \"not to be interpreted as having any relation whatsoever to ultimate territorial arrangements.\" Israel claimed sovereignty over the Demilitarised zones (DMZs), on the basis that, \"it was always part of the British Mandated Territory of Palestine.\" Moshe Dayan and Yosef Tekoah adopted a policy of Israeli control of the DMZ and water sources at the expense of Israel’s international image. The Banias spring remained under Syrian control, while the Banias River flowed through the contested Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and into Israel.\n\nThe Hasbani River derives most of its discharge from two springs in Lebanon the Wazzani and the Haqzbieh, the latter being a group of springs on the uppermost Hasbani. The Hasbani runs for in Lebanon before crossing the border and joining with the Banias and Dan Rivers at a point in northern Israel, to form the River Jordan. For about four kilometres downstream of Ghajar, the Hasbani forms the border between Lebanon and northern Israel.\n\nThe Wazzani's and the Haqzbieh's combined discharge averages 138 million m³ per year. About 20% of the Hasbani flow emerges from the Wazzani Spring at Ghajar, close to the Lebanese Israeli border, about 3 kilometres west of the base of Mount Hermon. The contribution of the spring is very important, because it is the only continuous year-round flow in the river in either Lebanon or Israel.\n\nUtilization of water resources in the area, including the Hasbani, has been a source of conflict and was one of the factors leading to the 1967 Six-Day War. The Hasbani was included in the Jordan Valley Unified Water Plan, proposed in 1955 by special US envoy Eric Johnston. Under the plan, Lebanon was allocated usage of 35 million cubic metres annually from it. The plan was rejected by the Arab League.\n\nIn 2001 the Lebanese government installed a small pumping station with a 10 cm bore to extract water to supply Ghajar village. In March 2002 Lebanon also diverted part of the Hasbani to supply Wazzani village. An action that Ariel Sharon said was a \"casus belli\" and could lead to war.\n\nThe Dan River is the largest tributary of the Jordan river, whose source is located at the base of Mount Hermon. Until the 1967 Six-Day War, the Dan River was the only source of the river Jordan wholly within Israeli territory. Its flow provides up to 238 million cubic metres of water annually to the Hulah Valley. In 1966 this was a cause of dispute between water planners and conservationists, with the latter prevailing after three years of court adjudication and appeals. The result was a conservation project of about at the source of the river called the Tel Dan Reserve.\n\nIn 1951 the tensions in the area were raised when, in the lake Huleh area (10 km from Banias), Israel initiated a project to drain the marsh land to bring into cultivation. The project caused a conflict of interests between the Israeli government and the Palestinian Arab villages in the area and drew Syrian complaints to the United Nations. On 30 March in a meeting chaired by David Ben-Gurion the Israeli government decided to assert Israeli sovereignty over the DMZs, consequently 800 inhabitants of the villages were forcibly evacuated from the DMZ. From 1951 Israel refused to attend the meetings of the Israel/Syria Mixed Armistice Commission. This refusal on the part of Israel not only constituted a flagrant violation of the General Armistice Agreement, but also contributed to an increase of tension in the area. The Security Council itself strongly condemned the attitude of Israel, in its resolution of 18 May 1951, as being \"inconsistent with the objectives and intent of the Armistice Agreement\"\n\nUnder UN auspices and with encouragement from the Eisenhower administration 9 meetings took place between 15 and 27 January 1953, to regularise administration of the 3 DMZs. At the eighth meeting Syria offered to adjust the armistice lines, and cede to Israel's 70% of the DMZ, in exchange for a return to the pre 1946 international border in the Jordan basin area, with Banias water resources returning uncontested to Syrian sovereignty. On 26 April, the Israeli cabinet met to consider the Syrian suggestions; with head of Israel’s Water Planning Authority, Simha Blass, in attendance. Blass noted that while the land to be ceded to Syria was not suitable for cultivation, the Syrian map did not suit Israel’s water development plan. Blass explained that the movement of the international boundary in the area of Banias would affect Israel’s water rights. The Israeli cabinet rejected the Syrian proposals but decided to continue the negotiations by making changes to the accord and placing conditions on the Syrian proposals. The Israeli conditions took into account Blass’s position over water rights and Syria rejected the Israeli counteroffer.\n\nOn 4 June 1953 Jordan and Syria concluded a bilateral plan to store surface water at Maqarin (completed in 2006 as Al-Wehda Dam), so as to be able to use the water resources of the Yarmouk river in the Yarmouk-Jordan valley plan, funded through the Technical Cooperation Agency of the United States of America, the UNRWA and Jordan.\n\nPart of the Hula marshes were re-flooded in 1994 due to the negative effects from the original drainage plan.\n\nIn September 1953, Israel unilaterally started a water diversion project within the Jordan River basin to divert water from the Jordan River at Jacob's Ford (B'not Yacov) to help irrigate the coastal Sharon Plain and eventually the Negev desert. The diversion project consisted of a nine-mile (14 km) channel midway between the Huleh Marshes and Lake Galilee (Lake Tiberias) in the central DMZ to be rapidly constructed. Syria claimed that it would dry up of Syrian land. The UNTSO Chief of Staff Major General Vagn Bennike of Denmark noted that the project was denying water to two Palestinian water mills, was drying up Palestinian farm land and was a substantial military benefit to Israel against Syria. The US cut off aid to Israel. The Israeli response was to increase work. UN Security Council Resolution 100 “deemed it desirable” for Israel to suspend work started on 2 September “pending urgent examination of the question by the Council”. Israel finally backed off by moving the intake out of the DMZ and for the next three years the US kept its economic sanctions by threatening to end aid channelled to Israel by the Foreign Operations Administration and insisting on tying the aid with Israel's behaviour. The Security Council ultimately rejected Syrian claims that the work was a violation of the Armistice Agreements and drainage works were resumed and the work was completed in 1957. This caused shelling from Syria and friction with the Eisenhower Administration; the diversion was moved to the southwest to Eshed Kinrot into the Israeli National Water Carrier project, designed by Tahal and constructed by Mekorot.\n\n1955 US ambassador Eric Johnston negotiated the Jordan Valley Unified Water Plan. The plan was for the unified development of the Jordan Valley water resources based on an earlier plan commissioned by United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). Modeled upon the Tennessee Valley Authority development plan, it was approved by technical water committees of all the regional riparian countries – Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. The plan was formally rejected by the Arab Higher Committee, but Nasser, the Egyptian president, assured the Americans that the Arabs would not exceed the water quotas prescribed by the Johnston plan. Jordan undertook to abide by their allocations under the plan. The plan was initially un-ratified by Israel, but after the US linked the Johnston plan to aid, also agreed to accept the allocation provisions.\n\nThe East Ghor canal formed part of a larger project – the Greater Yarmouk project – which envisioned two storage dams on the Yarmouk, and a West Ghor Canal, on the West Bank of the Jordan. These projects were never built, due to Israel's occupation of the West Bank of the Jordan River during the Six-Day War. After the Six-Day War, The PLO operated from bases within Jordan, and launched several attacks on Israeli settlements in the Jordan valley, including attacks on water facilities. Israel responded with raids in Jordan, in an attempt to force King Hussein of Jordan to rein in the PLO. The canal was the target of at least 4 of these raids, and was virtually knocked out of commission. The United states intervened to resolve the conflict, and the canal was repaired after Hussien undertook to stop PLO activity in the area.\n\nFirst summit of Arab Heads of State was convened in Cairo between 13–17 January 1964, called by Nasser the Egyptian president, to discuss a common policy to confront Israel's national water carrier project which was nearing completion. The second Arab League summit conference voted on a plan which would have circumvent and frustrated it. The Arab and North African states chose to divert the Jordan headwaters rather than the use of direct military intervention. The heads of State of the Arab League considered two options:\n\n\nThe Arab league plan selected was for the Hasbani and Banias waters to be diverted to Mukhaiba and stored. The scheme was only marginally feasible, was technically difficult and expensive. Arab political considerations were cited to justify the diversion scheme. In January 1964 an Arab League summit meeting convened in Cairo and decided:\n\nAfter the 2nd Arab summit conference in Cairo of January 1964 (with the backing of all 13 Arab League members), Syria in a joint project with Lebanon and Jordan, started the development of the water resources of Banias for a canal along the slopes of the Golan toward the Yarmouk River. While Lebanon was to construct a canal form the Hasbani River to Banias and complete the scheme. The project was to divert 20 to 30 million cubic metres of water from the river Jordan tributaries to Syria and Jordan for the development of Syria and Jordan. The Syrian construction of the Banias to Yarmouk canal got under way in 1965. Once completed, the diversion of the flow would have transported the water into a dam at Mukhaiba for use by Jordan and Syria before the waters of the Banias Stream entered Israel and the Sea of Galilee. Lebanon also started a canal to divert the waters of the Hasbani, whose source is in Lebanon, into the Banias. The Hasbani and Banias diversion works would have had the effect of reducing the capacity of Israel's carrier by about 35% and Israel's overall water supply by about 11%. Israel declared that it would regard such diversion as an infringement of its sovereign rights. The Finance of the project was through contributions by Saudi Arabia and Egypt. This led to military intervention from Israel, first with tank and artillery fire and then, as the Syrians shifted the works further southwards, with airstrikes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27957864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27957864", "title": "Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship", "text": "Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship\n\nThe Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship is a program of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation that recruits, supports, and prepares individuals for teaching careers, typically in fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM).\n\nPresident Barack Obama cited the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship as a model of STEM teacher preparation in a January 2010 speech on his administration’s Educate to Innovate initiative.\n\nIn 2007, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation began to focus on the closing of achievement gap, both at the K-12 level and also for institutions of higher education.\n\nAccording to studies by various researchers and organizations, improvement in teacher expertise is the best way to improve student achievement, and teacher preparation is an important factor in improving learning outcomes.\n\nBased on these findings, the Foundation created the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship program. Teacher candidates who are graduating from or have graduated from college, including graduating college seniors, recent graduates, and midcareer or second-career professionals, are selected to receive fellowships of approximately $30,000, which they use to enroll in master's degree programs for teacher preparation at universities selected by the Foundation. They teach at associated local public secondary schools from the beginning of their master’s work. In exchange for the Fellowship, Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellows commit to teach in high-need urban or rural schools for three years. During the three-year period they receive ongoing mentoring from both their university and the school district in which they are placed.\n\nThe first Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship, called the Leonore Annenberg Teaching Fellowship, was created in 2007 with funding from the Annenberg Foundation. Its Fellows enroll in master’s-level teacher preparation at four selected national universities—Stanford University and the Universities of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington. Each of the four universities conducts its own application and admissions process, with review by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.\n\nIn late 2007, the foundation launched the Woodrow Wilson Indiana Teaching Fellowship. Supported by Lilly Endowment, the WW Indiana Teaching Fellowship focuses on STEM teaching, recruiting 80 Fellows per year to attend teacher preparation programs at Ball State University, IUPUI, Purdue University, and the University of Indianapolis. IUPUI and the University of Indianapolis prepare teachers for Indianapolis-area schools—while Ball State works with the Muncie and Anderson schools and Purdue prepares teachers specifically for a network of rural Indiana schools.\n\nThe next states to create Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowships, Michigan and Ohio, launched their programs in late 2009 and 2010, respectively. The first classes of Fellows in these states begin their studies in summer 2011.\n\nThe W.K. Kellogg Foundation’s Woodrow Wilson Michigan Teaching Fellowship, works with six universities: Eastern Michigan University, Grand Valley State University, Michigan State University, University of Michigan, Wayne State University, and Western Michigan University. Partner school districts include Battle Creek, Benton Harbor, Detroit, Grand Rapids, and Kalamazoo.\n\nThe Woodrow Wilson Ohio Teaching Fellowship, supported by the Ohio Board of Regents’ Choose Ohio First program, with additional funds from a statewide group of private philanthropies, works with John Carroll University, The Ohio State University, the University of Akron, and the University of Cincinnati. Partnering Ohio districts include Akron, Canton, Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Columbus.\n\nLike the Indiana program, the Fellowships in Michigan and Ohio programs focus specifically on preparing teachers in the STEM fields for high-need secondary schools in their states.\n\nGeorgia institutions Columbus State University, Kennesaw State University and Piedmont College are also hosting Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellows.\n\nCreated by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund in 1992, the WW-RBF Fellowship was transferred to the Woodrow Wilson Foundation in 2009. The program works to recruit, support, and retain individuals of color as K-12 public school teachers in the United States. Fellows must use their awards for master’s programs at one of 27 teacher preparation programs designated by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11180940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11180940", "title": "World-Check", "text": "World-Check\n\nPart of the Thomson Reuters Risk Management Solutions suite, the World-Check database of Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) and heightened risk individuals and organisations is used around the world to help to identify and manage financial, regulatory and reputational risk.\n\nThe creation of the database was in response to legislation aimed at reducing the incidence of financial crimes. To begin with, World-Check's intelligence was used by banks and financial institutions as a comprehensive solution for assessing, managing and remediating risk. However, as legislation has become increasingly complex and its reach has become increasingly global, the demand for such intelligence has grown beyond the financial sector to include organisations from all sectors.\n\nWorld-Check's research team monitors emerging risks in more than 60 languages, covering over 240 countries and territories worldwide. All information used is in the public domain and research analysts profile individuals and entities using open-source research methodology (OSINT) while adhering to strict protocol such as that laid down by the Data Protection Act (UK).\n\nIn 2011, World-Check received independent assurance under the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) for the internal processes and controls that govern its global sanctions platform and dataset.\n\nA dedicated team of research analysts correlates sanction and embargo lists from around the world, including lists such as OFAC, UK HMT, EU, OSFI, FATF and the Australian DFAT. Regulatory and enforcement lists are monitored as well as lists of debarred and banned parties.\n\nSpecific areas of interest, such as terrorism, organised crime and the Middle East, are covered by specialist research teams.\n\nRegistered in London, World-Check was founded in 2000 by David Leppan to address the risk mitigation requirements of the Swiss banking community. During 2008, World-Check launched Country-Check, an index that ranks over 240 countries and territories worldwide in terms of risk. A statistical algorithm is used to aggregate various information sources across political, financial and criminal factors and this quantifies risk attached to customers and transactions according to their country of origin. Based on statistics and not perception, Country-Check provides practical intelligence for informed decision-making, useful for mergers and acquisitions, security of supply chain, cross border expansion and exploration, and production.\n\nIn 2009 World-Check increased its offering by acquiring IntegraScreen, a provider of enhanced due diligence reporting services. IntegraScreen reports are used when a detailed background check on any entity or individual is required, and research can be carried out no matter where the location.\n\nIn a reddit post, a user declared that he had acquired a copy of the World-Check database with information up to 2014. This leak online apparently was possible due to an incomplete assessment of the security, and was downloaded through the website Shodan, a search engine that lets the user find specific types of computers connected to the internet using a variety of filters, raising questions about the allegedly privacy and security of the service.\n\nIn 2017, World-Check admitted that the Palestine Solidarity Campaign (PSC) should never have been placed on their database at all and, specifically, should not have been associated with \"terrorism\", stressing that there were no grounds to suggest that PSC were either associated with terrorism related activity or that the organisation presented any kind of financial risk. The PSC and World-Check have reached an agreement to address the harm done to the reputation of the PSC and its chair, Mr. Hugh Lanning, and to resolve the matters between them arising from that profile.\n\nWorld-Check was forced to pay compensation and apologise to Finsbury Park Mosque in 2017 after falsely claiming that it had a current association with terrorism.\n\nIn 2011, Thomson Reuters acquired World-Check as a key component of their Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC) unit.\n\n\n"}
