{"id": "54295666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54295666", "title": "2017 Finnish government crisis", "text": "2017 Finnish government crisis\n\nThe 2017 Finnish government crisis followed the Finns Party leadership election held on 10 June 2017. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä (Centre Party) and Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo (National Coalition Party) announced on 12 June that they would no longer cooperate in a coalition government with the Finns Party after Jussi Halla-aho was elected party chairman. The crisis resolved on 13 June when twenty MPs defected from the Finns Party's parliamentary group, forming what would eventually become the Blue Reform party. Sipilä's government retained a majority in Finland's parliament as the Blue Reform continued as a member of the coalition.\n\nPrior to the crisis, the Finns Party had 37 MPs in the Finnish parliament and was represented in the Sipilä Cabinet by five ministers. Timo Soini, the long-time chair of the party and Minister for Foreign Affairs, announced in March 2017 that he would step down at the upcoming party conference in Jyväskylä, scheduled for June. Sampo Terho, the Minister for European Affairs and Culture, and Jussi Halla-aho, a Member of the European Parliament, emerged as the strongest candidates to succeed Soini. The party establishment was believed to support Terho against Halla-aho, a hardline critic of immigration and multiculturalism.\n\nIn the leadership election on 10 June, Halla-aho won majority of the party members' votes in the first round and was thus elected chair of the Finns Party. On the same day, Laura Huhtasaari, Teuvo Hakkarainen and Juho Eerola, all aligned with Halla-aho, were elected vice chairs of the party. Upon his election, Halla-aho pledged to take the party in a more nationalistic and Eurosceptic direction. The result was described a \"revolution\" by \"Helsingin Sanomat\" and Prime Minister Juha Sipilä stated that the Finns Party was not the same party as before.\n\nIn the morning of 12 June, Sipilä and Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, the leaders of the Centre Party and National Coalition Party respectively, negotiated on the continuation of the coalition government with Halla-aho at Kesäranta. Soon after, Sipilä and Orpo both tweeted that they would not cooperate with Halla-aho's party. Ending the coalition with the Finns Party was accepted by the parliamentary groups of the Centre Party and the NCP.\n\nIt was expected that Sipilä would soon formally ask President Sauli Niinistö to remove his cabinet from office. Opposition leaders Ville Niinistö and Li Andersson demanded a snap election to be held, but the Centre Party and the NCP were expected to form a new government with the Swedish People's Party and the Christian Democrats without a new election. This government coalition would have had 101 MPs, the narrowest possible parliamentary majority.\n\nHowever, on 13 June, twenty MPs left the Finns Party parliamentary group and formed a new group called the New Alternative. Its members included Soini, Terho and all other cabinet ministers that had formerly represented the Finns Party. The New Alternative was willing to continue as a member of the government coalition, which was approved by Sipilä and Orpo and their parliamentary groups. The new government coalition had 106 MPs. The crisis did not cause changes to the composition of Sipilä's cabinet. On 19 June, Terho announced that a new party would be formed based on the New Alternative parliamentary group under the name Blue Reform.\n\nAccording to Halla-aho, Sipilä expelled the Finns Party from the government because he could not accept Halla-aho's demand to follow the immigration policy agreed in the government programme. Sipilä and Orpo said that they and Halla-aho did not share the same values and also found it problematic that Halla-aho was going to lead his party from Brussels instead of becoming a cabinet minister in Helsinki.\n\nBlue Reform members explained their departure from the Finns Party by alleging that Halla-aho's supporters had hijacked the party. Soini blamed the far-right nationalist group Suomen Sisu for the schism within the party. Tiina Elovaara, one of the defecting MPs, reported witnessing Halla-aho's supporters making Nazi salutes during the party conference in Jyväskylä, later specifying she was referring to a specific photograph taken at the conference. However, the accusation was later debunked as the picture was taken on the day following the election and actually depicted participants engaging in show-of-hands voting. Halla-aho pointed out that he had been democratically elected chair by Finns Party members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34114090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34114090", "title": "Activism 2.0", "text": "Activism 2.0\n\nActivism 2.0 can be defined as online activism “fitting into people’s everyday routines and finding ways for people to use technology and social media to habitually contribute to social change with small, practical acts and, often, clicks.”\n\nActivism 2.0 is a concept introduced by Justin Dillon in his film Call + Response. This film explores the 21st century slave trade and attempts to draw public attention to promote community-based activism to abolish slavery.\n\nBecause of Wikipedia's prominence in search engine results, and its ranking as one of the most popular sites on the web, it is considered by some to be a worthwhile form of activism to combat bias, such as racism (by removing false assumptions and stereotypes) in Wikipedia articles.\n\nOnline activism is often considered slacktivism which is a pejorative term that describes \"feel-good\" measures, in support of an issue or social cause, that give slacktivists the illusionary sensation of having taken meaningful social actions, while in fact their effect is limited compared with the potential impact of other, more-participatory methods of activism.\n\nWhile critics question the effectiveness and meaningfulness of online activism, many activist websites defend themselves with success stories. In April 2011, the website Change.org which uses online petitions to promote social change was attacked by Chinese hackers and brought down. Change.org claimed that the attack was a result of the widespread—and for some unnerving—success of their online petition demanding the release of Ai Weiwei. Ai was released on June 22, 2011 from a Beijing prison, which Change.org deemed a victory for its online campaign.\n\nAnother online activism group Avaaz.org, also accused of slacktivism, allows members to contribute by signing online petitions or donating money towards various causes. Avaaz details the successful resolution of issues they built campaigns around on their \"Highlights\" page. Avaaz does not specifically attribute their campaigns as the sole reason for the resolution of issues, but they do claim to have influence on the resolutions. In March 2011, Avaaz contributed over 1 million online actions, sent 668,784 messages and made 30,000 phone calls to members of Parliament in response to the Rupert Murdoch hacking scandal. MP Tom Watson noted Avaaz's contribution, saying \n\n\"Avaaz members in the UK and throughout the world lead the campaign to make politicians listen to the victims of phone hacking. Now everyone knows that Rupert Murdoch just got too powerful. The Government will have to act to make sure that a hacking scandal can never happen again. You spoke out. You made a difference. Thank you.\"\nHowever, Christensen argues that whether their online campaigns are effective in influencing decision-making is hard to measure. He notes that decision-makers’ words are often not credible because they tend to highlight the influence of citizens regardless of their actual impact. Additionally, while online activist groups tend to trumpet even their most modest successes, they rarely mention their more numerous unsuccessful ones. Thus, the true effectiveness of online activism and its real impact on society remains illusory.\n"}
{"id": "53854268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53854268", "title": "Advantage (debate)", "text": "Advantage (debate)\n\nIn competitive debate an advantages is the way that the affirmative team refers to the positive consequences of adopting their position on the debate resolution. It is an argument structure that seeks to convince the judge that the affirmative advocacy, if adopted, would result in a net-beneficial improvement to the status quo. \nSome variance in the structure of an advantage exists. The following are two of the most common structures:\n\nMethod 1\n\nMethod 2\n\n"}
{"id": "4014099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4014099", "title": "Arizona Highways", "text": "Arizona Highways\n\nArizona Highways is a magazine that contains travelogues and artistic photographs related to the state of Arizona. It is published monthly in Phoenix by a unit of the Arizona Department of Transportation.\n\nThe magazine began in July 1921 by the Arizona Highway Department (now the Arizona Department of Transportation) as a 10-page pamphlet designed to promote \"the development of good roads throughout the state.\" Publication of the pamphlet ended on December 30, 1922, after nine issues. The publication was relaunched on April 15, 1925 as a regular magazine. In addition to the engineering articles, cartoons and travelogues were also included in the early issues. Over the next two decades the magazine reduced, and then stopped, inclusion of the road engineering articles and dedicated itself to the present format of travel tales, historical stories, and humor about the state of Arizona (including stories about Arizona's contribution to the history of the Old West), always enhanced by the now-legendary photography. This transition began largely under the watch of Raymond Carlson, who began as editor in 1938 and served until 1971; under his leadership the magazine stopped accepting advertisements and developed the editorial tone and style for which it is best known to the present day.\n\n\"Arizona Highways\" has been well known for documenting the Native American people of Arizona and the Southwest, especially the Navajo, the Hopi and Apache; this includes stories and photos of life on the reservations, and centuries-old Native ceremonies such as the \"sunrise dance\" of the Apache. (Future U.S. Senator Barry Goldwater first became known in the late 1930s for his photographs of Native American life in Arizona, as well as other scenic landscapes such as the Grand Canyon, published in the pages of \"Arizona Highways\".) From time to time, special issues would be devoted to major places of interest in Arizona, such as the Phoenix and Tucson areas (as well as each of Arizona's major state-run universities), and the Grand Canyon. In selected issues, destinations in the Southwest outside of Arizona have been featured, including Bryce Canyon National Park in southern Utah. Several issues have also been devoted exclusively to Mexico, documenting places of historical interest and natural beauty (including the border town of Nogales), accessible to Arizonans via a relatively short drive south of the border. \n\n\"Arizona Highways\" promoted the art of Ettore \"Ted\" DeGrazia, showcasing his artwork especially in their December issues. Beginning in the 1950s, the December issue became known as \"Arizona's Christmas card to the world\" as it was the only issue of the year produced in full color, allowing for many dramatic color shots of the Arizona landscape, from the desert regions of the central and southern portions of the state to the snow-covered pine forests of Flagstaff and other northern areas. \"Arizona Highways\" began printing in full color for all issues by the mid-1980s.\n\nIn 1946, photographer Ansel Adams started to contribute prints for the magazine. Photographs include \"Arches, North Court, Mission San Xavier del Bac, Tucson, Arizona, 1968\" and \"Saguaro Cactus, Sunrise, Arizona, 1942\". Since this time, the magazine has become known for its photography, often compared favorably with that of \"National Geographic\" and similar travel magazines. Three generations of the Muench family contributed landscape photographs to \"Arizona Highways\": Josef Muench, an immigrant from Bavaria, whose first photos appeared in the late 1930s; son David Muench, who assisted his father as a teenager (his first of many \"Arizona Highways\" covers appeared in January 1955 when he was eighteen, and whose style became a standard followed by several later photographers for the magazine); and David's son Marc Muench, who became a fixture in \"Arizona Highways\"' pages starting in the 1980s.\n\nToday, \"Arizona Highways\" monthly circulation surpasses 200,000 copies, with readers in 50 U.S. states and in two-thirds of the world's countries.\n\nAlthough known primarily for its magazine, \"Arizona Highways\" also publishes books, calendars, and other Arizona-related products. \"Arizona Highways TV,\" which showcases many of the Arizona locations covered in the magazine, began production in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "46589045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46589045", "title": "CLADEM", "text": "CLADEM\n\nCLADEM (Comité de América Latina y El Caribe para la Defensa de los Derechos de la Mujer; Committee for Latin America and the Caribbean for the Defense of Women's Rights) is an international NGO network of women’s organizations and activists. It was established July 3, 1987, in San José, Costa Rica. It was developed after discussions in 1985 at the 3rd World Conference on Women of the United Nations in Nairobi where attendees noted a need for regionally based strategies in order to boost advocacy in Latin America and the Caribbean. Since 1995, it has held Category II Consulting Status at the United Nations, and since 2002, it has participated in Organization of American States matters.\n\n"}
{"id": "54150564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54150564", "title": "Ciutat morta", "text": "Ciutat morta\n\nCiutat Morta (\"Dead City\" in Catalan) is a Spanish documentary film about the 4F case directed by Xavier Artigas and Xapo Ortega in 2013.\nIt has been honored at the Guía de Isora Festival, MiradasDoc, with an honorable mention, and also as best documentary at the Málaga Film Festival in 2014.\n\nThe documentary 4F: ni obit ni perdó (\"4F: neither forgetting nor forgiveness\" in Catalan) was pre-screened in Barcelona on June 8, 2013 with an action of civil disobedience. This action consisted of the occupation by 800 people of a cinema closed 11 years ago, in the center of Barcelona: the \"Palacio del Cine\" of Vía Layetana. The cinema was renamed \"Cinema Patricia Heras\". \"Ciutat Morta\" includes images of the occupation of the cinema.\n\n\"Ciutat Morta\" was officially premiered on March 24, 2014 at the Malaga Spanish Film Festival.\n\nJune 8, 2013. 800 people enter an abandoned cinema in the center of Barcelona in order to project a documentary. The old building is renamed \"Cinema Patricia Heras\" in honor of a girl who committed suicide two years earlier. But who is Patricia? Why did she decide to take her own life? How does her death relate to Barcelona? The answers to these questions are exactly what they want to publicize with this illegal action as well as a great media impact: to know the truth about one of the worst cases of police and judicial corruption in Barcelona.\n\nThe night of February 4, 2006 ended with a police charge in the center of Barcelona. It was around an old busy theater where a party was being held. Among nightsticks hits, objects started to fall from the occupied house’s rooftop. As the Mayor of Barcelona reported on the radio a few hours later, one of the city policemen, who wore no helmet, was in a coma by the impact of a stone.\n\nThe arrests that came immediately after the tragic incident tell us the chronicle of revenge. Three young detainees, of South American origin, were severely tortured in police stations and later sent to provisional prison, being deprived of their freedom for two years, awaiting trial, without being able to clarify what they were accused of. Two other detainees that night - Patricia and Alfredo - deny they had been present at the scene: they were detained in a nearby hospital and found suspected because of the way they dressed. Despite the evidence that exonerated all defendants, in the trial that was held against them, individuals were not being judged, but an entire collective.\n\nIt was a generic enemy built by the press and politicians of the model city Barcelona. Barcelona, had just released its so-called \"civic ordinance,\" a hygienist law, a perfect legal framework for the gentrification plans of some downtown neighborhoods for tourism. The boys arrested that night were scapegoats that fit perfectly, for its aesthetics, with the image of the anti-system dissident: the internal enemy that the model city had been generating lately.\n\nYears later, the news appeared in the media that two policemen had been sentenced to prison, with sentences of more than two years, for having tortured a young Latin American in police stations. The conviction showed that officers lied and manipulated evidence during the trial. In order to cover up the torture they subjected to the young Latin American, they accused him of being a drug trafficker. However, in the course of the judicial inquiry the judge found that the accusation was false and was a police coverup: the young man was actually the son of the honorary consul of Norway in Trinidad and Tobago and was in Barcelona studying for university studies. These officers turned out to be the same ones who had tortured the young detainees that night of February 4, 2006, in addition to having declared as witnesses against the defendants during the celebration of the trial. It became clear that the torturers used the same \"modus operandi\" in both cases. The only difference in the second case was the social origin of the victims: being the son of a diplomat, the tortured young man had a fair trial; Those accused of the process of February 4, 2006 did not have it. It is the umpteenth history of police impunity, accompanied by good doses of racism, classism and the violation of fundamental rights, all protected by a police-judicial apparatus and politicians obsessed with the real estate business that offers the Barcelona brand at the expense of its citizens.\n\nBeyond the city of Barcelona, the main character of \"Ciutat Morta\" is Patricia, who we get to know through her poetry, the testimony of her friends and her ex-partners. She is a young student of literature, extremely sensitive, which hides her insecurities behind an eccentric aesthetic, fueled by the queer culture with which it is identified.\n\nThe experience that runs through that morning of February 4, 2006, when she is arrested along with her friend Alfredo in a hospital, gives a radical change to her life. Two years of anguish awaiting trial, exhausting all the savings of her life to pay lawyers. Three years in prison. Apart of shredding her life, these events trigger her literary productivity that is being recorded in a blog titled in a premonitory way: \"Poeta Muerta\" (\"Dead Poet\" in Spanish).\n\nPatricia commits suicide during a release from jail in April 2011. The authors of this film tried to pay homage.\n\nThe film is published under the Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 3.0 license.\n\nThe documentary \"Ciutat Morta\" was financed exclusively with a campaign of crowdfunding on the platform Verkami from microdonations, obtaining 4,720 € of the 4,211 € requested. The surplus was allocated directly to the support group to Patricia Heras and Rodrigo Lanza with the \"Des-Montaje 4F\" campaign.\n\nThe real cost, if all the expenses of realization had been covered, would amount to approximately €90,000.\n\nThe media minimized the coverage of its premiere and its winning prizes at different festivals. TV3, the Catalan public television, refused the coproduction of the film once the shooting was concluded, and tried to delay as much as possible the airing of the documentary, even when it was offered to air for free. Eugeni Sallent (director of TV3) even lied about this fact in the parliament.\n\nFinally, the documentary was broadcast on January 17, 2015 on Channel 33 in prime time but not in its full version, obtaining a screen share in Catalonia of 20% and an audience of 569,000 people. The version broadcast on TV had around 5 minutes deleted, in compliance with a judicial ruling, which was considered as a possible form of partial censorship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23439412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439412", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1985", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1985\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1985 was the eighth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Nassau, The Bahamas, between 16 October 1985 and 22 October 1985, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Sir Lynden Pindling.\n\nThe Nassau Accord was agreed to calling on the government of South Africa to dismantle its apartheid policy, enter into negotiations with the country's black majority and end its occupation of Namibia. The Commonwealth Eminent Persons Group was appointed to investigate the South African issue and report back with recommendations ahead of the special 1986 CHOGM in London.\n\nOnce released from prison, Mandela visited the Bahamas and thanked Sir Lynden Pindling for his role in opposing apartheid. Thabo Mbeki also visited the Bahamas when he became president of South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "217476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217476", "title": "Consolidation of Sweden", "text": "Consolidation of Sweden\n\nThe consolidation of Sweden involved an extensive process during which the loosely organized social system consolidated under the power of the king. The actual age of the Swedish kingdom is unknown. Also, for various reasons, scholars differ in defining early Sweden as either a country, state or kingdom.\n\nUnlike the histories of Denmark and Norway, there is no agreement on a reliable date for a unified Sweden. Historians judge differently the sources for the history of Sweden's consolidation. The earliest history blends with Norse mythology. Early primary sources are foreign; secondary sources were written at a later date.\n\nBased on the origins of the name of the kingdom as meaning (Kingdom of the Swedes), some historians have argued that Sweden was unified when the Swedes first solidified their control over the regions they were living in. The earliest date for this is based on a brief section in the Roman historian Tacitus discussing the Suiones tribe. \nThis would imply that a Swedish kingdom would have existed in the first to second centuries AD. However, with the increased rigour of historical method advanced in 20th century historical research, in Sweden as elsewhere, historians such as Curt Weibull maintained that these perspectives have become obsolete. Modern historians noted that a millennium had passed between Tacitus and more in-depth and reliable documented accounts (or notices of contemporary events relating to Sweden by Frankish and German writers) of Swedish history. The work of Birger Nerman (1925), who argued that Sweden held a senior rank among the existing European states at the time represents a nationalist reaction to the academic historiography, the latter taking a critical or cautious view of the value of old layers of sources of history especially if these documents and traditions are unsupported by any direct traces, any footprint of events and social or political conditions in the archaeological records, buildings, coinage etc. of the age in question.\n\nA common definition of Sweden is that it was formed when the Swedes and Geats were ruled by one king. The names Swedes and Geats are attested in the Old English poems \"Beowulf\" (written down in the 11th century) and \"Widsith\" (from the 8th century) and building on older legendary and folklore material collected in England. In both poems, an Ongentheow (corresponding to \"Angantyr\" in Icelandic sagas) is named as the King of the Swedes, and the Geats are mentioned as a separate people. \"Beowulf\" also tells how the Geats are defeated by the Swedes. Based on another event in the story, this conquest has been placed in the sixth century. These names of peoples living in present-day Sweden, the Anglo-Saxon references and now lost tales they were attached to must have travelled across the North Sea. The first time the two peoples are documented to have had a common ruler is during the reign of Olof Skötkonung about AD 1000. \n\nBroadly speaking, Kings of Sweden, and the nobility of the land, have seen Götaland and Svealand (as well as growing parts of Finland) as equally important parts of the kingdom at least since the mid-13th century and, in some cases, considerably earlier.\n\nRather than the unification of tribes under one king, others maintain that the process of consolidation was gradual. Nineteenth-century scholars saw the unification as a result of a series of wars based on evidence from the Norse sagas. For example, according to the Norwegian \"Historia Norwegiae\" and the Icelandic historian Snorri Sturlusson, a 7th-century king called Ingjald illråde burnt a number of subordinate kings to death inside his hall, thus abolishing the petty kingdoms in the consolidation of Sweden.\n\nTo solve the problem of defining an early history of Sweden that coincides with reliable sources, a group of modern Swedish historians have contended that a real state could only exist, in the Middle Ages, if had the backing of Christianity and the clergy. The same connection between Christianity and consolidation is used in other countries where written sources are less scarce, such as England or Harald Bluetooth's Denmark. The definition is based on the fact that English and German priests would have brought organizational and administrative skills needed for statehood (including by local rulers). The process of consolidation would have required this important ideological shift. While an Iron Age Germanic king would claim the elective support of his people, and the Norse gods, a crowned Christian king would claim that his rule was divinely inspired. According to this definition the unification should be completed in 1210 when Erik Knutsson was crowned by the church, or perhaps in 1247 when the last separatist rising was defeated at Sparrsätra. A major problem sometimes pointed out with that view is that it entails circular proof: we know next to nothing about how the authority of the ruler was envisaged in heathen times, while we know some more of the Christian ideology of kingship, and obviously the Christian kingdom would underline the break with the pagan past, but this does not really allow the conclusion that there could have been no fixed and religiously connected ideas of the authority of the ruler in pre-Christian times. Moreover, we have no solid testimonies fixing it as a fact that the king residing in Central Sweden (the lake Mälar/Östergötland area) was actually recognized as king in all of the area that was called Sweden by the 13th century, when the mist really clears. There may have existed local kings in Western Sweden, even though their names have not been preserved.\n\nThat Sweden went through a process of consolidation in the early Middle Ages is generally agreed upon, but royal authority was often contested all through the Middle Ages, and sometimes barely even exercised. Gustaf Vasa (1523–60) determinedly strengthened the central power and mightily increased the authority and resources of the crown, and his reign marked the beginning of the early modern Swedish state. The full and complete process of territorial consolidation behind natural borders (the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, and woodland and mountains separating the country from Norway) reached a decisive point only in the 17th century with the treaty of Roskilde (1658); however, at the time, the idea of \"natural borders\" or even territorial continuity was not seen as essential to a state. The current borders of Sweden were not settled until 1809 with the loss of Finland to Russia in the Finnish War. With the loss of Finland, which was seen as a national disaster by contemporary Swedes and certainly redefined the nation, and a few years later of its last German possessions (acquired in the Peace of Westphalia), the country had reached the shape it still has, and also entered a period of peace in relation to its neighbours.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42650846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42650846", "title": "Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia", "text": "Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia\n\nThe Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia () is constitutional law which defines rights of national minorities in Croatia. Law entered into force on 23 December 2002. It is hierarchically under the Constitution of Croatia and must comply with it, but above ordinary state laws and decisions and above statutes and decisions of lower levels of government which all must be in accordance with this law. Additionally, two special laws were created to define rights regarding education in minority languages and specific rights on the usage of minority language in public life (\"Law on Use of Languages and Scripts of National Minorities\" and \"The Law on Education in language and script of national minorities\"). Additionally, Constitution of Croatia itself have articles directly relating to protection of National Minorities, and list traditional minorities in Croatia.\n\nIn December 1991 Croatian Parliament adopted the \"Constitutional Law on Human Rights and Freedoms and Rights of National and Ethnic Communities or Minorities in the Republic of Croatia\" which was prerequisite for international recognition of Croatia.\n\nFrom period of Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Croatia inherited and recognized relatively high level of protection of collective minority rights. Problem arose with protection of rights of \"new minorities\", respectively members of other six constituent nations of former state excluding Croats (Serbs, Slovenes, Bosniaks, Macedonians and Montenegrins). The problem was especially pronounced with Serbs of Croatia that had status of sovereign people within Socialist Republic of Croatia.\n\nIn 1992 Croatia changed law in order to include right on political autonomy in areas where minorities are actually majority of population. In addition to right to be represented and wide rights on cultural autonomy law now provided right to establish autonomous districts in areas where some minority constitute majority according to 1981 Yugoslav census. However, in practice this provision was never implemented since areas that fulfilled conditions were part of Republic of Serbian Krajina.\n\nConstitutional Law provided two types of monitoring of its implementation- international monitoring and cooperation in its implementation with Autonomous Districts.\n\nIn late September 1995 after Operation Storm Croatia returned control over its entire territory except Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Syrmia region which came under control of UNTAES. Croatian Parliament initially temporarily suspended application of Law provisions granting right on political autonomy sparking international criticism. Subsequently that part was completely abolished.\n\nOne of the first preconditions for starting of Accession of Croatia to the European Union was adoption of new law on national minorities rights.\n\nUnder the Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities, national minorities that participate in total population of Croatia with more than 1.5% (only Serbs of Croatia) are guaranteed minimum one and maximum of three seats in Croatian Parliament. Minorities that constitute less than 1.5% of total population (other minorities) can elect 4 members of Parliament in total.\n\nLaw proscribed establishment of special District XII of Croatian Parliament electoral districts for elections of representatives of national minorities.\n\nUnder the Constitutional Act on the Rights of National Minorities, municipalities and cities or towns where members of minority consist from 5% up to 15% they have right to have one representative in local council. If locally some minority consist more than 15% or at the county level more than 5% of population, that minority have right on proportional representation in local and regional councils.\n\nIn administrative units where national minority have right on proportional representation in representative bodies, it also have right on proportional representation in executive bodies. Minorities have right to elect deputies of municipal/town/city mayor or deputy county prefects.\n\nNational minorities have right on proportional representation in government bodies and judicial authorities in proportion in which they participate in total population of area in which that body performs its jurisdiction.\n\nIn order to realize these rights members of national minorities have right of priority in employment when they explicitly invoke that right in application and when they equally as other candidates meet all other criteria.\n\nState Council for National Minorities is an autonomous umbrella body of national minorities at the state level that connects institutions and interests of national minorities in Croatia. It is a body that deals with comprehensive minority issues within the Constitutional Law on National Minorities and all other laws pertaining to national minorities.\n\nCouncil is entitled to propose discusions regarding national minorities to Parliament and Government of Croatia, especially about issues regarding implementation of Constitutional Law and special laws regulating the rights of national minorities. Council have the right to give opinions and proposals about public radio and television stations programs as well as proposals for the implementation of economic, social and other measures in regions traditionally or predominantly inhabited by national minorities. Furthermore, the Council has the right to seek and obtain the required data and reports from government bodies and local and regional governments.\n\nThere are three types of representation in Council. All minority MPs automatically enter the Council. The second group, which consists of five members, are representatives of national minorities from the professional, cultural, religious and scientific community and representatives of minority associations, appointed by the Government on the proposal of associations, legal entities and citizens belonging to national minorities. The third group are representatives from the Council for National Minorities, which has seven members.\n\nThe Serb National Council (, ) is elected political, consulting and coordinating body acting as a form of self-government and institution of cultural autonomy of Serbs of Croatia in matters regarding civil rights and cultural identity. Council main focuses are human, civil and national rights, as well the issues of Serbs of Croatia identity, participation and integration in the Croatian society. County level council exist in city of Zagreb and all counties except Krapina-Zagorje County.\n\nAlongside Serb National Council, interests of the Serb ethnic community in the Osijek-Baranja and Vukovar-Syrmia County are additionally represented by Joint Council of Municipalities, sui generis body formed on the basis of Erdut Agreement. Organization functions as National Coordination body in these two counties.\n\nGovernment adopt regular two-year action plans for implementation of Constitutional law. For implementation of 2011-2013 Action plan government has allocated 143,704,348 Croatian kunas.\n\nOn tenth anniversary of Constitutional law Serb Democratic Forum sent a statement arguing that law served just to strengthen minority elites and did not actually strengthen the rights of national minorities. According to them, Constitutional Law is just collection of good wishes and European standards which face constant obstruction from state and at local levels. They add that national minority councils have failed to consume their role and become bodies without any real role and functions in local communities while Council for National Minorities became politicized institution through which minority elites generate their own, and not the interests of the minority communities they represent.\n\nIn 2011 Constitutional Court of Croatia after Left of Croatia, Serb Democratic Forum, Croatian Helsinki Committee and GONG repealed Law provision which guaranteed that Serbian minority will elect three members of parliament in one of regular constituency. This provision was enacted as a compromise between part of representatives of Serbian community and Jadranka Kosor government after government introduced double vote rights for all minorities except Serbs. Court pointed out that no one can have guaranteed number of places in parliament but that government can introduce double voting rights for all minorities in special minority constituency and regular territorial one.\n\n"}
{"id": "619495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=619495", "title": "Corporative federalism", "text": "Corporative federalism\n\nCorporative federalism is a system of federalism not based on the common federalist idea of relative land area or nearest spheres of influence for governance, but on fiduciary jurisdiction to corporate personhood in which groups that are considered incorporated members of their own prerogative structure by willed agreement can delegate their individual effective legislature within the overall government.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Empire had a version of corporative federalism and gave its number of different ethnicities their own individual rights within their own assemblies instead of by relation to the territory of the empire.\n\nPart of corporative federalism's philosophical underpinnings as a form of jurisdiction rests within the auspices of demographics as polities as much as they are constituencies of a federative structure. Theories adding philosophic backing to its own conceptualizations from such ideas as diplomatic recognition and the sovereign state's right to exist as if it extended beyond territorial nation-state in an international structure, to an intranational structure of the voluntary association of those with similar social world views being codified legal frameworks to themselves, within their own sphere of interaction, under a federal government of a particular nation state and relying on infrastructural power for implementation.\n"}
{"id": "31242430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31242430", "title": "County administrator", "text": "County administrator\n\nIn local government in the United States, a county administrator or county manager is a person appointed to be the administrative manager of a county, in a council-manager form of county government.\n\nIn some counties, the equivalent position is the county executive (although this term is sometimes used to refer to a directly or indirectly elected official, and not a hired employee) or county chief administrative officer (CAO) in some counties, and county judge in others. The term \"county manager,\" as opposed to CAO, implies more discretion and independent authority that is set forth in a charter or some other body of codified law, as opposed to duties being assigned on a varying basis to a single superior such as a county commissioner.\n\nThe International City/County Management Association (ICMA) is the professional association for county administrators.<ref name=\"International City/County Management Association\"></ref>\n\nThe county administrator/manager, operating under the council-manager government form, was created in part to remove county government from the power of the political parties, and place management of the county into the hands of an outside expert who was usually a business manager or engineer, with the hope that the county manager would remain neutral to county politics.\n\nAs the top appointed official in the county, the county administrator/manager is typically responsible for most if not all of the day-to-day administrative operations of the county, in addition to other expectations.\n\nSome of the basic roles, responsibilities, and powers of a county administrator/manager include:\n\nThe responsibilities may vary depending upon charter provisions and other local or state laws, rules, and regulations.\n\nToday the typical and preferred background and education for the beginning county manager is a Master of Public Administration (MPA) or other master's degree in public administration and at least several years’ experience as a department head in local government or as an assistant county manager. The average tenure of a manager is now 7–8 years and has risen gradually over the years. Tenures tend to be less in smaller communities and higher in larger ones, and they tend to vary as well depending on the region of the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "5708700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5708700", "title": "Cracking of wireless networks", "text": "Cracking of wireless networks\n\nCracking a wireless network is defeating the security of a wireless local-area network (back-jack wireless LAN). A commonly used wireless LAN is a Wi-Fi network. Wireless LANs have inherent security weaknesses from which wired networks are exempt.\n\nWireless cracking is an information network attack similar to a direct intrusion. Two frequent types of vulnerabilities in wireless LANs are those caused by poor configuration, and those caused by weak or flawed security protocols.\n\n\n802.11 networks use \"data frames\", \"management frames\", and \"control frames\". Data frames convey the real data, and are similar to those of Ethernet. Management frames maintain both network configuration and connectivity. Control frames manage access to the ether and prevent access points and clients from interfering with each other in the ether. Some information on management frames will be helpful to better understand what programs for \"reconnaissance\" do.\n\n\"Wardriving\" is a common method of wireless network reconnaissance. A well-equipped wardriver uses a laptop computer with a wireless card, an antenna mounted on the car, a power inverter, a connected GPS receiver, and a way to connect to the internet wirelessly. The purpose of wardriving is to locate a wireless network and to collect information about its configuration and associated clients.\n\nThe laptop computer and the wireless card must support a mode called \"monitor\" or \"rfmon\".\n\nNetstumbler is a network discovery program for Windows. It is free. Netstumbler has become one of the most popular programs for wardriving and wireless reconnaissance, although it has a disadvantage. It can be detected easily by most wireless intrusion detection systems, because it actively probes a network to collect information. Netstumbler has integrated support for a GPS unit. With this support, Netstumbler displays GPS coordinate information next to the information about each discovered network, which can be useful for finding specific networks again after having sorted out collected data.\n\nThe latest release of Netstumbler is of 1 April 2004. It does not work well with 64-bit Windows XP or Windows Vista.\n\ninSSIDer is a Wi-Fi network scanner for the 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows XP, Vista, 7, Windows 8 and Android. It is free and open source. The software uses the current wireless card or a wireless USB adapter and supports most GPS devices (namely those that use NMEA 2.3 or higher). Its graphical user interface shows MAC address, SSID, signal strength, hardware brand, security, and network type of nearby Wi-Fi networks. It can also track the strength of the signals and show them in a time graph.\n\nKismet is a wireless network traffic analyser for OS X, Linux, OpenBSD, NetBSD, and FreeBSD.\n\nWireshark is a packet sniffer and network traffic analyser that can run on all popular operating systems, but support for the capture of wireless traffic is limited. It is free and open source. Decoding and analysing wireless traffic is not the foremost function of Wireshark, but it can give results that cannot be obtained with programs. Wireshark requires sufficient knowledge of the network protocols to obtain a full analysis of the traffic, however.\n\nAirMagnet Laptop Analyser and AirMagnet Handheld Analyser are wireless network analysis tools made by AirMagnet. The company started with the Handheld Analyser, which was very suitable for surveying sites where wireless networks were deployed as well as for finding rogue access points. The Laptop Analyser was released because the hand-held product was impractical for the reconnaissance of wide areas. These commercial analysers probably offer the best combination of powerful analysis and simple user interface. However, they are not as well adapted to the needs of a wardriver as some of the free programs.\n\nAndrodumpper is an Android APK that is used to test and hack WPS Wireless routers which have a vulnerability by using algorithms to hack into that WIFI network. It runs best on Android version 5.0+\n\nAiropeek is a packet sniffer and network traffic analyser made by Wildpackets. This commercial program supports Windows and works with most wireless network interface cards. It has become the industrial standard for capturing and analysing wireless traffic. However, like Wireshark, Airopeek requires thorough knowledge of the protocols to use it to its ability.\n\nKisMac is a program for the discovery of wireless networks that runs on the OS X operating system. The functionality of KisMac includes GPS support with mapping, SSID decloaking, deauthentication attacks, and WEP cracking.\n\nThere are two basic types of vulnerabilities associated with WLANs: those caused by poor configuration and those caused by poor encryption.\nPoor configuration causes many vulnerabilities. Wireless networks are often put into use with no or insufficient security settings. With no security settings – the default configuration – access is obtained simply by association. Without sufficient security settings, networks can easily be defeated by cloaking and/or MAC address filtering.\nPoor encryption causes the remaining vulnerabilities. Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) is defective and can be defeated in several ways. Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) and Cisco's Lightweight Extensible Authentication Protocol (LEAP) are vulnerable to dictionary attacks.\n\nWEP was the encryption standard firstly available for wireless networks. It can be deployed in 64 and 128 bit strength. 64 bit WEP has a secret key of 40 bits and an initialisation vector of 24 bits, and is often called 40 bit WEP. 128 bit WEP has a secret key of 104 bits and an initialisation vector of 24 bits, and is called 104 bit WEP. Association is possible using a password, an ASCII key, or a hexadecimal key.\nThere are two methods for cracking WEP: the \"FMS attack\" and the \"chopping attack\".\nThe FMS attack – named after Fluhrer, Mantin, and Shamir – is based on a weakness of the RC4 encryption algorithm . The researchers found that 9000 of the possible 16 million initialisation vectors can be considered weak, and collecting enough of them allows the determination of the encryption key. To crack the WEP key in most cases, 5 million encrypted packets must be captured to collect about 3000 weak initialisation vectors. (In some cases 1500 vectors will do, in some other cases more than 5000 are needed for success.) The weak initialisation vectors are supplied to the Key Scheduling Algorithm (KSA) and the Pseudo Random Generator (PRNG) to determine the first byte of the WEP key. This procedure is then repeated for the remaining bytes of the key.\nThe chopping attack chops the last byte off from the captured encrypted packets. This breaks the Cyclic Redundancy Check/Integrity Check Value (CRC/ICV). When all 8 bits of the removed byte were zero, the CRC of the shortened packet is made valid again by manipulation of the last four bytes. This manipulation is: result = original XOR certain value. The manipulated packet can then be retransmitted. This method enables the determination of the key by collecting \"unique\" initialisation vectors.\nThe main problem with both the FMS attack and the chopping attack is that capturing enough packets can take weeks or sometimes months. Fortunately, the speed of capturing packets can be increased by injecting packets into the network. One or more Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) packets are usually collected to this end, and then transmitted to the access point repeatedly until enough response packets have been captured. ARP packets are a good choice because they have a recognizable size of 28 bytes.\nWaiting for a legitimate ARP packet can take awhile. ARP packets are most commonly transmitted during an authentication process. Rather than waiting for that, sending a deauthentication frame that pushes a client off the network will require that client to reauthenticate. This often creates an ARP packet.\n\nWPA was developed because of the vulnerabilities of WEP. WPA uses either a pre-shared key (WPA-PSK) or is used in combination with a RADIUS server (WPA-RADIUS). For its encryption algorithm, WPA uses either the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) or the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).\nWPA2 was developed because of some vulnerabilities of WPA-PSK and to strengthen the encryption further. WPA2 uses both TKIP and AES, and requires not only an encryption piece but also an authentication piece. A form of the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) is deployed for this piece.\nWPA-PSK can be attacked when the PSK is shorter than 21 characters. Firstly, the four-way EAP Over LAN (EAPOL) handshake must be captured. This can be captured during a legitimate authentication, or a reauthentication can be forced by sending deauthentication packets to clients. Secondly, each word of a word-list must be hashed with the Hashed Message Authentication Code – Secure Hash Algorithm 1 and two so called nonce values, along with the MAC address of the client that asked for authentication and the MAC address of the access point that gave authentication. Word-lists can be found at.\nLEAP uses a variation of Microsoft Challenge Handshake Protocol version 2 (MS-CHAPv2). This handshake uses the Data Encryption Standard (DES) for key selection. LEAP can be cracked with a dictionary attack. The attack involves capturing an authentication sequence and then comparing the last two bytes of a captured response with those generated with a word-list.\nWPA-RADIUS cannot be cracked. However, if the RADIUS authentication server itself can be cracked, then the whole network is imperilled. The security of authentication servers is often neglected.\nWPA2 can be attacked by using the WPA-PSK attack, but is largely ineffective.\n\nAircrack-ng runs on Windows and Linux, and can crack WEP and WPA-PSK. It can use the Pychkine-Tews-Weinmann and KoreK attacks, both are statistical methods that are more efficient than the traditional FMS attack. Aircrack-ng consists of components. Airmon-ng configures the wireless network card. Airodump-ng captures the frames. Aireplay-ng generates traffic. Aircrack-ng does the cracking, using the data collected by airodump-ng. Finally, airdecap-ng decrypts all packets that were captured. Thus, aircrack-ng is the name of the suite and also of one of the components.\n\nCoWPAtty automates the dictionary attack for WPA-PSK. It runs on Linux. The program is started using a command-line interface, specifying a word-list that contains the passphrase, a dump file that contains the four-way EAPOL handshake, and the SSID of the network.\n\nVoid11 is a program that deauthenticates clients. It runs on Linux.\n\nMAC address filtering can be used alone as an ineffective security measure, or in combination with encryption. The attack is determining an allowed MAC address, and then changing the MAC address of the attacker to that address.\nEtherChange is one of the many programs available to change the MAC address of network adapters. It runs on Windows.\n\nPenetration testing of a wireless network is often a stepping stone for penetration testing of the internal network. The wireless network then serves as a so-called \"entry vector\". If WPA-RADIUS is in use at a target site, another entry vector must be investigated.\n\nA 'wireless' sniffer can find IP addresses, which is \"helpful\" for network mapping.\n\nAccess points usually connect the nodes of a wireless network to a wired network as a bridge or a router. Both a bridge and a router use a routing table to forward packets.\n\nFinding \"relevant\" and \"reachable\" IP addresses is the objective of the reconnaissance phase of attacking an organization over the Internet. The relevant IP addresses are determined by collecting as many DNS host names as possible and translating them to IP addresses and IP address ranges. This is called footprinting.\n\nA search engine is the key for finding as much information as possible about a target. In many cases, organizations do not want to protect all their resources from internet access. For instance, a web server must be accessible. Many organizations additionally have email servers, FTP servers, and other systems that must be accessible over the internet. The IP addresses of an organization are often grouped together. \"If one IP address has been found, the rest probably can be found around it.\"\n\nName servers store tables that show how domain names must be translated to IP addresses and vice versa. With Windows, the command NSLookup can be used to query DNS servers. When the word help is entered at NSLookup's prompt, a list of all commands is given. With Linux, the command dig can be used to query DNS servers. It displays a list of options when invoked with the option -h only. And the command host reverses IP addresses to hostnames. The program nmap can be used as a reverse DNS walker: nmap -sL 1.1.1.1-30 gives the reverse entries for the given range.\n\nARIN, RIPE, APNIC, LACNIC, and AFRINIC are the five Regional Internet Registries that are responsible for the assignment and registration of IP addresses. All have a website with which their databases can be searched for the owner of an IP address. Some of the Registries respond to a search for the name of an organization with a list of all IP address ranges that are assigned to the name. However, the records of the Registries are not always correct and are in most cases useless.\n\nProbably most computers with access to the internet receive their IP address dynamically by DHCP. This protocol has become more popular over the last years because of a decrease of available IP addresses and an increase of large networks that are dynamic. DHCP is particularly important when many employees take a portable computer from one office to another. The router/firewall device that people use at home to connect to the internet probably also functions as a DHCP server.\n\nNowadays many router/DHCP devices perform Network Address Translation (NAT). The NAT device is a gateway between the local network and the internet. Seen from the internet, the NAT device seems to be a single \"host\". With NAT, the local network can use any IP address space. Some IP address ranges are reserved for private networks. These ranges are typically used for the local area network behind a NAT device, and they are: 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255, 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255, and 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255.\n\nThe relevant IP addresses must be narrowed down to those that are reachable. For this purpose, the process of scanning enters on the scene.\n\nOnce access to a wireless network has been gained, it is helpful to determine the network's topology, including the names of the computers connected to the network. Nmap can be used for this, which is available in a Windows and a Linux version. However, Nmap does not provide the user with a network diagram. The network scanner Network View that runs on Windows does. \"The program asks for one IP address or an IP address range.\" When the program has finished scanning, it displays a map of the network using different pictures for routers, workstations, servers, and laptops, all with their names added.\n\nThe most direct method for finding hosts on a LAN is using the program ping. When using a modern flavour of Unix, shell commands can be combined to produce custom ping-sweeps. When using Windows, the command-line can also be used to create a ping-sweep. Examples are given in the reference.\n\nPing-sweeps are also known as \"host scans\". Nmap can be used for a host scan when the option -sP is added: nmap -n -sP 10.160.9.1-30 scans the first 30 addresses of the subnet 10.160.9, where the -n option prevents reverse DNS lookups.\n\nPing packets could reliably determine whether a computer was on line at a specified IP address. Nowadays these ICMP echo request packets are sometimes blocked by the firewall of an operating system. Although Nmap also probes TCP port 80, specifying more TCP ports to probe is recommended when pings are blocked. Consequently, nmap -sP -PS21,22,23,25,80,139,445,3389 10.160.9.1-30 can achieve better results. And by combining various options as in nmap -sP -PS21,22,23,25,80,135,139,445,1025,3389 -PU53,67,68,69,111,161,445,514 -PE -PP -PM 10.160.9.1-30, superb host scanning is achieved.\n\nNmap is available for Windows and most Unix operating systems, and offers graphical and command-line interfaces.\n\nThe purpose of port scanning is finding the \"open ports\" on the computers that were found with a host scan. When a port scan is started on a network without making use of the results of a host scan, much time is wasted when many IP addresses in the address range are vacant.\n\nMost programs that communicate over the Internet use either the TCP or the UDP protocol. Both protocols support 65536 so called \"ports\" that programs can choose to bind to. This allows programs to run concurrently on one IP address. Most programs have default ports that are most often used. For example, HTTP servers commonly use TCP port 80.\n\nNetwork scanners try to connect to TCP or UDP ports. When a port accepts a connection, it can be assumed that the commonly bound program is running.\n\nTCP connections begin with a SYN packet being sent from client to server. The server responds with a SYN/ACK packet. Finally, the client sends an ACK packet. When the scanner sends a SYN packet and gets the SYN/ACK packet back, the port is considered open. When a RST packet is received instead, the port is considered closed. When no response is received the port is either considered filtered by a firewall or there is no running host at the IP address.\n\nScanning UDP ports is more difficult because UDP does not use handshakes and programs tend to discard UDP packets that they cannot process. When an UDP packet is sent to a port that has no program bound to it, an ICMP error packet is returned. That port can then be considered closed. When no answer is received, the port can be considered either filtered by a firewall or open. Many people abandoned UDP scanning because simple UDP scanners cannot distinguish between filtered and open ports.\n\nAlthough it is most thorough to scan all 65536 ports, this would take more time than scanning only the most common ports. Therefore, Nmap scans 1667 TCP ports by default (in 2007).\n\nThe -p option instructs Nmap to scan specified ports, as in nmap -p 21-25,80,100-160 10.150.9.46. Specifying TCP and UDP ports is also possible, as in nmap -pT:21-25,80,U:5000-5500 10.150.9.46.\n\nNmap always requires the specification of a host or hosts to scan. A single host can be specified with an IP address or a domain name. Multiple hosts can be specified with IP address ranges. Examples are 1.1.1.1, www.company.com, and 10.1.50.1-5,250-254.\n\nNmap performs a TCP SYN scan by default. In this scan, the packets have only their SYN flag set. The -sS option specifies the default explicitly. When Nmap is started with administrator privileges, this default scan takes effect. When Nmap is started with user privileges, a connect scan is performed.\n\nThe -sT option instructs Nmap to establish a full connection. This scan is inferior to the previous because an additional packet must be sent and logging by the target is more likely. The connect scan is performed when Nmap is executed with user privileges or when IPv6 addresses are scanned.\n\nThe -sN option instructs Nmap to send packets that have none of the SYN, RST, and ACK flags set. When the TCP port is closed, a RST packet is sent in return. When the TCP port is open or filtered, there is no response. The null scan can often bypass a stateless firewall, but is not useful when a stateful firewall is employed.\n\nThe -sU option instructs Nmap to send UDP packets with no data. When an ICMP error is returned, the port can be assumed closed. When no response is received, the port can be assumed open or filtered. No differentiation between open and filtered ports is a severe limitation.\n\nThe -sU -sV options instruct Nmap to use application data for application identification. This combination of options can lead to very slow scanning.\n\nWhen packets are sent to a network faster than it can cope with they will be dropped. This leads to inaccurate scanning results. When an intrusion detection system or intrusion prevention system is present on the target network, detection becomes more likely as speed increases. Many IPS devices and firewalls respond to a storm of SYN packets by enabling SYN cookies that make appear every port to be open. Full speed scans can even wreak havoc on stateful network devices.\n\nNmap provides five templates for adjusting speed and also adapts itself. The -T0 option makes it wait for 5 minutes before the next packet is sent, the -T1 option makes it wait for 15 seconds, -T2 inserts 0.4 seconds, -T3 is the default (which leaves timing settings unchanged), -T4 reduces time-outs and retransmissions to speed things up slightly, and -T5 reduces time-outs and retransmissions even more to speed things up significantly. Modern IDS/IPS devices can detect scans that use the -T1 option. The user can also define a new template of settings and use it instead of a provided one.\n\nThe -sV option instructs Nmap to also determine the version of a running application.\n\nThe -O option instructs Nmap to try to determine the operating systems of the targets. Specially crafted packets are sent to open and closed ports and the responses are compared with a database.\n\nThe -oX <filename> option instructs Nmap to save the output to a file in XML format.\n\nA vulnerability is a bug in an application program that affects security. They are made public on places such as the BugTraq and the Full-Disclosure mailing lists. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) brings out a statistical report every year. There were 8064 vulnerabilities counted in 2006 alone.\n\nVulnerability scanning is determining whether known vulnerabilities are present on a target.\n\nNessus is probably the best known vulnerability scanner. It is free and has versions for Windows, OS X, Linux, and FreeBSD. Nessus uses plug-ins to find vulnerabilities by sort. Updated plug-ins are regularly released.\n\nNessus offers a non-intrusive scan, an intrusive scan that can harm the target, and a custom scan. A scan requires the IP addresses or domain names of the targets. Nessus begins with a port scan to identify the programs that are running and the operating systems of the targets. It ends with a report that specifies all open ports and their associated vulnerabilities.\n\nNikto is a web scanner that can identify vulnerable applications and dangerous files. It is open source software and has versions for Windows and Linux. The program uses a command-line interface of the operating system.\n\nAn exploit takes advantage of a bug in an application. This can take effect in the execution of arbitrary commands by inserting them in the execution path of the program. Escalation of privileges, bypass of authentication, or infringement of confidentiality can be the result.\n\nThe Metasploit framework was released in 2003. This framework provided for the first time:\nwhere:\n\nThe basic procedure of using Metasploit is: choose an exploit, choose a payload, set the IP address and port of the target, start the exploit, evaluate, and stop or repeat the procedure.\n\nMetasploit is not suited for finding the vulnerabilities of a host; a vulnerability scanner is. Alternatively, when a port scanner has found an open port, all exploits for that port may be tried.\n\nMetasploit 3.0 provides the following payloads:\nVNC connections need a relatively large bandwidth to be usable, and if someone is in front of the compromised computer then any interaction will be seen very quickly. The command-line interfaces of Linux and OS X are powerful, but that of Windows is not. The Meterpreter payload remedies these shortcomings. The reference gives a list of Meterpreter commands.\n\nThe ultimate gratification for a network intruder always is to obtain administrator privileges for a network. When an intruder is inside, one of his or her first undertakings is often to install a so-called \"rootkit\" on a target computer. This is a collection of programs to facilitate durable influence on a system. Some of these programs are used to compromise new user accounts or new computers on the network. Other programs are to obscure the presence of the intruder. These obscuring programs may include false versions of standard network utilities such as netstat, or programs that can remove all data from the log files of a computer that relate to the intruder. Yet other programs of a rootkit may be used to survey the network or to overhear more passwords that are travelling over it. Rootkits may also give the means to change the very operating system of the computer it is installed on.\n\nThe network intruder then proceeds with creating one or more so called \"back doors\". These are access provisions that are hard to find for system administrators, and they serve to prevent the logging and monitoring that results from normal use of the network. A back door may be a concealed account or an account of which the privileges have been escalated. Or it may be a utility for remote access, such as Telnet, that has been configured to operate with a port number that is not customary.\n\nThe network intruder then proceeds with stealing files, or stealing credit card information, or preparing a computer to send spam emails at will. Another goal is to prepare for the next intrusion. A cautious intruder is protective against discovery of his or her location. The method of choice is to use a computer that already has been attacked as an intermediary. Some intruders use a series of intermediate computers, making it impracticable to locate them.\n\nThe purpose of a back door is to maintain a communication channel and having methods to control a host that has been gained entry to. These methods include those for file transfer and the execution of programs. It is often important to make sure that the access or communication remains secret. And access control is desirable in order to prevent others from using the back door.\n\nBack Orifice 2000 was designed as a back door. The server runs on Windows, and there are clients for Windows, Linux and other operating systems. The server is configured easily with a utility. After configuration, the server needs to be uploaded to the target and then started. Back Orifice 2000 supports file transfer, file execution, logging of keystrokes, and control of connections. There is also an AES plug-in for traffic encryption and an STCPIO plug-in for further obfuscation of the traffic. The first plug-in adds security and the combination of these plug-ins makes it much harder for an IDS to relate the traffic to a back door. More information can be found at http://www.bo2k.com.\n\nRootkits specialize in hiding themselves and other programs.\n\nHacker Defender (hxdef) is an open source rootkit for Windows. It can hide its files, its process, its registry entries, and its port in multiple DLLs. Although it has a simple command-line interface as a back door, it is often better to use its ability to hide a more appropriate tool.\n\n\nAn unprotected wireless network is extremely insecure. From anywhere within broadcast range, someone can eavesdrop or start using the network. Therefore, the IEEE 802.11 standard for wireless networks was accompanied with Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP). This security protocol takes care of the following:\nWEP has been criticized by security experts. Most experts regard it as ineffective by now.\n\nIn 2004 a draft for a better security protocol appeared, and it was included in the IEEE 802.11 standard in 2007. This new protocol, WPA2, uses an AES block cipher instead of the RC4 algorithm and has better procedures for authentication and key distribution. WPA2 is much more secure than WEP, but WEP was still in wide use in 2009.\n\nMany wireless routers also support controlling the MAC addresses of computers that are authorized to use a wireless network. This measure can effectively stop a neighbour from using the network, but experienced intruders will not be stopped. MAC filtering can be attacked because a MAC address can be faked easily.\n\nIn the past, turning off the broadcasting of the SSID has also been thought to give security to a wireless network. This is not the case however. Freely available tools exist that quickly discover an SSID that is not broadcast. Microsoft has also determined that switching off the broadcasting of the SSID leads to less security. Details can be found in \"Non-broadcast Wireless Networks with Microsoft Windows\".\n\nReturning to encryption, the WEP specification at any encryption strength is unable to withstand determined hacking. Therefore, Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) was derived from WEP. Software upgrades are often available. The latest devices that conform to the 802.11g or 802.11n standards also support WPA2. (WPA uses the TKIP encryption, WPA2 uses the stronger AES method.) It is recommended to use only hardware that supports WPA or WPA2.\n\nInstalling updates regularly, disabling WPS, setting a custom SSID, requiring WPA2, and using a strong password make a wireless router more difficult to crack. Even so, unpatched security flaws in a router's software or firmware may still be used by an attacker to bypass encryption and gain control of the device. Many router manufacturers do not always provide security updates in a timely manner, or at all, especially for more inexpensive models.\n\nWPS currently has a severe vulnerability in which the 8 pin numbered (0-9) passwords being used can easily be split into two halves, this means that each half can be brute-forced individually and so the possible combinations are greatly lessened (10^4 + 10^4, as opposed to 10^8). This vulnerability has been addressed by most manufacturers these days by using a lock down \nmechanism where the router will automatically lock its WPS after a number of failed pin attempts (it can take a number of hours before the router will automatically unlock, some even have to be rebooted which can make WPS attacks completely obsolete). Without a lock down feature, a WPA2 router with WPS enabled can easily be cracked in 5 hours using a brute force WPS attack.\n\nSSID's are used in routers not only to identify them within the mass of 2.4, 3.6, 5 and 60 GHz frequencies which are currently flying around our cities, but are also used as a \"seed\" for the router's password hashes. Standard and popular SSID's such as \"Netgear\" can be brute forced through the use of rainbow tables, however, it should be noted that the use of a salt greatly improves security against rainbow tables. The most popular method of WPA and WPA2 cracking is through obtaining what's known as a \"4 way handshake\". when a device is connecting with a network\nthere is a 4-stage authorization process referred to as a 4 way handshake. When a wireless device undergoes this process this handshake is sent through the air and can easily be monitored and saved by an external system. The handshake will be encrypted by the router's password, this means that as opposed to communicating with the router directly (which can be quite slow), the cracker can attempt to brute force the handshake itself using dictionary attacks. A device that is connected directly with the router will still undergo this very process, however, the handshake will be sent through the connected wire as opposed to the air so it cannot be intercepted. If a 4 way handshake has already been intercepted, it does not mean that the cracker will be granted immediate access however. If the password used contains at least 12 characters consisting of both random upper and lower case letters and numbers that do not spell a word, name or have \nany pattern then the password will be essentially uncrackable. Just to give an example of this, let's just take the minimum of 8 characters for WPA2 and suppose we take upper case and lower case letters, digits from 0-9 and a small selection of symbols, we can avail of a hefty choice of 64 characters. In an 8 character length password this is a grand total of 64^8 \npossible combinations. Taking a single machine that could attempt 500 passwords per second, this gives us just about 17,900 years to attempt every possible combination. Not even to mention the amount of space necessary to store each combination in a dictionary.\n\nNote:\nThe use of MAC filtering to protect your network will not work as MACs using the network can be easily detected and spoofed.\n\n\nA network scanner or sniffer is an application program that makes use of a wireless network interface card. It repeatedly tunes the wireless card successively to a number of radio channels. With a passive scanner this pertains only to the receiver of the wireless card, and therefore the scanning cannot be detected.\n\nAn attacker can obtain a considerable amount of information with a passive scanner, but more information may be obtained by sending crafted frames that provoke useful responses. This is called active scanning or probing. Active scanning also involves the use of the transmitter of the wireless card. The activity can therefore be detected and the wireless card can be located.\n\nDetection is possible with an intrusion detection system for wireless networks, and locating is possible with suitable equipment.\n\nWireless intrusion detection systems are designed to detect anomalous behaviour. They have one or more sensors that collect SSIDs, radio channels, beacon intervals, encryption, MAC addresses, transmission speeds, and signal-to-noise ratios. Wireless intrusion detection systems maintain a registry of MAC addresses with which unknown clients are detected.\n\n\nMaking use of someone else's wireless access point or wireless router to connect to the internet – without the owner's consent in any way – is not punishable by criminal law in The Netherlands. This is true even if the device uses some form of access protection. To penetrate someone else's computer without the owner's consent is punishable by criminal law though.\n\nThere is consensus that computer attackers can be divided in the following groups.\n\nThe term \"hacker\" was originally used for someone who could modify a computer for his or her own purposes. \"Hacking\" is an intrusion combined with direct alteration of the security or data structures of the breached system. The word hacking is often confused with cracking in popular media discourse, and obfuscates the fact that hacking is less about eavesdropping and more related to interference and alteration. However, because of the consistent abuse by the news media, in 2007 the term hacker was commonly used for someone who accesses a network or a computer without authorization of the owner.\n\nIn 2011, \"Collins Dictionary\" stated that the word hacker can mean a computer fanatic, in particular one who by means of a personal computer breaks into the computer system of a company, government, or the like. It also denoted that in that sense the word hacker is slang. Slang words are not appropriate in formal writing or speech.\n\nComputer experts reserve the word hacker for a very clever programmer. They call someone who breaks into computers an intruder, attacker, or cracker.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27277206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27277206", "title": "El Defensor del Obrero", "text": "El Defensor del Obrero\n\nEl Defensor del Obrero ('The Defender of the Worker') was a newspaper published in Montevideo, Uruguay. The newspaper carried the byline \"The first scientific socialist periodical in Montevideo\". \"El Defensor del Obrero\" was published between August 25, 1895 and February 2, 1896. The editors of the newspaper included José Capalán (president of the Marble Workers Union) and Muvo Luzzoni.\n"}
{"id": "1256759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1256759", "title": "Eurodusnie Collective", "text": "Eurodusnie Collective\n\nThe Eurodusnie Collective is an anarchist collective based in Leiden, The Netherlands. It was established in 1997, against the background of an EU summit in Amsterdam. A small school was squatted for the purpose of holding a 'counter summit' as a protest over the official EU summit. From that, a more permanent anarchist project evolved.\n\nEurodusnie (which translates the Dutch as: \"Euro? No way!\" as well as being a pun on Eurodisney) currently runs a number of projects in Leiden, including a give-away shop, a vegan cafe and a magazine entitled 'Geen Paniek' (Don't Panic). Eurodusnie also convened the 2nd European Peoples' Global Action (PGA) conference in 2002. \n\nAt any given time, the Eurodusnie Collective counts between 10 and 20 active members. Nominally at least, it is a direct democratic initiative, which means decisions are taken on a consensual basis. In practice, Eurodusnie has been marred by in-fighting and internal strife and many people have joined and left the Collective over the years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55241036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55241036", "title": "Filip Cabinet", "text": "Filip Cabinet\n\nThe Filip Cabinet is the current Cabinet of Moldova, led by Pavel Filip. It was inaugurated on 20 January 2016.\n\nAfter the dismissal of previous cabinet, no consensus was reached by the three pro-European parliamentary parties - Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova (PLDM), Democratic Party of Moldova (PDM), and Liberal Party (PL). A new political crisis began. After on early 21 December 2015 Vlad Plahotniuc has announced his return in politics and in the Democratic Party, stating that he \"will participate directly in the process of forming a new parliamentary majority [...] which also will succeed to gain all the needed votes for the election of the president in the next March\" (2016), a few hours later, in the morning of 21 December 2015, a group of 14 communist MPs have announced that they were leaving the communist faction in parliament and will form a new parliamentary group - \"The Social Democratic Platform for Moldova\" (\"Platforma Social Democrată Pentru Moldova\"), and later PDM and the group of former communists MPs began discussions regarding the formation of a new parliamentary majority.\n\nOn 13 January 2016 the newly formed parliamentary majority nominated Vlad Plahotniuc for the function of Prime Minister of Moldova, however, the president of Moldova Nicolae Timofti has rejected the candidature with a rationale which says that \"\"there are reasonable suspicions that Mr. Vladimir Plahotniuc does not meet the criteria of integrity necessary for his appointment as Prime Minister, considering also that by the Decision no. 5 of 15.02.2013 of the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, published in the Official Gazette on 22.02.2013, Mr. Vladimir Plahotniuc expressed a vote of mistrust in his capacity as first deputy chairman of the Parliament, accusing him of involvement in illegal activities that are prejudicial to the image of the Parliament, and the Republic of Moldova\"”.\n\nLater Nicolae Timofti designated Ion Păduraru for the function of Prime Minister, but after Păduraru gave up, the parliamentary majority has nominated Pavel Filip - former Minister of Informational Technologies and Communications. During the parliamentary meeting, a group of protesters gathered in front of the Parliament building that demanded the interruption of the vote. After the president appointed Filip as Prime Minister of Moldova and Filip Cabinet was inaugurated in night, a series of protests was resumed. The cabinet headed by Filip was voted by 57 of 101 MPs: all 20 Democratic Party MPs, 13 Liberal Party MPs, 14 former communist (PCRM) MPs, 8 PLDM MPs, and another 2 former PLDM MPs.\n\nOn 13 December 2016, PL chairman, Mihai Ghimpu, withdrew the political support to Anatol Șalaru (minister of defense). After the newly-elected president Igor Dodon was sworn in, on 27 December he signed the decree on the dismissal of Șalaru from the position of Minister of Defense. Since then, deputy minister Gheorghe Galbura was acting minister of defense.\n\nOn 15 March 2017, the formally independent minister of Agriculture and Food Industry Eduard Grama (a close person to Liberal Democratic Party of Moldova) was retained in an alleged corruption case. Few days later, Grama resigns from the office, and on 20 March president Dodon formally signs his dismissal decree.\n\nIn late April 2017 the anti-corruption prosecutors and the CNA officers retained liberal minister of Transport and Roads Infrastructure Iurie Chirinciuc, suspecting him in corruption acts.\n\nAfter on 25 May 2017 the liberal mayor of Chișinău Dorin Chirtoacă was retained by the anti-corruption prosecutors and National Anti-Corruption Center officers, on 26 May, PL chairman Mihai Ghimpu has announced that Liberal Party leaves the government coalition. Later, on 29 May, three liberal ministers: Deputy Prime Minister on Social Affairs - Gheorghe Brega, Ministry of Education - Corina Fusu, and Ministry of Environment - Valeriu Munteanu, and their liberal deputy ministers, have announced that they resign from their posts. Next day president Dodon signed the decrees for their dismissals, and one more decree for the liberal Minister of Transport and Roads Infrastructure of Moldova Iurie Chirinciuc, who at that moment was placed under home arrest.\n\nIn the summer of 2017 a reform of the government was conducted, and following the transfers of powers, nine ministries remained out 16 ones, and no more liberal ministers remained in the cabinet componence. The reform was criticized by the parliamentary opposition. In September 2017 president Dodon rejected two times the candidature of Eugen Sturza (from European People's Party of Moldova) for the office of Minister of Defence, nominee by cabinet, arguing by \"lack of competence in domain\". Later, on 24 October 2017, the President of Parliament of Moldova, Andrian Candu, as acting President of Moldova, has signed the decree for naming Sturza as Minister of Defence.\n\nThe cabinet was reshuffled on 20 December 2017. Six ministers were dismissed in an attempt to reform the government.\n\n \"The First House\" Program\n\nIn November 2017, the First House Program was launched. The purpose of the program is to facilitate the access of individuals to purchasing a dwelling by contracting partially-state-guaranteed bank loans, especially for young families. The program has become functional in March 2018. Analysts have previously commented, that the program advantages the owners of construction companies, thus guaranteeing them more customers. The Finance Minister declined then to comment on these assumptions. Until now, some 202 people have already received credits for house purchase under the \"First House\" program.\n\nIn May 2018, the First House program 2 is started, exclusively for civil servants who have at least one year worked in state institutions. About 5,000 public servants could conclude such contracts this year, as the state has proposed to allocate 20 million lei for this program. The aim of the program is to motivate young people to work in budgetary institutions.\n\nLater in July 2018, the First House Program is expanding to make it more accessible to families with more children. The \"First Home\" 3 project assume the gradual offsetting from the state budget of the mortgage loan, from 10 to 100%, depending on the number of children in the family.\n\nThe \"Good Roads for Moldova\" Program\n\nIn 2018, the Government will ensure the repair and construction of 1200 km of roads in rural areas within the national program \"Good Roads for Moldova\", regardless of the political color of the localities. The Government approved the budget of the \"Good Roads for Moldova\" program, being allocated 972 million lei , with the repair works being carried out in over 1200 villages. The Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure launched the \"Good Roads for Moldova\" online map. The map contains up-to-date information for each district about the amount of work to be done, the stage of implementation of the project, how many road sections have been restored, are in work or are to be repaired, what is the volume of the investments, type of works performed, etc. The online map can be viewed on www.drumuribune.md.\n\nGovernment Reform\n\nOn July 26, 2017, the Government of the Republic of Moldova entered a new stage, in the context of voting on July 21, 2017, by Parliament of the new structure of the Executive. Thus, following the transfers of competences, from 16 ministries remained 9 ministries. Government reform has generated more criticism about the process of drafting and implementing this initiative. \nThe list of indicated ministries results from the change of name and taking over some areas of activity, as follows:\n\n\nIn the Government meeting of August 30, 2017, the Regulation for the organization and functioning of the new ministries was approved, containing the organigram, the central office structure, the areas of competence and the limit staff. From the subordination of the ministries, all state-owned or with majority state-owned capital enterprises were removed so that ministers were more focused on policies. Undertakings are in charge of the Public Property Agency, which is subordinated to the Government.\n\nInformation Technology Park \"Moldova IT Park\"\n\nOn January 1, 2017, entered into force the Law no. 77, regarding IT parks. On October 26, 2017, 15 ATIC companies submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Infrastructure of Moldova an application for the establishment of \"Moldova IT Park\". Subsequently, on December 20, 2017, the Government approved the Regulation for the organization and operation of the Park Administration and the Residents Registration Regulations.\n\nOn January 1, 2018, Moldova's First IT Park - \"Moldova IT Park\", founded for 10 years, was created, the period, in which it plans to attract about 400 IT companies from the Republic of Moldova. The main purpose of the new structure is to provide an organizational platform with a set of innovative mechanisms and facilities to boost the growth of the information technology industry, create new jobs and attract local and foreign investment. The administrator is appointed by the Government for a term of 5 years.\n\nThe director of the \"Ritlabs\" Company, Maxim Masiutin, said that the IT Park offers attractive conditions for employees who will receive the full salary indicated in the individual labor contract without any taxes. In turn, programmer Vitalie Esanu, an IT expert, said that such schemes create opportunities for corruption.\n\nIn the first four months of the launch of \"Moldova IT Park\" 164 residents were registered. Among the facilities and tax incentives granted to residents of IT parks, the biggest burden is, for current and potential residents, the single tax of 7% of sales revenue and the removal of bureaucratic barriers.\n\nThe advantages of the IT business environment in our country were presented in Iași, Romania, at the PinAwards regional forum. During the event, the Republic of Moldova was presented as an attractive destination for IT companies, mentioning the benefits of the law on IT Parks.\n\nLaunching the Service 112\n\n\"112\" is the unique number for emergency calls,<ref name=\"Old.mtic.gov.md/ro/projects/numarul-unic-de-urgenta-112_2018-09-07\"></ref> active in all EU Member States.\nIt operates on a non-stop basis and can be called absolutely free of charge by every citizen from the fixed and mobile phones.\nThe \"112 Service\" project was launched in May 2012. The new system automates all processes through state-of-the-art software. The Republic of Moldova is the second country to use this modern software. The service 112 is tasked with managing much more complex cases for rapid interventions.\nOn 29 March 2018, the Unique National Service for Emergency Calls 112 was launched 112. Prime Minister Pavel Filip said at the launch event that \"It is a beautiful project, initiated in 2012. It is a soul initiative for me. Its implementation lasted several years, yet we launch the Service nine months ahead than was expected. Through it, we will provide citizens with modern services just like in the countries of the European Union \".\nThe Government approved the Interaction Rules between the Single National Service for Emergency Calls 112 and Emergency Specialised Services to ensure immediate intervention by rescuers, doctors or police officers to provide the necessary assistance.<ref name=\"Lex.justice.md/index.php?action=view&view=doc&lang=1&id=363672_2018-09-07\"></ref> \nThe Regulation provides for a clear delimitation of the duties of the 112 and Emergency Specialised Services - the Emergency Medical Service, the General Police Inspectorate and the General Emergency Inspectorate.\nBasic skills of the 112 Service include the reception, management and processing of emergency calls throughout the Republic of Moldova, completing emergency call records and the centralization, storage and access to managed data under the Automatized Information System of the Service 112.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "36056315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36056315", "title": "Hindustan Zindabad", "text": "Hindustan Zindabad\n\nHindustan Zindabad (, , Lit. \"Long live Hindustan\") is a Hindustani phrase and battle cry most commonly used in India in speeches and communications pertaining to or referring to patriotism towards India. It translates to \"Long Live India\". It is a nationalistic slogan, and has been used in nationalist protests such as radical peasant movements in post-colonial India. Other variations of the slogan are Jai Hind and India Zindabad. Such slogans are common while cheering the Indian team in cricket matches.\n\nThe word \"Hindustan\" generally refers to the Republic of India since 1947. It is conventionally believed to be derived from the Old Persian word \"Hindu\", which in turn is derived from \"Sindhu\", the Sanskrit name for the Indus River. Old Persian refers to the people living beyond the Indus as \"Hinduš\". This combined with the Avestan suffix \"-stān\" (cognate to Sanskrit \"sthān\", both meaning \"place\") results in \"Hindustan\", as the land on the other side (from Persia) of the Indus. \n\n\"Zindabad\" (may [idea, person, country] live forever) is a typical Urdu and Persian suffix that is placed after a person or a country name. It is used to express victory, patriotism or as a prayer.\n\nThe slogan \"Hindustan Zindabad\", and its counterpart, \"Pakistan Zindabad\", were used during the partition of India in episodes of sexual violence against women: the slogans were often tattooed on the bodies of victims of collective rapes.\n\nThe slogan was used in \"\", in which the protagonist, Tara Singh (Sunny Deol), is asked to shout \"Hindustan Murdhabad\" (death to India) in Pakistan, but he proclaims \"Hindustan Zindabad\", uproots a hand pump, and kills a few attacking locals.\n\n"}
{"id": "36942639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36942639", "title": "IASME", "text": "IASME\n\nIASME is an Information Assurance standard that is designed to be simple and affordable to help improve the cyber security of Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). \n\nThe IASME Governance controls are aligned with the Cyber Essentials scheme and certification to the IASME standard usually includes certification to Cyber Essentials. The standard was developed in 2010 and has proven to be very effective at improving the security of supply chains for large organisations.\n\nIASME Governance was originally developed as an academic-SME partnership that attracted a lot of interest from government and small businesses \n\nResearch towards the IASME model was undertaken in the UK during 2009-10, after an acknowledgement that the current international information assurance standard () was complex for resource-strapped SMEs, providing a weakness in the supply chain. IASME was developed during 2010-11 and was launched later that year. It has been revised regularly to keep pace with changes to the risk environmnent of SMEs. The development process with SMEs was explained in a published international SME conference paper.\n\nThe IASME Governance standard follows the same implementation pattern used by the international standards community including PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) principles and the Information Security Management System (ISMS) which provides a management framework. Both are refined and expressed in business terms recognizable by most organisations.\n\nThe IASME Governance standard was developed and piloted with the help of small businesses mostly in the West Midlands of the UK with encouraging results. The standard has been shown to be useful to SMEs both in the UK and internationally. \n\nLarge organisations can use the IASME Governance standard in their supply chains to understand and reduce supplier risk. An article explaining the supply chain benefits has been written by its developer, David Booth. Both large and small organisations can use the IASME certification as an alternative to the ISO/IEC 27001 standard. \n\nThe standard is managed by The IASME Consortium Ltd who operate a network of around 150 Certification Bodies who are licensed to certify candidate organisations.\n\nThe standard is available at two levels of assurance: \n\nIn 2017, the standard was updated to include additional questions to enable organisations comply with the General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).\n\nIASME Governance is a risk-led standard with a similar set of controls as the ISO/IEC 27001 standard. A document is available from IASME that shows this comparison\n\nIASME Governance maps very closely to the UK Government's NCSC 10 Steps to Cyber Security. A mapping between the two standards is available\n\nThe Cyber Assessment Framework (CAF) has been developed by the UK Government to allow organisations to demonstrate their compliance to the NIS Directive. The IASME Governance Standard maps closely to the CAF.\n\nThe IASME standard has become a focus of attention, as the information security threat to UK businesses continues to increase, and vulnerabilities in their systems continue to cause expensive data breaches and system failures. The increasing number of newspaper and journal articles on this subject reflect an increased security awareness. \n\nIASME was specifically mentioned in a keynote speech at the Infosec Europe 2013 event held in London and received an innovation award from Computer Weekly Europe shortly afterwards.\n\nIt is recognised by the States of Jersey as suitable security standard for the government supply chain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4129872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129872", "title": "Institutionalism in political parties", "text": "Institutionalism in political parties\n\nParty Institutionalism is an approach that sees political parties as having some capacities for adaptation, but also sees them as being \"prisoners of their own history as an institution\". Aspects of the ideology that a party had when it was founded, persists even though the conditions and the party-base in society have changed. Scholars of this approach claim that the party's history determines how the party adapts to modern day challenges.\n\nThe left–right is still central in order to understand a party's policy, but the core of these theories is to compare the party's beliefs and values today with the ones at their founding. In analyzing a party's ideological orientation we must begin by analyzing the very origin of the party.\n\nOne framework within this tradition is offered by Klaus von Beyme who identifies nine party-groups, or \"familles spirituelles\", that can be found in European liberal democracies today:\n\n\nVon Beyme claims that at the time of their founding these parties reflected the needs to defend a particular kind of interests, but recognized that not every European party could be fitted into this schema. He has been criticized of being tempted to try to fit too many parties into this schema, when in reality there is not grounds for doing so. It needs to be said as well that quite many of the European parties classified into the categories above are regarded as having more or less lost contact with their original \"famille spirituelle\".\n\nConsequently one can wonder what, eg, the British Conservatives today have in common with their founding fathers hundreds of years ago, taking into account New Right ideas and certain aspects of liberalism applied by the party. Likewise the Norwegian Social Democratic party is widely held to have moved away drastically from its inception as a socialist party in 1889. Today this party has assumed more of a centralist role (regarding for instance issues like state ownership as well as abandoning their corporatist ties with the Norwegian Trade Association).\n\nOne might ask what the point is of classifying the parties into these categories when they do not fit. The answer would be that one should look at the broad picture, and use von Beyme’s tool to make sense of certain tendencies in European politics.\nHowever, it would also be important to recognize the fact that western European societies have changed tremendously in course of the last decades regarding a number of issues. Therefore, by identifying these factors one might also broaden the understanding of the generally changing patterns of party- ideology in Europe today, compared to the 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "30275377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30275377", "title": "International Open Government Data Conference", "text": "International Open Government Data Conference\n\nLasting from November 15, 2010 to November 17, 2010, The International Open Government Data Conference was a conference sponsored by the United States General Services Administration and hosted by the United States Department of Commerce on the subject of open datasets globally, in coalition with the United States' previously opened data.gov.\n\nPresentations on the subject of many global nations, including New Zealand's set up of a dataset website and Australia's presentation stressing identity security.\n\nMany presenters appeared at the event, including the host, the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Department of Commerce, Jay Reich. Other notable attendees included:\n\n"}
{"id": "39820127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39820127", "title": "Jimmy Reid Foundation", "text": "Jimmy Reid Foundation\n\nThe Jimmy Reid Foundation is a left-wing think tank and advocacy group operating in Scotland. It was established in memory of Jimmy Reid, a well-known trade union activist, by the Editorial Board of the Scottish Left Review. It was officially launched on the first anniversary of Reid's death on 10 August 2011, with its activities focusing primarily upon the publication and dissemination of policy reports and an annual lecture (of which Alex Salmond, Len McCluskey and Nicola Sturgeon have been the first to deliver). The Foundation is run by a Project Board, a Director and Convenor, with an array of patrons including the likes of Alex Ferguson and Aamer Anwar.\n\nThe agenda of the Foundation is to promote and develop a form of socialism and social democracy in line with the views and perspective of Jimmy Reid. However, the Foundation is independent of any of the political parties that Reid was a member or supporter of, namely, the Communist, Labour and SNP parties. The Foundation's highest-profile project, started in 2013, is the \"Common Weal\", a blueprint for an independent Scotland following the Nordic model of social security. The blueprint was set to be discussed at the Scottish National Party's annual conference in 2013, and was backed by figures such as Dennis Canavan and Jim Mather.\n\nThe \"Common Weal\" was also discussed at Labour for Independence's first conference in July 2013.\n\nIn August 2013, the Jimmy Reid Foundation led calls for a memorial to be erected in honour of those who opposed the outbreak of World War I. Its \"alternative World War One Commemoration Committee\" identified John Wheatley, John Maclean, Mary Barbour, Helen Crawfurd, Jimmy Maxton, Agnes Dollan, Willie Gallacher, Rev James Barr, and Keir Hardie in its list of prominent opponents of the war.\n\nFollowing the departure of the Foundation's first director, Robin McAlpine, to concentrate on the Common Weal, the Foundation has concentrated on a smaller number of projects, attempting to gain more subsequent follow through on each of those. The Foundation's work is initiated and monitored by its Project Board consisting of representatives from a number of unions (PCS, UNISON, Unite) as well as progressive and radical academics and policy analysts.\n\nThe website of the Foundation carries all its reports and publications \n\n"}
{"id": "25809865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25809865", "title": "Kompromat", "text": "Kompromat\n\nIn Russian culture, , short for \"compromising material\" (), is damaging information about a politician, a businessman, or other public figure, used to create negative publicity, as well as for blackmail and extortion. Kompromat may be acquired from various security services, or outright forged, and then publicized by use of a public relations official. Widespread use of has been one of the characteristic features of the politics of Russia and other post-Soviet states.\n\nThe term is a borrowing of the Russian KGB slang term from the Stalin era, which is short for \"compromising material\" (). It refers to disparaging information that can be collected, stored, traded, or used strategically across all domains: political, electoral, legal, professional, judicial, media, and business. The origins of the term trace back to 1930s secret police jargon.\n\nIn the early days, featured doctored photographs, planted drugs, grainy videos of liaisons with prostitutes hired by the KGB, and a wide range of other primitive entrapment techniques. However, more contemporary forms of appear as a form of cybercrime. One aspect of that stands the test of time is that the compromising information is often sexual in nature.\n\n is part of the political culture in Russia, with many members of the business and political elite having collected and stored potentially compromising material on their political opponents. does not necessarily target individuals or groups, but rather collects information that could be useful at a later time. Compromising videos are produced long in advance when in need for leverage of people.\n\nOpposition research is conducted in the U.S. to find compromising material on political opponents so that such material may be released to weaken the opponents. differs, however, in that such information is used to exert influence over people.\n\nIn the 1950s, British civil servant John Vassall was a victim of a gay honey trap operation, producing which could be used against him since homosexuality was illegal in Britain at the time. During a 1957 visit to Moscow, American journalist Joseph Alsop also fell victim to a gay honey trap operation conducted by the KGB.\n\nIn 1997, was removed as the Russian Minister of Justice after photographs of him with prostitutes in a sauna controlled by the Solntsevskaya Bratva crime organization were published in a newspaper. In 1999, a video aired with a man resembling Yury Skuratov in bed with two women that later would lead to his dismissal as Prosecutor General of Russia. It was released after he began looking into charges of corruption by President Boris Yeltsin and his associates.\n\nIn August 2009, videos allegedly released by the FSB purportedly featured American diplomat Brendan Kyle Hatcher making telephone calls, presumably to a prostitute, then engaging in sexual activity with a woman. The United States Department of State protested that it was a doctored, unproven tape. In April 2010, politician Ilya Yashin and comedian Victor Shenderovich were involved in a sex scandal with a woman claimed to have acted as a Kremlin honey trap to discredit opposition figures. The video was released only two days before the wedding of Shenderovich's daughter.\n\nIn cases of during the early 21st century, Russian operatives have been suspected, or accused of, placing child pornography on the personal computers of individuals they were attempting to discredit. In 2015, the UK's Crown Prosecution Service announced that it would prosecute Vladimir Bukovsky for \"prohibited images\" found on his computer; however, the case against Bukovshy had been put on hold as investigators are trying to determine whether the pornographic images were planted.\n\nAhead of the 2016 Russian legislative election, a sex tape of Mikhail Kasyanov emerged on NTV.\n\nFollowing the 2016 U.S. presidential election, it emerged on 10 January 2017, that U.S. intelligence agencies were investigating possibly compromising personal and financial information on President-elect Donald Trump, leading to allegations that he and members of his administration may be vulnerable to manipulation by the Russian government. \n\nAt a joint press conference on 16 July 2018 both Trump and Putin were asked point blank whether Russia had on Trump. Neither answered \"no\". Putin responded:\nTrump simply answered \"It would have been out long ago\" before changing the subject and ending the press conference.\n\nBritish Labour Party MP Chris Bryant, an ex-chair of the all-party parliamentary group for Russia, who claims that the Russian government orchestrated a homophobic campaign to remove him from this position, has claimed that the Russian government has acquired on high-profile Conservative Party MPs including Boris Johnson, Liam Fox, Alan Duncan, and David Davis. Following a 2016 phone call between incoming-U.S. National Security Adviser Michael Flynn and Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak, Flynn allegedly lied to the White House on the extent of those contacts placing him in a position vulnerable to blackmail. According to congressional testimony delivered by former Acting U.S. Attorney General Sally Yates, the Department of Justice believed that \"General Flynn was compromised,\" and placed Flynn in “a situation where the national-security adviser essentially could be blackmailed by the Russians.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41389927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41389927", "title": "Kwak Yi-kyong", "text": "Kwak Yi-kyong\n\nKwak Yi-kyong (, born 1979) is a South Korean LGBT human rights activist, civil rights activist, and labor rights activist. From 2012 to the present, she has been a representative of Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea(SLRK). \n\nIn her early years, Kwak was involved with student movements. She was Vicechairman of Goryeo University's Students' Union. In 2002, she joined Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea (SLRK). From 2004 to 2005 Kwak was Secretary General of SLRK.\n\nIn 2005, she was appointed to Education responsible of LGBT minorities Committee (성소수자위원회) of the Democratic Labor Party. She was also involved with the labor rights, human rights, AIDS rights, and Anti-war peace movements. In 2011 Kwak was appointed to the LGBT minorities Committee of the Democratic Labor Party. In 2013, she became adjunct policy director of the National Women's Union (전국여성노조).\n\nIn 2012, she was operational chairperson (운영위원장) of SLRK. In 2013, she was chairperson of SLRK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41934029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41934029", "title": "LGBT history in Norway", "text": "LGBT history in Norway\n\nEvents in LGBT history in Norway include:\n\nThe penal code's paragraph 213 was the order for the punishment (\"straffebud\") of homosexual men. In June 1968 then minister of justice said that \"it is not stated, if the paragraph should be lifted [or removed]\". A different government came to power in 1969.\n\nIn 1970, a question was registered for interpellation in Parliament, by representative Arne Kielland. The Borten Government had no intent to answer the interpellation, but forwarded a law proposal about, age of sexual consent for gay males—18 years; the age limit for all other—16 years. (A different government came to power in March 1971.\n\nHomosexuality in Norway was decriminalised in 1972.\n\nIn 1979 Wenche Lowzow, MP came out of the closet.\n"}
{"id": "1188414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188414", "title": "League of Struggle for Negro Rights", "text": "League of Struggle for Negro Rights\n\nThe League of Struggle for Negro Rights was organized by the Communist Party in 1930 as the successor to the American Negro Labor Congress. The League was particularly active in organizing support for the \"Scottsboro Boys\", nine black men sentenced to death in 1931 for crimes they had not committed. It also campaigned for a separate black nation in the South, one of the CPUSA's principal tenets in the early 1930s, and against police brutality, the Italian occupation of Ethiopia and Jim Crow laws, while also advocating a more general policy of opposition to fascism and support for the Soviet Union.\n\nLangston Hughes became its President in 1934. Harry Haywood was its General Secretary. The organization largely disappeared after 1935, when the Communist Party, as part of its Popular Front strategy, joined with other non-communist organizations and individuals to form the National Negro Congress.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15839551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15839551", "title": "List of attacks in Lebanon", "text": "List of attacks in Lebanon\n\nStarting in 2004, a series of bombings and assassinations struck Lebanon, most of them in and around the capital, Beirut. This wave of bombings began with the assassination attempt on Marwan Hamadeh, then became more intense with the assassination of former Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri on February 14, 2005, which touched off the Cedar Revolution and the withdrawal of Syrian troops. After the massive protests following Hariri's killing, several more bombings hit Lebanon.\n\nThese bombings and assassinations came after September 2004, when the Lebanese Parliament was pressured by Syria to extend the term of pro-Syrian President Emile Lahoud through a constitutional amendment. The MPs, journalists, and activists that opposed this term extension were subject to slander, harassment and, in many cases, assassination attempts. Since 2013 most of the bombings were not related to the Cedar Revolution but rather a spillover of the Syrian civil war.\n\nThis list is limited to bombings and assassinations; it does not include other form of attacks. It is presented in chronological order. All entries must be cited or have their own article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe assassinations and bombings listed above occurred after September 2004, in the aftermath of the forced term extension of the pro-Syrian Lebanese President Emile Lahoud. The events listed below had nothing to do with the extension of Emile Lahoud's presidential term, and most of them occurred long before.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39305268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39305268", "title": "Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church", "text": "Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church\n\nLocal Council of the Russian Orthodox Church () is an assembly of bishops and other clergy and laity, and sometimes, the local church, or some of its areas for discussion and resolution of issues and affairs doctrine, religious and moral life, device management and discipline.\n\nBefore the 20th century, the term \"local council\" was used extensively in the Russian historical literature to refer to private (non-ecumenical) councils of antiquity.\nAlthough the term and was used in the 19th century, and also to refer to the local councils of the Russian Church, and even in the phrase \"all-Russian Local Council\", the widespread use of the term in the modern sense, it's the beginning of the 20th century in preparation for the All-Russian Council of the Orthodox Russian Church, which opened in August 1917, more than half of the council were laymen.\nLater regulations of the Russian Orthodox Church understand the local council as a collection of bishops and other representatives of the clergy, religious and laity of the local Russian Orthodox Church.\n"}
{"id": "20580276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20580276", "title": "MANAPO", "text": "MANAPO\n\nThe Macedonian National Movement (abbreviated MANAPO) (, transliterated: \"Makedonski Nacionalen Pokret\") was a leftist movement started in 1936 among the progressive Macedonian students in the Belgrade and Zagreb universities in the period between the World Wars. \n\nMANAPO's aims were to help bring about democracy in Yugoslavia and to fight for the right to self-determination of the Bulgarians in Vardar Macedonia. The official historiography in post-1945 Yugoslavia and present-day Republic of Macedonia plays down the Bulgarian nature of this organization and claims that MANAPO's platform was based on the awaking of the Macedonian national conscience among the Macedonian Slavic-speaking population, the affirmation of the Macedonian language as well as fight against the Serbian hegemony and fascism.\n\nWhen MANAPO was dissolved in the beginning of the Second World War, with some of its members entering the ranks of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, while others felt the aims of the organization had been established with the \"liberation\" of Vardar Macedonia by Bulgaria in 1941.\n"}
{"id": "20261302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261302", "title": "Manx National Party", "text": "Manx National Party\n\nThe Manx National Party was an offshoot of Mec Vannin, a nationalist party in the Isle of Man. Divisions within Mec Vannin caused the split in 1977, and the single Mec Vannin member of the House of Keys (Peter Craine) transferred his loyalties to the new party. When Craine ceased to be an MHK in 1981 the Manx National Party soon ceased to exist.\n"}
{"id": "12976365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12976365", "title": "Marc Gopin", "text": "Marc Gopin\n\nMarc Gopin, scholar and practitioner, is the director of the Center for World Religions, Diplomacy and Conflict Resolution (CRDC), and James H. Laue Professor at the School of Conflict Analysis and Resolution at George Mason University Arlington, Virginia, USA. The Association of Conflict Resolution recently awarded Gopin The Peacemaker Award for his contribution to the Conflict Resolution Field. Note that, in 2008 he also received the Andrew Thomas Peacebuilder Award from the New York State Dispute Resolution Association (NYSDRA). Gopin has pioneered peacebuilding projects at CRDC and trained thousands of peacebuilders in Afghanistan, Iran, Syria, Palestine and Israel on strategies to address complex conflicts. He studies dilemmas of values in global conflicts and diverse contexts where religion and culture play a crucial role in conflicts and conflict resolution.\n\nGopin's particular emphasis is on the role of religion and culture in not only key to conflict, but is critical to reaching lasting resolution between peoples and nations. Widely recognized for his lectures and training on peacemaking strategies, Gopin has worked in Ireland, Israel, India, Switzerland, and Italy, and has presented at Harvard, Yale, Columbia, and Princeton Universities. He has also engaged in back channel diplomacy with religious, political, and military figures on both sides of entrenched conflicts, especially in the Israel-Palestine conflict, Jordan, and Syria\n\nGopin got his B.A. in European Intellectual History from Columbia College in 1979. In 1983, Gopin was ordained as a rabbi at Yeshiva University, where he was a student of Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik. Though ordained as an Orthodox rabbi, he eventually stopped identifying with any Jewish denomination. He received his M.A. from Brandeis University in 1988 where he also got his PhD in 1992 from the Department of Near Eastern and Judaic Studies. His dissertation Topic: The Religious Ethics of Samuel David Luzzatto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17065226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17065226", "title": "Marriage bar", "text": "Marriage bar\n\nA marriage bar is the custom and practice of restricting the employment of married women in general or in particular professions or occupations; sometimes the practice called for the termination of employment of a woman on her marriage, especially in teaching, clerical and other occupations, and sometimes widowed women with children were still considered to be married preventing them from being hired.\n\nThe practice never had an economic justification, and its rigid application could be disruptive to workplaces. It was justified during depression years as a social policy to find jobs for more family units, but the policy persisted beyond such economic times. The practice was common in some Western countries from the late 19th century to the 1970s. Marriage bars created a disincentive for women to marry, at least until they were ready to give up work, and some women, including Ruby Payne-Scott, kept their marriage secret to keep their jobs. Marriage bars did not affect employment in lower paid jobs, and therefore lowered incentives for women to acquire education. Marriage bars were widely relaxed in wartime.\n\nSince the 1960s, the practice has widely been regarded as employment inequality and sexual discrimination, and has widely been either discontinued or outlawed by anti-discrimination laws which may also deal with discrimination based on marital status. In the Netherlands, the marriage bar was removed in 1957, and in Ireland it was instituted in 1932 and removed in 1973. Since 1975, female officers of the British Geological Survey no longer have to resign upon getting married.\n\nGenerally, marriage bars can be classified as the “hire bar” preventing the hiring of married women, and the “retain bar” preventing the retention of married workers.\n\nMarriage bars also meant that often female employees were classified as supplementary staff, rather than permanent. This was the case, for example, at Lloyds Bank until 1949, when the bank abolished its marriage bar.\n\nA 1946 article in \"The Spectator\", a British conservative magazine, gave (and dismissed) a few reasons for the implementation of the marriage bars. Arguments included: women who were married were supported by their husbands, therefore they did not need jobs. Marriage bars provided more opportunity for those whom proponents viewed as \"actually\" needing employment, such as single women. Another argument \"The Spectator\" makes states unmarried women are more reliable and mobile than married women. As single women did not have a family or other pressing responsibilities, they were more reliable and flexible than married women. The last point made by this magazine involves the turnover rate. The turnover rate for women in these jobs was high because lots of young single women eventually got married. Since they did not hold their positions very long, it gave them less of an opportunity for advancement and promotions.\n\nMarriage bars were connected to social and economic fluctuations, for example, after the end of World War I, returning servicemen who wanted jobs, and afterwards the depression in the 1930s, led to the implementation of marriage bars in many professions during the interbellum period. However, marriage bars were often justified on moral grounds, especially in places where there was a very strong tradition of married women staying at home and being housewives, something more common in rich countries, such as, for instance, the Netherlands.\n\n\"Women's History Matters\" states that marriage bars had some exceptions. Contrary to urban areas, rural areas needed teachers so they were willing to hire married women. Schools were also willing to hire women if they could prove that their husbands were “invalid, insane, or unable to provide for the family\". Marriage bars were less strict during World War II, because the women were needed again for these jobs. For example, in Montana, 1500 women were welcomed back into the school systems for the duration of World War II only. Around the time of WW ll 87% of school boards would not hire married women and 70% would not retain a single woman who married. But later on in 1951 18% of the school boards had the \"hire bar\" and 10% had the \"retain bar\". Marriage bars only applied to educated, middle-class married women, particularly native born white women. Their occupations were that of teaching, and clerical work. These occupations were most needed and required in secondary school education. Meanwhile, lower class women of colour who took jobs in manufacturing, waitressing, and domestic servants were unaffected by marriage bans. Discrimination against married female teachers in the US was not terminated until 1964 with the passing of the Civil Rights Act.\n\nThe BBC had a marriage bar between 1932 and 1944, although it was a partial ban and was not fully enforced due to the BBC's ambivalent views on the policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "12594461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12594461", "title": "Negotiated order", "text": "Negotiated order\n\nNegotiated order is an approach in sociology that is interested in how meaning is created and maintained in organizations. It has a particular focus on human interactions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24956706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24956706", "title": "Participation certificate", "text": "Participation certificate\n\nA Participation Certificate (PC) (also known as a Certificate of Participation) is a financial instrument, a form of financing, used by municipal or government entities which allows an individual to buy a share of the lease revenue of an agreement made by these entities. It is different from a bond issued by these agencies since participation certificates are secured by lease revenues. Municipal and government entities use this instrument to circumvent restrictions that might exist on the amount of debt in other forms they able to take on. \n\nParticipation certificates are also a new form of credit instrument whereby banks can raise funds from other banks and other central bank approved financial institutions to ease liquidity. In this case banks have the option to share their credit asset(s) with other banks by issuing participation certificates. With this participation approach, banks and financial institutions come together either on risk sharing or non-risk sharing basis. While providing short term funds, participation certificates can also be used to reduce risk. The rate at which these certificates can be issued will be negotiable depending on the interest rate scenario.\n"}
{"id": "36741752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36741752", "title": "Peace economics", "text": "Peace economics\n\nPeace economics is a specialized branch of economics. Peace economics focuses on the design of the sociosphere's political, economic, and cultural institutions and their interacting policies and actions with the goal of preventing, mitigating, or resolving violent conflict within and between societies. This violent conflict could be of any type and could involve either latent or actual violence. Presuming knowledge of the cost of violence, it focuses on the benefits of (re)constructing societies with a view toward achieving irreversible, stable peace. Together with approaches drawn from disciplines such as anthropology, sociology, psychology and cognitive science, geography and regional science, and political science and international relations, peace economics forms part of peace science, an evolving part of peace and conflict studies.\n\nPeace economics is distinct from both war economics and military economics, even though there may be substantial overlap between these disciplines. Peace economics is also distinct from conflict economics, and it is distinct from security economics. A key difference between peace economics and these related fields is that peace economics emphasizes a study of the presence of peace, as distinct from studying the absence or presence of conflict, violence, war, or insecurity.\n\nPeace economics has also been defined as \"the use of economics to understand the causes and effects of violent conflict in the international system and the ways that conflict can be avoided, managed, or resolved.\" This restricts the subject matter to the international realm and leaves out the study of peace itself. Walter Isard defines peace economics as \"generally concerned with: (1) resolution, management or reduction of conflict in the economic sphere, or among behaving units in their economic activity; (2) the use of economic measures and policy to cope with and control conflicts whether economic or not; and (3) the impact of conflict on the economic behavior and welfare of firms, consumers organizations, government and society.\" The notion of violence is absent and peace itself is not studied, but the level of analysis can be other than conflict between states. In a context restricted to international trade, another author writes that \"Peace economics studies ways to eradicate and control conflict as well as to assess conflict's impact on society.\" The notion of violence is not explicit and the benefits of peace are seen only inasmuch as a reduction of conflict may improve opportunities for expanded global trade. Others make a distinction between \"productive\" and \"unproductive\" or \"appropriative\" economic activities their starting point of analysis in peace economics.\n\nEconomics Nobelist Jan Tinbergen defines peace economics as \"economic science used for [a purpose that] prohibits [war] as an instrument of settling conflicts between nations and [to organize] the world in a way that warfare is punished\". Violence is addressed only at the level of sovereigns, not dealing with civil war or debilitating organized or individual-level criminal violence. In related work, Tinbergen writes about a world order that would inhibit violence and permit peace between and among states. In his view, this requires a \"world government\", a sentiment not now commonly agreed among economists. These definitions of peace economics all share Johan Galtung's characterization of negative peace (the absence of violent conflict) as opposed to positive peace (the presence of peace-enabling structures).\n\nA number of peace economists are explicit about the use of particular explanatory schema to be applied in peace economics, e.g., rational choice theory. In contrast, the main definition of peace economics is open to a variety of approaches. Virtually all authors acknowledge that peace economics is part of both positive economics and normative economics. While for most contemporary economists, work in positive economics may lead them to lay out a descriptive array or evaluation of policy choices from which one that is most valued is recommended to or chosen by policy makers, in peace economics, in contrast, it is the norm of peace to be achieved that inspires the search for a system design that can reliably deliver on the desired norm.\n\nPeace economics is built on general systems theory exemplified by the work of Kenneth Boulding. Earth may be viewed as a self-regulating (homeostatic) system, consisting of natural and social subsystems. In each, deviation from a set goal is self-corrected through feedback loops. Homeostatic systems are commonly observed in nature, such as in ecology and in the physiology of organisms (e.g., self-regulation of population sizes, self-regulation of body heat). The systems concept has been adopted in the engineering sciences, for example in designing thermostats. The user sets a desired goal state (temperature), the instrument measures the actual state, and for a deviation of sufficient degree a corrective action is taken (heating or cooling).\n\nRelatively new is the insight that social systems designed to achieve certain purposes (e.g., the retirement or pension system) imply a choice architecture that may permit failed or failing social systems to persist. Similarly, choice architecture may facilitate the (re)design of institutions aimed at securing beneficial social outcomes such as peace. This is social engineering applied to the problem of peace (peace engineering) and overlaps with ideas of mechanism design (reverse game theory) in which a solution is stipulated a priori and the structure of the game that would bring about the desired outcome is inferred. In this way, system design links back to normative economics.\n\nThe classical English liberals of the 19th century largely believed that free trade promoted peace. This view, attributed to Adam Smith and Edmund Burke, was evident in the advocacy of Richard Cobden and John Bright, and in the writings of the most prominent English economists and political thinkers of the 19th and early 20th centuries, such as John Stuart Mill and Alfred Marshall. John Maynard Keynes said that he was \"brought up\" on this idea. A prominent 20th century US exponent of this idea was the Secretary of State under President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Cordell Hull.\n\nUpon resigning from the United Kingdom's Treasury team at the Paris Peace Conference in June 1919, John Maynard Keynes penned a small book. Published in 1920, \"The Economic Consequences of the Peace\" famously lays out his case for why the allies' Terms of Peace to be imposed on Germany were physically and financially impossible to fulfill and how they would encourage Germany to rise up again. Predicting a coming World War II, Keynes wrote: \"... if this view of nations and of their relation to one another (i.e., a Carthaginian Peace) is adopted by the democracies of Western Europe, and is financed by the United States, heaven help us all. If we aim deliberately at the impoverishment of Central Europe, vengeance, I dare predict, will not limp. Nothing can then delay for very long that final civil war between the forces of Reaction and the despairing convulsions of Revolution, before which the horrors of the late German war will fade into nothing, and which will destroy, whoever is victor, the civilisation and the progress of our generation.\" Although Keynes' effort to change the treaty terms failed, it is a dramatic demonstration of what peace economics is about: the creation of a mutually reinforcing structure of political, economic, and cultural systems to achieve peace such that reversal to violence is unlikely.\n\nIn the 1930s, in the midst of the Great Depression and with the rise of fascist powers, many western socialist and liberal thinkers believed that capitalism caused war. However, Keynes in his \"General Theory of Enployment, Interest and Money\" in 1936, argued that this need not be so, and that the management of capitalism along the lines he proposed to promote high employment would be more conducive to peace than laissez-faire capitalism with the gold standard had been. This analysis underlay his approach during World War II to the creation of institutions for international economic governance in the post-war world.\n\nLate in World War II, as Nazi-Germany's eventual defeat appeared clear, Henry Morgenthau, Jr., then-Secretary of the United States Treasury, advocated the partitioning of Germany, stripping it of its most valuable raw materials and industrial assets, and envisioned the complete pastoralization of Germany. Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill agreed to the Morgenthau Plan, in modified form, on 16 September 1944. Following victory, Germany's remaining factories were dismantled, parts, machinery, and equipment shipped abroad, patents expropriated, research forbidden, and useful engineers and scientists transferred out of the country. Despite the negotiation of international treaties at Bretton Woods to create a set of complementary global monetary, trade, and reconstruction and development institutions, namely the International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (today part of the World Bank Group), and, separately, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (incorporated in today's World Trade Organization), Germany's and Europe's other postwar economies collapsed. Keynes' Economic Consequences of the Peace appeared to repeat themselves. However, Roosevelt had died and Harry S. Truman assumed the U.S. American Presidency on 12 April 1945. Even as the deindustrialization of Germany proceeded as planned, Truman's first Secretary of State, James F. Byrnes, by 1947 took a dismal view of its effects on Germany's impoverished population. So did former president Herbert C. Hoover in a series of reports penned in 1947. Meanwhile, Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union emerged as a formidable power and the implication seemed clear: An economically strengthened, resurgent Germany could either be part of a new Western political, economic, and cultural alliance or else be incorporated into a Soviet one. Truman thus came to abolish the punitive measures imposed on Germany, and his new Secretary of State, General George C. Marshall, formulated what would become the Marshall Plan, in effect from 1948 to 1952. The new global institutions and the unilateral Marshall Plan action combined to endow new institutions with sufficient resources to result in a somewhat unwitting peace economics: clearly designed toward the purpose of international peace and prosperity, yet skewed toward Western Europe and the incipient Cold War. Moreover, the new social architecture was invested with incentives, such as the United Nations Security Council that provided five of its members with permanent seats and veto powers, that, while keeping superpower peace, threatened peace and prosperity in the post-colonial Third World.\n\nLike Keynes, Jean Monnet participated in the Paris Peace Conference in 1919, in Monnet's case as an assistant to the French delegation. Like Keynes, he envisioned a pan-European economic cooperation zone. Like Keynes, he would be disappointed. Despite this, the French appreciated his good efforts and awarded him with the post of Deputy Secretary-General of the then newly founded League of Nations. Monnet was but 31 years old. He resigned four years later to devote himself to international business and finance in private capacity but resurfaced during the early World War II years in positions of high influence in France, Britain, and the United States, urging Roosevelt to get on with an industrial armaments plan. Following World War II, Monnet, however, at first crafted the Monnet Plan which, similar to Morgenthau's, envisioned the transfer of the German Ruhr and Saarland territories, raw materials, and industries (coal and steel) to France to assist it in its own reconstruction. This was approved by French Prime Minister Charles de Gaulle shortly before his resignation in January 1946. The transfer of the Saar region took place with U.S. help in 1947, while the Ruhr region was placed under an international authority in 1949 that assured France access to German coal at low prices. This led to rising frictions between Germany and the allies, just as Keynes had foretold 30 years earlier.\n\nMonnet changed course and, together with Paul Reuter, Bernard Clappier, Pierre Uri, and Étienne Hirsch, plans were crafted that resulted in the Schuman Declaration of 9 May 1950, celebrated today as Europe Day or Schuman Day. Robert Schuman, the Franco-German-Luxembourgian statesman, French Minister of Finance, Minister of Foreign Affairs and two-time Prime Minister of France, envisioned, first, a Franco-German and, then, a pan-European sharing of crucial coal and steel resources among Italy, France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg that would make future war \"not only unthinkable but materially impossible.\" By 1951, this resulted in the formation of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), the forerunner to today's European Union. In contrast to the negotiations surrounding the founding of the United Nations and a set of associated organizations in 1945, the European idea appears to have been deliberately designed as a kernel with organic growth-potential, the precise development of which would be learned in future. Thus, no institutional structures were put in place that, due to accrued vested interests, would later prove to be too difficult to change.\n\nWar at the interstate level has subsided and, to a degree, so have the massive civil wars that took place in the immediate Post-Cold War period (especially in Africa in the 1990s and 2000s). But violent conflict takes place at many levels, from self-directed harm (e.g., self-injury and suicide) and domestic violence between intimate partners and family members to workplace violence and organized criminal violence, all of which are massively costly and ultimately require positive, structural solutions whereby resort to violence becomes \"unthinkable,\" even as it may remain \"materially possible.\"\n\nThe Institute for Economics and Peace, a think tank with offices in Sydney, New York, and Mexico City, is \"developing metrics to analyse peace and to quantify its economic value. It does this by developing global and national indices, calculating the economic cost of violence, analysing country level risk and understanding positive peace.\" \n\nAcademic journals that publish work by peace economists include the \"Journal of Conflict Resolution\" (since 1956), the \"Journal of Peace Research\" (since 1964), \"Conflict Management and Peace Science\" (since 1973), \"Defence and Peace Economics\" (since 1990), \"Peace Economics, Peace Science, and Public Policy\" (since 1993), the \"Economics of Peace and Security Journal\" (since 2006), the \"International Journal of Development and Conflict\" (since 2011), and \"Business, Peace and Sustainable Development\" (since 2013).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15106272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15106272", "title": "Policy mix", "text": "Policy mix\n\nThe policy mix is the combination of a country's monetary policy and fiscal policy. These two channels influence growth and employment, and are generally determined by the central bank and the government (e.g., the United States Congress) respectively.\n\nIdeally, the policy mix should aim at maximizing growth and minimizing unemployment. However, the central banks and governments are sometimes theorized to have different time horizons, with the elected governments having a shorter time range. Both can have other objectives and must apply to some constraints, diverting them from these primary objectives: obeying a deficit rule, securing the financial sector, courting popularity, etc.\n\nMonetary policy is typically carried out by the central bank which controls interest rates and the money supply to balance control of inflation and unemployment. The government determines labour market conditions, public investment and public spending, automatic stabilizers and discretionary fiscal policy.\n\nCentral bank independence is generally held to be positive, because it prevents a single authority from simultaneously issuing debt and paying it off with newly created money, which would be inflationary.\n"}
{"id": "1014366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014366", "title": "Potassium iodide", "text": "Potassium iodide\n\nPotassium iodide is a chemical compound, medication, and dietary supplement. As a medication it is used to treat hyperthyroidism, in radiation emergencies, and to protect the thyroid gland when certain types of radiopharmaceuticals are used. In the developing world it is also used to treat skin sporotrichosis and phycomycosis. As a supplement it is used in those who have low intake of iodine in the diet. It is given by mouth.\nCommon side effects include vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, rash, and swelling of the salivary glands. Other side effects include allergic reactions, headache, goitre, and depression. While use during pregnancy may harm the baby, its use is still recommended in radiation emergencies. Potassium iodide has the chemical formula KI. Commercially it is made by mixing potassium hydroxide with iodine.\nPotassium iodide has been used medically since at least 1820. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. Potassium iodide is available as a generic medication and over the counter. In the United States a course of treatment is less than 25 USD. Potassium iodide is also used for the iodization of salt.\n\nThe uses of KI include as a nutritional supplement in animal feeds and also the human diet. For the latter, it is the most common additive used to \"iodize\" table salt (a public health measure to prevent iodine deficiency in populations that get little seafood). The oxidation of iodide causes slow loss of iodine content from iodised salts that are exposed to excess air. The alkali metal iodide salt, over time and exposure to excess oxygen and carbon dioxide, slowly oxidizes to metal carbonate and elemental iodine, which then evaporates. Potassium iod\"ate\" (KIO) is used to add iodine to some salts so that the iodine is not lost by oxidation. Dextrose or sodium thiosulfate are often added to iodized table salt to stabilize potassium iodide thus reducing loss of the volatile chemical.\n\nThyroid iodine uptake blockade with potassium iodide is used in nuclear medicine scintigraphy and therapy with some radioiodinated compounds that are not targeted to the thyroid, such as iobenguane (MIBG), which is used to image or treat neural tissue tumors, or iodinated fibrinogen, which is used in fibrinogen scans to investigate clotting. These compounds contain iodine, but not in the iodide form. However, since they may be ultimately metabolized or break down to radioactive iodide, it is common to administer non-radioactive potassium iodide to ensure that iodide from these radiopharmaceuticals is not sequestered by the normal affinity of the thyroid for iodide.\n\nU.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved dosing of potassium iodide for this purpose with iobenguane, is as follows (per 24 hours): infants less than 1 month old, 16 mg; children 1 month to 3 years, 32 mg; children 3 years to 18 years, 65 mg; adults 130 mg. However, some sources recommend alternative dosing regimens.\n\nNot all sources are in agreement on the necessary \"duration\" of thyroid blockade, although agreement appears to have been reached about the \"necessity\" of blockade for both scintigraphic and therapeutic applications of iobenguane. Commercially available iobenguane is labeled with iodine-123, and product labeling recommends administration of potassium iodide 1 hour prior to administration of the radiopharmaceutical for all age groups, while the European Association of Nuclear Medicine recommends (for iobenguane labeled with either isotope), that potassium iodide administration begin one day prior to radiopharmaceutical administration, and continue until the day following the injection, with the exception of new-borns, who do not require potassium iodide doses following radiopharmaceutical injection.\n\nProduct labeling for diagnostic iodine-131 iobenguane recommends potassium iodide administration one day before injection and continuing 5 to 7 days following administration, in keeping with the much longer half-life of this isotope and its greater danger to the thyroid. Iodine-131 iobenguane used for therapeutic purposes requires a different pre-medication duration, beginning 24–48 hours prior to iobenguane injection and continuing 10–15 days following injection.\n\nIn 1982, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved potassium iodide to protect thyroid glands from radioactive iodine involving accidents or fission emergencies. In an accidental event or attack on a nuclear power plant, or in nuclear bomb fallout, volatile fission product radionuclides may be released. Of these products, is one of the most common and is particularly dangerous to the thyroid gland because it may lead to thyroid cancer. By saturating the body with a source of stable iodide prior to exposure, inhaled or ingested tends to be excreted, which prevents radioiodine uptake by the thyroid. According to one 2000 study \"KI administered up to 48 h before exposure can almost completely block thyroid uptake and therefore greatly reduce the thyroid absorbed dose. However, KI administration 96 h or more before exposure has no significant protective effect. In contrast, KI administration after exposure to radioiodine induces a smaller and rapidly decreasing blockade effect.\" For optimal prevention, KI must be dosed daily until a risk of significant exposure to radioiodine by either inhalation or ingestion no longer exists.\n\nEmergency 130 milligrams potassium iodide doses provide 100 mg iodide (the other 30 mg is the potassium in the compound), which is roughly 700 times larger than the normal nutritional need (see recommended dietary allowance) for iodine, which is 150 micrograms (0.15 mg) of iodine (as iodide) per day for an adult. The typical tablet actually weighs 160 mg. 130 mg of which is potassium iodide, and 30 mg being excipients, such as binding agents.\n\nPotassium iodide cannot protect against any other mechanisms of radiation poisoning, nor can it provide any degree of protection against dirty bombs that produce radionuclides other than those of iodine.\n\nThe potassium iodide in iodized salt is insufficient for this use. A likely lethal dose of salt (more than a kilogram) would be needed to equal the potassium iodide in one tablet.\n\nThe World Health Organization does not recommend KI prophylaxis for adults over 40 years, unless the radiation dose from inhaled radioiodine is expected to threaten thyroid function, because the KI side effects increase with age and may exceed the KI protective effects; \"...unless doses to the thyroid from inhalation rise to levels threatening thyroid function, that is of the order of about 5 Gy. Such radiation doses will not occur far away from an accident site.\"\n\nThe U.S. Department of Health and Human Services restated these two years later as \"The downward KI (potassium iodide) dose adjustment by age group, based on body size considerations, adheres to the principle of minimum effective dose. The recommended standard (daily) dose of KI for all school-age children is the same (65 mg). However, adolescents approaching adult size (i.e., >70 kg [154 lbs]) should receive the full adult dose (130 mg) for maximal block of thyroid radioiodine uptake. Neonates ideally should receive the lowest dose (16 mg) of KI.\"\n\nSSKI (i.e., the \"saturated solution of KI\" rather than tablets) may be used in radioiodine-contamination emergencies (i.e., nuclear accidents) to \"block\" the thyroid's uptake of radioiodine, at a dose of two drops of SSKI per day for an adult. This is not the same as blocking the thyroid's release of thyroid hormone, for which the adult dose is different (and is actually higher by a factor of 7 or 8), and for which KI anti-radiation pills (not a common medical treatment form of KI) are not usually available in pharmacies, or normally used in hospitals, or by physicians. Although the two forms of potassium iodide are completely interchangeable, normally in practice the SSKI solution, which is the historical medical form of high dose iodine, is generally used for all medical purposes save for radioiodine prophylaxis. For protection of the thyroid against radioiodine (iodine-131) contamination, the convenient standard 130 mg KI pill is used, if available. As noted, the equivalent two drops of SSKI (equaling the dose of one KI pill) may be used for this purpose, if the pills are not available.\n\nThere is reason for caution with prescribing the ingestion of high doses of potassium iodide and iodate, as their unnecessary use can cause conditions such as the Jod-Basedow phenomena, trigger and/or worsen hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, and then cause temporary or even permanent thyroid conditions. It can also cause sialadenitis (an inflammation of the salivary gland), gastrointestinal disturbances, and rashes. Potassium iodide is also not recommended for people with dermatitis herpetiformis and hypocomplementemic vasculitis – conditions that are linked to a risk of iodine sensitivity.\n\nThere have been some reports of potassium iodide treatment causing swelling of the parotid gland (one of the three glands that secrete saliva), due to its stimulatory effects on saliva production.\n\nA saturated solution of KI (SSKI) is typically given orally in adult doses several times a day (5 drops of SSKI assumed to be  mL) for thyroid blockade (to prevent the thyroid from excreting thyroid hormone) and occasionally this dose is also used, when iodide is used as an expectorant (the total dose is about one gram KI per day for an adult). The anti-radioiodine doses used for uptake blockade are lower, and range downward from 100  mg a day for an adult, to less than this for children (see table). All of these doses should be compared with the far lower dose of iodine needed in normal nutrition, which is only 150 μg per day (150 micrograms, not milligrams).\n\nAt maximal doses, and sometimes at much lower doses, side effects of iodide used for medical reasons, in doses of 1000 times the normal nutritional need, may include: acne, loss of appetite, or upset stomach (especially during the first several days, as the body adjusts to the medication). More severe side effects that require notification of a physician are: fever, weakness, unusual tiredness, swelling in the neck or throat, mouth sores, skin rash, nausea, vomiting, stomach pains, irregular heartbeat, numbness or tingling of the hands or feet, or a metallic taste in the mouth.\n\nThe use of a particular 'Iodine tablet' used in portable water purification has also been determined as somewhat effective at reducing radioiodine uptake. In a small study on human subjects, who for each of their 90-day trial, ingested four 20 milligram tetraglycine hydroperiodide(TGHP) water tablets, with each tablet releasing 8 milligrams (ppm) of free titratable iodine; it was found that the biological uptake of radioactive iodine in these human subjects dropped to, and remained at, a value of less than 2% the radioiodine uptake rate of that observed in control subjects who went fully exposed to radioiodine without treatment.\n\nIn the event of a radioiodine release the ingestion of prophylaxis potassium iodide, if available, or even iodate, would rightly take precedence over perchlorate administration, and would be the first line of defence in protecting the population from a radioiodine release. However, in the event of a radioiodine release too massive and widespread to be controlled by the limited stock of iodide and iodate prophylaxis drugs, then the addition of perchlorate ions to the water supply, or distribution of perchlorate tablets would serve as a cheap, efficacious, second line of defense against carcinogenic radioiodine bioaccumulation.\n\nThe ingestion of goitrogen drugs is, much like potassium iodide also not without its dangers, such as hypothyroidism. In all these cases however, despite the risks, the prophylaxis benefits of intervention with iodide, iodate or perchlorate outweigh the serious cancer risk from radioiodine bioaccumulation in regions where radioiodine has sufficiently contaminated the environment.\n\nPotassium iodide in its raw form is a mild irritant and should be handled with gloves. Chronic overexposure can have adverse effects on the thyroid. Potassium iodide is a possible teratogen.\n\nKI is used with silver nitrate to make silver iodide (AgI), an important chemical in film photography. KI is a component in some disinfectants and hair treatment chemicals. KI is also used as a fluorescence quenching agent in biomedical research, an application that takes advantage of collisional quenching of fluorescent substances by the iodide ion. However, for several fluorophores addition of KI in µM-mM concentrations results in increase of fluorescence intensity, and iodide acts as fluorescence enhancer.\n\nPotassium iodide is a component in the electrolyte of dye sensitised solar cells (DSSC) along with iodine.\n\nPotassium iodide finds its most important applications in organic synthesis mainly in the preparation of aryl iodides in the Sandmeyer reaction, starting from aryl amines. Aryl iodides are in turn used to attach aryl groups to other organics by nucleophilic substitution, with iodide ion as the leaving group.\n\nPotassium iodide is an ionic compound which is made of the following ions: KI. It crystallises in the sodium chloride structure. It is produced industrially by treating KOH with iodine.\n\nIt is a white salt, which is the most commercially significant iodide compound, with approximately 37,000 tons produced in 1985. It absorbs water less readily than sodium iodide, making it easier to work with.\n\nAged and impure samples are yellow because of the slow oxidation of the salt to potassium carbonate and elemental iodine.\n\nSince the iodide ion is a mild reducing agent, is easily oxidised to by powerful oxidising agents such as chlorine:\nThis reaction is employed in the isolation of iodine from natural sources. Air will oxidize iodide, as evidenced by the observation of a purple extract when aged samples of KI are rinsed with dichloromethane. As formed under acidic conditions, hydriodic acid (HI) is a stronger reducing agent.\n\nLike other iodide salts, forms when combined with elemental iodine.\nUnlike , salts can be highly water-soluble. Through this reaction, iodine is used in redox titrations. Aqueous , \"Lugol's solution\", is used as a disinfectant and as an etchant for gold surfaces.\n\nPotassium iodide and silver nitrate are used to make silver(I) iodide, which is used for high speed photographic film and for cloud-seeding:\n\nKI serves as a source of iodide in organic synthesis. A useful application is in the preparation of aryl iodides from arenediazonium salts. For example:\n\nKI, acting as a source of iodide, may also act as a nucleophilic catalyst for the alkylation of alkyl chlorides, bromides, or mesylates.\n\nPotassium iodide has been used medically since at least 1820. Some of the earliest uses included for syphilis.\n\nPotassium iodide's (KI) value as a radiation protective (thyroid blocking) agent was demonstrated following the Chernobyl nuclear reactor disaster in April, 1986, a saturated solution of potassium iodide (SSKI) was administered to 10.5 million children and 7 million adults in Poland as a preventative measure against accumulation of radioactive in the thyroid gland.\n\nReports differ concerning whether people in the areas immediately surrounding Chernobyl itself were given the supplement., however the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) reported, \"thousands of measurements of I-131 (radioactive iodine) activity...suggest that the observed levels were lower than would have been expected had this prophylactic measure not been taken. The use of KI...was credited with permissible iodine content in 97% of the evacuees tested.\"\n\nWith the passage of time, people living in irradiated areas where KI was not available have developed thyroid cancer at epidemic levels, which is why the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reported \"The data clearly demonstrate the risks of thyroid radiation... KI can be used [to] provide safe and effective protection against thyroid cancer caused by irradiation.\"\n\nChernobyl also demonstrated that the need to protect the thyroid from radiation was greater than expected. Within ten years of the accident, it became clear that thyroid damage caused by released radioactive iodine was virtually the only adverse health effect that could be measured. As reported by the NRC, studies after the accident showed that \"As of 1996, except for thyroid cancer, there has been no confirmed increase in the rates of other cancers, including leukemia, among the... public, that have been attributed to releases from the accident.\"\n\nBut equally important to the question of KI is the fact that radioactivity releases are not \"local\" events. Researchers at the World Health Organization accurately located and counted the cancer victims from Chernobyl and were startled to find that \"the increase in incidence [of thyroid cancer] has been documented up to 500 km from the accident site... significant doses from radioactive iodine can occur hundreds of kilometers from the site, beyond emergency planning zones.\" Consequently, far more people than anticipated were affected by the radiation, which caused the United Nations to report in 2002 that \"The number of people with thyroid cancer... has exceeded expectations. Over 11,000 cases have already been reported.\"\n\nThese findings were consistent with studies of the effects of previous radioactivity releases. In 1945, millions of Japanese were exposed to radiation from nuclear weapons, and the effects can still be measured. Today, nearly half (44.8%) the survivors of Nagasaki studied have identifiable thyroid disease, with the American Medical Association (AMA) reporting \"it is remarkable that a biological effect from a single brief environmental exposure nearly 60 years in the past is still present and can be detected.\"\n\nThe development of thyroid cancer among residents in the North Pacific from radioactive fallout following the United States' nuclear weapons testing in the 1950s (on islands nearly 200 miles downwind of the tests) were instrumental in the 1978 decision by the FDA to issue a request for the availability of KI for thyroid protection in the event of a release from a commercial nuclear power plant or weapons-related nuclear incident. Noting that KI's effectiveness was \"virtually complete\" and finding that iodine in the form of KI was substantially superior to other forms including iodate (KIO) in terms of safety, effectiveness, lack of side effects, and speed of onset, the FDA invited manufacturers to submit applications to produce and market KI.\n\nIt was reported on March 16, 2011, that potassium iodide tablets were given preventatively to U.S. Naval air crew members flying within 70 nautical miles of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant damaged in the earthquake (8.9/9.0 magnitude) and ensuing tsunami on March 11, 2011. The measures were seen as precautions, and the Pentagon said no U.S. forces have shown signs of radiation poisoning. By March 20, the US Navy instructed personnel coming within 100 miles of the reactor to take the pills.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the central storage of iodine-pills is located in Zoetermeer, near The Hague.\n\nIn October 2017, iodine pills were distributed in the Netherlands by the Dutch Government to certain groups of people living in an area within 100 km from a nuclear power plant. Persons up to 40 years of age, within a distance of 20 km, and children up to 18 years in an area of 20–100 km of the nuclear powerplant. \nHundreds of families in Peel en Maas, Maasgouw, Beesel and Leudal did not get any pills at all. After a request Safety region Limburg-Noord the ministry sent 150 boxes extra. Only 50 of these boxes were available in the southern region of Limburg. Tablets were only provided to parents who had reported their municipality. Due to unfamiliarity with this subject matter, many parents were not notified. Otherwise the stock would be used too quickly.\n\nThree companies (Anbex, Inc., Fleming Co, and Recipharm of Sweden) have met the strict FDA requirements for manufacturing and testing of KI, and they offer products (IOSAT, ThyroShield, and ThyroSafe, respectively) which are available for purchase. In 2012, Fleming Co. sold all its product rights and manufacturing facility to other companies and no longer exists. ThyroShield is currently not in production. The Swedish manufacturing facility for Thyrosafe, a half-strength potassium iodide tablet for thyroid protection from radiation, was mentioned on the secret US 2008 Critical Foreign Dependencies Initiative leaked by Wikileaks in 2010.\n\nTablets of potassium iodide are supplied for emergency purposes related to blockade of radioiodine uptake, a common form of radiation poisoning due to environmental contamination by the short-lived fission product . Potassium iodide may also be administered pharmaceutically for thyroid storm.\n\nFor reasons noted above, therapeutic drops of SSKI, or 130 mg tablets of KI as used for nuclear fission accidents, are not used as nutritional supplements, since an SSKI drop or nuclear-emergency tablet provides 300 to 700 times more iodine than the daily adult nutritional requirement. Dedicated nutritional iodide tablets containing 0.15 mg (150 micrograms (µg)) of iodide, from KI or from various other sources (such as kelp extract) are marketed as supplements, but they are not to be confused with the much higher pharmaceutical dose preparations.\n\nPotassium iodide can be conveniently prepared as a saturated solution, abbreviated SSKI. This method of delivering potassium iodide does not require a method to weigh out the potassium iodide so it can be used in an emergency situation. KI crystals are simply added to water until no more KI will dissolve and instead sits at the bottom of the container. With pure water, the concentration of KI in the solution depends only on the temperature. Potassium iodide is highly soluble in water so SSKI is a concentrated source of KI. At 20 degrees Celsius the solubility of KI is 140-148 grams per 100 grams of water. Because the volumes of KI and water are approximately additive, the resulting SSKI solution will contain about 1.00 gram (1000 mg) KI per milliliter (mL) of solution. This is 100% weight/volume (note units of mass concentration) of KI (one gram KI per mL solution), which is possible because SSKI is significantly more dense than pure water—about 1.67 g/mL. Because KI is about 76.4% iodide by weight, SSKI contains about 764 mg iodide per mL. This concentration of iodide allows the calculation of the iodide dose per drop, if one knows the number of drops per milliliter. For SSKI, a solution more viscous than water, there are assumed to be 15 drops per mL; the iodide dose is therefore approximately 51 mg per drop. It is conventionally rounded to 50 mg per drop.\n\nThe term SSKI is also used, especially by pharmacists, to refer to a U.S.P. pre-prepared solution formula, made by adding KI to water to prepare a solution containing 1000 mg KI per mL solution (100% wt/volume KI solution), to closely approximate the concentration of SSKI made by saturation. This is essentially interchangeable with SSKI made by saturation, and also contains about 50 mg iodide per drop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31452433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31452433", "title": "Price-Pottenger Nutrition Foundation", "text": "Price-Pottenger Nutrition Foundation\n\nThe Price-Pottenger Nutrition Foundation (PPNF) is a U.S. 501(c)(3) non-profit organization established \"to teach the public and professionals about foods, lifestyle habits, healing modalities, and environmental practices that can help people attain vibrant health.\" Founded in 1952, it was first known as the Santa Barbara Medical Research Foundation and later renamed the Weston A. Price Memorial Foundation, in 1965, after the 20th century researcher Weston Price who emphasized the importance of nutrition for health and dentistry. The other half of the foundation's current namesake is Francis M. Pottenger, Jr. whose study of nutrition in cats sparked interest in a diet high in raw animal products including uncooked meats and unpasteurized dairy. In 1969, after Price's death, the organization became the \"Price Pottenger Foundation\", and then the \"Price Pottenger Nutrition Foundation\", which it bears today.\n\nPPNF primarily advocates: 1) that consumption of animal fats is not dangerous to human health, and 2) that mainstream agricultural methods which emphasize the use of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides as well as factory farming and significant processing of whole foods, reduces overall nutritional quality of food and human health. The first set of claims go against the mainstream scientific consensus among researchers, doctors, and nutritionists, that a diet high in saturated fat presents serious risks to cardiovascular health and longevity. The second set of claims is aligned with the increasingly popular organic food movement, although major food growers and producers consistently affirm the taste and nutritional quality of their food as identical or better than organics.\n\nPPNF now houses over 10,000 books and publications, including the works of Dr. Royal Lee, Dr. Melvin Page, Dr. Emanuel Cheraskin, Dr. William Albrecht, and others. The foundation today owns and protects the original copyrighted material of Weston A. Price, DDS, and Francis M. Pottenger, Jr., MD. They continue to republish Price's \"Nutrition and Physical Degeneration\", and Pottenger's \"Pottenger's Cats – A Study in Nutrition\".\n\nPrice was a dentist from Cleveland, Ohio, whose 1939 book, \"Nutritional and Physical Degeneration\", describes the fieldwork he did in the 1920s and 1930s among various world cultures, with the original goal of recording and studying the dental health and development of pre-industrial populations including tribal Africans and Pacific islanders, Inuit, North and South American natives, and Australian aborigines. The book contains numerous photographs of the people he studied, and includes comparison photographs of the teeth and facial structure of people who lived on their traditional diet and people who had adopted or grown up on industrialized food. In certain instances it was possible for Price to examine and photograph traditional and industrialized eaters from the same family.\n\nPottenger was a doctor whose 1932-1942 \"Pottenger Cat Study\" addressed the nutritive value of heat-labile elements — nutrients destroyed by heat and available only in raw foods. Pottenger used donated laboratory cats to test the potency of the adrenal extract hormones he was making. The adrenal glands of these cats were removed for the experiments and Pottenger noted that most of the cats died during or following the operation. He was feeding the cats a supposedly nutritive diet consisting of raw milk, cod liver oil and cooked meat scraps of liver, tripe, sweetbread, brains, heart and muscle. When the number of donated cats exceeded the supply of food available, Pottenger began ordering raw meat scraps from a local meat packing plant, including organs, meat, and bone; and fed a separate group of cats from this supply. Within months this separate group appeared in better health than the cooked meat group. Pottenger conducted subsequent studies involving approximately 900 cats over a period of ten years, with three generations of cats studied. His experiments showed that cats were healthiest after being fed raw meat and raw dairy.\n\nMarion Patricia (\"Pat\") Connolly was the curator for PPNF, overseeing the archiving and promotion of the organization's materials. Pat studied health and nutrition for over 66 years and lectured on a variety of nutritional subjects. According to the PPNF, she was the foremost authority on the work of Price and Pottenger. In 1962 Pat took a course on nutrition by Alfreda Rooke, then Curator of PPNF, who had studied under Price. In 1972, she became a PPNF Nutrition Instructor and began teaching Rooke's course. Pat Connolly taught classes educating people on Price's research and its applications. She authored several books, including \"Dietotherapy (The Kelley Research Foundation)\", \"Mini Guide To Living Foods\", \"The Guide to Living Foods (PPNF)\", \"Food Alive (Livingston-Wheeler Medical Clinic)\", \"A Modern Approach to the Primitive Diet (Nero)\", and \"The Candida-Albicans Yeast-Free Cookbook (McGraw Hill)\". She was also listed as a co-author of the first edition of Nourishing Traditions. She died in November 2010. \nHer husband Joseph Connolly practiced dentistry in San Diego for 40 years and helped found PPNF. He died in 1996.\n\nIn 1994 George E. Meinig published \"Root Canal Cover-up Exposed\" which resurrected Price's old studies. Regarding the book, Hasselgren in New York Academy of Dentistry's \"Annals of dentistry\" stated \"[t]he focal infection theory, supported by many including Dr. Price, has been attacked, debated, accepted, criticized, agreed upon, etc. but it has not been covered up.\" Hasselgren noted that Meinig would sometime confuse the meanings of \"infection\" and \"inflammation\" and based all his work on Price's 1923 \"Dental Infections, Oral and Systemic\" book. Hasselgren observed: \"Many clinicians appear today to have lost sight of the fact that endodontical treatment shall be based on biology and not on the use of various gadgets to sweep canals. Also, one-visit treatment of necrotic, infected teeth is being advocated and practiced even if no long-term study has been performed to investigate this kind of treatment. The work of Dr. Weston Price is therefore still to a great extent valid and important and the role of infection can not be underestimated.\" Meinig died in May 2008 at the age of 93.\n\nThe PPNF houses an archive of books related to Price and Pottenger's work as well as the works of authors in related fields. The foundation publishes its own journal, the \"Journal of Health and Healing\". They also sell a variety of books, DVD, and CDs, publish an online newsletter, and offer classes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20985187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20985187", "title": "Project Jefferson", "text": "Project Jefferson\n\nProject Jefferson was a covert U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency program designed to determine if the current anthrax vaccine was effective against genetically modified bacteria. The program's legal status under the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention (BWC) is disputed.\n\nProject Jefferson began in 1997 and was designed to reproduce a strain of genetically modified anthrax isolated by Russian scientists during the 1990s. The goal was to determine whether or not the strain was resistant to the commercially available U.S. anthrax vaccine.\n\nThe project was disclosed in a September 4, 2001 article in \"The New York Times\". Reporters Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg and William J. Broad collaborated to write the article. It is presumed that the reporters had knowledge of the program for at least several months; shortly after the article appeared they published a book that detailed the story further. The 2001 book, \"\", and the article are the only publicly available sources detailing Project Jefferson and its sister projects, Bacchus and Clear Vision.\n\nProject Jefferson was operated by the Defense Intelligence Agency and reviewed by lawyers at the Pentagon. Those lawyers determined that Project Jefferson was in line with the BWC. Despite assertions from the Clinton and Bush administrations that the project, and its sisters, were legal, several international legal scholars disagreed.\n\nNotable was the fact that the clandestine program was omitted from BWC confidence-building measure (CBM) declarations. These measures were introduced to the BWC in 1986 and 1991 to strengthen the treaty, the U.S. had long been a proponent of their value and some asserted that these tests damaged American credibility. U.S. desire to keep such programs secret was, according to Bush administration officials, a \"significant reason\" that Bush rejected a draft agreement signed by 143 nations to strengthen the BWC.\n\n"}
{"id": "18935488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935488", "title": "Reverse engineering", "text": "Reverse engineering\n\nReverse engineering, also called back engineering, is the process by which a man-made object is deconstructed to reveal its designs, architecture, or to extract knowledge from the object; similar to scientific research, the only difference being that scientific research is about a natural phenomenon.\n\nReverse engineering is applicable in the fields of mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, software engineering, chemical engineering, and systems biology.\n\nThere are many reasons for performing reverse engineering in various fields. Reverse engineering has its origins in the analysis of hardware for commercial or military advantage. However, the reverse engineering process in itself is not concerned with creating a copy or changing the artifact in some way; it is only an analysis in order to deduce design features from products with little or no additional knowledge about the procedures involved in their original production. In some cases, the goal of the reverse engineering process can simply be a redocumentation of legacy systems. Even when the product reverse engineered is that of a competitor, the goal may not be to copy them, but to perform competitor analysis. Reverse engineering may also be used to create interoperable products and despite some narrowly tailored United States and European Union legislation, the legality of using specific reverse engineering techniques for this purpose has been hotly contested in courts worldwide for more than two decades.\n\nSoftware reverse engineering can help to improve the understanding of the underlying source code for the maintenance and improvement of the software, relevant information can be extracted in order to make a decision for software development and graphical representations of the code can provide alternate views regarding the source code, which can help to detect and fix a software bug or vulnerability. Frequently, as some software develops, its design information and improvements are often lost over time, but this lost information can usually be recovered with reverse engineering. This process can also help to cut down the time required to understand the source code, reducing the overall cost of the software development. Reverse engineering can also help to detect and eliminate a malicious code written to the software with better code detectors. Reversing a source code can be used to find alternate uses of the source code, such as to detect unauthorized replication of the source code where it wasn't intended to be used, or to reveal how a competitors product was built. This process is commonly used for \"cracking\" software and media to remove their copy protection, or to create a (possibly improved) copy or even a knockoff, which is usually the goal of a competitor or a hacker. Malware developers often use reverse engineering techniques to find vulnerabilities in an operating system (OS), in order build a computer virus that can exploit the system vulnerabilities. Reverse engineering is also being used in cryptanalysis in order to find vulnerabilities in substitution cipher, symmetric-key algorithm or public-key cryptography.\n\n\nAs computer-aided design (CAD) has become more popular, reverse engineering has become a viable method to create a 3D virtual model of an existing physical part for use in 3D CAD, CAM, CAE or other software. The reverse-engineering process involves measuring an object and then reconstructing it as a 3D model. The physical object can be measured using 3D scanning technologies like CMMs, laser scanners, structured light digitizers, or Industrial CT Scanning (computed tomography). The measured data alone, usually represented as a point cloud, lacks topological information and is therefore often processed and modeled into a more usable format such as a triangular-faced mesh, a set of NURBS surfaces, or a CAD model.\n\nHybrid Modelling is commonly used term when NURBS and Parametric modelling are implemented together. Using a combination of geometric and freeform surfaces can provide a powerful method of 3D modelling. Areas of freeform data can be combined with exact geometric surfaces to create a hybrid model. A typical example of this would be the reverse engineering of a cylinder head, which includes freeform cast features, such as water jackets and high tolerance machined areas.\n\nReverse engineering is also used by businesses to bring existing physical geometry into digital product development environments, to make a digital 3D record of their own products, or to assess competitors' products. It is used to analyse, for instance, how a product works, what it does, and what components it consists of, estimate costs, and identify potential patent infringement, etc.\n\nValue engineering is a related activity also used by businesses. It involves de-constructing and analysing products, but the objective is to find opportunities for cost cutting.\n\nIn 1990, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) defined \"reverse engineering\" as \"the process of analyzing a\nsubject system to identify the system's components and their interrelationships and to create representations of the system in another form or at a higher\nlevel of abstraction\", where the \"subject system\" is the end product of software development. Reverse engineering is a process of examination only: the software system under consideration is not modified (which would make it re-engineering or restructuring). Reverse engineering can be performed from any stage of the product cycle, not necessarily from the functional end product.\n\nThere are two components in reverse engineering: redocumentation and design recovery. Redocumentation is the creation of new representation of the computer code so that it is easier to understand. Meanwhile, design recovery is the using of deduction or reasoning from general knowledge or personal experience of the product in order to fully understand the product functionality. It can also be seen as \"going backwards through the development cycle\". In this model, the output of the implementation phase (in source code form) is reverse-engineered back to the analysis phase, in an inversion of the traditional waterfall model. Another term for this technique is program comprehension. Working Conference on Reverse Engineering (WCRE) has been held yearly to explore and expand the techniques of reverse engineering. Computer-aided software engineering (CASE) and automated code generation have contributed greatly in the field of reverse engineering.\n\nSoftware anti-tamper technology like obfuscation is used to deter both reverse engineering and re-engineering of proprietary software and software-powered systems. In practice, two main types of reverse engineering emerge. In the first case, source code is already available for the software, but higher-level aspects of the program, perhaps poorly documented or documented but no longer valid, are discovered. In the second case, there is no source code available for the software, and any efforts towards discovering one possible source code for the software are regarded as reverse engineering. This second usage of the term is the one most people are familiar with. Reverse engineering of software can make use of the clean room design technique to avoid copyright infringement.\n\nOn a related note, black box testing in software engineering has a lot in common with reverse engineering. The tester usually has the API, but their goals are to find bugs and undocumented features by bashing the product from outside.\n\nOther purposes of reverse engineering include security auditing, removal of copy protection (\"cracking\"), circumvention of access restrictions often present in consumer electronics, customization of embedded systems (such as engine management systems), in-house repairs or retrofits, enabling of additional features on low-cost \"crippled\" hardware (such as some graphics card chip-sets), or even mere satisfaction of curiosity.\n\nBinary reverse engineering is performed if source code for a software is unavailable. This process is sometimes termed \"Reverse Code Engineering\", or RCE. As an example, decompilation of binaries for the Java platform can be accomplished using Jad. One famous case of reverse engineering was the first non-IBM implementation of the PC BIOS which launched the historic IBM PC compatible industry that has been the overwhelmingly dominant computer hardware platform for many years. Reverse engineering of software is protected in the U.S. by the fair use exception in copyright law. The Samba software, which allows systems that are not running Microsoft Windows systems to share files with systems that are, is a classic example of software reverse engineering, since the Samba project had to reverse-engineer unpublished information about how Windows file sharing worked, so that non-Windows computers could emulate it. The Wine project does the same thing for the Windows API, and OpenOffice.org is one party doing this for the Microsoft Office file formats. The ReactOS project is even more ambitious in its goals, as it strives to provide binary (ABI and API) compatibility with the current Windows OSes of the NT branch, allowing software and drivers written for Windows to run on a clean-room reverse-engineered Free Software (GPL) counterpart. WindowsSCOPE allows for reverse-engineering the full contents of a Windows system's live memory including a binary-level, graphical reverse engineering of all running processes.\n\nAnother classic, if not well-known example is that in 1987 Bell Laboratories reverse-engineered the Mac OS System 4.1, originally running on the Apple Macintosh SE, so they could run it on RISC machines of their own.\n\nReverse engineering of software can be accomplished by various methods.\nThe three main groups of software reverse engineering are\n\nSoftware classification is the process of identifying similarities between different software binaries (for example, two different versions of the same binary) used to detect code relations between software samples. This task was traditionally done manually for several reasons (such as patch analysis for vulnerability detection and copyright infringement) but nowadays can be done somewhat automatically for large numbers of samples.\n\nThis method is being used mostly for long and thorough reverse engineering tasks (complete analysis of a complex algorithm or big piece of software). In general, statistical classification is considered to be a hard problem and this is also true for software classification, therefore there aren't many solutions/tools that handle this task well.\n\nA number of UML tools refer to the process of importing and analysing source code to generate UML diagrams as \"reverse engineering\". See List of UML tools.\n\nAlthough UML is one approach to providing \"reverse engineering\" more recent advances in international standards activities have resulted in the development of the Knowledge Discovery Metamodel (KDM). This standard delivers an ontology for the intermediate (or abstracted) representation of programming language constructs and their interrelationships. An Object Management Group standard (on its way to becoming an ISO standard as well), KDM has started to take hold in industry with the development of tools and analysis environments which can deliver the extraction and analysis of source, binary, and byte code. For source code analysis, KDM's granular standards' architecture enables the extraction of software system flows (data, control, & call maps), architectures, and business layer knowledge (rules, terms, process). The standard enables the use of a common data format (XMI) enabling the correlation of the various layers of system knowledge for either detailed analysis (e.g. root cause, impact) or derived analysis (e.g. business process extraction). Although efforts to represent language constructs can be never-ending given the number of languages, the continuous evolution of software languages and the development of new languages, the standard does allow for the use of extensions to support the broad language set as well as evolution. KDM is compatible with UML, BPMN, RDF and other standards enabling migration into other environments and thus leverage system knowledge for efforts such as software system transformation and enterprise business layer analysis.\n\nProtocols are sets of rules that describe message formats and how messages are exchanged (i.e., the protocol state-machine). Accordingly, the problem of protocol reverse-engineering can be partitioned into two subproblems; message format and state-machine reverse-engineering.\n\nThe message formats have traditionally been reverse-engineered through a tedious manual process, which involved analysis of how protocol implementations process messages, but recent research proposed a number of automatic solutions. Typically, these automatic approaches either group observed messages into clusters using various clustering analyses, or emulate the protocol implementation tracing the message processing.\n\nThere has been less work on reverse-engineering of state-machines of protocols. In general, the protocol state-machines can be learned either through a process of offline learning, which passively observes communication and attempts to build the most general state-machine accepting all observed sequences of messages, and online learning, which allows interactive generation of probing sequences of messages and listening to responses to those probing sequences. In general, offline learning of small state-machines is known to be NP-complete, while online learning can be done in polynomial time. An automatic offline approach has been demonstrated by Comparetti et al. and an online approach by Cho et al.\n\nOther components of typical protocols, like encryption and hash functions, can be reverse-engineered automatically as well. Typically, the automatic approaches trace the execution of protocol implementations and try to detect buffers in memory holding unencrypted packets.\n\nReverse engineering is an invasive and destructive form of analyzing a smart card. The attacker grinds away layer after layer of the smart card and takes pictures with an electron microscope. With this technique, it is possible to reveal the complete hardware and software part of the smart card. The major problem for the attacker is to bring everything into the right order to find out how everything works. The makers of the card try to hide keys and operations by mixing up memory positions, for example, bus scrambling.\nIn some cases, it is even possible to attach a probe to measure voltages while the smart card is still operational. The makers of the card employ sensors to detect and prevent this attack. This attack is not very common because it requires a large investment in effort and special equipment that is generally only available to large chip manufacturers. Furthermore, the payoff from this attack is low since other security techniques are often employed such as shadow accounts. It is uncertain at this time whether attacks against CHIP/PIN cards to replicate encryption data and consequentially crack PINS would provide a cost effective attack on multifactor authentication.\n\nReverse engineering is often used by people in order to copy other nations' technologies, devices, or information that have been obtained by regular troops in the fields or by intelligence operations. It was often used during the Second World War and the Cold War. Well-known examples from WWII and later include:\n\nReverse engineering applies primarily to gaining understanding of a process or artifact, where the manner of its construction, use, or internal processes is not made clear by its creator.\n\nPatented items do not of themselves have to be reverse-engineered to be studied, since the essence of a patent is that the inventor provides detailed public disclosure themselves, and in return receives legal protection of the invention involved. However, an item produced under one or more patents could also include other technology that is not patented and not disclosed. Indeed, one common motivation of reverse engineering is to determine whether a competitor's product contains patent infringements or copyright infringements.\n\nIn the United States even if an artifact or process is protected by trade secrets, reverse-engineering the artifact or process is often lawful as long as it has been legitimately obtained.\n\nReverse engineering of computer software in the US often falls under both contract law as a breach of contract as well as any other relevant laws. This is because most EULAs (end user license agreement) specifically prohibit it, and U.S. courts have ruled that if such terms are present, they override the copyright law which expressly permits it (see \"Bowers v. Baystate Technologies\"). Sec. 103(f) of the DMCA (17 U.S.C. § 1201 (f)) says that a person who is in legal possession of a program, is permitted to reverse-engineer and circumvent its protection if this is necessary in order to achieve \"interoperability\" — a term broadly covering other devices and programs being able to interact with it, make use of it, and to use and transfer data to and from it, in useful ways. A limited exemption exists that allows the knowledge thus gained to be shared and used for interoperability purposes.\n\nEU Directive 2009/24 on the legal protection of computer programs, which superseded an earlier (1991) directive, governs reverse engineering in the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131649", "title": "Sanctions against Iraq", "text": "Sanctions against Iraq\n\nThe sanctions against Iraq were a near-total financial and trade embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council on Ba'athist Iraq. They began August 6, 1990, four days after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, stayed largely in force until May 2003 (after Saddam Hussein's being forced from power), and persisted in part, including reparations to Kuwait, through the present. The original stated purposes of the sanctions were to compel Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, to pay reparations, and to disclose and eliminate any weapons of mass destruction.\n\nInitially the UN Security Council imposed stringent economic sanctions on Iraq by adopting and enforcing United Nations Security Council Resolution 661. After the end of the 1991 Persian Gulf War, those sanctions were extended and elaborated on, including linkage to removal of weapons of mass destruction, by Resolution 687. The sanctions banned all trade and financial resources except for medicine and \"in humanitarian circumstances\" foodstuffs, the import of which into Iraq was tightly regulated.\n\nThe effects of the sanctions on the civilian population of Iraq have been disputed. Whereas it was widely believed that the sanctions caused a major rise in child mortality, research following the 2003 invasion of Iraq has shown that commonly cited data were doctored by the Saddam Hussein regime and that \"there was no major rise in child mortality in Iraq after 1990 and during the period of the sanctions\".\n\nResolutions 660, 661, 662, 664, 665, 666, 667, 669, 670, 674, 677, 678 and 687 expressed the goals of eliminating weapons of mass destruction and extended-range ballistic missiles, prohibiting any support for terrorism, and forcing Iraq to pay war reparations and all foreign debt.\n\nAs described by the \"United Nations Office of the Iraq Programme\", the United Nations Security Council Resolution 661 imposed comprehensive sanctions on Iraq following that country’s invasion of Kuwait. These sanctions included strict limits both on the items that could be imported into Iraq and on those that could be exported.\n\nInitially, the UN Sanctions Committee issued no complete list of items that could not be imported into Iraq. Instead, it evaluated applications for importing items to Iraq on a case-by-case basis, in theory allowing foodstuffs, medicines and products for essential civilian needs and barring everything else.\n\nPersons wishing to deliver items to Iraq, whether in trade or for charitable donation, were required to apply for export licenses to the authorities of one or more UN member state, who then sent the application to the Sanctions Committee. The Committee made its decision in secret; any Committee member could veto a permission without giving any reason. As a rule, anything that could have a conceivable military use was banned, such as computers, tractors, and trousers, although Committee asserted its sole discretion in determining what is essential for every Iraqi and either permitting or denying any thing to the Iraqi population. If the Committee granted approval, it notified the country where the application came from; that country then informed the applicant; the applicant then shipped the items, but the items remained subject to inspection and risk of impoundment.\n\nIn 2002 the process was streamlined, and the sanctions committee established a 'Good Review List' for certain items. Anything not on the Goods Review list could be imported without restriction, while items with dual-purpose items would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.\n\nLimitations on Iraqi exports (chiefly oil) made it difficult to fund the import of goods into Iraq. Following the 1991 Gulf War, a United Nations inter-agency mission assessed that \"the Iraqi people may soon face a further imminent catastrophe, which could include epidemic and famine, if massive life-supporting needs are not rapidly met.\" The Government of Iraq declined offers (in UNSRC resolutions 706 and 712) to enable Iraq to sell limited quantities of oil to meet its people's needs.\nActing under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the Security Council established the Oil for Food Programme via resolution 986 on 14 April 1995 as intended a \"temporary measure to provide for the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people, until the fulfillment by Iraq of the relevant Security Council resolutions...\".\nImplementation of the Programme started in December 1996; its first shipment of supplies arrived in March 1997. The Programme was funded exclusively with the proceeds from Iraqi oil exports. At first, Iraq was permitted to sell $2 billion worth of oil every six months, with two-thirds of that amount to be used to meet Iraq’s humanitarian needs. In 1998, the limit was raised to $5.26 billion every six months. In December 1999, Security Council resolution 1284 removed the limit on the amount of oil exported.\n\nWith the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1330 in 2000, Iraqi oil export proceeds were allocated as follows:, \n\nOf the 72% allocated to humanitarian purposes:\n\nEnforcement of the sanctions was primarily by means of military force and legal sanctions. Following the passage of Security Council Resolution 665, a \"Multinational Interception Force\" was organized and led by the United States to intercept, inspect and possibly impound vessels, cargoes and crews suspected of carrying freight to or from Iraq.\n\nThe legal side of sanctions included enforcement through actions brought by individual governments. In the United States, legal enforcement was handled by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). For example, in 2005 OFAC fined Voices in the Wilderness $20,000 for gifting medicine and other humanitarian supplies to Iraqis without prior acquisition of an export license as required by law. In a similar case, OFAC is still attempting to collect (as of 2011) a $10,000 fine, plus interest, against Bert Sacks for bringing medicine to residents of Basra.\n\nThere is a general consensus that the sanctions achieved the express goals of limiting Iraqi arms. For example, U.S. Under Secretary of Defense Douglas J. Feith says that the sanctions diminished Iraq militarily and scholars George A. Lopez and David Cortright say sanctions compelled Iraq to accept inspections and monitoring; winning concessions from Baghdad on political issue such as the border dispute with Kuwait; preventing the rebuilding of Iraqi defenses after the Persian Gulf War; and blocking the import of materials and technologies for producing weapons of mass destruction\". Hussein told his FBI interrogator that Iraq's armaments \"had been eliminated by the UN sanctions.\"\n\nHigh rates of malnutrition, lack of medical supplies, and diseases from lack of clean water were reported during sanctions. In 2001, the chairman of the Iraqi Medical Association's scientific committee sent a plea to the \"BMJ\" to help it raise awareness of the disastrous effects the sanctions were having on the Iraqi healthcare system.\n\nThe modern Iraqi economy had been highly dependent on oil exports; in 1989, the oil sector comprised 61% of the GNP. A drawback of this dependence was the narrowing of the economic base, with the agricultural sector rapidly declining in the 1970s. Some claim that, as a result, the post-1990 sanctions had a particularly devastating effect on Iraq’s economy and food security levels of the population.\n\nShortly after the sanctions were imposed, the Iraqi government developed a system of free food rations consisting of 1000 calories per person/day or 40% of the daily requirements, on which an estimated 60% of the population relied for a vital part of their sustenance. With the introduction of the Oil-for-Food Programme in 1997, this situation gradually improved. In May 2000 a United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) survey noted that almost half the children under 5 years suffered from diarrhoea, in a country where the population is marked by its youth, with 45% being under 14 years of age in 2000. Power shortages, lack of spare parts and insufficient technical know-how lead to the breakdown of many modern facilities. The per capita income in Iraq dropped from $3510 in 1989 to $450 in 1996, heavily influenced by the rapid devaluation of the Iraqi dinar.\n\nIraq had been one of the few countries in the Middle East that invested in women’s education. But this situation changed from the late eighties on with increasing militarisation and a declining economic situation. Consequently, the economic hardships and war casualties in the last decades have increased the number of women-headed households and working women.\n\nThomas Nagy argued in September 2001 issue of \"The Progressive\" magazine that United States' government intelligence and actions in the previous ten years demonstrates that the United States government had acted to intentionally destroy Iraq's water supply. Michael Rubin criticized Nagy for \"selective\" use of sources and argued that \"the documentary evidence eviscerates Nagy's conclusions\":\n\nThe oil-for-food program has already spent more than $1 billion in water and sanitation projects in Iraq. Baghdad estimates that providing adequate sanitation and water resources would cost an additional $328 million. However, such an allocation is more than possible given the billions of dollars in oil revenue Baghdad receives each year under sanctions, and the additional $1 billion dollars per year it receives from transport of smuggled oil on the Syrian pipeline alone. Indeed, if Saddam Hussein's government has managed to spend more than $2 billion for new presidential palaces since the end of the Persian Gulf War, and offer to donate nearly $1 billion to support the Palestinian intifada, there is no reason to blame sanctions for any degradation in water and sanitation systems.\nDenis Halliday was appointed United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Baghdad, Iraq as of 1 September 1997, at the Assistant Secretary-General level. In October 1998 he resigned after a 34-year career with the UN in order to have the freedom to criticise the sanctions regime, saying \"I don't want to administer a programme that satisfies the definition of genocide\" However, Sophie Boukhari, a UNESCO Courier journalist, reports that \"some legal experts are skeptical about or even against using such terminology\" and quotes Mario Bettati for the view that \"People who talk like that don’t know anything about law. The embargo has certainly affected the Iraqi people badly, but that’s not at all a crime against humanity or genocide.\"\n\nHalliday's successor, Hans von Sponeck, subsequently also resigned in protest, calling the effects of the sanctions a \"true human tragedy\". Jutta Burghardt, head of the World Food Program in Iraq, followed them.\n\nEstimates of excess deaths during the sanctions vary widely, use different methodologies and cover different time-frames. The figure of 500,000 child deaths was for a long period widely cited, but recent research has shown that that figure was the result of survey data manipulated by the Saddam Hussein regime. A 1995 Lancet estimate put the number of child deaths at 567,000, but when one of the authors of the study followed up on it a year later, \"many of the deaths were not confirmed in the reinterviews. Moreover, it emerged that some miscarriages and stillbirths had been wrongly classified as child deaths in 1995.\" A 1999 UNICEF report found that 500,000 children died as a result of sanctions, but comprehensive surveys after 2003 failed to find such child mortality rates. A 2017 study in the \"British Medical Journal\" described \"the rigging of the 1999 Unicef survey\" as \"an especially masterful fraud\". The three comprehensive surveys conducted since 2003 all found that the child mortality rate in the period 1995-2000 was approximately 40 per 1000, which means that there was no major rise in child mortality in Iraq after sanctions were implemented.\n\nAs the sanctions faced mounting condemnation for its humanitarian impacts, several UN resolutions were introduced that allowed Iraq to trade its oil for goods such as food and medicines. The earliest of these, Resolution 706 of 15 August 1991, allowed the sale of Iraqi oil in exchange for food. Resolution 712 of 19 September 1991 confirmed that Iraq could sell up to $1.6 billion USD in oil to fund an Oil For Food program.\n\nIn 1996, Iraq was allowed under the UN Oil-for-Food Programme (under Security Council Resolution 986) to export $5.2 billion USD of oil every 6 months with which to purchase items needed to sustain the civilian population. After an initial refusal, Iraq signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in May 1996 for implementation of that resolution. The Oil-for-Food Programme started in October 1997, and the first shipments of food arrived in March 1998. Twenty-five percent of the proceeds were redirected to a Persian Gulf War reparations account, and three percent into United Nations programs related to Iraq.\n\nWhile the programme is credited with improving the conditions of the population, it was not free from controversy. Denis Halliday, who oversaw the Programme, believed it was inadequate to compensate for the adverse humanitarian impacts of the sanctions. The U.S. State Department criticized the Iraqi government for inadequately spending the money, exporting food, and refusing to accept the program for several years after it was offered in 1991. In 2004/5 the Programme became the subject of major media attention over corruption, as allegations surfaced such as that Iraq had systematically sold allocations of oil at below-market prices in return for some of the proceeds from the resale outside the scope of the Programme; investigations implicated individuals and companies from dozens of countries. See Oil For Food Programme - Investigations.\n\nFollowing the 2003 Iraq War, the sanctions regime was largely ended on May 22, 2003 (with certain exceptions related to arms and to oil revenue) by paragraph 10 of UN Security Council Resolution 1483.\n\nSanctions which gave the US and UK control over Iraq's oil revenue were not removed until December 2010. Chapter VII sanctions which required 5% of Iraq's oil and natural gas revenue to be paid to Kuwait as reparations for Saddam Hussain's invasion have since been lifted, leaving approximately 11 billion USD unpaid to the government of Kuwait. http://www.crethiplethi.com/khudheir-mussa-al-khuzaie-vice-president-of-iraq-addresses-general-assembly-68th-session-2013/islamic-countries/iraq-islamic-countries/2013/\n\nScholar Ramon Das, in the Human Rights Research Journal of the New Zealand Center for Public Law, examined each of the \"most widely accepted ethical frameworks\" in the context of violations of Iraqi human rights under the sanctions, finding that \"primary responsibility rests with the UNSC [United Nations Security Council]\" under these frameworks, including rights-utilitarianism, moral Kantianism, and consequentialism. Many academics, American and UN officials, and Iraqi citizens contend that this ignores the overriding control of Saddam Hussein and the corrupt contractors who maintained it, as well as the consequences of allowing Hussein to continue his policies with no deterrence and unlimited capacity.\n\nSome commentators blame Saddam Hussein for the excess deaths during this period. For example, Rubin argued that the Kurdish and the Iraqi governments handled Oil For Food aid differently, and that therefore the Iraqi government policy, rather than the sanctions themselves, should be held responsible for any negative effects. Likewise, David Cortright claimed: \"The tens of thousands of excess deaths in the south-center, compared to the similarly sanctioned but UN-administered north, are the result of Baghdad's failure to accept and properly manage the UN humanitarian relief effort.\" In the run-up to the Iraq War, some disputed the idea that excess mortality exceeded 500,000, because the Iraqi government had interfered with objective collection of statistics (independent experts were barred).\n\nOther Western observers, such as Matt Welch and Anthony Arnove, argue that the differences in results noted by authors such as Rubin (above) may have been because the sanctions were not the same in the two parts of Iraq, due to several regional differences: in the per capita money, in war damage to infrastructure and in the relative ease with which smugglers evaded sanctions through the porous Northern borders. This argument was debunked by several UN-sponsored studies taken after the overthrow of Saddam's regime, which revealed that the previous childhood mortality figures for South/Central Iraq were inflated by more than a factor of two and that the childhood mortality rate in those regions was even lower than the rate in northern Iraq.\n\nSome persons, such as Walter Russell Mead, accepted a large estimate of casualties due to sanctions, but argued that invading Iraq was better than continuing the sanctions regime, since \"Each year of containment is a new Gulf War.\"\nFormer British Prime Minister Tony Blair, in his testimony to the Chilcot Inquiry, also argued that ending sanctions was one benefit of the war. Citing recent studies disproving any increase in childhood mortality in Iraq under the sanctions regime, Michael Spagat declared \"this claim should now take up its rightful place in the historical record next to Iraq's mythical weapons of mass destruction.\"\n\nThere were also arguments saying the sanctions had not been as effective as people had thought, due to reports of companies not following trade sanctions on Iraq during this time. One of those countries being France as shown in The Guardian , Washington Times according to Bill Gertz, and New York Times articles that they had been trading Iraq weapons, supplies and nuclear technology leading up to and some argue after the sanctions helping support the Iraq government. So overall the sanctions didn't help in the way it was intended or at least were not successful.\n\nOn May 12, 1996, Madeleine Albright (then U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations) appeared on a \"60 Minutes\" segment in which Lesley Stahl asked her \"We have heard that half a million children have died. I mean, that's more children than died in Hiroshima. And, you know, are is the price worth it?\" and Albright replied \"I think this is a very hard choice, but the price, we think the price is worth it.\"\nAlbright wrote later that Saddam Hussein, not the sanctions, was to blame. She criticized Stahl's segment as \"amount[ing] to Iraqi propaganda\"; said that her question was a loaded question; wrote \"I had fallen into a trap and said something I did not mean\"; and regretted coming \"across as cold-blooded and cruel\". The segment won an Emmy Award. Albright's \"non-denial\" was taken by sanctions opponents as confirmation of a high number of sanctions related casualties.\n\nThere is evidence that the Iraqi government did not fully cooperate with the sanctions. For example, Hussein's son-in-law is heard speaking of concealing information from UN inspectors on audiotapes released in 2006. \"I go back to the question of whether we should reveal everything or continue to be silent. Sir, since the meeting has taken this direction, I would say it is in our interest not to reveal.\" Hussein may have considered the many governments' displeasure with him, but particularly that of two veto-wielding UNSC members, the United States and United Kingdom (both of which took the hardest lines on Iraq), as a no-win situation and disincentive to cooperation in the process.\n\nIt has been alleged that UNSCOM had been infiltrated by British and American spies for purposes other than determining if Iraq possessed WMDs. Former inspector Scott Ritter was a prominent source of these charges. Former UNSCOM chief inspector David Kay said \"the longer it continued, the more the intelligence agencies would, often for very legitimate reasons, decide that they had to use the access they got through cooperation with UNSCOM to carry out their missions\".\n\nRenewed pressure in 2002 led to the entry of UNMOVIC, which eventually received some degree of cooperation; before it could complete its work, the United States required it to leave Iraq to avoid its impending 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "730244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730244", "title": "Social engineering (political science)", "text": "Social engineering (political science)\n\nSocial engineering is a discipline in social science that refers to efforts to influence particular attitudes and social behaviors on a large scale, whether by governments, media or private groups in order to produce desired characteristics in a target population. Social engineering can also be understood philosophically as a deterministic phenomenon where the intentions and goals of the architects of the new social construct are realized.\n\nSocial engineers use the scientific method to analyze and understand social systems in order to design the appropriate methods to achieve the desired results in the human subjects.\n\nDecision-making can affect the safety and survival of billions of people. The scientific theory expressed by German sociologist Ferdinand Tönnies in his study \"The Present Problems of Social Structure\", proposes that society can no longer operate successfully using outmoded methods of social management. To achieve the best outcomes, all conclusions and decisions must use the most advanced techniques and include reliable statistical data, which can be applied to a social system. According to this, social engineering is a data-based scientific system used to develop a sustainable design so as to achieve the intelligent management of Earth’s resources and human capital with the highest levels of freedom, prosperity, and happiness within a population.\n\nAs a result of abuse by authoritarian regimes and other non-inclusive attempts at social engineering, the term has in cases been imbued with a negative connotation. In British and Canadian jurisprudence, changing public attitudes about a behaviour is accepted as one of the key functions of laws prohibiting the behaviour. Governments also influence behavior more subtly through incentives and disincentives built into economic policy and tax policy, for instance, and have done so for centuries.\n\nR. D. Ingthorsson states that a human being is a biological creature from birth but is from then on shaped as a person through social influences (upbringing/socialisation) and is in that sense a social construction, a product of society.\n\nThe Dutch industrialist J.C. Van Marken () introduced the term \"sociale ingenieurs\" in an essay in 1894. The idea was that modern employers needed the assistance of specialists—\"social engineers\"—in handling the \"human\" challenges, just as they needed technical expertise (traditional engineers) to deal with non-human challenges (materials, machines, processes). The term came to America in 1899, when the notion of \"social engineering\" was also launched as the name of the task of the social engineer in this sense. \"Social engineering\" was the title of a small journal in 1899 (from 1900 named \"Social Service\"), and in 1909 the title of a book by its former editor, William H. Tolman (translated into French in 1910), marking the end of the usage of the terminology in the sense of Van Marken. With the Social Gospel sociologist Edwin L. Earp's \"The Social Engineer\", published during the \"efficiency craze\" of 1911 in the U.S., the usage of the term was launched that has since then been standard: the one building on a metaphor of social relations as \"machineries\", to be dealt with in the manner of the technical engineer.\n\nA prerequisite of social engineering is a body of reliable information about the society that is to be engineered and effective tools to carry out the engineering. The availability of which has dramatically increased within the past one hundred years. Prior to the invention of the printing press, it was difficult for groups outside of the wealthy to gain access to a reliable body of information, as the media for conveying the information was prohibitively expensive. With the rise of the information age, information can be distributed and produced on an unprecedented scale. Similarly digital technology has increased the variety and access of effective tools. However, it has also created questionably reliable bodies of information.\n\nSocial engineering can be carried out by any organization, without regard to scale, or sponsorship in the public or private sector. Some of the most comprehensive, and most pervasive campaigns of social engineering are those initiated by powerful central governments with the systems of authority to widely affect the individuals and cultures within their purview.\n\nExtremely intensive social engineering campaigns occurred in countries with authoritarian governments. In the 1920s the government of the Soviet Union embarked on a campaign to fundamentally alter the behavior and ideals of Soviet citizens, to replace the old social frameworks of the Russian Empire with a new Soviet culture, to create the New Soviet man. The Soviets used newspapers, books, film, mass relocations, and even architectural-design tactics to serve as a \"social condenser\" and to change personal values and private relationships. In a less positive manner, political executions (for example the Night of the Murdered Poets in Moscow in 1952), and arguably fear of becoming a victim of mass murder with the Mass killings under Communist regimes, played an influential role in the social engineering frameworks in Soviet Russia. Similar examples include the Chinese \"Great Leap Forward\" (1958–1961) and \"Cultural Revolution\" (1966–1976) programs and the Khmer Rouge's deurbanization of Cambodia (1975–1979). In Singapore, the government's housing policies attempt to promote a mix of all races within each subsidized housing district in order to foster social cohesion and national loyalty while providing citizens with affordable housing. In Tanzania in the 1970s, the government pursued a policy of enforced villagisation under Operation Vijiji in order to promote collective farming.\n\nNon-authoritarian regimes tend to rely on more sustained social engineering campaigns that create more gradual, but ultimately far-reaching, change. Examples include the \"War on Drugs\" in the United States, the increasing reach of intellectual-property rights and copyright, and the promotion of elections as a political tool. The campaign for promoting elections, which is by far the most successful of the three examples, has been in place for over two centuries. Social theorists of the Frankfurt School in Weimar Germany like Theodor Adorno had observed the new phenomenon of mass culture and commented on its new manipulative power, when the rise of the National Socialists drove them out of the country around 1930 (many of them became connected with the Institute for Social Research in the United States). National Socialists themselves were no strangers to the idea of influencing political attitudes and redefining personal relationships. The national-socialist propaganda machine under Joseph Goebbels was a synchronized, sophisticated and effective tool for shaping public opinion.\n\nIn a similar vein the Greek military junta of 1967–1974 attempted to steer Greek public opinion not only by propaganda but also by inventing new words and slogans such as \"palaiokommatismos\" (old-partyism), \"Ellas Ellinon Christianon\" (Greece of Christian Greeks), and \"Ethnosotirios Epanastasis\" (nation-saving revolution, meaning \"coup d'état\").\n\nSocial engineering can be used as a means to achieve a wide variety of different results, as illustrated by the different governments and other organizations that have employed it. Discussion of the possibilities for such manipulation became especially active following World War II, with the advent of mass television, and continuing discussion of techniques of social engineering, particularly in advertising, and bias-based journalism, remains quite pertinent in the western model of consumer capitalism. Journalism, when the intent is not to report objectively, but to report with an intent to sway popular attitudes and social behaviors or to \"shape public opinion\", comes under the scope of social engineering. This also applies when information that would bring into question the viewpoints and social goals of a journalistic establishment is withheld in favor of other information. Within ethical journalism the knowledge of both personal and establishment/producer bias allows the journalist to avoid social engineering by correcting it and by reporting factual evidence in a way which does not promote or oppose attitudes and social behaviors, and thereby portray or deny them as the \"popular\" attitude and preferable social behavior by virtue of the establishment's authority or possession of a national or international platform.\n\nNote that social engineering practiced in exclusion of cultural elements and interacting societies has led to pogroms and to mass murders, particularly when employed by authoritarian regimes. Often this occurs because these cultures or societies are perceived as possessing \"undesirable\" traits. The acting engineers have used the simple \"effective\" tool of violence rather than the difficult and time-consuming methods of persuasion and logic.\n\nCaution in social engineering methods includes consideration of the inherent incompleteness of their body of information and how it affects their utilization of tools at hand. Analysis of social engineering goals and their desirability—which includes the desires of the community which they desire to engineer—answer the question of the ethics of disclosure. Social engineering without consent is a violation of the culture, and constitutes an assault tantamount to a rape, or seizing by force of that culture raptio. Consent, full disclosure and involvement, presents additional difficulties which help to avoid marginalization and feelings of violation within the culture. Long-term attempts at social engineering in the Middle East may be considered to have extreme backlash, as a result of being non inclusive of the cultural values, body of reliable information, or utilization of effective tools.\n\nIn defense of the comparison to rape, consider the article Raptio, which describes the origin of the word, which meant \"seize prey, take by force\", from \"raper\", an Old French legal term for \"to seize\", in turn from Latin \"rapere\"—\"seize, carry off by force, abduct\". Social engineering is an exercise of removing an attitude or behavior and replacing it with another. Which is done with force, when done without consent, that constitutes a violation through abducting an individual or societies culture and replacing it with the engineers' culture.\n\nIn Egypt, social engineering is being practiced by the current authoritarian regime and by the media controlled by the Egyptian Intelligence, Military since July 2013. The coup d'état engineered by them to overthrow the first democratic elected president, former president Mohamed Morsi. The media had been criticizing the every move of the Morsi during this one year presidency which fueled many opposition against him and resulted in demonstrations against him in Tahrir Square in June 30 of 2013. Despite many supporters of the Morsi also came to the street to support him. They were later all killed and imprisoned in the Rabaa Massacre and were labeled as terrorists when General Abdel-fatah el Sisi called to give him support to end terrorism.\nSince then Sisi has been using social engineering by controlling the media and falsifying evidences and news to gain support, blocking many news agency that opposes him and VPN providers to prevent citizens from gaining any other source of news other than the one controlled by him.\nSocial Engineering is also being used on children in schools by ordering children to repeat sentences in support of Sisi like \"Long live president Sisi\". The video was shared on social media Facebook and viewed by 1.5 million viewers. It is believed by many Egyptians it is an act to imprint on children in order to shift their behavior and thinking fearing another revolution in the future like the one that ousted former president Mubarak that was led by youth and young adults in January 2011. Something a little similar to Nazi Germany when Hitler was using children.\n\nIn India, social engineering was effectively done in the state of Bihar, on a grander scale, to unify different castes after 2005. The coherency of voting allegiances based on social extremes among upper castes and Dalits were challenged by this vote (Poll in Indian reference).\n\nIn his classic political science book, \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\", volume I, \"The Spell of Plato\" (1945), Karl Popper examined the application of the critical and rational methods of science to the problems of the open society. In this respect, he made a crucial distinction between the principles of \"democratic\" social engineering (what he called \"piecemeal social engineering\") and \"Utopian\" social engineering.\n\nPopper wrote:\nAccording to Popper, the difference between \"piecemeal social engineering\" and \"Utopian social engineering\" is:\n\n"}
{"id": "19885463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19885463", "title": "Stonewall Awards", "text": "Stonewall Awards\n\nThe Stonewall Awards was an annual event by Stonewall to recognize people who have affected the lives of British lesbian, gay, bi and trans people. The event was first held in 2006 at the Royal Academy of Arts and from 2007 was held at the Victoria and Albert Museum. It was held for the final time, with '...of the Decade' categories, in 2015.\n\nThe inaugural event was held at the Royal Academy of Arts.\n\nStonewall nominated Julie Bindel for the 2008 Journalist of the Year award. This nomination was controversial due to her view on transsexualism and lead to a protest taking place outside of the awards venue.\n\nHeld on 3 November 2011.\n\nThe 2012 awards were held on 1 November, with the award of \"Bigot of the Year\" to Cardinal Keith O'Brien drawing protest from the Catholic Church in Scotland, of which he was head. Criticism of the bigot award from the winner of the Politician of the Year award, Ruth Davidson, lead to her being \"booed off-stage\".\n"}
{"id": "48508959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48508959", "title": "Thelma Dale Perkins", "text": "Thelma Dale Perkins\n\nThelma Dale Perkins (1915-2014) was an African-American activist. Her maternal uncle was Frederick Douglass Patterson. She joined the Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, the Liberal Club, which \"advocated for the integration of African Americans\" into the greater society, the Southern Negro Youth Congress, and the American Youth Congress. As a member of the American Youth Congress she went to the White House for \"chats\" sponsored by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt to discuss the issues facing young people. She graduated from Howard University in 1936. She worked for E. Franklin Frasier on a National Youth Administration Fellowship, and worked for the federal government, but as she recalled, \"I resigned from the government rather than sign a loyalty oath and accepted the job of National Secretary of the National Negro Congress in New York City.\" In 1945 she attended the founding meeting of the Women's International Democratic Federation, held in Paris.\n\nShe was friends with Paul Robeson and his wife Eslanda Robeson, and worked as managing editor for \nPaul's \"Freedom\" newspaper, and was involved in a campaign to get his passport restored. She wrote a tribute to Paul Robeson in the book \"Paul Robeson: The Great Forerunner\" (1998), by the editors of Freedomways. She was a manager of community relations for CIBA-GEIGY Corporation, where she initiated and developed the \"Exceptional Black Scientist\" series, which was nationally recognized. \n\nShe married Lawrence Rickman Perkins Jr., in 1957, and adopted two babies, Lawrence Dale Perkins and Patrice Dale Perkins.\n\nIn the Dale/Patterson Family papers in the Anacostia Community Museum Archives there is a small collection related to her, donated by her niece Dianne Dale. \n\n\"Radicalism at the Crossroads: African American Women Activists in the Cold War\", by Dayo Gore (2011) [about Thelma Dale Perkins and others]\n"}
{"id": "16732513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16732513", "title": "Timeline of the breakup of Yugoslavia", "text": "Timeline of the breakup of Yugoslavia\n\nThe breakup of Yugoslavia was a process in which the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was broken up into constituent republics, and over the course of which the Yugoslav wars started. The process generally began with the death of Josip Broz Tito on 4 May 1980 and formally ended when the last two remaining republics (SR Serbia and SR Montenegro) proclaimed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 27 April 1992. At that time the Yugoslav wars were still ongoing, and FR Yugoslavia continued to exist until 2003, when it was renamed and reformed as the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. This union lasted until 5 June 2006 when Montenegro proclaimed independence. The former Yugoslav autonomous province of Kosovo subsequently proclaimed independence from Serbia in February 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50258327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50258327", "title": "Ukrainian National Party", "text": "Ukrainian National Party\n\nThe Ukrainian National Party (, \"Ukrainska Natsionalna Partiia\", UNP; , PNU) was a right-wing agrarian group, representing the Ukrainian minority in Romania. Its founder and president was the scholar Volodymyr Zalozetsky-Sas, who supported the \"classocratic\" Hetmanism of Pavlo Skoropadskyi and Vyacheslav Lypynsky; the PNU leadership also included Vasyl Dutchak, Teodor Ivanytsky, and Lev Kohut, who stood for more moderate currents of Ukrainian nationalism. Always strongest among the Ukrainians of Bukovina, the party was united in its opposition to Romanianization, but overall accepted Romanian rule. Its more radical faction, supportive of \"Greater Ukraine\", gravitated toward the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists after 1933; the mainstream did not.\n\nThe UNP emerged after a seven-year hiatus, during which many Ukrainians boycotted Romanian politics, concentrated on cultural campaigns, or took up repressed causes such as socialism. Returning from self-imposed exile, Zalozetsky-Sas took over for Dutchak and his Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, synchronizing with the Ukrainian nationalist groups in Poland and Czechoslovakia. The attempts to spread the movement into Bessarabia and Maramureș were disavowed by the Romanian authorities.\n\nFounded in 1926, the UNP registered its first electoral gains in 1928, an ally of the National Peasants' Party. Its team contested all the elections of the following nine years, often against other Ukrainians or Rusyns, and almost always in alliance with mainstream parties. Around 1933, its anti-communism made it prone to infiltration by Nazi agents. Its final appearance was during the 1937 race, when it won its last seat in Parliament in cartel with the National Liberal Party. Like all other Romanian parties, the UNP was banned, in early 1938, by the National Renaissance Front. Zalozetsky-Sas and other former UNP leaders served as Ukrainian representatives within the Front before the Soviet occupation of 1940.\n\nBy the end of World War I, Austria-Hungary's Duchy of Bukovina had come to be disputed between the Kingdom of Romania and the West Ukrainian People's Republic (ZUNR). Most of the Bukovinan Ukrainians, centered in the northern half, supported incorporation with a Ukrainian state; the Romanians, who were concentrated in the south, formed a General Congress of Bukovina, which obtained the region's de facto incorporation into Greater Romania. As a result, the Ukrainian elites opted to boycott the Congress—Zalozetsky-Sas, Hierotheus Pihuliak, and Stepan Smal-Stotskyi left Bukovina in protest, confident that the Paris Peace Conference would sort matters in their favor. Father Kassian Bogatyrets, who stood for the prewar Russophile movement, remained in Romanian-held territory and represented the Ukrainian community at negotiations with the new administration.\n\nTo 1919, Zalozetsky-Sas served the ZUNR's foreign diplomacy as an envoy to German-Austria and Switzerland. After the ZUNR's disestablishment, he also became a celebrated art historian, researching the impact of Gothic and Baroque architecture in Western Ukraine. Politically, he and his mentor Vyacheslav Lypynsky supported the revival of a monarchical Ukrainian Hetmanate, and were ideologically opposed to the left-leaning People's Republic (UNR) and Symon Petliura. Their \"classocratic\" program fused agrarianism, producerism and corporatism, criticizing party democracy, and upholding Skoropadskyi as the guarantee of Ukrainian unity. In Vienna, Zalozetsky-Sas joined Lypynsky's Ukrainian Agrarian Statist Party (USKhD), which, in 1921, also organized a chapter in Romania—the Union of Ukrainian Agrarians, presided upon by P. Novitsky in Bucharest.\n\nIn Bukovina, the Romanian nationalist Ion Nistor and his Democratic Union Party seized the opportunity and ran pro-Romanian Ukrainians and Poles as candidates for the 1919 elections. Active on the left side of the spectrum, Constantin Krakalia joined the Socialist Party. In early 1920, he spent time in prison for protesting against the People's Party (PP) government's clampdown on Ukrainian socialism. He ran in the elections of May against Bogatyrets, taking a seat in the Assembly of Deputies, where he demanded a plebiscite over the territorial status of Bukovina and Maramureș. The election of November 1922 were held under the watch of National Liberal Party (PNL), which supported centralizing policies. During the race, the incumbent Rusyn Senator Jevhen Kozak was arrested and intimidated. Fearing persecution, Krakalia made his way into the opposition Peasants' Party; the other Ukrainian socialists soon came into contact with the Union for the Liberation of Ukraine, and were either arrested or pushed to leave Romania.\n\nAnother group, the Ukrainian National Organization, was founded in Cernăuți (\"Chernivtsi\") by lawyers Vasyl Dutchak and Lev Kohut. Kohut edited its weekly \"Ridnyi Krai\", while Dutchak inaugurated the Ukrainian protests against Romanianization, addressing four reports on the matter to the League of Nations. Some referred to the reforms of Constantin Angelescu, the Education Minister, which had made it a requirement for Ukrainian teachers to learn Romanian language and history, while also dissolving the community schools.\n\nIn 1922, Dutchak founded his own Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, where he mainly focused on language rights and strategies for the promotion of Ukrainian in legal contexts. At the time, he accused the Romanian establishment of aiming to \"effect the destruction of the Ukrainian people in Bukovina\". This moderate-critical wing later reemerged and the Ukrainian People's Party and Ukrainian Democratic People's Party, focused on moderate projects of cultural improvement, and being supported by \"Ridnyi Krai\". Their leadership included Dutchak, Kohut, and Antin Lukasevych. Lukasevych and Iurii Lysan both took seats in Parliament in the election of summer 1926, after having caucused with the PP.\n\nAlso in 1926, Zalozetsky-Sas made his return to Romania and established the UNP, with support from the Ukrainian National Democratic Alliance in neighboring Poland. It soon after registered as its electoral logo \"two circles bordering each other, each split by a vertical diameter\". Zalozetsky-Sas was its president, with Yurii Serbyniuk as his second, and with Dutchak, Kohut and Lysan as prominent party organizers. Other major figures of the UNP include Teodor Ivanytsky, Orest Shkraba, and Denis Mayer-Mykhalsky. Another member, Anton Kyrylov, was the manager of its funds, and came up with a scheme whereby all Ukrainians would contribute 10% of their income to the UNP. The party's innovative institutions also included a \"High National Court\", which passed informal judgments on all contentious issues between Ukrainians.\n\nIts activity centered on Cernăuți, the UNP united more factions than the pro-Hetmanate \"classocrats\". It was also an ideological successor of Ivan Franko's National Democratic Party (to which Ivanytsky had belonged), and preserved a distinctly liberal wing, under Dutchak. Overall, the party supported national development inside Romania, including the establishment of co-operatives, credit unions and banks, and endorsed land reform; more particularly, it carried the protest against Romanianization, demanding the introduction of Ukrainian-language literature in schools and in Bukovina Orthodox churches. Zalozetsky-Sas was a participant in the International Congress of National Minorities, where he issued reports on the fate of Ukrainians in Romania, but also in Poland and the Soviet Union.\n\nThe Romanian writer Dragoș Vitencu reacted against the UNP's claims, arguing that Zalozetsky-Sas actually supported revisionism in favor of a \"chimera\" project, that of \"Greater Ukraine\". Such ideas were formally shunned by the UNP leadership, which only asked for a level of decentralization, and also by the UNR, which recognized Bukovina as part of Romania. However, Zalozetsky-Sas made statements advocating the preservation of \"strong links\" with the Ukrainians of Carpathian Ruthenia and Eastern Galicia. The explicitly irredentist line was preserved by the UNP youth organization, or Susor (affiliated with the Central Union of Ukrainian Students). Susor members staged nationalist propaganda campaigns in the countryside, often in an illegal association with the Plast scouts.\n\nThe UNP could count on some 32,000 voters in Bukovina. Its attempts to organize outside the region, among the Ukrainians of Maramureș or Bessarabia, were sabotaged by government, and registered few results. From October 1928, its main tribune was \"Chas\", the only Bukovinan Ukrainian daily. Put out by a staff which included Ivanytsky, Volodymyr Kmitsykevych, Teofil Bryndzan, and Kohut, it merged with \"Ridnyi Krai\" in 1930. According to Vitencu, this was an especially dangerous enterprise, which served to \"infect the villages\" with Ukrainian nationalist ideas. The women's interest pages were edited by Olha Huzar, leader of the women's \"hromada\". Two other periodicals, \"Narod\" and \"Narodnia Syla\", were also informally affiliated with the UNP.\n\nIn view of the December 1928 election, the UNP sought to form an alliance with the most Ukrainian-friendly party in the race. This produced, on November 11, an alliance with the opposition National Peasants' Party (PNȚ), which by then had a separate Ukrainian chapter, presided upon by Krakalia. Zalozetsky-Sas ran as a non-member affiliate of the PNȚ (the only UNP man accepted by the latter), winning the Senate seat for Storojineț County. From November 18, he had been reconfirmed as party leader by a 500-strong UNP First Congress. The Executive Committee also included Kohut, Serbyniuk, and Kyrylov. In 1930, during the partial elections for an Assembly seat in Storojineț County, the UNP was able to present a candidate of its own, Dutchak, who won. The following year, it managed the same feat in Cernăuți County, electing Shkraba to a seat previously held by Iacob Pistiner. Before March 1931, the UNP drifted apart from its PNȚ backers, and set up a parliamentary \"minorities bloc\", also including the German Party and the Magyar Party.\n\nRomania's political situation had changed with the return of Prince Carol, who took over as King of the Romanians, and appointed Nicolae Iorga as his Prime Minister in April. The previous elections and the UNP success had pushed Rusyns such as Bogatyrets and Kozak out of the political landscape. Their cause was still advanced by Constantin Isopescu-Grecul, who wanted Rusyns to have automatic parliamentary representation. In the end, Premier Iorga and his adviser Rudolf Brandsch preferred an understanding with Zalozetsky-Sas, \"paid for by schooling concessions\". By then, Krakalia had presented his resignation from the PNȚ. After trying to negotiate his entry into the UNP, he accepted eligible positions with the PP, and later the PNL.\n\nDuring the elections of June 1931, the UNP, alongside Brandsch's German Party, the Union of Romanian Jews, and Iorga's own Democratic Nationalist Party, ran on a single \"National Union\" list. Zalozetsky-Sas was reelected on this platform; Serbyniuk and Mayer-Mykhalsky also won seats. The following year, this association broke apart: the UNP, through Serbyniuk, refused to vote against Iorga's debt relief legislation, noting that it provided no help to his community. At the UNP Congress of June 20, 1932, the party formed a new cartel with the PNȚ, and all its three representatives were reconfirmed in the July elections. During the electoral confrontation, the PNL sought to split the UNP vote, presenting Rusyn candidates of its own, such as the former socialist Ivan Hyshka.\n\nIn 1930, as the USKhD crumbled into ideologically incompatible factions, Zalozetsky-Sas had rallied with Lypynsky's new group, the Brotherhood of Ukrainian Classocrats-Monarchist Hetmanites (BUKMH), which now opposed Skoropadskyi. The UNP and BUKMH repeatedly clashed with the UNR's government-in-exile, but also took distance from the combatant Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), which \"Chas\" excoriated in various articles. However, some informal meeting did take place between the UNP and the OUN, notably at Locarno in early 1933. During the latter, Yevhen Konovalets allegedly insisted that Zalozetsky-Sas merge his party into the OUN and become a supporter of the German Nazi Party (the latter had promised Konovalets the restoration of Ukrainian independence). Following the Nazi seizure of power, reports by \"Siguranța\" agents suggested that most UNP propagandists, in direct contact with the German agent Fritz Fabritius, had also joined the Romanian National Socialist Party.\n\nThe UNP leadership acknowledged some improvement in the status of Ukrainians under the PNȚ administrations, but was overall disappointed. Speaking in the Assembly, Serbyniuk described his community's stagnation: \"The Rumanian Governments have suppressed all the national cultural rights of the Ukrainians achieved by the latter during the days of Austrian rule by a struggle lasting fifty years. [...] It is particularly painful to us that the natural rights acquired by us in a prolonged struggle should be suppressed by those who have themselves experienced the pain of cultural oppression.\" By 1933, the party was in open conflict with the PNȚ Prime Minister, Alexandru Vaida-Voevod. Its anti-Soviet stance was heightened at the time, with news of the Terror-Famine leaking out to Bukovina; reportedly, UNP men began spreading praise of Nazi Germany, arguing that German re-armament would bring about a \"great and free Ukraine\". On September 3, 1933, Romanian infantry troops dispersed a UNP anti-communist gathering in front of Cernăuți Holy Spirit Cathedral, but allowed Zalozetsky-Sas to organize a more discreet vigil.\n\nBefore the December 1933 race, Zalozetsky-Sas took the eccentric measure of aligning his party with a small contender, the Radical Peasants' Party (PȚR). Also unusually, he was assigned the top position on the PȚR Assembly list for Cernăuți County—although he lost that battle, he won the Senate seat. On March 3, 1934, Zalozetsky-Sas petitioned the king, outlining his key grievances: \"persons belonging to the educated classes who are of Ukrainian nationality are unable to find employment; the Ukrainian children cannot obtain instruction in their mother-tongue; Rumanian priests, most of whom are quite ignorant of Ukrainian, are sent to Ukrainian church parishes.\" In early 1936, he addressed Parliament with another speech, in which he firmly requested the reintroduction of Ukrainian in schools. In September, he handed his senatorial mandate to Serbyniuk, announcing that he was no longer politically active. However, he failed in his bid to become honorary consul of the Austrian Corporate State, being deemed a \"Ukrainian fanatic\".\n\nBy 1934, the Susor branches, embracing Nazism, had begun defecting to the OUN. The UNP consolidated for a final time in the elections of December 1937, upon the end of Greater Romania's liberal vicennial. Its final alliance was with the PNL and, indirectly, Vaida-Voevod's Romanian Front, whom it reassured of its \"absolute loyalty toward the Romanian state\". Following a race in which Ukrainians were unusually overrepresented among the candidates of all mainstream parties, the UNP only won one seat—returning to politics, Zalozetsky-Sas was elected to the Assembly.\n\nThe party was banned on March 31, 1938 by a National Renaissance Front (FRN) dictatorship, although the former leadership continued to organize, with Zalozetsky-Sas awarded the Senate seat for his Ukrainian community. In October 1939, during the regional upheaval caused by the German invasion of Poland, Zalozetsky-Sas was invited to Bucharest. Silviu Dragomir, the Minister for National Minorities, consulted him on \"the possibility of introducing some amelioration of status to the Ukrainian minority\". By November, all Ukrainian adults had been formally enlisted into the FRN, with Zalozetsky-Sas, Serbyniuk, Gheorghe Alexievici and Ilie Gavriliu serving as its appointed representatives. \"Chas\" continued to appear in Cernăuți until June 26, 1940.\n\nTwo days later, the city and the entire north of Bukovina came under a Soviet occupation. Kohut was arrested by the Soviets and sentenced to death, but finally released and allowed to settle in Germany. In June–July 1941, the German–Romanian attack on the Soviet Union reintegrated Bukovina into Romanian territory. This move stirred a protest from the local OUN branch, which appealed to Germany to support the Ukrainian national government. Olha Huzar remained in Bukovina and engaged in nationalist activities. In 1942, she was arrested by the Ion Antonescu regime, and sentenced to a five-year imprisonment for sedition. Following the return of Soviet rule in 1944, she was released, but again arrested by the Soviets in Chernivtsi. Her subsequent fate remains unknown. Dutchak followed the Romanian retreat and settled at Corbeni–Balș, before dying in 1947. Zalozetsky-Sas settled in Graz, where he taught for a while at Charles Francis University, and died at Isperdorf in July 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "9024551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9024551", "title": "United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property", "text": "United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property\n\nThe United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property (BIRPI) was an international organization. It was set up in 1893 to administer the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works and the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. The BIRPI is the predecessor of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). \n\nBIRPI is an acronym for \"Bureaux Internationaux Réunis pour la Protection de la Propriété Intellectuelle\" (French for \"United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property\").\n\nIn 1873, a pressing issue became evident for creators, in that they feared that others would steal their ideas since there was no way to regulate such things. Many exhibitors chose not to attend the International Exhibition of Inventions in Vienna, Austria that year. In 1883, the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property came about to address this issue, and became the first step in intellectual property protection.\n\nThere were still some gaps in protection after the Paris Convention, so in 1886, there was the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works. This meant that creative works, such as music, books, and paintings, were also given protections.\n\nIn 1893, the International Bureau established by the Paris Convention and the International Bureau established by Berne Convention, both to carry out administrative tasks, merged to form the BIRPI.\n\nOriginally based in Bern, Switzerland, the BIRPI moved to Geneva in 1960. \n\nThe BIRPI changed to the WIPO (World Intellectual Property Organization). The Convention changed the name, while also making it an intergovernmental organization which is lead by member-states.\n\nThe last director of the BIRPI was Georg Bodenhausen.\n"}
{"id": "24232503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24232503", "title": "Vancouver Charter", "text": "Vancouver Charter\n\nThe Vancouver Charter is a unique provincial statute that serves to incorporate the City of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The legislation, passed in 1953, superseded the \"Vancouver Incorporation Act\" and granted the city more and different powers than other communities possess under British Columbia's \"Municipalities Act\".\n\nOn January 12, 2009 Vancouver's mayor Gregor Robertson requested an amendment to the Charter to allow the city to borrow $458 million to fund the completion of the 2010 Olympic Village in False Creek without seeking approval from taxpayers in an election-day plebiscite. Robertson said this was due to extraordinary circumstances. The amendment was passed on January 18, 2009 in an emergency session of the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia.\n"}
{"id": "55642551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55642551", "title": "Vice President of Madagascar", "text": "Vice President of Madagascar\n\nVice President of Madagascar was a political position in Madagascar during the era of Malagasy Republic.\n"}
{"id": "11042809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11042809", "title": "Volodymyr Butkevych", "text": "Volodymyr Butkevych\n\nVolodymyr G. Butkevych (Boutkevich) (born August 2, 1946 in Region of Vinnytsia) is a Ukrainian scholar and human rights lawyer. From 1996 until 2008 he was the Ukrainian judge at the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nIn 1994 he was a head of a provisional committee of the Verkhovna Rada to settle Crimean issues.\n"}
{"id": "50806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50806", "title": "White Australia policy", "text": "White Australia policy\n\nThe term White Australia policy was widely used to encapsulate a set of historical policies that aimed to exclude people of non-European origin, especially Asians (primarily Chinese) and Pacific Islanders (primarily Melanesians) from immigrating to Australia. Governments progressively dismantled such policies between 1949 and 1973.\n\nCompetition in the gold fields between British and Chinese miners, and labour-union opposition to the importation of Pacific Islanders into the sugar plantations of Queensland, reinforced demands to eliminate or minimize low-wage immigration from Asia and the Pacific Islands. From the 1850s colonial governments imposed restrictions on family members joining Chinese miners already in Australia. The colonial authorities levied a special tax on Chinese immigrants that other immigrants were exempted from. Towards the end of the 19th century labour unions pushed to stop Chinese immigrants working in the furniture and market-garden industries. Australian furniture had to be labelled \"Made with Chinese Labour\".\n\nSoon after Australia became a federation in January 1901, the federal government of Edmund Barton passed the Immigration Restriction Act of 1901, drafted by the man who would become Australia's second Prime Minister, Alfred Deakin. The passage of this bill marked the commencement of the White Australia Policy as Australian federal government policy. Subsequent acts further strengthened the policy up to the start of the Second World War.\nThese policies effectively gave British migrants preference over all others through the first four decades of the 20th century. During the Second World War, Prime Minister John Curtin reinforced the policy, saying \"This country shall remain forever the home of the descendants of those people who came here in peace in order to establish in the South Seas an outpost of the British race.\"\n\nSuccessive governments dismantled the policy in stages after the conclusion of the Second World War of 1939-1945, with the encouragement of first non-British, non-white immigration, allowing for a large multi-ethnic post-war program of immigration. The Menzies and Holt Governments (1949-1967) effectively dismantled the policies between 1949 and 1966, and the Whitlam Government passed laws to ensure that race would be totally disregarded as a component for immigration to Australia in 1973. In 1975 the Whitlam Government passed the Racial Discrimination Act, which made racially-based selection criteria unlawful. In the decades since, Australia has maintained large-scale multi-ethnic immigration. , Australia's migration program allows people from any country to apply to migrate to Australia, regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, culture, religion, or language, provided that they meet the criteria set out in law.\n\nThe discovery of gold in Australia in 1851 led to an influx of immigrants from all around the world. The colony of New South Wales had a population of just 200,000 in 1851, but the huge influx of settlers spurred by the gold rushes transformed the Australian colonies economically, politically and demographically. Over the next 20 years, 40,000 Chinese men and over 9,000 women (mostly Cantonese) immigrated to the goldfields seeking prosperity.\n\nGold brought great wealth but also new social tensions. Multi-ethnic migrants came to New South Wales in large numbers for the first time. Competition on the goldfields, particularly resentment among white miners towards the successes of Chinese miners, led to tensions between groups and eventually a series of significant protests and riots, including the Buckland Riot in 1857 and the Lambing Flat Riots between 1860 and 1861. Governor Hotham, on 16 November 1854, appointed a Royal Commission on Victorian goldfields problems and grievances. This led to restrictions being placed on Chinese immigration and residency taxes levied from Chinese residents in Victoria from 1855 with New South Wales following suit in 1861. These restrictions remained in force until the early 1870s.\n\nMelbourne Trades Hall was opened in 1859 with Trades and Labour Councils and Trades Halls opening in all cities and most regional towns in the following forty years. During the 1880s Trade unions developed among shearers, miners, and stevedores (wharf workers), but soon spread to cover almost all blue-collar jobs. Shortages of labour led to high wages for a prosperous skilled working class, whose unions demanded and got an eight-hour day and other benefits unheard of in Europe.\n\nAustralia gained a reputation as \"the working man's paradise.\" Some employers tried to undercut the unions by importing Chinese labour. This produced a reaction which led to all the colonies restricting Chinese and other Asian immigration. This was the foundation of the White Australia Policy. The \"Australian compact\", based around centralised industrial arbitration, a degree of government assistance particularly for primary industries, and White Australia, was to continue for many years before gradually dissolving in the second half of the 20th century.\nThe growth of the sugar industry in Queensland in the 1870s led to searching for labourers prepared to work in a tropical environment. During this time, thousands of \"Kanakas\" (Pacific Islanders) were brought into Australia as indentured workers. This and related practices of bringing in non-white labour to be cheaply employed was commonly termed \"blackbirding\" and refers to the recruitment of people through trickery and kidnappings to work on plantations, particularly the sugar cane plantations of Queensland (Australia) and Fiji. In the 1870s and 1880s, the trade union movement began a series of protests against foreign labour. Their arguments were that Asians and Chinese took jobs away from white men, worked for \"substandard\" wages, lowered working conditions and refused unionisation.\n\nObjections to these arguments came largely from wealthy land owners in rural areas. It was argued that without Asiatics to work in the tropical areas of the Northern Territory and Queensland, the area would have to be abandoned. Despite these objections to restricting immigration, between 1875 and 1888 all Australian colonies enacted legislation which excluded all further Chinese immigration. Asian immigrants already residing in the Australian colonies were not expelled and retained the same rights as their Anglo and Southern compatriots.\n\nAgreements were made to further increase these restrictions in 1895 following an Inter-colonial Premier's Conference where all colonies agreed to extend entry restrictions to all non-white races. However, in attempting to enact this legislation, the Governors of New South Wales, South Australia and Tasmania reserved the bills, due to a treaty with Japan, and they did not become law. Instead, the Natal Act of 1897 was introduced, restricting \"undesirable persons\" rather than any specific race.\n\nThe British government in London was not pleased with legislation that discriminated against certain subjects of its Empire, but decided not to disallow the laws that were passed. Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain explained in 1897:We quite sympathise with the determination...of these colonies...that there should not be an influx of people alien in civilisation, alien in religion, alien in customs, whose influx, moreover, would seriously interfere with the legitimate rights of the existing labouring population.\n\nIn writing about the preoccupations of the Australian population in early Federation Australia before the First World War in \"ANZAC to Amiens\", the official historian of the war, Charles Bean, considered the White Australia policy and defined it as follows:\"White Australia Policy\" – a vehement effort to maintain a high Western standard of economy, society and culture (necessitating at that stage, however it might be camouflaged, the rigid exclusion of Oriental peoples).\n\nImmigration was a prominent topic in the lead up to Australian Federation. At the third Session of the Australasian Federation Convention of 1898, Western Australian premier and future federal cabinet member John Forrest summarised the prevailing feeling:\n\nThe Barton Government which came to power following the first elections to the Commonwealth parliament in 1901 was formed by the Protectionist Party with the support of the Australian Labor Party. The support of the Labor Party was contingent upon restricting non-white immigration, reflecting the attitudes of the Australian Workers Union and other labour organisations at the time, upon whose support the Labor Party was founded.\n\nThe first Parliament of Australia quickly moved to restrict immigration to maintain Australia's British character, and the Pacific Island Labourers Bill and the Immigration Restriction Bill were passed shortly before parliament rose for its first Christmas recess. The Colonial Secretary in Britain had however made it clear that a race-based immigration policy would run \"contrary to the general conceptions of equality which have ever been the guiding principle of British rule throughout the Empire\". The Barton Government therefore conceived of the \"language dictation test\", which would allow the government, at the discretion of the minister, to block unwanted migrants by forcing them to sit a test in \"any European language\". Race had already been established as a premise for exclusion among the colonial parliaments, so the main question for debate was who exactly the new Commonwealth ought to exclude, with the Labor Party rejecting Britain's calls to placate the populations of its non-white colonies and allow \"aboriginal natives of Asia, Africa, or the islands thereof\". There was opposition from Queensland and its sugar industry to the proposals of the Pacific Islanders Bill to exclude \"Kanaka\" laborers, however Barton argued that the practice was \"veiled slavery\" that could lead to a \"negro problem\" similar to that in the United States, and the Bill was passed.\n\nThe new Federal Parliament, as one of its first pieces of legislation, passed the Immigration Restriction Act 1901 to \"place certain restrictions on immigration and... for the removal... of prohibited immigrants\". The Act drew on similar legislation in South Africa. Edmund Barton, the prime minister, argued in support of the Bill with the following statement: \"The doctrine of the equality of man was never intended to apply to the equality of the Englishman and the Chinaman.\"\n\nThe Attorney General tasked with drafting the legislation was Alfred Deakin. Deakin supported Barton's position over that of the Labor Party in drafting the Bill (the ALP wanted more direct methods of exclusion than the dictation test) and redacted the more vicious racism proposed for the text in his Second Reading of the Bill. In seeking to justify the policy, Deakin said he believed that the Japanese and Chinese might be a threat to the newly formed federation and it was this belief that led to legislation to ensure they would be kept out:It is not the bad qualities, but the good qualities of these alien races that make them so dangerous to us. It is their inexhaustible energy, their power of applying themselves to new tasks, their endurance and low standard of living that make them such competitors.Early drafts of the Act explicitly banned non-Europeans from migrating to Australia but objections from the British government, which feared that such a measure would offend British subjects in India and Britain's allies in Japan, caused the Barton government to remove this wording. Instead, a \"dictation test\" was introduced as a device for excluding unwanted immigrants. Immigration officials were given the power to exclude any person who failed to pass a 50-word dictation test. At first this was to be in any European language, but was later changed to include \"any\" language. The tests were written in such a way to make them nearly impossible to pass. The first of these tests was written by Federal MP Stewart Parnaby as an example for officers to follow when setting future tests. The \"Stewart\" test was unofficially standardised as the English version of the test, due to its extremely high rates of failure resulting from a very sophisticated use of language. While specifically asked by Barton to carry out this task, Parnaby allegedly shared similar views to Donald Cameron despite never publicly admitting so .\n\nThe legislation found strong support in the new Australian Parliament, with arguments ranging from economic protection to outright racism. The Labor Party wanted to protect \"white\" jobs and pushed for more explicit restrictions. A few politicians spoke of the need to avoid hysterical treatment of the question. Member of Parliament Bruce Smith said he had \"no desire to see low-class Indians, Chinamen or Japanese...swarming into this country... But there is obligation...not (to) unnecessarily offend the educated classes of those nations\" Donald Cameron, a Free Trade Party member from Tasmania, expressed a rare note of dissention:\n\nOutside parliament, Australia's first Catholic cardinal, Patrick Francis Moran was politically active and denounced anti-Chinese legislation as \"unchristian\". The popular press mocked the cardinal's position and the small European population of Australia generally supported the legislation and remained fearful of being overwhelmed by an influx of non-British migrants from the vastly different cultures of the highly populated empires to Australia's north.\n\nIn 1901 the Australian parliament passed the Pacific Island Labourers Act 1901. The result of this legislation was that 7,500 Pacific Islanders (called \"Kanakas\") working mostly on plantations in Queensland were deported, and entry into Australia by Pacific Islanders was prohibited after 1904.\n\nAt the 1919 Paris Peace Conference following the First World War, Japan sought to include a racial equality clause in the Covenant of the League of Nations. Japanese policy reflected their desire to remove or to ease the immigration restrictions against Japanese (especially in the United States and Canada), which Japan regarded as a humiliation and affront to its prestige.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Billy Hughes was already concerned by the prospect of Japanese expansion in the Pacific. Australia, Japan and New Zealand had seized the German colonial empire's territories in the Pacific in the early stages of the war and Hughes was concerned to retain German New Guinea as vital to the defence of Australia. The Treaty ultimately granted Australia a League of Nations Mandate over German New Guinea and Japan to the South Pacific Mandate immediately to its north – thus bringing Australian and Japanese territory to a shared border – a situation altered only by Japan's Second World War invasion of New Guinea.\n\nHughes vehemently opposed Japan's racial equality proposition. Hughes recognised that such a clause would be a threat to White Australia and made it clear to British Prime Minister David Lloyd George that he would leave the conference if the clause was adopted. When the proposal failed, Hughes reported in the Australian parliament:The White Australia is yours. You may do with it what you please, but at any rate, the soldiers have achieved the victory and my colleagues and I have brought that great principle back to you from the conference, as safe as it was on the day when it was first adopted.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Alfred Deakin campaigned vehemently for the White Australia policy and made it a key issue in his 1903 Election speech he proclaimed that the policy was not only for the preservation of the 'complexion' of Australia but it was for the establishment of 'social justice'.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Stanley Bruce was a supporter of the White Australia policy and made it an issue in his campaign for the 1925 Australian Federal election.It is necessary that we should determine what are the ideals towards which every Australian would desire to strive. I think those ideals might well be stated as being to secure our national safety, and to ensure the maintenance of our White Australia Policy to continue as an integral portion of the British Empire. We intend to keep this country white and not allow its people to be faced with the problems that at present are practically insoluble in many parts of the world.\n\nAustralian anxiety at the prospect of Japanese expansionism and war in the Pacific continued through the 1930s. Billy Hughes, by then a minister in the United Australia Party's Lyons Government, made a notable contribution to Australia's attitude towards immigration in a 1935 speech in which he argued that \"Australia must... populate or perish\". However Hughes was forced to resign in 1935 after his book \"Australia and the War Today\" exposed a lack of preparation in Australia for what Hughes correctly supposed to be a coming war.\n\nBetween the Great Depression starting in 1929 and the end of the Second World War in 1945, global conditions kept immigration to very low levels. At the start of the war, Prime Minister John Curtin (ALP) reinforced the message of the White Australia policy by saying: \"This country shall remain forever the home of the descendants of those people who came here in peace in order to establish in the South Seas an outpost of the British race.\"\n\nFollowing the 1942 Fall of Singapore, Australians feared invasion by Imperial Japan. Australian cities were bombed by the Japanese Airforce and Navy and Axis Naval Forces menaced Australian shipping, while the Royal Navy remained pre-occupied with the battles of the Atlantic and Mediterranean in the face of Nazi aggression in Europe. A Japanese invasion fleet headed for the Australian Territory of New Guinea was only halted by the intervention of the United States Navy in the Battle of the Coral Sea. Australia received thousands of refugees from territories falling to advancing Japanese forces – notably thousands of Dutch who fled the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). Australian Aborigines, Torres Strait Islanders, Papua New Guineans and Timorese served in the frontline of the defence of Australia, bringing Australia's racially discriminatory immigration and political rights policies into focus and wartime service gave many Indigenous Australians confidence in demanding their rights upon return to civilian life.\n\nDuring the war, talk arose about the possibility of abolishing the policy. Spokesman for the Labor Party demanded that it be continued:The policy of White Australia is now, perhaps, the most outstanding political characteristic of this country, and it has been accepted not only by those closely associated with it, but also by those who watched and studied \"this interesting experiment\" from afar. Only those who favor the exploitation of a servile coloured race for greed of gain, and a few professional economists and benighted theologians, are now heard in serious criticism of a White Australia; but...they are encouraged by the ill-timed and inappropriate pronouncements of what are, after all, irresponsible officials.\n\nFollowing the trauma of Second World War, Australia's vulnerability during the Pacific War and its relatively small population compared to other nations led to policies summarised by the slogan, \"populate or perish\". According to author Lachlan Strahan, this was an ethnocentric slogan that in effect was an admonition to fill Australia with Europeans or else risk having it overrun by Asians. Immigration Minister Arthur Calwell stated in 1947 to critics of the government's mass immigration programme: \"We have 25 years at most to populate this country before the yellow races are down on us.\"\n\nDuring the war, many non-white refugees, including Malays, Indonesians and Filipinos, arrived in Australia, but Calwell controversially sought to have them all deported. The Chifley Government introduced the \"Aliens Deportation Act 1948\", which had its weaknesses exposed by a High Court case, and then passed the \"War-time Refugees Removal Act 1949\" which gave the immigration minister sweeping powers of deportation. In 1948, Iranian Bahá'ís seeking to immigrate to Australia were classified as \"Asiatic\" by the policy and were denied entry. In 1949, Calwell's successor Harold Holt allowed the remaining 800 non-white refugees to apply for residency, and also allowed Japanese \"war brides\" to settle in Australia. In the meantime, encouraging immigration from Europe, Australia admitted large numbers of immigrants from mostly Italy, Greece and Yugoslavia, as well as its traditional source of the British Isles. Ambitious post-war development projects like the Snowy Mountains Scheme (1949–1972) required a large labour force that could only be sourced by diversifying Australia's migrant intake.\n\nAustralian policy began to shift towards significantly increasing immigration. Legislative changes over the next few decades continuously opened up immigration in Australia.\n\nLabor Party Chifley Government:\n\n\nLiberal-Country Party Menzies Government (1949–1966):\n\n\nThis was despite comments Menzies made in a discussion with radio 2UE's Stewart Lamb in 1955, where he appeared to be a defender of the White Australia Policy. \"I don't want to see reproduced in Australia the kind of problem they have in South Africa or in America or increasingly in Great Britain. I think it's been a very good policy and it's been of great value to us and most of the criticism of it that I've ever heard doesn't come from these oriental countries it comes from wandering Australians. (Lamb) \"For these years of course in the past Sir Robert you have been described as a racist.\"\n(Menzies) \"Have I?\"\n\n(Lamb) \"I have read this, yes.\"\n\n(Menzies) \"Well if I were not described as a racist I'd be the only public man who hasn't been.\"\nIn 1963, a paper \"Immigration: Control or Colour Bar?\" was published by a group of students and academics at Melbourne University. It proposed eliminating the White Australia policy, and was influential towards this end.\n\nIn 1966, the Holt Liberal Government effectively dismantled the White Australia policy and increased access to non-European migrants, including refugees fleeing the Vietnam War. After a review of immigration policy in March 1966, Immigration Minister Hubert Opperman announced applications for migration would be accepted from well-qualified people \"on the basis of their suitability as settlers, their ability to integrate readily and their possession of qualifications positively useful to Australia\". At the same time, Harold Holt's government decided to allow foreign non-whites to become permanent residents and citizens after five years (the same as for Europeans), and also removed discriminatory provisions in family reunification policies.\n\nAs a result, annual non-European settler arrivals rose from 746 in 1966 to 2,696 in 1971, while annual part-European settler arrivals rose from 1,498 to 6,054.\n\nLeader of the Labor Party from 1960-1967 Arthur Calwell supported the White European Australia policy. This is reflected by Calwell's comments in his 1972 memoirs, \"Be Just and Fear Not\", in which he made it clear that he maintained his view that non-European people should not be allowed to settle in Australia. He wrote:\nI am proud of my white skin, just as a Chinese is proud of his yellow skin, a Japanese of his brown skin, and the Indians of their various hues from black to coffee-coloured. Anybody who is not proud of his race is not a man at all. And any man who tries to stigmatize the Australian community as racist because they want to preserve this country for the white race is doing our nation great harm... I reject, in conscience, the idea that Australia should or ever can become a multi-racial society and survive.\n\nThe legal end of the White Australia policy is usually placed in the year 1973, when the Whitlam Labor government implemented a series of amendments preventing the enforcement of racial aspects of the immigration law. These amendments:\n\nThe 1975 Racial Discrimination Act made the use of racial criteria for any official purpose illegal.\n\nIt was not until the Fraser Liberal government's review of immigration law in 1978 that all selection of prospective migrants based on country of origin was entirely removed from official policy.\n\nIn 1981, the Minister for Immigration announced a Special Humanitarian Assistance Programme (SHP) for Iranians to seek refuge in Australia and by 1988 some 2500 Bahá'ís and many more others had arrived in Australia through either SHP or Refugee Programmes. The last selective immigration policy, offering relocation assistance to British nationals, was finally removed in 1982.\n\nAustralia's contemporary immigration programme has two components: a programme for skilled and family migrants and a humanitarian programme for refugees and asylum seekers. By 2010, the post-war immigration programme had received more than 6.5 million migrants from every continent. The population tripled in the six decades to around 21 million in 2010, comprising people originating from 200 countries.\n\nWhile non-European and non-Christian immigration has increased substantially since the dismantling of the White Australia policy, Australian society inevitably remains rooted in the demographic legacy of the 72 years of White Australia, during which time the country underwent its most substantial population growth.\n\nThe policy had the obvious demographic effect of creating a population of European, and largely Anglo-Celtic, descent. In refusing immigration by people of other racial and ethnic descents, it also effectively limited the immigration of practitioners of non-Christian faiths. Consequently, the White Australia policy ensured that Christianity remained the religion of the overwhelming majority of Australians. \n\nThe 2001 Australian census results indicate that many Australians claim some European heritage: English 37%, Irish 11%, Italian 5%, German 4.3%, Scottish 3%, Greek 2%, Former Yugoslav 1.8%, Dutch 1.5%, Polish 0.9%. Australians of some non-European origin form a significant but still relatively small part of the population: Chinese 3.2%, Indian 0.9%, Lebanese 0.9%, Vietnamese 0.9%. About 2.2% identified themselves as Indigenous Australians. 39% of the population gave their ancestry as \"Australian\". The Australian census does not classify people according to race, only ethnic ancestry. (Note that subjects were permitted to select more than one answer for this census question.)\n\n15% of the population now speaks a language other than English at home. The most commonly spoken languages are Italian, Greek, Cantonese and Arabic.\n\nThe story of Australia since the Second World War – and particularly since the final relegation of the white Australia policy – has been one of ever-increasing ethnic and cultural diversity. Successive governments have sustained a large programmes of multiethnic immigration from all continents.\n\nDiscrimination on the basis of race or ethnicity was legally sanctioned until 1975. Australia's new official policy on racial diversity is: \"to build on our success as a culturally diverse, accepting and open society, united through a shared future\". The White Australia policy continues to be mentioned in modern contexts, although it is generally only mentioned by politicians when denouncing their opposition. As Leader of the Opposition, John Howard argued for restricting Asian immigration in 1988 as part of his One Australia policy; in August 1988, he said: I do believe that if it is – in the eyes of some in the community – that it's too great, it would be in our immediate-term interest and supporting of social cohesion if it [Asian immigration] were slowed down a little, so the capacity of the community to absorb it was greater.Howard later retracted and apologised for the remarks, and was returned to the leadership of the Liberal Party in 1995. The Howard Government (1996–2007) in turn ran a large programme of non-discriminatory immigration and, according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Asian countries became an increasingly important source of immigration over the decade from 1996 to 2006, with the proportion of migrants from Southern and Central Asian countries doubling from 7% to 14%. The proportion of immigrants from Sub-Saharan Africa also increased. By 2005–06, China and India were the third and fourth largest sources of all migration (after New Zealand and the United Kingdom). In 2005–06, there were 180,000 permanent additions of migrants to Australia (72% more than the number in 1996–97). This figure included around 17,000 through the humanitarian programme, of whom Iraqis and Sudanese accounted for the largest portions. China became Australia's biggest source of migrants, for the first time in 2009, surpassing New Zealand and Britain.\n\nHistorian Geoffrey Blainey achieved mainstream recognition for the anti-multiculturalist cause when he wrote that multiculturalism threatened to transform Australia into a \"cluster of tribes\". In his 1984 book \"All for Australia\", Blainey criticised multiculturalism for tending to \"emphasise the rights of ethnic minorities at the expense of the majority of Australians\" and also for tending to be \"anti-British\", even though \"people from the United Kingdom and Ireland form the dominant class of pre-war immigrants and the largest single group of post-war immigrants.\"\n\nAccording to Blainey, such a policy, with its \"emphasis on what is different and on the rights of the new minority rather than the old majority,\" was unnecessarily creating division and threatened national cohesion. He argued that \"the evidence is clear that many multicultural societies have failed and that the human cost of the failure has been high\" and warned that \"we should think very carefully about the perils of converting Australia into a giant multicultural laboratory for the assumed benefit of the peoples of the world.\"\n\nIn one of his numerous criticisms of multiculturalism, Blainey wrote:\n\nFor the millions of Australians who have no other nation to fall back upon, multiculturalism is almost an insult. It is divisive. It threatens social cohesion. It could, in the long-term, also endanger Australia's military security because it sets up enclaves which in a crisis could appeal to their own homelands for help.\n\nBlainey remained a persistent critic of multiculturalism into the 1990s, denouncing multiculturalism as \"morally, intellectually and economically ... a sham\".\n\nDespite the overall success and generally bipartisan support for Australia's multi-ethnic immigration programme, there remain voices of opposition to immigration within the Australian electorate. At its peak, Pauline Hanson's One Nation Party received 9% of the national vote at the 1998 Federal Election.\n\nHanson was widely accused of trying to take Australia back to the days of the White Australia policy, particularly through reference to Arthur Calwell, one of the policy's strongest supporters. In her maiden address to the Australian Parliament following the 1996 election, Hanson said:I and most Australians want our immigration policy radically reviewed and that of multiculturalism abolished. I believe we are in danger of being swamped by Asians. Between 1984 and 1995, 40 per cent of all migrants coming into this country were of Asian origin. They have their own culture and religion, form ghettos and do not assimilate.Hanson's remarks generated wide interest in the media both nationally and internationally, but she herself did not retain her seat in Parliament at the 1998 election or subsequent 2001 and 2004 federal elections. Hanson also failed to win election in the 2003 and 2011 New South Wales state elections. In May 2007, Hanson, with her new Pauline's United Australia Party, continued her call for a freeze on immigration, arguing that African migrants carried disease into Australia.\nHanson returned to politics in 2014 and ran in the Queensland election.\n\nTopics related to racism and immigration in Australia are still regularly connected by the media to the White Australia policy. Some examples of issues and events where this connection has been made include:\nreconciliation with Indigenous Australians; mandatory detention and the \"Pacific Solution\"; the 2005 Cronulla riots, and the 2009 attacks on Indians in Australia. Former opposition Labor party leader Mark Latham, in his book \"The Latham Diaries\", described the ANZUS alliance as a legacy of the White Australia policy.\n\nIn 2007, the Howard Government proposed an Australian Citizenship Test intended \"to get that balance between diversity and integration correct in future, particularly as we now draw people from so many different countries and so many different cultures\". The draft proposal contained a pamphlet introducing Australian history, Culture and Democracy. Migrants were to be required to correctly answer at least 12 out of 20 questions on such topics in a citizenship quiz. Migrants would also be required to demonstrate an adequate level of understanding of the English language. The Rudd Government reviewed and then implemented the proposal in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820716", "title": "Whiteboys", "text": "Whiteboys\n\nThe Whiteboys () were a secret Irish agrarian organisation in 18th-century Ireland which used violent tactics to defend tenant farmer land rights for subsistence farming. Their name derives from the white smocks the members wore in their nightly raids. As they levelled the fences at night, they were usually referred to at the time as \"Levellers\" by the authorities, and by themselves as \"Queen Sive Oultagh's children\" (\"Sive\" or \"Sieve Oultagh\" being anglicsed from the Irish \"Sadhbh Amhaltach\", or Ghostly Sally), \"fairies\", or as followers of \"Johanna Meskill\" or \"Sheila Meskill\", all symbolic figures supposed to lead the movement. They sought to address rack-rents, tithe collection, excessive priests' dues, evictions and other oppressive acts. As a result they targeted landlords and tithe collectors. Over time, \"Whiteboyism\" became a general term for rural violence connected to secret societies. Because of this generalisation, the historical record for the Whiteboys as a specific organisation is unclear. There were three major outbreaks of Whiteboyism: 1761–64; 1770–76; and 1784–86.\n\nBetween 1735 and 1760 there was an increase in land used for grazing and beef cattle, in part because pasture land was exempt from tithes. The landlords, having let their lands far above their value, on condition of allowing the tenants the use of certain commons, now enclosed the commons, but did not lessen the rent. As more landlords and farmers switched to raising cattle, labourers and small tenant farmers were forced off the land. The Whiteboys developed as a secret oath-bound society among the peasantry. Whiteboy disturbances had occurred prior to 1761 but were largely restricted to isolated areas and local grievances, so that the response of local authorities had been limited, either through passive sympathy or, more likely, because of the exposed nature of their position in the largely Roman Catholic countryside.\n\nTheir operations were chiefly in the counties of Waterford, Cork, Limerick, and Tipperary. This combination was not political: it was not directed against the government, but against the local landlords. Members of different religious affiliations took part.\n\nThe first major outbreak occurred in County Limerick in November 1761 and quickly spread to counties Tipperary, Cork, and Waterford. A great deal of organisation and planning seems to have been put into the outbreak, including the holding of regular assemblies. Initial activities were limited to specific grievances and the tactics used non-violent, such as the levelling of ditches that closed off common grazing land, although cattle hamstringing was often practised as the demand for beef had prompted large landowners to initiate the process of enclosure. As their numbers increased, the scope of Whiteboy activities began to widen, and proclamations were clandestinely posted under such names as \"Captain Moonlight\", stipulating demands such as that rent not be paid, that land with expired leases not be rented until it had lain fallow for three years, and that no one pay or collect tithes demanded by the Anglican Church. Threatening letters were also sent to debt collectors, landlords, and occupants of land gained from eviction, demanding that they give up their farms.\n\nAs well as the digging up of ley lands and orchards, they also searched houses for guns, and demanded money in order to purchase guns and defray the expenses of Whiteboys standing trial.\n\nMarch 1762 saw a further escalation of Whiteboy activities, with marches in military array preceded by the music of bagpipes or the sounding of horns. At Cappoquin they fired guns and marched by the military barracks playing the Jacobite tune \"The lad with the white cockade\". These processions were often preceded by notices saying that Queen Sive and her children would make a procession through part of her domain and demanded that the townspeople illuminate their houses and provide their horses, ready saddled, for their use. More militant activities often followed such processions with unlit houses in Lismore attacked, prisoners released in an attack on Tallow jail and similar shows of strength in Youghal.\n\nThe events of March 1761, however, prompted a more determined response, and a considerable military force under the Charles, Marquess of Drogheda was sent to Munster to crush the Whiteboys.\n\nOn 2 April 1761 a force of 50 militia men and 40 soldiers set out for Tallow, \"\"where they took (mostly in their beds) eleven Levellers, against whom Information on Oath was given\".\" Other raids took 17 Whiteboys west of Bruff, in County Limerick and by mid April at least 150 suspected Whiteboys had been arrested. Clogheen in County Tipperary bore the initial brunt of this assault as the local parish priest, Fr. Nicholas Sheehy, had earlier spoken out against tithes and collected funds for the defence of parishioners charged with rioting. An unknown numbers of \"insurgents\" were reported killed in the \"pacification exercise\" and Fr. Sheehy was unsuccessfully indicted for sedition several times before eventually being found guilty of a charge of accessory to murder, and hanged, drawn and quartered in Clonmel in March 1766.\n\nIn the cities, suspected Whiteboy sympathisers were arrested and in Cork, citizens formed an association of about 2,000 strong which offered rewards of £300 for capture of the chief Whiteboy and £50 for the first five sub-chiefs arrested and often accompanied the military on their rampages. The leading Catholics in Cork also offered similar rewards of £200 and £40 respectively.\n\nHowever, Lord Halifax was soon expressing concern that the repression was going too far: \"so many People are directly or indirectly concerned in these illegal Practices and so many have been seized on Information or Suspicion, that in several Places, the Majority of the Inhabitants have been struck with the utmost Consternation, and have fled to the Mountains, insomuch that at this Season, from the almost general Flight of the labouring Hands, a Famine is, not without Reason, apprehended.\". Similarly, the \"Dublin Journal\" reported at the same time that the south east part of Tipperary \"is almost waste, and the Houses of many locked up, or inhabited by Women and old Men only; such has been the Terror the Approach of the Light Dragoons has thrown them into.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1798 rebellion agrarian agitation swept Munster.\n\nIn 1822 a group of about fifty attacked the house of a Mr. Bolster near Athlacca, where they damaged the house, broke the windows, and took his musket.\n\nActs passed by the Parliament of Ireland (to 1800) and Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (from 1801) to empower the authorities to combat Whiteboyism were commonly called \"Whiteboy Acts\".\n\nIn Thomas Flanagan's novel The Year of the French, the \"Whiteboys of Killala\" are referenced many times. Many of the Whiteboys are central characters within the story. Led by Malachi Duggan, the Whiteboys attempt to reverse their oppressed state through guerrilla acts in County Mayo. Following the landing of a French force under Humbert in 1798, some local Whiteboys join the rebellion against the British and fought alongside United Irishmen and French soldiers.\n\n\n\n"}
