{"id": "11814468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11814468", "title": "1968 Red Square demonstration", "text": "1968 Red Square demonstration\n\nThe 1968 Red Square demonstration () took place on 25 August 1968 at Red Square, Moscow, Soviet Union, to protest the invasion of Czechoslovakia by the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact allies, that occurred during the night of 20–21 August 1968, crushing the Prague Spring, a set of de-centralization reforms promoted by Alexander Dubček.\n\nMany people over the world had protested against the suppression of the Prague spring with troops of Soviet Union and other countries of the Warsaw Pact. One such act of protest took place in Moscow, at the Red Square. The protest was held at the Lobnoye Mesto, to avoid any violation of public order that could have occurred during the demonstration. The protesters were sitting to avoid any inconvenience to ordinary citizens which might be caused by them standing, although this appears to have had little effect.\n\nThe protest began at noon as eight protesters (Larisa Bogoraz, Konstantin Babitsky, Vadim Delaunay, Vladimir Dremliuga, Pavel Litvinov, Natalya Gorbanevskaya, Viktor Fainberg, and Tatiana Baeva) sat at the Lobnoye Mesto and held a small Czechoslovak flag and banners with various slogans, including:\n\nWithin a few minutes, seven protesters were assaulted, brutally beaten and loaded into cars by KGB operatives. The Czechoslovak flag was broken, and the banners were confiscated. Since Natalya Gorbanevskaya had recently given birth, she was not made to stand trial. The other protesters convinced 21-year-old Tatiana Baeva to declare that she had been at the scene by accident, and she was released soon after.\n\nThe KGB failed to find out which protester was holding which banner; therefore, all the banners were attributed to each protester, except for Tatiana Baeva, who was released. The banners were branded by the KGB as \"anti-Soviet\".\n\nDuring the investigation and trial, the defence revealed several inconsistencies in the accusations.\nOne of the eyewitnesses declared that he saw protesters leaving the GUM, a large store in the vicinity, even though this store is closed on Sundays. Additionally, all eyewitnesses happened to be from the same military division, even though they all claimed that they ended up on Red Square accidentally. However, these inconsistencies were not taken into account during the trial.\n\nNone of the demonstrators pleaded guilty. Vadim Delaunay and Vladimir Dremlyuga were sentenced to three years. Victor Fainberg had his teeth knocked out during the arrest; instead of appearing in court, he was sent to a psychiatric prison. Larisa Bogoraz was sentenced to four years of exile to a remote Siberian settlement in the Irkutsk region. Konstantin Babitsky was sentenced to three years of exile. Pavel Litvinov was sentenced to five years of exile. Natalya Gorbanevskaya was released the same day but was later sent to a psychiatric prison.\n\nLawyers for the defence, all members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union who were appointed and paid for by the state, had shown that there was no criminal intent in the demonstration held by the protesters, but despite this, the protesters received harsh sentences of up to several years in prison.\n\nIt was claimed by Yuliy Kim that the sentences had already been written down before the trial. Yuliy Kim wrote the song \"Ilyich\", which mentions Yuri Andropov's and Leonid Brezhnev's anger regarding the demonstration, and names three of the participants: Pavel Litvinov, Natalya Gorbanevskaya and Larisa Bogoraz.\n\nPublic recognition of the protesters had to wait 40 years. During the conflict in South Ossetia, August 2008, the former president of the Czech Republic, Václav Havel, expressed his sympathies for the protesters of 1968. Czech Premier Mirek Topolánek recognized the heroism of the protesters with awards.\nYet, no similar recognition is reported from the side of the Russian government. Instead, 24 August 2008, the similar demonstration with the slogan For your freedom and ours happened at the same place.\n\nOn 25 August 2013, the 45th anniversary of the demonstration, Gorbanevskaya and several of her friends recreated the original protest, again featuring the \"For your freedom and ours\" banner. Ten participants (among them Delaunay's son Sergey) were arrested almost immediately, brutally beaten and taken to a police station. They were soon arraigned and released pending court appearance on charges of failing to secure prior permission for a political rally, a misdemeanor under current Russian law. In 2018 three participants were arrested.\n\nThe 1968 demonstration is recounted in the 2005 documentary \"They Chose Freedom\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4670717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4670717", "title": "2005–06 Thai political crisis", "text": "2005–06 Thai political crisis\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, a series of events occurred in Thailand as a result of an unrest with Thaksin Shinawatra that was supported by Sondhi Limthongkul and his coalitions. It led a military coup that concluded in the overthrow of the Thai Rak Thai government in September 2006, the flight of Thaksin after the court verdict, and the establishment of the junta government led by Surayud Chulanont, a favourite of privy councillor and senior statesman Prem Tinsulanonda.\n\nThe crisis and resulting coup and post-coup military government called into question issues of media freedom, the role of the constitution in breaking a political deadlock, and the existence of political stability in Thailand. It also reflected long-term and significant disparity between urban and rural political orientation and abuses of power and conflict of interest of a democratically elected leader that have long plagued the Thai political landscape. These issues contributed to the crisis and culminated in the coup d'état of September 2006.\n\nSondhi Limthongkul, a media mogul who had previously been a staunch supporter of Thaksin, played a major, leading role in the crisis through the establishment of the anti-Thaksin People's Alliance for Democracy. The PAD aligned itself with several state-enterprise unions (who were against Thaksin's privatisation plans for state enterprises), human right and civil politics activists who charged Thaksin rule as \"undemocratic\", monopoly of power, human right abuse, suppressing the freedom of press and extrajudicial killings of drug traffickers, a main concern among several human right groups.\n\nThe crucial anti-Thaksin coalitions were also supporters of the controversial monk Luang Ta Maha Bua (who opposed the Thaksin government's appointment of Somdet Phra Buddhacharya as acting Supreme Patriarch in place of the critically ill Somdet Phra Yanasangworn), allegedly the political intervention of the monastic affairs.\n\nSignificant supporters of PAD were also prominent socialists, scholars and \"royalists\" (who claimed that Thaksin frequently insulted King Bhumibol Adulyadej), various factions in the Thai military (who claimed that Thaksin promoted only those who were loyal to him), and various civil groups (who criticised Thaksin for not paying taxes during the sale of Shin Corporation to Temasek Holdings, although the capital gains from the transaction were legally exempt from taxation. The movement then was seen highly controversial and complicated.\n\nIn February 2006, Thaksin dissolved Parliament and called a general legislative election for the House of Representatives in April 2006. Most major opposition parties boycotted the election, led by Democrat Party. After the elections, King Bhumibol requested that the courts resolve the crisis. Soon afterwards, the Constitutional Court invalidated the elections based on the positioning of voting booths, and the Criminal Court later jailed members of the Election Commission that did not obey the Court's request to resign. New elections were scheduled for 15 October 2006. This time, the opposition announced it was contesting the election, and numerous newly founded parties actively campaigned. The election was cancelled after a military coup on 19 September 2006, while Thaksin was in New York to attend a United Nations summit. Thaksin has since been in exile. The PAD dissolved itself 2 days after the coup after announcing that their goal had been accomplished, but since then (February 2008) has vowed to resume protests should pro-Thaksin practices and policies of the Samak government become evident.\n\nApparently, critics on Thaksin Shinawatra took place even before the Sondhi's movement. Severe critics occurred around the Thaksin case of hidden assets, filed to the Constitutional Court. According to the verdict, Thaksin could escape the proof of guilty with 8-7 votes of the judges.\n\nHuman right abuses were also the cause of critics. Thaksin's war of drug became controversial when thousands of killings and murder cases explained by the authority as \"extrajudicial\" and could-be a \"revenge\" among the drug traffickers.\n\nBesides the removal and a threat on Sondhi's program, freedom of press became the focus. Sutthichai Yoon, another major critic, was filed a case against. In early 2006, the supporters of Thaksin Shinawatra, claimed supported by the premier himself and his close figures, blockaded the entry of the Nation Group building, threatening to \"burn\" the building. Possibly the movement rallied by Sondhi, then became the focus of several anti-Thaksin groups.\n\nPrime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was embroiled in several controversies after assuming power following the 2001 election. These controversies included alleged conflicts of interest due to his family's holdings in Shin Corporation and a violent crackdown on drug dealers. However, none of these controversies caused significant damage to his popularity, and he became the first elected prime minister to serve a full term, subsequently winning re-election in January 2005.\n\nThe origins of the crisis may be traced to the controversy surrounding Viroj Nualkhair, CEO of state-owned Krung Thai Bank (KTB). Viroj faced pressure to leave his position after KTB reported higher than expected levels of non-performing loans in 2004. Viroj was vigorously defended by Sondhi Limthongkul, a media tycoon who had previously been a staunch Thaksin supporter. As KTB CEO, Viroj had forgiven Sondhi's personal debts by 1.6 billion baht and arranged for further rounds of debt forgiveness. When Viroj was forced out of his position, Sondhi's public criticism of Thaksin started to increase.\n\nThe Sondhi-Thaksin conflict escalated when Sondhi's Channel 11/1 was temporarily ordered to stop broadcasting due to a contract dispute between cable operator UBC and the government regulator.\n\nIn September 2005, Sondhi reportedly made repeated disrespectful on-air references to King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Among these references was a claim that the government's 2004 appointment of Somdet Phra Buddhacharya as acting Supreme Patriarch in place of the critically ill Somdet Phra Yanasangworn contravened the prerogative of the King. According to Thai ecclesiastic law, the Supreme Patriarch is nominated by the Sangha Supreme Council and formally appointed by the King. Somdet Phra Phuthacharn's appointment was vehemently opposed by Luang Ta Maha Bua, an influential monk with close affiliations to Sondhi (see Luang Ta Maha Bua's opposition to Thaksin Shinawatra). After discussions with King's principal private secretary, Arsa Sarasin, MCOT executive, removed the program.\n\nThe Administrative and Constitutional Courts (the first in Thai history) were set up to be based on the French and Italian judicial system, where the judge has direct authority and supervises the investigation into the facts of the case. This is in contrast to the civil and criminal justice systems in Thailand (and most countries) based on the role of a judge as the one who examines the case based solely on the arguments of the prosection and defence attorneys. The administrative court was set up to resolve complaints against the misconduct, neglect or outright abuse by bureaucratic and government agencies. The constitution court was set up to resolve conflicts about unconstitutional legislation.\n\nApparently the drafters of the 1997 Constitution, one of the most \"democratic\" constitutions, were quite far sighted by putting in a mechanism to resolve abuses and misconduct by people in authority. But then the Constitutional Court was initially not seen as important, and few anticipated the nature of potential conflicts in legislation could be critical. So the more experienced judges did not see any prestige in taking up position within that judiciary.\n\nTheir oversight became glaring when Thaksin's 1st Asset Concealment case was brought to the Constitutional Court. His TRT party had just won the popular vote by a historic majority, but he had not completely disclosed his assets as required by the law. A false asset disclosure would normally disqualify someone from taking up any political post for five years. But he pleaded with tears in his eyes that it was just a clerical error. The judges voted narrowly by a 7–8 margin, allowing Thaksin to take up the office of Prime Minister. Thaksin himself claimed that people had overwhelmingly voted for his party and his wealth was distributed in many assets that the clerical error could probably be an \"honest mistake\".\n\nOn 27 September 2005, \"Manager Daily\" published a sermon by Luang Ta Maha Bua, a popular but controversial monk. The sermon, previously the supporter of Thaksin, became extremely critical of his \"former disciple\". The issue became further controversial because it came from a monk who is one of Thailand's most revered temple abbots (who are above criticism in Buddhist Thailand) and who has organised several huge donations of solid gold to the Thai Treasury after the previous financial crisis. Especially controversial were the following quotes:\n\n\"They complained to me about PM Thaksin and Mr. Visanu and two other people that I don’t remember. This is the big ogre [Thai: ตัวยักษ์ใหญ่], big power. Atrocious power will swallow our country, bite liver and lungs and aim for the presidency...He will put a torch to the country. He will never listen...This savagery and atrocity appear in every aspect of him... All he has are things to be used for burning.\"\n\n\"\"He is clearly aiming for the presidency now. The monarch trampled, the religion trampled, the country trampled, by this savage and atrocious power in a few people in the government circle. That is the circle of ogres, of ghosts, of trolls, of demons [Thai:ยักษ์วงผีวงเปรตวงมาร], all in there...So even Devadatta saw the harm he caused, and he was rewarded for his good deed. He would attain Buddhahood [Thai:พระปัจเจกพุทธเจ้า]. For those who have made mistakes, if we see the harm we cause, we can still get by. But what is it with Thailand? What kind of governance?\"\n\n\"They even dare to accuse Luangta Maha Bua of playing politics. Politics, dog shit [Thai:การบ้านการเมืองขี้หมาอะไร]. There’s only shit all over the country. I brought Buddha’s dharma to cleanse in order for them to repent and recognise good and evil. Because they’re the government. The world flatters them as smart people, but don’t be smart down the toilet [Thai:แต่อย่าฉลาดลงส้วมลงถาน]. Don’t be smart about putting a torch to the head of everyone in the country, from Nation, Religion, and Monarchy on down. These guys will get burned unless they recognise the truth. I’m saddened by all this. How does this come about?\"\n\nOn 11 October 2005, Thaksin sued \"Manager\" newspaper for THB 500 million. As monks have traditionally been above criticism, Thaksin did not sue Luang Ta Maha Bua. \"This is an exercise of an individual's right to protect his reputation and privacy. The newspaper did not criticise the prime minister fairly as a public official, but rather it took him to task personally, using harsh words, which was damaging to him,\" Thana Benjathikul, Thaksin's lawyer said.\n\nThaksin was immediately attacked by critics and accused of gagging the press. \"Manager\" owner Sondhi Limthongkul's lawyer, Suwat Apaipakdi, quoting claimed that \"every newspaper reproduced his [Luang Ta Maha Bua] comments. Why did Thaksin not sue him [Luang Ta Maha Bua]? He chose to sue only the Manager Media Group because it's linked to Khun Sondhi\". Thaksin's legal team noted that other newspapers only published selected passages of the sermon, and furthermore, that a slanderous headline was used. Respected civil rights lawyer Thongbai Thongpao has noted that Thaksin's lawsuit did have merit. He added that the lawsuits \"do not constitute an attack on freedom of the press\".\n\nAs recently as 14 March 2006, Luang Ta Maha Bua has asked Thaksin to resign. In a sermon that the monk called \"most vehement since the temple was set up,\" the monk said it was time for Thaksin to abandon the \"rotten system he is presiding over\". He described the government as \"wicked, corrupt, power-hungry and greedy\".\n\nOn 10 April 2005, Thaksin Shinawatra presided over a \"secret\" and \"private\" merit-making ceremony at the Temple of the Emerald Buddha, the holiest site in Thai Buddhism.\n\nStarting October 2005, the website of Phoochatkarn newspaper ran an article alleging that the Prime Minister had usurped the Royal powers of the King by presiding over the ceremony. This blast, referring to a photo printed in The Nation Multimedia newspaper, led Sondhi Limthongkul, the owner of Phoochatkarn, to start using \"We Love the King\", \"We Will Fight for the King\", and \"Return Power to the King\" as his key anti-Thaksin rallying slogans. This allegation has been repeated in Sondhi's \"Thailand Weekly\" live tapings. It also became a staple of the Thailand-insider.com website of Ekkayuth Anchanbutr, a notable critic of Thaksin. A widely circulated spam email showed a picture of Thaksin sitting on a chair normally used by the King and asking \"People are familiar with images only of the King and members of the Royal Family, all dressed in royal uniforms and decorated with full regalia, presiding over grand ceremonies in the temple’s main chapel. Yet this picture makes me think: What has happened to our country?\".\n\nOn 9 November 2005, Cabinet secretary-general Bovornsak Uwanno claimed that King Bhumibol Adulyadej granted permission to Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra to preside over a grand merit-making ceremony. This was corroborated by Chaktham Thammasak, who was director-general of the Bureau of National Buddhism during the time of the incident. Chaktham claims that the Royal Household Bureau designed every aspect of the ceremony, including the positioning of the chairs.\n\nOn 17 November 2005, the Civil Court issued a gag order on Sondhi to prevent him from making further allegations. This immediately prompted academics and intellectuals to attack Thaksin and accuse him of restricting press freedom. In November 2005, General Kittisak Ratprasert, former chief aide-de-camp to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, filed a complaint at Phra Ratchawang police station alleging that Thaksin and his deputy Visanu Krue-ngarm committed lèse majesté at the Temple.\n\nThese charges have apparently been quietly dropped after King Bhumibol Adulyadej's birthday speech where he claimed he didn't take lèse majesté charges seriously. However, to this day, Sondhi still uses \"We Will Fight for the King\" and \"Return Power to the King\" as rallying cries in his anti-Thaksin protests.\n\nIn the early hours of 21 March 2006, Thanakorn Pakdeepol, 27, broke into the Phra Phrom Erawan Shrine in central Bangkok and attacked the statue of the god Brahma with a hammer. After destroying the statue, he was attacked and beaten to death by several people in the vicinity. Thanakorn Pakdeepol had a history of mental illness and depression. Thai police are still investigating the case but it became complicated as the wrongdoer was beaten to death.\n\nAt an anti-Thaksin rally on 22 March, protest-leader Sondhi Limthongkul claimed that Thaksin Shinawatra masterminded the destruction of the idol to replace Brahma with a \"dark force\" aligned to Thaksin. Sondhi claimed that Thaksin hired Thanakorn through a Khmer black magic shaman. Sondhi also questioned \"why was the man stomped to death after he smashed the statue? I have in-depth information about someone who is deeply obsessed with superstition[referring to Thaksin]. He wants to destroy Thao Maha Phrom so that he can rebuild it by himself and then bury \"his stuff\" in the statue. This is a way to avert ill omens.\"\n\nThe vandal's father, Sayant Pakdeepol called Sondhi \"the biggest liar I have ever seen\". Thaksin called Sondhi's accusations \"insane\". To date, Sondhi has refused to make public any details about his \"in-depth information\" regarding his accusations.\n\nProtesters made many personal attacks against Thaksin Shinawatra. It is debatable whether such attacks had any significant role in his downfall. Among them:\n\nOn Monday, 23 January 2006, three days after new Thai Telecommunication Act (2006) passed on Friday, 20 January, his family sold all stake in Shin Corporation, a leading communication company in Thailand, to Temasek Holdings with tax liability exemption. The families of Thaksin and his wife netted about 73 billion baht (about US$1.88 billion) tax-free from the buyout, using a regulation that individuals (as opposed to corporations) who sell shares on the stock exchange pay no capital gains tax.\n\nThe Thailand Securities and Exchange Commission investigated the transaction. \"The investigation concluded that Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and his daughter Pinthongta are clear from all wrongdoing,\" said SEC secretary-general Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala on 23 February 2006. However, the SEC did find that Thaksin's son, Panthongtae, violated rules with regard to information disclosure and public tender offers in transactions between 2000 and 2002. He was fined 6 million THB (about 150,000USD). \"The case is not severe because Panthongtae did inform the SEC but his report was not totally correct\" said the SEC's deputy chief Prasong Vinaiphat.\n\nAllegations of insider trading by the Shinawatras, executives, and major shareholders were also investigated. No irregularities were found. The military junta later reopened the investigations.\n\nThe transactions have made the Prime Minister the target of accusations that he was selling an asset of national importance to a foreign entity, and hence selling out his nation. The Democrat party spokesman called Thaksin worse than Saddam Hussein for not protecting the Thai economy from foreigners: \"Dictator Saddam, though a brutal tyrant, still fought the superpower for the Iraqi motherland\". Supporters, however, counter that Thailand's mobile phone industry is highly competitive, and that little criticism was raised when the Norwegian firm Telenor acquired Total Access Communication, the country's second largest operator. Democrat Party leader Abhisit Vejjajiva had criticised Thaksin earlier for not sufficiently opening up the Thai telecom sector to foreigners.\n\nThe prime minister faced growing pressure to resign since the sell-off of his family’s controlling stake in Shin Corporation to Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government's investment agency. Although the SEC's investigation of the transaction cleared Thaksin of all wrongdoing, critics have still accused him of insider trading, use of tax law loopholes, selling out the nation, and other offences.\n\nAnti-Thaksin protesters are largely composed of urban upper/middle class royalist Bangkokians, dubbed the \"Blue Blood Jet Set\" by the \"Bangkok Post\". They have been joined by supporters of the controversial Santi Asoke Buddhist sect, followers of the controversial monk Luang Ta Maha Bua, and state enterprises employees who oppose privatisation. Some academics and intellectuals have also joined the protests.\n\nHowever, the protests have been divisive. Many urban upper/middle class Bangkokians have expressed frustration at the protesters. Early in 2005, a majority of the employees at state-owned Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand supported privatisation. The popular but controversial Dharmakaya Buddhist sect has come out in support of Thaksin. Several members of King Bhumibol Adulyadej's Privy Council have asked protesters to seek a peaceful resolution to the situation. Supreme Commander General Ruengroj Mahasaranond said \"I should like to direct my message at a certain person who resorts to self-promotion by invoking the name of His Majesty...Rivals should not involve the monarch in their quarrels\". Many academics have urged the protesters to adhere to the constitution and not pressure the King to appoint a replacement prime minister. Many also note that the majority of Thailand's population, particular the rural poor, are strong supporters of Thaksin.\nOn 14 January 2006, hundreds of protestors headed by Sondhi Limthongkul, former senator Pratin Santiprapop, Klanarong Chantik, and Democrat MP Kalaya Sophonpanich stormed into Government House at half past midnight, overwhelming security forces. They occupied the building for twenty minutes before regrouping outside and continuing their protest.\n\nAn anti-Thaksin rally on 4 February 2006 at the Royal Plaza drew a very large crowd.\nPolice and foreign media estimated the turnout to be 40,000 – 50,000. Some local newspapers estimated that up to 100,000 attended. Afterwards, protests waned, with rewer protesters showed up at the Royal Plaza the next weekend. Most Thai newspapers estimated the turnout at 30,000 – 50,000 people. \"Phoochatkarn Raiwan\" (owned by Sondhi Limthongkul, the leader of the protest) estimated 100,000 attended. The BBC, Reuters, and AFP estimated 5,000 – 15,000 attended.\n\nThe PAD's protests took on an increasingly critical tone in February. In a single protest on 26 February 2006, Buddhist leader Sulak Sivaraksa called Thaksin a pitiful dog and chairman of the northeastern teachers' group Auychai Watha called for Thaksin's children to \"become whores infected with venereal disease.\" The behaviour of the protesters was condemned by the Chairperson of Amnesty International Thailand. Protestors often harassed journalists and newscrews.\n\nOn 3 March 2006, a pro-Thaksin rally at Sanam Luang arranged by the TRT party was attended by a massive crowd. Local media reported that up to 200,000 people attended. Some foreign media reported up to 150,000 attended. In this rally, Thaksin promised that \"If my party receive less votes than the number of people abstaining combined with votes for smaller parties, I will not accept the premiership...I beg the three opposition parties, Democrat, Chat Thai and Mahachon, to join the contest. If they really insist on a boycott, they can campaign for voters to mark \"abstention\" to reject me\". He also promised to amend Article 313 of the Constitution to allow representatives of the people to draft a new charter as occurred in 1974 after the 1973 bloodshed. Some additional laws later would be amended, he said. The whole political reform would take about one year before a referendum to endorse the new charter and another parliament dissolution before a new election. Anti-Thaksin protesters have claimed that most of the attendants were uneducated people who were paid to attend.\n\nOn 5 March 2006, while Thaksin was campaigning for the April 2006 elections in the rural areas, tens of thousands of protesters in Bangkok, shouting \"Thaksin Get Out\" and \"Restore Power to the King\", demanded the resignation of the Prime Minister. The anti-Thaksin rally included the burning of an effigy of him in a mock funeral to cries of \"Thaksin out! Thaksin out!\" It was described as \"the biggest anti-government demonstration in Thailand since 1992\" in some news reports.\nThe protest also included a satirical Chinese opera and performances of anti-Thaksin Lam tad\" singing.\n\nStarting 13 March 2006, anti-Thaksin protests moved to permanent tents and stands outside Government House at the Miskawan Intersection, leading to massive traffic jams in that area. By 5.30 pm, 18 March 2006, approximately 3,000 were protesting at Government House (source: Thai Rath, 19 March 2005).\n\nOn 18 March 2006, Nuansri Rodkhrut, a representative of the Thai Red Cross, met protest-leader Chamlong Srimuang to inform him that protest tents were in space reserved for the 2006 Red Cross Fair. She was roundly booed by protesters. The Red Cross Fair is held annually at the Royal Plaza, Amphorn Gardens, Sri Ayuthaya Road, and the Miskawan Intersection from the end of March to early April. The fair is hosted by the Thai Red Cross Society and was to be attended by Princess Sirindhorn. Chamlong responded \"The protest area does not belong to any individual. Our move from Sanam Luang to Government House to kick out PM Thaksin is our job. I have been to the Red Cross Fair since I was a kid, and I don't want to disrupt it. In fact, it is good that the protesters can visit the fair and raise its attendance. Few Fair attendees will visit the area used by the protesters.\" He suggested to Nuansri that the entrance booth of the Fair be moved 10 meters behind the main stage of the protests. Nuansri responded that she would seek further guidance from her superiors. On the same day, Traffic Police Commander Phanu Kerdlabphon warned that any disruption of Princess Sirindhorn's visit to the Fair would \"surely lead to trouble\". Chamlong was quoted as saying \"If the officers consider it is against the law, then, come and arrest all 100,000 of us here\".\n\nStarting 15 March 2006, Thaksin supporters have moved en-masse to Bangkok from the North and North-east in a caravan of Ee Taen (slow-moving diesel-engine powered farming vehicles), Thai: อีแต๋น). The \"Mob Ee Taen\" (so called by the Thai press), as of 18 March 2006, numbered thousands of demonstrators in several hundred Ee Taen and had chosen Chatuchak Park, in the north of Bangkok, as its demonstration site.\n\nThe farmers were joined by 400 motorcycle taxi drivers, who claim that a Thaksin-initiated crackdown has eliminated the need to make payments to corrupt police and underworld elements.\n\nOn 19 March 2006, a group of Thaksin supporters burned a coffin of Apirak Kosayothin, Democrat governor of Bangkok, claiming that the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration was trying to force the protesters out of Chatuchak Park, that the BMA would not provide any water, and provided only two mobile toilet buses. Anti-Thaksin protesters have claimed that the Thaksin supporters are uneducated and had been paid to come support Thaksin. They have also claimed that it is illegal to drive Ee Taen on city streets.\n\nOn the week before the 2006 election, the anti-Thaksin rally moved to Bangkok's shopping districts, with rallies at Bumrungrad International Hospital, The Emporium, and Siam Square. Siam Centre, Siam Discovery, Siam Paragon, and many other businesses and office buildings in the protest area were closed, causing up to 1.2 billion baht in losses. On 29 March, the BTS skytrain had to shut down service at the Siam intersection station, though the service also reported record ridership as a result of the protest rallies. The protests also caused major traffic jams throughout Bangkok, especially Sukhumvit Road and Silom Road, both major Bangkok arteries. The local press estimated 50,000 protesters, although foreign press and independent observers noted only 5,000 – 30,000.\n\nThe anti-Thaksin protesters were harshly criticised, with 50,000 complaints being made to the FM91 traffic radio station. A poll showed that 71% of Bangkokians disagreed with the protests being moved into the city centre. An opinion poll showed that 26% of Bangkok people supported the resignation of Thaksin, compared to 48% three weeks previously. Protest leader Chamlong Srimuang defended the protesters, saying \"Two days of traffic jams is a minor matter, but the nation remaining jammed up was a big problem.\"\n\nPlanning for the coup started in approximately February 2006 and continued in secret during the subsequent crisis. Rumours about unrest in the armed forces and possible coup plots unfurled for months leading to the coup. In May 2006, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin issued assurances that the military would not seize power. On 20 July 2006, around a hundred middle-ranking army officers said to be supporters of Thaksin were reassigned by the army high command, fuelling rumours that the army was divided between supporters and opponents of the prime minister. In July 2006, 3rd Army Area Commander Saprang Kalayanamitr gave an interview where he stated that Thai politics was below standard and that the Kingdom's leadership was weak. He also claimed that Thailand had a false democracy. In August 2006, there were reports of tank movements near Bangkok, but the military attributed these to a scheduled exercise. In early September, Thai police arrested five army officers, all members of Thailand's counter-insurgency command, after intercepting one of the officers with a bomb in a car allegedly targeting the prime minister's residence. Three of the suspects were released after the coup.\n\nIn December 2006, former National Security Council head Prasong Soonsiri claimed that he and five other senior military figures had been planning a coup as early as July. He claimed that Sonthi was one of those figures, but that Surayud and Prem were not involved at the time.\n\nIn February 2006, 28 senators submitted a petition to the Constitutional Court calling for the Prime Minister's impeachment for conflicts of interest and improprieties in the sell-off of Shin Corporation under Articles 96, 216 and 209 of the Thai constitution. The senators said the Prime Minister violated the Constitution and was no longer qualified for office under Article 209. However, the Court rejected the petition on 16 February, with the majority judges saying the petition failed to present sufficient grounds to support the prime minister's alleged misconduct.\n\nAnother impeachment attempt was made by the Thai university students network, led by Thammasat University students. A petition was launched to impeach Thaksin via the Senate. As of 27 February 2006, over 50,000 people signed the petition. This exceeded the minimum number required by the Constitution to launch the bid.\n\nThaksin announced a House dissolution on 24 February 2006, in a bid to defuse the political crisis triggered by his family’s sale of Shin Corporation. General elections were scheduled for 2 April. In his weekly radio address following the announcement of his decision, Thaksin promised a series of new populist measures, including pay rises for government workers, an increase in the minimum wage and debt relief for farmers. The opposition Democrat, Chart Thai and Mahachon parties announced a boycott of the election on 27 February.\n\n\"The Nation\" criticised Thaksin for calling for parliamentary elections. In an editorial, it noted that the election \"fails to take into consideration a major fallacy of the concept, particularly in a less-developed democracy like ours, in which the impoverished, poorly informed masses are easily manipulated by people of his ilk. And Thaksin's manipulation has been well documented. It includes an ingenious use of populist policies that pander to the unprincipled wants and needs of the people.\"\n\nOn 24 March 2006, in front of a rally of 50,000 at Sanam Luang, Democrat party leader Abhisit Vejjajiva demanded that King Bhumibol Adulyadej appoint a new Prime Minister and Cabinet to resolve the political crisis. The People's Alliance for Democracy's (PAD), The Law Society of Thailand, and the Press Council of Thailand also called for royal intervention. Pongsak Payakavichien, of the Press Council, also called on the civil service to detach itself from the government and demand royal intervention.\n\nHowever, demands for royal intervention have met with much criticism. The King himself in speeches on 26 April to newly appointed judges dismissed the notion, saying Article 7 of the Constitution invoked by the anti-Thaksin protestors did not give him that power. \"Asking for a Royally appointed prime minister is undemocratic. It is, pardon me, a mess. It is irrational.\" Worachet Pakeerut, a law lecturer at Thammasat University, noted \"We're trying to involve the monarch in politics, but it's still not time. If we appeal for a new prime minister, aren't we asking the monarch to take sides?\" Passakorn Atthasit and 20 relatives of people killed in the October 1973 democracy uprising tied a black cloth around the Democracy Monument and said \"We don't care if Mr. Thaksin remains in the post. All we care is that the prime minister is elected. Asking for a royally-bestowed prime minister is akin to ripping the charter apart.\"\n\nUnofficial results as of 3 April 2006 gave Thaksin's TRT Party victory, with 462 seats in Parliament and 66% of the popular vote. However, 38 TRT candidates, all in the Democrat-dominated south, failed to win up to 20% of votes from eligible voters in their constituency, thus forcing the Election Commission to hold by-elections on 23 April. Election Commission commissioner Prinya Nakchudtree said that election laws would allow new applications in 23 April by-elections, allowing the Democrat Party (which had boycotted 3 April elections) to run in the by-elections. However, the Democrat Party has vowed to boycott the by-elections and has petitioned the Central Administrative Court to cancel the by-elections. Many expect that this will prevent Parliament from reconvening and a Government from forming within the 3 May time-limit set by the Constitution.<ref name=\"04/07/thailand.politics/\"></ref>\n\nThaksin unofficially claimed that TRT won 16 million votes nationwide, with 10 million abstentions and invalid ballots, giving him greater than half of the popular vote. Thaksin had earlier promised to not accept the premiership if he received less than half the total vote.\n\nIn Bangkok, despite a large number of abstentions, TRT won in every district with ืnot much more than 20% of votes. Out of 2,329,294 Bangkok votes counted as of 22.31 hrs on 3 April 2006, TRT won 1,035,254 votes, the remainder being abstentions and invalid ballots.\n\nAfter unofficial voting tallies became public, the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) petitioned the Administrative Court to suspend the results of the election. Chamlong Srimuang declared that the PAD would ignore the results of the election and that the \"PAD will go on rallying until Thaksin resigns and Thailand gets a royally-appointed prime minister.\"\n\nOn 3 April 2006, Thaksin Shinawatra appeared on television to declare victory in the controversial 2006 election, called for unity in the kingdom, reiterated his proposal for a government of national unity, and proposed the creation of an independent reconciliatory commission to end the political stalemate. He offered to resign if the new panel recommended it. The commission could consist of three former parliament presidents, three Supreme Court presidents, three former prime ministers and rectors of state universities. He also suggested that four potential candidates from the TRT could replace him if he stepped down, including former House Speaker Bhokin Bhalakula and caretaker Commerce Minister Somkid Jatusripitak.\n\nThe Democrat Party and the PAD immediately rejected the reconciliation panel. \"It's too late for national reconciliation,\" said Chamlong Srimuang.<ref name=\"201527/1/.html\"></ref> The PAD claimed that once again Thaksin was using votes to justify himself, and called for a nationwide protest on Friday 7 April to force the Prime Minister to resign.\n\nAfter an audience with King Bhumibol, Thaksin announced on 4 April 2006 that he would not accept the post of Prime Minister after the Parliament reconvenes. However, he would continue to be Caretaker Prime Minister until his successor is elected by the Parliament.\n\n\"My main reason for not accepting the post of prime minister is because this year is an auspicious year for the king, whose 60th anniversary on the throne is just 60 days away… I want all Thais to reunite,\" said Thaksin in a nationally televised speech. He then delegated his functions to Caretaker Deputy Prime Minister Chidchai Wannasathit, moved out of Government House, and scheduled a vacation with his family.\n\nThe Democrat Party welcomed the decision and promised to co-operate to resolve the current political crisis. However, they continued their boycott of by-elections. Many expected that the boycott would prevent Parliament from reconvening and a Government from forming within the 3 May time-limit set by the Constitution – thus causing a constitutional crisis. In a celebration at Sanam Luang on 7 April, PAD leaders announced that their new goal was the eradication of the Thaksin \"regime\" amid continued concerns that a constitutional crisis, a lack of a government, and continued protests could spoil King Bhumibol Adulyadej's Diamond Jubilee Celebrations on 9 June.\n\nIn a rare, televised speech to senior judges, King Bhumibol requested that the judiciary take action to resolve the political crisis. On 8 May 2006, the Constitution Court invalidated the results of the April elections and ordered a new round of elections, later set for October elections. Several judges also called for three members of the Election Commission to resign. The Commissioners refused to do so, citing their constitutional independence. Several legal experts including Worachet Pakeerut and Banjerd Singkanet of Thammasat University noted the unprecedented nature of the judiciary's demands. \"I'm concerned that if the courts get too involved in political affairs, politics may hit back. Moreover, it's difficult to examine the courts, and who is to examine the courts' use of power in politics,\" said Worachet. When the Commissioners still refused to resign, the Criminal Court jailed the Election Commissioners, removing them from their posts.\n\nThaksin returned to work on 19 May 2006, in the wake of the Constitutional Court's nullification of the April elections and catastrophic flooding in the North. However, political tension remained high. On 22 May, Pairoj Vongvipanon, former dean of the Faculty of Economics, Chulalongkorn University, warned Thaksin of assassination: \"Thaksin must be careful or else he might be killed. Don't think that assassinations can not occur in Thailand. \"\n\nOn the eve of King Bhumibol Adulyadej's 60th anniversary celebrations, the Manager newspaper and website published several articles on the \"Finland Plan\", an alleged conspiracy designed by Thaksin and other Thai Rak Thai co-founders aimed at overthrowing the King and seizing control of the country. Democrat Party deputy secretary-general Thaworn Senniam (Thai: ถาวร เสนเนียม) commented that the Finland Plan was \"obviously true\". In retaliation, Thaksin and TRT sued the owner of the Manager daily Sondhi Limthongkul, its editor, a columnist and two executives for libel.\n\nOn 29 June 2006, Thaksin noted that the political crisis was aggravated \"because charismatic people and some organisations outside those sanctioned by the Constitution are trying to overthrow the government, rules and laws, Constitution and democracy.\" This provoked speculation by many, including several members of the royal family, that Thaksin was referring to either King Bhumibol or Privy Council President Prem Tinsulanonda. Sondhi Limthongkul called for the public to take a stand and choose between the King and Thaksin.\n\nOn 14 July 2006, Privy Council President Prem Tinsulanonda addressed graduating cadets of the Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy, telling them that the Thai military must obey the orders of the King – not the Government.\n\nOn 24 August 2006, a car containing 67 kilograms of explosives was stopped near Thaksin's residence in Thonburi. Metropolitan Police Bureau Commissioner Lt-General Wiroj Jantharangsee noted that the explosives in the car were completely assembled, equipped with a remote unit sensor and ready to be detonated, and would have a blast radius of around one kilometre. Pol Major Kamthorn Ooycharoen, head of the police bomb-disposal squad at the scene, also noted that the bomb was live and ready for detonation. The bomb was composed of sticks TNT, M-8 military fuses, TNT, C-4 plastic explosives, a remote control unit, and nine plastic containers containing ammonium nitrate fuel oil (ANFO). The car was driven by Lieutenant Thawatchai Klinchana, former personal chauffeur of Pallop Pinmanee, Deputy Director of Internal Security Operations Command (ISOC). Police found that the car had left ISOC headquarters earlier that morning. Thawatchai was immediately arrested and Pallop was released from his position.\n\nPallop denied all involvement, noting that \"If had wanted to do it, I would have done it more subtly...In my career, I have led death squads. If I had wanted to kill him, the Prime Minister would not have escaped.\" He also claimed that \"the explosives were being transported, they were not assembled to be detonated.\" Government critics claimed that the car bomb was a government conspiracy. Five army officers were later arrested for their role in the plot. Lt-General Pirach Swamivat, a schoolmate of Pallop's at the Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy, said he believed that Pallop had been framed. He said it might have something to do with Pallop having sent his men to guard Maj-General Chamlong Srimuang, another Culachomklao schoolmate, who has become critical of Thaksin and is a leader of the anti-government People's Alliance for Democracy.Three officers, including Thawatchai, were released after the military overthrew the Thaksin government.\n\nThe ongoing political crisis escalated drastically on 19 September 2006 when Thai Army units loyal to the army chief of staff, Gen Sonthi Boonyaratglin, staged a coup attempt in Bangkok to unseat Thaksin while he was attending a meeting of the United Nations in New York City.\n\nIn a statement, the military Democratic Reform Council cited the government's alleged lèse majesté, interference with state agencies, and creation of social divisions as reasons for the coup. The allegations, however, failed to be pursued seriously, except for charges of corruption in which Thaksin, family and associates were identified by name and criminal offence in court documents. The lèse majesté charge, in fact, was somewhat confused by 2008 accusations by Thai courts that Sondhi Limthongkul, media barron and former associate-turned foe of Thaksin had induced Thai people to believe that there were pro and con-monarchy groups in Thailand. Some believe the accusation was an attempt to reduce the negative image of Thaksin among royalists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13755217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13755217", "title": "African National Congress Women's League", "text": "African National Congress Women's League\n\nThe African National Congress Women's League is the women's wing of the African National Congress (ANC). It was founded in 1931 as the Bantu Women's League, with Charlotte Maxeke as its first president. It was integrated into the ANC during the period from 1943, when women were first admitted as members of the ANC, to 1948, when the ANCWL was officially founded. It participated with the Federation of South African Women in protests against the apartheid-era government, such as the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the Women's March of 9 August 1956. In 1956, Lilian Ngoyi became the first elected female member of the ANC National Executive Committee. In 1960 the organization was banned along with the ANC forcing its central leaders underground; it was unbanned in 1990 when the ANC was likewise unbanned.\n\nThe League's current president is Bathabile Dlamini.\n\nAmong the activists and politicians who were allied with the ANC during the apartheid years are:\n\n\nThe ANC Women's League has been criticised for failing to take up women's issues in recent years.\n"}
{"id": "30813547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30813547", "title": "Anti-Socialist Union", "text": "Anti-Socialist Union\n\nThe Anti-Socialist Union was a British political pressure group that supported free trade economics and opposed socialism. It was active from 1908 to 1948 with its heyday occurring before the First World War.\n\nComing from the same laissez-faire economic position as contemporaries such as the Liberty and Property Defence League and the British Constitution Association, the ASU was established in 1908 by \"Daily Express\" editor R. D. Blumenfeld. Avowedly non-political its main membership came from the Conservative Party and the ASU campaigned against the social reforms enacted by the Liberal Party governments of Henry Campbell-Bannerman and Herbert Henry Asquith, denouncing these as socialist initiatives.\n\nThe group was active in the election campaigns of January and December 1910 when some of its rallies and meetings ended in violence. Keir Hardie was a focus of its activity. Enjoying a circulation of some 70,000 for its journal around that time, the ASU included a young Stanley Baldwin amongst its membership. Other leading members in the early years included William Hurrell Mallock, Walter Long and Samuel Hoare.\n\nThe group went on hiatus during the First World War before being revived initially under the name Reconstruction Society before becoming the Anti-Socialist and Anti-Communist Union, attacking such figures as Harold Laski and Maurice Dobb whilst also attempting to prove links between the Labour Party and the Soviet Union. By this time however its role had largely been usurped by the British Empire Union and with no local branch structure it struggled for influence. Nonetheless the group claimed that between 1918 and 1922 it organised around ten thousand meetings.\n\nAlthough avowedly a free trade movement the ASU found itself linked with the fascist movements that began to emerge in the 1920s, largely due to their shared opposition to communism. Under the presidency of Brigadier-General R.B.D. Blakeney the British Fascists (BF) forged links with the ASU with a number of ASU members from military backgrounds joining the BF. Leading ASU figures such as George Makgill, John Baker White and even Blumenfeld became associated with the BF. Nesta Webster, a leading BF ideologue, was also a member of the ASU and wrote and researched a number of their publications. Also at this time the chairman of the ASU was Wilfrid Ashley, who would later also serve as the Chairman of the Anglo-German Fellowship. Harry Brittain, who enjoyed a close friendship with Joachim von Ribbentrop, was a member of the Executive Committee of the ASU. In an attempt to counter the growing support for socialism among sections of the working class, it also began to advocate some vaguely corporatist initiatives such as profit-sharing schemes for workers. Generally however the Union disavowed fascism and did not formally work with any fascist groups.\n\nThe group continued until 1948 when it was wound up, turning its assets over to the Economic League.\n"}
{"id": "32678706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32678706", "title": "Australian Nationalist Party", "text": "Australian Nationalist Party\n\nThe Australian Nationalist Party (ANP) was a minor Australian political party that contested the 1958 federal election. The ANP unsuccessfully ran five candidates in Queensland: Noel Condie in the division of Bowman, John Morgan in the division of Brisbane, Mervyn Goldstiver in the division of Lilley, Horace Burge in the division of Petrie, and Ronald Edmonds in the division of Ryan. The party's objectives included opposition to communism and socialization, reducing taxes, restoring the proportion of British immigration to 75% of the total, deportation of migrants convicted of certain crimes, increasing social services, restoration of full employment, opposition to salary rises for politicians, and support for states' rights.\n"}
{"id": "42347966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42347966", "title": "Center for Arizona Policy", "text": "Center for Arizona Policy\n\nThe Center for Arizona Policy (CAP) is a nonprofit conservative lobbying group based in Arizona. The organization advocates for the passage of socially conservative policies in the state. It also produces voter guides to encourage its supporters to elect conservative lawmakers. Over 100 bills supported by CAP have been signed into law in Arizona.\n\nCAP employees co-wrote Arizona's controversial SB 1062, which would have shielded business owners and employees from lawsuits if they refused service to anyone based on sincerely held religious beliefs. The bill was vetoed by governor Jan Brewer.\n\nThe Center for Arizona Policy was founded by Len Munsil in 1995; he served as Founding President and General Counsel until 2005. The current President is Cathi Herrod, who joined the organization as legal counsel in 1997.\n\nCAP receives some of its funding from the National Christian Charitable Foundation, an organization largely funded with money from the Hobby Lobby craft store company. In 2011 the Foundation awarded $236,250 of the $1.6 million CAP received in grant revenue that year.\n\nCAP has supported and lobbied for over 100 bills that have been signed into law in Arizona. In 2012 alone, 13 CAP-supported bills passed, including a law banning abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy.\n\nThe Center for Arizona Policy opposes legal abortion and has supported legislation to restrict access to abortion. CAP helped to write a bill in Arizona to require that women to explain to their medical providers why they are seeking to have an abortion. Lawsuits against anti-abortion laws have cost Arizona taxpayers more than $2 million, but CAP president, Cathi Herrod, stated that the anti-abortion policies \"outweigh the losses in court.\"\n\nIn 2013, the City of Bisbee announced that it intended to legalize same-sex civil unions within the municipality. The Arizona Attorney General, Tom Horne, initially opposed the ordinance, but withdrew a legal challenge after the city adopted an amended version of the ordinance that complied with state laws. The Center for Arizona Policy opposed the city's move to offer civil unions and responded with a challenge saying, \"If the City of Bisbee enacts a law recognizing a quasi-marital relationship not provided for by Arizona law, it will likely find itself involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation, which it is likely to lose.\" Following Bisbee, the cities and towns of Clarkdale, Cottonwood, Jerome, Sedona, and Tucson also approved of civil unions.\n\nCAP describes acceptance of homosexuality in society as \"a deceitful and angry ideology\" and supports what it describes as a \"biblical value that God has a specific intent for sexuality and that it is only realized in the relationship between one man and one woman within the confines of marriage.\" \n\nThe Center for Arizona Policy, along with the Alliance Defending Freedom, helped write Arizona Senate Bill 1062, a controversial bill that, if signed into law, would have allowed business owners and employees to refuse to serve anyone based on sincerely held religious beliefs. Supporters of the bill claimed it was meant to protect the religious freedoms of Arizonans, while opponents pointed out that it was intended to allow discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people. Top aides for Arizona Governor Jan Brewer worked closely with CAP in crafting the language of the bill, but Brewer, in response to boycott threats and other economic pressure from various national groups, vetoed it on February 26, 2014, a few days after it passed the state Senate and House. CAP and its president Cathi Herrod received a great deal of media attention during the debate over the bill, with several stories highlighting the amount of influence the organization has in Arizona politics.\n"}
{"id": "4713044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4713044", "title": "Coalition of Concerned Citizens", "text": "Coalition of Concerned Citizens\n\nThe Coalition of Concerned Citizens was a New Zealand Christian conservative pressure group, and one of several attempts to form pro-censorship, anti-abortion, anti-gay and sex education opponents into a comprehensive social conservative political coalition. Its founders included Keith Hay, Peter Tait, Barry Reed, and Bill Subritzky.\n\nThe CCC was originally formed to fight the New Zealand Homosexual Law Reform Act, although its membership also unsuccessfully tried to defeat David Lange's Fourth Labour Government at the general election of 1987, through infiltration of New Zealand National Party branches. Besides its conservative stance on moral issues, the CCC was also strongly anti-Communist and pro-Western. It alleged that there was a conspiracy by Communist groups like the pro-Moscow Socialist Unity Party (SUP) to infiltrate the Labour Party, the trade unions, and exploit various popular issues like the anti-Springbok tour protests, Māori biculturalism, and the anti-nuclear movement.\n\nIn response to perceived Communist influence within these popular causes, Coalition activists and supporters supported maintaining ties with South Africa and preserving the ANZUS security alliance with the United States and Australia. It also opposed the introduction of Māori biculturalism and multiculturalism into the education system as 'anti-Christian' for allegedly promoting alternative religious beliefs.\n\nAccording to Laurie Guy, the coalition was disproportionately dominated by members of the Reformed Churches of New Zealand and Pentecostals. It produced a newsletter called \"Coalition Courier.\" Some of its more moderate membership left and joined the Christian Heritage Party (later renamed Christian Heritage New Zealand, now defunct) after 1989, disgruntled at the group's perceived tendencies toward right-wing extremism. During its existence, the organisation also produced an anti-gay booklet entitled \"The Social Effects of Homosexuality\" (1985), which relied significantly on the work of controversial US psychologist Paul Cameron.\n\nThe group ceased to exist in the late 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22651467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22651467", "title": "Cobra effect", "text": "Cobra effect\n\nThe cobra effect occurs when an attempted solution to a problem makes the problem worse, as a type of unintended consequence. The term is used to illustrate the causes of incorrect stimulation in economy and politics.\n\nThe term \"cobra effect\" originated in an anecdote set at the time of British rule of colonial India. The British government was concerned about the number of venomous cobra snakes in Delhi. The government therefore offered bounty for every dead cobra. Initially this was a successful strategy as large numbers of snakes were killed for the reward. Eventually, however, enterprising people began to breed cobras for the income. When the government became aware of this, the reward program was scrapped, causing the cobra breeders to set the now-worthless snakes free. As a result, the wild cobra population further increased. The apparent solution for the problem made the situation even worse.\n\nA similar incident occurred in Hanoi, Vietnam, under French colonial rule. The colonial regime created a bounty program that paid a reward for each rat killed. To obtain the bounty, people would provide the severed rat tail. Colonial officials, however, began noticing rats in Hanoi with no tails. The Vietnamese rat catchers would capture rats, lop off their tails, and then release them back into the sewers so that they could procreate and produce more rats, thereby increasing the rat catchers' revenue. Historian Michael Vann argues that the cobra example from British India cannot be proven, but that the rats in Vietnam case can be proven, so the term could be changed to the \"rat effect\".\n\nA 2001 book by German economist Horst Siebert is called \"The Cobra Effect\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39711745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39711745", "title": "Collective farming", "text": "Collective farming\n\nCollective farming and communal farming are various types of \"agricultural production in which multiple farmers run their holdings as a joint enterprise\". That type of collective is often an agricultural cooperative in which member-owners jointly engage in farming activities. The process by which farmland is aggregated is called collectivization. In some countries (including the Soviet Union, the Eastern Bloc countries, China and Vietnam), there have been state-run and cooperative-run variants. For example, the Soviet Union had both kolkhozy (cooperative-run type) and sovkhozy (state-run type), often denoted in English as collective farms and state farms, respectively.\n\nA small group of farming or herding families living together on a jointly managed piece of land is one of the most common living arrangements in all of human history as this has co-existed and competed with more individualistic forms of ownership as well as state ownership since the beginnings of agriculture. Private ownership came to predominate in much of the Western world and is therefore better studied. The process by which Western Europe's communal land and other property became private is a fundamental question behind views of property, namely is it the legacy of historical injustices and crimes? Karl Marx believed that what he called primitive communism (joint ownership) was ended by exploitative means he called primitive accumulation. By contrast, libertarian thinkers say that by the homestead principle whoever is first to work on the land is the rightful owner.\n\nDuring the Aztec rule of central Mexico, the country was divided into small territories called \"calpulli\", which were units of local administration concerned with farming as well as education and religion. A calpulli consisted of a number of large extended families with a presumed common ancestor, themselves each composed of a number of nuclear families. Each \"calpulli\" owned the land and granted the individual families the right to farm parts of it. When the Spanish conquered Mexico they replaced this with a system of \"haciendas\" or estates granted by the Spanish crown to Spanish colonists, as well as the \"encomienda\", a feudal-like right of overlordship colonists were given in particular villages, and the \"repartimiento\" or system of indigenous forced labor.\n\nFollowing the Mexican Revolution, a new constitution in 1917 abolished any remnant of feudal-like rights hacienda owners had over common lands and offered the development of \"ejidos\": communal farms formed on land purchased from the large estates by the Mexican government.\n\nThe Huron had an essentially communal system of land ownership. The French Catholic missionary Gabriel Sagard described the fundamentals. The Huron had \"as much land as they need[ed].\" As a result, the Huron could give families their own land and still have a large amount of excess land owned communally. Any Huron was free to clear the land and farm on the basis of usufruct. He maintained possession of the land as long as he continued to actively cultivate and tend the fields. Once he abandoned the land, it reverted to communal ownership, and anyone could take it up for themselves. While the Huron did seem to have lands designated for the individual, the significance of this possession may be of little relevance; the placement of corn storage vessels in the longhouses, which contained multiple families in one kinship group, suggests the occupants of a given longhouse held all production in common.\n\nThe Iroquois had a similar communal system of land distribution. The tribe owned all lands but gave out tracts to the different clans for further distribution among households for cultivation. The land would be redistributed among the households every few years, and a clan could request a redistribution of tracts when the Clan Mothers' Council gathered. Those clans that abused their allocated land or otherwise did not take care of it would be warned and eventually punished by the Clan Mothers' Council by having the land redistributed to another clan. Land property was really only the concern of the women, since it was the women's job to cultivate food and not the men's.\n\nThe Clan Mothers' Council also reserved certain areas of land to be worked by the women of all the different clans. Food from such lands, called \"kěndiǔ\"gwǎ'ge' hodi'yěn'tho\", would be used at festivals and large council gatherings.\n\nThe \"obshchina\" (, literally: \"commune\") or \"mir\" (, literally: \"society\" (one of the meanings)) or \"Selskoye obshestvo\" ( (\"Rural community\", official term in the 19th and 20th century) were peasant communities, as opposed to individual farmsteads, or khutors, in Imperial Russia. The term derives from the word о́бщий, \"obshchiy\" (common).\n\nThe vast majority of Russian peasants held their land in communal ownership within a mir community, which acted as a village government and a cooperative. Arable land was divided into sections based on soil quality and distance from the village. Each household had the right to claim one or more strips from each section depending on the number of adults in the household. The purpose of this allocation was not so much social (to each according to his needs) as it was practical (that each person pay his taxes). Strips were periodically re-allocated on the basis of a census, to ensure equitable share of the land. This was enforced by the state, which had an interest in the ability of households to pay their taxes.\n\nThe Soviet Union introduced collective farming in its constituent republics between 1927 and 1933. The Baltic states and most of the Central and East European countries (except Poland) adopted collective farming after World War II, with the accession of communist regimes to power. In Asia (People's Republic of China, North Korea, Vietnam) the adoption of collective farming was also driven by communist government policies. In most communist countries, the transition to collective farming involved compulsion.\n\nAs part of the first five-year plan, collectivization was introduced in the Soviet Union by general secretary Joseph Stalin in the late 1920s as a way, according to the policies of socialist leaders, to boost agricultural production through the organization of land and labor into large-scale collective farms (kolkhozy). At the same time, Joseph Stalin argued that collectivization would free poor peasants from economic servitude under the \"kulaks\" (farmland owners).\n\nStalin resorted to mass murder and wholesale deportation of farmers to Siberia in order to implement the plan. Millions who remained did not die of starvation, but the centuries-old system of farming was destroyed in a region so fertile it was once called \"the breadbasket of Europe\". The immediate effects of forced collectivization were reduced grain output and almost halved livestock numbers, thus creating major famines throughout the USSR during 1932 and 1933. In 1932–1933, an estimated 11 million people, 3–7 million in Ukraine alone, died from famine after Stalin forced the peasants into collectives (Ukrainians call this famine \"Holodomor\"). It was not until 1940 that agricultural production finally surpassed its pre-collectivization levels.\n\nCollectivization throughout Moldova was not aggressively pursued until the early 1960s because of the Soviet leadership's focus on a policy of Russification of Moldavians into the Russian way of life. Much of the collectivization in Moldova had undergone in Transnistria, in Chişinău, the present-day capital city of Moldova. Most of the directors who regulated and conducted the process of collectivization were placed by officials from Moscow.\n\nIn Romania, land collectivization began in 1948 and continued for over more than a decade until its virtual eradication in 1962.\n\nIn Romania, force sometimes had to be used to enforce collective agricultural practices. Collective farming in Romania was an attempt to implement the USSR's communist blueprint. Unfortunately, these attempts often fell short. By strictly adhering to this soviet blueprint, the implementation of communism in Romania inevitably created dilemmas and contributions that led to violence. Kligman and Verdery state \"The violence collectivization, emerges, then, less, as an abhoration than as a product of sociocultural shaping and of deep problems with how the soviet blueprint came to be implemented... instead of a gradual and integrated process of moving from one form of society to another, Romanian society in the Soviet orbit was being completely rearticulated, a process in which violence was inevitable.\" \n\nOn the other hand, as Kligman and Verdery explain, \"Collectivization brought undeniable benefits to some rural inhabitants, especially those who had owned little or no land. It freed them from laboring on the fields of others, and it increased their control over wages, lending to their daily existence a stability previously unknown to them.\" \n\n\"Трудово кооперативно земеделско стопанство\" was the name of collective farms in Bulgaria.\n\nIn Hungary, agricultural collectivization was attempted a number of times between 1948 and 1956 (with disastrous results), until it was finally successful in the early 1960s under János Kádár. The first serious attempt at collectivization based on Stalinist agricultural policy was undertaken in July 1948. Both economic and direct police pressure were used to coerce peasants to join cooperatives, but large numbers opted instead to leave their villages. By the early 1950s, only one-quarter of peasants had agreed to join cooperatives.\n\nIn the spring of 1955 the drive for collectivization was renewed, again using physical force to encourage membership, but this second wave also ended in dismal failure. After the events of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the Hungarian regime opted for a more gradual collectivization drive. The main wave of collectivization occurred between 1959 and 1961, and at the end of this period more than 95% of agricultural land in Hungary had become the property of collective farms. In February 1961, the Central Committee declared that collectivization had been completed.\n\nThis quick success should not be confused with enthusiastic adoption of collective idealism on the part of the peasants. Still, demoralized after two successive (and harsh) collectivization campaigns and the events of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the peasants were less keen to resist. As membership levels increased, those who remained outside likely grew worried about being permanently left out.\n\nIn Czechoslovakia, centralized land reforms after World War I allowed for the distribution of most of the land to peasants and the poor, and created large groups of relatively well-to-do farmers (though village poor still existed). These groups showed no support for communist ideals. In 1945, immediately after World War II, new land reform started with the new communist government. The first phase involved a confiscation of properties of Germans, Hungarians, and collaborators of the Nazi regime in accordance with the so-called Beneš decrees. The second phase, promulgated by so-called \"Ďuriš's laws\" (after the Communist Minister of Agriculture), in fact meant a complete revision of the pre-war land reform and tried to reduce maximal private property to 150 hectares (ha) of agricultural land and 250 ha of any land.\n\nThe third and final phase forbade possession of land above 50 ha for one family. This phase was carried out in April 1948, two months after Communists took power by force. Farms started to be collectivized, mostly under the threat of sanctions. The most obstinate farmers were persecuted and imprisoned. The most common form of collectivization was \"agricultural cooperative\" (in Czech \"Jednotné zemědělské družstvo\", JZD; in Slovak \"Jednotné roľnícke družstvo\", JRD). The collectivization was implemented in three stages (1949–1952, 1953–1956, 1956–1969) and officially ended with implementation of the constitution establishing the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, which made private ownership illegal.\n\nMany early cooperatives collapsed and were recreated again. Their productivity was low since they provided tiny salaries and no pensions, and they failed to create a sense of collective ownership; small-scale pilfering was common, and food became scarce. Seeing the massive outflow of people from agriculture into cities, the government started to massively subsidize the cooperatives in order to make the standard of living of farmers equal to that of city inhabitants; this was the long-term official policy of the government. Funds, machinery, and fertilizers were provided; young people from villages were forced to study agriculture; and students were regularly sent (involuntarily) to help in cooperatives.\n\nSubsidies and constant pressure destroyed the remaining private farmers; only a handful of them remained after the 1960s. The lifestyle of villagers had eventually reached the level of cities, and village poverty was eliminated. Czechoslovakia was again able to produce enough food for its citizens. The price of this success was a huge waste of resources because the cooperatives had no incentive to improve efficiency. Every piece of land was cultivated regardless of the expense involved, and the soil became heavily polluted with chemicals. Also, the intensive use of heavy machinery damaged topsoil. Furthermore, the cooperatives were infamous for over-employment.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the economy of Czechoslovakia stagnated, and the state-owned companies were unable to deal with advent of modern technologies. A few agricultural companies (where the rules were less strict than in state companies) used this situation to start providing high-tech products. For example, the only way to buy a PC-compatible computer in the late 1980s was to get it (for an extremely high price) from one agricultural company acting as a reseller.\n\nAfter the fall of Communism in Czechoslovakia (1989) subsidies to agriculture were halted with devastating effect. Most of the cooperatives had problems competing with technologically advanced foreign competition and were unable to obtain investment to improve their situation. Quite a large percentage of them collapsed. The others that remained were typically insufficiently funded, lacking competent management, without new machinery and living from day to day. Employment in the agricultural sector dropped significantly (from approximately 25% of the population to approximately 1%).\n\nCollective farms obtained the name Landwirtschaftliche Produktionsgenossenschaft (LPG).\n\nThe Polish name of a collective farm was Rolnicza spółdzielnia produkcyjna. Collectivisation in Poland was stopped in 1956, later nationalisation was supported.\n\nCollective farming was introduced as government policy throughout Yugoslavia after World War II, by taking away land from wealthy pre-war owners and limiting possessions in private ownership first to 25, and later to 10 hectares. The large, state-owned farms were known as \"Agricultural cooperatives\" (\"Zemljoradničke zadruge\" in Serbo-Croatian) and farmers working on them had to meet production quotas in order to satisfy the needs of the populace. This system was largely abolished in the 1950s. See: Law of 23 August 1945 with amendments until 1 December 1948.\n\nUnder the leadership of Mao Zedong (1949–1976), the People's Republic of China experienced an era of collectivization. Similar to Stalin's ideals, Mao tried to rapidly convert the Chinese economy to a socialist society through industrialization and collectivization, in a period known as, \"The Great Leap Forward.\" The era was a disaster for the Chinese people, due to the inability of the farmers to meet quota expectations, which caused \"The Great Chinese Famine,\" where nearly 30 million people died of hunger.\n\nAfter the death of Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping reformed the collective farming method. From this time, nearly all Chinese crops began to blossom, not just grain. The reform included the removal of land from rich land owners for use of agricultural land for peasants, but not ownership. This policy increased production and helped reverse the effects of The Great Leap Forward. The two main reasons why China succeeded was because 1) the government chose to make gradual changes, which kept the monopoly of the Communist Party and 2) because the reform process began from the bottom and later expanded to the top. Throughout the reform process, the Communist Party reacted positively to the bottom-up reform initiatives that emerged from the rural population. Deng Xiaoping described the reform process as, \"fording the river by feeling for the stones.\" This statement refers to the Chinese people who called for the reforms they wanted, by \"placing the stones at his feet\" and he would then just approve the reforms the people wanted. The peasants started their own \"household responsibility system\" apart from the government. After Chinese trade was privately deemed successful, all Xiaoping had to do was approve its legalization. This increased competition between farmers domestically and internationally, meaning the low wage working class began to be known worldwide, increasing the Chinese FDI.\n\nA 2017 study found that Chinese peasants slaughtered massive numbers of draft animals as a response to collectivization, as this would allow them to keep the meat and hide, and not transfer the draft animals to the collectives. The study estimates that \"the animal loss during the movement was 12 to 15 percent, or 7.4-9.5 million dead. Grain output dropped by 7 percent due to lower animal inputs and lower productivity.\"\n\nIn the late 1990s, the collective farming system collapsed under a strain of droughts. Estimates of deaths due to starvation ranged into the millions, although the government did not allow outside observers to survey the extent of the famine. Aggravating the severity of the famine, the government was accused of diverting international relief supplies to its armed forces. Agriculture in North Korea has suffered tremendously from natural disasters, a lack of fertile land, and government mismanagement, often causing the nation to rely on foreign aid as its primary source of food.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Vietnam implemented collective farming although \"de jure\" private ownership existed. Starting in 1958 collective farming was pushed such that by 1960, 85% of farmers and 70% of farmlands were collectivized including those seized by force. Collectivization however was seen by the communist leadership as a half-measure when compared to full state ownership.\n\nFollowing the Fall of Saigon on 30 April 1975, South Vietnam briefly came under the authority of a Provisional Revolutionary Government, a puppet state under military occupation by North Vietnam, before being officially reunified with the North under Communist rule as the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on 2 July 1976. Upon taking control, the Vietnamese communists banned other political parties, arrested suspects believed to have collaborated with the United States and embarked on a mass campaign of collectivization of farms and factories. Private land ownership was \"transformed\" to subsume under State and collective ownership. Reconstruction of the war-ravaged country was slow and serious humanitarian and economic problems confronted the communist regime.\n\nIn a historic shift in 1986, the Communist Party of Vietnam implemented free-market reforms known as (\"Renovation\"). With the authority of the state remaining unchallenged, private enterprise, deregulation and foreign investment were encouraged. Land ownership nonetheless is the sole prerogative of the state. The economy of Vietnam has achieved rapid growth in agricultural and industrial production, construction and housing, exports and foreign investment. However, the power of the Communist Party of Vietnam over all organs of government remains firm.\n\nIn the initial years that followed the Cuban Revolution, government authorities experimented with agricultural and farming production cooperatives. Between 1977 and 1983, farmers began to collectivize into CPAs – (Agricultural Production Cooperatives). Farmers were encouraged to sell their land to the state for the establishment of a cooperative farm, receiving payments for a period of 20 years while also sharing in the fruits of the CPA. Joining a CPA allowed individuals who were previously dispersed throughout the countryside to move to a centralized location with increased access to electricity, medical care, housing, and schools. Democratic practice tends to be limited to business decisions and is constrained by the centralized economic planning of the Cuban system.\n\nAnother type of agricultural production cooperative in Cuba is UBPC – \"Unidad Básica de Producción Cooperativa\" (Basic Unit of Cooperative Production). The law authorizing the creation of UBPCs was passed on 20 September 1993. It has been used to transform many state farms into UBPCs, similar to the transformation of Russian sovkhozes (state farms) into kolkhozes (collective farms) since 1992. The law granted indefinite usufruct to the workers of the UBPC in line with its goal of linking the workers to the land. It established material incentives for increased production by tying workers' earnings to the overall production of the UBPC, and increased managerial autonomy and workers' participation in the management of the workplace.\n\nThe move to a collective farming method in Tanzania was based on the Soviet model for rural development. In 1967, President Julius Nyerere issued \"Socialism and Rural Development\" which proposed the creation of Ujamaa Villages. Since the majority of the rural population was spread out, and agriculture was traditionally undertaken individually, the rural population had to be forced to move together, to farm communally. Following forced migration, incentive to participate in communal farming activities was encouraged by government recognition.\n\nThese incentives, in addition to encouraging a degree of participation, also lured those whose primary interests were not the common good to the Ujamaa villages. This, in addition to the Order of 1973 dictating that all people had to live in villages (Operation Vijiji) eroded the sustainability of communal projects. In order for the communal farms to be successful, each member of the village would have to contribute to the best of their ability. Due to lack of sufficient foreign exchange, mechanization of the labour was impossible, therefore it was essential that every villager contributed to manual labour.\n\nIn modern Europe collective farms are very uncommon, although in France (the European Union's largest agricultural producer) cooperative agriculture represents 40% of the national food industry's production and nearly 90 Billion € in gross revenue, covering one out of three food brands in the country.\n\nThere are also intentional communities which practice collective agriculture. There is a growing number of community supported agriculture initiatives, some of which operate under consumer/worker governance, that could be considered collective farms.\n\nIn Indian villages a single field (normally a plot of three to five acres) may be farmed collectively by the villagers, who each offer labour as a devotional offering, possibly for one or two days per cropping season. The resulting crop belongs to no one individual, and is used as an offering. The labour input is the offering of the peasant in their role as priests. The wealth generated by the sale of the produce belongs to the Gods and hence is Apaurusheya or impersonal. \"Shrambhakti\" (labour contributed as devotional offering) is the key instrument for generation of internal resources. The benefits of the harvest are most often redistributed in the village for common good as well as individual need – not as loan or charity, but as divine grace (\"prasad\"). The recipient is under no obligation to repay it and no interest need be paid on such gifts. Giving and receiving of these sums is done so discreetly and with such subtle grace that any sense of inferiority on the part of the recipients is obviated. \n\nCollective farming was also implemented in kibbutzim in Israel, which began in 1909 as a unique combination of Zionism and socialism – known as Labor Zionism. The concept has faced occasional criticism as economically inefficient and over-reliant on subsidized credit.\n\nA lesser-known type of collective farm in Israel is moshav shitufi (lit. \"collective settlement\"), where production and services are managed collectively, as in a kibbutz, but consumption decisions are left to individual households. In terms of cooperative organization, moshav shitufi is distinct from the much more common moshav (or \"moshav ovdim\"), essentially a village-level service cooperative, not a collective farm.\n\nIn 2006 there were 40 moshavim shitufi'im in Israel, compared with 267 kibbutzim.\n\nCollective farming in Israel differs from collectivism in communist states in that it is voluntary. However, including moshavim, various forms of collective farming have traditionally been and remain the primary agricultural model, as there are only a small number of completely private farms in Israel outside of the moshavim.\n\nIn Mexico the Ejido system provided poor farmers with collective use rights to agricultural land.\n\nThe Anabaptist Hutterites have farmed communally since the 16th century. Most of them now live on the prairies of Canada and the northern Great Plains of the United States.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "988279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988279", "title": "Constitutional Movement", "text": "Constitutional Movement\n\nThe Constitutional Movement was a right wing political group in the United Kingdom. It was formed in 1979 by Andrew Fountaine as the National Front Constitutional Movement, a splinter group from the National Front. Offering a more moderate alternative to the NF, the Constitutional Movement claimed to have 2000 members by 1980.\n\nWithin the National Front in the late 1970s there was a growing disaffection with the leadership of John Tyndall and his associate Martin Webster and in particular their adherence to neo-Nazi principles rather than what the critics believed to be the vote-winning alternative of a more populist British nationalism. Already by 1978 Andrew Fountaine had become the focal point for a number of members of the anti-Tyndall faction and their position was strengthened by the 1979 general election in which the NF put forward the greatest number of candidates in its history but failed to make any headway with the electorate.\n\nThe party was born in a time of serious division in the British far right and competed with a number of other parties for attention. Such was the confusion at the time that party operations were even based at Excalibur House (London, EC2), which continued to be the HQ of the main NF. Fountaine had split from the NF in opposition to what he claimed was the increasing Nazism amongst the leadership, the encouragement of links with violent subcultures such as football hooliganism and Nazi skinheads as well as a strong current of homosexuality which he claimed existed amongst the leadership. The new party ambitiously launched itself as an alternative to the Conservative Party and hoped to win votes and members from the right-wing of the Tories. Like the British Democratic Party, which broke away from the NF at the time, the party sought to distance itself from the vote-losing open Nazism that both groups associated with John Tyndall, Martin Webster and the other leaders of the NF. The Movement produced its own newspaper, \"Frontline News\" as well as a magazine \"Excalibur\", the latter edited by Terry Savage, a veteran of the National Labour Party.\n\nThe party campaigned for the 1981 GLC election although the results proved disappointing and during the course of the campaign their Excalibur House HQ was damaged by a fire and a campaigner, Anthony Donnelly, was murdered in Hackney. Following this disastrous election Fountaine announced his retirement from politics, leaving the Constitutional Movement without a strong leader.\n\nThe failure of this campaign, in which the party lost out to both the original NF and the New National Front, saw the party go into decline. Not long after this the party was contacted by Tyndall, Ray Hill and Charles Parker as part of their Committee for Nationalist Unity initiative in which they were aiming to forge a united far-right group from the NNF, Hill's wing of the British Movement and other groups such as the Constitutional Movement. Although the group did not join this initiative it lost Robin May, the main organiser in the East End of London, to Tyndall's group. A number of party members followed May and joined him in attending the March 1982 meeting at Charing Cross Hotel in which Tyndall, Parker, Hill, Kenneth McKilliam and John Peacock announced the conversion of the Committee for Nationalist Unity into the British National Party.\n\nThe Constitutional Movement changed its name to the Nationalist Party soon after the formation of the BNP and under this title it contested five seats in the 1983 general election. However the Nationalist Party performed very poorly in this election and the next time the party hit the headlines was when one former member, Richard Franklin, was revealed as a Conservative candidate in local elections in 1983.\n\nThe Nationalist Party made its last appearance in a 1984 by-election in the Southgate constituency, with James Kershaw polling only 80 votes in a seat won by Michael Portillo. The party was gone soon after this, with most of the members joining the British National Party.\n\n \n\nSource\n"}
{"id": "2015645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015645", "title": "Consumer Agency (Sweden)", "text": "Consumer Agency (Sweden)\n\nSwedish Consumer Agency () is a Swedish government agency that answers to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Affairs. Its Director-General is also designated Consumer Ombudsman (\"Konsumentombudsmannen, KO\").\n\nThe agency, with a staff of around 120 located in Karlstad, provides the Swedish general public with consumer affairs assistance, acting in the collective interest of consumers. It is active in the fields of advertising and contract terms, consumer information and product safety. The task of resolving individual consumer disputes, however, is handled by the Swedish National Board for Consumer Complaints.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34602216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34602216", "title": "Equality Alabama", "text": "Equality Alabama\n\nEquality Alabama (EA) is a statewide non-profit civil rights organization that advocates for the rights of LGBTQ people in Alabama.\n\nEquality Alabama was formed by the 2002 merger of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance of Alabama and Equality Begins at Home of Central Alabama. The organization began to increase its activity prior to the 2005 referendum that banned same-sex marriage in the state. Representatives for the organization have stated that the additional visibility was in reaction to increasingly anti-gay legislation being brought forth in the state government. Proposed, but thus far not enacted, state legislation has included banning the adoption of children by LGBT people and prohibiting libraries from purchasing literature that portrays homosexuality as an acceptable lifestyle.\n\nFollowing the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" in 2003, Ken Baker of Equality Alabama told \"The New York Times\": \"Some people in our organization are very concerned about a backlash. We'll deal with it if it happens.\"\n\nIn 2014, Equality Alabama received public criticism for lacking diversity in its leadership and programs — particularly women, racial minorities, and transgender people. A former board member described a situation that arose after discussions about diversity that \"turned sour.\" In the op-ed in \"The Birmingham News\", Michael Hansen wrote, \"The conversation ended with a white man explicating that he was perfectly capable of doing the work on behalf of minorities, women and transgender people.\"\n\nIn 2005, when the state legislature voted to hold a public referendum on the Alabama Sanctity of Marriage Amendment, Equality Alabama's chair Howard Bayless said the legislators were \"meddling into the lives of families. The government is deciding what our families are and what families are made of, and to me that's unconscionable.\" Before the referendum, Equality Alabama opened offices in Montgomery and Birmingham and sponsored programs to increase LGBT visibility and attempt to sway voters. The amendment passed, however, by an 81% margin in favor of forbidding recognition of same-sex marriages and civil unions.\n\nEquality Alabama partners with other human rights organizations. It is a member of the Alabama Safe Schools Coalition, a coalition dedicated to making Alabama schools into learning environments that are free from discrimination, harassment, and violence. Equality Alabama is also a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nThe organization cosponsors the annual Vigil for Victims of Hate and Violence. The event is held to heighten awareness of the lack of hate crime legislation in Alabama that includes crimes based upon the perception of a person's sexual orientation or their gender. It is usually held on the steps of the Alabama State Capitol. Other cosponsors of the event include the Alabama chapter of the National Organization for Women, Alabama Safe Schools Coalition, Immanuel Presbyterian Church of Montgomery, the New Hope Metropolitan Community Church, the Montgomery chapter of Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays, the Southern Poverty Law Center, and the Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Montgomery.\n\nThe event was first organized after the brutal Sylacauga murder of Billy Jack Gaither, a gay man, in 1999. Gaither had his throat cut, was bludgeoned with an axe, and then his body was burned on a pile of tires. The Billy Jack Gaither Humanitarian Award recognizes \"an individual or organization that has shown extraordinary courage in the struggle against hatred and contributed to the creation of a just society.\" This award is presented each year at the vigil. The 13th annual event was held on February 20, 2011. The 14th annual event was held on February 19, 2012 at the Montgomery Union Station Train Shed, rather than the usual venue of the Capitol steps, due to stormy weather. The first Stephen Light Youth Advocacy Award was awarded during the event. The award is named in honor of Stephen Light, an Alabama LGBT advocate who died in 2011 at age 25.\n\nIn 2011 it partnered with the Human Rights Campaign, Auburn University at Montgomery's Gay–Straight Alliance, and PFLAG-Montgomery in sponsoring a \"Road To Equality\" bus tour that visited various cities around the state. It carried media presentations focusing on equal rights for LGBT people.\n\nEquality Alabama filed a friend-of-the-court brief supporting the lawsuit brought by the Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama against Alabama's 2011 anti-illegal immigration law, the Hammon-Beason Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32909471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32909471", "title": "Fabasoft eGov-Suite", "text": "Fabasoft eGov-Suite\n\nFabasoft eGov-Suite is an application software product for document and records management for the public sector. For example, the software is used to implement eGovernment in the Federal Republic of Austria.\n\nFabasoft eGov Suite was developed by Fabasoft in Linz, Austria. The software seamlessly captures files, records and documents throughout their entire life cycle (Document Lifecycle Management], up to transactional online-service.\nThe solution is used in several European public administrations and has been certified repeatedly against regional standards. Irrespective of the platform, operation in both a Windows and an Open Source environment is possible. The Fabasoft eGov Suite Web Service is available on the basis of a service orientated architecture.\n\n\nFabasoft eGov-Suite is a leading product for electronic file and process management in the German-speaking countries. The product provides a general product specification which is supplemented by general or customer-specific requirements through partners in non-German speaking countries. Currently the product is used in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Slovakia Portugal, the UK and Russia.\n\n\nThe software is available as commercial software.\n\n"}
{"id": "171885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171885", "title": "Family farm", "text": "Family farm\n\nA family farm is generally understood to be a farm owned and/or operated by a family; it is sometimes considered to be an estate passed down by inheritance. Family farm businesses can take many forms, as most farm families have structured their farm businesses as corporations, limited liability corporations, and trusts, for liability, tax, and business purposes. It is a common misconception that all farms with these business structures are not family farms, when in actuality that is not true. In the United States for example, a 2014 USDA report shows that family farms operate 90 percent of the nation’s farmland, and account for 85 percent of the country’s agricultural production value. \n\nThe concept or definition does not easily translate across languages or cultures, as there are substantial differences in the agricultural traditions and histories between countries. Thus, in the United States, a family farm can be of any size, while in Brazil, the official definition of a family farm (\"agricultura familiar\") is limited to small farms worked primarily by members of a single family.\n\nFarms that would not be considered family farms would be those operated as collectives, non-family corporations, or in other institutionalised forms.\n\nAt least 500 million of the world's [estimated] 570 million farms are managed by families, making family farms predominant in global agriculture.\n\nAn \"informal discussion of the concepts and definitions\" in a working paper published by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in 2014 reviewed English, Spanish and French definitions of the concept of \"family farm\". \nDefinitions referred to one or more of labor, management, size, provision of family livelihood, residence, family ties and generational aspects, community and social networks, subsistence orientation, patrimony, land ownership and family investment. The disparity of definitions reflects national and geographical differences in cultures, rural land tenure, and rural economies, as well as the different purposes for which definitions are coined.\n\nThe 2012 United States Census of Agriculture defines a family farm as \"any farm where the majority of the business is owned by the operator and individuals related to the operator, including relatives who do not live in the operator’s household\"; it defines a farm as \"any place from which $1,000 or more of agricultural products were produced and sold, or normally would have been sold, during a given year.\"\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations defines a \"family farm\" as one that relies primarily on family members for labour and management.\n\nIn some usages, \"family farm\" implies that the farm remains within the ownership of a family over a number of generations.\n\nBeing special-purpose definitions, the definitions found in laws or regulations may differ substantially from commonly understood meanings of \"family farm\". For example, In the United States, under federal Farm Ownership loan regulations, the definition of a \"family farm\" does not specify the nature of farm ownership, and management of the farm is either by the borrower, or by members operating the farm when a loan is made to a corporation, co-operative or other entity. The complete definition can be found in the US Code of Federal Regulations 7 CFR 1943.4.\n\nIn the Roman Republic, \"latifundia\", great landed estates, specialised in agriculture destined for export, producing grain, olive oil, or wine, corresponding largely to modern industrialized agriculture but depending on slave labour instead of mechanization, developed after the Second Punic War and increasingly replaced the former system of family-owned small or intermediate farms in the Roman Empire period. The basis of the latifundia in Spain and Sicily was the \"ager publicus\" that fell to the dispensation of the state through Rome's policy of war in the 1st century BC and the 1st century AD.\n\nIn the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, the largely self-sufficient villa-system of the latifundia remained among the few political-cultural centres of a fragmented Europe. These latifundia had been of great importance economically, until the long-distance shipping of wine and oil, grain and \"garum\" disintegrated, but extensive lands controlled in a single pair of hands still constituted \"power\": it can be argued that the latifundia formed part of the economic basis of the European social feudal system, taking the form of Manorialism, the essential element of feudal society, and the organizing principle of rural economy in medieval Europe.\nManorialism was characterised by the vesting of legal and economic power in a Lord of the Manor, supported economically from his own direct landholding in a manor (sometimes called a fief), and from the obligatory contributions of a legally subject part of the peasant population under the jurisdiction of himself and his manorial court. \nManorialism died slowly and piecemeal, along with its most vivid feature in the landscape, the open field system. \nIt outlasted serfdom as it outlasted feudalism: \"primarily an economic organization, it could maintain a warrior, but it could equally well maintain a capitalist landlord. It could be self-sufficient, yield produce for the market, or it could yield a money rent.\" The last feudal dues in France were abolished at the French Revolution. In parts of eastern Germany, the \"Rittergut\" manors of Junkers remained until World War II.\nThe common law of the leasehold estate relation evolved in medieval England. That law still retains many archaic terms and principles pertinent to a feudal social order. Under the tenant system, a farm may be worked by the same family over many generations, but what is inherited is not the farm's estate itself but the lease on the estate.\nIn much of Europe, serfdom was abolished only in the modern period, in Western Europe after the French Revolution, in Russia as late as in 1861.\n\nIn contrast to the Roman system of \"latifundia\" and the derived system of manoralism, the Germanic peoples had a system based on heritable estates owned by individual families or clans. \nThe Germanic term for \"heritable estate, allodium\" was \"*ōþalan\" (Old English \"ēþel\"), which incidentally was also used as a rune name; the gnomic verse on this term in the Anglo-Saxon rune poem reads:\n\nIn the inheritance system known as Salic patrimony (also \"gavelkind\" in its exceptional survival in medieval Kent)\nrefers to this clan-based possession of real estate property, particularly in Germanic context. \"Terra salica\" could not be sold or otherwise disposed; it was not alienable. \nMuch of Germanic Europe has a history of overlap or conflict between the feudal system of manoralism, where the estate is owned by noblemen and leased to the tenants or worked by serfs, and the Germanic system of free farmers working landed estates heritable within their clan or family. Historical prevalence of the Germanic system of independent estates or \"Höfe\" resulted in dispersed settlement (\"Streusiedlung\") structure, as opposed to the village-centered settlements of manoralism.\nIn German-speaking Europe, farming estates are known as \"Hof\"; \nthis German word notably has the meaning of both \"farming estate\" and \"royal court\", in origin referring to the building or hall at the center of any independent estate. \nThe recharacterized compound \"Bauernhof\" was formed in the early modern period to designate family farming estates, while \"Meierhof\" designated a manorial estate, and the unmarked term \"Hof\" was increasingly used for the royal or noble court.\nThe estate as a whole is referred to by the collective \"Gehöft\" (15th century); the corresponding Slavic concept being \"Khutor\".\n\"Höfeordnung\" is the German legal term for the inheritance laws regarding family farms, deriving from inheritance under medieval Saxon law. \nIn England, the title of yeoman was applied to such land-owning commoners from the 15th century.\n\nIn the early modern and modern period, the dissolution of manoralism went parallel to the development of intensive farming parallel to the Industrial Revolution. Mechanization enabled the cultivation of much larger areas than what was typical for the traditional estates aimed at subsistence farming, resulting in the emergence of a smaller number of large farms, with the displaced population partly contributing to the new class of industrial wage-labourers and partly emigrating to the New World or the Russian Empire (following the 1861 emancipation of the serfs). The family farms established in Imperial Russia were again collectivized under the Soviet Union, but the emigration of European farmers displaced by the Industrial Revolution contributed to the emergence of a system of family estates in the Americas (Homestead Act 1862).\n\nThomas Jefferson's argument that a large number of family estates are a factor in ensuring the stability of democracy was repeatedly used in support of subsidies.\n\nIn developed countries the family farm is viewed sentimentally, as a lifestyle to be preserved for tradition's sake, or as a birthright. It is in these nations very often a political rallying cry against change in agricultural policy, most commonly in France, Japan, and the United States, where rural lifestyles are often regarded as desirable. In these countries, strange bedfellows can often be found arguing for similar measures despite otherwise vast differences in political ideology. For example, Pat Buchanan and Ralph Nader, both candidates for the office of President of the United States, held rural rallies together and spoke for measures to preserve the so-called family farm. On other economic matters they were seen as generally opposed, but found common ground on this one.\n\nThe social roles of family farms are much changed today. Until recently, staying in line with traditional and conservative sociology, the heads of the household were usually the oldest man followed closely by his oldest sons. The wife generally took care of the housework, child rearing, and financial matters pertaining to the farm. However, agricultural activities have taken on many forms and change over time. Agronomy, horticulture, aquaculture, silviculture, and apiculture, along with traditional plants and animals, all make up aspects of today's family farm. Farm wives often need to find work away from the farm to supplement farm income and children sometimes have no interest in farming as their chosen field of work.\n\nBolder promoters argue that as agriculture has become more efficient with the application of modern management and new technologies in each generation, the idealized classic family farm is now simply obsolete, or more often, unable to compete without the economies of scale available to larger and more modern farms. Advocates argue that family farms in all nations need to be protected, as the basis of rural society and social stability.\n\nAccording to the United States Department of Agriculture, ninety-eight percent of all farms in the U.S. are family farms. Two percent of farms are not family farms, and those two percent make up fourteen percent of total agricultural output in the United States, although half of them have total sales of less than $50,000 per year. Overall, ninety-one percent of farms in the United States are considered \"small family farms\" (with sales of less than $250,000 per year), and those farms produce twenty-seven percent of U.S. agricultural output.\n\nDepending on the type and size of independently owned operation, some limiting factors are:\n\nOver the 20th century, the people of developed nations have collectively taken most of the steps down the path to this situation. Individual farmers opted for successive waves of new technology, happily \"trading in their horses for a tractor\", increasing their debt and their production capacity. This in turn required larger, more distant markets, and heavier and more complex financing. The public willingly purchased increasingly commoditized, processed, shipped and relatively inexpensive food. The availability of an increasingly diverse supply of fresh, uncured, unpreserved produce and meat in all seasons of the year (oranges in January, freshly killed steers in July, fresh pork rather than salted, smoked, or potassium-impregnated ham) opened an entirely new cuisine and an unprecedented healthy diet to millions of consumers who had never enjoyed such produce before. These abilities also brought to market an unprecedented variety of processed foods, such as corn syrup and bleached flour. For the family farm this new technology and increasingly complex marketing strategy has presented new and unprecedented challenges, and not all family farmers have been able to effectively cope with the changing market conditions.\n\nIn the last few decades there has been a resurgence of interest in organic and free range foods. A percentage of consumers have begun to question the viability of industrial agriculture practices and have turned to organic groceries that sell products produced on family farms including not only meat and produce but also such things as wheat germ breads and natural lye soaps (as opposed to bleached white breads and petroleum based detergent bars). Others buy these products direct from family farms. The \"new family farm\" provides an alternative market in some localities with an array of traditionally and naturally produced products.\n\nSuch \"organic\" and \"free-range\" farming is attainable where a significant number of affluent urban and suburban consumers willingly pay a premium for the ideals of \"locally produced produce\" and \"humane treatment of animals\". Sometimes, these farms are hobby or part-time ventures, or supported by wealth from other sources. Viable farms on a scale sufficient to support modern families at an income level commensurate with urban and suburban upper-middle-class families are often large scale operations, both in area and capital requirements. These farms, family owned and operated in a technologically and economically conventional manner, produce crops and animal products oriented to national and international markets, rather than to local markets. In assessing this complex economic situation, it is important to consider all sources of income available to these farms; for instance, the millions of dollars in farm subsidies which the United States government offers each year. As fuel prices rise, foods shipped to national and international markets are already rising in price.\n\nIn 2012, the United States had 2,039,093 family farms (as defined by USDA), accounting for 97 percent of all farms and 89 percent of census farm area in the United States.\n\nBecause of the predominance of family farms, the types of farming conducted on US family farms are essentially those of US agriculture overall. A USDA survey conducted in 2011 estimated that family farms account for 85 percent of US farm production and 85 percent of US gross farm income. Mid-size and larger family farms account for 60 percent of US farm production and dominate US production of cotton, cash grain and hogs. Small family farms account for 26 percent of US farm production overall, and higher percentages of production of poultry, beef cattle, some other livestock and hay.\n\nSeveral kinds of US family farms are recognized in USDA farm typology:\n\nSmall family farms are defined as those with annual gross cash farm income (GCFI) of less than $350,000; in 2011, these accounted for 90 percent of all US farms. Because low net farm incomes tend to predominate on such farms, most farm families on small family farms are extremely dependent on off-farm income. \nSmall family farms in which the principal operator was mostly employed off-farm accounted for 42 percent of all farms and 15 percent of total US farm area; median net farm income was $788. \nRetirement family farms were small farms accounting for 16 percent of all farms and 7 percent of total US farm area; median net farm income was $5,002.\n\nThe other small family farm categories are those in which farming occupies at least 50 percent of the principal operator’s working time. These are:\n\nLow-sales small family farms (with GCFI less than $150,000); 26 percent of all US farms, 18 percent of total US farm area, median net farm income $3,579.\n\nModerate-sales small family farms (with GCFI of $150,000 to $349,999); 5.44 percent of all US farms, 13 percent of total US farm area, median net farm income $67,986.\n\nMid-size family farms (GCFI of $350,000 to $999,999); 6 percent of all US farms, 22 percent of total US farm area; median net farm income $154,538.\n\nLarge family farms (GCFI $1,000,000 to $4,999,999); 2 percent of all US farms, 14 percent of total US farm area; median net farm income $476,234.\n\nVery large family farms (GCFI over $5,000,000); <1 percent of all US farms, 2 percent of total US farm area; median net farm income $1,910,454.\n\nFamily farms include not only sole proprietorships and family partnerships, but also family corporations. Family-owned corporations account for 5 percent of all farms and 89 percent of corporate farms in the United States. About 98 percent of US family corporations owning farms are small, with no more than 10 shareholders; average net farm income of family corporate farms was $189,400 in 2012. (In contrast, 90 percent of US non-family corporations owning farms are small, having no more than 10 shareholders; average net cash farm income for US non-family corporate farms was $270,670 in 2012.)\n\nIn Canada, the number of \"family farms\" cannot be inferred closely, because of the nature of census data, which do not distinguish family and non-family farm partnerships. In 2011, of Canada’s 205,730 farms, 55 percent were sole proprietorships, 25 percent were partnerships, 17 percent were family corporations, 2 percent were non-family corporations and <1 percent were other categories. Because some but not all partnerships involve family members, these data suggest that family farms account for between about 73 and 97 percent of Canadian farms. The family farm percentage is likely to be near the high end of this range, for two reasons. The partners in a [Canadian] farm partnership are typically spouses, often forming the farm partnership for tax reasons. Also, as in the US, family farm succession planning can use a partnership as a means of apportioning family farm tenure among family members when a sole proprietor is ready to transfer some or all of ownership and operation of a farm to offspring. Conversion of a sole proprietorship family farm to a family corporation may also be influenced by legal and financial, e.g. tax, considerations. The Canadian Encyclopedia estimates that more than 90 percent of Canadian farms are family operations. In 2006, of Canadian farms with more than one million dollars in annual gross farm receipts, about 63 percent were family corporations and 13 percent were non-family corporations.\n\nAnalysis of data for 59,000 farms in the 12 member states of the European Community found that in 1989, about three-quarters of the farms were family farms, producing just over half of total agricultural output.\n\nAs of 2010, there were approximately 139,900 family farms in Ireland, with an average size of 35.7 hectares per holding. (Nearly all farms in Ireland are family farms.) In Ireland, average family farm income was 25,483 euros in 2012. Analysis by Teagasc (Ireland’s Agriculture and Food Development Authority) estimates that 37 percent of Irish farms are economically viable and an additional 30 percent are sustainable due to income from off-farm sources; 33 percent meet neither criterion and are considered economically vulnerable.\n\nIn Brazil, there are about 4.37 million family farms. These account for 84.4 percent of farms, 24.3 percent of farmland area and 37.5 percent of the value of agricultural production.\n\nIn sub-Saharan Africa, 80% of farms are family owned and worked.\n\nSub-Saharan agriculture was mostly defined by slash-and-burn subsistence farming, historically spread by the Bantu expansion. \nPermanent farming estates were established during colonialism, in the 19th to 20th century. \nAfter decolonisation, white farmers in some African countries have tended to be attacked, killed or evicted, notably in South Africa and Zimbabwe.\n\nIn southern Africa, \"On peasant family farms ..., cash input costs are very low, non‐household labour is sourced largely from communal work groups through kinship ties, and support services needed to sustain production are minimal.\" On commercial family farms, \"cash input costs are high, little non‐family labour is used and strong support services are necessary.\"\n\nAt the 66th session of the United Nations General Assembly, 2014 was formally declared to be the \"International Year of Family Farming\" (IYFF). The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations was invited to facilitate its implementation, in collaboration with Governments, International Development Agencies, farmers' organizations and other relevant organizations of the United Nations system as well as relevant non-governmental organizations.\n\nThe goal of the 2014 IYFF is to reposition family farming at the centre of agricultural, environmental and social policies in the national agendas by identifying gaps and opportunities to promote a shift towards a more equal and balanced development. The 2014 IYFF will promote broad discussion and cooperation at the national, regional and global levels to increase awareness and understanding of the challenges faced by smallholders and help identify efficient ways to support family farmers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56413821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413821", "title": "Fetal tissue in vaccines", "text": "Fetal tissue in vaccines\n\nThe use of fetal tissue in vaccines began in the 1930s. One of the first medical applications of fetal tissues was their use in the production of the first polio vaccines. For example, in the 1950s, scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden propagated a polio virus in fetal cells to make into a polio vaccine. The resulting vaccine was given to about 2,000 children. Such tissues are no longer used in polio vaccine development. Many other vaccines, including those for chicken pox and rubella, are made using fetal tissue from two pregnancies terminated in the early 1960s. The same fibroblast cells from these pregnancies that were originally used to grow vaccine viruses have been growing in labs ever since, as the WI-38 and MRC-5 cell lines. They are still used to grow vaccine viruses today. As of March 2017, at least 300 million vaccines have been given that were made using the WI-38 line alone.\n\nVaccines that have been or are made using fetal tissue for the propagation of viruses include:\nOf these, the vaccines approved for use in the United States include some of those against rabies (Imovax), rubella, chicken pox, shingles, and adenovirus (as of January 2017).\nDespite the Vatican's longstanding and complete opposition to abortion, their Pontifical Academy for Life concluded in 2005 that parents should allow their children to receive vaccines made from fetal tissue, to protect them from infectious diseases. The Academy also called for the development of new vaccines that can be made by other means. Similarly, the National Catholic Bioethics Center states on its website that \"...one is morally free to use the vaccine regardless of its historical association with abortion. The reason is that the risk to public health, if one chooses not to vaccinate, outweighs the legitimate concern about the origins of the vaccine...\"\nLeonard Hayflick, the scientist who created the WI-38 cell line, provoked a legal battle with the National Institutes of Health when he took stocks of them from his lab and shipped them to people for money.\n"}
{"id": "11815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11815", "title": "Food additive", "text": "Food additive\n\nFood additives are substances added to food to preserve flavor or enhance its taste, appearance, or other qualities. Some additives have been used for centuries; for example, preserving food by pickling (with vinegar), salting, as with bacon, preserving sweets or using sulfur dioxide as with wines. With the advent of processed foods in the second half of the twentieth century, many more additives have been introduced, of both natural and artificial origin. Food additives also include substances that may be introduced to food indirectly (called \"indirect additives\") in the manufacturing process, through packaging, or during storage or transport.\n\nTo regulate these additives, and inform consumers, each additive is assigned a unique number, termed as \"E numbers\", which is used in Europe for all approved additives. This numbering scheme has now been adopted and extended by the \"Codex Alimentarius\" Commission to internationally identify all additives, regardless of whether they are approved for use.\n\nE numbers are all prefixed by \"E\", but countries outside Europe use only the number, whether the additive is approved in Europe or not.\nFor example, acetic acid is written as E260 on products sold in Europe, but is simply known as additive 260 in some countries. Additive 103, alkannin, is not approved for use in Europe so does not have an E number, although it is approved for use in Australia and New Zealand. Since 1987, Australia has had an approved system of labelling for additives in packaged foods. Each food additive has to be named or numbered. The numbers are the same as in Europe, but without the prefix \"E\".\n\nThe United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lists these items as \"generally recognized as safe\" (GRAS); they are listed under both their Chemical Abstracts Service number and FDA regulation under the United States Code of Federal Regulations.\n\nFood additives can be divided into several groups, although there is some overlap because some additives exert more than one effect. For example, salt is both a preservative as well as a flavor.\n\n\n\nWith the increasing use of processed foods since the 19th century, food additives are more widely used. Many countries regulate their use. For example, boric acid was widely used as a food preservative from the 1870s to the 1920s, but was banned after World War I due to its toxicity, as demonstrated in animal and human studies. During World War II, the urgent need for cheap, available food preservatives led to it being used again, but it was finally banned in the 1950s. Such cases led to a general mistrust of food additives, and an application of the precautionary principle led to the conclusion that only additives that are known to be safe should be used in foods. In the United States, this led to the adoption of the Delaney clause, an amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938, stating that no carcinogenic substances may be used as food additives. However, after the banning of cyclamates in the United States and Britain in 1969, saccharin, the only remaining legal artificial sweetener at the time, was found to cause cancer in rats. Widespread public outcry in the United States, partly communicated to Congress by postage-paid postcards supplied in the packaging of sweetened soft drinks, led to the retention of saccharin, despite its violation of the Delaney clause. However, in 2000, saccharin was found to be carcinogenic in rats due only to their unique urine chemistry.\n\nPeriodically, concerns have been expressed about a linkage between additives and hyperactivity, however \"no clear evidence of ADHD was\nprovided\".\n\nIn 2007, Food Standards Australia New Zealand published an official shoppers' guidance with which the concerns of food additives and their labeling are mediated. In the EU it can take 10 years or more to obtain approval for a new food additive. This includes five years of safety testing, followed by two years for evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority and another three years before the additive receives an EU-wide approval for use in every country in the European Union. Apart from testing and analyzing food products during the whole production process to ensure safety and compliance with regulatory standards, Trading Standards officers (in the UK) protect the public from any illegal use or potentially dangerous mis-use of food additives by performing random testing of food products.\n\nThere has been significant controversy associated with the risks and benefits of food additives. Natural additives may be similarly harmful or be the cause of allergic reactions in certain individuals. For example, safrole was used to flavor root beer until it was shown to be carcinogenic. Due to the application of the Delaney clause, it may not be added to foods, even though it occurs naturally in sassafras and sweet basil.\n\nA subset of food additives, micronutrients added in food fortification processes preserve nutrient value by providing vitamins and minerals to foods such as flour, cereal, margarine and milk which normally would not retain such high levels. Preservatives also reduce spoilage from sources such as air, bacteria, fungi, and yeast.\n\nISO has published a series of standards regarding the topic and these standards are covered by ICS 67.220.\n\nMany food additives absorb radiation in the ultraviolet or visible regions of the spectrum. This absorbance can be used to determine the concentration of an additive in a sample using external calibration. However, additives may occur together and the absorbance by one could interfere with the absorbance of another. A prior separation stage is necessary and the additives are first separated by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and then determined on-line using a UV and/or visible light detector.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51491716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51491716", "title": "Foreign policy of Bangladesh", "text": "Foreign policy of Bangladesh\n\nForeign Policy of Bangladesh consists of self-interest strategies chosen by the Constitution of the country to safeguard its national interests and to achieve goals within its international relations milieu. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs formulates and executes the policies according to the guidance from the relevant section of the Constitution of Bangladesh.\n\nThe fundamental Foreign Policies of Bangladesh originate from the article no. 25 of the Constitution of Bangladesh:\n\nThe State shall base its international relations on the principles of respect for national sovereignty and equality, non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries, peaceful settlements of international disputes, and respect for international law and the principles enunciated in the United Nations Charter, and on the basis of those principles shall-\n"}
{"id": "26604623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26604623", "title": "Gender Recognition Panel", "text": "Gender Recognition Panel\n\nThe Gender Recognition Panel is a tribunal in the United Kingdom dealing with transsexual and transgender concerns and allowing people to change their legal gender. It was founded as a response to the Gender Recognition Act 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162453", "title": "George Ritzer", "text": "George Ritzer\n\nGeorge Ritzer (born October 14, 1940) is an American sociologist, professor, and author who studies globalization, metatheory, patterns of consumption, and modern and postmodern social theory. His most notable contribution to date is his concept of McDonaldization, which draws upon Max Weber's idea of rationalization through the lens of the fast food industry. In addition to creating his own theories, Ritzer has also written many general sociology books, including \"Introduction to Sociology\" (2012) as well as \"Essentials to Sociology\" (2014), and modern and postmodern social theory textbooks. Currently, Ritzer is a Distinguished Professor at the University of Maryland, College Park.\n\nRitzer was born in 1940 to a Jewish family in upper Manhattan, New York City. His father and mother were employed as a taxi cab driver and secretary, respectively, in order to support him and his younger brother. Ritzer later described his upbringing as \"upper lower class\". When his father contracted a strange illness, speculated to be from his job as a taxi driver, Ritzer's mother had to break open the family's piggy bank, where they stored half dollars, in order to provide for the family. Despite dealing with some tough economic times, he never felt deprived relative to others while growing up in a \"working-class, multi-ethnic neighborhood\".\n\nGeorge Ritzer graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in 1958, stating to have \"encountered the brightest people I have ever met in my life\". While at Bronx High School of Science, Ritzer received a New York State Regents Scholarship which would follow him to whichever college he chose to attend.\n\nRitzer began his higher education at City College of New York, a free college at the time. His scholarship in addition to the free college tuition proved to be a benefit to the economic positioning of the Ritzer family. While at CCNY, Ritzer initially planned to focus on business, but he later changed his major to accounting.\nAfter graduating from CCNY in 1962, Ritzer decided that he was interested in pursuing business again. He was accepted into the M.B.A. program at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor, where he received a partial scholarship. While at Michigan, his official academic interest was human relations; however, he had many other intellectual hobbies, such as reading Russian novels. Ritzer reported that at Michigan, as he was able to grow and improve as a student. However, during his time at Michigan, he remembers being heavily involved in global events occurring at the time. He reports memories of going to the Michigan Union to watch the happenings of the Cuban Missile Crisis.\n\nAfter graduating from The University of Michigan in 1964, Ritzer began working in personnel management for the Ford Motor Company; however, this proved to be a negative experience for him. His managers mistakenly hired three people, more than was necessary, for the one job, leaving him idle and unoccupied. As he once said: \"[i]f we had two hours of work a day, it was a lot.\" Nevertheless, he was always expected to appear busy. He would constantly wander around the factory for hours observing people working, causing many of the workers and foremen to become hostile towards him. Moreover, Ritzer also found problems within the management structure at Ford. Most of the younger people with advanced degrees defied their less educated authorities. Ritzer said, \"I'd like to see a society in which people are free to be creative, rather than having their creativity constrained or eliminated.\" Furthermore, he found himself constrained and unable to do anything creative while working at Ford, encouraging him to apply to Ph.D. programs.\n\nRitzer enrolled in Cornell University's School of Labor and Industrial Relations Ph.D. program in Organizational Behavior in 1965. There, his adviser Harrison Trice suggested that he minor in sociology. After a conversation with the head of the department, Gordon Streib, Ritzer realized that he knew nothing about sociology and was then urged to read \"Broom and Selznick’s Introduction to Sociology\" and found himself enthralled with the subject matter. He continued to succeed in sociology courses at the graduate level. As a testament to his interest and dedication to the subject, he received an A+ on a 102-page paper he wrote for a course on American society. His professor stated that the paper was \"too long not to be good\". This experience as well as out-reading the other sociology students in a small seminar with Margaret Cussler allowed Ritzer to become more confident as a sociology student due to his ability to outwork the competition. He attributed his talent of being able to compete with well-read and experienced sociology students to his work ethic.\n\nAfter graduating from Cornell in 1968, Ritzer has received various academic appointments throughout his career at universities around the United States and the world:\n\n\nAlthough known as a sociologist, Ritzer never earned a degree in sociology; he was trained in psychology and business. As Ritzer said in a later interview, \"I basically trained myself as a social theorist, and so I had to learn it all as I went.\" Despite this challenge, Ritzer found that not being trained in social theory was actually advantageous for him, simply because his reasoning was not limited to a particular theoretical perspective. Listed are his biggest accomplishments in social theory:\n\nRitzer's idea of McDonaldization is an extension of Max Weber's (1864–1920) classical theory of the rationalization of modern society and culture. Weber famously used the terminology \"iron cage\" to describe the stultifying, Kafkaesque effects of bureaucratized life, and Ritzer applied this idea to an influential social system in the twenty-first century: McDonald's. Ritzer argues that McDonald's restaurants have become the better example of current forms of instrumental rationality and its ultimately irrational and harmful consequences on people\nRitzer identifies four rationalizing dimensions of McDonald's that contribute to the process of McDonaldization, claiming that McDonald's aims to increase:\n1. Efficiency: McDonald's delivers products quickly and easily without inputting an excessive amount of money. The \"McDonald's model\" and therefore the McDonald's operations follow a predesigned process that leads to a specified end, using productive means. The efficiency of the McDonald's model has infiltrated other modern day services such as completing tax forms online, easy weight loss programs, The Walt Disney Company FASTPASSes, and online dating services, eHarmony and match.com.\n2. Calculability: America has grown to connect the quantity of a product with the quality of a product and that \"bigger is better\". The \"McDonald's model\" is influential in this conception due to providing a lot of food for not that much money. While the end products feed into the connection between the quantity and quality of the product, so does the McDonald's production process. Throughout the food production, everything is standardized and highly calculated: the size of the beef patty, the amount of french fries per order, and the time spent in a franchise. The high calculability of the McDonald's franchise also extends over into academics. It is thought that the academic experience, in high school and higher education, can be quantified into one number, the GPA. Also, calculability leads to the idea that the longer the resume or list of degrees, the better the candidate, during an application process. In addition to academics being affected by the McDonaldization in society, sports, specifically basketball have also been affected. It used to be that basketball was a more laid-back, slow-paced sort of game, yet through the creation of fast-food and McDonald's, a shot clock was added to increase not only the speed of the game, but also the number of points scored. \n3. Predictability: Related to calculability, customers know what to expect from a given producer of goods or services. For example, customers know that every Big Mac from McDonald's is going to be the same as the next one; there is an understood predictability to the menu as well as the overall experience. In order to maintain the predictability for each franchise, there has to be \"discipline, order, systematization, formalization, routine, consistency, and a methodical operation\". The predictability of the McDonald's franchise also appears through the golden arches in front of every franchise as well as the scripts that the employees use on the customers. The Walt Disney Company also has regulations in place, like dress code for men and women, in order to add to the predictability of each amusement park or Disney operation. Predictability has also extended into movie sequels and TV shows. With each movie sequel, like \"Spy Kids 4\", or TV show, \"Law & Order\" and its spinoffs, the plot is predictable and usually follow a preconceived model. \n4. Control: McDonald's restaurants pioneered the idea of highly specialized tasks for all employees to ensure that all human workers are operating at exactly the same level. This is a way to keep a complicated system running smoothly; rules and regulations that make efficiency, calculability, and predictability possible. Oftentimes, the use of non-human technology, such as computers, is used. The McDonald's food is already \"pre-prepared\", the potatoes are already cut and processed, just needing to be fried and heated, and the food preparation process is monitored and tracked. The computers tell the managers how many hamburgers are needed at the lunchtime rush and other peak times and the size and shape of the pickles as well as how many go on a hamburger is managed and control. The control aspect of McDonaldization has extended to other businesses, Sylvan Learning and phone operating systems, and even birth and death. Every step of the learning process at Sylvan, the U-shaped tables and instruction manuals, is controlled as well as each step of the birthing process, in modern-day hospitals, and the process of dying.\n\nMcDonaldization is profitable, desirable, and at the cutting edge of technological advances. Many \"McDonald's\" aspects of society are beneficial to the advancement and enhancement of human life. Some claim that rationalization leads to \"more egalitarian\" societies. For example, supermarkets and large grocery stores offer variety and availability unlike smaller farmer’s markets from generations past. The McDonaldization of society also allows operations to be more productive, improve the quality of some products, and produce services and products at lower cost. The Internet has provided countless new services to people that were previously impossible, such as checking bank statements without having to go to a bank or being able to purchase things online without leaving the house. These things are all positive effects of the rationalization and McDonaldization of society.\n\nHowever, McDonaldization also alienates people and creates a disenchantment of the world. The increased standardization of society dehumanizes people and institutions. The \"assembly line\" feel of fast-food restaurants is transcending many other facets of life and removing humanity from previously human experiences. Through implementing machines and computers in society, humans can start to \"behave like machines\" and therefore \"become replaced by machines\".\n\nAn early admirer of Jean Baudrillard’s \"Consumer Society\" (1970), Ritzer is a leading proponent of the study of consumption. In addition to \"The McDonaldization of Society\", the most important sources for Ritzer’s sociology of consumption are his edited Explorations in the \"Sociology of Consumption: Fast Food Restaurants, Credit Cards and Casinos\" (2001), \"Enchanting a Disenchanted World: Revolutionizing the Means of Consumption\" (2nd edition 2005, 3rd edition 2009), and \"Expressing America: A Critique of the Global Credit-Card Society\" (1995). Ritzer is also a founding editor, with Don Slater, of Sage's \"Journal of Consumer Culture\".\n\nFirst coined by Alvin Toffler in 1980, the term prosumption is used by Ritzer and Jurgenson, to break down the false dichotomy between production and consumption and describe the dual identity of economic activities. Ritzer argues that prosumption is the primordial form of economic activities, and the current ideal separation between production and consumption is aberrant and distorted due to the effect of both Industrial Revolution and post-WWII American consumption boom. It has only recently become popularly acknowledged that the existence of prosumption as activities on the internet and Web 2.0 resemble prosumption much more so than production or consumption individually. Various online activities require the input of consumers such as Wikipedia entries, Facebook profiles, Twitter, Blog, Myspace, Amazon preferences, eBay auctions, Second Life, etc.\nRitzer argues that we should view all economic activities on a continuum of prosumption with prosumption as production (p-a-p) and prosumption as consumption (p-a-c) on each pole.\n\nAccording to Ritzer, \"Something\" is a locally conceived and controlled social form that is comparatively rich in distinctive substantive content. It also describes things as being fairly unusual. \"Nothing\" is \"a social form that is generally centrally conceived, controlled and comparatively devoid of distinctive substantive content\" \"Nothing\" usually aims at the standardized and homogenous, while \"something\" refers to things that are personal or have local flavor. Examples of \"nothing\" are McDonald's, Wal-Mart, Starbucks, credit cards, and the Internet. Examples of \"something\" are local sandwich shops, local hardware stores, family arts and crafts places, or a local breakfast cafe.\nRitzer believes that things that embody the \"nothing\" component of this dichotomy are taking over and pushing \"something\" out of society. He explains the advantages and disadvantages of both \"something\" and \"nothing\" in \"The McDonaldization of Society\".\n\nIn Ritzer's research, globalization refers to the rapidly increasing worldwide integration and interdependence of societies and cultures. This book presents a sophisticated argument about the nature of globalization in terms of the consumption of goods and services. He defines it as involving a worldwide diffusion of practices, relations, and forms of social organization and the growth of global consciousness. The concept of \"something\" vs. \"nothing\" plays a large part in understanding Ritzer's Globalization. Society is becoming bombarded with \"nothing\" and Ritzer seems to believe that the globalization of \"nothing\" is almost unstoppable Ritzer's aforementioned \"The Globalization of Nothing\" (2004/2007) stakes out a provocative perspective in the ongoing and voluminous globalization discourse. For Ritzer, globalization typically leads to consumption of vast quantities of serial social forms that have been centrally conceived and controlled – one McDonald's hamburger, i.e., one instance of nothing again and again- dominates social life (Ritzer, George. 2004. \"The Globalization of Nothing\". Thousand Oaks, CA: Pine Forge Press).\nTo better understand globalization, it can be broken down into a few characteristics:\n\nIn addition to \"The Globalization of Nothing\", Ritzer has edited \"The Blackwell Companion to Globalization\" (2007), written \"Globalization: A Basic Text\" (2009), and edited an \"Encyclopedia of Globalization\" (forthcoming). Insight into Ritzer's distinctive approach to globalization is available via a special review symposium in the Sage journal \"Thesis Eleven\" (Number 76, February 2004).\n\nIn his book \"The Globalization of Nothing\" (2004), Ritzer quotes that globalization consists of glocalization and grobalization.\nGrobalization, a term coined by Ritzer himself, refers to \"imperialistic ambitions of nations, corporations, organizations, and the like and their desire, indeed need, to impose themselves on various geographic areas\".\nAs opposite to glocalization, grobalization aims to \"overwhelm local\". Its ultimate goal is to see profit grow through unilateral homogenization, thus earning its name \"gro\"balization. Capitalism, Americanization, and McDonaldization are all parts of grobalization.\n\nGrobalization involves three motor forces: capitalism, McDonaldization, and Americanization. Grobalization creates a world where:\n1. Things are more homogenous and ubiquitous.\n2. Larger forces overwhelm the power of people to adapt and innovate in ways that preserve their autonomy.\n3. Social processes are coercive, determining the nature of local communities, which have little room to maneuver.\n4. Consumer goods and the media are key forces that largely dictate the nature of the self and the groups a person joins.\n\nRitzer provides American textbook as an example of grobalization. In his book, \"The Globalization of Nothing\", he quotes that textbooks are \"oriented to rationalizing, McDonaldizing, the communication of information.\" Students, rather than evaluating the competing ideas, instead absorb the information given to them. Yet, these textbooks are surprisingly sold out worldwide, only to be slightly revised to reflect local standards.\n\nGlocalization is a combination of the words \"globalization\" and \"localization\" used to describe a product or service that is developed and distributed globally, but is also fashioned to accommodate the user or consumer in a local market, causing the products, or results of glocalization, to vary depending on different locations. The local individuals are able to manipulate their own situation in the world and become creative agents in what products and services are represented in their local environment within the glocalized world. Ritzer further explains Glocalization as a relatively benign process that is closest to the \"something\" end of things. It creates variety and heterogeneity within society.\n\nMetatheory can be defined as the attainment of a deeper understanding of theory, the creation of new theory, and the creation of an overarching theoretical perspective. There are three types of metatheorizing: M, M, and M. Through the application of the three subsets of metatheory, Ritzer argues that the field of sociology can create a stronger foundation, experience \"rapid and dramatic growth\", and generally increase not only the knowledge of metatheory but social theory in general.\n\nThe first category of metatheory (M), aims at being a means of attaining a deeper understanding of theory. Within the greater category of M, Ritzer establishes four other subsets: internal-intellectual, internal-social, external-intellectual, and external-social. The internal-intellectual sector of M identifies the \"schools of thought\" and the structure of current sociologists and social theories. The internal-social subtype identifies connections between sociologists and connections between sociologists and society. The last two subsets of M are looking more at the macrolevel of sociology than the other two subsets. The third subtype of M is the external-intellectual view of sociology; it looks at different studies and their concepts, tools, and ideas in order to apply these aspects to sociology. The fourth, and final, subset is external-social where the impact of social theory in a larger societal setting is studied.\n\nThe second (M), aims at being a prelude to theory development. New social theory is created due to the complex study and interpretation of other sociologists. For example, Karl Marx's theories are based on Hegel's theories. The theories of the American sociologist, Talcott Parsons, are based on the theories of Émile Durkheim, Max Weber, Vilfredo Pareto, and Thomas Humphrey Marshall.\n\nThe last (M), aims at being a source of perspectives that overarch sociological theory. Influenced by Thomas Kuhn’s \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" (1962), Ritzer has long advocated the view that social theory is improved by systematic, comparative and reflexive attention to implicit conceptual structures and oft-hidden assumptions.\n\nKey works include \"Sociology: A Multiple Paradigm Science\" (1975), \"Toward an Integrated Sociological Paradigm\" (1981), \"Metatheorizing in Sociology\" (1991), and \"Explorations in Social Theory: From Metatheorizing to Rationalization\" (2001). See also Ritzer’s edited \"Metatheorizing\" (1992).\n\nRitzer is known to generations of students as the author of numerous comprehensive introductions and compendia in social theory. Postmodern society is a consumer society that invents new means of consumption, such as credit cards, shopping malls, and shopping networks. Today, \"Capitalism needs us to keep on spending at ever-increasing levels to be and remain capitalism.\" As with several of Ritzer’s other principal works, many are translated into languages as diverse as Chinese, Russian, Persian, Hebrew and Portuguese. Key volumes in this genre include \"The Sociological Theory\" (7th edition 2008), \"Classical Sociological Theory\" (5th edition 2008), and \"Modern Sociological Theory\" (7th edition 2008), \"Encyclopedia of Social Theory\" (2 vols. 2005), and \"Postmodern Social Theory\" (1997). For convenient access to many of Ritzer’s substantive contributions to modern and postmodern social theorizing, see \"Explorations in Social Theory: From Metatheorizing to Rationalization\" (2001) as well as more recent work often co-authored with his many students, such as (with J. Michael Ryan) \"Postmodern Social Theory and Sociology: On Symbolic Exchange with a ‘Dead’ Theory,\" in \"Reconstructing Postmodernism: Critical Debates\" (2007).\n\nGeorge Ritzer has published many monographs and textbooks. He has edited three encyclopedias, including the \"Blackwell Encyclopedia of Sociology\". He has written approximately one hundred scholarly articles in respected journals.\n\nBased on his original article appearing in the \"American Sociologist\", this book provides a foundation for Ritzer’s other works on metatheory. The piece applies Thomas Kuhn's idea of scientific paradigms to sociology and demonstrating that sociology is a science consisting of multiple paradigms. Ritzer also discusses what implications this has for the field of sociology.\n\nIn this book, Ritzer contends that sociology needs an integrated paradigm in order to add to the extant paradigms noted in \"Sociology: A Multiple Paradigm Science\". Ritzer proposes an integrated paradigm dealing with the interrelationships between the many levels of social reality.\n\nIn this provocative book, George Ritzer explores how Weber's classic thoughts on rationalization take on new vitality and meaning when applied to the process of McDonaldization. He describes this as the process by which the principles of the fast food restaurants are coming to dominate more and more sectors of society in the United States as well as the rest of the world.\n\nRitzer shows how Weber's central characteristics of rationalized systems - efficiency, predictability, calculability, substitution of non-human for human technology and control over uncertainty - have found widespread expression in a broad range of organized human activity, including travel, consumer products and services, education, leisure, politics and religion as well as in the fast food industry.\n\nGuide to thirteen leading social theorists: Robert K. Merton, Erving Goffman, Richard M. Emerson, James Coleman, Harold Garfinkel, Daniel Bell, Norbert Elias, Michel Foucault, Jürgen Habermas, Anthony Giddens, Pierre Bourdieu, Jean Baudrillard, Judith Butler.\n\nRitzer's \"McDonaldization of Society\", now celebrating its 20th anniversary, continues to stand as one of the pillars of modern-day sociological thought. By linking theory to 21st-century culture, this book resonates with audiences in a way that few other books do, opening their eyes to many current issues, especially in consumption and globalization. As in previous editions, the book has been updated and it offers new discussions of, among others, In-N-Out Burger and Pret a Manger as possible antitheses of McDonaldization. The biggest change, however, is that the book has been streamlined to offer an even clearer articulation of the McDonaldization thesis. The final chapter also looks at \"The DeMcDonaldization of Society\", and concludes that while it is occurring on the surface, McDonaldization is alive and well.\n\n\"The Globalization of Nothing\", Second Edition emphasizes the processes of globalization and how they relate to McDonaldization. As before, this book is structured around four sets of concepts addressing the issues of: \"places/non-places,\" \"things/non-things,\" \"people/non-people,\" and \"services/non-services.\" By drawing upon salient examples from everyday life, Ritzer invites the reader to examine the nuances of these concepts in conjunction with the paradoxes within the process of the globalization of nothing. Critical questions are raised throughout, and the reader is compelled not only to seek answers to these questions, but also to critically evaluate the questions as well as their answers. The current edition features a greater emphasis on the main topic of globalization: a new first chapter offers an introductory overview of globalization and globalization theory, outlining the unique ways in which these topics are addressed throughout the text. It also delves into two subprocesses of globalization — \"glocalization\" and \"grobalization.\"\n\n\"Enchanting a Disenchanted World\", Third Edition examines Disney, malls, cruise lines, Las Vegas, the World Wide Web, McDonald's, Planet Hollywood, credit cards, and all the other ways we now consume. The current edition was updated to reflect the recent economic recession and the impact of the internet. Ritzer continues to explore this book’s central thesis: that our society has undergone fundamental change because of the way and the level at which we consume. The third edition demonstrates how we have created new \"cathedrals\" of consumption (places that enchant us so as to entice us to stay longer and consume more) while continuing to take capitalism to a new level. These places of consumption, whether in our homes, the mall, or cyberspace, are in a constant state of \"enchanting the disenchanted,\" luring us through new spectacles because their rational qualities are both necessary and deadening at the same time. The book also includes a wide range of theoretical perspectives — Marxian, Weberian, critical theory, postmodern theory — as well as a number of concepts such as hyperconsumption, implosion, simulation, and time and space to show the audience how sociological theory can be applied to everyday phenomena.\n\nGeorge Ritzer has held notable positions of leadership, including \nAward Committee\nPresent Positions: Editor, Blackwell Encyclopedia of Sociology ● Editor, Journal of Consumer Culture ● Associate Editor, Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change ● Editorial Board, Sociology Analysis ● Consulting Editor: St. Martin Press/Worth, Series on Contemporary Social Issues; Sage of England, Series on Cultural Icons; McGraw-Hill.\n\n\nRitzer and his wife, Sue (married 1963), have two children and five grandchildren. Despite being a workaholic, he has always made time for his family. Ritzer also loves to travel, oftentimes using the work trips as a time for a mini vacation with his wife.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39540142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39540142", "title": "Gezi Park protests", "text": "Gezi Park protests\n\nA wave of demonstrations and civil unrest in Turkey began on 28 May 2013, initially to contest the urban development plan for Istanbul's Taksim Gezi Park. The protests were sparked by outrage at the violent eviction of a sit-in at the park protesting the plan. Subsequently, supporting protests and strikes took place across Turkey, protesting a wide range of concerns at the core of which were issues of freedom of the press, of expression, assembly, and the government's encroachment on Turkey's secularism. With no centralised leadership beyond the small assembly that organized the original environmental protest, the protests have been compared to the Occupy movement and the May 1968 events. Social media played a key part in the protests, not least because much of the Turkish media downplayed the protests, particularly in the early stages. Three and a half million people (out of Turkey's population of 80 million) are estimated to have taken an active part in almost 5,000 demonstrations across Turkey connected with the original Gezi Park protest. Twenty-two people were killed and more than 8,000 were injured, many critically.\n\nThe sit-in at Taksim Gezi Park was restored after police withdrew from Taksim Square on 1 June, and developed into a protest camp, with thousands of protesters in tents, organising a library, medical center, food distribution, and their own media. After the Gezi Park camp was cleared by riot police on 15 June, protesters began to meet in other parks all around Turkey and organised public forums to discuss ways forward for the protests. Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan dismissed the protesters as \"a few looters\" on 2 June. Police suppressed the protests with tear gas and water cannons. In addition to the 11 deaths and over 8,000 injuries, more than 3,000 arrests were made. Excessive use of force by police and the overall absence of government dialogue with the protesters was criticized by some foreign countries and international organisations.\n\nThe range of the protesters was described as being broad, encompassing both right- and left-wing individuals. Their complaints ranged from the original local environmental concerns to such issues as the authoritarianism of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, curbs on alcohol, a recent row about kissing in public, and the war in Syria. Protesters called themselves \"çapulcu\" (looters), reappropriating Erdoğan's insult for themselves (and coined the derivative \"chapulling\", given the meaning of \"fighting for your rights\"). Many users on Twitter also changed their screenname and used \"çapulcu\" instead. According to various analysts, the protests are the most challenging events for Erdoğan's ten-year term and the most significant nationwide disquiet in decades.\n\nThe Justice and Development Party (AKP) led by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has governed since 2002, winning the 2002, 2007 and 2011 elections by large margins. Under its rule the economy of Turkey recovered from the 2001 financial crisis and recession, driven in particular by a construction boom. At the same time, particularly since 2011, it has been accused of driving forward an Islamist agenda, having undermined the secularist influence of the Turkish Army. During the same period it also increased a range of restrictions on human rights, most notably freedom of speech and freedom of the press, despite improvements resulting from the accession process to the European Union.\n\nSince 2011, the AKP has increased restrictions on freedom of speech, freedom of the press, Internet use, television content, and the right to free assembly. It has also developed links with Turkish media groups, and used administrative and legal measures (including, in one case, a $2.5 billion tax fine) against critical media groups and journalists: \"over the last decade the AKP has built an informal, powerful, coalition of party-affiliated businessmen and media outlets whose livelihoods depend on the political order that Erdoğan is constructing. Those who resist do so at their own risk.\"\n\nThe government has been seen by certain constituencies as increasingly Islamist and authoritarian, An education reform strengthening Islamic elements and courses in public primary and high schools was approved by the parliament in 2012, with Erdoğan saying that he wanted to foster a \"pious generation.\" The sale and consumption of alcohol in university campuses has been banned. \nPeople have been given jail sentences for blasphemy.\n\nWhile construction in Turkey has boomed and has been a major driver for the economy, this has involved little to no local consultation. For example, major construction projects in Istanbul have been \"opposed by widespread coalitions of diverse interests. Yet in every case, the government has run roughshod over the projects' opponents in a dismissive manner, asserting that anyone who does not like what is taking place should remember how popular the AKP has been when elections roll around.\" Corruption concerns have also been raised, particularly relating to the Kanal İstanbul.\n\nEnvironmental issues, especially since the 2010 decision of the government to build additional nuclear power plants and the third bridge, led to continued demonstrations in Istanbul and Ankara. The Black Sea Region has seen dozens of protests against the construction of waste-dumps, nuclear and coal power plants, mines, factories and hydroelectric dams. 24 local musicians and activists in 2012 created a video entitled \"Diren Karadeniz\" (\"Resist, Black Sea\"), which prefigured the ubiquitous Gezi Park slogan \"Diren Gezi\".\n\nThe government's stance on the civil war in Syria is another cause of social tension in the country.\n\nControversy within progressive communities has been sparked by plans to turn Turkey's former Christian Hagia Sophia churches (now museums) in Trabzon and possibly Istanbul into mosques, a plan which failed to gain the support of prominent Muslim leaders from Trabzon.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, structural weaknesses in Turkey's economy were becoming more apparent. Economic growth slowed considerably in 2012 from 8.8% in 2011 to 2.2% in 2012 and forecasts for 2013 were below trend. Unemployment remained high at at least 9% and the current account deficit was growing to over 6% of GDP.\n\nA key issue Erdoğan campaigned for prior to the 2011 election was to rewrite the military-written constitution from 1982. Key amongst Erdoğan's demands were for Turkey to transform the role of President from that of a ceremonial role to an executive presidential republic with emboldened powers and for him to be elected president in the 2014 presidential elections. To submit such proposals to a referendum needs 330 out of 550 votes in the Grand National Assembly and to approve without referendum by parliament requires 367 out of 550 votes (a two-thirds majority) - The AKP currently holds only 326 seats. As such the constitutional commission requires agreement from opposition parties, namely the CHP, MHP and BDP who have largely objected to such proposals. Moreover, the constitutional courts have ruled that current president Abdullah Gül is permitted to run for the 2014 elections, who is widely rumoured to have increasingly tense relations and competition with Erdoğan. Furthermore, many members of parliament in the governing AKP have internally also objected by arguing that the current presidential system suffices. Erdoğan himself is currently barred from running for a fourth term as prime minister in the 2015 general elections due to current AKP by-laws, largely sparking accusations from the public that Erdoğan's proposals were stated in light of him only intending to prolong his rule as the most dominant figure in politics. The constitutional proposals have mostly so far been delayed in deliberations or lacked any broad agreement for reforms.\n\n\n\nThe initial cause of the protests was the plan to remove Gezi Park, one of the few remaining green spaces in the center of the European side of Istanbul. The plan involved pedestrianising Taksim Square and rebuilding the Ottoman-era Taksim Military Barracks, which had been demolished in 1940. Development projects in Turkey involve \"cultural preservation boards\" which are supposed to be independent of the government, and in January such a board rejected the project as not serving the public interest. However a higher board overturned this on 1 May, in a move park activists said was influenced by the government.\nThe ground floor of the rebuilt barracks was expected to house a shopping mall, and the upper floors luxury flats, although in response to the protests the likelihood of a shopping mall was downplayed, and the possibility of a museum raised. The main contractor for the project is the Kalyon Group, described in 2013 by the BBC as \"a company which has close ties with the governing Justice and Development (AK) Party.\"\n\nThe Gezi Park protests began in April, having started with a petition in December 2012. The protests were renewed on 27 May, culminating in the creation of an encampment occupying the park. A raid on this encampment on 29 May prompted outrage and wider protests. Although Turkey has a history of police brutality, the attack on a peaceful sit-in by environmentalists was different enough to spur wider outrage than such previous incidents, developing into the largest protests in Turkey in decades.\n\nThe large number of trees that were cut in the forests of northern Istanbul for the construction of the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge (Third Bosphorus Bridge) and the new Istanbul International Airport (the world's largest airport, with a capacity for 150 million passengers per year) were also influential in the public sensitivity for protecting Gezi Park. According to official Turkish government data, a total of 2,330,012 trees have been cut for constructing the Erdoğan Airport and its road connections; and a total of 381,096 trees have been cut for constructing the highway connections of the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge; reaching an overall total of 2,711,108 trees which were cut for the two projects.\n\n\nPolice use tear gas to disperse the peaceful protesters and burn down their tents in order to allow the bulldozing to continue. Photos of the scene, such as an image of a young female protester (later nicknamed the \"woman in red\") holding her ground while being sprayed by a policeman, quickly spread throughout the world media. \"The Washington Post\" reports that the image \"encapsulates Turkey's protests and the severe police crackdown\", while Reuters calls the image an \"iconic leitmotif.\"\n\nThe size of the protests grows.\n\nPolice raid the protesters' encampments. Online activists' calls for support against the police crackdown increase the number of sit-in protesters by the evening.\n\nPolice carry out another raid on the encampment in the early morning of 31 May, using water cannons and tear gas to disperse the protesters to surrounding areas and setting up barricades around the park to prevent re-occupation. Throughout the day, the police continue to fire tear gas, pepper spray and water cannons at demonstrators, resulting in reports of more than 100 injuries. MP Sırrı Süreyya Önder and journalist Ahmet Şık were hospitalised after being hit by tear gas canisters.\n\nThe executive order regarding the process decided earlier had been declared as \"on-hold\".\n\n10,000 gather in Istiklal Avenue. According to governor Hüseyin Avni Mutlu, 63 people are arrested and detained. Police use of tear gas is criticised for being \"indiscriminate.\" The interior minister, Muammer Guler, says the claims of the use of disproportionate force would be investigated.\n\n\nClashes continue throughout the day. Republican People's Party leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu announce that they will move their planned rally to Taksim Square instead of Kadıköy. Prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan says he has approved that decision. Around 15:45 police forces retreat from Taksim Square. Thousands of protesters gather at Gezi Park and Taksim Square.\n\nProtester Ethem Sarısülük gets shot in the head by a riot policeman during the protests at Ankara Kizilay Square. He dies 14 days later due to his injuries.\n\nPM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan describes the protesters as \"a few looters\" in a televised interview. He also criticises social media, calling Twitter a \"menace\" and an \"extreme version of lying\".\n\nAt night, police forces try to disperse protesters gathered at Beşiktaş district. Clashes between police and protesters continue until next morning. Beşiktaş football team supporter group Çarşı members hijack a bulldozer and chase police vehicles.\n\nFront side of AKM (Atatürk Cultural Center) building at Taksim Square gets covered with banners.\n\nIn Ankara, police tries to disperse thousands of protesters who are attempting to march on the prime minister's office there.\n\nPM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan speaks to reporters at the airport before leaving for a three-day trip to North Africa. He threatens the protesters saying \"We are barely holding the 50 percent (that voted for us) at home.\"\n\nTurkey's deputy prime minister Bulent Arinc offers an apology to protesters.\n\n22 year Abdullah Cömert dies after being hit in the head by tear gas canister during the protests at Hatay.\n\nPM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan speaks to his supporters outside of İstanbul Atatürk Airport on his return from a four-day trip to North Africa. Erdoğan blames \"interest rate lobbies\" claiming they are behind Gezi protests. His supporters chant \"Give us the way, we will crush Taksim Square\".\n\nRiot police forces enter Taksim square early in the morning. They make announcements that they will not be entering Gezi Park and their mission is to open Taksim Square to traffic again. Most protesters gather at Gezi Park, but a small group carrying banners of the Socialist Democracy Party retaliate using molotov cocktails and slingshots. Some people like Luke Harding from The Guardian claims that undercover police threw molotov cocktails, \"staging a not very plausible 'attack' on their own for the benefit of the cameras.\" These claims were rejected by the governor of Istanbul, Hüseyin Avni Mutlu.\n\nAfter police tries to enter Gezi park, clashes continue throughout the night and CNN International makes an eight-hour live coverage. Pro-government media accuses CNN and Christiane Amanpour of deliberately showing Turkey in a state of civil war.\n\nPM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan holds a meeting with the members of Taksim Solidarity in Ankara. When a member says that those protests have a sociological aspect, he gets angry and leaves the meeting saying \"We are not going to learn what sociology is from you!\".\n\nJustice and Development Party organises a mass rally called \"Respect to National Will\" in Ankara. Talking at the rally, PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan says that \"If protesters don't move out of Gezi Park, police forces will intervene\".\n\nAt about 17:30, Police forces begin making announcents to protesters telling to leave Gezi Park. Police forces make an assault about 20:50 and clear Gezi Park. Protesters move to areas around İstiklal Street and clash with police.\n\nMeanwhile, about 5,000 protesters gather at the Asian side of İstanbul and begin marching towards the European side. Riot police forces disperse the protesters with tear gas before reaching the Bosphorus Bridge.\n\nHeavy clashes between police and protesters continue until morning at various parts of İstanbul.\n\nJustice and Development Party organises its second rally at İstanbul Kazlıçeşme Square.\n\nA general strike and protests organised by five trade unions take place in almost every part of Turkey. Strikes doesn't have any negative effect on the daily life which led criticism of unions and their power.\n\nThe \"Standing Man\", Erdem Gündüz starts his silent protest in the evening. \nSimilar protests consisting of simply stopping and standing still spread everywhere in Turkey.\n\nPresident Abdullah Gül announces suspension of Gezi Park redevelopment plans.\n\nAn investigation regarding police brutality is opened and some officers dismissed\n\nViolence and mass demonstrations spread again in the country, after police attacks on thousands of protesters who threw carnations at them and called for brotherhood.\nMass demonstrations occur again in Taksim Square, Istanbul and also in Güvenpark and Dikmen in Ankara to protest against the release of police officer Ahmet Şahbaz who fatally shot Ethem Sarısuluk in the head, as well as against events in Lice, Diyarbakır and Cizre, Şırnak. Riot police suppress the protesters partially with plastic bullets and some tear gas bombs and some protesters are detained. There is also a major police intervention in Ankara.\nThe Istanbul LGBT Pride 2013 parade at Taksim Square attracts almost 100,000 people. Participants were joined by Gezi Park protesters, making the 2013 Istanbul Pride the biggest pride ever held in Turkey and eastern Europe. The European Union praises Turkey that the parade went ahead without disruption.\n\nThousands of people stage the \"1st Gas Man Festival\" (1. Gazdanadam Festivali) in Kadıköy to protest against the police crackdown on anti-government and nature-supporting demonstrations across the country.\nWith the arrival of Ramadan, protesters in Istanbul hold mass \"iftar\" (the ceremonial meal breaking the daily fast) for all comers.\n19-year-old Ali İsmail Korkmaz, who was in a coma since 4 June dies. He was severely battened by a group of casually dressed people on 3 June while running away from police intervention.\n\n\nThe initial protests in Istanbul at the end of May were led by about 50 environmentalists, opposing the replacement of Taksim Gezi Park with a shopping mall and possible residence as well as reconstruction of the historic Taksim Military Barracks (demolished in 1940) over the adjacent Taksim Square. The protests developed into riots when a group occupying the park was attacked with tear gas and water cannons by police. The subjects of the protests then broadened beyond the development of Taksim Gezi Park into wider anti-government demonstrations. The protests also spread to other cities in Turkey, and protests were seen in other countries with significant Turkish communities, including European countries, the U.S. and elsewhere. Protesters took to Taksim Square in Istanbul and to streets in Ankara as well as İzmir, Bursa, Antalya, Eskişehir, Balıkesir, Edirne, Mersin, Adana, İzmit, Konya, Kayseri, Samsun, Antakya, Trabzon, Isparta, Tekirdağ, Bodrum, and Mardin.\n\nThe overall number of protesters involved was reported to be at least 2.5 million by the Turkish Interior Ministry over the 3 weeks from the start of the events. The hashtag #OccupyGezi trended in social media. On 3 June unions announced strikes for 4 and 5 June. Some Turkish-American supporters of the protests took a full-page advertisement in \"The New York Times\" on 7 June co-created and crowd-funded within days by thousands of people on the Internet. The ad and \"The New York Times\" drew criticism from the Turkish Prime Minister, necessitating the newspaper to respond.\n\nThe range of the protesters was noted as being broad, encompassing both right and left-wing individuals. \"The Atlantic\" described the participants as \"the young and the old, the secular and the religious, the soccer hooligans and the blind, anarchists, communists, nationalists, Kurds, gays, feminists, and students.\" \"Der Spiegel\" said that protests were \"drawing more than students and intellectuals. Families with children, women in headscarves, men in suits, hipsters in sneakers, pharmacists, tea-house proprietors – all are taking to the streets to register their displeasure.\" It added that there was a notable absence of political party leadership: \"There have been no party flags, no party slogans and no prominent party functionaries to be seen. Kemalists and communists have demonstrated side-by-side with liberals and secularists.\" Opposition parties told members not to participate, leaving those who joined in doing so as private individuals.\n\n\"The Guardian\" observed that \"Flags of the environmentalist movement, rainbow banners, flags of Atatürk, of Che Guevara, of different trade unions, all adorn the Gezi park.\" Flag of PKK and its leader Abdullah Öcalan's posters and were also seen. \"Hürriyet\" noted that even the football supporter clubs of the three major teams (not least Beşiktaş' Çarşı), normally greatly antagonistic towards each other, had agreed to join the protests together; a Turkish sports reporter suggested that the supporters clubs' experience in battling police played a significant role. A photo report from \"RT\" showed graffiti in Taksim Square in support of internationalism. \"The Economist\" noted that there were as many women as men, and said that \"Scenes of tattooed youths helping women in headscarves stricken by tear gas have bust tired stereotypes about secularism versus Islam.\" Across political divides, protesters supported each other against the police.\n\nAccording to Erdoğan's 4 June speech from Morocco, the demonstrators are mostly looters, political losers and extremist fringe groups. He went on to say they went hand-in-hand with 'terrorists' and 'extremists'. He indicated that these protests were organised by the Republican Peoples Party (even though the CHP had initially supported construction on the Gezi-park). Turkey analysts however suggested the demonstrations arose from bottom-up processes, lacking leadership.\n\nA Bilgi University survey asked protesters about events that influenced them to join in the protests. Most cited were the prime minister's \"authoritarian attitude\" (92%), the police's \"disproportionate use of force\" (91%), the \"violation of democratic rights\" (91%), and the \"silence of the media\" (84%). Half the protesters were under 30, and 70% had no political affiliation; another poll found 79% had no affiliation with any organisation.\n\nOn 4 June a solidarity group associated with the Occupy Gezi movement, \"Taksim Dayanışması\" (\"Taksim Solidarity\"), issued several demands:\nDeputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç met the group on 5 June but later rejected these demands.\n\nWith the police abandoning attempts to clear the Gezi Park encampment on 1 June, the area began to take on some of the characteristics associated with the Occupy movement. The number of tents swelled, to the point where a hand-drawn map was set up at the entrance. Access roads to the park and to Taksim Square have been blocked by protesters against the police with barricades of paving stones and corrugated iron.\n\nBy evening on 4 June there were again tens of thousands in Taksim Square; Al Jazeera reported that \"there are many families with their children enjoying the demonstration that has developed the feeling of a festival.\" There were also signs of a developing infrastructure reminding some observers of Occupy Wall Street, with \"a fully operational kitchen and first-aid clinic... carved out of an abandoned concession stand in the back of the park,\" complete with rotas and fundraising for people's travel expenses. Protesters brought food to donate, and dozens of volunteers organised themselves into four shifts.\n\nA makeshift \"protester library\" was also created (soon reaching 5000 books), and Şebnem Ferah gave a concert. A \"makeshift outdoor movie screen\" was set up, together with a stage with microphones and speakers, and a generator. A symbolic \"street\" was named after Hrant Dink, the journalist murdered in 2007; the street connects the Peace Square with the children's playground. Sellers of watermelons mingle with sellers of swimming goggles and surgical masks (to protect against tear gas); a yoga teacher provides classes. The crowds swell in the evening as office workers join.\n\nWith 5 June being the Lailat al Miraj religious holiday, protesters distributed \"kandil simidi\" (a pastry specific to the holiday), and temporarily declared the park a no-alcohol zone. Celebration of the holiday included a Quran reading.\n\nPeter Gelderloos argues that the camp was a small, anarchist community that heavily emphasied mutual aid. He also argues that large cultural changes occurred within the camp. He argues that the Gezi Park was one of the most successful examples of social activism in recent history, mainly due to its refusal to be represented by political parties, trade unions and the media.\n\nOne photograph taken by Reuters photographer Osman Orsal of a woman in a red dress being pepper-sprayed became one of the iconic images of the protests: \"In her red cotton summer dress, necklace and white bag slung over her shoulder she might have been floating across the lawn at a garden party; but before her crouches a masked policeman firing teargas spray that sends her long hair billowing upwards.\" Orsal himself was later injured by a tear gas canister. In June 2015 the police officer who sprayed pepper gas in the face of \"the woman in red\" was sentenced to 20 months in jail and to plant 600 trees by a criminal court in Istanbul.\n\nGuy Fawkes masks have also been widely used, for example by striking Turkish Airlines cabin crew performing a parody of airline safety announcements referring to the protests.\n\nThe protesters have also made significant use of humour, both in graffiti and online, in what the BBC called \"an explosion of expression... in the form of satire, irony and outright mockery of the popular leader on Istanbul's streets and social media.\" It gave as an example a parody of the Turkish auction site sahibinden.com as \"tayyibinden.com\", listing Gezi Park for sale. Examples of slogans include \"Enough! I'm calling the police\", as well as pop culture references: \"Tayyip – Winter is Coming\" (a reference to \"Game of Thrones\") and \"You're messing with the generation that beats cops in GTA.\" (a reference to Grand Theft Auto).\n\nProtesters had previously mocked Erdoğan's recommendation to have at least 3 children and policy of restricting alcohol with the slogan \"at least 3 beers\" even though this is criticised on social media for Erdoğan's recommendation of having 3 children is his personal view and not a government policy.\n\nPenguins were also adopted as a symbol, referring to CNN Turk's showing a penguin documentary while CNN International provided live coverage of the protests; examples include \"We are all penguins\" T-shirts.\n\nIn response to Erdoğan's description of the protesters as looters (\"\", \"a few [literally: three to five] looters\"), demonstrators took up the name as a symbol of pride, describing their peaceful and humorous civil disobedience actions as chapulling. A majority of social-media users participating in the protests also changed their Twitter screen names after Erdogan calling them looters, adding \"çapulcu\" as if a professional title.\n\nEncampments were made in other parks in support of the Gezi protests, including in Ankara's Kuğulu Park and in Izmir's Gündoğdu Square.\n\nAfter the violent clearing of Gezi Park on 15–16 June by riot police and Turkish Gendarmerie, Beşiktaş JK's supporter group Çarşı, declared the Abbasağa Park, in Beşiktaş district as the second Gezi Park and called for people to occupy it on 17 June. After this call, thousands started to gather at Abbasağa Park, holding public forums to discuss and vote on the situation of the resistance and actions to be taken. Shortly after this, democracy forums and meetings spread to many parks in Istanbul and then to the other cities, like Ankara, Izmir, Mersin, etc.\n\nAs the protests mostly took place on the beginning of summer, on the time all schools makes their students graduate, the protests and humour have hit hundreds of universities' and high schools' graduations too.\n\nAs lots of fan associations from various parts of Turkey supported and participated in protests actively on the ground and also supported the resistance against AKP government and its various policies, in the stadiums with their chants, clothes, slogans, banners and posters, the stadiums became practical places of Gezi protests and where fans can do even more political expressions than before, mostly opposing to the government and its ideologies. As this continued to happen during the off-season friendly and continental trophy matches, government took lots of precautions with an organising law for stadiums that passed from the assembly with AKP votes, banning to bring politics into stadiums, but soon after the start of the Turkish sports leagues, as most of the fans continued to their protests, this time even more organised and loud, first punishments on the opposing fans and clubs were given, but there were lots of criticism both from Turkish and foreigner experts about the law banning bringing \"opposition\" into stadiums, not \"politics\", as some fan groups opened banners that openly support AKP in Konya and supported Morsi of Egypt in Bursa.\n\nDemonstrations were held in many cities in Turkey. According to the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey around 640,000 people had participated in the demonstrations as of 5 June. Protests took place in 78 of Turkey's 81 provinces.\nThe biggest protests have been in Istanbul, with reports of more than 100,000 protesters. Inside of the city, protests have been concentrated in the central neighbourhoods of Beyoğlu (around Taksim square and İstiklal Avenue), Beşiktaş (from Dolmabahçe to Ortaköy) and Üsküdar (From Maltepe to Kadıköy, Beylerbeyi to Çengelköy). Also in Zeytinburnu, traditionally seen as a conservative working-class neighbourhood to the west of the old city, tens of thousands marched in protest. Among the suburbs that saw demonstrations were Beylikdüzü and Küçükçekmece on the far-western side of the city, Pendik and Kartal at the far east and Ümraniye, Beykoz and Esenler to the North.\n\nGazi (not to be confused with Gezi Park), a small neighborhood in Istanbul and part of the Sultangazi district, was one of the major points of counter-protests.\n\nThe biggest protests outside Istanbul have been in Hatay and then in Ankara and Izmir.\nOther cities in Turkey with protests include (Between 31 May – 25 June):\n\nOther cities outside Turkey with protests include:\n\nGeo-spatial analysis of protest shows support from all over the world and mainly concentrated in Turkey, Europe and East coast of US.\n\nWithin 24 hours on 3 June, a New York Times advertisement led by Murat Aktihanoglu surpassed its $54,000 crowd-funding target on Indiegogo. The ad featured demands for \"an end to police brutality\"; \"a free and unbiased media\"; and \"an open dialogue, not the dictate of an autocrat.\" An early draft sparked debate among Gezi protesters for its references to Atatürk, which was not a common value of the protesters. The editing of the final advertisement involved thousands of people, and the ad was published on 7 June. Despite its financing by 2,654 online funders, Erdoğan and his administration blamed a domestic and foreign \"bond interest lobby\" and \"The New York Times\" for the ad. Full Page Ad for Turkish Democracy in Action: OccupyGezi for the World\n\nAn Avaaz petition similarly asked for an end to violence against protesters, the preservation of Gezi Park, and of \"the remaining green areas in Istanbul.\"\n\nOn 24 July The Times newspaper published a full-page open letter, drafted and spearheaded by Fuad Kavur, addressed to Turkish PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, which condemned the Turkish authorities' heavy-handed crackdown on the Gezi Park protests. The letter was signed by internationally renowned artists and scholars such as Sean Penn, Susan Sarandon, Ben Kingsley, David Lynch and Andrew Mango. PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan accused The Times of \"renting out its pages for money\" and threatened to sue the newspaper.\n\nAfter the clearing of Gezi Park camp on 15 June a new type of protest developed, dubbed the \"Standing Man\" or \"Standing Woman\". A lone protester, Erdem Gündüz, initiated it on 17 June 2013 by standing in Taksim Square for hours, staring at the Turkish flags on the Ataturk Cultural Center. The Internet distributed images of such protest widely; other persons imitated the protest style and artists took up the theme. A type of dilemma action, the initial Standing Man protest soon inspired others to do the same. The Human Rights Foundation announces 2 May the recipients of the 2014 Václav Havel Prize for Creative Dissent. The 2014 laureates are Turkish performance artist Erdem Gündüz - Standing Man - together with Russian punk protest group Pussy Riot.\n\nAn additional form of protest developed under the name \"Boykot Listesi\", as a boycott of businesses which had failed to open their doors to protesters seeking refuge from tear gas and water cannon, and of companies such as Doğuş Holding (owner of NTV) which owned media that had not given sufficient coverage of the protests. The hashtag \"#boykotediyoruz\" was used.\n\nEven though protests were definitely peaceful in the first days and were generally so but in some occasions, there were accusations of violence and vandalism as the protests continued. According to the journalist Gülay Göktürk, \"the Gezi Park protesters damaged 103 police cruisers, 207 automobiles, 15 ambulances and 280 buildings and buses in demonstrations across the country.\" though no other sources confirm these figures.\n\nOn 29 May, after the initial protests, Erdoğan gave a speech at the groundbreaking ceremony for the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge reiterating his commitment to the redevelopment plan, saying \"Whatever you do, we've made our decision and we will implement it.\" On 31 May Istanbul mayor Kadir Topbaş stated that the environmental campaign had been manipulated by \"political agendas.\"\n\nOn 1 June Erdoğan gave a televised speech condemning the protesters and vowing that \"where they gather 20, I will get up and gather 200,000 people. Where they gather 100,000, I will bring together one million from my party.\" On 2 June he described the protesters as \"çapulcular\" (\"looters\").\n\nOn 1 June Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç criticised the use of tear gas against demonstrators and stated, \"It would have been more helpful to try and persuade the people who said they didn't want a shopping mall, instead of spraying them with tear gas.\" On 4 June an official tweet summarising new comments by Arınç said \"We have been monitoring the non-violent demonstrations with respect.\" Arınç later apologised for use of \"excessive force.\"\n\nOn 2 June it was reported that Turkey's President Abdullah Gül contacted other senior leaders urging \"moderation.\" After the call, Interior Minister Muammer Güler ordered police to withdraw from Taksim, allowing protesters to re-occupy the square. On 3 June Gül defended the right to protest, saying that \"Democracy does not mean elections alone.\"\n\nOn 4 June Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy Ali Babacan \"said the government respects the right to non-violent protest and free speech, but that it must also protect its citizens against violence.\"\n\nOn 8 June \"We are definitely not thinking of building a shopping mall there, no hotel or residence either. It can be... a city museum or an exhibition center,\" Istanbul mayor Kadir Topbas told reporters.\n\nIn a press release on 17 June, Egemen Bağış, Minister For EU Affairs, criticised \"the use of the platform of the European Parliament to express the eclipse of reason through disproportionate, unbalanced and illogical statements...\" and said that \"Rather than allowing this, it would be wiser for the EU officials to put an end to it.\"\n\n3 July, Cancellation of the planned construction, in Taksim area, that sparked the protests was finally made public. The court order was made in mid-June at the height of the protest but inexplicably not released for weeks.\n\nErdoğan gave a number of speeches dismissing the protesters, and on 3 June left the country on a planned 3-day diplomatic tour of North African countries, a move that was criticised as irresponsible by opposing political leaders. On 4 June, Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç apologised to protesters for \"excessive violence\" used by the police in the beginning of the riots, but said he would not apologise for the police violence that came after. On 6 June, PM Erdoğan said the redevelopment plans would go ahead despite the protests.\n\nThe government has claimed that a wide variety of shadowy forces were behind the protests. In a speech on 18 June, Erdoğan accused \"internal traitors and external collaborators\", saying that \"It was prepared very professionally... Social media was prepared for this, made equipped. The strongest advertising companies of our country, certain capital groups, the interest rate lobby, organisations on the inside and outside, hubs, they were ready, equipped for this.\" Erdoğan implicitly included the main opposition CHP in the category of \"internal traitors\", claiming that three-quarters of protest participants had voted for the CHP, and accusing CHP leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu \"of acting like the head of a terrorist organisation by calling on the police not to obey orders.\" Erdoğan also claimed that Taksim protests were linked to the Reyhanlı bombings, and accused the CHP of complicity in the bombings, calling on Kılıçdaroğlu to resign.\n\nIn late June it was announced that the National Intelligence Organisation was investigating foreign elements in the protests. The Foreign Ministry also demanded \"a report detailing which efforts these countries took to create a perception against Turkey, which instruments were used in this process, what our embassies did and what were our citizens' reactions\".\n\nPro-AKP newspapers reported that the protests were planned by the Serbian civil society organisation Otpor!.\n\nYeni Şafak newspaper claimed that a theatre play called \"Mi Minor,\" allegedly supported by an agency in Britain, had held rehearsals of \"revolution\" in Turkey for months.\n\nAnkara mayor Melih Gökçek accused Selin Girit, a BBC Turkey correspondent of being a spy.\n\nOn 1 July, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay accused foreign agents and the Jewish diaspora of orchestrating the protests. \"There are some circles that are jealous of Turkey's growth,\" Atalay said. \"They are all uniting, on one side the Jewish Diaspora. You saw the foreign media's attitude during the Gezi Park incidents; they bought it and started broadcasting immediately, without doing an evaluation of the [case].\" A number of Turkish commentators and lower-level officials have accused Jewish groups and others of conspiring to engineer the protests and bring about Erdoğan's downfall. On 2 July, the Turkish Jewish Community made a statement that this was an unfounded anti-Semitic generalization\n\nAKP lawmaker and PM Burhan Kuzu accused Germany of being behind the Gezi protests to stop construction of Istanbul's third airport. He stated that \"When it is completed, Frankfurt Airport in Germany will lose its importance. Hence, in the recent Gezi incidents, Germany, along with agents, has a major role.\"\n\nMehmet Eymür, a retired officer from Turkish National Intelligence Organisation claimed that Mossad was behind Gezi protests. During a televised interview at one of the pro-government television channels, he stated that some Turkish Jews who did their military service in Israel were Mossad agents and active during gezi protests.\n\nProtests intensified after (on the morning of 30 May) undercover police burnt the tents of protesters who had organised a sit-in at Gezi Park. Çevik Kuvvet riot police internal messages compared the events to the 1916 Gallipoli Campaign. Amnesty International said on 1 June that \"It is clear that the use of force by police is being driven not by the need to respond to violence – of which there has been very little on the part of protesters – but by a desire to prevent and discourage protest of any kind.\" By 14 June 150,000 tear gas cartridges and 3000 tons of water had been used. In mid-June Amnesty International said that it had \"received consistent and credible reports of demonstrators being beaten by police during arrest and transfer to custody and being denied access to food, water, and toilet facilities for up to 12 hours during the current protests in Istanbul which have taken place for almost three weeks.\" Hundreds of protesters were detained.\n\nAs protests continued in early June, tear gas was used so extensively that many residents of central Istanbul had to keep windows closed even in the heat of summer, or use respirators and then struggle to decontaminate homes of tear gas residue. Police even water cannoned a man in a wheelchair. The Turkish Doctors' Association said that by 15 June, over 11,000 people had been treated for tear gas exposure, and nearly 800 for injuries caused by tear gas cartridges. On the weekend of 15 June, police action escalated significantly. Police were seen adding Jenix Pepper Spray to their water cannons, and the Istanbul Doctors Association later said that there was \"a high but an unknown number of first and second-degree burn injuries because of some substance mixed in pressurised water cannons\". On the night of 15/16 June police repeatedly tear-gassed the lobby of the Divan Istanbul hotel, where protesters had taken refuge, causing a pregnant woman to miscarry. They also water-cannoned and tear gassed the Taksim German Hospital.\nDoctors and medical students organised first aid stations. In some cases the stations and medical personnel were targeted by police with tear gas, and one medical student volunteer was left in intensive care after being beaten by police, despite telling them that he was a doctor trying to help. Medical volunteers were also arrested. \"[Police] are now patrolling the streets at night and selectively breaking ground-floor windows of apartments and throwing tear gas into people's homes. They have been joined by groups of AKP sympathisers with baseball bats.\" One volunteer medic working at a tent in Taksim Square said that \"They promised us that they would not attack our field hospital, but they did anyway, firing six rounds of teargas directly into our tent.\"\n\nLawyers were also targeted by police. On 11 June at least 20 lawyers gathering at the Istanbul Çağlayan Justice Palace to make a press statement about Gezi Park were detained by police, including riot police. The arrests of total 73–74 lawyers were described as \"very brutal and anti-democratic\" by one lawyer present, with many injured: \"They even kicked their heads, the lawyers were on the ground. They were hitting us they were pushing. They built a circle around us and then they attacked.\"\n\nThere were also reports of journalists being targeted by police, and a Russian journalist \"beaten and detained by suspected Turkish intelligence services, as he was taking pictures of empty police cars on Taksim Square\". \"The New York Times\" reported on 16 June that \"One foreign photographer documenting the clashes Saturday night said a police officer had torn his gas mask off him while in a cloud of tear gas, and forced him to clear his memory card of photographs.\" Reporters without Borders reported eight journalists arrested, some violently, and several forced to delete photographs from their digital cameras.\nA spokesman for the police union Emniyet-Sen said poor treatment of officers by the police was partly to blame for the violence: \"Fatigue and constant pressure lead to inattentiveness, aggression and a lack of empathy. It's irresponsible to keep riot police on duty for such long hours without any rest.\"\n\nOn 2 October, the Amnesty International released a full report about police brutality at Gezi Park protests with the title of \n\"Gezi Park Protests: Brutal Denıal Of The Rıght To Peaceful Assembly In Turkey\".\n\nOn 16 October, the European Union released its progress report on Turkey, with Gezi protests putting a mark on crucial parts of the document. Report stated that \"The excessive use of force by police and the overall absence of dialogue during the protests in May/June have raised serious concerns\".\n\nOn 26 November, commissioner for human rights of the Council of Europe released a full report about Turkey and Gezi protests. The report said that \"The Commissioner considers that impunity of law-enforcement officials committing human rights violations is an entrenched problem in Turkey\".\n\nAlthough in most cities there were no counter-protests during the first week, some cities (e.g. Konya) saw minor disagreements and scuffles between nationalists and left-wing groups. When a small group of people wanted to read a statement in front of Atatürk's statue in Trabzon's central Meydan/Atatürk square another small group of far-right nationalists chased them off, the police separated the groups to prevent violence. Nonetheless, during day and night time there were marches and other kinds of protests in the city, but mostly without political banners.\n\nLists of prominent individuals who had supported the protests (e.g. actor Memet Ali Alabora) were circulated, and images of protest damage circulated under the heading #SenOde (\"You pay for it\"). The daily \"Yeni Şafak\" criticised prominent government critics such as Ece Temelkuran, with a piece on 18 June headlined \"Losers' Club\".\n\nHasan Karakaya, an author of the pro-AKP newspaper \"Akit\", wrote about the events going on in Turkey, finding them similar to the latest situation in Egypt, and used the terms \"dog\" (\"köpek\"), \"pimp\" (\"pezevenk\"), and \"whore\" (\"kaltak\") to describe the protesters.\n\nAs protests continued across Turkey, police use of tear gas and water cannons led to injuries running into thousands, including critical injuries, loss of sight, and a number of deaths. Over three thousand arrests were made. Police forces repeatedly used unnecessary and abusive force to prevent and disperse peaceful demonstrations. As a result, it is estimated that there were 11 fatalities.\n\nForeign media noted that, particularly in the early days (31 May – 2 June), the protests attracted relatively little mainstream media coverage in Turkey, due to either government pressure on media groups' business interests or simply ideological sympathy by media outlets. The BBC noted that while some outlets are aligned with the AKP or are personally close to Erdoğan, \"most mainstream media outlets – such as TV news channels HaberTurk and NTV, and the major centrist daily \"Milliyet\" – are loath to irritate the government because their owners' business interests at times rely on government support. All of these have tended to steer clear of covering the demonstrations.\" Ulusal Kanal and Halk TV provided extensive live coverage from Gezi park.\n\nOn 14 February 2014, released video footage revealed that there had in fact been no attack on a woman wearing a headscarf by protesters on 1 June. The woman and Prime Minister Erdoğan had claimed in press conferences and political rallies that protesters had attacked her and her baby.\n\nThe AKP government's handling of the protests has been roundly criticised by other nations and international organisations, including the European Union, the United Nations, the United States, the UK, and Germany.\n\nAccording to Koray Çalışkan, a political scientist at Istanbul's Boğaziçi University, the protests are \"a turning point for the AKP. Erdoğan is a very confident and a very authoritarian politician, and he doesn't listen to anyone anymore. But he needs to understand that Turkey is no kingdom, and that he cannot rule Istanbul from Ankara all by himself.\" Çalışkan also suggested that the prospects for Erdoğan's plan to enact a new constitution based on a presidential system, with Erdoğan becoming the first President under this system, might have been damaged.\n\nDespite the AKP's support lying with religious conservatives, some conservative and Islamist organisations stood against Erdoğan. Groups such as the Anti-Capitalist Muslims and Revolutionist Muslims performed Friday prayers (salat) in front of the \"mescid çadırı\" (mosque tent) in Gezi Park on 7 and 14 June, one day before the police eviction. \nMustafa Akyol, a liberal Islamist journalist, described the events as the cumulative reaction of the people to Erdoğan. Significant conservative opponents of the government include the religious writer İhsan Eliaçık, who accused Erdoğan of being a dictator, Fatma Bostan Ünsal, one of the co-founders of the AKP, who expressed support to protests. and Abdüllatif Şener, the former AKP Deputy Prime Minister, who strongly criticised the government in an interview with the left-wing Halk TV.\n\nFaruk Birtek, a sociology professor at Boğaziçi University, criticised the actions of Turkish police against protesters and likened them to the SS of Nazi Germany. Daron Acemoglu, a professor of economics at M.I.T., wrote an op-ed for \"The New York Times\" about the protests, saying: \"if the ballot box doesn't offer the right choices, democracy advances by direct action.\"\n\nThe music group Duman composed and sang a song called \"Eyvallah\" referring to Erdoğan's words over admitting use of excessive force.\n\nThe band Kardeş Türküler composed and sang a song called \"Tencere Tava Havası\" (Sound of Pots and Pans) referring to banging pots and pans in balconies in protest against Erdoğan.\n\nThe Taiwanese Next Media Animation satirised Erdoğan over Gezi Protests with 3 humorous CGI-animated coverage series that included lots of symbols from the ongoing protests. They also made an animation about Melih Gokcek, the mayor of Ankara, who accused Next Media Animation of controlling the protesters. Those animations got reaction in the Turkish media as well. \nBoğaziçi Jazz Choir composed a song named \"Çapulcu Musun Vay Vay\", satirizing the word Chapulling and played it first in Istanbul subway and then in Gezi Park.\n\nPop music singer Nazan Öncel produced a song \"Güya\" (\"Supposedly\" in Turkish) criticizing the government and Emek dispute, as \"Nazan Öncel and Çapulcu Orchestra\".\n\nFormer Pink Floyd member Roger Waters, during his \"\"The Wall Live\"\" concert in Istanbul on 4 August 2013, expressed his support and offered condolences to the protesters in Turkish, projecting the pictures of the people killed during the protests in the background.\n\nThe Colbert Report host Stephen Colbert had a segment on the protests creating the \"autocratic anagram\" \"Pro Gay Centipede Ray\" for Erdoğan and continued referring to him as \"Prime Minister Centipede\" multiple times which was criticised by some of the Turkish Media.\n\nInternationally known Turkish electropop musician Bedük, composed, recorded and released a song named \"It's A Riot\" describing the protests and the fight for freedom in Turkey and released an official music video on 28 June, which has been created with all anonymous footages from different parts of Turkey, during the ongoing protests.\n\nOzbi, a Turkish rapper (and member of the band Kaos), gained national fame by composing and recording a song named \"Asi\" (Rebel).\n\nWorld-famous alternative rock band Placebo included images representing Gezi protests in the music video for their latest song, \"Rob the Bank\".\n\nA Turkish rock band, The Ringo Jets, released a song called \"Spring of War\" about the protests.\n\nDuring their concert at Istanbul, Massive Attack named those who died in protests on the outdoor screen at their back with following sentences, \"Their killers are still out there\" and \"We won't forget Soma\".\n\nIn 2011, Turkey attracted more than 31.5 million foreign tourists, ranking as the 6th most popular tourist destination in the world. Tourism has been described as \"one of the most vital sources of income for Turkey\", raising concerns that \"unrest would have a dire effect on Istanbul [...] and the larger tourism economy.\" On 4 June, Hotel and Tourism investors from Istanbul reported that \"more than 40 percent of hotel reservations\" had been cancelled.\n\nMark Almond, visiting professor in International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, said on Russia Today: \"This is a city that has huge numbers of foreign tourists – many of them have been affected, many of them sought medical help. It's a public relations disaster with huge economic implications.\" \n\nMany world renowned and award-winning film-makers were in Istanbul for the 2013 Documentarist Film Festival, which had been postponed indefinitely due to the violent reaction of the Turkish authorities to peaceful protests there. The first two days of the festival, 1 and 2 June, did not occur due to the social upheaval and one of the main sites, Akbank Sanat, was unable to show films for an extended period of time due to its proximity to the protests. Petra Costa, the Brazilian director of the documentary film Elena, and Egyptian director of photography Muhammed Hamdy began filming the protests and reporting from the field.\n\nSince the beginning of the protests, demonstrations had taken place in Mersin, the city which was to host the 2013 Mediterranean Games. Since Erdoğan was due to speak at the opening ceremony of the games, there was speculation that protesters would take the opportunity to embarrass the government. Just 15 minutes after the tickets went on sale online they were all sold to an anonymous buyer and apparently distributed to various AKP organisations. Combined with a boycott by local people of the games, this meant that the stadium was frequently nearly empty. Protesters were prevented from approaching the stadium by riot police, and were evicted from Mersin's Peace Park (\"Barış Parkı\") the night before the games. Tear gas, water cannons and rubber bullets were used against protesters.\n\nOther scandals which surrounded the games included: eight Turkish weight-lifters found to have performance-enhancing drugs in their blood and subsequently being disqualified And a van belonging to the Games organisation transporting staff and athletes being seen in front of a brothel in Mersin.\n\nIstanbul mayor Kadir Topbaş gave an interview expressing concern that the police's actions would jeopardise Istanbul's bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics, saying \"As Istanbul's mayor going through such an event, the fact that the whole world watched saddens me. How will we explain it? With what claims will we host the 2020 Olympic Games?\" As it turned out, \"political unrest\" was cited as one of the reasons for the failure of Istanbul's bid to host the Olympics, along with worries about the economy, the Syrian crisis and scandals surrounding the Mediterranean Games.\n\nOn 3 June, Istanbul's stock exchange experienced a loss of 10.5% in a single day—the drop was \"the biggest one-day loss in a decade.\" The fall of BIST 100 index was the sharpest since August 2011, and the yield on two-year lira bonds rose 71 basis points to 6.78 percent, the biggest jump since 2005. Turkish central bank had to auction out and buy Turkish Lira`s in order to keep the exchange rate going. Next 11 funds have also dropped due to the Turkish prime minister’s opposing views on freedom and democracy\n\nOn 6 June, PM Erdoğan said the redevelopment plans would go ahead despite the protests. Shortly after the comments were broadcast, the Turkish stock markets fell 5%.\n\nOn 11 June, Rating's agency Moody's warned Turkey that ongoing protests would result in significant credit risks, leading \"Istanbul's main share index\" to fall an additional 1.7%.\n\nOn 25 June 2013 EU foreign ministers backed Germany's proposal to postpone further EU membership talks with Turkey for about four months due to the government's handling of the protests. This delay raised new doubts about whether Turkey should ever be admitted to the European Union. In early June, in comments on Turkey's possible membership, German Chancellor Angela Merkel did not address the compromise proposal but said Turkey must make progress on its relations with EU member Cyprus to give impetus to its membership ambitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23814649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814649", "title": "Grasslands Reserve Program", "text": "Grasslands Reserve Program\n\nThe 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107-171, Sec 2401), authorizes enrollment of of restored or improved grassland, range land and pastureland under temporary and permanent easements, or contracts of at least 10 years. Under the Grasslands Reserve Program (GRP), enrolled land must be in parcels that exceed . Technical assistance is provided to restore grasslands. A total of $254 million in mandatory funding from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) between FY2003 and FY2007 is provided. It also provides cost sharing payments at 75% to restore disturbed grasslands and 90% to protect virgin grasslands.\n\n"}
{"id": "372836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372836", "title": "Great power", "text": "Great power\n\nA great power is a sovereign state that is recognized as having the ability and expertise to exert its influence on a global scale. Great powers characteristically possess military and economic strength, as well as diplomatic and soft power influence, which may cause middle or small powers to consider the great powers' opinions before taking actions of their own. International relations theorists have posited that great power status can be characterized into power capabilities, spatial aspects, and status dimensions.\n\nWhile some nations are widely considered to be great powers, there is no definitive list of them. Sometimes the status of great powers is formally recognized in conferences such as the Congress of Vienna or the United Nations Security Council. Accordingly, the status of great powers has also been formally and informally recognized in forums such as the Group of Seven (G7).\n\nThe term \"great power\" was first used to represent the most important powers in Europe during the post-Napoleonic era. The \"Great Powers\" constituted the \"Concert of Europe\" and claimed the right to joint enforcement of the postwar treaties. The formalization of the division between small powers and great powers came about with the signing of the Treaty of Chaumont in 1814. Since then, the international balance of power has shifted numerous times, most dramatically during World War I and World War II. In literature, alternative terms for great power are often world power or major power, but these terms can also be interchangeable with superpower.\n\nThere are no set or defined characteristics of a great power. These characteristics have often been treated as empirical, self-evident to the assessor. However, this approach has the disadvantage of subjectivity. As a result, there have been attempts to derive some common criteria and to treat these as essential elements of great power status. Danilovic (2002) highlights three central characteristics, which she terms as \"power, spatial, and status dimensions,\" that distinguish major powers from other states. The following section (\"Characteristics\") is extracted from her discussion of these three dimensions, including all of the citations.\n\nEarly writings on the subject tended to judge states by the realist criterion, as expressed by the historian A. J. P. Taylor when he noted that \"The test of a great power is the test of strength for war.\" Later writers have expanded this test, attempting to define power in terms of overall military, economic, and political capacity. Kenneth Waltz, the founder of the neorealist theory of international relations, uses a set of five criteria to determine great power: population and territory; resource endowment; economic capability; political stability and competence; and military strength. These expanded criteria can be divided into three heads: power capabilities, spatial aspects, and status.\n\nAs noted above, for many, power capabilities were the sole criterion. However, even under the more expansive tests, power retains a vital place.\n\nThis aspect has received mixed treatment, with some confusion as to the degree of power required. Writers have approached the concept of great power with differing conceptualizations of the world situation, from multi-polarity to overwhelming hegemony. In his essay, 'French Diplomacy in the Postwar Period', the French historian Jean-Baptiste Duroselle spoke of the concept of multi-polarity: \"A Great power is one which is capable of preserving its own independence against any other single power.\"\n\nThis differed from earlier writers, notably from Leopold von Ranke, who clearly had a different idea of the world situation. In his essay 'The Great Powers', written in 1833, von Ranke wrote: \"If one could establish as a definition of a Great power that it must be able to maintain itself against all others, even when they are united, then Frederick has raised Prussia to that position.\" These positions have been the subject of criticism.\n\nAll states have a geographic scope of interests, actions, or projected power. This is a crucial factor in distinguishing a great power from a regional power; by definition the scope of a regional power is restricted to its region. It has been suggested that a great power should be possessed of actual influence throughout the scope of the prevailing international system. Arnold J. Toynbee, for example, observes that \"Great power may be defined as a political force exerting an effect co-extensive with the widest range of the society in which it operates. The Great powers of 1914 were 'world-powers' because Western society had recently become 'world-wide'.\"\n\nOther suggestions have been made that a great power should have the capacity to engage in extra-regional affairs and that a great power ought to be possessed of extra-regional interests, two propositions which are often closely connected.\n\nFormal or informal acknowledgment of a nation's great power status has also been a criterion for being a great power. As political scientist George Modelski notes, \"The status of Great power is sometimes confused with the condition of being powerful. The office, as it is known, did in fact evolve from the role played by the great military states in earlier periods... But the Great power system institutionalizes the position of the powerful state in a web of rights and obligations.\"\n\nThis approach restricts analysis to the epoch following the Congress of Vienna at which great powers were first formally recognized. In the absence of such a formal act of recognition it has been suggested that great power status can arise by implication by judging the nature of a state's relations with other great powers.\n\nA further option is to examine a state's willingness to act as a great power. As a nation will seldom declare that it is acting as such, this usually entails a retrospective examination of state conduct. As a result, this is of limited use in establishing the nature of contemporary powers, at least not without the exercise of subjective observation.\n\nOther important criteria throughout history are that great powers should have enough influence to be included in discussions of contemporary political and diplomatic questions and exercise influence on the final outcome and resolution. Historically, when major political questions were addressed, several great powers met to discuss them. Before the era of groups like the United Nations, participants of such meetings were not officially named but rather were decided based on their great power status. These were conferences which settled important questions based on major historical events.\n\nDifferent sets of great, or significant, powers have existed throughout history. An early reference to great powers is from the 3rd century, when the Persian prophet Mani described Rome, China, Aksum, and Persia as the four greatest kingdoms of his time. However, the term \"great power\" has only been used in scholarly or diplomatic discourse since the Congress of Vienna in 1815. The Congress established the Concert of Europe as an attempt to preserve peace after the years of Napoleonic Wars.\n\nLord Castlereagh, the British foreign secretary, first used the term in its diplomatic context, in a letter sent on 13 February 1814: \"It affords me great satisfaction to acquaint you that there is every prospect of the Congress terminating with a general accord and Guarantee between the Great powers of Europe, with a determination to support the arrangement agreed upon, and to turn the general influence and if necessary the general arms against the Power that shall first attempt to disturb the Continental peace.\"\n\nThe Congress of Vienna consisted of five main powers: the Austrian Empire, France, Prussia, Russia, and the United Kingdom (UK). These five primary participants constituted the original great powers as we know the term today. Other powers, such as Spain, Portugal, and Sweden, which was a great power during the 17th century, were consulted on certain specific issues, but they were not full participants. Hanover (its elector was also king of the UK), Bavaria, and Württemberg were also consulted on issues relating to Germany.\n\nOf the five original great powers recognized at the Congress of Vienna, only France and the United Kingdom have maintained that status continuously to the present day, although France was defeated in the Franco-Prussian War and occupied during World War II. After the Congress of Vienna, the British Empire emerged as the pre-eminent power, due to its navy and the extent of its territories, which signalled the beginning of the \"Pax Britannica\" and of the Great Game between the UK and Russia. The balance of power between the Great Powers became a major influence in European politics, prompting Otto von Bismarck to say \"All politics reduces itself to this formula: try to be one of three, as long as the world is governed by the unstable equilibrium of five great powers.\"\n\nOver time, the relative power of these five nations fluctuated, which by the dawn of the 20th century had served to create an entirely different balance of power. Some, such as the United Kingdom and Prussia (as the founder of the newly formed German state), experienced continued economic growth and political power. Others, such as Russia and Austria-Hungary, stagnated. At the same time, other states were emerging and expanding in power, largely through the process of industrialization. These countries seeking to attain great power status were: Italy after the Risorgimento, Japan after the Meiji Restoration, and the United States after its civil war. By the dawn of the 20th century, the balance of world power had changed substantially since the Congress of Vienna. The Eight-Nation Alliance was a belligerent alliance of eight nations against the Boxer Rebellion in China. It formed in 1900 and consisted of the five Congress powers plus Italy, Japan, and the United States, representing the great powers at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nShifts of international power have most notably occurred through major conflicts. The conclusion of the Great War and the resulting treaties of Versailles, St-Germain, Neuilly, Trianon and Sèvres witnessed the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Japan, and the United States as the chief arbiters of the new world order. In the aftermath of World War I the German Empire was defeated, the Austria-Hungarian empire was divided into new, less powerful states and the Russian Empire fell to a revolution. During the Paris Peace Conference, the \"Big Four\" – France, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States – held noticeably more power and influence on the proceedings and outcome of the treaties than Japan. The Big Four were leading architects of the Treaty of Versailles which was signed by Germany; the Treaty of St. Germain, with Austria; the Treaty of Neuilly, with Bulgaria; the Treaty of Trianon, with Hungary; and the Treaty of Sèvres, with the Ottoman Empire. During the decision-making of the Treaty of Versailles, Italy pulled out of the conference because a part of its demands were not met and temporarily left the other three countries as the sole major architects of that treaty, referred to as the \"Big Three\".\n\nThe victorious great powers also gained an acknowledgement of their status through permanent seats at the League of Nations Council, where they acted as a type of executive body directing the Assembly of the League. However, the Council began with only four permanent members – the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Japan – because the United States, meant to be the fifth permanent member, did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles, thus preventing American participation in the League. Germany later joined, and left along with Japan, and the Soviet Union joined.\n\nWhen World War II started in 1939, it divided the world into two alliances: the Allies (the United Kingdom and France at first in Europe, China in Asia since 1937, followed in 1941 by the Soviet Union and the United States) and the Axis powers (Germany, Italy, and Japan). During World War II, the United States, United Kingdom, and Soviet Union controlled Allied policy and emerged as the \"Big Three\". The Republic of China and the Big Three were referred as a \"trusteeship of the powerful\" and were recognized as the Allied \"Big Four\" in Declaration by United Nations in 1942. These four countries were referred as the \"Four Policemen\" of the Allies and considered as the primary victors of World War II. The importance of France was acknowledged by their inclusion, along with the other four, in the group of countries allotted permanent seats in the United Nations Security Council.\n\nSince the end of the World Wars, the term \"great power\" has been joined by a number of other power classifications. Foremost among these is the concept of the superpower, used to describe those nations with overwhelming power and influence in the rest of the world. It was first coined in 1944 by William T. R. Fox and according to him, there were three superpowers: the British Empire, the United States, and the Soviet Union. But after World War II the British Empire lost its superpower status, leaving the United States and the Soviet Union as the world's superpowers. The term middle power has emerged for those nations which exercise a degree of global influence, but are insufficient to be decisive on international affairs. Regional powers are those whose influence is generally confined to their region of the world.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Asian power of Japan and the European powers of the United Kingdom, France, and West Germany rebuilt their economies. France and the United Kingdom maintained technologically advanced armed forces with power projection capabilities and maintain large defence budgets to this day. Yet, as the Cold War continued, authorities began to question if France and the United Kingdom could retain their long-held statuses as great powers. China, with the world's largest population, has slowly risen to great power status, with large growth in economic and military power in the post-war period. After 1949, the Republic of China began to lose its recognition as the sole legitimate government of China by the other great powers, in favour of the People's Republic of China. Subsequently, in 1971, it lost its permanent seat at the UN Security Council to the People's Republic of China.\n\nAccording to Joshua Baron, a \"researcher, lecturer, and consultant on international conflict\", since the early 1960s direct military conflicts and major confrontations have \"receded into the background\" with regards to relations among the great powers. Baron argues several reasons why this is the case, citing the unprecedented rise of the United States and its predominant position as the key reason. Baron highlights that since World War Two no other great power has been able to achieve parity or near parity with the United States, with the exception of the Soviet Union for a brief time. This position is unique among the great powers since the start of the modern era (the 16th century), where there has traditionally always been \"tremendous parity among the great powers\". This unique period of American primacy has been an important factor in maintaining a condition of peace between the great powers.\n\nAnother important factor is the apparent consensus among Western great powers that military force is no longer an effective tool of resolving disputes among their peers. This \"subset\" of great powers – France, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States – consider maintaining a \"state of peace\" as desirable. As evidence, Baron outlines that since the Cuban missile crisis (1962) during the Cold War, these influential Western nations have resolved all disputes among the great powers peacefully at the United Nations and other forums of international discussion.\n\nReferring to great power relations pre-1960, Baron highlights that starting from around the 16th century and the rise of several European great powers, military conflicts and confrontations was the defining characteristic of diplomacy and relations between such powers. \"Between 1500 and 1953, there were 64 wars in which at least one great power was opposed to another, and they averaged little more than five years in length. During this approximately 450-year time frame, on average, at least two great powers were fighting one another in each and every year.\" Even during the period of \"Pax Britannica\" (or \"the British Peace\") between 1815 and 1914, war and military confrontations among the great powers was still a frequent occurrence. In fact, Baron points out that, in terms of militarized conflicts or confrontations, the UK led the way in this period with nineteen such instances against; Russia (8), France (5), Germany/Prussia (5) and Italy (1).\n\nChina, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States are often referred to as great powers by academics due to \"their political and economic dominance of the global arena\". These five nations are the only states to have permanent seats with veto power on the UN Security Council. They are also the only state entities to have met the conditions to be considered \"Nuclear Weapons States\" under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and maintain military expenditures which are among the largest in the world. However, there is no unanimous agreement among authorities as to the current status of these powers or what precisely defines a great power. For example, sources have at times referred to China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom as middle powers.\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union, its UN Security Council permanent seat was transferred to the Russian Federation in 1991, as its successor state. The newly formed Russian Federation emerged on the level of a great power, leaving the United States as the only remaining global superpower (although some support a multipolar world view).\n\nJapan and Germany are great powers too, though due to their large advanced economies (having the third and fourth largest economies respectively) rather than their strategic and hard power capabilities (i.e., the lack of permanent seats and veto power on the UN Security Council or strategic military reach). Germany has been a member together with the five permanent Security Council members in the P5+1 grouping of world powers. Like China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom; Germany and Japan have also been referred to as middle powers.\nIn his 2014 publication \"Great Power Peace and American Primacy\", Joshua Baron considers China, France, Russia, Germany, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States as the current great powers.\n\nItaly has been referred to as a great power by a number of academics and commentators throughout the post WWII era. The American international legal scholar Milena Sterio writes: Sterio also cites Italy's status in the Group of Seven (G7) and the nation's influence in regional and international organizations for its status as a great power. Italy has been a member together with the five permanent Security Council members Plus Germany in the ISG for Lebanon grouping of world powers. Some analysts assert that Italy is an \"intermittent\" or the \"least of the great powers\", while some others believe Italy is a middle or regional power.\n\nIn addition to these contemporary great powers mentioned above, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Mohan Malik consider India to be a great power too. Although unlike the contemporary great powers who have long been considered so, India's recognition among authorities as a great power is comparatively recent. However, there is no collective agreement among observers as to the status of India, for example, a number of academics believe that India is emerging as a great power, while some believe that India remains a middle power.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council, NATO Quint, the G7, the BRICs and the Contact Group have all been described as great power concerts.\n\nWith continuing European integration, the European Union is increasingly being seen as a great power in its own right, with representation at the WTO and at G7 and G-20 summits. This is most notable in areas where the European Union has exclusive competence (i.e. economic affairs). It also reflects a non-traditional conception of Europe's world role as a global \"civilian power\", exercising collective influence in the functional spheres of trade and diplomacy, as an alternative to military dominance. The European Union is a supranational union and not a sovereign state and has its own foreign affairs and defence policy. Anyway these remain largely with the member states of the European Union, which includes France, Germany and the United Kingdom (referred to as the \"EU three\").\n\nBrazil and India are widely regarded as emerging powers with the potential to be great powers. Political scientist Stephen P. Cohen asserts that India is an emerging power, but highlights that some strategists consider India to be already a great power. Some academics such as Zbigniew Brzezinski and David A. Robinson already regard India as a major or great power. Others suggest India may even have the potential to emerge as a superpower.\n\nPermanent membership of the UN Security Council is widely regarded as being a central tenet of great power status in the modern world; Brazil, Germany, India and Japan form the G4 nations which support one another (and have varying degrees of support from the existing permanent members) in becoming permanent members. The G4 is opposed by the Italian-led Uniting for Consensus group. There are however few signs that reform of the Security Council will happen in the near future.\n\nIsrael and Iran, are also mentioned in the context of great powers.\n\nThe political scientist, geo-strategist, and former US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski appraised the current standing of the great powers in his 2012 publication \"Strategic Vision: America and the Crisis of Global Power\". In relation to great powers, he makes the following points:\nAccording to a 2014 report of the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies:\nTimelines of the great powers since the end of the Napoleonic Wars in the early 19th century:\n\n"}
{"id": "51379927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51379927", "title": "Hande Kader", "text": "Hande Kader\n\nHande Kader was a politically active Turkish transgender woman. Kader was familiar to millions of Turks as a figurehead for the LGBT community after being photographed at the forefront of the resistance against police forces suppressing the 2015 Gay Pride event in Istanbul. In August 2016, she was reported missing by her flatmate Davut Dengiler when she failed to return home the following week. Her body was found raped, mutilated, and burnt by the roadside in the Zekeriyaköy up-market on August 12, 2016. Despite being badly mutilated, Kader's body was identified by prosthetics at the city morgue by Dengiler.\n\nKader was employed in the sex industry as a sex worker, and was last seen getting into a client's car. She was 23 years old at the time of her death. The official cause of death has not yet been released. Reports indicate that after death her corpse was set on fire, possibly to avoid identification of the perpetrator(s).\n\nFollowing her death, there has been a public outcry and protests against the mistreatment of transgender people in Turkish society.\n\nBoğaziçi Üniversitesi LGBTİ+ Studies Student Club announced a fellowship in honor of Hande Kader that will be given to a trans student at the university starting from 2017-2018 academic year. However, the office of the president later announced that the fellowship was not within their knowledge and reimbursed the donations.\n\n"}
{"id": "3414566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3414566", "title": "Hard Hat Riot", "text": "Hard Hat Riot\n\nThe Hard Hat Riot occurred on May 8, 1970, in New York City. It started around noon when about 200 construction workers mobilized by the New York State AFL-CIO attacked some 1,000 college and high school students and others who were protesting the May 4 Kent State shootings, the Vietnam War, and the April 30 announcement by President Richard Nixon of the U.S. invasion of Cambodia. The Hard Hat Riot, breaking out first near the intersection of Wall Street and Broad Street in Lower Manhattan, soon spilled into New York City Hall, and lasted approximately two hours. More than 70 people, including four policemen, were injured on what became known as \"Bloody Friday\". Six people were arrested.\n\nOn May 4, 1970, thirteen students were shot, four of them fatally, at Kent State University in Ohio by National Guardsmen as they protested the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War and U.S. incursions into Cambodia. As a show of sympathy for the dead students, Republican Mayor of New York City John Lindsay ordered all flags at New York City Hall to be flown at half-staff the same day.\n\nThe U.S. labor movement was deeply divided over support for President Richard Nixon's Vietnam War policy. AFL-CIO president George Meany and most labor leaders in the United States were vehemently anti-communist and thus strongly supported U.S. military involvement in Southeast Asia.\n\nOne of the strongest supporters of the President's war policy was Peter J. Brennan, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, an alliance of building and construction unions in the New York City area. He was also president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of New York, the statewide umbrella group for construction unions. Additionally, he served as the vice president of the New York City Central Labor Council and the New York State AFL-CIO, umbrella groups for all labor unions in these respective areas. Brennan was a registered Democrat who had lobbied strongly for Democrats through the 1950s and 1960s, but increasingly supported Republican candidates as support for skilled labor unions decreased. The building and construction unions were overwhelmingly white, Catholic, blue-collar and male; large majorities of these supported Nixon's Vietnam policy.\n\nShortly after the Kent State shootings, anti-war protesters announced that they would hold a rally near city hall to commemorate the four dead students. Brennan decided to organize a counter-rally of construction workers to show support for the Nixon administration.\n\nAt 7:30 am on May 8, several-hundred anti-war protesters (most of them high school and college students) began holding a memorial at Broad and Wall streets for the four dead students at Kent State. By late morning, the protesters—now numbering more than a thousand—had moved to the steps of Federal Hall National Memorial, gathering in front of the statue of George Washington which tops the steps. The protesters demanded an end to the war in Vietnam and Cambodia, the release of political prisoners in the United States, and an end to military-related research on all university campuses.\n\nAt 11:45 am, about 200 construction workers converged on the student rally at Federal Hall from four directions. Nearly all the construction workers carried U.S. flags and signs that read \"All the way, USA\" and \"America, love it or leave it\". Their numbers may have been doubled by others who had joined them as they marched toward Federal Hall. A thin and inadequate line of police, who were largely sympathetic to the workers' position, formed to separate the construction workers from the anti-war protesters. At first, the construction workers only pushed but did not break through the police line. After two minutes, however, they broke through the police line and began chasing students through the streets. The workers chose those with the longest hair and beat them with their hard hats and other weapons, including clubs and steel-toe boots. Onlookers reported that the police stood by and did nothing.\n\nSome of the construction workers and counter-protesters moved across City Hall Park toward city hall. They mounted the steps, planted their flags at the top of the steps, then attempted to gain entrance. Police on duty at city hall initially barred them, but soon the mob pushed past. A few workers entered the building. A postal worker rushed onto the roof of city hall and raised the U.S. flag there to full mast. When city workers lowered the flag back down to half-mast, a large number of construction workers stormed past the police. Deputy Mayor Richard Aurelio, fearing the building would be overrun by the mob, ordered city workers to raise the flag back to full mast.\n\nRioting construction workers also attacked buildings near city hall; most were of Irish Catholic extraction and some ripped the Red Cross and Episcopal Church flags down from a flagpole at nearby Trinity Church. One group invaded two nearby Pace University buildings, smashing lobby windows with clubs and crowbars and beating up students. More than 70 people were injured, including four policemen. Most of the injured required hospital treatment. Six people were arrested.\n\nDuring a press conference that evening, President Nixon tried to defuse the situation before tens of thousands of students arrived in Washington, D.C. for a scheduled protest rally the next day. Nixon told these protesters that he agreed with what they were trying to accomplish, and defended the recent U.S. troop movements into Cambodia as aiding their goal of peace.\n\nMayor Lindsay severely criticized the police for their lack of action. NYC police leaders later accused Lindsay of \"undermining the confidence of the public in its police department\" by his statements, and blamed the inaction on inadequate preparations and \"inconsistent directives\" in the past from the mayor's office.\n\nOn May 11, Brennan and officials of other unions claimed the confrontation had been a spontaneous reaction by union workers allegedly \"fed up\" with violence and flag desecration by antiwar demonstrators, and denied that anything except fists had been used against the demonstrators. Brennan claimed telephone calls and letters to the unions were 20 to 1 in favor of the workers. One man, Edward Shufro, of the brokerage firm Rose and Ehrman, saw two men wearing grey suits directing the workers.\n\nSeveral thousand construction workers, longshoremen and white-collar workers protested against the Mayor on May 11, holding signs reading \"impeach the Red Mayor\" and chanting \"Lindsay is a bum\". They held another rally May 16, carrying signs calling the mayor a \"rat\", \"commy rat\" and \"traitor\". Mayor Lindsay described the mood of the city as \"taut\".\n\nThe rallies culminated in a large rally on May 20 in which an estimated 150,000 pro-war protesters marched without opposition through the streets of downtown Manhattan. Some workers in surrounding buildings showed their support by showering the marchers with ticker tape.\n\nOn May 26, Brennan led a delegation of 22 union leaders to meet with President Nixon at the White House and presented him with a hard hat. Nixon general counsel Charles Colson, in charge of developing a strategy to win union support for Nixon in the 1972 presidential election, identified Brennan as a friendly labor leader due to his role in organizing the counter-protests of May 8, 16, and 20. Brennan later met privately with Nixon on Labor Day.\n\nBrennan later organized significant labor union political support for Nixon in the 1972 election. Nixon appointed Brennan as his labor secretary after the election as a reward for his support. Brennan was retained as U.S. Secretary of Labor by President Gerald Ford into 1975 following Nixon's resignation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3429470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3429470", "title": "History of the Indian National Congress", "text": "History of the Indian National Congress\n\nFrom its foundation on 28 December 1885 by A.O. Hume, a retired British officer, until the time India gained its independence on 15 August 1947, the Indian National Congress was considered to be the largest and most prominent Indian public organization, as well as the central and defining influence of the long Indian Independence Movement.\n\nAfter India became independent, Mahatma Gandhi asked the leaders to dissolve Indian National Congress, and to form a new organisation to govern the nation.\n\nRetired British Indian Civil Service (ICS) officer Allan Octavian Hume founded the Indian National Congress (A political party of India (British India to Free India)) in order to form a platform for civic and political dialogue among educated Indians. After the Indian Rebellion of 1857, control of India was transferred from the East India Company to the British Empire. British-controlled India, known as the British Raj, or just the Raj, worked to try to support and justify its governance of India with the aid of English-educated Indians, who tended to more familiar with and friendly to British culture and political thinking. Ironically, a few of the reasons that the Congress grew and survived, particularly in the 19th century era of undisputed British dominance or hegemony, was through the patronage of British authorities and the rising class of Indians and Anglo-Indians educated in the English language-based British tradition.\n\nHume embarked on an endeavor to get an organization started by reaching-out to selected alumni of the University of Calcutta. In an 1883 letter, he wrote that, Every nation secures precisely as good a Government as it merits. If you, the picked men, the most highly educated of the nation, cannot, scorning personal ease and selfish objects, make a resolute struggle to secure greater freedom for yourselves and your country, a more impartial administration, a larger share in the management of your own affairs, then we, your friends, are wrong and our adversaries right, then are Lord Ripon's noble aspirations for your good fruitless and visionary, then, at present at any rate all hopes of progress are at an end[,] and India truly neither desires nor deserves any better Government than she enjoys.\n\nIn May of 1885, Hume secured the viceroy's approval to create an \"Indian National Union\", which would be affiliated with the government and act as a platform to voice Indian public opinion. The following 12 October, Hume and a group of educated Indians published \"An Appeal from the People of India to the Electors of Great Britain and Ireland\" which asked British voters in the 1885 British general election to support candidates sympathetic to the positions of Indians. These included opposition to taxation of India to finance British campaigns in Afghanistan, and support for legislative reform in India. The appeal however, was a failure, and was interpreted by many Indians as \"a rude shock, but a true realization that they had to fight their battles alone.\" \n\nOn 28 December 1885, the Indian National Congress was founded at Gokuldas Tejpal Sanskrit College in Bombay, with 72 delegates in attendance. Hume assumed office as the General Secretary, and Womesh Chunder Bonnerjee of Calcutta was elected President. Besides Hume, two additional British members (both Scottish civil servants) were members of the founding group, William Wedderburn and Justice (later, Sir) John Jardine. The other members were mostly Hindus from the Bombay and Madras Presidencies. \n\nEven before independence of India, the Indian National Congress had well articulated foreign policy positions. In the words of Rejaul Karim Laskar, a scholar of Indian foreign policy and an ideologue of Indian National Congress, \"Right after the establishment of the Indian National Congress, it started articulating its views on foreign affairs. In its first session in 1885, the Indian National Congress deplored the annexation of upper Burma by British Indian Government.\" \n\nMany Muslim community leaders, like the prominent educationalist Syed Ahmed Khan, viewed the Congress negatively, owing to its membership being dominated by Hindus. Orthodox Hindu community and religious leaders were also averse, seeing the Congress as supportive of Western cultural invasion.\n\nThe ordinary people of India were not informed of or concerned about its existence on the whole, for the Congress never attempted to address the issues of poverty, lack of health care, social oppression, and the prejudiced negligence of the people's concerns by British authorities. The perception of bodies like the Congress was that of an elitist, then educated and wealthy people's institution.\n\nThe first spurts of nationalistic sentiment that rose amongst Congress members were when the desire to be represented in the bodies of government, to have a say, a vote in the lawmaking and issues of administration of India. Congressmen saw themselves as loyalists, but wanted an active role in governing their own country, albeit as part of the Empire.\n\nThis trend was personified by Dadabhai Naoroji, considered by many as the eldest Indian statesman. Naoroji went as far as contesting, successfully, an election to the British House of Commons, becoming its first Indian member. That he was aided in his campaign by young, aspiring Indian student activists like Muhammad Ali Jinnah, describes where the imagination of the new Indian generation lay.\n\nBal Gangadhar Tilak was among the first Indian nationalists to embrace \"swaraj\" as the destiny of the nation. Tilak deeply opposed the British education system that ignored and defamed India's culture, history, and values, defying and disgracing the India culture. He resented the denial of freedom of expression for nationalists, and the lack of any voice or role for ordinary Indians in the affairs of their nation. For these reasons, he considered \"swaraj\" as the natural and only solution: the abandonment of all the British things and to protect the Indian economy from the exploitation of the British, and their biased and discriminatory policies. He was backed by rising public leaders like Bipin Chandra Pal and Lala Lajpat Rai, Aurobindo Ghose, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai who held the same point of view. Under them, India's four great states – Madras, Bombay, Bengal, and Punjab region shaped the demand of the people and India's nationalism.\n\nThe moderates, led by Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Pherozeshah Mehta, and Dadabhai Naoroji, held firm to calls for negotiations and political dialogue. Gokhale criticized Tilak for encouraging acts of violence and disorder. The Congress of 1906 did not have public membership, and thus Tilak and his supporters were forced to leave the party.\n\nWith Tilak's arrest, all hopes for an Indian offensive were stalled. The Congress lost credit with the people. Muslims formed the All India Muslim League in 1906, considering the Congress as completely unsuitable for Indian Muslims.\n\nWhen the British entered the British Indian Army into World War I, it provoked the first definitive, nationwide political debate of its kind in India. Voices calling for political independence grew in number.\n\nThe divided Congress re-united in the pivotal Lucknow session in 1916, with efforts of Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Tilak had considerably moderated his views, and now favoured political dialogue with the British. He, along with the young Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Mrs. Annie Besant launched the Home Rule Movement to put forth Indian demands for \"Home Rule\" – Indian participation in the affairs of their own country – a precursor to \"Swaraj\". The All India Home Rule League was formed to demand dominion status within the Empire.\n\nBut another Indian man with another way was destined to lead the Congress and the Indian struggle. Mohandas Gandhi was a lawyer who had successfully led the struggle of Indians in South Africa against British discriminatory laws. Returning to India in 1915, Gandhi looked to Indian culture and history, the values and lifestyle of its people to empower a new revolution, with the concept of non-violence, civil disobedience, he coined a term, \"Satyagraha\".\n\nMohandas Karmchand Gandhi, who later on became more popular as Mahatma Gandhi, had success in defeating the British in Champaran and Kheda, giving India its first victory in the struggle for freedom. Then Indian National Congress had supported that movement; Indians gained confidence in the working of that organization that the British could be thwarted through that organization, and millions of young people from across the country flooded into Congress membership.\n\nA whole class of political leaders disagreed with Gandhi. Bipin Chandra Pal, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Annie Besant, Bal Gangadhar Tilak all criticized the idea of civil disobedience. But Gandhi had the backing of the people and a whole new generation of Indian nationalists as well as British Raj.\n\nIn a series of sessions in 1918, 1919 and 1920, where the old and the new generations clashed in famous and important debates, Gandhi and his young supporters imbued the Congress rank-and-file with passion and energy to combat British rule directly. With the tragedy of the 1919 Amritsar Massacre and the riots in Punjab, Indian anger and passions were palpable and radical. With the election of Mohandas K. Gandhi to the presidency of the Indian National Congress, the battle of the party's soul was won, and a new path to India's destiny forged.\n\nLokmanya Tilak, whom Gandhi had called \"The Father of Modern India\" died in 1920, and Gopal Krishna Gokhale had died four years earlier. Motilal Nehru, Lala Lajpat Rai and some other stalwarts backed Gandhi as they were not sure that they can lead the people like Tilak and Gokhale. Thus it was now entirely up to Gandhi's Congress to show the way for the nation.\n\nIn the years after the World War, the Congress expanded considerably, owing to public excitement after Gandhi's success in Champaran and Kheda. A whole new generation of leaders arose from different parts of India, who were committed Gandhians Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Chakravarti Rajagopalachari, Narhari Parikh, Mahadev Desai — as well as hot-blooded nationalists aroused by Gandhi's active leadership — Chittaranjan Das, Subhas Chandra Bose, Srinivasa Iyengar.\n\nGandhi transformed the Congress from an elitist party based in the cities, to an organization of the people:\n\nDuring the 1920s, M.K. Gandhi encouraged tens of thousands of Congress volunteers to embrace a wide variety of organized tasks to address major social problems across India. Under the guidance of Congress committees and Gandhi's network of ashrams in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu, the Congress attacked:\nThis profound work by M. K. Gandhi impressed the people of India particularly, formations of ashrams, that in later period he was mentioned as Mahatma, Great soul, by way of honor, by people of India.\n\nUnder the Government of India Act 1935, the Congress first tasted political power in the provincial elections of 1937. It performed very well, coming to power in eight of the eleven provinces where elections were held. Its internal organization bloomed in the diversity of political attitudes and ideologies. The focus would change slightly from the single-minded devotion to complete independence, to also entertaining excitement and theorizing about the future governance of the nation. However, when the Viceroy Lord Linlithgow declared India a belligerent in World War II without any consultation with the elected representatives of the people, the Congress ministries resigned.\n\nThe radical followers of Subhas Chandra Bose, believers in socialism and active revolution would ascend in the hierarchy with Bose's 1938 election to the Congress presidency.\n\nAccording to one approach, the traditionalist point of view, though not in a political sense, was represented in Congressmen like Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, C.Rajagopalachari, Purushottam Das Tandon, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan and Maulana Azad, who were also associates and followers of Gandhi. Their organizational strength, achieved through leading the clashes with the government, was undisputed and proven when despite winning the 1939 election, Bose resigned the Congress presidency because of the lack of confidence he enjoyed amongst national leaders. A year earlier, in the 1938 election, however, Bose had been elected with the support of Gandhi. Differences arose in 1939 on whether Bose should have a second term. Jawaharlal Nehru, who Gandhi had always preferred to Bose, had had a second term earlier. Bose's own differences centred on the place to be accorded to non-violent as against revolutionary methods. When he set up his Indian National Army in South-east Asia during the Second World War, he invoked Gandhi's name and hailed him as the Father of The Nation.\nIt would be wrong to suggest that the so-called traditionalist leaders looked merely to the ancient heritage of Indian, Asian or, in the case of Maulana Azad and Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Islamic civilization for inspiration. They believed, along with educationists like Zakir Husain and E W Aryanayakam, that education should be imparted in a manner that enables the learners also to be able to make things with their own hands and learn skills that would make them self-supporting. This method of education was also adopted in some areas in Egypt. (See Reginald Reynolds, Beware of Africans). Zakir Husain was inspired by some European educationists and was able, with Gandhi's support, to dovetail this approach to the one favoured by the Basic Education method introduced by the Indian freedom movement. They believed that the education system, economy and social justice model for a future nation should be designed to suit the specific local requirements. While most were open to the benefits of Western influences and the socio-economic egalitarianism of socialism, they were opposed to being defined by either model.\n\nThe last important episodes in the Congress involved the final step to independence, and the division of the country on the basis of religions.\n\nChakravarthi Rajagopalachari, the prominent leader from Tamil Nadu resigned from the Congress to actively advocate supporting the British war effort.\nit was started in 1942.\n\nDuring the INA trials of 1946, the Congress helped to form the INA Defence Committee, which forcefully defended the case of the soldiers of the Azad Hind government. The committee declared the formation of the Congress' defence team for the INA and included famous lawyers of the time, including Bhulabhai Desai, Asaf Ali, and Jawaharlal Nehru. QUIT INDIA BILL passed on 8 Aug 1942.\n\nSome members of the Congress initially supported the sailors who led the Royal Indian Navy Mutiny. However, they withdrew support at the critical juncture, as the mutiny failed.\n\nWithin the Congress, the Partition was opposed by Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, Saifuddin Kitchlew, Dr. Khan Sahib and Congressmen from the provinces that would inevitably become parts of Pakistan. Maulana Azad opposed partition in principle, but did not wish to impede the national leadership; preferred to stay with Indian side. \n\nIn the Assembly and Constitution debates, the Congress attitude was marked by inclusiveness and liberalism. The Government appointed some prominent Indians who were Raj loyalists and liberals to important offices, and did not adopt any punitive control over the Indian civil servants who had aided the Raj in its governance of India and suppression of nationalist activities.\n\nA Congress-dominated Assembly adopted B.R. Ambedkar, a fierce Congress critic as the chairman of the Constitution draft committee. Syama Prasad Mookerjee, a Hindu Mahasabha leader became the Minister for Industry.\n\nThe Congress stood firm on its fundamental promises and delivered a Constitution that abolished untouchability and discrimination based on caste, religion or gender. Primary education was made a right, and Congress governments made the zamindar system illegal, created minimum wages and authorized the right to strike and form labor unions.\n\nIn 1947, the Congress presidency passed upon Jivatram Kripalani, a veteran Gandhian and ally of both Nehru and Patel. India's duumvirate expressed neutrality and full support to the elected winner of the 1947, 1948 and 1949 presidential races.\n\nHowever, a tug of war began between Nehru and his socialist wing, and Patel and Congress traditionalists broke out in 1950's race. Nehru lobbied intensely to oppose the candidacy of Purushottam Das Tandon, whom he perceived as a Hindu revivalist with \"problematic\" views on Hindu-Muslim relations. Nehru openly backed Kripalani to oppose Tandon, but neglected courtesy to Patel upon the question.\n\nWith Patel's tacit support (especially in Patel's home state of Gujarat, where due to Patel's work, Kripalani received not one vote) Tandon won a tight contest, and Nehru threatened to resign. With Patel's convincing, Nehru did not quit.\n\nHowever, with Patel's death in 1950, the balance shifted permanently in Nehru's favor. Kripalani, C. Rajagopalachari and Tandon were marginalized, and the Congress Party's election fortunes began depending solely on Nehru's leadership and popularity. With the 1952 election sweep, the Congress became India's main political party.\n\n\nCongress Leaders Website\n\n"}
{"id": "22512663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22512663", "title": "Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria", "text": "Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria\n\nThe Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria (also Yesha Human Rights Organization () is an Israeli non-governmental organization (NGO) headed by Orit Strook.\n\nThe organization was established in 1999. Its stated goals are to defend the human and civil rights of Jewish Israelis living in the West Bank, and formerly in the Gaza Strip. The organization say that these citizens - commonly referred to as settlers - are not adequately defended by other human rights organizations it identifies as left-wing, such as B'Tselem. The organization cooperates and uses the legal advice of the .\n\nOne aspect of its activities is to report on alleged discrimination of settlers by the Israeli Police.\n"}
{"id": "2348871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348871", "title": "Immigration Department (Hong Kong)", "text": "Immigration Department (Hong Kong)\n\nThe Immigration Department (, known as 人民入境事務處 before the 1997 transfer of sovereignty) of the Government of Hong Kong is responsible for immigration control of Hong Kong. After the People's Republic of China assumed sovereignty of the territory in July 1997, Hong Kong's immigration system remained largely unchanged from its British predecessor model. Residents from mainland China do not have the right of abode in Hong Kong, nor can they enter the territory freely, both before and after 1997. There are different regulations that apply to residents of Macau, another Special Administrative Region of China. In addition, visa-free entry acceptance regulations into Hong Kong for passport holders of some 170 countries remain unchanged before and after 1997.\n\nIn a special arrangement, although Hong Kong's residents of Chinese descent are defined as citizens of the People's Republic of China, as stipulated by the Basic Law, Hong Kong's Immigration Department is independently responsible for issuing Hong Kong SAR passports for Hong Kong residents who are also PRC citizens seeking international travel.\n\nPrior to the 1950s, immigration to Hong Kong was not controlled by the government of Hong Kong and migrants freely entered Hong Kong. But the end of World War II the influx of migrants from China to Hong Kong to flee Communist rule resulted in immigration control.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1961, registration of persons with identification was required under the Registration of Persons Ordinance 1949 and established a Commissioner of Registration.\n\nUntil the establishment of Immigration Department on 4 August 1961, immigration control in Hong Kong was handled by the Hong Kong Police Force. The Immigration Service Ordinance 1961 created the new department in charge of immigration control. Later in 1977, the department enlarged its functions to cover registration of persons by amalgamating with the Registration of Persons Office and Director of Immigration also assumed as Commissioner of Registration. In 1979, the department took over from the Registrar General civil registration duties and the Director of Immigration was appointed as Registrar of Births and Deaths, and Registrar of Marriages.\n\nThe Department is headquartered in the Immigration Tower in Wan Chai North.\n\nThe Department performs the following role.\n\n\n\nThe Immigration Department was responsible for BN(O) passport applications and data prior to 1 July 1997. Prior to the handover, all information was transferred to the British Consulate-General, Hong Kong.\n\nInquiries in regards to BN(O)s are now made to any British diplomatic missions overseas.\n\n\nAs with all of the HK Disciplined Services, British-pattern ranks and insignia continue to be utilised, the only change being the exchange of the St. Edward's Crown for the Bauhinia Flower crest post-1997.\n\n\nThe current crest of the force was adopted in 1997 to replace most of the colonial symbols:\n\n\nSource: Immigration Department (Hong Kong)\n\nInstead of the Smith & Wesson Model 10 revolver widely distributed between disciplinary services in Hong Kong, the officers are trained in the use of, and issued, the ASP expandable baton and the Sabre Red pepper spray for self-defence options.\n\nA type of pepper gun is also standard issue equipment for officers stationed at the Immigration Service Institute of Training and Development, due to one incident of arson at the Immigration Tower in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "24348207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24348207", "title": "James O'Keefe", "text": "James O'Keefe\n\nJames Edward O'Keefe III (born June 28, 1984) is an American conservative political activist. He produces secretly recorded undercover audio and video encounters with figures and workers in academic, governmental, and social service organizations, purporting to show abusive or allegedly illegal behavior by employees and/or representatives of those organizations. He has been criticized for selectively editing videos to misrepresent the context of conversations and the subjects' responses, creating the false impression that people said or did things they did not.\n\nHe gained national attention for his video recordings of workers at Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN) offices in 2009, his arrest and guilty plea in 2010 for entering the federal office of then-U.S. Senator Mary Landrieu (D-LA) under false pretenses, and the release of videos of conversations with two high-ranking, now former, NPR executives in 2011.\nWhen his videos portraying ACORN workers seemingly aiding a couple in criminal planning hit the 24-hour cable news cycle, the U.S. Congress quickly voted to freeze funds for the non-profit. The national controversy resulted in the non-profit also losing most of its private funding before investigations of the videos concluded no illegal activity occurred. In March 2010, ACORN was close to bankruptcy and had to close or rename most of its offices. Shortly after, the California State Attorney General's Office and the US Government Accountability Office released their related investigative reports. The Attorney General's Office found that O'Keefe had misrepresented the actions of ACORN workers in California and that the workers had not broken any laws. A preliminary probe by the GAO found that ACORN had managed its federal funds appropriately. One of the fired ACORN workers sued O'Keefe for invasion of privacy; O'Keefe issued an apology and agreed to pay $100,000 in a settlement.\n\nO'Keefe gained support from far-right conservative media and interest groups. In 2009, Andrew Breitbart commissioned him for the option to publish new videos exclusively on BigGovernment.com. In June 2010, O'Keefe formed a 501(c)(3) organization, Project Veritas.\nJames Edward O'Keefe III was born in Bergen County, New Jersey, the elder of two children of James, a materials engineer, and Deborah O'Keefe, a physical therapist. He has a younger sister.\n\nO'Keefe grew up in Westwood, New Jersey. His home was politically \"conservative but not rigidly so\", according to his father. He graduated from Westwood High School, where he showed an early interest in the arts, theater and journalism. He attained Eagle Scout, the highest rank in the Boy Scouts of America. O'Keefe started at Rutgers University in 2002 and majored in philosophy. Beginning in his sophomore year, he wrote a bi-weekly opinion column for \"The Daily Targum\", the university's student paper. He left the \"Targum\" and founded the \"Rutgers Centurion\", a conservative student paper supported by a $500 \"Balance in the Media\" grant from The Leadership Institute.\n\nFor his first video, he and other \"Centurion\" writers met with Rutgers dining staff to demand the banning of the cereal Lucky Charms from dining halls because of its offense to Irish Americans. O'Keefe said the leprechaun mascot presented a stereotype. He intended to have officials lose either way: to appear insensitive to an ethnic group, or to look silly by agreeing to ban Lucky Charms. They expected to be thrown out of school, but the Rutgers official was courteous, took notes, and said their concerns would be considered. Rutgers staff say the cereal was never taken off the menu.\n\nAfter graduating from Rutgers, O'Keefe worked for a year at the Leadership Institute (LI) in Arlington, Virginia under media specialist Ben Wetmore, whom O'Keefe calls his mentor. The institute sent him to colleges to train students to start conservative independent newspapers, but, after a year LI officials asked him to leave. According to LI president and founder Morton Blackwell, O'Keefe was \"very effective and very enthusiastic\" but after a year he was asked to leave because officials felt his activist work threatened the group's nonprofit status by trying to influence legislation.\n\nO'Keefe has produced and distributed secretly recorded—and at times misleadingly edited—videos and audio files made during staged encounters with targeted entities or individuals. His work takes the form of undercover stings targeted at liberal groups and politicians. He sought to \"embarrass\" and \"damage\" his targets, such as Senator Landrieu and ACORN.\n\nHe has sought to maximize publicity by releasing secretly recorded videos over several days or months, often in relation to funding authorizations or significant political actions related to the subject organization. Many videos received widespread media coverage sparking significant reactions, most notably videos of ACORN which resulted in the Congress quickly freezing funds, two executive agencies canceling contracts, and several ACORN workers being fired, and videos of National Public Radio (NPR) executives which led to the resignation of CEO Vivian Schiller, shortly before Congressional funding hearings involving NPR.\n\nIn January 2010, O'Keefe began a column on Breitbart's website, BigGovernment.com. Breitbart stated in an interview that he paid O'Keefe a salary for his \"life rights\" to gain release of O'Keefe's videos first on his website. In 2010 O'Keefe formed his own organization, Project Veritas, whose stated mission is \"to investigate and expose corruption, dishonesty, self-dealing, waste, fraud, and other misconduct in both public and private institutions in order to achieve a more ethical and transparent society.\"\n\nMuch of the funding for Project Veritas comes from anonymous donations through Donors Trust, a conservative, American nonprofit donor-advised fund, which according to its promotional materials, says that it will \"keep your charitable giving private, especially gifts funding sensitive or controversial issues.\" Prominent donors include the Trump Foundation, which, in May 2015, donated $10,000.\n\nO'Keefe is a conservative activist with mainstream conservative pro-market and anti-government views, although he has described himself as a \"progressive radical\", because he wants to change things, \"not conserve them\". He considers himself a muckraker. O'Keefe has expressed admiration for the philosophy of G.K. Chesterton and for a free press.\n\nIn 2006, O'Keefe met Lila Rose, founder of an anti-abortion group on the UCLA campus. They secretly recorded encounters in Planned Parenthood clinics. Rose posed as a pregnant teenager seeking advice (a 15-year-old girl impregnated by a 23-year-old male); they made two videos and released them on YouTube. In one, a clinic worker in Los Angeles tells Rose \"that she could 'figure out a birth date that works' to avoid having PPLA notify police.\"\n\nIn 2007, O'Keefe phoned several Planned Parenthood clinics and secretly recorded the conversations. He posed as a donor, asking if his donations would be applied to needs of minority women. When told they could be, he made \"race-motivated\" comments. By audio recordings, workers at clinics in six other states agreed to accept his donation under similar terms.\n\nPlanned Parenthood of California filed a \"cease and desist\" order against Lila Rose, charging that she was violating state laws against secret recordings. The order required her to remove the videos from YouTube and give all the recordings to the organization. She complied through her attorney.\n\nAfter O'Keefe's four audio recordings were publicized in 2008, Planned Parenthood of Ohio issued a public response, saying the worker's words were \"a violation of any policy, and it's very upsetting.\" The CEO said, \"Planned Parenthood has a long history of social justice.\" Other offices noted the wide variety of services the organization offers to low income communities. African-American leaders called for withdrawal of public financing of the organization.\n\nIn September 2009, O'Keefe and his associate, Hannah Giles, published edited hidden camera recordings in which Giles posed as a prostitute and O'Keefe as her boyfriend, a law student, in an attempt to elicit damaging responses from employees of the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN), an advocacy organization for 40 years for persons of low and moderate income.\n\nA \"Washington Post\" correspondent reported that O'Keefe \"said he targeted ACORN for the same reasons that the political right does: its massive voter registration drives\", and \"Politicians are getting elected single-handedly due to this organization.\" ACORN mostly registered people from the Latino and African American communities.\n\nThe videos were recorded during the summer of 2009 and appeared to show low-level ACORN employees in six cities providing advice to Giles and O'Keefe on how to avoid detection by authorities of tax evasion, human smuggling and child prostitution. He framed the undercover recordings with a preface of him dressed in a \"pimp\" outfit, which he also wore in TV media interviews. This gave viewers, including the media, the impression that he had dressed that way when speaking to ACORN workers. However, he actually entered the ACORN offices in conservative street clothes (the sleeve of his dress shirt is visible on camera). Furthermore, the ACORN employees involved reported his activities to the police after he left. O'Keefe selectively edited and manipulated his recordings of ACORN employees, as well as distorted the chronologies. Several journalists and media outlets have expressed regret for not properly scrutinizing and vetting his work.\n\nOn April 10, 2012, the political gossip site Wonkette reported that Andrew Breitbart had signed a $120,000 contract for \"life rights\" by O'Keefe and Giles based on the ACORN videos. The contract was paid in monthly increments of $5,000. Giles ultimately received $32,000 before parting ways with Breitbart over what she described in legal depositions as \"a conflict of visions\". O'Keefe ultimately received $65,000.\n\nAfter the videos were released through the fall of 2009, the U.S. Congress quickly voted to freeze federal funding to ACORN. The Census Bureau and the IRS terminated their contract relationships with ACORN. By December 2009, an external investigation of ACORN was published which cleared the organization of any illegality, while noting that its poor management practices contributed to unprofessional actions by some low-level employees. In March 2010, ACORN announced it would dissolve due to loss of funding from government and especially private sources.\n\nOn March 1, 2010, the district attorney for Brooklyn at that time found there was no criminal wrongdoing by the ACORN staff in New York. In late March 2010, Clark Hoyt, then public editor for \"The New York Times\", reviewed the videos, full transcripts and full audio. Hoyt wrote \"The videos were heavily edited. The sequence of some conversations was changed. Some workers seemed concerned for Giles, one advising her to get legal help. In two cities, ACORN workers called the police. But the most damning words match the transcripts and the audio, and do not seem out of context.\"\n\nThe California Attorney General's Office granted O'Keefe and Giles limited immunity from prosecution in exchange for providing the full, unedited videotapes related to ACORN offices in California. The AG's Report was released on April 1, 2010, concluding that the videos from ACORN offices in Los Angeles, San Diego, and San Bernardino had been \"severely edited.\" The report found there was no evidence of criminal conduct on the part of ACORN employees nor any evidence that any employee intended to aid or abet criminal conduct. It found that three employees had tried to deflect the couple's plans, told them ACORN could not offer them help on the grounds they wanted, and otherwise dealt with them appropriately. Such context was not reflected in O'Keefe's edited tapes. The AG's Report noted that \"O'Keefe stated that he was out to make a point and to damage ACORN and therefore did not act as a journalist objectively reporting a story\". It found no evidence of intent by the employees to aid the couple. The report also noted \"a serious and glaring deficit in management, governance and accountability within the ACORN organization\" and said its conduct \"suggests an organizational ethos at odds with the norms of American society. Empowering and serving low-and moderate-income families cannot be squared with counseling and encouraging illegal activities.\"\n\nThe AG's report confirmed that ACORN employee Juan Carlos Vera, shown in O'Keefe's video as apparently aiding a human smuggling proposal, had immediately reported his encounter with the couple to an American police detective at the time to thwart their plan. Following the AG's report, that employee, who had been fired by ACORN after the video's release, sued O'Keefe and Giles in 2010. He alleged invasion of privacy and cited a California law that prohibits recordings without consent of all parties involved.\n\nOn the basis of the edited videotape which O'Keefe released, Vera appeared to be a willing participant in helping with O'Keefe's plan to smuggle young women into the United States illegally. However, authorities confirmed that Mr. Vera immediately contacted them about O'Keefe and that he had also encouraged O'Keefe to share as much information as possible about his scheme and gather further evidence of O'Keefe's purported illegal activities, which could then be used by prosecutors to bring charges against O'Keefe for attempted human trafficking. Due to O'Keefe's release of the dubiously edited video, intentionally designed to \"prove\" that ACORN employees were ready and willing to engage in illicit activities, Mr. Vera lost his job and was falsely accused of being engaged in human trafficking. O'Keefe noted that he \"regrets any pain\" caused by his reckless actions, though O'Keefe's lawyer dismissed any claimed injury incurred by Vera and stated that the payment was a \"nuisance settlement\".\n\nO'Keefe moved for summary judgment in his favor, arguing that the plaintiff had no reasonable expectation that the conversation would be private. In August 2012, the federal judge hearing the case denied O'Keefe's motion for summary judgment. The judge ruled that O'Keefe had \"misled plaintiff to believe that the conversation would remain confidential by posing as a client seeking services from ACORN and asking whether their conversation was confidential.\" On March 5, 2013, O'Keefe agreed to pay $100,000 to former California ACORN employee Juan Carlos Vera for deliberately misrepresenting Mr. Vera's actions, and acknowledged in the settlement that at the time he published his video he was unaware that Vera had notified the police about the incident. The settlement contained the following apology: \"O'Keefe regrets any pain suffered by Mr. Vera or his family.\"\n\nOn June 14, 2010, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) published its report finding no evidence that ACORN, or any of its related organizations, had mishandled any of the $40 million in federal money which they had received in recent years.\n\nO'Keefe and colleagues were arrested in the Hale Boggs Federal Complex in New Orleans in January 2010 and charged with entering federal property under false pretenses with the intent of committing a felony, at the office of United States Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat. His three fellow activists, who were dressed as telephone repairmen when apprehended, included Robert Flanagan, the son of William Flanagan, acting U.S. Attorney of the Eastern District of Louisiana. The four men were charged with malicious intent to damage the phone system. O'Keefe stated that he had entered Landrieu's office to investigate complaints that she was ignoring phone calls from constituents during the debate over President Barack Obama's health care bill.\n\nThe charges in the case were reduced from a felony to a single misdemeanor count of entering a federal building under false pretenses. O'Keefe and the others pleaded guilty on May 26. O'Keefe was sentenced to three years' probation, 100 hours of community service and a $1,500 fine. The other three men received lesser sentences.\n\nIn August 2013, O'Keefe revisited the incident by releasing a video entitled: \"a confrontation with former U.S. Attorney Jim Letten on the campus of Tulane University\". Letten is a former Republican U.S. Attorney who recused himself from the Landrieu incident because he knew the father of one of the men involved. The video shows Letten accusing O'Keefe of \"terrorizing\" Letten's wife at their home, of harassing him, and trespassing on the Tulane campus. He called O'Keefe a \"coward\" and a \"spud\", and referred to O'Keefe and his companions as \"hobbits\" and \"scum\".\n\nOn March 8, 2011, shortly before the US Congress was to vote on funding for National Public Radio (NPR), O'Keefe released a video of a discussion with Ronald Schiller, NPR's senior vice president for fundraising, and associate Betsy Liley. Raw content was secretly recorded by O'Keefe's partners Ken Larrey and Shaughn Adeleye.\n\nIn the videos published by O'Keefe, the NPR executives were shown meeting with representatives of a self-described Muslim charity called the \"Muslim Education Action Center\" that wished to donate money to NPR. At the meeting, the representatives claimed their charity was affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood. NPR responded by stating that Schiller's remarks were presented out of sequence and that he said that he would speak personally, and not for NPR. Schiller said some highly placed Republicans believed the Republican Party had been hijacked by a radical group (the Tea Party) that they characterized as \"Islamophobic\" and \"seriously racist, racist people\", and while Schiller did not disagree, according to NPR, O'Keefe's editing made it appear those were Schiller's opinions. Schiller then says that unlike establishment Republicans, the growing Tea Party movement in the party \"is fanatically involved in people's personal lives and very fundamental Christian — I wouldn't even call it Christian. It's this weird evangelical kind of move.\"\n\nLater in the edited video, Schiller seems to say he believes NPR \"would be better off in the long run without federal funding\", explaining that removal of federal funding would allow NPR more independence and remove the widely held misconception that NPR is significantly funded by the public. But on the raw tape, Schiller also said that withdrawing federal funding would cause local stations to go under and that NPR is doing \"everything we can\" to keep it.\n\nIn a statement released before analysis of the longer raw video, NPR said, \"Schiller's comments are in direct conflict with NPR's official position ... The fraudulent organization represented in this video repeatedly pressed us to accept a $5 million check with no strings attached, which we repeatedly refused to accept.\" After reviewing the unedited video, Scott Baker, editor-in-chief of TheBlaze, said the NPR executives \"seem to be fairly balanced people.\"\n\nJournalists Ben Smith, James Poniewozik, and Dave Weigel have expressed regret for giving O'Keefe's NPR videos wider circulation without scrutinizing them for themselves.\n\nComparison of the raw video with the released one revealed editing that was characterized as \"selective\" and \"deceptive\" by Michael Gerson, opinion writer in \"The Washington Post\", who wrote, \"O'Keefe did not merely leave a false impression; he manufactured an elaborate, alluring lie.\" \"Time\" magazine wrote that the video \"transposed remarks from a different part of the meeting\", was \"manipulative\" and \"a partisan hit-job.\"\n\nThe raw video shows Schiller told the two men \"that donors cannot expect to influence news coverage.\" On the longer tape, he says, \"There is such a big firewall between funding and reporting: Reporters will not be swayed in any way, shape or form.\" The broadcast journalist Al Tompkins, who now teaches at the Poynter Institute, noted that Ron Schiller was a fundraiser, not an official affecting the newsroom. He commented on the raw tape: \"The message that he said most often—I counted six times: He told these two people that he had never met before that you cannot buy coverage\", Tompkins said. \"He says it over and over and over again.\n\nOn March 17, Martha T. Moore of \"USA Today\" reported: \"According to \"The Blaze\" analysis, Ron Schiller's most inflammatory remarks, that Tea Party members are 'seriously racist', were made as he was recounting the views of Republicans he has spoken with—although he does not appear to disagree. It also shows Schiller appearing to laugh about the potential spread of Islamic \"sharia\" law, when the longer version shows he laughed in reaction to something completely different.\"\n\nTwo days later, O'Keefe released a video in which Betsy Liley, senior director of institutional giving at NPR, appeared to have checked with senior management and said MEAC was cleared to make donations anonymously and NPR could help shield donations from government audits, but added that, in order to proceed, additional background information would be required, including an IRS Form 990. Liley advised the caller that NPR executives would investigate them before accepting any large donation, examining tax records and checking out other organizations that have received donations from them. Liley raises the possibility of NPR's turning down substantial gifts and stresses the \"firewall\" between the revenue-generating part of NPR and its news operation. NPR put Liley on administrative leave. In emails released following the publication of the Liley video, NPR confirmed that the official had consulted appropriately with top management and notified the purported donors of problems with their desired method of donation.\n\nRonald Schiller, who had already submitted his resignation back in January so that he could join the Aspen Institute, moved up his resignation after the video release when NPR put him on administrative leave. CEO Vivian Schiller (no relation to Ronald Schiller) announced she was resigning, effective immediately.\n\nA month before the launch of Donald Trump's presidential campaign, the Trump Foundation donated $10,000 to O'Keefe's Project Veritas. O'Keefe attended, as a guest of the Trump campaign, the final presidential debate, and was later available in the spin room following the Las Vegas event.\n\nIn response to reports alleging a connection between the videos and the Trump campaign, a spokesperson for Project Veritas stated, \"We have a multi-million dollar budget and the cost of this video series alone is way up there. The donation Trump provided didn't impact our actions one way or the other.\"\n\nOn October 18, 2016, O'Keefe released a series of videos on Project Veritas' YouTube channel titled \"Rigging the Election\" that apparently showed former national field director Scott Foval of Americans United for Change discussing planting agitators, including \"mentally ill people that we pay to do shit\" in front of Donald Trump rallies to ask questions near reporters, a common practice known as \"bird dogging\". Foval also said \"We've been bussing people in to deal with you fuckin' assholes for fifty years and we're not going to stop now.\" Foval later said he was talking about busing people to rallies. Foval went on to discuss the legal consequences of voter fraud: \"Let's just say, in theory, if a major investigation came up of major vote fraud that way, how would they prove it? ... If there's a bus involved, that changes the dynamic ... You can prove conspiracy if there's a bus, but if there are cars, it is much harder to prove.\" The accuracy of the videos has been questioned for possibly omitting context, and the unedited raw footage has not been made available.\n\nDNC Chair Donna Brazile said the video footage omitted necessary context. Scott Foval was fired by Americans United for Change after the first video was released. Foval later said he had been set up. Robert Creamer a DNC consultant and husband of U.S. Representative Jan Schakowsky, D-IL, said, \"We regret the unprofessional and careless hypothetical conversations that were captured on hidden cameras of a regional contractor for our firm, and he is no longer working with us,\" he said. \"While none of the schemes described in the conversations ever took place, these conversations do not at all reflect the values of Democracy Partners.\" Shortly afterwards, Creamer, who was also featured in the video, said he would end his consulting arrangement with the DNC to avoid becoming a \"distraction\".\n\nFollowing the publication of his videos, O'Keefe filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) against the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton and the DNC, alleging \"a criminal conspiracy\" involving the Clinton campaign, the DNC and three left-leaning super PACs. On June 1, 2017, Creamer's firm, Democracy Partners, filed a $1 million lawsuit against Project Veritas, claiming Project Veritas had lied to gain access to the firm and violating anti-wiretapping laws.\n\nIn response to a third video, in which O'Keefe stated that Clinton was behind an illegal public relations gimmick to punish Trump for not releasing his tax returns, the Clinton campaign denied any wrongdoing. Independent campaign finance experts posited the video doesn't support O'Keefe's claims. Clinton said she was aware of the activists dressed as Donald Duck, who were following Donald Trump while asking about his tax returns, and said she was amused.\n\nOn October 26, 2016, O'Keefe posted a fourth video on his Project Veritas Action YouTube channel. The video alleged that liberal groups supporting Hillary Clinton were illegally taking foreign money. The targeted group, Americans United for Change foundation, is a 501(c)4 organization and is allowed to legally accept foreign contributions. However, AUC returned the money shortly after the video was released. The group's chief stated, \"We returned the money because the last thing we want to be associated with is a character like O'Keefe who has been convicted and successfully sued for his illegal tactics and fraudulent activities.\"\n\nOn November 8, 2016 (Election Day), O'Keefe spent some time going around vans that were allegedly \"bussing people around to polls in Philadelphia\".\n\nOn January 9, 2017, Project Veritas operative Allison Maass was filmed attempting to bribe members of Americans Take Action into inciting a riot at Trump's inauguration. On January 16, 2017, Project Veritas uploaded a video showing DC Antifascist Coalition members of Disrupt J20 plotting to use \"stink bombs\" at the DeploraBall. After the video's release, Disrupt J20 denied the statements, saying that the members deliberately gave false information to Veritas. The video led to the arrest of one man allegedly involved in the plan, as well as two associates. All three individuals pleaded guilty.\n\nIn October 2016, Project Veritas released a video taken at a United Federation of Teachers holiday party on December 16, 2015. It was secretly recorded by an undercover journalist posing as a political consultant. In the video, the Democratic representative from Manhattan on the New York City Board of Elections, Commissioner Alan Schulkin, was seen saying that there was \"all kinds of fraud\" in the election system.\n\nSchulkin criticized Mayor Bill de Blasio's municipal ID program as a major contributing factor. \"He gave out ID cards, de Blasio. That's in lieu of a driver's license, but you can use it for anything. But they didn't vet people to see who they really are. Anybody can go in there and say, 'I am Joe Smith, I want an ID card.' It's absurd. There is a lot of fraud. Not just voter fraud, all kinds of fraud ... This is why I get more conservative as I get older\", Schulkin said in the tape.\n\nNot realizing he was being recorded, Schulkin said, \"The law says you can't ask for anything. Which they really should be able to do. I think there is a lot of voter fraud.\" He continued, \"Certain neighborhoods in particular, they bus people around to vote. They put them in a bus and go poll site to poll site.\" At another point in the conversation, Schulkin said, \"Oh, there's thousands of absentee ballots. ... I don't know where they came from.\"\n\nShortly after the release of the video, Mayor de Blasio called Schulkin's behavior \"entirely inappropriate\" and demanded his resignation.\n\nAt a subsequent BOE meeting in October, Schulkin said his remarks had been taken out of context and denied being a racist, but defended his support for a voter ID law. He was told by party leaders at the meeting that he would not be reappointed to another four-year term after his term expired on December 31.\n\nIn August 2010, O'Keefe planned a staged encounter with the CNN correspondent Abbie Boudreau, who was doing a documentary on the young conservative movement. He set up an appointment at his office in Maryland to discuss a video shoot. Izzy Santa, executive director of Project Veritas, warned Boudreau that O'Keefe was planning to \"punk\" her on the boat by trying to seduce her—which he would film on hidden cameras. Boudreau did not board the boat and soon left the area.\n\nCNN later published a 13-page plan written by O'Keefe mentor Ben Wetmore. It listed props for the boat scheme, including pornography, sexual aids, condoms, a blindfold and \"fuzzy\" handcuffs. When questioned by CNN, O'Keefe denied he was going to follow the Wetmore plan, as he found parts of it inappropriate. Boudreau commented \"that does not appear to be true, according to a series of emails we obtained from Izzy Santa, who says the e-mails reveal James' true intentions.\"\n\nFollowing the Boudreau incident, Project Veritas paid Izzy Santa a five-figure settlement after she threatened to sue, which included a nondisclosure agreement. Funding decreased from conservative political organizations following this CNN incident.\n\nStarting October 25, 2010, O'Keefe posted a series of videos on the Internet entitled \"Teachers Unions Gone Wild.\" At the time, the New Jersey Education Association (NJEA) was in negotiations with Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor, over teacher pay benefits and tenure. O'Keefe obtained one video from recordings made by \"citizen journalists\", whom he recruited to attend the NJEA's leadership conference. They secretly recorded meetings and conversations with teacher participants. It featured teachers discussing the difficulty of firing a tenured teacher.\n\nA second video featured a staged phone conversation by O'Keefe with Lawrence E. Everett, assistant superintendent of the Passaic, New Jersey city schools, in which Everett refused to commit to firing a teacher based upon the purported claim by a parent that the teacher had used the \"n-word\" with his child. The third video (October 26, 2010) featured audio of a voice, identified as NJEA Associate Director Wayne Dibofsky, who alleged voter fraud during the 1997 Jersey City mayoral election. The voice of Robert Byrne, Jersey City municipal clerk, was recorded on the same video; he noted that the election was monitored by lawyers for both candidates.\n\nNew Jersey's Republican Governor Chris Christie stated at the time that nothing on the videos surprised him. NJEA spokesman Steve Wollmer said the union and its attorneys were discussing their options regarding possible legal action, although no action was ever taken. Wollmer called the videos \"a calculated attack on this organization and its members\", and described O'Keefe as \"flat-out sleazy\".\n\nIn the summer of 2011, O'Keefe released videos of his colleagues' staged encounters purportedly showing Medicaid fraud in offices in six states, including Maine, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Virginia. Following his previous strategy, he sent the releases to conservative outlets over a period of weeks. In July 2011, two conservative groups released a secretly recorded video of an encounter in Maine's Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nIn the video, an actor attempted to apply for benefits while hinting that he was a drug smuggler. Americans for Prosperity and O'Keefe said he had similar recorded videos from offices in Ohio, Virginia and South Carolina, and believed that there was a systemic problem. In Maine, Governor LePage concluded upon further examination of the videos that there was no fraud or intent to commit fraud.\n\nA similar O'Keefe video posted on the Project Veritas web site purported to show workers at the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services assisting actors posing as drug dealers in applying for benefits. His fourth Medicaid video, apparently filmed in Richmond, Virginia, was released in July 2011. \"[As 'Sean Murphy'], dressed in the same regalia he wore on the New Jersey shoot, [O'Keefe] presented himself to a Medicaid worker in Charleston, S.C., as an Irish drug importer and Irish Republican Army member who wanted coverage for 25 wounded comrades who entered the U.S. illegally. The kindly worker spent time photocopying applications and dealing with this improbable applicant. She explained to him that only U.S. citizens are eligible for Medicaid and informed him she was not making any promises that the 25 purported IRA members would qualify. She said he had to abide by the law and told him that she didn't want to know details, because federal law protects patient privacy. \"Like I said, someone would have to come here and subpoena our information in order for us to divulge any information, because like I said there's something called the Health Insurance Accountability and Affordability Act—or portability—and anyway it went into effect several years ago, and that's what we follow. It is federal law, and they do threaten high fines—which they don't pay me as much per year as they threaten to fine me—so it is definitely not in my own best interest to divulge anything to anyone because I cannot afford it, I do not want to go to jail.\"\n\nThe videos received less media attention than earlier O'Keefe efforts. Generally, the state officials and representatives acknowledged potential problems but also took a measured tone in response, to allow time to fully investigate and evaluate the incidents. After viewing the video, Maine governor Paul LePage thanked the individual who took the video and noted: \"The video in its entirety does not show a person willfully helping someone de-fraud the welfare system. It does show a need for further job knowledge and continuous and improved staff training.\" He also stated that \"we would be six months further along in fixing the problem\" if he had received the video when it was filmed. LePage directed his agency director to work on correcting the problem.\n\nOhio media initially reported that \"a Franklin County Jobs and Family Service worker was placed on administrative leave and at least one other person was out of work\" as a result of the video's release. Ben Johnson of the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services noted that benefits were never granted in the case, and that the made-up story would have been caught if the application process had proceeded. He said his office would use the video to strengthen staff training. Mike DeWine, Attorney General of Ohio, described the Ohio video as \"outrageous\" and intended to instruct his state's Medicaid fraud unit to look into the incident. The director of the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services, Michael Colbert, notified county leaders of a mandatory retraining, \"to ensure they can identify people trying to defraud the government\". Upon investigation by state officials, the Medicaid worker who coached O'Keefe's operative seeking Medicaid for his father and claimed to own a yacht as well as a helipad, on how to hide their (also claimed) ownership of an $800,000 automobile had been placed on paid administrative leave. A spokesman for Virginia governor Bob McDonnell said that he had asked state police to review the video and take whatever actions are appropriate.\n\nIn Charleston, South Carolina, the director of that state's Department of Health and Human Services, Anthony Kreck, said the video filmed in his state \"raises concerns about how well trained and supported our staff are to handle outrageous situations.\" He also expressed concern for the safety of the state employee with the figure [\"Sean Murphy\"] in the video \"who could be interpreted as intimidating\" and questioned why security wasn't called.\n\nIn January 2012, O'Keefe released a video of associates obtaining a number of ballots for the New Hampshire Primary by using the names of recently deceased voters. He stated that the video showed \"the integrity of the elections process is severely comprised .\" His team culled names from published obituaries, which were checked against public voter roll information. O'Keefe said his team broke no laws, as they did not pretend to be the deceased persons when they asked for the ballots, and they did not cast votes after receiving ballots. One of his associates' attempts was caught by a voting supervisor at the polling station who recognized that the name he gave was of a deceased individual; the associate in question left before police arrived.\n\nSarah Parnass of ABC News reported that the video \"either exposes why voting laws are too lax or comes close to itself being voter fraud (or both) ...\" One media account referred to it as a stunt. New Hampshire Governor John Lynch said, \"I think it is outrageous that we have out-of-staters coming into New Hampshire, coming into our polling places and misrepresenting themselves to the election officials, and I hope that they should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law, if in fact they're found guilty of some criminal act.\" The New Hampshire Attorney General and the US Attorney's Office announced investigations into the video.\n\nNew Hampshire Associate Attorney General Richard Head said he would investigate the possible weaknesses in the voting system, but noted the state did not have a history of known fraud related to person[s] seeking ballot[s] in the name of a dead person or persons. Head announced he would investigate the possibility that the filmmakers committed crimes while producing the videos.\n\nHamline University law professor David Schultz said, \"If they [O'Keefe's group] were intentionally going in and trying to fraudulently obtain a ballot, they violated the law\", referring to Title 42, which prohibits procuring ballots fraudulently. The New Hampshire Attorney General's office later dropped its investigation of O'Keefe for potential voter fraud in 2013.\n\nOn October 24, 2012 a video was released showing Patrick Moran, son of then-U.S. Congressman Jim Moran (D-VA), and a field director with his father's campaign, discussing a plan to cast fraudulent ballots, which was proposed to him by someone who posed as a fervent supporter of the campaign. The person he was speaking with was a conservative activist with O'Keefe's Project Veritas, and was secretly recording the conversation. Patrick Moran resigned from the campaign, saying he did not want to be a distraction during the election, stating:\n\n[A]t no point have I, or will I ever endorse any sort of illegal or unethical behavior. At no point did I take this person seriously. He struck me as being unstable and joking, and for only that reason did I humor him. In hindsight, I should have immediately walked away, making it clear that there is no place in the electoral process for even the suggestion of illegal behavior, joking or not.\n\nThe Arlington County, Virginia Police Department was made aware of the video and opened a criminal investigation into \"every component\" of the matter.\n\nOn January 31, 2013, Arlington County announced that the investigation, by its police department in collaboration with the Offices of the Virginia Attorney General and the Arlington County Commonwealth's Attorney, had concluded and that no charges would be brought. The County stated: \"Patrick Moran and the Jim Moran for Congress campaign provided full cooperation throughout the investigation. Despite repeated attempts to involve the party responsible for producing the video, they failed to provide any assistance.\"\n\nIn August 2014, O'Keefe dressed up as Osama bin Laden (who had died 3 years previously) and crossed the US–Mexico border in Texas in both directions to \"show that our elected officials were lying to the American people\" about border security. The incident was cited by U.S. Senator John McCain in Congressional hearings.\n\nIn October 2014 O'Keefe and his two colleagues attempted to bait staffers for Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) and then-U.S. Senator Mark Udall, as well as independent expenditure organizations, into approving voter fraud, according to several staffers who interacted with O'Keefe and his colleagues. Staffers began photographing O'Keefe's crew and advising them that what they were advocating was illegal; one nonprofit said they contacted police.\n\nOn March 16, 2016, O'Keefe attempted to call Open Society Foundations under the assumed name of \"Victor Kesh\", describing himself as attached to \"a, uh, foundation\"[sic] seeking to \"get involved with you and aid what you do in fighting for, um, European values.\"[sic] O'Keefe forgot to hang up after recording the voicemail, and several more minutes of audio were recorded, revealing that he was attached to Discover the Networks and planning a series of attempts to create embarrassing videos or other recordings of targeted groups.\n\nOn June 26, 2017, O'Keefe released a video on Project Veritas' YouTube channel that showed John Bonifield, a producer of health and medical stories for CNN, saying that CNN's coverage of the Russian investigation was for \"ratings\" and that the coverage was \"mostly bullshit\". The video identified Bonifield as a supervising producer of CNN, but did not state that he was a supervising producer for CNN Health. In a statement, CNN stated: \"CNN stands by our medical producer John Bonifield. Diversity of personal opinion is what makes CNN strong, we welcome it and embrace it.\" During a White House press briefing, deputy White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders encouraged people to watch the video \"whether it's accurate or not\".\n\nOn June 28, 2017, O'Keefe released the second part of the series of undercover videos, by then dubbed \"American Pravda\". In the video, CNN anchor Van Jones said, \"The Russia thing is just a big nothingburger.\" When asked about the video in an email, CNN responded \"lol\". During that same day, the videos were posted on Donald Trump's Instagram account. Jones said that O'Keefe had deceptively edited the video to take his remarks out of context and was attempting to \"pull off a hoax.\" Jones added that he believed that there probably was collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.\n\nOn June 30, 2017, O'Keefe released the third part of the undercover videos. Part 3 of the series showed CNN associate producer Jimmy Carr saying that Trump is \"fucking crazy\" and that \"on the inside, we all recognize he is a clown, that he is hilariously unqualified for this, he's really bad at this, and that he does not have America's best interests\". Carr also said \"This is a man who's not actually a Republican, he just adopted that because that was the party he thought he could win in. He doesn't believe anything that these people believe.\" Additionally, he said American voters are \"stupid as shit.\" He also made comments about Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, calling her an \"awful woman\" and stating that she \"looks like she got hit with a shovel\". In a fourth video published by Project Veritas on July 5, Carr criticized CNN co-anchor Chris Cuomo.\n\nStarting in July 2017, Project Veritas operative Jaime Phillips attempted to infiltrate \"The Washington Post\" and other media outlets by joining networking groups related to journalism and left-leaning politics. She and a male companion attended events related to the \"Post\", and their conversations with journalists were sometimes covertly recorded.\n\nIn November 2017, \"The Washington Post\" reported that several women accused Republican Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore of pursuing them while they were teenagers and he was in his 30s. Later that same month, Jaime Phillips approached \"The Washington Post\" and falsely claimed that Moore had impregnated her as a teenager and that she had an abortion. In conducting its usual fact-checking, the \"Post\" discovered multiple red flags in her story. They found a GoFundMe page in her name that said, \"I've accepted a job to work in the conservative media movement to combat the lies and deceipt [sic] of the liberal MSM.\" After a \"Post\" reporter confronted her with the inconsistencies during a video-recorded interview, Phillips denied that she was working with an organization that targets journalists, and said that she no longer wanted to do the story. She was seen outside Project Veritas' office in Mamaroneck, New York, with her car remaining at the office's parking lot for more than an hour. O'Keefe declined to comment about the woman's apparent connection to Project Veritas. Instead of running a story about Phillips' supposed pregnancy, the \"Post\" published an article about the attempted sting operation. The \"Post\" decided to disclose Phillips' original discussions made off the record, saying they were not obligated to keep them confidential because she had deceived them.\n\nHours after the \"Post\" published this story, O'Keefe released a video which he claimed exposed the newspaper's liberal bias. The video includes undercover footage of conversations with two \"Post\" employees, national security reporter Dan Lamothe and product director Joey Marburger. These employees explained to undercover Project Veritas operatives the difference between the news reporting of the \"Washington Post\" (which calls out the Trump administration's missteps while giving \"him credit where there's credit\" due) and the \"Post\"'s opinion editorials; O'Keefe said that this exposed the \"Washington Post\"'s \"hidden agenda.\"\n\nO'Keefe was criticized for his failed sting, and \"The Washington Post\" was praised. Rod Dreher of \"The American Conservative\" praised the \"Post\" and called on conservative donors to stop giving money to O'Keefe's outfit. Dan McLaughlin of the conservative \"National Review\" said that O'Keefe's sting was an \"own goal\" and that O'Keefe was doing a disservice to the conservative movement; Jim Geraghty of the \"National Review\" made a similar assessment. Byron York of \"The Washington Examiner\" said that O'Keefe's \"idiocy\" was \"beyond boneheaded,\" and that \"O'Keefe really ought to hang it up.\" Ben Shapiro, the conservative editor in chief of \"The Daily Wire\", said that the botched sting was \"horrible, both morally and effectively.\" Conor Friedersdorf of \"The Atlantic\" wrote, \"If James O'Keefe respected the right-wing populists who make up the audience of Project Veritas ... he would tell them the truth about all of the organizations that he targets. Instead, Project Veritas operates in bad faith, an attribute it demonstrated again this week in the aftermath of its bungled attempt to trick \"The Washington Post\".\" Noah Rothman of the conservative magazine \"Commentary\" chastised O'Keefe for being exploitative of his audience: \"No longer are institutions like Veritas dedicated to combating ignorance in their audience. They're actively courting it.\"\n\nJonathan Chait of \"New York\" magazine said that O'Keefe, having set out prove that the \"Post\" was fake news, ended up disproving it. O'Keefe's plot collapsed because it was premised on a ludicrously false worldview, wrote Chait. \"The Washington Post does not, in fact, publish unverified accusations just because they're against Republicans.\" O'Keefe's attempts to prove rampant voter fraud have failed \"because voter fraud is not rampant.\"\n\nOn May 2, 2018, Project Veritas posted on YouTube a video allegedly showing a New Jersey teachers union administrator discussing a teacher alleged to have struck a student. The teacher was suspended following the release of the video, pending an investigation. The following day, O'Keefe released a second video allegedly showing another New Jersey teachers union administrator speaking to students about a different alleged incident of a teacher pushing and injuring a student. In the video, the administrator allegedly boasted of her effort to retain a pension for a teacher who allegedly had sex with a student. She was also suspended pending an investigation. On May 5, the New Jersey State Senate announced their intention to convene a joint committee to investigate the incidents.\n\nProject Veritas uses methods not employed by reputable journalists, including misrepresenting its operatives' identities. O'Keefe refers to himself as a \"guerrilla journalist\". Such methods have stirred debate about what it means to be a journalist and what constitutes good journalistic practice, especially with respect to undercover work.\n\nTim Kenneally and Daniel Frankel reported for thewrap.com on March 9, 2011 that some of O'Keefe's supporters referred to him as the right wing's answer to a long line of left-leaning \"hybrid troublemakers who get put on the cover of \"Rolling Stone\", like Paul Krassner and Abbie Hoffman\". In that same March 2011 report, Marty Kaplan, director of the Norman Lear Center at the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism, was quoted as saying:\n\nWhat [O'Keefe] does isn't journalism. It's agitpop [sic], politi-punking, entrapment-entertainment. There is no responsible definition of journalism that includes what he does or how he does it. His success at luring his prey into harming themselves is a measure of how fallible and foolish anyone, including good people, can sometimes be.\n\nIn reporting on allegations that O'Keefe had attempted in 2010 to tamper with Senator Landrieu's office phone system, Jim Rutenberg and Campbell Robertson of the \"New York Times\" posited that O'Keefe practiced a kind of \"gonzo journalism\" and his tactic is to \"caricature the political and social values of his enemies by carrying them to outlandish extremes.\"\nJonathan Seidl of TheBlaze said of the first NPR video, \"the video, in the end, not only raises questions about NPR, but it also raises questions about undercover, gotcha journalism that can sometimes border on entrapment.\" Scott Baker of TheBlaze wrote in March 2011 about the NPR videos, saying that O'Keefe was \"unethical\" because he calls himself an \"investigative journalist\" but \"uses editing tactics that seem designed to intentionally lie or mislead about the material being presented.\"\n\nIn a March 2011 interview with O'Keefe, NPR journalist Bob Garfield asked, referring to the ACORN videos, \"If your journalistic technique is the lie, why should we believe anything you have to say?\" O'Keefe responded that his techniques should be characterized as a form of guerrilla theater rather than \"lying\" – \"you're posing as something you're not, in order to capture candid conversations from your subject. But I wouldn't characterize it as, as lying.\"\n\nIn July 2011, Dean Mills, the dean of the Missouri School of Journalism, compared O'Keefe to Michael Moore and said, \"Some ethicists say it is never right for a journalist to deceive for any reason, but there are wrongs in the world that will never be exposed without some kind of subterfuge.\" \"The Atlantic\" journalist Conor Friedersdorf responded that O'Keefe's \"mortal sin\" wasn't that he misled his subjects, but that he misled his audience by presenting his videos to the public in \"less than honest ways that go far beyond normal 'selectivity.'\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6580980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6580980", "title": "John Howard Society", "text": "John Howard Society\n\nThe John Howard Society is a Canadian non-profit organization that seeks to develop understanding and effective responses to the problem of crime and prison reform. It is named after John Howard, a philanthropist and early English prison reformer. This society works with adults, children, and youths to help rebuild their lives.\n\nThe John Howard Society was created in 1867 by a church group focused on providing spiritual care to prisoners in a Toronto prison. Later in 1874, this group became recognized as the Prisoners Aid Association of Toronto. Also around this time, they discovered more was needed by this group of prisoners than the spiritual care they had been providing. Unfortunately, World War I had immense effects on the church group and interest in their work decreased.\n\nBy 1929, Toronto's chief of police at the time, Chief Draper noted a need to reactivate the work done by the church group thus creating the Citizens Service Association. This association was volunteer operated and assisted prisoners re-entering society in finding housing, clothing and employment.\n\nThe idea spread and in 1931 British Columbia saw a similar institution created by Reverend J. Dinnage Hobden under the name we now know it as, the John Howard Society named after John Howard who was a prison reformer living from 1726 until 1790.\n\nIn 1946, the Citizens Service Association followed suit and became the John Howard Society of Ontario. Between 1947 and 1960 most other provinces created their own version of the Association. The John Howard Society of Canada was formed in February 1962 when all provinces (excluding Quebec) approved a constitution. In 1980, Quebec joined and in 1994 the Northwest Territories. \n\nToday, John Howard society offices and branches can be found in sixty communities across Canada, in all of the provinces and the Northwest Territories. The John Howard Society has sixty-five offices across Canada which specialize in the reintegration of individuals exiting the prison system back into society. They also work to keep individuals from making decisions that will increase their likelihood of contact with the law. In addition to this, their head office is located in Kingston, Ontario, which is within driving distance of 10 penitentiaries.\n\nThe people who comprise the John Howard Society of today have much the same focus as the original groups with a few additions. For example, advocating for change in the criminal justice process and public education around the issues of prison conditions, criminal law and their application are all newer considerations as society and the criminal justice system change.\n\nIn addition to working with people in penitentiaries, Societies today also work with adults and youth in correctional facilities that are either federally and provincially operated. These services offer programming for offenders in custody and in the community and also assist those who have been labeled as \"at risk\" to continue to live or reintegrate into living \"within the law\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45159522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45159522", "title": "John Rijsman", "text": "John Rijsman\n\nJohn B. Rijsman (born 1944) is a Belgian social psychologist and Professor of Social Psychology at the Tilburg University, known for his work on health and education, particularly on the \"dynamics of social competition in personal and categorical comparison-situations.\"\n\nRijsman received his degrees and his PhD from the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. After his graduation he obtained an appointed at the University of Illinois for a short period. In 1972 he returned to The Netherlands, where he was appointed Professor at the Tilburg University. For some years he has been Dean of the educational program on psychology of the University. He has supervised the dissertations of more than 100 PhD students, and among them was Hans Strikwerda. Rijsman was editor-in-chief of the \"European Journal of Social Psychology,\" and Associate Editor of the \"European Journal of Psychology.\" In the 1990s he crossed path with Kenneth Gergen, and joined the Taos Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "50037005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50037005", "title": "List of people named in the Panama Papers", "text": "List of people named in the Panama Papers\n\nThis is a partial list of people named in the Panama Papers as shareholders, directors and beneficiaries of offshore companies. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) released the full list of companies and individuals in the Panama Papers on 10 May 2016. ICIJ published the following disclaimer with regard to the data provided: \"There are legitimate uses for offshore companies, foundations and trusts. We do not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities included in the ICIJ Power Players interactive application have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly.\"\n\nCurrent or former heads of state or government of their country as defined by their political position at the time of announcement, \"not\" whether the documents in the Papers relating to them coincided with their period of office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther countries\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49296992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49296992", "title": "Medicines reconciliation", "text": "Medicines reconciliation\n\nMedicines reconciliation is the process of ensuring that a hospital patient's medication list is as up-to-date as possible. It is usually undertaken by a pharmacist, and may include consulting several sources such as the patient, their relatives or carers, or their primary care physician. In the United Kingdom, guidelines on medicines reconciliation are provided by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in collaboration with the National Patient Safety Agency. In accordance with these, it should be carried out within 24 hours of admission to hospital.\n\nResearch has shown that, on average, there is around a 20% discrepancy between medications prescribed on admission to hospital and the true medication list for a given patient. Chronic medications are stopped in about 11% of the patients after elective surgeries and 33% of the patients after admission to intensive care unit. The most common omissions are inhalers and analgesia. There are also a small minority of errors in prescribing drugs such as insulin or warfarin, which could have catastrophic consequences including death of the patient. Pharmacist involvement help reasons for drug discontinuation being documented and adverse drug reactions being reconciled in the prescription charts. The value of medicines reconciliation is in noticing and correcting these errors before they have a chance to adversely affect the patient concerned.\n"}
{"id": "137146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137146", "title": "Memory hierarchy", "text": "Memory hierarchy\n\nIn computer architecture, the memory hierarchy separates computer storage into a hierarchy based on response time. Since response time, complexity, and capacity are related, the levels may also be distinguished by their performance and controlling technologies. Memory hierarchy affects performance in computer architectural design, algorithm predictions, and lower level programming constructs involving locality of reference. \n\nDesigning for high performance requires considering the restrictions of the memory hierarchy, i.e. the size and capabilities of each component. Each of the various components can be viewed as part of a hierarchy of memories (m,m...,m) in which each member m is typically smaller and faster than the next highest member m of the hierarchy. To limit waiting by higher levels, a lower level will respond by filling a buffer and then signaling to activate the transfer.\n\nThere are four major storage levels.\nThis is a general memory hierarchy structuring. Many other structures are useful. For example, a paging algorithm may be considered as a level for virtual memory when designing a computer architecture, and one can include a level of nearline storage between online and offline storage.\n\n\nThe number of levels in the memory hierarchy and the performance at each level has increased over time. The type of memory or storage components also change historically . For example, the memory hierarchy of an Intel Haswell Mobile processor circa 2013 is:\n\nThe lower levels of the hierarchy – from disks downwards – are also known as tiered storage. The formal distinction between online, nearline, and offline storage is:\n\nFor example, always-on spinning disks are online, while spinning disks that spin-down, such as massive array of idle disk (MAID), are nearline. Removable media such as tape cartridges that can be automatically loaded, as in a tape library, are nearline, while cartridges that must be manually loaded are offline.\n\nMost modern CPUs are so fast that for most program workloads, the bottleneck is the locality of reference of memory accesses and the efficiency of the caching and memory transfer between different levels of the hierarchy. As a result, the CPU spends much of its time idling, waiting for memory I/O to complete. This is sometimes called the \"space cost\", as a larger memory object is more likely to overflow a small/fast level and require use of a larger/slower level. The resulting load on memory use is known as \"pressure\" (respectively \"register pressure\", \"cache pressure\", and (main) \"memory pressure\"). Terms for data being missing from a higher level and needing to be fetched from a lower level are, respectively: register spilling (due to register pressure: register to cache), cache miss (cache to main memory), and (hard) page fault (main memory to disk).\n\nModern programming languages mainly assume two levels of memory, main memory and disk storage, though in assembly language and inline assemblers in languages such as C, registers can be directly accessed. Taking optimal advantage of the memory hierarchy requires the cooperation of programmers, hardware, and compilers (as well as underlying support from the operating system):\n\nMany programmers assume one level of memory. This works fine until the application hits a performance wall. Then the memory hierarchy will be assessed during code refactoring.\n\n"}
{"id": "42860790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42860790", "title": "Military Inc.", "text": "Military Inc.\n\nMilitary Inc.: Inside Pakistan's Military Economy is a book about Pakistan Military's Economic activities and its consequences, written by Ayesha Siddiqa.\n\nThe book divided into 10 chapters discusses Pakistan military's economic empire and its political, economical, and social effect on the country. The author uses the term “Milbus” to refer to “\"military capital that is used for the personal benefit of the military fraternity, especially the officer cadre, but is neither recorded nor part of the defense budget\".” She puts the cost of this Milbus to about $20 billion. \nFollowing is a brief description of the content chapter wise:\n\nThe book causes a stir as it discussed a subject considered taboo in a country ruled for half of its time since independence, by Military. The author on the launch of the book said, \"Over the past three years a lot of my friends have advised me not to publish this book. They think I have suicidal tendencies.\" \nTalat Hussain, a retired general and political analyst, said \"Ms Siddiqa is a courageous researcher. This area has always been considered a sacred cow in our society.\" \nInter Services Public Relations (ISPR) released a booklet titled ‘Information Brief’, countering the figures and facts presented by the author in her book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40875355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40875355", "title": "Motivational Leadership", "text": "Motivational Leadership\n\nMotivational leadership refers to someone leading others by motivating them to strive for certain goals rather than simply act on orders. The leader tries to create a safe and trusting environment, and ensure the organization is positioned for success in its domain—for example, a company in the marketplace. Some interpret motivational leadership principles as requiring that a leader establish strong ethics, clear vision, definable values, authentic communication, and be genuinely motivated to promote collaboration and a positive working environment.\n\n\"Honesty\": A leader must be honest to maintain trust from team members.\n\n\"Ability to delegate\": Leaders must identify strengths of team members so they can maximize group potential.\n\n\"Communication\": A leader must effectively communicate goals to team members.\nSense of humor: Leaders must help maintain organizational morale because negative attitudes spread.\n\n\"Confidence\": A leader must show confidence in all situations, because others feed from this confidence and perform more productively.\n\"Commitment\": A leader must show commitment by doing work the others are doing to demonstrate commitment to the team and the mission, and willingness to do “dirty work” if necessary.\n\n\"Positive attitude\": Leaders must demonstrate a positive attitude to the group happy and maximize productivity.\n\n\"Creativity\": A leader must be creative to see situations in multiple ways and solve problems more effectively.\n\n\"Optimism\": A leader constantly must be optimistic and have a positive vision because team members feed from that optimism.\n\n\"Vision\": Leaders must have a vision, because followers may not.\nIntegrity: To have integrity means that one is truthful with strong morals.\nAbility to inspire: A leader must not only have the ability to inspire themselves, but inspire others in the group to get necessary production when the leader needs it. A leader must have the ability to inspire in every situation.http://www.inc.com/peter-economy/7-traits-highly-effective-leaders.html\n\n\"Courage\": Leaders must be willing to take risks and push out of comfort zones to reach goals.\n\"Realism\": Seeing the world as it really is, not as it \"should\" be. One should be realistic when assessing a situation, so as to not sound irrational.\n\"Responsibility\": Leaders must take responsibility for their actions, especially if he/she made a mistake.\n\nMotivation leadership begins with motivating yourself. Leaders should have motivation and confidence that they can successfully lead a group and also that they are able to approach the group they are leading with good manners\n\nA leader must set goals to keep the group working towards something—but the goals must be achievable, because unrealistic goals hurt morale.\n\nA leader should learn from failures to gain wisdom. Young leaders can only learn so much from past leaders and textbooks, but sometimes must make their own mistakes so they can learn from them.\n\nA leader should accept responsibility. for not only their actions, but the actions of their group.\n\nWhen approaching a project, a leader should provide direction to the group to get a task completed in the most efficient manner.\n\nA leader should be trustworthy because the people they lead must trust them to do everything in their power to promote success.\n\nA leader should be authentic rather than pompous. People generally favor leaders who see themselves as a common worker.\n\nTo get the most out of a group, a leader should embrace self-expression to harness every group member's inner creativity.\n\nKey to leadership is collaboration with the group to all opinions so everyone has input.\n\nVince Lombardi: Vince Lombardi was a coach in the National Football League for the New York Giants and the Green Bay Packers. After his five year tenure with the Giants, he signed a five year deal to coach the Packers. Lombardi transformed the Packers from a team that had a record of 1-10-1 in 1958, the previous year, to 7-5 in 1959, Lombardi’s first year. Lombardi went on to lead the Packers to three straight and five total league championships. Lombardi’s success was based on how he coached. Lombardi demanded excellence and told players that once they understood themselves, they could add to that and build character, integrity, and dedication. Lombardi had a violent temper, but that only was illustrated due to the passion he had for the game. Lombardi promised that if his players obeyed his rules, they would be winners. Lombardi certainly held up his end of the bargain, winning two Super Bowls with the Packers.\n\nCoach Herb Brooks: Coach Brooks is an iconic figure for his motivational speech before the 1980 championship game in which USA played a championship hockey game against the Soviets. The Soviets were heavy favorites to win and Brooks, in his speech, said that the Soviets would probably win 9 times out of 10. Brooks motivated his team to go out and play as if it was their night, as if they deserved this game. If not for the brilliant and motivating speech by Brooks, who knows if team USA would have defeated the Soviets in 1980.\n\nRay Lewis: Ray Lewis had a 17 year career in the National Football League with the Baltimore Ravens. Lewis is known for his devotion to Christianity and his outstanding leadership. He is not only a leader on the field with his teammates, but a leader off the field with charity work for disadvantaged youth.\n\nMotivational Leadership is important because it helps to get the most from society. Every team of people or worker needs leadership. Leaders help organize projects to get them completed in the most efficient manner. Leaders have incentives to motivate employees because they help cut costs by working quicker in a positive environment. Additionally, employees increase quality when happy with leadership, and in turn, society is happy because they receive quality products.\n\nAny family figure can be a motivational leader in a family—a brother, sister, cousin, grandparent, or parent. The motivational leader in a family must constantly set good examples and drive other members of the family to be the best that they can. A child that is constantly motivated usually develops their own motivation, and therefore develops a work ethic. Parents must motivate their children, and in some instances older siblings.\n\n“It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.”-Mark Twain\nYou miss 100% of the shots you don’t take. –Wayne Gretzky\nWinning isn’t everything, but wanting to win is. –Vince Lombardi \n“You can never cross the ocean until you have the courage to lose sight of the shore”. –Christopher Columbus\n“The difference between a successful person and others is not lack of strength not a lack of knowledge but rather a lack of will”. –Vince \nLombardi “In a field of opportunities, don’t pick one for yourself, plant one for others.” –William Tootle jr.\nMore Inspirational Quotes\n\"To handle yourself, use your head; to handle others, use your heart.\" Eleanor Roosevelt 75 Inspiring Motivational Quotes on Leadership\n\nMotivational Quotes\n\nTransformational Leadership\n\nMotivational Speaking\n\nLeadership\n\nStrategic Leadership\n\nSteps to Become a Motivational Leader\n\nMotivation\n\nTransformational Leadership\n\nMore Inspirational Quotes\n\nTraits of Effective Leaders\n\nQualities That Make a Great Leader\n\nSteps to Be a Leader\n\nLeadership Quotes\n\nRay Lewis\n\nVince Lombardi Bio\n\nVince Lombardi Wikipedia\n\nMore on Vince Lombardi\n\nChristopher Columbus Wikipedia\n\nMark Twain Wikipedia\n\nWayne Gretsky Wikipedia\n\nLeadership Advice\n\nImportance of Motivation in the Workforce\n\nHerb Brooks Wikipedia\n\nA Guide to Being a Motivational Leader\n\nShort Inspirational Quotes\n\nMotivational Videos &Quotes About Life\n"}
{"id": "69443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69443", "title": "Mutiny", "text": "Mutiny\n\nMutiny is a criminal conspiracy among a group of people (typically members of the military or the crew of any ship, even if they are civilians) to openly oppose, change, or overthrow a lawful authority to which they are subject. The term is commonly used for a rebellion among members of the military against their superior officers, but it can also occasionally refer to any type of rebellion against authority figures or governances.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, mutiny particularly meant open rebellion against a ship's captain. This occurred, for example, during Ferdinand Magellan's journeys around the world resulting in the killing of one mutineer, the execution of another, and the marooning of others; on Henry Hudson's \"Discovery\" resulting in Hudson and others being set adrift in a boat; and the notorious mutiny on the \"Bounty\".\n\nUntil 1689, mutiny was regulated in England by \"Articles of War\" instituted by the monarch and effective only in a period of war. In 1689, the first \"Mutiny Act\" was passed which passed the responsibility to enforce discipline within the military to Parliament. The \"Mutiny Act\", altered in 1803, and the \"Articles of War\" defined the nature and punishment of mutiny until the latter were replaced by the \"Army Discipline and Regulation Act\" in 1879. This, in turn, was replaced by the \"Army Act\" in 1881.\n\nToday the Army Act 1955 defines mutiny as follows:\n\nThe same definition applies in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force.\n\nThe military law of England in early times existed, like the forces to which it applied, in a period of war only. Troops were raised for a particular service and were disbanded upon the cessation of hostilities. The crown, by prerogative, made laws known as \"Articles of War\" for the government and discipline of the troops while thus embodied and serving. Except for the punishment of desertion, which was made a felony by statute in the reign of Henry VI, these ordinances or Articles of War remained almost the sole authority for the enforcement of discipline until 1689 when the first \"Mutiny Act\" was passed and the military forces of the crown were brought under the direct control of parliament. Even the Parliamentary forces in the time of Charles I and Oliver Cromwell were governed, not by an act of the legislature, but by articles of war similar to those issued by the king and authorized by an ordinance of the Lords and Commons exercising in that respect the sovereign prerogative. This power of law-making by prerogative was however held to be applicable during a state of actual war only, and attempts to exercise it in time of peace were ineffectual. Subject to this limitation, it existed for considerably more than a century after the passing of the first Mutiny Act.\n\nFrom 1689 to 1803, although in peace time the Mutiny Act was occasionally suffered to expire, a statutory power was given to the crown to make Articles of War to operate in the colonies and elsewhere beyond the seas in the same manner as those made by prerogative operated in time of war.\n\nIn 1715, in consequence of the rebellion, this power was created in respect of the forces in the kingdom but apart from and in no respect affected the principle acknowledged all this time that the crown of its mere prerogative could make laws for the government of the army in foreign countries in time of war.\n\nThe Mutiny Act of 1803 effected a great constitutional change in this respect: the power of the crown to make any Articles of War became altogether statutory, and the prerogative merged in the act of parliament. The Mutiny Act 1873 was passed in this manner.\n\nSuch matters remained until 1879 when the last Mutiny Act was passed and the last Articles of War were promulgated. The Mutiny Act legislated for offences in respect of which death or penal servitude could be awarded, and the Articles of War, while repeating those provisions of the act, constituted the direct authority for dealing with offences for which imprisonment was the maximum punishment as well as with many matters relating to trial and procedure.\n\nThe act and the articles were found not to harmonize in all respects. Their general arrangement was faulty, and their language sometimes obscure. In 1869, a royal commission recommended that both should be recast in a simple and intelligible shape. In 1878, a committee of the House of Commons endorsed this view and made recommendations as to how the task should be performed. In 1879, passed into law a measure consolidating in one act both the Mutiny Act and the Articles of War, and amending their provisions in certain important respects. This measure was called the Army Discipline and Regulation Act 1879.\n\nAfter one or two years experience finding room for improvement, it was superseded by the Army Act 1881, which hence formed the foundation and the main portion of the military law of England, containing a proviso saving the right of the crown to make Articles of War, but in such a manner as to render the power in effect a nullity by enacting that no crime made punishable by the act shall be otherwise punishable by such articles. As the punishment of every conceivable offence was provided, any articles made under the act could be no more than an empty formality having no practical effect.\n\nThus the history of English military law up to 1879 may be divided into three periods, each having a distinct constitutional aspect: (I) prior to 1689, the army, being regarded as so many personal retainers of the sovereign rather than servants of the state, was mainly governed by the will of the sovereign; (2) between 1689 and 1803, the army, being recognised as a permanent force, was governed within the realm by statute and without it by the prerogative of the crown and (3) from 1803 to 1879, it was governed either directly by statute or by the sovereign under an authority derived from and defined and limited by statute. Although in 1879 the power of making Articles of War became in effect inoperative, the sovereign was empowered to make rules of procedure, having the force of law, to regulate the administration of the act in many matters formerly dealt with by the Articles of War. These rules, however, must not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Army Act itself, and must be laid before parliament immediately after they are made. Thus in 1879 the government and discipline of the army became for the first time completely subject either to the direct action or the close supervision of parliament.\n\nA further notable change took place at the same time. The Mutiny Act had been brought into force on each occasion for one year only, in compliance with the constitutional theory:\n\nthat the maintenance of a standing army in time of peace, unless with the consent of parliament, is against law. Each session therefore the text of the act had to be passed through both Houses clause by clause and line by line. The Army Act, on the other hand, is a fixed permanent code. But constitutional traditions are fully respected by the insertion in it of a section providing that it shall come into force only by virtue of an annual act of parliament. This annual act recites the illegality of a standing army in time of peace unless with the consent of parliament, and the necessity nevertheless of maintaining a certain number of land forces (exclusive of those serving in India) and a body of royal marine forces on shore, and of keeping them in exact discipline, and it brings into force the Army Act for one year.\nUntil 1998 mutiny and another offence of failing to suppress or report a mutiny were each punishable with death. Section 21(5) of the Human Rights Act 1998 completely abolished the death penalty in the United Kingdom. (Prior to this, the death penalty had already been abolished for murder, but it had remained in force for certain military offences and treason, although no executions had been carried out for several decades.) This provision was not required by the European Convention on Human Rights, since Protocol 6 of the Convention permitted the death penalty in time of war, and Protocol 13, which prohibits the death penalty for all circumstances, did not then exist. The UK government introduced section 21(5) as a late amendment in response to parliamentary pressure.\n\nThe United States' Uniform Code of Military Justice defines mutiny thus:\n\nU.S. military law requires obedience only to lawful orders. Disobedience to unlawful orders (see Superior orders) is the obligation of every member of the U.S. military, a principle established by the Nuremberg and Tokyo Trials following World War II and reaffirmed in the aftermath of the My Lai Massacre during the Vietnam War. However, a U.S. soldier who disobeys an order after deeming it unlawful will almost certainly be court-martialed to determine whether the disobedience was proper. In addition, simple refusal to obey is not mutiny, which requires collaboration or conspiracy to disobedience.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8641629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641629", "title": "National Defense College of the Philippines", "text": "National Defense College of the Philippines\n\nThe National Defense College of the Philippines (NDCP) (Filipino: \"Dalubhasaan ng Tanggulang Pambansa ng Pilipinas\") is an educational, training, and research agency of the Philippine government located inside Camp General Emilio Aguinaldo in Quezon City, Metro Manila. It is responsible for providing continued and intensive studies of the diverse problems relating to national defense and security. It is under the Department of National Defense.\n\nThe National Defense College of the Philippines was first conceived in 1957 when the military advisors of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) proposed the setting-up of a SEATO War College in the Philippines.\n\nThere were legislative moves to pass a law creating the National Defense College of the Philippines. In the House of Representatives, Congressman Manuel A. Zosa filed the House Bill No. 1420 in 1970 proposing an “Act Creating the National Defense College of the Philippines and for other Purposes.” Also in the same year, then Congressman Ramon Bagatsing filed the House Bill No. 1447 proposing an “Act Creating the National Defense College of the Philippines, Providing an Academic Board, and for Other Purposes.” In the Senate, Senator Leonardo B. Perez filed the Senate Bill No. 597 proposing an “Act Creating the National Defense College of the Philippines and for other Purposes.” However, these legislative proposals did not reach third reading because President Ferdinand Marcos dissolved the Philippine Congress.\n\nPresident Marcos subsequently issued Presidential Decree No. 190 in 1973 to formally create the NDCP to \"fulfill the need for an institution that will provide for continuing and intensive studies of the diversified problems related to national defense and security.\" NDCP was then placed under the Office of the Secretary of National Defense in 1974 by virtue of P.D. No. 452.\n\nThe Academic and Admission Boards were later established to oversee the academic program of the College. To carry out its teaching function, the NDCP draws top experts from the academe and senior officers with command and staff experiences from the major services of the Armed Forces of the Philippines.\n\nLectures by foreign diplomats, technical experts and defense leaders also complement the instruction at the NDCP. The NDCP has managed to grow beyond its modest beginnings to train leaders in the military and civilian bureaucracy in strategic thinking.\n\nOn February 22, 1998, the College moved to its new and modern three-story building in the Academic Row, Camp Emilio Aguinaldo in Quezon City.\n\nThe Master in National Security Administration (MNSA) Program is the main academic program of the NDCP. It is a one-year, full-time master's degree course consisting of 39 units earned through various forms of classroom work, case studies, regional security and development studies and academic enhancement travels.\n\nThe MNSA curriculum focuses on the various dimensions of national security management:\n\nThe MNSA is open to military officers, government officials and private sector leaders. Students write a national security-oriented thesis. Civilian graduates are commissioned Lieutenant Colonels or Commanders in the AFP Reserve Force.\n\nThe Institute for National Security Studies (INSS) administers the research program of the NDCP. It embodies the College's effort to be the center of excellence in strategic thinking on national security matters in the Philippines and in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe Crisis Management Institute (CMI), formerly the \"Emergency Management Institute of the Philippines (EMIP)\", is envisioned to be the country's center for education, training, and research on crisis management, terrorism, and other transnational crimes, and as the premier training resource for technical cooperation in emergency management in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe Defense Management Institute (DMI), formerly the \"Institute for Extramural and Continuing Studies (IECS)\", is envisioned to be the key training institution on certificate and diploma courses on National Security Administration and to be a recognized training institution in the Asia-Pacific.\n\nMany government and business executives have graduated from the MNSA program; they comprise the general membership of the NDCP Alumni Association. The NDCP has produced the following notable alumni:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3571391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3571391", "title": "National Infrastructure Protection Plan", "text": "National Infrastructure Protection Plan\n\nThe National Infrastructure Protection Plan (NIPP) is a document called for by Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7, which aims to unify Critical Infrastructure and Key Resource (CIKR) protection efforts across the country. The latest version of the plan was produced in 2013 The NIPP's goals are to protect critical infrastructure and key resources and ensure resiliency. It is generally considered unwieldy and not an actual plan to be carried out in an emergency, but it is useful as a mechanism for developing coordination between government and the private sector. The NIPP is based on the model laid out in the 1998 Presidential Decision Directive-63, which identified critical sectors of the economy and tasked relevant government agencies to work with them on sharing information and on strengthening responses to attack.\n\nThe NIPP is structured to create partnerships between Government Coordinating Councils (GCC) from the public sector and Sector Coordinating Councils(SCC) from the private sector for the eighteen sectors DHS has identified as critical.\n\n2. DHS NIP 2013 Supplement - Executing CI Risk Management Approach\n"}
{"id": "44153462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44153462", "title": "Nationalist Galicianist Party", "text": "Nationalist Galicianist Party\n\nThe Nationalist Galicianist Party (PGN or PG(N), \"Partido Galeguista Nacionalista\" or \"Partido Galeguista (Nacionalista)\" in Galician language) was a Galician nationalist party founded in 1984.\n\nThe PGN was founded in 1984, after the decision of the Partido Galeguista (PG) to join the Galician Coalition. A group of fifty militants led by Ramón Martínez López and Manuel Beiras García dissatisfied with the decision decided to organize a new Galician nationalist political party. The party didn't present lists to the Galician elections of 1985 or to the general elections of 1986. In the 1986 European Parliament elections the party ran in a coalition with the Basque Nationalist Party, called the Europeanist Union. The coalition gained 5,322 votes in Galiza (0.43% of the Galician vote).\n\nIn 1988 the PGN merged with the PNG form the Galician Nationalist Party-Galicianist Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "8545978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8545978", "title": "Organisation Scientifique et Technique du Vol à Voile", "text": "Organisation Scientifique et Technique du Vol à Voile\n\nOrganisation Scientifique et Technique du Vol à Voile (OSTIV) is a body associated with the FAI Gliding Commission (IGC). The FAI IGC oversees the sport of gliding worldwide and is a department of the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI).\n\nIn 1930 the first international soaring organization, ISTUS, (Internationale Studienkommission für den motorlosen Flug) was formed with the objective of the furtherance of development of soaring in science and technical aspects by \"exchanging experience and friendly cooperation among the specialists and pilots of all nations engaged in soaring\". This objective was continued after World War II by the formation of OSTIV.\n\nOSTIV's aim is also the furtherance of the technical development of soaring by the sharing of experience by glider manufacturers and glider pilots. It was formed as the successor of ISTUS on 27 July 1948 at Samedan, Switzerland. Its sections include the Meterorological Panel, the Sailplane Development Panel and the Training & Safety Panel. It publishes the scientific journal \"Technical Soaring\".\n\nOSTIV has the right to send observers to the meetings of the FAI Gliding Commission and vice versa. OSTIV's Congresses generally take place at the same time and place as the World Gliding Championships. The next meeting will take place in Benalla, Australia from 8 to 13 January 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12642090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642090", "title": "Oscar Olivera", "text": "Oscar Olivera\n\nOscar Olivera Foronda (born 1955) was one of the main leaders of the protesters against the water privatization in Bolivia. The result of these protests was an event known as the Cochabamba Water War. Now he is one of the main leaders of the protests in the Bolivian gas conflict. He is also the head of a confederation of factory workers' unions.\n\nOscar Olivera was awarded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2001.\n\nOscar Olivera's role in the Cochabamba Water War is featured in the 2008 documentary film \"\".\n"}
{"id": "83013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83013", "title": "Pauline Hanson's One Nation", "text": "Pauline Hanson's One Nation\n\nPauline Hanson's One Nation (PHON or ONP, also One Nation or One Nation Party) is a nationalist, right-wing populist party in Australia. One Nation was founded in 1997, by member of parliament Pauline Hanson and her advisors David Ettridge and David Oldfield after Hanson was disendorsed as a federal candidate for the Liberal Party of Australia. The disendorsement came before the 1996 federal election because of comments she made about Indigenous Australians. Hanson sat as an independent for one year before forming Pauline Hanson's One Nation.\n\nFederally, no One Nation candidate has ever been elected to the House of Representatives (Hanson was already a member of the House when One Nation was formed). However, one candidate from the party was elected to the Senate in the 1998 federal election, and four One Nation senators were elected in the 2016 federal election. In state politics, however, One Nation has performed better. At the 1998 Queensland state election the party gained more than 22% of the vote in Queensland's unicameral legislative assembly, winning 11 of the 89 seats. David Oldfield was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Council as a One Nation candidate, but he was expelled from the party and later formed the unsuccessful splinter group, One Nation NSW. Three members were elected to the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n\nOne Nation changed its name back to \"Pauline Hanson's One Nation\" in June 2015.\n\nAt the 2016 election the party polled 4.3 per cent (+3.8) of the nationwide primary vote in the Senate. Only Queensland polled higher for the party than their nationwide percentage − the party polled 9.2 per cent (+8.6) of the primary vote in that state. Pauline Hanson (QLD) and three other One Nation candidates − Malcolm Roberts (QLD), Brian Burston (NSW) and Rod Culleton (WA) were elected to the Senate. Elected to the 3rd Queensland Senate spot, as per convention Hanson is serving a six-year term while the three other One Nation Senators who were elected in the last half of spots were appointed to three-year terms. Culleton was stripped of his seat in January 2017 after he was declared bankrupt. In March 2017, the High Court ruled that Culleton's election to the Senate was invalid in any event because of a criminal conviction in New South Wales. After a court-ordered recount, Culleton was replaced by the second candidate on the WA list, Peter Georgiou.\n\nThe party has a strongly nationalist and conservative platform. Hanson and other party members have denied claims that the party is racist. Hanson says that \"criticism is not racism\" about her statements on immigration and race. Hanson has also said that she enjoys the company of other ethnicities and welcomes people to Australia wherever their origin, but does not want other cultures to overly influence Australia. \n\nOne Nation was formed in 1997 by Pauline Hanson, David Oldfield and David Ettridge. Hanson was an endorsed Liberal Party candidate for the seat of Oxley, Queensland at the 1996 federal election, but was disendorsed by the party shortly before the elections due to comments she made to a local newspaper in Ipswich, Queensland opposing \"race-based welfare\". Oldfield, a councillor on Manly Council in suburban Sydney and at one time an employee of Liberal minister Tony Abbott, was the organisational architect of the party.\n\nThe name \"One Nation\" was chosen to signify belief in national unity, in contrast to a perceived increasing division in Australian society allegedly caused by government policies favouring immigrants and indigenous Australians at the expense of the white Australian majority. The term \"One Nation\" was last used in Australian political life to describe a tax reform package in the early 1990s by the Labor government of Prime Minister Paul Keating (1991–96), whose culturally-cosmopolitan, Asia-centric (internationalist), free-trade, and pro-affirmative action policies were completely antithetical to what supporters of the later One Nation party formed in the late 1990s stood for.\n\nArguing that other political parties were out of touch with mainstream Australia, One Nation ran on a broadly populist and protectionist platform. It promised to drastically reduce immigration and to abolish \"divisive and discriminatory policies ... attached to Aboriginal and multicultural affairs.\" Condemning multiculturalism as a \"threat to the very basis of the Australian culture, identity and shared values\", One Nation rallied against liberal government immigration and multicultural policies which, it argued, were leading to \"the Asianisation of Australia.\" The party also denounced economic rationalism and globalisation, reflecting working-class dissatisfaction with the neo-liberal economic policies embraced by the major parties. Adopting strong protectionist policies, One Nation advocated the restoration of import tariffs, a revival of Australia's manufacturing industry, and an increase in support for small business and the rural sector.\n\nOne Nation became subject to a political campaign by Tony Abbott, who established a trust fund called \"Australians for Honest Politics Trust\" to help bankroll civil court cases against the Party. He was also accused of offering funds to One Nation dissident Terry Sharples to support his court battle against the party. Abbott conceded that the political threat One Nation posed to the Howard Government was \"a very big factor\" in his decision to pursue the legal attack, but he also claimed to be acting \"in Australia's national interest\".\n\nThe party's greatest appeal was in country areas of New South Wales and Queensland, the traditional heartlands of the junior partner in the non-Labor Coalition, the National Party. Indeed, for much of 1997 and 1998, it appeared that One Nation would pass the Nationals.\n\nThe party has been involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance, with Druery claiming that he has been white-anting One Nation since 1999.\n\nOne Nation achieved its peak of support in the 1998 Queensland state election, at which the party won 22.7% of the vote, behind only Labor. In terms of first-preference votes, One Nation received more than either the Liberals or Nationals; its vote share was high enough to render any attempt to calculate a two-party preferred vote meaningless. However, since One Nation's vote was spread out across the state, this was only good enough for fourth place in the legislature (behind Labor, the Liberals and Nationals), with 11 of the 89 seats. This was still enough to deny Labor a majority, as seven of One Nation's seats would have gone to Labor if not for leakage of Coalition preferences. Subsequently, the One Nation contingent in the Queensland Parliament split, with dissident members forming the rival City-Country Alliance in late 1999.\n\nAt the 1998 federal election, Hanson contested the new seat of Blair after a redistribution effectively split Oxley in half. Hanson lost to Liberal candidate Cameron Thompson, and the One Nation candidate in Oxley lost the seat to ALP candidate Bernie Ripoll, but One Nation candidate Heather Hill was elected as a senator for Queensland. Hill's eligibility to sit as a senator was successfully challenged (see Sue v Hill for information on the case) under the Australian Constitution on the basis that she had failed to renounce her childhood British citizenship, despite being a naturalised Australian citizen. The seat went to the party's Len Harris following a recount.\n\nAt the 1999 New South Wales election, David Oldfield was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Council.\n\nIn the 2001 Queensland state election, One Nation won three seats and 8.69% of the primary vote. The City-Country Alliance lost all of its seats, and faded into irrelevance soon afterward.\n\nAt the 2001 state election in Western Australia, One Nation won three seats in the state's Legislative Council. One Nation did not win any seats in state elections in Victoria, South Australia or Tasmania in the following year.\n\nAt the 2001 federal election, the party's vote fell from 9% to 5.5%. Hanson failed in her bid to win a Senate seat from Queensland, despite polling a strong 10% of the primary vote. Hanson failed to win a seat in the New South Wales Legislative Council at the 2003 state election, where she ran as an independent, with the support of the One Nation party. She polled less than 2% of the vote and withdrew from the party's leadership.\n\nSince the 1997 peak, One Nation has been plagued by internal divisions and has split several times. Lawsuits involving ex-members forced Hanson to repay approximately A$500,000 of public funding won at the 1998 Queensland election amid claims that the party was fraudulently registered. The suits alleged that the party was undemocratically constituted in order to concentrate all power in the hands of three people—Hanson, Ettridge and Oldfield (in particular Oldfield)—and that it technically had only two members: Ettridge and Hanson. Even though Hanson's fraud charges were dropped, the Electoral Commission of Queensland never reimbursed Hanson for the monies that they collected from the claim.\n\nThe first Annual General Meeting of the One Nation party was held in April 1999, which critic Paul Reynolds said demonstrated that One Nation lacked organisation.\n\nIn October 2000, Hanson expelled Oldfield from the party. Oldfield had been accused of abusing his authority, usurping power, and setting up alternative political parties under his control. His expulsion created even more instability in a party which was constantly embroiled in scandal and internal strife. Oldfield engineered a split within the party, creating One Nation NSW, in 2001. The new party took advantage of electoral party registration laws to register itself as a political party under the 'One Nation' name with the NSW electoral commission, and achieved registration in April 2002. This meant that the original One Nation party was unable to gain registration for NSW elections, and that any candidates which that party chose to represent them at state elections could not use the party name. Consequently, the original One Nation could only contest Federal elections in NSW under the 'One Nation' banner, whilst the Oldfield group could present itself as 'One Nation' only at state elections.\n\nDisendorsed One Nation candidate Terry Sharples accused the party of not having the 500 members needed for registration, and called for the party to be deregistered, which was carried by the Supreme Court. Hanson appealed the verdict but was unsuccessful. Hanson and Ettridge were later charged with electoral fraud.\n\nAt the 2004 Queensland election, One Nation polled less than 5% of the vote and its sole elected representative, Rosa Lee Long, acted as an independent. One Nation attempted to defend its Queensland Senate seat at the 2004 federal election, but lost it (effectively to the National Party). Len Harris's Senate term expired on 30 June 2005.\n\nOn 8 February 2005, One Nation lost federal party status but was re-registered in time for the 2007 federal election. It still had state parties in Queensland and New South Wales. Subsequently, it created another state party in Western Australia. In the February 2005 Western Australian election, the One Nation vote collapsed.\n\nIn the 2006 South Australian state election, six One Nation candidates stood for the lower house. Their highest levels of the primary vote was 4.1% in the district of Hammond and 2.7% in Goyder, with the other four hovering around 1%. They attracted 0.8% (7559 votes) of the upper house vote. One Nation consequently won no seats in that election.\n\nIn the 2006 Queensland state election, the party contested four of 89 seats, and its vote collapsed. It suffered a swing of 4.3% to be left with just 0.6% of the vote. Its only remaining seat in the state (and country), Tablelands, was retained with an increased majority by Rosa Lee Long. Tablelands was abolished prior to the 2009 Queensland state election, with Lee Long failing to win the seat of Dalrymple.\n\nIn the 2012 Queensland state election the party unsuccessfully contested six seats. The party received only 2,525 first preference votes (representing 0.1% of the total cast) across the state.\n\nDuring its original period of popularity, One Nation had a major impact on Australian politics. The primary effect at state and federal levels was to split the conservative vote and threaten the National Party's support base. The appeal of its policies to the National Party's constituency put great pressure on that party. The rapid rise of the party revealed a substantial number of discontented voters dissatisfied with the major parties.\n\nIn the prologue to her autobiography \"Untamed and Unashamed\", Hanson cites the Howard government's adoption of her policies as an attempt to win back One Nation voters to the Liberal and National parties, stating \"the very same policies I advocated back then ... are being advocated today by the federal government\".\n\nIn 2013, Pauline Hanson rejoined One Nation as a rank-and-file member, until she unsuccessfully contested the Senate for New South Wales at the 2013 federal election.\n\nHanson was returned as leader by the One Nation executive in November 2014, following encouragement from One Nation members and support from the general public. She contested the seat of Lockyer for the party at the January 2015 Queensland state election, falling only 114 votes short of defeating sitting Liberal National Party member Ian Rickuss.\n\nIn July 2015, Hanson announced that the party was renamed the original \"Pauline Hanson's One Nation\" and contested in the Senate for Queensland at the 2016 federal election.\n\nWhen candidate nominations were announced by the Australian Electoral Commission, the party nominated Senate candidates in all states, 12 candidates for the House of Representatives in Queensland and three in New South Wales.\n\nPauline Hanson arranged a \"Fed Up\" tour that began in July 2015 as part of her re-election campaign, flying in a private plane to Rockhampton prior to a Reclaim Australia rally, piloted by James Ashby.\n\nAt the 2016 election the party polled 4.3 per cent (+3.8) of the nationwide primary vote in the Senate. Only Queensland polled higher for the party than their nationwide percentage − the party polled 9.2 per cent (+8.6) of the primary vote in that state. Assisted by halved Senate quotas at the double dissolution election, Pauline Hanson (QLD) and three other One Nation candidates − Malcolm Roberts (QLD), Brian Burston (NSW) and Rod Culleton (WA) − were elected to the Senate. Elected to the 3rd Queensland Senate spot, as per convention Hanson is serving a six-year term while the three other One Nation Senators who were elected in the last half of spots are serving three-year terms. Along with the Nick Xenophon Team, One Nation now holds the balance of power in the Australian Parliament - no bill opposed by Labor and the Greens can pass the Senate without the support of at least two One Nation Senators.\n\nThe highest result in the House of Representatives was 20.9 per cent of the primary vote in Wright (QLD).\n\nOn 18 December 2016 Rod Culleton (WA) left the party after months of legal troubles and party infighting to sit as an independent bringing the number of party senators to 3. Party leader Pauline Hanson responded that Culleton was a \"pain in the backside\" and that she was \"glad to see the back of him\". On 3 February 2017, the High Court of Australia ruled that Culleton's election was invalid due to a conviction for which he was subject to being sentenced at the time of the election, notwithstanding that the conviction was subsequently annulled. The resulting vacancy was filled by a recount of the votes at the election, which resulted in Peter Georgiou taking the seat and returning the One Nation representation in the Senate to four.\n\nIan McAllister regards the current version of One Nation to not have much in the way of policy other than an \"anti-establishment stance\".\n\nSince being elected to the parliament One Nation has voted with the government on a number of welfare cuts.\n\nDuring the Western Australian state election, 2017, several One Nation candidates either quit or were disendorsed. Dane Sorensen provided a copy of the party's Western Australian \"candidate agreement\" form for this election, which all candidates had to sign. It includes an \"administration fee\" of $250,000 if an elected candidate subsequently leaves the party.\n\nOne Nation currently forms a 'conservative bloc' with the Liberal Democratic Party and Shooters, Fishers and Farmers Party in the Western Australia Legislative Council.\n\nThe Australian Electoral Commission is investigating the financial affairs of One Nation from 2014 to the present. This is due to concerns that the plane used by Hanson in the Fed Up tour was an undeclared gift. Former Western Australian One Nation candidates have said that property developer Bill McNee bought the plane for Pauline Hanson's One Nation, but when approached by Four Corners, McNee denied this. Ashby has declared that he owns the plane.\n\nOn 22 May 2017 a new scandal arose when a taped conversation between Pauline Hanson and James Ashby was released. The tape showed that Ashby had supported charging One Nation candidates inflated prices for campaign materials. \n\nOn 27 October 2017 the full High Court, as Court of Disputed Returns, ruled that Malcolm Roberts had been ineligible to be elected to the Parliament.\n\nOn 13 November 2017 Senator Fraser Anning took Malcolm Roberts' position after a recount in the Senate. However, the same day, Senator Anning left the party and became an Independent.\n\nOn 22 March 2018 Hanson announced that One Nation will Back the Turnbull Governments corporate tax cuts.\n\nOn 14 June 2018 Senator Brian Burston announced his resignation from the party to sit as an independent, following a month-long clash with Pauline Hanson centred around the Turnbull Government's corporate tax cuts, on which Hanson had reversed her position. This reduced the party to two senators, with Hanson remaining the only member of One Nation elected at the 2016 Federal election.\n\nOn 15 October, a Senate motion brought by the party stating \"it is OK to be white\" was defeated 31-28 in a vote. The government expressed regret at the support the vote received, blaming it in an administrative error in which its senators were mistakenly instructed to vote positively. Critics noted that the phrase \"it's OK to be white\" has been associated with white supremacist rhetoric. \n\nUnlike the Queensland State Leadership, the changes of the Federal Leadership of the party were largely undocumented (besides the Hanson terms), due to low media attention and confusion of the name of office titles within the party. This list comprises the leaders, most definite, of the party.\nIn August 2017 the party's constitution was changed, for Hanson to become party President for as long as she may wish and to choose her successor, who may also continue until resignation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20850258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20850258", "title": "Progressive war", "text": "Progressive war\n\nProgressive war is a military strategy in which only enemy combatants are targeted, and non-combatants killed or wounded by collateral damage are kept to a minimum. Its principles were established by Dutch jurist Hugo Grotius, who is considered to be a founder of international law, in his book \"De jure belli ac pacis libri tres\" (\"On the Law of War and Peace: Three Books\"), published in 1625. A successful practitioner was Helmuth von Moltke the Elder, as chief of staff of the Prussian Army in the 19th century.\n\nThe opposite of progressive war is unlimited war, which includes civilians as legitimate targets. Unlimited war uses military action against civilians, in the hope of undermining the will to fight by the people and their leaders so that they end their resistance. Examples of unlimited war are cluster bombs, the firebombing of Dresden, the German bombing of British cities during the Blitz, the firebombing of Tokyo and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nThe philosophy of unlimited war is controversial. Many consider it a form of terrorism in the sense of deliberately attacking noncombatants in the hope of changing their mindset. Such ambiguities between unlimited warfare and terrorist strategies could be the source of why many terrorist groups consider themselves honourable fighters, and many consider the US military to be terrorists.\n\nGuerrilla warfare can be considered progressive if it is only enemy combatants that are targeted, but it becomes terrorism when noncombatants are targeted.\n"}
{"id": "50717091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50717091", "title": "Project Genoa II", "text": "Project Genoa II\n\nProject Genoa II was a software project that originated with DARPA's Information Awareness Office and the successor to the Genoa program. Originally part of DARPA's Total Information Awareness, it was later renamed Topsail and handed over to ARDA for further development.\n\nGenoa II was scheduled to be a five-year-long program. It followed up on the research initiated by the first Genoa project. While Genoa primarily focused on intelligence analyses, Genoa II was aimed towards providing means with which computers, software agents, policy makers, and field operatives could collaborate. Eleven different contractors were involved in its development.\n\nThe official goals of Genoa II were to develop and deploy the following:\n\n1. Cognitive aids that allow humans and machines to \"think together\" in real-time about complicated problems;\n\n2. Means to overcome the biases and limitations of the human cognitive system;\n\n3. \"Cognitive amplifiers\" that help teams of people rapidly and fully comprehend complicated and uncertain situations; and,\n\n4. The means to rapidly and seamlessly cut across – and complement – existing stove-piped hierarchical organizational structures by creating dynamic, adaptable, peer-to-peer collaborative networks.\n\nIn 2002, Tom Armour, a veteran of the Genoa project, was selected by John Poindexter to be the director of the new Genoa II program, a component of Total Information Awareness (TIA) effort. It was commissioned under the cost of $54 million.\n\nIn late 2003 TIA was officially shut down by Congress due to unfavorable views from the public. Most of its research was salvaged and its components were transferred to other government agencies for development. Genoa II was renamed \"Topsail\" and handed over to the National Security Agency's Advanced Research and Development Activity division for further work. In October 2005, the Science Applications International Corporation signed a $3.7 million contract for work on Topsail.\n\nTools from the program were utilized in the war in Afghanistan and in other efforts as part of the War on Terror.\n\nIn early 2006 a spokesman for the Air Force Research Laboratory said that Topsail was \"in the process of being canceled due to lack of funds.\" When inquired about Topsail in a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing that February, both National Intelligence Director John Negroponte and FBI Director Robert Mueller said they didn't know about the program's status. Negroponte's deputy, former NSA Director Michael V. Hayden said, \"I'd like to answer in closed session.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "400673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400673", "title": "Proscription", "text": "Proscription\n\nProscription () is, in current usage, a \"decree of condemnation to death or banishment\" (\"Oxford English Dictionary (OED)\") and can be used in a political context to refer to state-approved murder or banishment. The term originated in Ancient Rome, where it included public identification and official condemnation of declared enemies of the state. It has been used broadly since to describe similar governmental and political actions, with varying degrees of nuance, including the \"en masse\" suppression of ideologies and elimination of political rivals or personal enemies. In addition to its recurrences during the various phases of the Roman Republic, it has become a standard term to label: \n\nProscriptions (Latin \"proscriptio\", plural \"proscriptiones\") initially meant public advertisements or notices signifying property or goods for sale.\n\nDuring the dictatorial reign of Sulla, the word took on a more sinister meaning. In 82 or 81 BC, Sulla instituted the process of proscription in order to avenge the massacres of Gaius Marius and his son. He instituted a notice for the sale of confiscated property belonging to those declared public enemies of the state (modern historians estimate about 520 people were proscribed as opposed to the ancient estimate of 4,700 people) and therefore condemned to death those proscribed, called \"proscripti\" in Latin.\n\nThere were multiple reasons why the ancient Roman government may have desired to proscribe or attribute multiple other forms of pain. One of the most prevalent reasons for punishment are treason crimes, also known as lex maiestatis. Treason crimes consisted of a very broad and large number of regulations, and such crimes had a negative effect on the government. This list includes, but is not limited to: assisting an enemy in any way, Crimen Laesae Majestasis, acts of subversion and usurpation, offense against the peace of the state, offenses against the administration of justice, and violating absolute duties. Overall, crimes in which the state, emperor, the state’s tranquility, or offenses against the good of the people would be considered treason, and, therefore, would constitute proscription. Some of these regulations are understandable and comparable to safety laws within the United States today; however, others, like violating absolute duties, could very easily be accidents or circumstantial crises that would deserve punishment regardless.\n\nPunishments for treason were quite harsh by today’s standards and were meant to highlight the seriousness and shamefulness of the treason crimes committed. There were a variety of punishments for capital crimes, including death, loss of a freedman’s status, loss of citizenship with a loss of family rights, and a loss of family rights only. Death was a very common punishment and was referred to as \"summum supplicium\", or the \"extreme penalty\". The death sentence was often the punishment for all but the mildest forms of treason. Julius Caesar was an influential framer of the law on treason. The Interdiction from Water and Fire was a civil excommunication resulting in ultimate exile, which included forfeiture of citizenship and forfeiture of property. Those who were condemned would be deported to an island. Emperor Augustus frequently utilized this method of exile, as he desired to keep banished men from banding together in large groups. Such punishment was given for only the mildest forms of treason, in comparison to the death penalty, which served for most other treason crimes. Augustus also created the prefect, whose powers included the ability to banish, deport, or send to the mines. The prefect also heard appeals.\n\nAn early instance of mass proscription took place in 82 BC, when Lucius Cornelius Sulla was appointed \"dictator rei publicae constituendae\" (\"Dictator for the Reconstitution of the Republic\"). Sulla proceeded to have the Senate draw up a list of those he considered enemies of the state and published the list in the Roman Forum. Any man whose name appeared on the list was \"ipso facto\" stripped of his citizenship and excluded from all protection under law; reward money was given to any informer who gave information leading to the death of a proscribed man, and any person who killed a proscribed man was entitled to keep part of his estate (the remainder went to the state). No person could inherit money or property from proscribed men, nor could any woman married to a proscribed man remarry after his death. Many victims of proscription were decapitated and their heads were displayed on spears in the Forum.\n\nSulla used proscription to restore the depleted Roman Treasury (\"Aerarium\"), which had been drained by costly civil and foreign wars in the preceding decade, and to eliminate enemies (both real and potential) of his reformed state and constitutions; the plutocratic knights of the Ordo Equester were particularly hard-hit. Giving the procedure a particularly sinister character in the public eye was the fact that many of the proscribed men, escorted from their homes at night by groups of men all named \"Lucius Cornelius\", never appeared again. (These men were all Sulla's freedmen.) This gave rise to a general fear of being taken from one's home at night as a consequence of any outwardly seditious behaviour.\n\nSulla's proscription was bureaucratically overseen, and the names of informers and those who profited from killing proscribed men were entered into the public record. Because Roman law could criminalise acts \"ex post facto\", many informers and profiteers were later prosecuted.\n\nThe proscription of 82 BC was overseen by Sulla's freedman steward Lucius Cornelius Chrysogonus, and was rife with corruption.\n\nThe proscription lists created by Sulla led to mass terror in Rome. During this time, \"the cities of Italy became theaters of execution.\" Citizens were terrified to find their names on the lists. Those whose names were listed were ultimately sentenced to death. The executions were brutal and consisted of beheading. Often, the heads were then put on display for the city to see. The bodies of the condemned were often mutilated and dragged before being thrown into the Tiber River. Additionally, those who were condemned lost rights even after their brutal death. Those killed were denied the right to a funeral, and all of their possessions were auctioned off, often to the ones who killed them. Negative consequences arose for anyone that chose to assist those on the list, despite not being listed on the proscribed lists themselves. Anyone who was found guilty of assisting the condemned was capitally punished.\n\nFamilies were also punished as a result of being related to one of the proscribed. It was forbidden to mourn the death of a proscribed person. According to Plutarch, the greatest injustice of all the consequences was stripping the rights of their children and grandchildren. While those proscribed and their loved ones faced harsh consequences, the people who assisted the government by killing any person on the proscription list were actually rewarded.\n\nThe proscription of 43 BC was the second major proscription. It began with an agreement in November 43 between the triumvirs Octavian Caesar, Marcus Antonius, and Marcus Lepidus after two long meetings. Their aim was to avenge Julius Caesar’s assassination, eliminate political enemies, and acquire their properties. The proscription was aimed at Julius Caesar’s conspirators, such as Brutus and Cassius, and other individuals who had taken part in the civil war, including wealthy people, senators, knights, and republicans such as Sextus Pompey and Cicero. There were 2,000 names on the list in total, and a handsome reward of 2,500 drachmae for bringing back the head of a free person on the list (a slave's head was worth 1,000 drachmae); the same rewards were given to anyone who gave information on where someone on the list was hiding. Anyone who tried to save people on the list was added to the list. The material belongings of the dead victims were to be confiscated. Some of the listed were stripped of their property but protected from death by their relatives in the Triumvirate (\"e.g.\", Lucius Julius Caesar and Lepidus' brother). Most, however, were killed, in some cases gruesomely. Cicero, his younger brother Quintus Tullius Cicero (one of Julius Caesar's legates) and Marcus Favonius were all killed in the proscription. Cicero's head and hands were famously cut off and fastened to the Rostra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34290739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34290739", "title": "Provincial governments of South Africa", "text": "Provincial governments of South Africa\n\nThe nine provinces of South Africa are governed by provincial governments which form the second layer of government, between the national government and the municipalities. The provincial governments are established, and their structure defined, by Chapter Six of the Constitution of South Africa.\n\nThe provincial governments are structured according to a parliamentary system in which the executive is dependent on and accountable to the legislature. In each province the provincial legislature is directly elected by proportional representation, and the legislature in turn elects one of its members as Premier to head the executive. The Premier appoints an Executive Council (a cabinet), consisting of members of the legislature, to administer the various departments of the provincial administration.\n\nThe powers of the provincial governments are circumscribed by the national constitution, which limits them to certain listed \"functional areas\". In some areas the provincial governments' powers are concurrent with those of the national government, while in other areas the provincial governments have exclusive powers. The constitution prescribes a principle of \"co-operative government\" whereby the various layers of government must co-ordinate their actions and legislation; it also lays down a series of rules for resolving conflicts between national and provincial legislation.\n\nEach province has a unicameral provincial legislature, varying in size from 30 to 80 members depending on the population of the province. The members of the provincial legislature are elected by party-list proportional representation for a usual term of five years, although under certain circumstances the legislature may be dissolved before its term expires. By convention elections to the provincial legislatures are held on the same day as elections to the National Assembly; the most recent such election was held on 7 May 2014. At that election the African National Congress (ANC) won a majority in eight of the provinces, while the Democratic Alliance (DA) won a majority in the Western Cape.\n\nThe head of the provincial executive is the Premier, who is elected by the provincial legislature from amongst its members; frequently the Premier will be the provincial leader of the majority party. The term of office of the Premier is the same as that of the legislature (normally five years) with a term limit of two terms. The legislature can force the resignation of the Premier by a motion of no confidence. If the Premiership is vacant and the legislature fails to elect a new Premier within 30 days, the legislature is dissolved and an election is called.\n\n\nThe Premier appoints an Executive Council (a cabinet) of five to ten members of the provincial legislature. The Members of the Executive Council (or MECs) are responsible for the various departments of the provincial administration. Because the responsibilities of the provincial governments are limited to those listed in the constitution, the portfolios are quite similar across the provinces. Common MEC portfolios and departmental responsibilities include:\nSeveral of these areas may be combined in one department and the portfolio of one MEC.\n\nSouth Africa has a single national court system, and the administration of justice is the responsibility of the national government. At present the jurisdictional boundaries of the High Courts do not correspond entirely with the provincial boundaries; the Superior Courts Bill currently before Parliament will rationalise the courts so that there is a single High Court division in each province.\n\nThe provincial executive does play a role in the selection of High Court judges, as the Premier of a province is \"ex officio\" a member of the Judicial Service Commission when it deals with matters relating to a High Court that sits in that province.\n\nA provincial legislature can, by a two-thirds majority vote, adopt a constitution for the province; it is not necessary to do so, as the national constitution provides a complete structure for provincial government. A provincial constitution must be consistent with the national constitution except that it can provide for different structures and procedures for the executive and the legislature.\n\nThe only province that has adopted a constitution is the Western Cape; in doing so it chose to rename its legislature the Provincial Parliament. It also calls its Executive Council the Provincial Cabinet, and the MECs are called Provincial Ministers.\n\n"}
{"id": "23642299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642299", "title": "Reformist Centre", "text": "Reformist Centre\n\nReformist Centre, or Reformist centre, is a political term used in various countries around the world to define various kinds of political thought, but always connected with the centre, moderation and social reformism.\n\nThe Spanish People's Party is the main political force to use the term Reformist centre.\nReformist Centre is used by the People's Party for defining itself ideologically since the second half of the 1990s, with the intention of including all the ideologies that it affirms to have in its middle: right, conservatism, Christian democracy, and liberalism.\n\nAccording to the article 2 (Ideology), of the status of the People's Party:\n\nThe People's Party defines itself as a political formation of the reformist centre to the service of the general interests of Spain, which has the person as the axis of its political action and social progress as one of its objectives. With clear European vocation and inspiration in the values of freedom, democracy, tolerance and Christian humanism of western tradition, [it] defends the rights of the human being and its inherent rights and liberties; it secures democracy and the rule of law as the basis of social living and coexistence in freedom; it promotes, inside a market economy, territorial solidarity, modernisation and social cohesion as well as equal opportunity and the lead role of society through the participation of the citizens in political life; it advocates for an international community founded in peace and universal respect of the human rights.\n\nThis move on Aznar to use this term is frequently accused of simple marketing of ideas, use of an ambiguous term or of being just a right-wing/centre-right answer to social democrat/social liberal Third Way, trying to give a new moderate and centrist image to the rightist PP, without actually moving it to the centre (Javier Arenas described their claim to being centre as '(...) nor equidistance between right and left, nor the intermediate zone between liberalism and extreme socialism. It is an attitude of openness contrary to sectarianism'), instead of an actual re-ideologisation, adopting some Christian democratic concepts (even inspiring its 1989 program on the EPP's program) without actually adopting the ideology, not losing votes from other ideologies in the party.\n\nSimilar steps taken by the party include the adoption by the party, since 1996, of socialist II Republic politician Manuel Azaña's legacy.\n\nThe term is also used elsewhere, not always in a way synonym to the PP's:\n\nThe term has been retroactively been used to refer to radicals and such centrist elements of the reform movement\n"}
{"id": "34154725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34154725", "title": "Republican Party Reptile", "text": "Republican Party Reptile\n\nRepublican Party Reptile, subtitled \"The Confessions, Adventures, Essays and (Other) Outrages of P. J. O'Rourke\" is a 1987 collection of essays by American satirical writer P. J. O'Rourke. In humorist Lewis Frumkes' review of the collection, he described it as only occasionally displaying O'Rourke's best writing.\nO'Rourke planned to promote the book at the 1988 Republican National Convention. Though he described himself as a conservative Republican, this was not allowed, reportedly because the GOP did not appreciate O'Rourke's sense of humor.\nIn the essay that gives its title to the collection O'Rourke describes a \"Republican Party Reptile\":\n\nWe are in favor of: guns, drugs, fast cars, free love (if our wives don't find out), a sound dollar, and a strong military with spiffy uniforms. There are thousands of people in America who feel this way, especially after three or four drinks. If all of us would unite and work together, we could give this country. . . well, a real bad hangover.\"\n\nThe collection includes the article \"How to Drive Fast on Drugs While Getting Your Wing-Wang Squeezed and Not Spill Your Drink\" which had previously been published in \"National Lampoon\" in 1979, and was later included in the collection \"Driving Like Crazy\".\n"}
{"id": "44409306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409306", "title": "Swiss children coercion reparation initiative", "text": "Swiss children coercion reparation initiative\n\nThe Swiss children coercion reparation initiative (German: \"Wiedergutmachungsinitiativ\") was a Swiss federal popular initiative to change the federal constitution, which was launched in April 2014.\n\nIn April 2014, the collection of Swiss citizens' signatures started, and at least 100,000 had signed by 1 October 2015. The popular initiative addressed the fate of forced child labourers in Switzerland, the so-called \"Verdingkinder\", a term formerly used in the Swiss-German language. Another \"integration project,\" related to the so-called \"misplaced persons,\" affected tens of thousands of juveniles, who were placed as labourers at Swiss farms, with low pay. Among them were also \"Fahrende\" or \"Jenisch\" juveniles affected by the then Swiss foundation \"Kinder der Landstrasse,\" though not their families.\n\nThe initiative was actively supported by the \"Beobachter\" revealed the fates of the \"Verdingkinder\" and the \"Kinder der Landstrasse\" foundation. The popular initiative, set up by Guido Fluri and other prominent citizens, among them writer Lukas Hartmann, was supported among others, by the parent organization of the Swiss churches and the association of the Swiss teachers.\n\nThe initiative was started by an inter-political committee and addressed the inadequate measures by the Swiss governmental authorities. It demanded:\n\nIt was pointed out that only severely affected victims obtain redress and that an independent commission should be formed to examine each case individually.\n\n\"Verdingkinder\" (literally: \"contract children\" or \"indentured child labourers\") were children in Switzerland who were taken from their parents, often due to poverty or for \"moral reasons\" (usually because their mothers were unmarried and poor), of \"Gypsy\"–\"Yeniche\" (Swiss German also \"Fahrende\") origin and sent to live with new families, often poor farmers who needed cheap labour. \n\nMany of these children, when they grew to be adults, have come forward to claim they were severely mistreated by their new \"families,\" suffering neglect, beatings, and other physical and psychological abuse.\n\nThere were auctions where children were handed over to the farmer asking the least money from the authorities, thus securing cheap labour for his farm and relieving the authority from the financial burden of looking after the children. In the 1930s, in the Canton of Bern, about 20% of all agricultural labourers were children below the age of 15. The actions of the Swiss municipality guardianship authorities were tolerated by the federal authorities until the 1960s. Swiss historian Marco Leuenberger found that in 1930 there were some 35,000 indentured children, while, between 1920 and 1970, more than 100,000 are believed to have been placed with families or homes. Ten thousand former \"Verdingkinder\", women and men in Switzerland, are still alive in the mid-2010s.\n\nThe initiative demands that the Swiss Federal Constitution should be amended as follows:\n\nOn December 19, 2014 the initiative was submitted at the Federal Chancellery (\"Bundeskanzlei\"). On 16 September 2016 both chambers of the Swiss parliament approved that presumably to each surviving individual will paid CHF 25,000 in compensation. As of March 2018, about 7000 victims have applied for compensation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46399165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46399165", "title": "World communism", "text": "World communism\n\nWorld communism (also international communism and global communism) is a form of communism of international scope. The long-term goal of world communism is a worldwide communist society that is stateless (lacking any state), which may be achieved through an intermediate-term goal of either a voluntary association of sovereign states (a global alliance) or a world government (a single worldwide state). A series of internationals have worked toward world communism and they have included the First International, the Second International, the Third International (the Communist International or Comintern), the Fourth International, the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement, the World Socialist Movement and variant offshoots. These are a quite heterogeneous group despite their common ultimate goal of a stateless and global communist society.\n\nDuring the Stalinist era, the idea of socialism in one country, which many international communists considered unworkable, became part of the ideology of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union as Joseph Stalin and his supporters concluded that it was naive to think that world revolution was imminent. This caused great disillusionment among many communists worldwide, who agreed with Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin that international scope was vital to communist success. Other currents of national communism, especially after World War II, tempered the prewar popularity of international communism. \n\nThe end of the Cold War, with the revolutions of 1989 and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, is often called the fall of communism and a broad consensus since then is that any advent of international communism is not likely. Nevertheless, some international communists remain among some factions of Maoists, left communists, some present-day Russian communists and others. \n\nMarxist philosophy held that because capitalism had become global (and thus capitalists could be expected to cooperate internationally to maintain dominance in class conflict), the proletariat would need to cooperate internationally as well via proletarian internationalism to avoid continued subjugation via divide and rule (thus the rallying cry of \"Workers of the world, unite!\"). In this view, after a period of international socialism the terminal stage of development of the (future) history of communism would be world communism. Such theory may treat world communism as a peaceful and prosperous end result, something almost anyone could endorse, but it is the transition to world communism that is contentious. World communism is to be achieved by world revolution, according to a theory that was popular in the period 1917 to around 1933 (at least). World communism is incompatible with the existence of nation states because most communists believe that nations should unite, whether in supranational unions of sovereign states or world government, until such time as either abolition of the state or withering away of the state would occur because governance would no longer require state institutions. In other words, the people of a communist society would be self-governing via direct democracy so direct that the state would not even exist.\nAbolition of the state is not in itself a distinctively Marxist doctrine. It was sometime it was happened by any of the country held by various socialist and anarchist thinkers of the nineteenth century as well as some present-day anarchists (libertarians are anti-statist typically in a subtly different sense, in that they support small government although not absence of government or state). The crux here is a text of the Friedrich Engels, from his \"Anti-Dühring\". It is often cited as \"The state is not 'abolished,' it withers away\". This is from the pioneer work of historical materialism, a formulation of Marx's idea of a materialist conception of history. The withering away of the state is a graphic formulation, that has passed into cliché. The translation (Engels was writing in German) is also given as: \"The state is not 'abolished'. It dies out\". Reference to the whole passage shows that this happens only after the proletariat has seized the means of production. The schematic is therefore revolution, transitional period, ultimate period. Although the ultimate period sounds like a utopia, Marx and Engels did not consider themselves utopian socialists, but rather scientific socialists. They considered violence necessary for resistance of wage slavery.\n\nWhereas for Engels the transitional period was reduced to a single act, for Lenin thirty to forty years later it had become extended and \"obviously lengthy\". In the same place, he argues strongly that Marx's conception of communist society is not utopian, but takes into account the heritage of what came before.\n\nThis gives at least roughly the position on world communism as the Comintern was set up in 1919: world revolution is necessary for the setting up of world communism, but not as an immediate or clearly sufficient event.\n\nDuring the Stalinist era, the idea of socialism in one country, which many internationalists considered unworkable, became part of the ideology of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union as Stalin and his supporters concluded that the transitional period would indeed be very long and complicated. Advocates of socialism in one country had not abandoned the goal of ultimate world communism, but they considered it naive to think world revolution was imminent. Thus the Soviet Union dissolved the Third International during World War II. However, Stalin did not intend to implement isolationism despite this one-country approach. Despite retaining the earlier Bolshevik terminology equating imperialism with capitalism and thus decrying empire, the Soviet Union instead pursued a \"de facto\" empire of satellite states, similar in ways to the czarist Russian Empire although Soviet ideology could not admit that, to counter the influence of capitalist countries. It also supported revolutionary socialism around the world to continue to work toward world communism, however distant it might be. Thus it backed the 26th of July Movement in the Cuban Revolution, the North Vietnamese in the Vietnam War and the MPLA in the Angolan Civil War. The domino theory of the Cold War was driven by this intent as anti-communists feared that isolationism by capitalist countries would lead to the collapse of their self-defense.\n\nThe reform and opening of China and the restructuring and openness of the Soviet Union, although they were quite different, both marked a change of direction away from the proselytizing nature of international communism as Lenin and Leon Trotsky had known it. The end of the Cold War, which brought the revolutions of 1989 and the dissolution of the Soviet Union, is often called the fall of communism and a broad consensus since then is that any advent of international communism is not likely. Nevertheless, some international communists remain among some factions of Maoists, left communists, some present-day Russian communists and others. A recent example of an organization seeking the establishment of world communism is the now-defunct Revolutionary Internationalist Movement.\n"}
