{"id": "3893227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3893227", "title": "Bale Oak", "text": "Bale Oak\n\nThe Bale Oak was a large oak tree in Bale, a village in northern Norfolk, England that measured in circumference, was over 500 years old and, reportedly, featured branches over long.\n\nIn the middle of the 14th century, All Saints church was erected immediately east of the site of the tree. According to folk legend, the tree had previously been a site for pre-Christian worship and may have been a part of a larger grove.\n\nIn 1795, the oak was severely damaged. The oak was heavily pollarded and the removed bark and some of the wood was sold to the Hardys of Letheringsett for tanning.\n\nNorfolk historian Blomfield recorded use of the oak in the 18th century:\n\nDeemed dangerous by the local populace, the abuse of the tree lead to its destruction in 1860. The Lord of the Manor Sir Willoughby Jones ordered the tree removed and, with much local mourning, the remains taken carted to Cranmer Hall at Fakenham.\n\nThe site is now covered by a grove of Holm oaks and is protected by the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty.\n\n"}
{"id": "7486413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7486413", "title": "Bamse (St. Bernard)", "text": "Bamse (St. Bernard)\n\nBamse (Norwegian for \"teddy bear\") (1937 – 22 July 1944) was a St. Bernard dog that became the heroic mascot of the Free Norwegian Forces during the Second World War. He became a symbol of Norwegian freedom during the war.\n\nBamse was bought in Oslo, Norway by Captain Erling Hafto, the master of the Norwegian whale-catcher \"Thorodd\", and he was taken to sea from an early age. In her childhood memories of pre-war Honningsvåg, Captain Hafto's daughter Vigdis remembers Bamse as a very kind dog that would look after the children while they were playing.\n\nAt the onset of the Second World War, \"Thorodd\" was drafted into the Royal Norwegian Navy as a coastal patrol vessel, based in Hammerfest, and Bamse was enrolled as an official crew member on 9 February 1940. After the Nazi invasion of Norway on 9 April 1940 the \"Thorodd\" was part of the naval opposition to the Germans and had as one of its uses POW transport. Shortly before the 10 June 1940 capitulation of mainland Norway, \"Thorodd\" was one of 13 Norwegian naval vessels to escape to the UK, arriving 17 June 1940. She was converted to a minesweeper in Rosyth from June 30, 1940 and stationed in Montrose and Dundee in Scotland, where she remained for the rest of the war.\n\nBamse lifted the morale of the ship's crew, and became well known to the local civilian population. In battle, he would stand on the front gun tower of the boat, and the crew made him a special metal helmet. His acts of heroism included saving a young lieutenant commander who had been attacked by a man wielding a knife by pushing the assailant into the sea, and dragging back to shore a sailor who had fallen overboard. He was also known for breaking up fights amongst his crewmates by putting his paws on their shoulders, calming them down and then leading them back to the ship. One of Bamse's tasks in Scotland was to round up his crew and escort them back to the ship in time for duty or curfew. To do this, he travelled on the local buses unaccompanied, and the crew bought him a bus pass which was attached to his collar. Bamse would wander down to the bus stop at Broughty Ferry Road and take the bus down to Dundee. He would get off at the bus stop near his crew's favourite watering hole, the Bodega Bar and go in to fetch them. If he could not locate his friends he would take the bus back to base.\n\nFrom his ship's mascot, Bamse became mascot of the Royal Norwegian Navy, and then of all the Free Norwegian Forces. An iconic photograph of him wearing a Norwegian sailor's cap was used on patriotic Easter cards and Christmas cards during the war. The PDSA made him an official Allied Forces Mascot.\n\nSuffering from heart failure, Bamse died on the dockside at Montrose on 22 July 1944. He was buried with full military honours. Hundreds of Norwegian sailors, Allied servicemen, schoolchildren and townsfolk from Montrose and Dundee attended his funeral. His grave site in the sand dunes has been looked after by local people. The Royal Norwegian Navy holds a commemorative ceremony every ten years.\n\nBamse was posthumously awarded Norges Hundeorden on 30 September 1984 for his war service. In 2006, he was also awarded the PDSA Gold Medal (sometimes known as the \"animals' George Cross\") for gallantry and devotion to duty, the only World War II animal to have received this honour. \n\nOn 17 October 2006, HRH The Duke of York unveiled a larger than life sized bronze statue of Bamse, made by Scottish sculptor Alan Herriot, on Montrose's Wharf Street. The Norwegian consul in Edinburgh, Bjørn Eilertsen, brought greetings from Norway's king, Harald V. Other attendees included the Lathallan School Pipe Band, Royal Norwegian Navy representatives, Hans Petter Oset (director of the Royal Norwegian Navy Museum), and Vigdis Hafto (the daughter of Bamse's owner). \n\nIn August 2008 author and columnist Angus Whitson and Andrew Orr of the Montrose Bamse Project published a new book, \"Sea Dog Bamse\". The book charts Bamse's life — from prewar days in Honningsvåg, through the five years of war, until his heartfelt death. Using extensive source material and new eyewitness accounts, it relates stories of the Hafto family, the Norwegian Campaign, the minesweeper \"Thorodd\" and its crew, the naval war off East Scotland, and the bonds between the Norwegians and the Scots are threaded together. The hardback version became a Scottish best-seller, and a paperback version was released in October 2009.\n\nMedia attention renewed interest in Bamse in Norway. The Royal Norwegian Navy Museum (Marinemuseet) at Horten planned to install a smaller bronze version of the statue. In addition, the mayor of Nordkapp municipality (which includes Honningsvåg), Kristina Hansen, and project manager Sigurd Berg-Hansen visited Montrose in November 2008, and launched a campaign to raise funds to purchase and install a duplicate bronze statue of Bamse on the waterfront at Honningsvåg, which currently has about 250,000 annual visitors. In December 2008 the Norwegian Minister of Defence, Anne-Grete Strøm-Erichsen announced that her ministry supported the Bamse project in Honningsvåg and would grant to the memorial statue. On 16 May 2009 Royal Norwegian Navy cutter MV \"Leikvin\" transported a Bamse statue from the Port of Leith, Scotland to Honningsvåg. On 19 June 2009 schoolchildren from Honningsvåg and from Montrose unveiled the statue on the Honningsvåg harbour, in front of the museum (which tells his story in detail). The combined bands of the Skolekorps and Lathallan School's pipe band entertained the large crowd of supporters from Scotland, Norway, Sweden and Canada. The new statue of Bamse at Honningsvåg faces south west towards Montrose, and the Scottish statue is faces north-east towards Honningsvåg.\n\nDuring 2016 a 17 acre forest was planted in honour of Bamse. The scheme \"Bamse's Wood\" was supported by the Forestry Commission. The location is at Guards Lonning, Nether Wasdale, Cumbria, CA20 1EN OS grid ref NY108056.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "245146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245146", "title": "Bowfin", "text": "Bowfin\n\nBowfin (\"Amia calva\") are bony fishes related to gars in the infraclass Holostei. Common names include mudfish, mud pike, dogfish, griddle, grinnel, swamp trout and choupique. They are regarded as taxonomic relicts, being the sole surviving species of the order Amiiformes which dates from the Jurassic to the Eocene, persisting to the present. Although bowfin are highly evolved, they are often referred to as \"primitive fishes\" because they have retained some morphological characteristics of their early ancestors.\n\nBowfin are demersal freshwater piscivores native to North America, and commonly found throughout much of the eastern United States, and in southern Ontario and Quebec. Fossil deposits indicate Amiiformes were once widespread in both freshwater and marine environments with a range that spanned across North and South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. Now their range is limited to much of the eastern United States and adjacent southern Canada, including the drainage basins of the Mississippi River, Great Lakes and various rivers exiting in the Eastern Seaboard or Gulf of Mexico. Their preferred habitat includes vegetated sloughs, lowland rivers and lakes, swamps and backwater areas; they are also occasionally found in brackish water. They are stalking, ambush predators known to move into the shallows at night to prey on fish and aquatic invertebrates such as crawfish, mollusks, and aquatic insects.\n\nLike gars, bowfin are bimodal breathers which means they have the capacity to breathe both water and air. Their gills exchange gases in the water allowing them to exploit oxygen for breathing, but they also have a gas bladder that serves to maintain buoyancy, and also allows them to breathe air by means of a small pneumatic duct connected from the foregut to the gas bladder. They can break the surface to gulp air, which allows them to survive conditions of aquatic hypoxia that would be lethal to most other species.\n\nThe average length of a bowfin is ; females typically grow to , males to . Records indicate bowfin can reach in length, and weigh . Young of the year typically grow to by October. Females tend to grow larger than males.\nThe body of the bowfin is elongated and cylindrical, with the sides and back olive to brown in color, often with vertical bars, and dark reticulations, or camouflaged pattern. The dorsal fin has horizontal bars, and the caudal fin has irregular vertical bars. The underside is white or cream, and the paired fins and anal fin are bright green. During larval stage, hatchlings from about total length are black and tadpole-like in appearance. At approximately total length they have been described as looking like miniature placoderms. They grow quickly, and typically leave the nest within 4 to 6 weeks after hatching. Young males have a black eyespot on the base of the tail (caudal peduncle) that is commonly encircled by an orange-yellowish border while the female's is black, if present at all. It is thought the purpose of the eyespot is to confuse predators, deflecting attacks away from the head of the fish to its tail, which affords the bowfin an opportunity to escape predation. The bowfin is so named for its long, undulating dorsal fin consisting of 145 to 250 rays, and running from the middle of the back to the base of the tail.\n\nThe skull of the bowfin is made of two layers of skull, the dermatocranium and the chondrocranium. The chondrocranium layer cannot be seen because it is located below the dermal bones. The bowfin skull is made up of 28 fused bones, which compose the dermatocranium. The roof of the mouth is made up of 3 bones, the ectopterygoid, the palantine, and the vomer. The teeth are on two bones, the premaxillae and the maxillae. Another three bones make up the lower jaw the dentary, the angular, and the surangular. The cranial surface of the skull is made up of the nasals, the antorbital, the lacrimal, the parietal, the intertemporal, the post parietal, the supratemporal, the extra scapular, the post temporal, and the opercular. The entirety of the skull is attached to the girdle through another set of bones.\nBowfin are often referred to as \"living fossils\", or \"primitive fishes\" because they retained some of the primitive characters common to their ancestral predecessors, including a modified (rounded externally) heterocercal caudal fin, a highly vascularized gas bladder lung, vestiges of a spiral valve, and a bony gular plate. The bony gular plate is located underneath the head on the exterior of the lower jaw between the two sides of the lower jaw bone. Other distinguishing characteristics include long, sharp teeth, and two protruding tube-like nostrils. Unlike all of the most primitive actinopterygians, the scales of bowfin differ in that they are not ganoid scales, rather they are large, single-layered cycloid scales closer in similarity to more derived teleosts.\nNorthern snakeheads (\"Channa argus\") are commonly mistaken for bowfin because of similarities in appearance, most noticeably their elongated, cylindrical shape, and long dorsal fin that runs along their backs. Northern snakeheads are piscivorous fishes native to the rivers and estuaries of China, Russia, and Korea. However, unlike bowfin which are native to North America, the northern snakehead is considered an invasive species and environmentally harmful. Some contrasting differences in bowfin include a black eyespot on their caudal peduncle, a tan and olive coloration, a shorter anal fin, a more rounded head, and an upper jaw that is longer than its lower jaw.\n\nThe burbot, a predatory fish native to streams and lakes of North America and Eurasia, is also commonly mistaken for bowfin. Burbots can be distinguished by their flat head and chin barbel, long anal fin, and pelvic fins situated beneath the pectoral fins.\n\nThe first fishes lacked jaws and used negative pressure to suck their food in through their mouths. The jaw in the bowfin is a result of their evolutionary need to be able to catch and eat bigger and more nutritious prey. As a result of being able to gather more nutrients, Bowfin are able to live a more active lifestyle. The jaw of a bowfin has several contributions. The maxilla and premaxilla are fused and the posterior chondrocranium articulates with the vertebra which allows the jaw freedom to rotate. The suspensorium includes several bones and articulates with the snout, brain case, and the mandible. When the jaw opens epaxial muscles lift the chondrocranium which is attached to the upper jaw, and adductor muscles close the lower jaw. This ability to open and close the jaw allows the bowfin to become more of a predator, in that it can catch bigger prey and be able to mechanical catch, and digest it.\n\nThe vertebral column in bowfin is ossified and in comparison to earlier fishes, the centra are the major support for the body, whereas in earlier fish the notochord was the main form of support. Neural spines and ribs provide additional support and help stabilize unpaired fins. In bowfin neural spines and ribs also increase in prominence, an evolutionary aspect that helps them stabilize unpaired fins. The evolution of the vertebral column allows the bowfin to withstand lateral bending that puts the column under compression without breaking. This, in turn, allows the bowfin to have more controlled and powerful movements, in comparison to fish that had only a notochord. The bowfin has a rounded heterocercal tail that resembles a homocercal tail. This type of tail gives the body a streamlined shape which allows the bowfin to improve its swimming ability by reducing drag. These types of tails are common in fish with gas bladders, because the bladder supplies the fish with natural buoyancy.\n\nThe bowfin is an actinopterygii which means that the pectoral girdle is partly endochondral but mostly dermal bone. In this group of fishes the fins function to maneuver, brake, and for slight positional adjustments. The pectoral girdle of the bowfin has six parts. The post temporal, supracleithrum, postcleithrum, cleithrum, scapulacoracoid, and the clavicle make up the pectoral girdle. The pectoral girdle is attached to the skull. The pectoral girdle is made of mostly dermal and some endochondral bone. The paired pectoral and pelvic fins of fish are homologous with the limbs of tetrapods.\n\nBowfin, like other physostomes such as bichirs (Polypteridae), gars (Lepisosteidae), and the lungfishes (Dipnoi), are capable of bimodal respiration. They can extract oxygen from the water when breathing through their gills, and can also break the water's surface to breathe or gulp air through a small pneumatic duct connected from their foregut to the gas bladder. When performing low-level physical activity, bowfin obtain more than half of their oxygen from breathing air. Bowfin have two distinct air-breathing mechanisms used to ventilate the gas bladder. Type I air breaths are consistent with the action of exhale-inhale stimulated by aerial or aquatic hypoxia to regulate O gas exchange; type II air breaths are by inhalation alone which is believed to regulate gas bladder volume for buoyancy control. Bimodal respiration helps bowfin survive and maintain their metabolic rate in hypoxic conditions. The rate of air breathing is higher in darkness, when the fish is more active.\n\nBowfin blood can adapt to warm, acidic waters. The fish becomes inactive in waters below ; at this temperature they breathe almost no air; however, with increasing temperature their air breathing increases. Their preferred temperature range is between , with the temperature of maximum activity. Air breathing is at a maximum in the range .\n\nHerpetologist Wilfred T. Neill reported in 1950 that he unearthed a bowfin aestivating in a chamber below the ground surface, in diameter, from a river. It was further noted that flood levels had previously reached the area, and receded. It is not unusual for riverine species like bowfin to move into backwaters with flood currents, and become trapped when water levels recede. While aestivation is anecdotally documented by multiple researchers, laboratory experiments have suggested instead that bowfin are physiologically incapable of surviving more than three to five days of air exposure. However, no field manipulation has been performed. Regardless of the lack of evidence confirming the bowfin's ability to aestivate, it has been noted that bowfin can survive prolonged conditions of exposure to air because they have the ability to breathe air. Their gill filaments and lamellae are rigid in structure which helps prevent the lamellae from collapsing and aids gas exchange even during air exposure.\n\nCompeting hypotheses and debates continue over the evolution of \"Amia\" and relatives, including their relationship among basal extant teleosts, and organization of clades. Bowfin are the last remaining member of Halecomorphi, a group that includes many extinct species in several families. Halecomorphs were generally accepted as the sister group to Teleostei but not without question. While a halecostome pattern of neopterygian clades was produced in morphology-based analyses of extant actinopterygians, a different result was produced with fossil taxa which showed a monophyletic Holostei. Monophyletic Holostei were also recovered by at least two nuclear gene analyses, in an independent study of fossil and extant fishes, and in an analysis of ultraconserved genomic elements.\n\nThe extant ray-finned fishes of the subclass Actinopterygii include 42 orders, 431 families and over 23,000 species. They are currently classified into two infraclasses, Chondrostei (holosteans) and Neopterygii (teleost fishes). Sturgeons, paddlefish, bichirs and reed fish compose the thirty-eight species of chondrosteans, and are considered relict species. Included in the over 23,000 species of neopterygians are eight relict species comprising gars and the bowfin.\n\nNeopterygians are the second major occurrence in the evolution of ray-finned fishes and today include the majority of modern bony fish. They are distinguished from their earlier ancestors by major changes to the jaws, shape of the skull, and tail. They are divided into three divisions:\n\nList of species.\n\nThe bowfin genome contains an intact ParaHox gene cluster, similar to the bichir and to most other vertebrates. This is in contrast, however, with teleost fishes, which have a fragmented ParaHox cluster, probably because of a whole genome duplication event in their lineage. The presence of an intact ParaHox gene cluster suggests that bowfin ancestors separated from other fishes before the last common ancestor of all teleosts appeared. Bowfin are thus possibly a better model to study vertebrate genome organization than common teleost model organisms such as zebrafish.\n\nBowfin are stalking, ambush predators that customarily move into the shallows at night to prey on fish, and aquatic invertebrates such as crawfish, mollusks, and aquatic insects. Young bowfin feed mostly on small crustaceans, while adults are mostly piscivorous, but also known to be opportunistic. Bowfin are remarkably agile, can move quickly through the water, and they have a voracious appetite. Their undulating dorsal fin propels them silently through the water while stalking their prey. The attack is straightforward and swift with a movement that lasts approximately 0.075 seconds. There were also some studies regarding the capacity of the bowfin to survive without food. In 1916, A female bowfin was starved for twenty months. It was the longest period that any vertebrate had been without food, as far the writer was aware during the observation. Some independent studies focus on the bowfin's ability to used organic material as a source of food and studied the structure of the gill raker. They concluded that it did not benefit from the organic material in the water because the gill rakers were short with blunt processes and a short space between them. Even bacteria could enter and exit through the gill easily. Its structure alone indicated that the \"Amia\" doesn't use microorganism as a source of food.\n\nFossil deposits indicate amiiforms included freshwater and marine species that were once widely distributed in North America, South America, Eurasia and Africa. Today, bowfin (\"Amia calva\") are the only remaining species in the order Amiiformes; they are demersal freshwater piscivores, and their range is restricted to freshwater environments in North America, including much of the eastern United States and adjacent southern Canada from the St. Lawrence River and Lake Champlain drainage of southern Ontario and Quebec westward around the Great Lakes in southern Ontario into Minnesota. Historically, their distribution in North America included the drainage basins of the Mississippi River from Quebec to northern Minnesota, the St. Lawrence-Great Lakes, including Georgian Bay, Lake Nipissing and Simcoe, Ontario, south to the Gulf of Mexico; Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plain from the Susquehanna River drainage in southeastern Pennsylvania to the Colorado River in Texas.\n\nResearch from the late 1800s to the 1980s suggests a trend of intentional stockings of non-indigenous fishes into ponds, lakes and rivers in the United States. At that time, little was known about environmental impacts, or long-term effects of new species establishment and spread as a result of \"fish rescue and transfer\" efforts, or the importance of nongame fishes to the ecological balance of aquatic ecosystems. Introductions of bowfin to areas they were considered a non-indigenous species included various lakes, rivers and drainages in Connecticut, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin. Many of the introductions were intentional stockings by various resource management; however, there is no way to positively determine distribution resulting from flood transfers, or other inadvertent migrations. Bowfin are typically piscivorous, but as an introduced species are capable of being voracious predators that pose a threat to native fishes and their prey.\n\nBowfin prefer vegetated sloughs, lowland rivers and lakes, swamps, backwater areas, and are occasionally found in brackish water. They are well camouflaged, and not easy to spot in slow water with abundant vegetation. They often seek shelter under roots, and submerged logs. Oxygen-poor environments can be tolerated because of their ability to breathe air.\n\nBowfin spawn in the spring or early summer, typically between April and June, more commonly at night in abundantly vegetated, clear shallow water in weed beds over sand bars, and also under stumps, logs, and bushes. Optimum temperatures for nesting and spawning range between . The males construct circular nests in fibrous root mats, clearing away leaves and stems. Depending on the density of surrounding vegetation there may be a tunnel-like entrance at one side. The diameter of the nests commonly range between , at a water depth of .\n\nDuring spawning season, the fins and underside of male bowfin often change in color to a bright lime green. The courtship/spawning sequence lasts one to three hours, and can repeat up to five times. Courtship begins when a female approaches the nest. The ritual consists of intermittent nose bites, nudges, and chasing behavior by the male until the female becomes receptive, at which time the pair lie side by side in the nest. She deposits her eggs while he shakes his fins in a vibratory movement, and releases his milt for fertilization to occur. A male often has eggs from more than one female in his nest, and a single female often spawns in several nests.\n\nFemales vacate the nest after spawning, leaving the male behind to protect the eggs during the eight to ten days of incubation. A nest may contain 2,000 to 5,000 eggs, possibly more. Fecundity is usually related to size of the fish, so it isn't unusual for the roe of a large gravid female to contain over 55,000 eggs. Bowfin eggs are adhesive, and will attach to aquatic vegetation, roots, gravel, and sand. After hatching, larval bowfin do not swim actively in search of food. During the seven to nine days required for yolk-sac absorption, they attach to vegetation by means of an adhesive organ on their snout, and remain protected by the parent male bowfin. Bowfin aggressively protect their spawn from the first day of incubation to a month or so after the eggs have hatched. When the fry are able to swim and forage on their own, they will form a school and leave the nest accompanied by the parent male bowfin who slowly circles them to prevent separation.\n\nBowfin reach sexually maturity at two to three years of age. They can live ten to twelve years in the wild, and 30 years in captivity. Females are longer-lived than males.\n\nA common parasite of bowfin is the anchor worm (\"Lernaea\"). These small crustaceans infest the skin and bases of fins, with consequences ranging from slowed growth to death. The mollusk \"Megalonaias gigantea\" lays eggs in the bowfin gills, that are then externally fertilized by sperm passing in the water flow. The small glochidia larvae then hatch and develop in the gill tubes.\n\nBowfin with liver cancer and with fatal leukemia have been reported.\n\nAs a sport fish, bowfin are not considered desirable to many anglers. They were once considered a nuisance fish by anglers and early biologists who believed the bowfin's predatory nature was harmful to sport fish populations. As a result, efforts were taken to reduce their numbers. Research has since proven otherwise, and that knowledge together with a better understanding of maintaining overall balance of ecosystems, regulations were introduced to help protect and maintain viable populations of bowfin. Bowfin are strong fighters, a prized trait in game fish. However, they do have a jaw full of sharp teeth which requires careful handling. The current tackle record is \n\nBowfin were once considered to have little commercial value because of its poor-tasting meat which has been referred to as \"soft, bland-tasting and of poor texture\". However, it is considered quite palatable if cleaned properly and smoked, or prepared fried, blackened, used in courtbouillion, or in fishballs or fishcakes. Over the years, global efforts have imposed strict regulations on the international trade of caviar, particularly on the harvest of sturgeons from the Caspian Sea where the highly prized caviar from the beluga sturgeon originates. The bans imposed on Caspian sturgeons have created lucrative markets for affordable substitutes in the United States including paddlefish, bowfin, and various species of sturgeon. In Louisiana, bowfin are harvested in the wild, and cultured commercially in hatcheries for their meat and roe. The roe is processed into caviar, and sold as \"Cajun caviar\", or marketed under the trade name \"Choupiquet Royale\".\n\nIn some areas of the United States where aquatic environments have tested positive for elevated levels of toxins, such as mercury, arsenic, chromium, and copper, there are posted signs with warnings about the consumption of fish caught in those areas. Concentration of mercury biomagnifies as it passes up the food chain from organisms on lower trophic levels to apex predators. It bioaccumulates in the tissues of larger, long-lived predatory fishes. When compared to smaller, short-lived fishes, bowfin tend to concentrate mercury at higher levels thereby making them less safe for human consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26700042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26700042", "title": "Brainstem death", "text": "Brainstem death\n\nBrainstem death is a clinical syndrome defined by the absence of reflexes with pathways through the brainstem—the \"stalk\" of the brain, which connects the spinal cord to the mid-brain, cerebellum and cerebral hemispheres—in a deeply comatose, ventilator-dependent patient.\nIdentification of this state carries a very grave prognosis for survival; cessation of heartbeat often occurs within a few days although it may continue for weeks if intensive support is maintained.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the formal diagnosis of brainstem death by the procedure laid down in the official Code of Practice permits the diagnosis and certification of death on the premise that a person is dead when consciousness and the ability to breathe are permanently lost, regardless of continuing life in the body and parts of the brain, and that death of the brainstem alone is sufficient to produce this state.\n\nThis concept of brainstem death is also accepted as grounds for pronouncing death for legal purposes in India and Trinidad & Tobago. Elsewhere in the world the concept upon which the certification of death on neurological grounds is based is that of permanent cessation of all function in all parts of the brain—whole brain death—with which the British concept should not be confused. The United States' President's Council on Bioethics made it clear, for example, in its White Paper of December 2008, that the British concept and clinical criteria are not considered sufficient for the diagnosis of death in the United States of America.\n\nThe United Kingdom (UK) criteria were first published by the Conference of Medical Royal Colleges (with advice from the Transplant Advisory Panel) in 1976, as prognostic guidelines. They were drafted in response to a perceived need for guidance in the management of deeply comatose patients with severe brain damage who were being kept alive by mechanical ventilators but showing no signs of recovery. The Conference sought \"to establish diagnostic criteria of such rigour that on their fulfilment the mechanical ventilator can be switched off, in the secure knowledge that there is no possible chance of recovery\". The published criteria—negative responses to bedside tests of some reflexes with pathways through the brainstem and a specified challenge to the brainstem respiratory centre, with caveats about exclusion of endocrine influences, metabolic factors and drug effects—were held to be \"sufficient to distinguish between those patients who retain the functional capacity to have a chance of even partial recovery and those where no such possibility exists\". Recognition of that state required the withdrawal of fruitless further artificial support so that death might be allowed to occur, thus \"sparing relatives from the further emotional trauma of sterile hope\".\n\nIn 1979, the Conference of Medical Royal Colleges promulgated its conclusion that identification of the state defined by those same criteria—then thought sufficient for a diagnosis of brain death—\"means that the patient is dead\" Death certification on those criteria has continued in the United Kingdom (where there is no statutory legal definition of death) since that time, particularly for organ transplantation purposes, although the conceptual basis for that use has changed.\n\nIn 1995, after a review by a Working Group of the Royal College of Physicians of London, the Conference of Medical Royal Colleges formally adopted the \"more correct\" term for the syndrome, \"brainstem death\"—championed by Pallis in a set of 1982 articles in the \"British Medical Journal\"—and advanced a new definition of human death as the basis for equating this syndrome with the death of the person. The suggested new definition of death was the \"irreversible loss of the capacity for consciousness, combined with irreversible loss of the capacity to breathe\". It was stated that the irreversible cessation of brainstem function will produce this state and \"therefore brainstem death is equivalent to the death of the individual\".\n\nIn the UK, the formal rules for the diagnosis of brainstem death have undergone only minor modifications since they were first published in 1976. The most recent revision of the UK's Department of Health Code of Practice governing use of that procedure for the diagnosis of death reaffirms the preconditions for its consideration. These are:\n\n\nWith these pre-conditions satisfied, the definitive criteria are:\n\n\nTwo doctors, of specified status and experience, are required to act together to diagnose death on these criteria and the tests must be repeated after \"a short period of time ... to allow return of the patient's arterial blood gases and baseline parameters to the pre-test state\". These criteria for the diagnosis of death are not applicable to infants below the age of two months.\n\nWith due regard for the cause of the coma, and the rapidity of its onset, testing for the purpose of diagnosing death on brainstem death grounds may be delayed beyond the stage where brainstem reflexes may be absent only temporarily – because the cerebral blood flow is inadequate to support synaptic function although there is still sufficient blood flow to keep brain cells alive and capable of recovery. There has recently been renewed interest in the possibility of neuronal protection during this phase by use of moderate hypothermia and by correction of the neuroendocrine abnormalities commonly seen in this early stage.\n\nPublished studies of patients meeting the criteria for brainstem death or whole brain death – the American standard which includes brainstem death diagnosed by similar means – record that even if ventilation is continued after diagnosis, the heart stops beating within only a few hours or days. However, there have been some very long-term survivals and it is noteworthy that expert management can maintain the bodily functions of pregnant brain dead women for long enough to bring them to term.\n\nThe diagnostic criteria were originally published for the purpose of identifying a clinical state associated with a fatal prognosis (see above). The change of use, in the UK, to criteria for the diagnosis of death itself was protested from the first. The initial basis for the change of use was the claim that satisfaction of the criteria sufficed for the diagnosis of the death of the brain as a whole, despite the persistence of demonstrable activity in parts of the brain. In 1995, that claim was abandoned and the diagnosis of death (acceptable for legal purposes in the UK in the context of organ procurement for transplantation) by the specified testing of brainstem functions was based on a new definition of death, viz. the permanent loss of the capacity for consciousness and spontaneous breathing. There are doubts that this concept is generally understood and accepted and that the specified testing is stringent enough to determine that state. It is, however, associated with substantial risk of exacerbating the brain damage and even causing the death of the apparently dying patient so tested (see \"the apnoea test\" above). This raises ethical problems which seem not to have been addressed.\nIt has been argued that sound scientific support is lacking for the claim that the specified purely bedside tests have the power to diagnose true and total death of the brainstem, the necessary condition for the assumption of permanent loss of the intrinsically untestable consciousness-arousal function of those elements of the reticular formation which lie within the brainstem (there are elements also within the higher brain). Knowledge of this arousal system is based upon the findings from animal experiments as illuminated by pathological studies in humans. The current neurological consensus is that the arousal of consciousness depends upon reticular components which reside in the midbrain, diencephalon and pons. It is said that the midbrain reticular formation may be viewed as a driving centre for the higher structures, loss of which produces a state in which the cortex appears, on the basis of electroencephalographic (EEG) studies, to be awaiting the command or ability to function. The role of diencephalic (higher brain) involvement is stated to be uncertain and we are reminded that the arousal system is best regarded as a physiological rather than a precise anatomical entity. There should, perhaps, also be a caveat about possible arousal mechanisms involving the first and second cranial nerves (serving sight and smell) which are not tested when diagnosing brainstem death but which were described in cats in 1935 and 1938. In humans, light flashes have been observed to disturb the sleep-like EEG activity persisting after the loss of all brainstem reflexes and of spontaneous respiration.\n\nThere is also concern about the permanence of consciousness loss, based on studies in cats, dogs and monkeys which recovered consciousness days or weeks after being rendered comatose by brainstem ablation and on human studies of brainstem stroke syndrome raising thoughts about the \"plasticity\" of the nervous system. Other theories of consciousness place more stress on the thalamocortical system. Perhaps the most objective statement to be made is that consciousness is not currently understood. That being so, proper caution must be exercised in accepting a diagnosis of its permanent loss before all cerebral blood flow has permanently ceased.\n\nThe ability to breathe spontaneously depends upon functioning elements in the medulla – the 'respiratory centre'. In the UK, establishing a neurological diagnosis of death involves challenging this centre with the strong stimulus offered by an unusually high concentration of carbon dioxide in the arterial blood, but it is not challenged by the more powerful drive stimulus provided by anoxia – although the effect of that ultimate stimulus is sometimes seen after final disconnection of the ventilator in the form of agonal gasps.\n\nNo testing of testable brain stem functions such as oesophageal and cardiovascular regulation is specified in the UK Code of Practice for the diagnosis of death on neurological grounds. There is published evidence strongly suggestive of the persistence of brainstem blood pressure control in organ donors.\n\nA small minority of medical practitioners working in the UK have argued that neither requirement of the UK Health Department's Code of Practice basis for the equation of brainstem death with death is satisfied by its current diagnostic protocol and that in terms of its ability to diagnose de facto brainstem death it falls far short.\n\n"}
{"id": "2886190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886190", "title": "Charlotte Bonaparte", "text": "Charlotte Bonaparte\n\nCharlotte Napoléone Bonaparte (31 October 1802 – 2 March 1839) was the daughter of Joseph Bonaparte, the older brother of Emperor Napoleon I, and Julie Clary. Her mother was the sister of Désirée Clary, Napoleon's first love. Charlotte married her first cousin Napoleon Louis, the second son of Louis Bonaparte and Hortense de Beauharnais. She studied engraving and lithography in Paris with the artist Louis Léopold Robert, who is reputed to have fallen in love with her.\n\nAfter her father was deposed in 1813 he moved to America and purchased \"Point Breeze\", an estate on the Delaware River near Bordentown, New Jersey. His palatial house was filled with paintings and sculpture by such luminaries as Jacques-Louis David, Antonio Canova, Peter Paul Rubens, and Titian (Tiziano Vecelli). The surrounding park of included landscaped gardens. Joseph Bonaparte played host to many of the national’s wealthiest and most cultivated citizens, and his art collection played a crucial role in transmitting high European taste to America.\n\nCharlotte, known as the Countess de Survilliers, lived with her father in New Jersey from December 1821 to August 1824. While there she sketched numerous landscapes including Passaic Falls, her father's \"Point Breeze\" estate, the town of Lebanon, New Jersey, and others, some of which were engraved for the book \"Picturesque American Scenes\" by Joubert. Extant landscape drawings by her include Passaic Falls, a view near Tuckerton, New Jersey, and Schooley's Mountain. She also painted portraits (Cora Monges, 1822; Emilie Lacoste, 1823) and exhibited her work at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.\n\nCharlotte, her sister Zénaide (1801–1854), and their mother were painted by the French artist François Gérard, while their mother was Queen of Spain. Another French artist, the well-known Jacques-Louis David, painted a portrait of the two sisters; it shows them reading a letter from Philadelphia sent by their father.\n\nCharlotte reportedly died in childbirth, aged 36.\nHer tomb is in the Basilica of Santa Croce, Florence, Italy, and it says (paraphrased): Born Oct. 31, 1802, died 1839.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3415656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3415656", "title": "Cortical reaction", "text": "Cortical reaction\n\nThe cortical reaction is a process initiated during fertilization by the release of cortical granules from the egg, which prevents polyspermy, the fusion of multiple sperm with one egg. In contrast to the fast block of polyspermy which immediately but temporarily blocks additional sperm from fertilizing the egg, the cortical reaction gradually establishes a permanent barrier to sperm entry and functions as the main part of the slow block of polyspermy in many animals.\n\nTo create this barrier cortical granules, specialized secretory vesicles located within the egg's cortex (the region directly below the plasma membrane), are fused with the egg's plasma membrane, causing the contents of the cortical granules to be released outside the cell where they modify an existing extracellular matrix to make it impenetrable to sperm entry. The cortical granules contain proteases that clip perivitelline tether proteins, peroxidases that harden the vitelline envelope, and glycosaminoglycans that attract water into the perivitelline space, causing it to expand and form the hyaline layer. The trigger for the cortical granules to exocytose is the release of calcium ions from cortical smooth endoplasmic reticulum in response to sperm binding to the egg.\n\nIn most animals, the extracellular matrix present around the egg is the vitelline envelope which becomes the fertilization membrane following the cortical reaction. In mammals, however, the extracellular matrix modified by the cortical reaction is the zona pellucida. This modification of the zona pellucida is known as the zona reaction. Although highly conserved across the animal kingdom, the cortical reaction shows great diversity between species. While much has been learned about the identity and function of the contents of the cortical granules in the highly accessible sea urchin, little is known about the contents of cortical granules in mammals.\n\nThe cortical reaction within the egg is analogous to the acrosomal reaction within the sperm, where the acrosome, a specialized secretory vesicle that is homologous to cortical granules, is fused with the plasma membrane of the sperm cell to release its contents which degrade the egg's tough coating and allow the sperm to bind to and fuse with the egg.\n\nIn the well-studied sea urchin model system, the granule contents modify a protein coat on the outside of the plasma membrane (the vitelline layer) so that it is released from the membrane. The released cortical granule proteins exert a colloid osmotic pressure causing water to enter the space between the plasma membrane and the vitelline layer, and the vitelline layer expands away from the egg surface. This is easily visible through a microscope and is known as \"elevation of the fertilization envelope\". Some of the former granule contents adhere to the fertilization envelope, and it is extensively modified and cross-linked. As the fertilization envelope elevates, non-fertilizing sperm are lifted away from the egg plasma membrane, and as they are not able to pass through the fertilization envelope, they are prevented from entering the egg. Therefore, the cortical reaction prevents polyspermic fertilization, a lethal event. Another cortical granule component, polysaccharide-rich hyalin, remains adherent to the outer surface of the plasma membrane, and becomes part of the hyaline layer.\n\nAlthough various mammals have been studied, mice represent the best studied animal models for understanding the cortical reaction in mammals. In mammals the cortical reaction leads to a modification of the zona pellucida that blocks polyspermy; enzymes released by cortical granules digest sperm receptor glycoproteins ZP2 and ZP3 so that they can no longer bind spermatozoon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52223923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52223923", "title": "Dafydd ap Maredudd ap Tudur", "text": "Dafydd ap Maredudd ap Tudur\n\nDafydd ap Maredudd ap Tudur was a Welsh poet in the later 15th century. \n\nTudur's works include religious poems, and eulogies of Dafydd ab Owain (abbot of Strata Marcella), Dafydd Deuddwr, Hywel Colunwy, and Watcyn ap Tomas ap Rhoser. \n"}
{"id": "3502851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3502851", "title": "Day-care sex-abuse hysteria", "text": "Day-care sex-abuse hysteria\n\nDay-care sex-abuse hysteria was a moral panic that occurred primarily in the 1980s and early 1990s featuring charges against day-care providers of several forms of child abuse, including Satanic ritual abuse. A prominent case in Kern County, California first brought the issue of day-care sexual abuse to the forefront of the public awareness, and the issue figured prominently in news coverage for almost a decade. The Kern County case was followed by cases elsewhere in the United States as well as Canada, New Zealand, Brazil, and various European countries.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, more and more mothers were working outside of the home, resulting in the opening of large numbers of day-care centers. Anxiety and guilt over leaving young children with strangers may have created a climate of fear and readiness to believe false accusations.\n\nChildren are vulnerable to outside influences that lead to fabrication of testimony. Their testimony can be influenced in a variety of ways.\nMaggie Bruck in her article published by the American Psychological Association wrote that children incorporate aspects of the interviewer's questions into their answers in an attempt to tell the interviewer what the child believes is being sought. Studies also show that when adults ask children questions that do not make sense (such as \"is milk bigger than water?\" or \"is red heavier than yellow?\"), most children will offer an answer, believing that there is an answer to be given, rather than understand the absurdity of the question. Furthermore, repeated questioning of children causes them to change their answers. This is because the children perceive the repeated questioning as a sign that they did not give the \"correct\" answer previously. Children are also especially susceptible to leading and suggestive questions. Some studies have shown that only a small percentage of children produce fictitious reports of sexual abuse on their own. Other studies have shown that children understate occurrences of abuse.\n\nInterviewer bias also plays a role in shaping child testimony. When an interviewer has a preconceived notion as to the truth of the matter being investigated, the questioning is conducted in a manner to extract statements that support these beliefs. As a result, evidence that could disprove the belief is never sought by the interviewer. Additionally, positive reinforcement by the interviewer can taint child testimony. Often such reinforcement is given to encourage a spirit of cooperation by the child, but the impartial tone can quickly disappear as the interviewer nods, smiles, or offers verbal encouragement to \"helpful\" statements. Some studies show that when interviewers make reassuring statements to child witnesses, the children are more likely to fabricate stories of past events that never occurred.\n\nPeer pressure also influences children to fabricate stories. Studies show that when a child witness is told that his or her friends have already testified that certain events occurred, the child witness was more likely to create a matching story. The status of the interviewer can also influence a child's testimony, because the more authority an interviewer has such as a police officer, the more likely a child is to comply with that person's agenda.\n\nFinally, while there are supporters of the use of anatomically correct dolls in questioning victims of sexual abuse/molestation, there are also critics of this practice. These critics say that because of the novelty of the dolls, children will act out sexually explicit acts with the dolls even if the child has not been sexually abused. Another criticism is that because the studies that compare the differences between how abused and non-abused children play with these dolls are conflicting (some studies suggest that sexually abused children play with anatomically correct dolls in a more sexually explicit manner than non-abused children, while other studies suggest that there is no correlation), it is impossible to interpret what is meant by how a child plays with these dolls.\n\n\nThe McMartin Preschool case was the first daycare abuse case to receive major media attention in the United States. The case centered upon the McMartin Preschool in Manhattan Beach, California, where seven teachers were accused of kidnapping children, flying them in a plane to another location, and forcing them to engage in group sex as well as forcing them to watch animals be tortured and killed. The case also involved accusations that children had been forced to participate in bizarre religious rituals, and been used to make child pornography. The case began with a single accusation, made by the mother - who was later found to be a paranoid schizophrenic - of one of the students, but grew rapidly when investigators informed parents of the accusation and began interviewing other students. The case made headlines nationwide in 1984, and seven teachers were arrested and charged that year. When a new district attorney took over the case in 1986, however, his office re-examined the evidence and dropped charges against all but two of the original defendants. Their trials became one of the longest and most expensive criminal trials in the history of the United States, but in 1990 all of these charges were also dropped. Both jurors at the trial and academic researchers later criticized the interviewing techniques that investigators had used in their investigations of the school, alleging that interviewers had \"coaxed\" children into making unfounded accusations, repeatedly asking children the same questions and offering various incentives until the children reported having been abused. Most scholars now agree that the accusations these interviews elicited from children were false. Sociologist Mary de Young and historian Philip Jenkins have both cited the McMartin case as the prototype for a wave of similar accusations and investigations between 1983 and 1995, which constituted a moral panic.\n\nIn 1985, Frank Fuster – the owner of the Country Walk Babysitting Service in the Country Walk suburb of Miami, Florida – was found guilty of 14 counts of abuse. He was sentenced to prison with a minimum length of 165 years. Fuster's alleged victims testified that he led them in Satanic rituals and terrorized them by forcing them to watch him mutilate birds, a lesson to children who might reveal the abuse. Fuster had been previously convicted for manslaughter and for molesting a 9-year-old child. Testimony from children in the case was elicited by University of Miami child psychologists Laurie and Joseph Braga, who resorted to coercive questioning of the alleged victims when the desired answers were not forthcoming. Fuster's wife recanted her court testimony in an interview with Frontline, saying that she had been kept naked in solitary confinement and subjected to other forms of physical and psychological duress until she had agreed to testify against her husband.\n\nThe case was prosecuted by Dade County state's attorney Janet Reno. As of June 2017, Fuster continues to serve a 165-year prison sentence. The incident also inspired a book and made-for-TV movie called \"Unspeakable Acts\" (1990).\n\nIn April 1984, Gerald Amirault was arrested and charged with abusing children in his care at the Fells Acres Day Care Center in Malden, Massachusetts. After Gerald changed the pants on a young boy who had wet himself, the boy's mother, uncle and therapist questioned him over a period of months, until the boy alleged that Gerald had been sexually abusing him. The boy's mother then called a child abuse hotline to report that her son had been sexually abused, and Gerald was arrested shortly thereafter. In the 1986 trial, Gerald was convicted of assaulting and raping nine children and sentenced to thirty to forty years in state prison. In a separate trial, his mother, Violet Amirault, and sister, Cheryl Amirault LeFave, were also convicted of similar charges and sentenced to jail for eight to 20 years. According to Richard Beck, the case developed \"in the usual way\" compared to other moral panic cases, with more and more children leveling increasingly bizarre allegations against the accused during the course of the investigation. The allegations included reports of \"bad clowns,\" robots, \"magic rooms,\" and tortured animals. According to Beck, one of the prosecutors responsible for the case commented that coaxing allegations out of the children had been like \"getting blood from a stone.\"\n\nIn 1995, \"The Wall Street Journal\" journalist Dorothy Rabinowitz questioned testimony from the children that had been elicited with dubious interrogation techniques, writing, \"no sane person reading the transcripts of these interrogations can doubt the wholesale fabrications of evidence on which this case was built.\" Rabinowitz was a finalist for the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for her newspaper columns on the issue, and made the Amirault's case a centerpiece of her book \"No Crueler Tyrannies: Accusation, False Witness, and Other Terrors of Our Times.\" Violet and Cheryl were granted a new trial in 1997, on the basis that they had been denied the right to face their accusers and had been inadequately represented at trial, but Violet died and a judge reduced Cheryl's sentence to time served before the new trial could proceed. In 2001, the Massachusetts Board of Pardons recommended that Gerald's sentence be commuted, citing \"substantial doubt\" about his guilt. He was granted parole in 2003. Writing about the case at the time of Gerald's release, \"The Economist\" suggested in an editorial that while the Amiraults had long maintained their innocence and had attracted a \"string of prominent supporters\" who believed that they had been wrongly convicted, \"many others continue to believe that Mr. Amirault committed the crimes.\"\n\nOn October 4, 1984, a drug addicted couple acting as police informants called their contact in the Pittsfield, Massachusetts, police department to accuse Bernard Baran of molesting their son. The child had been attending the government operated Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) where Baran, an openly gay 19-year-old, worked as a teacher's aide. The accusers had previously complained to the board of directors that they \"didn't want no homo\" around their son.\n\nWithin days of the first allegation, ECDC hosted a puppet show and delivered letters to parents notifying them about a child at the day care with gonorrhea. Five other allegations emerged. Baran was tried in the Berkshire County courthouse 105 days after the first allegation, a swiftness noted in the later court rulings. The courtroom was closed during the children's testimony, which Baran claimed violated his right to a public trial. Baran's defense attorney was later ruled ineffective. Baran was convicted on January 30, 1985, on three counts of rape of a child and five counts of indecent assault and battery. He was sentenced to three life terms plus 8 to 20 years on each charge. He maintained his innocence throughout his case. In 1999 a new legal team took up his case. In 2004 hearings began in a motion for a new trial. In 2006, Baran was granted a new trial and released on $50,000 bail. In May 2009, the Massachusetts Appeals Court affirmed the new trial ruling, setting aside the 1985 convictions. The Berkshire County District Attorney's office dismissed the original charges and Baran's record was cleared.\n\nProsecutor Mario Merola brought prosecutions leading to the conviction of five men, including Nathaniel Grady, a 47-year-old Methodist minister, of sexually abusing children in day care centers throughout the Bronx. Grady spent ten years in prison before being released in 1996.\n\nThree employees of another Bronx day-care center were arrested in August 1984 on the charges of abusing at least ten children in their care. Federal and city investigators then questioned dozens of children at the day care. They used 'dolls, gentle words and a quiet approach.' More children reported being sexually abused, raising the total to 30. Three more day care centers also were investigated for sexual abuse. On August 11, 1984, federal funds were cut off to the Head Start preschool program at the Praca Day Care Center and three employees had been arrested. In June 1985, the day care center was reopened with new sponsorship.\n\nIn January 1986, Albert Algerin, employed at the Praca Day Care center, was sentenced to 50 years for rape and sexual abuse. In May, Praca employee Jesus Torres, a former teacher's aide was sentenced to 40 years. Praca employee Franklin Beauchamp had his case overturned in New York Court of Appeals in May 1989.\n\nAll five convictions were ultimately overturned.\n\nIn Maplewood, New Jersey, in April 1985, Margaret Kelly Michaels was indicted for 299 offenses in connection with the sexual assault of 33 children. Michaels denied the charges. \"The prosecution produced expert witnesses who said that almost all the children displayed symptoms of sexual abuse.\" Prosecution witnesses testified that the children \"had regressed into such behavior as bed-wetting and defecating in their clothing. The witnesses said the children became afraid to be left alone or to stay in the dark.\" Some of the other teachers testified against her. \"The defense argued that Michaels did not have the time or opportunity to go to a location where all the activities could have taken place without someone seeing her.\"\n\nMichaels was sentenced to 47 years in the \"sex case.\" Michaels \"told the judge that she was confident her conviction would be overturned on appeal.\" After five years in prison her appeal was successful and sentence was overturned by a New Jersey appeals court. The New Jersey Supreme Court upheld the appellate court's decision and declared \"the interviews of the children were highly improper and utilized coercive and unduly suggestive methods.\" A three judge panel ruled she had been denied a fair trial, because \"the prosecution of the case had relied on testimony that should have been excluded because it improperly used an expert's theory, called the child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome, to establish guilt.\" The original judge was also criticized \"for the way in which he allowed the children to give televised testimony from his chambers.\"\n\nJames Toward and Brenda Williams were accused of kidnapping and sexually abusing six boys who attended Glendale Montessori in Stuart, Florida, as preschoolers in 1986 and 1987. Investigators claimed to know up to 60 victims, mostly from the ages 2 to 5.\n\nIn 1988, Williams, an office manager, was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in prison. She pleaded no contest to sex and attempted kidnapping charges involving five boys and she was released from prison in 1993 after serving five years. In 1989, Toward, owner of Glendale Montessori School, pleaded guilty to child sexual abuse charges and received a 27-year sentence. While technically maintaining his innocence, he allowed a guilty plea to be entered against him, convicting him of molesting or kidnapping six boys. Toward was placed in involuntary commitment due to the Jimmy Ryce Act. Although he maintained his innocence, Toward said he plea-bargained to avoid an almost certain life sentence.\n\nIn Edenton, North Carolina, in January 1989, a parent accused Bob Kelly of sexual abuse. Over the next several months, investigations and therapy led to allegations against dozens of other adults in the town, culminating in the arrest of seven adults.\n\nDespite the severity of some of the alleged acts, parents noticed no abnormal behaviour in their children until after initial accusations were made. Bob Kelly's trial lasted eight months and on April 22, 1992, he was convicted of 99 out of 100 counts against him. In 1995, the North Carolina Court of Appeals granted new trials to two defendants, including Kelly. Charges were ultimately dropped for both.\n\nThe remainder of the defendants received a variety of sentences.\n\nDale Akiki, a developmentally-delayed man with Noonan syndrome, was accused of satanic ritual abuse in 1991. Akiki and his wife were volunteer babysitters at Faith Chapel in Spring Valley, California. The accusations started when a young girl told her mother that \"[Akiki] showed me his penis,\" after which the mother contacted the police. After interviews, nine other children accused Akiki of killing animals, such as a giraffe and an elephant, and drinking their blood in front of the children. He was found not guilty of the 35 counts of child abuse and kidnapping in his 1993 trial.\n\nIn 1994, the San Diego County Grand Jury reviewed the Akiki cases and concluded there was no reason to pursue the theory of ritual abuse. On August 25, 1994, he filed a suit against the County of San Diego, Faith Chapel Church, and many others, which was settled for $2 million. Akiki's public defenders received the Public Defender of the Year award for their work defending Akiki.\n\nFrances Keller and her husband, Dan Keller, both of Austin, Texas, were convicted of sexually abusing a 3-year-old girl in their care, and they spent 21 years in prison until their release in 2013.\n\nThe case began on August 15, 1991, when a 3-year-old girl told her mother that Dan Keller had hurt her. The mother and daughter were on their way to a scheduled appointment with the girl’s therapist, who drew out details that included Keller defecating on her head and sexually assaulting her with a pen. During the time leading up to the trial, two other children from the day care offered similar accusations. According to the children, the couple served blood-laced Kool-Aid and forced them to have videotaped sex with adults and other children. The Kellers, they said, sometimes wore white robes and lit candles before hurting them. The children also accused the Kellers of forcing them to watch or participate in the killing and dismemberment of cats, dogs and a crying baby. Bodies were unearthed in cemeteries and new holes dug to hide freshly killed animals and, once, an adult passer-by was shot and dismembered with a chain saw. The children recalled several plane trips, including one to Mexico, where they were sexually abused by soldiers before returning to Austin in time to meet their parents at the day care.\n\nThe only physical evidence of abuse in the case was presented by Michael Mouw, an emergency room physician at Brackenridge Hospital who examined the 3-year-old girl in 1991 on the night she first accused Dan Keller of abuse. Mouw testified at the Kellers’ trial that he found two tears in the girl’s hymen consistent with sexual abuse and determined that the injuries were less than 24 hours old. Three years after the trial, while attending a medical seminar, Mouw said a slide presentation on “normal” pediatric hymens included a photo that was identical to what he had observed in the girl.\n\nOn November 26, 2013, the Travis County district attorney's office announced that Fran Keller, now 63, was being released on bond and her husband, Dan Keller, who was convicted at the same time, would be released within a week in a deal reached with lawyers. \"There is a reasonable likelihood that (the medical expert's) false testimony affected the judgment of the jury and violated Frances Keller's right to a fair trial,\" said the district attorney.\n\nOn June 20, 2017, the Travis County district attorney's office announced that the case against the Kellers had been dismissed, citing actual innocence. They were awarded $3.4 million in compensation from the state of Texas for the 21 years they spent in prison.\n\nIn Wenatchee, Washington, in 1994 and 1995, police and state social workers undertook what was then called the nation's most extensive child sex-abuse investigation. Forty-three adults were arrested on 29,726 charges of child sex abuse involving 60 children. Parents, Sunday school teachers and a pastor were charged, and many were convicted of abusing their own children or the children of others in the community. However, prosecutors were unable to provide any physical evidence to support the charges. The main witness was the 13-year-old foster daughter of police officer Robert Perez, who had investigated the cases. A jury found the city of Wenatchee and Douglas County, Washington, negligent in the 1994–1995 investigations. In 2001, $3 million was awarded to a couple who had been wrongly accused in the inquiry.\n\nPeter Ellis, a child-care worker at the Christchurch Civic Crèche in New Zealand, was found guilty on 16 counts of sexual abuse against children in 1992 and served seven years in jail. Parents of the alleged abuse victims were entitled to claim NZ$10,000 (equivalent to about US$11,000 in 2010) in compensation for each allegation from the Accident Compensation Corporation, regardless of whether the allegations were proved or not. Many victims' families made multiple allegations. Four female co-workers were also arrested on 15 charges of abuse, but were released after these charges were dropped. Together with six other co-workers who lost their jobs when the centre was closed, they were awarded $1 million in compensation by the Employment Court in 1995, although this sum was reduced on appeal. Peter Ellis has consistently denied any abuse, and the case is still considered controversial by many New Zealanders.\n\nIn 1992, a mother in the central Saskatchewan city of Martensville, alleged that a local woman who ran a babysitting service and day care center in her home had sexually abused her child. Police began an investigation, leading to a sharp increase in allegations. More than a dozen persons, including five police officers from two different forces, ultimately faced over 100 charges connected with running a Satanic cult called The Brotherhood of The Ram, which allegedly practiced ritualized sexual abuse of numerous children at a \"Devil Church\".\n\nThe son of the day care owner was tried and found guilty, then a Royal Canadian Mounted Police task force took over the investigation. It concluded the original investigation was motivated by \"emotional hysteria.\" In 2003, defendants sued for wrongful prosecution. In 2004, Richard and Kari Klassen received $100,000 each, out of the $1.5 million compensation package awarded for the malicious prosecution.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337523", "title": "Delphi method", "text": "Delphi method\n\nThe Delphi method ( ) is a structured communication technique or method, originally developed as a systematic, interactive forecasting method which relies on a panel of experts. The experts answer questionnaires in two or more rounds. After each round, a facilitator or change agent provides an anonymised summary of the experts' forecasts from the previous round as well as the reasons they provided for their judgments. Thus, experts are encouraged to revise their earlier answers in light of the replies of other members of their panel. It is believed that during this process the range of the answers will decrease and the group will converge towards the \"correct\" answer. Finally, the process is stopped after a predefined stop criterion (e.g., number of rounds, achievement of consensus, stability of results), and the mean or median scores of the final rounds determine the results.\n\nDelphi is based on the principle that forecasts (or decisions) from a structured group of individuals are more accurate than those from unstructured groups. The technique can also be adapted for use in face-to-face meetings, and is then called mini-Delphi or Estimate-Talk-Estimate (ETE). Delphi has been widely used for business forecasting and has certain advantages over another structured forecasting approach, prediction markets.\n\nThe name \"Delphi\" derives from the Oracle of Delphi, although the authors of the method were unhappy with the oracular connotation of the name, \"smacking a little of the occult\". The Delphi method is based on the assumption that group judgments are more valid than individual judgments.\n\nThe Delphi method was developed at the beginning of the Cold War to forecast the impact of technology on warfare. In 1944, General Henry H. Arnold ordered the creation of the report for the U.S. Army Air Corps on the future technological capabilities that might be used by the military.\n\nDifferent approaches were tried, but the shortcomings of traditional forecasting methods, such as theoretical approach, quantitative models or trend extrapolation, quickly became apparent in areas where precise scientific laws have not been established yet. To combat these shortcomings, the Delphi method was developed by Project RAND during the 1950-1960s (1959) by Olaf Helmer, Norman Dalkey, and Nicholas Rescher. It has been used ever since, together with various modifications and reformulations, such as the Imen-Delphi procedure.\n\nExperts were asked to give their opinion on the probability, frequency, and intensity of possible enemy attacks. Other experts could anonymously give feedback. This process was repeated several times until a consensus emerged.\n\nThe following key characteristics of the Delphi method help the participants to focus on the issues at hand and separate Delphi from other methodologies: in this technique a panel of experts is drawn from both inside and outside the organisation. The panel consist of experts having knowledge of the area requiring decision making. Each expert is asked to make anonymous predictions.\n\nUsually all participants remain anonymous. Their identity is not revealed, even after the completion of the final report. This prevents the authority, personality, or reputation of some participants from dominating others in the process. Arguably, it also frees participants (to some extent) from their personal biases, minimizes the \"bandwagon effect\" or \"halo effect\", allows free expression of opinions, encourages open critique, and facilitates admission of errors when revising earlier judgments.\n\nThe initial contributions from the experts are collected in the form of answers to questionnaires and their comments to these answers. The panel director controls the interactions among the participants by processing the information and filtering out irrelevant content. This avoids the negative effects of face-to-face panel discussions and solves the usual problems of group dynamics.\n\nThe Delphi Method allows participants to comment on the responses of others, the progress of the panel as a whole, and to revise their own forecasts and opinions in real time.\n\nThe person coordinating the Delphi method is usually known as a \"facilitator\" or Leader, and facilitates the responses of their \"panel of experts\", who are selected for a reason, usually that they hold knowledge on an opinion or view. The facilitator sends out questionnaires, surveys etc. and if the panel of experts accept, they follow instructions and present their views. Responses are collected and analyzed, then common and conflicting viewpoints are identified. If consensus is not reached, the process continues through thesis and antithesis, to gradually work towards synthesis, and building consensus.\n\nFirst applications of the Delphi method were in the field of science and technology forecasting. The objective of the method was to combine expert opinions on likelihood and expected development time, of the particular technology, in a single indicator. One of the first such reports, prepared in 1964 by Gordon and Helmer, assessed the direction of long-term trends in science and technology development, covering such topics as scientific breakthroughs, population control, automation, space progress, war prevention and weapon systems. Other forecasts of technology were dealing with vehicle-highway systems, industrial robots, intelligent internet, broadband connections, and technology in education.\n\nLater the Delphi method was applied in other places, especially those related to public policy issues, such as economic trends, health and education. It was also applied successfully and with high accuracy in business forecasting. For example, in one case reported by Basu and Schroeder (1977), the Delphi method predicted the sales of a new product during the first two years with inaccuracy of 3–4% compared with actual sales. Quantitative methods produced errors of 10–15%, and traditional unstructured forecast methods had errors of about 20%. (This is only one example; the overall accuracy of the technique is mixed.)\n\nThe Delphi method has also been used as a tool to implement multi-stakeholder approaches for participative policy-making in developing countries. The governments of Latin America and the Caribbean have successfully used the Delphi method as an open-ended public-private sector approach to identify the most urgent challenges for their regional ICT-for-development eLAC Action Plans. As a result, governments have widely acknowledged the value of collective intelligence from civil society, academic and private sector participants of the Delphi, especially in a field of rapid change, such as technology policies.\n\nUse in Patent Participation Identification\nIn the early 1980s Jackie Awerman of Jackie Awerman Associates, Inc.designed a modified Delphi method for identifying the roles of various contributors to the creation of a patent-eligible product. (Epsilon Corporation, Chemical Vapor Deposition Reactor) The results were then used by patent attorneys to determine bonus distribution percentage to the general satisfaction of all team members.\n\nFrom the 1970s, the use of the Delphi technique in public policy-making introduces a number of methodological innovations. In particular:\n\nFurther innovations come from the use of computer-based (and later web-based) Delphi conferences. According to Turoff and Hiltz, in computer-based Delphis: \n\nAccording to Bolognini, web-based Delphis offer two further possibilities, relevant in the context of interactive policy-making and e-democracy. These are: \nOne successful example of a (partially) web-based policy Delphi is the five-round Delphi exercise (with 1,454 contributions) for the creation of the eLAC Action Plans in Latin America. It is believed to be the most extensive online participatory policy-making foresight exercise in the history of intergovernmental processes in the developing world at this time. In addition to the specific policy guidance provided, the authors list the following lessons learned include \"(1) the potential of Policy Delphi methods to introduce transparency and accountability into public decision-making, especially in developing countries; (2) the utility of foresight exercises to foster multi-agency networking in the development community; (3) the usefulness of embedding foresight exercises into established mechanisms of representative democracy and international multilateralism, such as the United Nations; (4) the potential of online tools to facilitate participation in resource-scarce developing countries; and (5) the resource-efficiency stemming from the scale of international foresight exercises, and therefore its adequacy for resource-scarce regions.\"\n\nA number of Delphi forecasts are conducted using web sites that allow the process to be conducted in real-time. For instance, the TechCast Project uses a panel of 100 experts worldwide to forecast breakthroughs in all fields of science and technology. Another example is the Horizon Project, where educational futurists collaborate online using the Delphi method to come up with the technological advancements to look out for in education for the next few years.\n\nTraditionally the Delphi method has aimed at a consensus of the most probable future by iteration. Other versions, such as the Policy Delphi, is instead a decision support method aiming at structuring and discussing the diverse views of the preferred future. \nIn Europe, more recent web-based experiments have used the Delphi method as a communication technique for interactive decision-making and e-democracy.\nThe Argument Delphi, was developed by Osmo Kuusi, focuses on ongoing discussion and finding relevant arguments rather than focusing on the output. The Disaggregative Policy Delphi, developed by Petri Tapio, uses cluster analysis as a systematic tool to construct various scenarios of the future in the latest Delphi round. The respondent's view on the probable and the preferable future are dealt with as separate cases. The computerization of Argument Delphi is relatively difficult because of several problems like argument resolution, argument aggregation and argument evaluation. The computerization of Argument Delphi, was developed by Sadi Evren Seker, proposes solutions to such problems.\n\nOverall the track record of the Delphi method is mixed. There have been many cases when the method produced poor results. Still, some authors attribute this to poor application of the method and not to the weaknesses of the method itself. It must also be realized that in areas such as science and technology forecasting, the degree of uncertainty is so great that exact and always correct predictions are impossible, so a high degree of error is to be expected.\n\nAnother particular weakness of the Delphi method is that future developments are not always predicted correctly by consensus of experts. The issue of ignorance is important. If panelists are misinformed about a topic, the use of Delphi may only add confidence to their ignorance.\n\nOne of the initial problems of the method was its inability to make complex forecasts with multiple factors. Potential future outcomes were usually considered as if they had no effect on each other. Later on, several extensions to the Delphi method were developed to address this problem, such as cross impact analysis, that takes into consideration the possibility that the occurrence of one event may change probabilities of other events covered in the survey. Still the Delphi method can be used most successfully in forecasting single scalar indicators.\n\nDespite these shortcomings, today the Delphi method is a widely accepted forecasting tool and has been used successfully for thousands of studies in areas varying from technology forecasting to drug abuse.\n\nDelphi has characteristics similar to prediction markets as both are structured approaches that aggregate diverse opinions from groups. Yet, there are differences that may be decisive for their relative applicability for different problems.\n\nSome advantages of prediction markets derive from the possibility to provide incentives for participation.\n\nDelphi seems to have these advantages over prediction markets:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19720804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19720804", "title": "Deon Dreyer", "text": "Deon Dreyer\n\nDeon Dreyer (7 August 1974 – 17 December 1994) was a South African recreational scuba diver who died in Bushman's Hole in South Africa. Cave diver David Shaw died more than 10 years later whilst attempting to retrieve Dreyer's cadaver.\n\nDreyer's father, Theo (who owns a business that sells and services two-way radios) and mother, Marie, raised him in the town of Vereeniging, about 35 miles south of Johannesburg. Dreyer designed \"obscenely loud car stereos\", had a passion for diving, and loved adventure, (e.g., hunting, racing a souped-up car, and motorcycling). \n\n\"Outside Magazine\"s Tim Zimmerman reports:Deon had logged about 200 dives when he was invited to join some South Africa Cave Diving Association divers at Bushman's Hole over the 1994 Christmas break. They planned a descent to 492 feet and asked Deon to dive support. He was thrilled. Two weeks before the expedition, Deon's grandfather passed away. Sitting around a barbecue with his family one night, Deon spoke with boyish hubris. \"He said if he had a choice of how to go out in life, he'd like to go out diving,\" recalls his father, Theo, 51.\n\nDreyer drowned on December 17, 1994, aged 20, during a practice dive while helping a team, assembled by Nuno Gomes, set up conditions for a deep, technical dive scheduled to take place later that week. According to first-hand accounts from those diving with him, Dreyer was lost on ascent around from the surface. They conjectured he had probably lost consciousness either because of oxygen toxicity or hypercapnia induced by the high work-rate of breathing at depth.\n\nTwo weeks after Dreyer's death, Theo hired a small, remotely operated sub used by the De Beers mining company. It found Dreyer's dive helmet on the cenote floor, but there was no sign of his body.\n\nDreyer's parents erected a plaque on a rock wall above the Bushman's Hole entry pool, in memory of their son. In Phillip Finch's book \"Diving Into Darkness: A True Story of Death and Survival\", it was suggested that one of the reasons Dreyer's death created such an impression on the cave diving community was because of the plaque. The bodies of most other divers who die, even whilst cave diving, are recovered. However, for many years it was assumed Dreyer's body would never be recovered from the cave because it was simply too deep, but the plaque was a continual reminder to cave divers that his body lay within.\n\nTen years later, October 2004, renowned cave diver David Shaw discovered Dreyer's body in the cave at a depth of . On 8 January 2005, Shaw tried to recover the body but died in the attempt. Shaw's close friend and support diver, Don Shirley, also nearly died and was left with permanent damage that has impaired his balance. On 12 January 2005, while others were recovering part of the technical equipment, they discovered the bodies of both Dreyer and Shaw had floated up close to the surface. Both bodies were recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "39973023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39973023", "title": "Edward Almer", "text": "Edward Almer\n\nEdward Almer or Aylmer (by 1516-1574 or later), of Denbigh and Gresford, Denbighshire, was a Welsh politician.\n\nHe was a younger son of John Almer of Almer, Denbighshire, a sergeant-at-arms at the court of Henry VIII.\n\nHe was a Justice of the Peace for Denbighshire from 1543 to his death and was appointed High Sheriff of Denbighshire for 1552-53, 1557–58 and 1570-71. He was elected a Member (MP) of the Parliament of England for Denbighshire in 1555.\n\nHe transferred the family seat from Almer to Pant Iocyn (now Pant-yr-Ochain), a house he rebuilt between Gresford and Wrexham using materials salvaged from his previous home.\n\nHe married Dorothy, the daughter of Sir George Calverley of Lea, Cheshire and widow of Robert Bostock of Churton, Cheshire. They had 5 sons and 3 daughters. He was succeeded by his eldest son, William Almer, also MP for Denbighshire.\n"}
{"id": "243786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243786", "title": "Elsa the lioness", "text": "Elsa the lioness\n\nElsa the lioness ( 28 January 195624 January 1961) was a female lion raised along with her sisters \"Big One\" and \"Lustica\" by game warden George Adamson and his wife Joy Adamson after they were orphaned at only a few weeks old. Though her two sisters eventually went to the Netherlands' Rotterdam Zoo, Elsa was trained by the Adamsons to survive on her own, and was eventually released into the wild.\n\nHer story is told in several books by the Adamsons, as well as the 1966 motion picture \"Born Free\".\n\nElsa and her sisters were orphaned on 1 February 1956 after George Adamson was forced to kill their mother when she charged him, in defence of her three cubs. George only later realised why the lioness had acted so aggressively towards him. George and his wife Joy then adopted the lioness’s four-day-old cubs.\n\nWhile Elsa lived in many ways like a domesticated pet when she was small, Joy Adamson, whom Elsa trusted the most, considered her relationship with Elsa to be that of equals. Indeed, after sending the other two to a zoo, Joy was fiercely determined to give Elsa the education she needed to hunt and live in the wild. Her efforts paid off, earning Elsa worldwide fame at the time, when her early life’s story was published in the book \"Born Free\". When Elsa was three years old, she brought three cubs of her own to show to the Adamsons, whom the Adamsons named “Jespah” (male), “Gop (male), and “Little Elsa” (female). The life of Elsa and her cubs is covered in the book \"Living Free\", published not long afterwards.\n\nElsa's died prematurely of a form of babesiosis, a tick-borne blood disease similar to malaria which often infects the cat family. Elsa’s grave is in the Meru National Park. She died as local sentiment had begun to turn against Elsa and her cubs, forcing the Adamsons to consider moving them. Elsa’s death made her cubs much more averse to human contact, even with the Adamsons themselves, complicating what would be their eventual capture and release in the Serengeti. The fate of the cubs upon their release was uncertain, though George Adamson was able to find Little Elsa, healthy and in the company of two other unrelated lions, during 19 months of subsequent searching. This was the last time that the Adamsons saw any of Elsa's cubs.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7210930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7210930", "title": "Embodied imagination", "text": "Embodied imagination\n\nEmbodied imagination is a therapeutic and creative form of working with dreams and memories pioneered by Dutch Jungian psychoanalyst Robert Bosnak and based on principles first developed by Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung, especially in his work on alchemy, and on the work of American archetypal psychologist James Hillman, who focused on soul as a simultaneous multiplicity of autonomous states.\n\nThe technique of embodied imagination takes dreaming as the paradigm for all work with images. While dreaming, everyone experiences dreams as embodied events in time and space; that is, the dreamer is convinced that he or she is experiencing a real event in a real environment. Bosnak describes how a dream \"instantaneously presents a total world, so real that you are convinced you are awake. You don't just think so, you \"know\" it in the same way you now know you are awake reading this book.\" So from the perspective of dreaming, the image is a place. Based on this notion, the dreamer can re-enter the landscape of the dream and flash back into its images to more fully and deeply explore and experience them. The dreamer explores the images of the dream while in a hypnagogic state, a state of consciousness between waking and sleeping. While in this state, the dreamer is asked a series of questions that help him or her to re-experience the dream by describing details of its landscape and image. \n\nOnce fully immersed in the images that the dream environment presents, the dreamer is then also invited to feel and identify the feelings and sensations manifested in the body from a variety of dream perspectives. Perspectives explored are both that of the dream ego as well any \"others\" that appear in the dream. These \"others\" may be, for example, another person, an animal, or a physical object. Approaching dream figures in this way is consistent with archetypal psychologist James Hillman's prescription for therapeutic work in regard to the phenomena of psychic multiplicity. Drawing upon Carl Jung's realization that \"the ego complex is not the only complex in the psyche,\" Hillman described the psyche to be not a singular unified whole defined by the ego point of view, but rather a self-organizing multiplicity of autonomous selves. In the technique of embodied imagination, for each of these \"selves\" or \"states\" representing various perspectives, the dreamer then feels, identifies, and locates the feelings and sensations in his or her body. At the conclusion of the dreamwork session, the dreamer simultaneously holds in conscious awareness these differentiated and complex states of embodied feeling and sensation. The act of holding these multiple disparate states at the same time creates a psychical tension from which a completely new image or feeling state spontaneously emerges from the dreamer's psyche. This new image or state presents a completely new and previously unknown awareness to the dreamer, one through which the dreamer often feels changed, transformed, or greatly expanded in the ability to embody and feel intensely. \n\nAfter working with a dream in this way, one dreamer, a woman whose name is Ariel, later reflected, \"That dreamwork warded off my seasonal depression which always starts in the autumn. I could already feel it creeping up at the time of the dream. And with the dreamwork it just stopped and retreated and never came back. I didn't have it all winter.\" Ariel's transformation is typical of those who practice this method of working with dreams. Using the technique of embodied imagination in dreamwork, the body becomes the theater for a vivid complexity of states, which leads along \"alchemical\" lines to profound psychical transformation.\n\nWorking with both dreams and memories, embodied imagination is practiced individually and in groups in psychotherapy, medicine, theater, art and creative research. The technique has been used as a rehearsal method by the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford-upon-Avon and the Bell Shakespeare Company in Sydney. Both its simple rules and emphasis on group participation augment working on the Internet, where this technique is practiced in small dream groups using on-line voice chat forums such as Paltalk. A simplified form of Embodied Imagination for creativity is called DreamPlay\nOn November 3, 2006, the International Society for Embodied Imagination was founded at a conference in Guangzhou, China.\n\n\n•White, Judy and Jill Fischer. Embodied Imagination® in Barrett, Diedre and McNamara, Patrick, editors. Encyclopedia of Sleep and Dreams [2 volumes]: The Evolution, Function, Nature, and Mysteries of Slumber, Greenwood, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "9235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9235", "title": "Ethical egoism", "text": "Ethical egoism\n\nEthical egoism is the normative ethical position that moral agents ought to do what is in their own self-interest. It differs from psychological egoism, which claims that people can only act in their self-interest. Ethical egoism also differs from rational egoism, which holds that it is rational to act in one's self-interest.\nEthical egoism holds, therefore, that actions whose consequences will benefit the doer can be considered ethical in this sense.\n\nEthical egoism contrasts with ethical altruism, which holds that moral agents have an obligation to help others. Egoism and altruism both contrast with ethical utilitarianism, which holds that a moral agent should treat one's self (also known as the subject) with no higher regard than one has for others (as egoism does, by elevating self-interests and \"the self\" to a status not granted to others). But it also holds that one should not (as altruism does) sacrifice one's own interests to help others' interests, so long as one's own interests (i.e. one's own desires or well-being) are substantially equivalent to the others' interests and well-being. Egoism, utilitarianism, and altruism are all forms of consequentialism, but egoism and altruism contrast with utilitarianism, in that egoism and altruism are both agent-focused forms of consequentialism (i.e. subject-focused or subjective). However, utilitarianism is held to be agent-neutral (i.e. objective and impartial): it does not treat the subject's (i.e. the self's, i.e. the moral \"agent's\") own interests as being more or less important than the interests, desires, or well-being of others.\n\nEthical egoism does not, however, require moral agents to harm the interests and well-being of others when making moral deliberation; e.g. what is in an agent's self-interest may be incidentally detrimental, beneficial, or neutral in its effect on others. Individualism allows for others' interest and well-being to be disregarded or not, as long as what is chosen is efficacious in satisfying the self-interest of the agent. Nor does ethical egoism necessarily entail that, in pursuing self-interest, one ought always to do what one wants to do; e.g. in the long term, the fulfillment of short-term desires may prove detrimental to the self. Fleeting pleasure, then, takes a back seat to protracted eudaimonia. In the words of James Rachels, \"Ethical egoism ... endorses selfishness, but it doesn't endorse foolishness.\"\n\nEthical egoism is often used as the philosophical basis for support of right-libertarianism and individualist anarchism. These are political positions based partly on a belief that individuals should not coercively prevent others from exercising freedom of action.\n\nEthical egoism can be broadly divided into three categories: individual, personal, and universal. An \"individual ethical egoist\" would hold that all people should do whatever benefits \"my\" (\"the individual\")\" \"self-interest; a \"personal ethical egoist\" would hold that he or she should act in \"his or her\" self-interest, but would make no claims about what anyone else ought to do; a \"universal ethical egoist\" would argue that everyone should act in ways that are in their self-interest.\n\nEthical egoism was introduced by the philosopher Henry Sidgwick in his book \"The Methods of Ethics\", written in 1874. Sidgwick compared egoism to the philosophy of utilitarianism, writing that whereas utilitarianism sought to maximize overall pleasure, egoism focused only on maximizing individual pleasure.\n\nPhilosophers before Sidgwick have also retroactively been identified as ethical egoists. One ancient example is the philosophy of Yang Zhu (4th century BC), Yangism, who views \"wei wo\", or \"everything for myself\", as the only virtue necessary for self-cultivation. Ancient Greek philosophers like Plato, Aristotle and the Stoics were exponents of virtue ethics, and \"did not accept the formal principle that whatever the good is, we should seek only our own good, or prefer it to the good of others.\" However, the beliefs of the Cyrenaics have been referred to as a \"form of egoistic hedonism\", and while some refer to Epicurus' hedonism as a form of virtue ethics, others argue his ethics are more properly described as ethical egoism.\n\nPhilosopher James Rachels, in an essay that takes as its title the theory's name, outlines the three arguments most commonly touted in its favor:\n\n\nIt has been argued that extreme ethical egoism is self-defeating. Faced with a situation of limited resources, egoists would consume as much of the resource as they could, making the overall situation worse for everybody. Egoists may respond that if the situation becomes worse for everybody, that would include the egoist, so it is not, in fact, in his or her rational self-interest to take things to such extremes. However, the (unregulated) tragedy of the commons and the (one off) prisoner's dilemma are cases in which, on the one hand, it is rational for an individual to seek to take as much as possible \"even though\" that makes things worse for everybody, and on the other hand, those cases are not self-refuting since that behaviour remains rational \"even though\" it is ultimately self-defeating, i.e. self-defeating does not imply self-refuting. A tragedy of the commons, however, assumes some degree of public land. That is, a commons forbidding homesteading requires regulation. Thus, an argument against the tragedy of the commons is fundamentally an argument for private property rights and the system that recognizes both property rights and rational self-interest—capitalism. More generally, an increasing respect for individual rights uniquely allows for increasing wealth creation and increasing usable resources despite a fixed amount of raw materials (e.g. the West pre-1776 versus post-1776, East versus West Germany, Hong Kong versus mainland China, North versus South Korea, etc.).\n\nIt is not clear how to apply a private ownership model to many examples of \"Commons\", however. Examples include large fisheries, the atmosphere and the ocean.\n\nThe term \"ethical egoism\" has been applied retroactively to philosophers such as Bernard de Mandeville and to many other materialists of his generation, although none of them declared themselves to be egoists. Note that materialism does not necessarily imply egoism, as indicated by Karl Marx, and the many other materialists who espoused forms of collectivism. It has been argued that ethical egoism can lend itself to individualist anarchism such as that of Benjamin Tucker, or the combined anarcho-communism and egoism of Emma Goldman, both of whom were proponents of many egoist ideas put forward by Max Stirner. In this context, egoism is another way of describing the sense that the common good should be enjoyed by all. However, most notable anarchists in history have been less radical, retaining altruism and a sense of the importance of the individual that is appreciable but does not go as far as egoism. Recent trends to greater appreciation of egoism within anarchism tend to come from less classical directions such as post-left anarchy or Situationism (e.g. Raoul Vaneigem). Egoism has also been referenced by anarcho-capitalists, such as Murray Rothbard.\n\nPhilosopher Max Stirner, in his book \"The Ego and Its Own\", was the first philosopher to call himself an egoist, though his writing makes clear that he desired not a new idea of morality (ethical egoism), but rather a rejection of morality (amoralism), as a nonexistent and limiting \"spook\"; for this, Stirner has been described as the first individualist anarchist. Other philosophers, such as Thomas Hobbes and David Gauthier, have argued that the conflicts which arise when people each pursue their own ends can be resolved for the best of each individual only if they all voluntarily forgo some of their aims—that is, one's self-interest is often best pursued by allowing others to pursue their self-interest as well so that liberty is equal among individuals. Sacrificing one's short-term self-interest to maximize one's long-term self-interest is one form of \"rational self-interest\" which is the idea behind most philosophers' advocacy of ethical egoism. Egoists have also argued that one's actual interests are not immediately obvious, and that the pursuit of self-interest involves more than merely the acquisition of some good, but the \"maximizing\" of one's chances of survival and/or happiness.\n\nPhilosopher Friedrich Nietzsche suggested that egoistic or \"life-affirming\" behavior stimulates jealousy or \"ressentiment\" in others, and that this is the psychological motive for the altruism in Christianity. Sociologist Helmut Schoeck similarly considered envy the motive of collective efforts by society to reduce the disproportionate gains of successful individuals through moral or legal constraints, with altruism being primary among these. In addition, Nietzsche (in \"Beyond Good and Evil\") and Alasdair MacIntyre (in \"After Virtue\") have pointed out that the ancient Greeks did not associate morality with altruism in the way that post-Christian Western civilization has done.\nAristotle's view is that we have duties to ourselves as well as to other people (e.g. friends) and to the \"polis\" as a whole. The same is true for Thomas Aquinas, Christian Wolff and Immanuel Kant, who claim that there are duties to ourselves as Aristotle did, although it has been argued that, for Aristotle, the duty to one's self is primary.\n\nAyn Rand argued that there is a positive harmony of interests among free, rational humans, such that no moral agent can rationally coerce another person consistently with his own long-term self-interest. Rand argued that other people are an enormous value to an individual's well-being (through education, trade and affection), but also that this value could be fully realized only under conditions of political and economic freedom. According to Rand, voluntary trade alone can assure that human interaction is \"mutually\" beneficial. Rand's student, Leonard Peikoff has argued that the identification of one's interests itself is impossible absent the use of principles, and that self-interest cannot be consistently pursued absent a consistent adherence to certain ethical principles. Recently, Rand's position has also been defended by such writers as Tara Smith, Tibor Machan, Allan Gotthelf, David Kelley, Douglas Rasmussen, Nathaniel Branden, Harry Binswanger, Andrew Bernstein, and Craig Biddle.\n\nPhilosopher David L. Norton identified himself an \"ethical individualist\", and, like Rand, saw a harmony between an individual's fidelity to his own self-actualization, or \"personal destiny\", and the achievement of society's well being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "861503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861503", "title": "Fossil collecting", "text": "Fossil collecting\n\nFossil collecting (some times, in a non-scientific sense, fossil hunting) is the collection of fossils for scientific study, hobby, or profit. Fossil collecting, as practiced by amateurs, is the predecessor of modern paleontology and many still collect fossils and study fossils as amateurs. Professionals and amateurs alike collect fossils for their scientific value. A commercial trade in fossils has also long existed, with some of this being practised illegally.\n\nFossils are generally found in sedimentary rock with differentiated strata representing a succession of deposited material. The occurrence of fossil bearing material depends on environmental factors before and after the time of preservation. After death, the first preserving factor is a rapid burial in water bodies or terrestrial sediment which would help in preserving the specimen. These rocks types are usually termed clastic rock, and are further subdivided into fine, medium and coarse grained material. While fossils can be found in all grain types, more detailed specimens are found in the fine grained material. A second type of burial is the non-clastic rock, form where the rock is made up of the precipitation of compacted fossil material, types of rock include limestone and coal. The third fossil bearing material is the evaporates, which precipitate out of concentrated dissolved salts to form nodular deposits, examples include rock salt and phosphate concentrations. The evaporates are usually associated with gastropod, algae, vertebrate, and trace fossils. Fossils are not to be found in areas of igneous rock (except in some beds between lava flows). In rocks which have undergone metamorphism, fossils are generally so distorted that they are difficult to recognize or have been destroyed completely.\n\nAfter burial various factors are at work to endanger the current fossil's preserved state. Chemical alteration would change the mineral composition of the fossil, but generally not its appearance, lithification would distort its appearance, the fossil itself may be fully or partially dissolved leaving only a fossil mold.\n\nAreas where sedimentary rocks are being eroded include exposed mountainous areas, river banks and beds, wave washed sea cliffs, and engineering features like quarries and road cuts. Coal mining operations often yield excellent fossil plants, but the best ones are to be found not in the coal itself but in the associated sedimentary rock deposits called coal measures. \n\nWave-washed sea cliffs and foreshore exposures are often good places to search for fossils, but always be aware of the state of the tides in the area. Never take chances by climbing high cliffs of crumbling rock or clay (many have died attempting it). Dried up natural lake beds and caves in the form of pitfall traps frequently also have high concentrations of fossils (e.g., Cuddie Springs and Naracoorte Caves in Australia).\n\nGenerally in appearance, a fossil will be either a different colour to the surrounding rock, because of the different mineral content, will have a defining shape and texture or a combination of both. A fossil can also be extracted from it's geological environment, having similar characteristics in colour naturally embed from the sedimentary formation (surrounding rock) it was found within.\n\nThe techniques used to collect fossils vary depending on the sediment or rock in which the fossils are to be found. For collecting in rock a geological hammer, a variety of cold chisels and a mallet are used to split and break rocks to reveal fossils. Since the rock is deposited in layers, these layers may be split apart to reveal fossils. For soft sediments and unconsolidated deposits, such as sands, silts, and clays, a spade, flat-bladed trowel, and stiff brushes are used. Sieves in a variety of mesh sizes are used to separate fossils from sands and gravels. Sieving is a rougher technique for collecting fossils and can destroy fragile ones. Some times, water is run through a sieve to help remove silt and sand. This technique is called wet sieving\n\nFossils tend to be very fragile and are generally not extracted entirely from the surrounding rock (the matrix) in the field. Cloth, cotton, small boxes and aluminum foil are frequently used to protect fossils being transported. Occasionally, large fragile specimens may need to be protected and supported using a jacket of plaster before their removal from the rock. If a fossil is to be left in situ, a cast may be produced, using plaster of paris or latex. Whilst not preserving every detail, such a cast is inexpensive, easier to transport, causes less damage to the environment, and leaves the fossil in place for others to enjoy. Fossilized tracks are frequently documented with casts. Subtle fossils which are preserved solely as impressions in sandy layers, such as the Ediacaran fossils, are also usually documented by means of a cast, which shows detail more clearly than the rock itself.\n\nSafety is emphasized while fossil collecting and hard hats, safety goggles, steel toe boots, and protective gloves are used.\n\nSometimes, for smaller fossils, a stiff brush may simply be used to dust off and clean the fossil. For larger fossils, a chisel can be used to remove large bits of dirt, however, you run the risk of damaging the fossil.\nRunning water can cause some types of fossils to either dislodge from the rock, or even crumble and break apart, for they are very fragile. Dental tools are sometimes used to remove small amounts of rock from the fossil.\n\nA knowledge of the precise location a fossil is essential if the fossil is to have any scientific value. Details of the parent rock strata, the location of the find, and other fossil material associated with the find help scientists to place the fossil in context, in terms of the time, location and situation in which the organism lived. Data logs, photographs, and sketchs may accompany detailed field notes to assist in the locating of a fossiliferous outcrop. Individual fossils are ideally cataloged with a locality number and a unique specimen number. This allows a collection to be easily searched and specimens located. Catologing of collections is almost universal in large institutions like museums.\n\nTo collect fossils, there are various legal realities that must be observed. Permission should be sought before collection begins on private land. Hammering the rocks in national parks and other areas of natural beauty is often discouraged and in most cases is illegal.\n\nThe first expressly worded fossil-collecting code was published from the museum-home of pioneering geologist Hugh Miller at Cromarty, on the Highland east coast of Scotland, 11 April 2008. It was introduced by Michael Russell, Minister for Environment, Scotland, as part of celebrations honouring the bicentennial of the founding of the Geological Society of London. The code supplements an existing draft drawn up by English Nature.\n\nThe code advises fossil collectors to seek permission from landowners, to collect responsibly, record details, seek advice on finding an unusual fossil and label the specimens and care for them. Its principles establish a framework of advice on best practices in the collection, identification, conservation and storage of fossil specimens.\n\nThe non-binding code of ethics for this field was drawn up by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) following many months of consultation with fossil collectors, landowners, palaeontological researchers, and staff of Scotland's museums.\n\nFossil trading is the practice of buying and selling fossils. This is illegal when it comes to stolen fossils, and some important scientific specimens are sold to collectors, rather than given or obtained by museums and institutes of study. Much focus has been put on the illegal fossil dealing in China, where many specimens have been stolen. The trade is lucrative, and many celebrities collect fossils.\n\nThe Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, an international association of professional and amateur vertebrate paleontologists, believes that scientifically important fossils—especially but not exclusively those found on public lands—should be held in perpetuity in the public trust, preferably in a museum or research institution, where they can benefit the scientific community as a whole as well as future generations. In the United States, Paleontological Resources Preservation Act. S. 546 and H. R. 2416 were introduced in the US Congress with SVP's full support.\n\nMany commercial fossil collectors and dealers believe that such policies are a breach of their rights. The argument has also been put forth that there are too few professional paleontologists to collect and preserve fossils currently exposed to the elements, and that it is therefore essential that private citizens be allowed to collect them for the sake of their preservation. Eric Scott, the Curator of Paleontology for the San Bernardino County Museum, argues that 1) private citizens and amateur (not for profit) collectors can and do participate frequently in the permitted recovery and preservation of significant vertebrate fossils, and 2) preservation of significant fossils does not require or mandate \"sale\" of those fossils.\n\nAccording to the ethics by-law of SVP, \"The barter, sale, or purchase of scientifically significant vertebrate fossils is not condoned, unless it brings them into or keeps them within a public trust.\"\n\nMany include fossil collectors. Lapidary clubs also include fossil collectors. In addition, paleontological societies and fossil clubs exist. There is some overlap between fossil collecting, mineral collecting, and amateur geology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34337352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34337352", "title": "Frank Levick", "text": "Frank Levick\n\nFrank Levick (1882 – 1 February 1908) was an English footballer who played for Sheffield United, mostly at inside left, during the 1907–08 season. He had previously played for Rotherham Town and Tinsley.\n\nBorn in Eckington, Levick made his debut for Sheffield United on 21 September 1907 against Manchester United at Bank Street. He broke his collar bone while playing against Newcastle United on New Year's Day 1908. While recovering from the injury, he contracted a cold which developed into pneumonia. He died of heart failure as a result of pneumonia, on 1 February 1908 in Sheffield.\n"}
{"id": "12774945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12774945", "title": "Gerry Peñalosa", "text": "Gerry Peñalosa\n\nGeronimo \"Gerry\" Peñalosa (born August 7, 1972) is a Filipino former professional boxer who competed from 1989 to 2010. He is a two-weight world champion, having held the WBC and lineal super flyweight titles from 1997 to 1998, and the WBO bantamweight title from 2007 to 2009. Originally from San Carlos City, Peñalosa currently resides in Manila. He was trained mainly by Freddie Roach, and went on to become a boxing trainer himself after retirement. Peñalosa's older brother, Dodie Boy Peñalosa, is also a former boxer and world champion.\n\nPeñalosa turned professional in 1989. He made his debut against Fidel Jubay on May 20, 1989, and won the bout by knockout.\n\nHe captured the WBC and lineal super flyweight title with a decision win over Hiroshi Kawashima on 27 February 1997 and has defended the title three times since then.\n\nHe later lost it on points to In-Joo Cho on 29 August 1998. Two years later, he had a rematch with Cho to regain the title but again lost by controversial unanimous decision.\n\nOn 24 September 2001, he challenged Masamori Tokuyama who then succeeded Cho in being the WBC super flyweight champion. However, he lost by another controversial split decision. The two fought again on 20 December 2002 but the result was the same, in Tokuyama's favor. Peñalosa temporarily retired that year.\n\nPeñalosa returned to boxing two years later. He defeated Bangsaen Sithpraprom for the World Boxing Foundation (WBFo) super flyweight title on 7 November 2004.\n\nOn 17 March 2007, he took on Daniel Ponce de León who then held the WBO super bantamweight title. In the fight, Peñalosa displayed his intelligence, excellent boxing skills and defensive abilities. De León who is a knockout artist could not land a clear punch on Penalosa. Penalosa answered with stinging counters that frustrated De Leon. Although De Leon was the busier boxer, most of his punches landed in the air and on Penalosa's gloves. However, De Leon won via unanimous decision.\n\nOn August 11, 2007, the veteran Filipino boxer took on Jhonny González of Mexico for the WBO bantamweight title at the Arco Arena in Sacramento, California, California. Peñalosa went down in weight and dethroned the Mexican fighter at the 7th round.\n\nThe younger fighter appeared to be in control of the match in the early rounds, as he skillfully kept the much shorter Peñalosa away with crisp jabs. Peñalosa stayed patient and continued to walk forward even though he is getting hit by some of the Mexican's punches. In the seventh round, Peñalosa got an opportunity, when Gonzales launched a strong right that missed Peñalosa head. Gonzalez failed to pull his arm back quickly and at that short moment, leaving a hole for the veteran fighter, who then threw a precise and solid left hook to Gonzalez’ body. The defending champion fell on the canvas a few moments after receiving the counter-attack; the Mexican tried to get up and fight again but failed to do it remained down on the canvas. This was Peñalosa's second world title in 10 years.\n\nHe defended the title in Quezon City, Philippines by stopping former world title holder Ratanachai Sor Vorapin of Thailand in the eighth round on 6 April 2008.\n\nThis was the second time he fought Sor Vorapin in which Peñalosa prevailed on both encounters.\n\nOn February 21, 2009, Peñalosa took on German Meraz of Mexico at the Cebu Coliseum in Cebu City, Cebu, Philippines; the two fought in the main event of the \"Battle of the Bantamweights\" card. The WBO title was not at stake. The Filipino boxer won the fight by unanimous decision after 10 rounds.\n\nAfter the Manny Pacquiao-Marco Antonio Barrera rematch in Las Vegas, Peñalosa and Jorge Arce of Mexico nearly figured in a fistfight, according to a report by Philboxing.com. The two boxers crossed their way out of the Mandalay Bay Events Center. The boxing website said its sources revealed that it was Arce who challenged Peñalosa to a fight. Peñalosa was reportedly with his wife Goody and Japanese associate Kosuke Washio when the incident happened. Arce was reportedly irritated when one spectator told him upon seeing Penalosa that the Filipino boxer is more popular than him. The proud Mexican, the report said, apparently did not like the comments and immediately confronted the Filipino world champion. According to the report, Peñalosa was apparently irked by Arce's actuations and tried to follow the Mexican boxer but was prevailed upon by Goody.\n\nHe later fought on 25 April 2009, in Puerto Rico against Puerto Rican sensation Juan Manuel López for the WBO Super Bantamweight Championship. The showdown featured as a Champion versus Champion match because the two fighters were both holders of WBO World titles. Penalosa had the bantamweight title and Lopez had the super bantamweight belt.\n\nEarly in the fight, both pugilists exchanged combinations, with López gaining a slight advantage by targeting the head and body of Peñalosa. This pattern continued in the third and fourth rounds, while the challenger continued counterattacking despite receiving more damage. Between the fifth and sixth chapters, both pugilists exchanged combinations, with Peñalosa scoring his most solid punches. During the following two rounds, López managed to establish control of the offensive's tempo, but Peñalosa continued using his counterattack. Prior to the ninth chapter, Peñalosa's trainer, Freddie Roach, warned him that he had to win by knockout or the fight would be stopped. In the round, the pattern continued with few variations, once it was over Roach submitted the fight. With this technical knockout, López became the first boxer to defeat the veteran by knockout.\n\nAfter the fight, the Filipino boxer said: \"He (Lopez) was too big for me. I felt his punches. But I hope he wasn't lying after the fight when he said he felt my punches, too. I was the underdog but I gave it my best. I trained hard for that fight\". Then Penalosa talked about a possible retirement after one last fight, as he wants to hang up his gloves as a champion. Many people, including members of his family and his friend, Manny Pacquiao, wanted Peñalosa to quit boxing already, saying he has nothing more to prove in the sport.\n\nIn April, Penalosa was stripped of his bantamweight title for failing to defend it within one year.\n\nHowever, Peñalosa decided to fight for one more time. Many tough boxers were considered to be his possible next opponent, including Jorge Arce, Daniel Ponce de Leon, Eric Morel and Vic Darchinyan.\n\nOn 13 February 2010, Peñalosa faced Eric Morel (41-2) of Puerto Rico for the interim WBO bantamweight title at the Las Vegas Hilton in Las Vegas, Nevada. The veteran fighter trained at the Wild Card Gym in Los Angeles under the guidance of coach Freddie Roach, along with Filipino prospect Bernabe Concepcion and seven-division world champion Manny Pacquiao. The bout was part of the card named \"Pinoy Power 3\", in which four other Filipino boxers fought. Peñalosa eventually lost the bout by a controversial Split Decision.\n\nAt the opening round the Puerto Rican looked to stick and move while Peñalosa took on the role of the aggressor. In the early rounds Morel appeared a bit more active. Peñalosa received a bad low blow in the 2nd round and was given some time to recover. In the 6th round a clash of heads opened a cut over the Filipino's right eyes; a few moments later, another headbutt opened a severe laceration over Peñalosa's left eye. The injury bled profusely during the next rounds, but he was able to hurt the opponent with strong body punches and seemed to take control of the fight. With the bleeding clearly bothering him, the \"Fearless\" boxer continued to attack as Morel seemed to keep away from him. Peñalosa continued along this way through the championship rounds, while Morel looked to jab and retreat. During the last rounds, Peñalosa fought hard but apparently hadn't done enough to impress the judges. Two judges scored the fight 115-113 and 116-112 for Morel, while the third and final card scored the bout 113-115 for Peñalosa. FightFan.com had the bout scored 115-113 for Peñalosa. Some people even said that the Filipino boxer should have won over the Puerto Rican, including his trainer, Freddie Roach, and Manny Pacquiao.\n\nFollowing the fight against Morel, Peñalosa stated that he will fight for one last time against Yodsaenkeng Kietmangmee of Thailand on October 10, 2010. The Filipino pugilist also revealed that the proceeds of this match will be given to Z Gorres to help him with his medical expenses. The event, called \"Golpe Golpe na Zamboanga: The Last Hurrah\", was held at the Zamboanga City Coliseum. The former world champion won the bout by TKO in the 4th round.\n\nPeñalosa finished his 21-year career with a professional record of 55 wins, with 37 knockouts, 8 losses and 2 draws.\n\nAfter retiring as a fighter he became a boxing promoter with his nephew, Dave Peñalosa, among the boxers in his stable.\n\nOn April 21, 2008, Peñalosa won in the game show \"Wheel of Fortune\" held in the Philippines, defeating fellow boxers Rey Bautista and Alex John Banal. The prize he earned was worth P159,000 ($3,791).\n\nPeñalosa served as the trainer of IBF flyweight champion Nonito Donaire in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26943371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26943371", "title": "Giovanni Benfratello", "text": "Giovanni Benfratello\n\nGiovanni Benfratello (1888 – 9 February 1966) was an Italian fencer. He competed in the individual and team sabre events at the 1912 Summer Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "1793732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793732", "title": "Hong Kong 1956 riots", "text": "Hong Kong 1956 riots\n\nThe Hong Kong 1956 riots were the result of escalating provocations between pro-Nationalist and pro-Communist factions in Hong Kong during Double Ten Day, 10 October 1956.\n\nMost violence took place in the town of Tsuen Wan, five miles from central Kowloon. A mob stormed and ransacked a clinic and welfare centre, killing four people. Some foreigners became involved, including a Swiss national who lost his life while travelling in a taxi on Nathan Road.\n\nTo quell the rioting, Colonial Secretary Edgeworth B. David ordered extra manpower from the British Forces Hong Kong, including armoured troops of 7th Hussars, to reinforce the Hong Kong Police and disperse the rioters. In total, there were 59 deaths and approximately 500 injuries. Property damage was estimated at US$1,000,000.\n\nIn the subsequent trials four people were convicted of murder and given death penalties.\n\n"}
{"id": "5135982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5135982", "title": "Humanism", "text": "Humanism\n\nHumanism is a philosophical and ethical stance that emphasizes the value and agency of human beings, individually and collectively, and generally prefers critical thinking and evidence (rationalism and empiricism) over acceptance of dogma or superstition. The meaning of the term \"humanism\" has fluctuated according to the successive intellectual movements which have identified with it. The term was coined by theologian Friedrich Niethammer at the beginning of the 19th century to refer to a system of education based on the study of classical literature (\"classical humanism\"). Generally, however, humanism refers to a perspective that affirms some notion of human freedom and progress. It views humans as solely responsible for the promotion and development of individuals and emphasizes a concern for man in relation to the world.\n\nIn modern times, humanist movements are typically non-religious movements aligned with secularism, and today humanism typically refers to a nontheistic life stance centred on human agency and looking to science rather than revelation from a supernatural source to understand the world.\n\nThe word \"humanism\" is ultimately derived from the Latin concept \"humanitas\". It entered English in the nineteenth century. However, historians agree that the concept predates the label invented to describe it, encompassing the various meanings ascribed to \"humanitas\", which included both benevolence toward one's fellow humans and the values imparted by \"bonae litterae\" or humane learning (literally \"good letters\").\n\nIn the second century AD, a Latin grammarian, Aulus Gellius (c.125c.180), complained:\n\nThose who have spoken Latin and have used the language correctly do not give to the word \"humanitas\" the meaning which it is commonly thought to have, namely, what the Greeks call φιλανθρωπία (philanthropy), signifying a kind of friendly spirit and good-feeling towards all men without distinction; but they gave to \"humanitas\" the force of the Greek παιδεία (paideia); that is, what we call \"eruditionem institutionemque in bonas artes\", or \"education and training in the liberal arts\". Those who earnestly desire and seek after these are most highly humanized. For the desire to pursue of that kind of knowledge, and the training given by it, has been granted to humanity alone of all the animals, and for that reason it is termed \"humanitas\", or \"humanity\".\n\nGellius says that in his day \"humanitas\" is commonly used as a synonym for philanthropyor kindness and benevolence toward one's fellow human beings. Gellius maintains that this common usage is wrong, and that model writers of Latin, such as Cicero and others, used the word only to mean what we might call \"humane\" or \"polite\" learning, or the Greek equivalent Paideia. Yet in seeking to restrict the meaning of \"humanitas\" to literary education this way, Gellius was not advocating a retreat from political engagement into some ivory tower, though it might look like that to us. He himself was involved in public affairs. According to legal historian Richard Bauman, Gellius was a judge as well as a grammarian and was an active participant the great contemporary debate on harsh punishments that accompanied the legal reforms of Antoninus Pius (one these reforms, for example, was that a prisoner was not to be treated as guilty before being tried). \"By assigning pride of place to Paideia in his comment on the etymology of \"humanitas\", Gellius implies that the trained mind is best equipped to handle the problems troubling society.\"\n\nGellius's writings fell into obscurity during the Middle Ages, but during the Italian Renaissance, Gellius became a favorite author. Teachers and scholars of Greek and Latin grammar, rhetoric, philosophy, and poetry were called and called themselves \"humanists\". Modern scholars, however, point out that Cicero (10643BCE), who was most responsible for defining and popularizing the term \"humanitas\", in fact frequently used the word in both senses, as did his near contemporaries. For Cicero, a lawyer, what most distinguished humans from brutes was speech, which, allied to reason, could (and should) enable them to settle disputes and live together in concord and harmony under the rule of law. Thus \"humanitas\" included two meanings from the outset and these continue in the modern derivative, \"humanism\", which even today can refer to both humanitarian benevolence and to a method of study and debate involving an accepted group of authors and a careful and accurate use of language.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, and soon after, in Germany (by the Left Hegelians), \"humanism\" began to refer to an ethical philosophy centered on humankind, without attention to the transcendent or supernatural. The designation Religious Humanism refers to organized groups that sprang up during the late-nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. It is similar to Protestantism, although centered on human needs, interests, and abilities rather than the supernatural. In the Anglophone world, such modern, organized forms of humanism, which are rooted in the 18th-century Enlightenment, have to a considerable extent more or less detached themselves from the historic connection of humanism with classical learning and the liberal arts.\n\nThe first \"Humanist Manifesto\" was issued by a conference held at the University of Chicago in 1933. Signatories included the philosopher John Dewey, but the majority were ministers (chiefly Unitarian) and theologians. They identified humanism as an ideology that espouses reason, ethics, and social and economic justice, and they called for science to replace dogma and the supernatural as the basis of morality and decision-making.\n\nIn 1808 Bavarian educational commissioner Friedrich Immanuel Niethammer coined the term \"Humanismus\" to describe the new classical curriculum he planned to offer in German secondary schools, and by 1836 the word \"humanism\" had been absorbed into the English language in this sense. The coinage gained universal acceptance in 1856, when German historian and philologist Georg Voigt used \"humanism\" to describe Renaissance humanism, the movement that flourished in the Italian Renaissance to revive classical learning, a use which won wide acceptance among historians in many nations, especially Italy.\n\nBut in the mid-18th century, during the French Enlightenment, a more ideological use of the term had come into use. In 1765, the author of an anonymous article in a French Enlightenment periodical spoke of \"The general love of humanity ... a virtue hitherto quite nameless among us, and which we will venture to call 'humanism', for the time has come to create a word for such a beautiful and necessary thing\". The latter part of the 18th and the early 19th centuries saw the creation of numerous grass-roots \"philanthropic\" and benevolent societies dedicated to human betterment and the spreading of knowledge (some Christian, some not). After the French Revolution, the idea that human virtue could be created by human reason alone independently from traditional religious institutions, attributed by opponents of the Revolution to Enlightenment \"philosophes\" such as Rousseau, was violently attacked by influential religious and political conservatives, such as Edmund Burke and Joseph de Maistre, as a deification or idolatry of humanity. Humanism began to acquire a negative sense. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" records the use of the word \"humanism\" by an English clergyman in 1812 to indicate those who believe in the \"mere humanity\" (as opposed to the divine nature) of Christ, i.e., Unitarians and Deists. In this polarised atmosphere, in which established ecclesiastical bodies tended to circle the wagons and reflexively oppose political and social reforms like extending the franchise, universal schooling, and the like, liberal reformers and radicals embraced the idea of Humanism as an alternative religion of humanity. The anarchist Proudhon (best known for declaring that \"property is theft\") used the word \"humanism\" to describe a \"culte, déification de l’humanité\" (\"worship, deification of humanity\") and Ernest Renan in \"L’avenir de la science: pensées de 1848\" (\"The Future of Knowledge: Thoughts on 1848\") (1848–49), states: \"It is my deep conviction that pure \"humanism\" will be the religion of the future, that is, the cult of all that pertains to humanityall of life, sanctified and raised to the level of a moral value.\"\n\nAt about the same time, the word \"humanism\" as a philosophy centred on humankind (as opposed to institutionalised religion) was also being used in Germany by the Left Hegelians, Arnold Ruge, and Karl Marx, who were critical of the close involvement of the church in the German government. There has been a persistent confusion between the several uses of the terms: philanthropic humanists look to what they consider their antecedents in critical thinking and human-centered philosophy among the Greek philosophers and the great figures of Renaissance history; and scholarly humanists stress the linguistic and cultural disciplines needed to understand and interpret these philosophers and artists.\n\nHuman-centered philosophy that rejected the supernatural may also be found circa 1500 BCE in the Lokayata system of Indian philosophy. Nasadiya Sukta, a passage in the Rig Veda, contains one of the first recorded assertions of agnosticism.\nIn the 6th-century BCE, Gautama Buddha expressed, in Pali literature a skeptical attitude toward the supernatural:\n\nSince neither soul, nor aught belonging to soul, can really and truly exist, the view which holds that this I who am 'world', who am 'soul', shall hereafter live permanent, persisting, unchanging, yea abide eternally: is not this utterly and entirely a foolish doctrine?\n\nAnother instance of ancient humanism as an organised system of thought is found in the Gathas of Zarathustra, composed between 1,000BCE600BCE in Greater Iran. Zarathustra's philosophy in the Gathas lays out a conception of humankind as thinking beings, dignified with choice and agency according to the intellect which each receives from Ahura Mazda (God in the form of supreme wisdom). The idea of Ahura Mazda as a non-intervening deistic god or Great Architect of the Universe was combined with a unique eschatology and ethical system which implied that each person is held morally responsible in the afterlife, for their choices they freely made in life. This importance placed upon thought, action and personal responsibility, and the concept of a non-intervening creator, was a source of inspiration to a number of Enlightenment humanist thinkers in Europe such as Voltaire and Montesquieu.\n\n6th-century BCE pre-Socratic Greek philosophers Thales of Miletus and Xenophanes of Colophon were the first in the region to attempt to explain the world in terms of human reason rather than myth and tradition, thus can be said to be the first Greek humanists. Thales questioned the notion of anthropomorphic gods and Xenophanes refused to recognise the gods of his time and reserved the divine for the principle of unity in the universe. These Ionian Greeks were the first thinkers to assert that nature is available to be studied separately from the supernatural realm. Anaxagoras brought philosophy and the spirit of rational inquiry from Ionia to Athens. Pericles, the leader of Athens during the period of its greatest glory was an admirer of Anaxagoras. Other influential pre-Socratics or rational philosophers include Protagoras (like Anaxagoras a friend of Pericles), known for his famous dictum \"man is the measure of all things\" and Democritus, who proposed that matter was composed of atoms. Little of the written work of these early philosophers survives and they are known mainly from fragments and quotations in other writers, principally Plato and Aristotle. The historian Thucydides, noted for his scientific and rational approach to history, is also much admired by later humanists. In the 3rd century BCE, Epicurus became known for his concise phrasing of the problem of evil, lack of belief in the afterlife, and human-centred approaches to achieving eudaimonia. He was also the first Greek philosopher to admit women to his school as a rule.\n\nMany medieval Muslim thinkers pursued humanistic, rational and scientific discourses in their search for knowledge, meaning and values. A wide range of Islamic writings on love, poetry, history and philosophical theology show that medieval Islamic thought was open to the humanistic ideas of individualism, occasional secularism, skepticism, and liberalism.\n\nAccording to Imad-ad-Dean Ahmad, another reason the Islamic world flourished during the Middle Ages was an early emphasis on freedom of speech, as summarised by al-Hashimi (a cousin of Caliph al-Ma'mun) in the following letter to one of the religious opponents he was attempting to convert through reason:\n\nAccording to George Makdisi, certain aspects of Renaissance humanism has its roots in the medieval Islamic world, including the \"art of \"dictation\", called in Latin, \"ars dictaminis\"\", and \"the humanist attitude toward classical language\".\n\nRenaissance humanism was an intellectual movement in Europe of the later Middle Ages and the Early Modern period. The 19th-century German historian Georg Voigt (1827–91) identified Petrarch as the first Renaissance humanist. Paul Johnson agrees that Petrarch was \"the first to put into words the notion that the centuries between the fall of Rome and the present had been the age of Darkness\". According to Petrarch, what was needed to remedy this situation was the careful study and imitation of the great classical authors. For Petrarch and Boccaccio, the greatest master was Cicero, whose prose became the model for both learned (Latin) and vernacular (Italian) prose.\n\nOnce the language was mastered grammatically it could be used to attain the second stage, eloquence or rhetoric. This art of persuasion [Cicero had held] was not art for its own sake, but the acquisition of the capacity to persuade others – all men and women – to lead the good life. As Petrarch put it, 'it is better to will the good than to know the truth'. Rhetoric thus led to and embraced philosophy. Leonardo Bruni (c.1369–1444), the outstanding scholar of the new generation, insisted that it was Petrarch who \"opened the way for us to show how to acquire learning\", but it was in Bruni's time that the word \"umanista\" first came into use, and its subjects of study were listed as five: grammar, rhetoric, poetry, moral philosophy, and history\".\n\nThe basic training of the humanist was to speak well and write (typically, in the form of a letter). One of Petrarch's followers, Coluccio Salutati (1331–1406) was made chancellor of Florence, \"whose interests he defended with his literary skill. The Visconti of Milan claimed that Salutati’s pen had done more damage than 'thirty squadrons of Florentine cavalry'\".\n\nContrary to a still widely held interpretation that originated in Voigt's celebrated contemporary, Jacob Burckhardt, and which was adopted wholeheartedly – especially by modern thinkers calling themselves \"humanists\" – most specialists today do not characterise Renaissance humanism as a philosophical movement, nor in any way as anti-Christian or even anti-clerical. A modern historian has this to say:\n\nThe \"umanisti\" criticised what they considered the barbarous Latin of the universities, but the revival of the humanities largely did not conflict with the teaching of traditional university subjects, which went on as before.\n\nNor did the humanists view themselves as in conflict with Christianity. Some, like Salutati, were the Chancellors of Italian cities, but the majority (including Petrarch) were ordained as priests, and many worked as senior officials of the Papal court. Humanist Renaissance popes Nicholas V, Pius II, Sixtus IV, and Leo X wrote books and amassed huge libraries.\n\nIn the High Renaissance, in fact, there was a hope that more direct knowledge of the wisdom of antiquity, including the writings of the Church fathers, the earliest known Greek texts of the Christian Gospels, and in some cases even the Jewish Kabbalah, would initiate a harmonious new era of universal agreement. With this end in view, Renaissance Church authorities afforded humanists what in retrospect appears a remarkable degree of freedom of thought. One humanist, the Greek Orthodox Platonist Gemistus Pletho (1355–1452), based in Mystras, Greece (but in contact with humanists in Florence, Venice, and Rome) taught a Christianised version of pagan polytheism.\n\nThe humanists' close study of Latin literary texts soon enabled them to discern historical differences in the writing styles of different periods. By analogy with what they saw as decline of Latin, they applied the principle of \"ad fontes\", or back to the sources, across broad areas of learning, seeking out manuscripts of Patristic literature as well as pagan authors. In 1439, while employed in Naples at the court of Alfonso V of Aragon (at the time engaged in a dispute with the Papal States) the humanist Lorenzo Valla used stylistic textual analysis, now called philology, to prove that the Donation of Constantine, which purported to confer temporal powers on the Pope of Rome, was an 8th-century forgery. For the next 70 years, however, neither Valla nor any of his contemporaries thought to apply the techniques of philology to other controversial manuscripts in this way. Instead, after the fall of the Byzantine Empire to the Turks in 1453, which brought a flood of Greek Orthodox refugees to Italy, humanist scholars increasingly turned to the study of Neoplatonism and Hermeticism, hoping to bridge the differences between the Greek and Roman Churches, and even between Christianity itself and the non-Christian world. The refugees brought with them Greek manuscripts, not only of Plato and Aristotle, but also of the Christian Gospels, previously unavailable in the Latin West.\n\nAfter 1517, when the new invention of printing made these texts widely available, the Dutch humanist Erasmus, who had studied Greek at the Venetian printing house of Aldus Manutius, began a philological analysis of the Gospels in the spirit of Valla, comparing the Greek originals with their Latin translations with a view to correcting errors and discrepancies in the latter. Erasmus, along with the French humanist Jacques Lefèvre d'Étaples, began issuing new translations, laying the groundwork for the Protestant Reformation. Henceforth Renaissance humanism, particularly in the German North, became concerned with religion, while Italian and French humanism concentrated increasingly on scholarship and philology addressed to a narrow audience of specialists, studiously avoiding topics that might offend despotic rulers or which might be seen as corrosive of faith. After the Reformation, critical examination of the Bible did not resume until the advent of the so-called Higher criticism of the 19th-century German Tübingen school.\n\nThe \"ad fontes\" principle also had many applications. The re-discovery of ancient manuscripts brought a more profound and accurate knowledge of ancient philosophical schools such as Epicureanism, and Neoplatonism, whose Pagan wisdom the humanists, like the Church fathers of old, tended, at least initially, to consider as deriving from divine revelation and thus adaptable to a life of Christian virtue. The line from a drama of Terence, \"Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto\" (or with \"nil\" for \"nihil\"), meaning \"I am a human being, I think nothing human alien to me\", known since antiquity through the endorsement of Saint Augustine, gained renewed currency as epitomising the humanist attitude. The statement, in a play modeled or borrowed from a (now lost) Greek comedy by Menander, may have originated in a lighthearted veinas a comic rationale for an old man's meddlingbut it quickly became a proverb and throughout the ages was quoted with a deeper meaning, by Cicero and Saint Augustine, to name a few, and most notably by Seneca. Richard Bauman writes:\n\n\"Homo sum: humani nihil a me alienum puto.\", I am a human being: and I deem nothing pertaining to humanity is foreign to me.\n\nThe words of the comic playwright P.Terentius Afer reverberated across the Roman world of the mid-2nd century BCE and beyond. Terence, an African and a former slave, was well placed to preach the message of universalism, of the essential unity of the human race, that had come down in philosophical form from the Greeks, but needed the pragmatic muscles of Rome in order to become a practical reality. The influence of Terence's felicitous phrase on Roman thinking about human rights can hardly be overestimated. Two hundred years later Seneca ended his seminal exposition of the unity of humankind with a clarion-call:\n\nThere is one short rule that should regulate human relationships. All that you see, both divine and human, is one. We are parts of the same great body. Nature created us from the same source and to the same end. She imbued us with mutual affection and sociability, she taught us to be fair and just, to suffer injury rather than to inflict it. She bid us extend our hands to all in need of help. Let that well-known line be in our heart and on our lips: \"Homo sum, humani nihil a me alienum puto\".\" \n\nBetter acquaintance with Greek and Roman technical writings also influenced the development of European science (see the history of science in the Renaissance). This was despite what A. C. Crombie (viewing the Renaissance in the 19th-century manner as a chapter in the heroic March of Progress) calls \"a backwards-looking admiration for antiquity\", in which Platonism stood in opposition to the Aristotelian concentration on the observable properties of the physical world. But Renaissance humanists, who considered themselves as restoring the glory and nobility of antiquity, had no interest in scientific innovation. However, by the mid-to-late 16th century, even the universities, though still dominated by Scholasticism, began to demand that Aristotle be read in accurate texts edited according to the principles of Renaissance philology, thus setting the stage for Galileo's quarrels with the outmoded habits of Scholasticism.\n\nJust as artist and inventor Leonardo da Vincipartaking of the \"zeitgeist\" though not himself a humanistadvocated study of human anatomy, nature, and weather to enrich Renaissance works of art, so Spanish-born humanist Juan Luis Vives (c. 1493–1540) advocated observation, craft, and practical techniques to improve the formal teaching of Aristotelian philosophy at the universities, helping to free them from the grip of Medieval Scholasticism. Thus, the stage was set for the adoption of an approach to natural philosophy, based on empirical observations and experimentation of the physical universe, making possible the advent of the age of scientific inquiry that followed the Renaissance.\n\nIt was in education that the humanists' program had the most lasting results, their curriculum and methods:\n\nwere followed everywhere, serving as models for the Protestant Reformers as well as the Jesuits. The humanistic school, animated by the idea that the study of classical languages and literature provided valuable information and intellectual discipline as well as moral standards and a civilised taste for future rulers, leaders, and professionals of its society, flourished without interruption, through many significant changes, until our own century, surviving many religious, political and social revolutions. It has but recently been replaced, though not yet completely, by other more practical and less demanding forms of education.\n\nEarly humanists saw no conflict between reason and their Christian faith (see Christian Humanism). They inveighed against the abuses of the Church, but not against the Church itself, much less against religion. For them, the word \"secular\" carried no connotations of disbeliefthat would come later, in the nineteenth century. In the Renaissance to be secular meant simply to be in the world rather than in a monastery. Petrarch frequently admitted that his brother Gherardo's life as a Carthusian monk was superior to his own (although Petrarch himself was in Minor Orders and was employed by the Church all his life). He hoped that he could do some good by winning earthly glory and praising virtue, inferior though that might be to a life devoted solely to prayer. By embracing a non-theistic philosophic base, however, the methods of the humanists, combined with their eloquence, would ultimately have a corrosive effect on established authority.\nYet it was from the Renaissance that modern Secular Humanism grew, with the development of an important split between reason and religion. This occurred as the church's complacent authority was exposed in two vital areas. In science, Galileo's support of the Copernican revolution upset the church's adherence to the theories of Aristotle, exposing them as false. In theology, the Dutch scholar Erasmus with his new Greek text showed that the Roman Catholic adherence to Jerome's Vulgate was frequently in error. A tiny wedge was thus forced between reason and authority, as both of them were then understood.\nFor some, this meant turning back to the Bible as the source of authority instead of the Catholic Church, for others it was a split from theism altogether. This was the main divisive line between the Reformation and the Renaissance, which dealt with the same basic problems, supported the same science based on reason and empirical research, but had a different set of presuppositions (theistic versus naturalistic).\n\nThe phrase the \"religion of humanity\" is sometimes attributed to American Founding Father Thomas Paine, though as yet unattested in his surviving writings. According to Tony Davies: Paine called himself a \"theophilanthropist\", a word combining the Greek for \"God\", \"love\", and \"humanity\", and indicating that while he believed in the existence of a creating intelligence in the universe, he entirely rejected the claims made by and for all existing religious doctrines, especially their miraculous, transcendental and salvationist pretensions. The Parisian \"Society of Theophilanthropy\" which he sponsored, is described by his biographer as \"a forerunner of the ethical and humanist societies that proliferated later\" ... [Paine's book] the trenchantly witty \"Age of Reason\" (1793) ... pours scorn on the supernatural pretensions of scripture, combining Voltairean mockery with Paine's own style of taproom ridicule to expose the absurdity of a theology built on a collection of incoherent Levantine folktales.\n\nDavies identifies Paine's \" The Age of Reason\" as \"the link between the two major narratives of what Jean-François Lyotard calls the narrative of legitimation\": the rationalism of the 18th-century \"Philosophes\" and the radical, historically based German 19th-century Biblical criticism of the Hegelians David Friedrich Strauss and Ludwig Feuerbach. \"The first is political, largely French in inspiration, and projects 'humanity as the hero of liberty'. The second is philosophical, German, seeks the totality and autonomy of knowledge, and stresses \"understanding\" rather than freedom as the key to human fulfilment and emancipation. The two themes converged and competed in complex ways in the 19th century and beyond, and between them set the boundaries of its various humanisms. \"Homo homini deus est\" (\"The human being is a god to humanity\" or \"god is nothing [other than] the human being to himself\"), Feuerbach had written.\n\nVictorian novelist Mary Ann Evans, known to the world as George Eliot, translated Strauss's \"Das Leben Jesu\" (\"The Life of Jesus\", 1846) and Ludwig Feuerbach's \"Das Wesen Christianismus\" (\"The Essence of Christianity\"). She wrote to a friend:\n\nthe fellowship between man and man which has been the principle of development, social and moral, is not dependent on conceptions of what is not man ... the idea of God, so far as it has been a high spiritual influence, is the ideal of goodness entirely human (i.e., an exaltation of the human).\n\nEliot and her circle, who included her companion George Henry Lewes (the biographer of Goethe) and the abolitionist and social theorist Harriet Martineau, were much influenced by the positivism of Auguste Comte, whom Martineau had translated. Comte had proposed an atheistic \"culte\" founded on human principlesa secular Religion of Humanity (which worshiped the dead, since most humans who have ever lived are dead), complete with holidays and liturgy, modeled on the rituals of what was seen as a discredited and dilapidated Catholicism. Although Comte's English followers, like Eliot and Martineau, for the most part rejected the full gloomy panoply of his system, they liked the idea of a religion of humanity. Comte's austere vision of the universe, his injunction to \"vivre pour altrui\" (\"live for others\", from which comes the word \"altruism\"), and his idealisation of women inform the works of Victorian novelists and poets from George Eliot and Matthew Arnold to Thomas Hardy.\n\nThe British Humanistic Religious Association was formed as one of the earliest forerunners of contemporary chartered Humanist organisations in 1853 in London. This early group was democratically organised, with male and female members participating in the election of the leadership, and promoted knowledge of the sciences, philosophy, and the arts.\n\nIn February 1877, the word was used pejoratively, apparently for the first time in America, to describe Felix Adler. Adler, however, did not embrace the term, and instead coined the name \"Ethical Culture\" for his new movement a movement which still exists in the now Humanist-affiliated New York Society for Ethical Culture. In 2008, Ethical Culture Leaders wrote: \"Today, the historic identification, Ethical Culture, and the modern description, Ethical Humanism, are used interchangeably.\"\n\nActive in the early 1920s, F.C.S. Schiller labelled his work \"humanism\" but for Schiller the term referred to the pragmatist philosophy he shared with William James. In 1929, Charles Francis Potter founded the First Humanist Society of New York whose advisory board included Julian Huxley, John Dewey, Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann. Potter was a minister from the Unitarian tradition and in 1930 he and his wife, Clara Cook Potter, published \"Humanism: A New Religion\". Throughout the 1930s, Potter was an advocate of such liberal causes as, women’s rights, access to birth control, \"civil divorce laws\", and an end to capital punishment.\n\nRaymond B. Bragg, the associate editor of \"The New Humanist\", sought to consolidate the input of Leon Milton Birkhead, Charles Francis Potter, and several members of the Western Unitarian Conference. Bragg asked Roy Wood Sellars to draft a document based on this information which resulted in the publication of the \"Humanist Manifesto\" in 1933. Potter's book and the Manifesto became the cornerstones of modern humanism, the latter declaring a new religion by saying, \"any religion that can hope to be a synthesising and dynamic force for today must be shaped for the needs of this age. To establish such a religion is a major necessity of the present.\" It then presented 15 theses of humanism as foundational principles for this new religion.\n\nIn 1941, the American Humanist Association was organised. Noted members of The AHA included Isaac Asimov, who was the president from 1985 until his death in 1992, and writer Kurt Vonnegut, who followed as honorary president until his death in 2007. Gore Vidal became honorary president in 2009. Robert Buckman was the head of the association in Canada, and is now an honorary president.\n\nAfter World War II, three prominent Humanists became the first directors of major divisions of the United Nations: Julian Huxley of UNESCO, Brock Chisholm of the World Health Organization, and John Boyd-Orr of the Food and Agriculture Organization.\n\nIn 2004, American Humanist Association, along with other groups representing agnostics, atheists, and other freethinkers, joined to create the Secular Coalition for America which advocates in Washington, D.C., for separation of church and state and nationally for the greater acceptance of nontheistic Americans. The Executive Director of Secular Coalition for America is Larry T. Decker.\n\n\"Renaissance humanism\" is the name later given to a tradition of cultural and educational reform engaged in by civic and ecclesiastical chancellors, book collectors, educators, and writers, who by the late fifteenth century began to be referred to as \"umanisti\"\"humanists\". It developed during the fourteenth and the beginning of the fifteenth centuries, and was a response to the challenge of scholastic university education, which was then dominated by Aristotelian philosophy and logic. Scholasticism focused on preparing men to be doctors, lawyers or professional theologians, and was taught from approved textbooks in logic, natural philosophy, medicine, law and theology. There were important centres of humanism at Florence, Naples, Rome, Venice, Mantua, Ferrara, and Urbino.\n\nHumanists reacted against this utilitarian approach and the narrow pedantry associated with it. They sought to create a citizenry (frequently including women) able to speak and write with eloquence and clarity and thus capable of engaging the civic life of their communities and persuading others to virtuous and prudent actions. This was to be accomplished through the study of the \"studia humanitatis\", today known as the humanities: grammar, rhetoric, history, poetry and moral philosophy. As a program to revive the culturaland particularly the literarylegacy and moral philosophy of classical antiquity, Humanism was a pervasive cultural mode and not the program of a few isolated geniuses like Rabelais or Erasmus as is still sometimes popularly believed.\n\nSecular humanism is a comprehensive life stance or world view which embraces human reason, metaphysical naturalism, altruistic morality and distributive justice, and consciously rejects supernatural claims, theistic faith and religiosity, pseudoscience, and superstition. It is sometimes referred to as Humanism (with a capital H and no qualifying adjective).\n\nThe International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU) is the world union of 117 Humanist, rationalist, irreligious, atheistic, Bright, secular, Ethical Culture, and freethought organisations in 38 countries. The \"Happy Human\" is the official symbol of the IHEU as well as being regarded as a universally recognised symbol for secular humanism.\n\nAccording to the IHEU's bylaw 5.1:\nHumanism is a democratic and ethical life stance, which affirms that human beings have the right and responsibility to give meaning and shape to their own lives. It stands for the building of a more humane society through an ethic based on human and other natural values in the spirit of reason and free inquiry through human capabilities. It is not theistic, and it does not accept supernatural views of reality.\n\n\"Religious humanists\" are non-superstitious people who nevertheless see ethical humanism as their religion, and who seek to integrate (secular) humanist ethical philosophy with congregational rituals centred on human needs, interests, and abilities. Though practitioners of religious humanism did not officially organise under the name of \"humanism\" until the late 19th and early 20th centuries, non-theistic religions paired with human-centred ethical philosophy have a long history. A unified Ethical Culture movement was first founded in 1876; its founder, Felix Adler was a former member of the Free Religious Association, and conceived of Ethical Culture as a new religion that would retain the ethical message at the heart of all religions. Ethical Culture was religious in the sense of playing a defining role in people's lives and addressing issues of ultimate concern. Nowadays religious humanists in the United States are represented by organisations such as the American Ethical Union, and will simply describe themselves as \"ethical humanists\" or \"humanists\". Secular humanists and religious humanists organise together as part of larger national and international groupings, and differentiate themselves primarily in their attitude to the promotion of humanist thinking.\n\nEarlier attempts at inventing a secular religious tradition informed the Ethical Culture movement. The Cult of Reason () was a religion based on deism devised during the French Revolution by Jacques Hébert, Pierre Gaspard Chaumette and their supporters. In 1793 during the French Revolution, the cathedral Notre Dame de Paris was turned into a \"Temple of Reason\" and for a time Lady Liberty replaced the Virgin Mary on several altars. In the 1850s, Auguste Comte, the Father of Sociology, founded Positivism, a \"religion of humanity\". One of the earliest forerunners of contemporary chartered humanist organisations was the Humanistic Religious Association formed in 1853 in London. This early group was democratically organised, with male and female members participating in the election of the leadership and promoted knowledge of the sciences, philosophy, and the arts.\n\nThe distinction between so-called \"ethical\" humanists and \"secular\" humanists is most pronounced in the United States, although it is becoming less so over time. The philosophical distinction is not reflected at all in Canada, Latin America, Africa, or Asia, or most of Europe. In the UK, where the humanist movement was strongly influenced by Americans in the 19th century, the leading \"ethical societies\" and \"ethical churches\" evolved into secular humanist charities (e.g. the British Ethical Union became the British Humanist Association and later Humanists UK). In Scandinavian countries, \"Human-etik\" or \"\" (roughly synonymous with ethical humanism) is a popular strand within humanism, originating from the works of Danish philosopher Harald Høffding. The Norwegian Humanist Association belongs to this tendency, known as Human-Etisk Forbund (literally \"Human-Ethical League\"). Over time, the emphasis on \"human-etisk\" has become less pronounced, and today HEF promotes both \"humanisme\" and \"human-etisk\". In Sweden, the main Swedish humanist group Humanisterna (\"Humanists\") began as a \"human-ethical association\", like the Norwegian humanists, before adopting the more prevalent secular humanist model popular in most of Europe. Today the distinction in Europe is mostly superficial.\n\nThe modern Buddhist sect Soka Gakkai International practices what has been called \"Nichiren Humanism\", based on txhe Lotus Sutra's focus on self-development and altruism.\n\nPolemics about humanism have sometimes assumed paradoxical twists and turns. Early 20th century critics such as Ezra Pound, T. E. Hulme, and T. S. Eliot considered humanism to be sentimental \"slop\" (Hulme) or \"an old bitch gone in the teeth\" (Pound). Postmodern critics who are self-described anti-humanists, such as Jean-François Lyotard and Michel Foucault, have asserted that humanism posits an overarching and excessively abstract notion of humanity or universal human nature, which can then be used as a pretext for imperialism and domination of those deemed somehow less than human. \"Humanism fabricates the human as much as it fabricates the nonhuman animal\", suggests Timothy Laurie, turning the human into what he calls \"a placeholder for a range of attributes that have been considered most virtuous among humans (e.g. rationality, altruism), rather than most commonplace (e.g. hunger, anger)\". Nevertheless, philosopher Kate Soper notes that by faulting humanism for falling short of its own benevolent ideals, anti-humanism thus frequently \"secretes a humanist rhetoric\".\n\nIn his book, \"Humanism\" (1997), Tony Davies calls these critics \"humanist anti-humanists\". Critics of antihumanism, most notably Jürgen Habermas, counter that while antihumanists may highlight humanism's failure to fulfil its emancipatory ideal, they do not offer an alternative emancipatory project of their own. Others, like the German philosopher Heidegger considered themselves humanists on the model of the ancient Greeks, but thought humanism applied only to the German \"race\" and specifically to the Nazis and thus, in Davies' words, were anti-humanist humanists. Such a reading of Heidegger's thought is itself deeply controversial; Heidegger includes his own views and critique of Humanism in Letter On Humanism. Davies acknowledges that after the horrific experiences of the wars of the 20th century \"it should no longer be possible to formulate phrases like 'the destiny of man' or the 'triumph of human reason' without an instant consciousness of the folly and brutality they drag behind them\". For \"it is almost impossible to think of a crime that has not been committed in the name of human reason\". Yet, he continues, \"it would be unwise to simply abandon the ground occupied by the historical humanisms. For one thing humanism remains on many occasions the only available alternative to bigotry and persecution. The freedom to speak and write, to organise and campaign in defence of individual or collective interests, to protest and disobey: all these can only be articulated in humanist terms.\"\n\nModern humanists, such as Corliss Lamont or Carl Sagan, hold that humanity must seek for truth through reason and the best observable evidence and endorse scientific skepticism and the scientific method. However, they stipulate that decisions about right and wrong must be based on the individual and common good, with no consideration given to metaphysical or supernatural beings. The idea is to engage with what is human. The ultimate goal is human flourishing; making life better for all humans, and as the most conscious species, also promoting concern for the welfare of other sentient beings and the planet as a whole. The focus is on doing good and living well in the here and now, and leaving the world a better place for those who come after. In 1925, the English mathematician and philosopher Alfred North Whitehead cautioned: \"The prophecy of Francis Bacon has now been fulfilled; and man, who at times dreamt of himself as a little lower than the angels, has submitted to become the servant and the minister of nature. It still remains to be seen whether the same actor can play both parts\".\n\nSentientist philosophers criticise humanism for focusing too strongly, sometimes even exclusively, on the human species. They propose Sentientism as an extension of humanism that grants degrees of moral consideration to all sentient beings - those capable of experiencing. Sentient beings include humans and most non-human animals and could potentially include artificial or alien intelligences.\n\nHumanistic psychology is a psychological perspective which rose to prominence in the mid-20th century in response to Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytic theory and B. F. Skinner's Behaviorism. The approach emphasizes an individual's inherent drive towards self-actualization and creativity. Psychologists Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow introduced a positive, humanistic psychology in response to what they viewed as the overly pessimistic view of psychoanalysis in the early 1960s. Other sources include the philosophies of existentialism and phenomenology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1402463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402463", "title": "Hydroinformatics", "text": "Hydroinformatics\n\nHydroinformatics is a branch of informatics which concentrates on the application of information and communications technologies (ICTs) in addressing the increasingly serious problems of the equitable and efficient use of water for many different purposes. Growing out of the earlier discipline of computational hydraulics, the numerical simulation of water flows and related processes remains a mainstay of hydroinformatics, which encourages a focus not only on the technology but on its application in a social context. \n\nOn the technical side, in addition to computational hydraulics, hydroinformatics has a strong interest in the use of techniques originating in the so-called artificial intelligence community, such as artificial neural networks or recently support vector machines and genetic programming. These might be used with large collections of observed data for the purpose of data mining for knowledge discovery, or with data generated from an existing, physically based model in order to generate a computationally efficient emulator of that model for some purpose.\n\nHydroinformatics recognises the inherently social nature of the problems of water management and of decision making processes, and strives to understand the social processes by which technologies are brought into use. Since the problems of water management are most severe in the majority world, while the resources to obtain and develop technological solutions are concentrated in the hands of the minority, the need to examine these social processes are particularly acute.\n\nHydroinformatics draws on and integrates hydraulics, hydrology, environmental engineering and many other disciplines. It sees application at all points in the water cycle from atmosphere to ocean, and in artificial interventions in that cycle such as urban drainage and water supply systems. It provides support for decision making at all levels from governance and policy through management to operations.\n\nHydroinformatics has a growing world-wide community of researchers and practitioners, and postgraduate programmes in Hydroinformatics are offered by many leading institutions. The Journal of Hydroinformatics provides a specific outlet for Hydroinformatics research, and the community gathers to exchange ideas at the biennial conferences. These activities are coordinated by the joint IAHR, IWA, IAHS Hydroinformatics Section.\n\nThere is a growing need for professionals and managers to appreciate and work with these new technologies and tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "13808955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13808955", "title": "Héctor Febres", "text": "Héctor Febres\n\nHéctor Febres (died 10 December 2007) was an Argentine coastguard officer who died while awaiting sentencing after being tried for torture. \n\nFebres was accused of having tortured dissidents during Argentina's Dirty War period. Thousands of dissidents were tortured at the Navy School of Mechanics, known as ESMA, for seven years beginning in 1976. Febrés was accused of torturing prisoners at the ESMA, and the prosecution had asked for life imprisonment. Febres was found dead in his cell from apparent cyanide poisoning days before he was to be sentenced. His wife and adult children, and two guards, were arrested in connection with his death; they had dined with him the previous evening. It was reported that \"Febres had stories to tell and many suspected he might talk\", and police were investigating whether he was murdered or killed himself; prosecution lawyers were convinced he was silenced by people linked to the military. Febres would have been the first person from the ESMA to be sentenced.\n"}
{"id": "52966974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52966974", "title": "In situ bioremediation", "text": "In situ bioremediation\n\nBioremediation is the process of decontaminating polluted sites through the usage of either endogenous or external microorganism. In situ is a term utilized within a variety of fields meaning \"on site\" and refers to the location of an event. Within the context of bioremediation, in situ indicates that the location of the bioremediation has occurred at the site of contamination without the translocation of the polluted materials. Bioremediation is used to neutralize pollutants including Hydrocarbons, chlorinated compounds, nitrates, toxic metals and other pollutants through a variety of chemical mechanisms. Microorganism used in the process of bioremediation can either be implanted or cultivated within the site through the application of fertilizers and other nutrients. Common polluted sites targeted by bioremediation are groundwater/aquifers and polluted soils. Aquatic ecosystems affected by oil spills have also shown improvement through the application of bioremediation. The most notable cases being the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 and the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989. Two variations of bioremediation exist defined by the location where the process occurs. Ex situ bioremediation occurs at a location separate from the contaminated site and involves the translocation of the contaminated material. In situ occurs within the site of contamination In situ bioremediation can further be categorized by the metabolism occurring, aerobic and anaerobic, and by the level of human involvement.\nThe Sun Oil pipeline spill in Ambler, Pennsylvania spurred the first commercial usage of in situ bioremediation in 1972 to remove hydrocarbons from contaminated sites. A patent was filed in 1974 by Richard Raymond, Reclamation of Hydrocarbon Contaminated Ground Waters, which provided the basis for the commercialization of in situ bioremediation.\n\nAccelerated in situ bioremediation is defined when a specified microorganism is targeted for growth through the application of either nutrients or an electron donor to the contaminated site. Within aerobic metabolism the nutrient added to the soil can be solely Oxygen. Anaerobic in situ bioremediation often requires a variety of electron donors or acceptors such as benzoate and lactate. Besides nutrients, microorganisms can also be introduced directly to the site within accelerated in situ bioremediation. The addition of extraneous microorganisms to a site is termed bioaugmentation and is used when a particular microorganism is effective at degrading the pollutant at the site and is not found either naturally or at a high enough population to be effective. Accelerated in situ bioremediation is utilized when the desired population of microorganisms within a site is not naturally present at a sufficient level to effectively degrade the pollutants. It also is used when the required nutrients within the site are either not at a concentration sufficient to support growth or are unavailable.\n\nThe Raymond Process is a type of accelerated in situ bioremediation that was developed by Richard Raymond and involves the introduction of nutrients and electron acceptors to a contaminated site. This process is primarily used to treat polluted groundwater. In the Raymond process a loop system is created. Contaminated Groundwater from downstream of the groundwater flow is pumped to the surface and infused with nutrients and an electron donor, often oxygen. This treated water is then pumped back down below the water table upstream of where it was originally taken. This process introduces nutrients and electron donors into the site allowing for the growth of a determined microbial population.\n\nIn contaminated sites where the desired microbial metabolism is aerobic the introduction of oxygen to the site can be used to increase the population of targeted microorganisms. The injection of Oxygen can occur through a variety of processes. Oxygen can be injected into the subsurface through injection wells. It can also be introduced through an injection gallery. The presence of oxygen within a site is often the limiting factor when determining the time frame and efficacy of a proposed in situ bioremediation process.\n\nOzone injected into the subsurface can also be a means of introducing oxygen into a contaminated site. Despite being a strong oxidizing agent and potentially having a toxic effect on subsurface microbial populations, ozone can be an efficient means of spreading oxygen throughout a site due to its high solubility. Within twenty minutes after being injected into the subsurface, fifty percent of the ozone will have decomposed to Oxygen. Ozone is commonly introduced to the soil in either a dissolved or gaseous state.\n\nWithin accelerated anaerobic in situ bioremediation electron donors and acceptors are introduced into a contaminated site in order to increase the population of anaerobic microorganisms.\n\nMonitored Natural Attenuation is in situ bioremediation that occurs with little to no human intervention. This process relies on the natural microbial populations sustained within the contaminated sites to over time reduce the contaminants to a desired level. During monitored natural attenuation the site is monitored in order to track the progress of the bioremediation. Monitored natural attenuation is used in sites where the source of contamination is no longer present, often after other more active types of in situ bioremediation have been conducted.\n\nNaturally occurring within the soil are microbial populations that utilize hydrocarbons as a source of energy and Carbon. Upwards to twenty percent of microbial soil populations have the ability to metabolize hydrocarbons. These populations can through either accelerated or natural monitored attenuation be utilized to neutralize within the soil hydrocarbon pollutants. The metabolic mode of hydrocarbon remediation is primarily aerobic. The end products of the remediation for hydrocarbons are Carbon Dioxide and water. Hydrocarbons vary in ease of degradation based on their structure. Long chain aliphatic carbons are the most effectively degraded. Short chained, branched, and quaternary aliphatic hydrocarbons are less effectively degraded. Alkene degradation is dependent on the saturation of the chain with saturated alkenes being more readily degraded. Large numbers of microbes with the ability to metabolize aromatic hydrocarbons are present within the soil. Aromatic hydrocarbons are also susceptible to being degraded through anaerobic metabolism. Hydrocarbon metabolism is an important facet of in situ bioremediation due to the severity of petroleum spills around the world. Polynuclear aromatic carbons susceptibility to degradation is related to the number of aromatic rings within the compound. Compounds with two or three rings are degraded at an effective rate, compounds possessing four or more rings can be more resilient to bioremediation efforts. Degradation of polynuclear aromatic carbons with less than four rings is accomplished by various aerobic microbes present in the soil. For larger compounds the only metabolic mode that has shown to be effective is cometabolism. The fungus genus Phanerochaete under anaerobic conditions has species with the ability to metabolize some polynuclear aromatic carbons utilizing a peroxidase enzyme.\n\nA variety of metabolic modes exist capable of degrading chlorinated aliphatic compounds. Anaerobic reduction, oxidation of the compound, and cometabolism under aerobic conditions are the three main metabolic modes utilized by microorganisms to degrade chlorinated aliphatic compounds. Organisms that can readily metabolize chlorinated aliphatic compounds are not common in the environment. One and two carbons that have little chlorination are the compounds most effectively metabolized by soil microbial populations. The degradation of chlorinated aliphatic compounds is most often performed through cometabolism. \n\nChlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons are resistant to bioremediation and many microorganisms lack the ability to degrade the compounds. Chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons are most often degraded through a process of reductive dechlorination under anaerobic conditions. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are primarily degraded through cometabolism. There are also some fungi that can degrade the compounds as well. Studies show an increase in PCB degradation when biphenyl is added to the site due to cometabolic affects the enzymes used to degrade biphenyl have on PCBs.\n\nDue to in situ bioremediation taking place at the site of contamination there is a lessened risk of cross contamination as opposed to ex situ bioremediation where the polluted material is transported to other sites. In situ bioremediation can also have lower costs and a higher rate of decontamination than ex situ bioremediation.\n"}
{"id": "38880219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38880219", "title": "Job Bartram", "text": "Job Bartram\n\nJob Bartram (March 20, 1735 – October 28, 1817) was a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives from Norwalk in the sessions of May and October 1790. He served as a captain of the Connecticut Militia in the American Revolutionary War.\n\nBartram was born in Fairfield, Connecticut Colony on March 20, 1735. He married Jerusha Thompson on November 18, 1762. She died on November 23, 1773. Bartram next married Abigail Starr on November 7, 1774. They had one son Daniel Starr Bartram, born 1775. He next married Elizabeth Scudder on August 27, 1776.\n\nBartram was in command of a company in Connecticut's Fifth Regiment under Colonel Samuel Whiting in 1777. He was wounded in Fairfield, in 1779.\n\nJob Bartram was drowned along with Stephen Morehouse off Black Rock Harbor, Bridgeport.\n\nTomb inscription: \"In memory of Mr. Job Bartram who was drowned October 28, 1817 aged 50 years & 6 months. Also of Jane daughter of Mr. Job & Mrs. Ruth Bartram died Oct 29. 1815, aged 16 months.\nDeath like an overflowing stream, \nSweeps us away: our life's a dream: \nAn empty tale, a morning flower. \nCut down and wither'd in an hour.\"\n"}
{"id": "18356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18356", "title": "Lindow Man", "text": "Lindow Man\n\nLindow Man, also known as Lindow II and (in jest) as Pete Marsh, is the preserved bog body of a man discovered in a peat bog at Lindow Moss near Wilmslow in Cheshire, North West England. The human remains were found on 1 August 1984 by commercial peat-cutters. Lindow Man is not the only bog body to have been found in the moss; Lindow Woman was discovered the year before, and other body parts have also been recovered. The find, described as \"one of the most significant archaeological discoveries of the 1980s\", caused a media sensation. It helped invigorate study of British bog bodies, which had previously been neglected in comparison to those found in the rest of Europe.\n\nAt the time of death, Lindow Man was a healthy male in his mid-20s, and he may have been someone of high status, as his body shows little evidence of heavy or rough work. There has been debate over the reason for Lindow Man's death, for the nature of his demise was violent, perhaps ritualistic; after a last meal of charred bread, Lindow Man was strangled, hit on the head, and his throat cut. Dating the body has proven problematic, but it is thought that Lindow Man was deposited into Lindow Moss, face down, some time between 2 BC and 119 AD, in either the Iron Age or Romano-British period. The recovered body has been preserved by freeze-drying and is on permanent display at the British Museum, although it occasionally travels to other venues such as the Manchester Museum.\n\nLindow Moss is a peat bog in Lindow, an area of Wilmslow, Cheshire, which has been used as common land since the medieval period. It formed after the last ice age, one of many such peat bogs in north-east Cheshire and the Mersey basin that formed in hollows caused by melting ice. Investigations have not yet discovered settlement or agricultural activity around the edge of Lindow Moss that would have been contemporary with Lindow Man; however, analysis of pollen in the peat suggests there was some cultivation in the vicinity. Once covering over , the bog has now shrunk to a tenth of its original size. It is a dangerous place; an 18th-century writer recorded people drowning there. For centuries the peat from the bog was used as fuel, and it continued to be extracted until the 1980s, by which time the process had been mechanised. Lindow Moss is a lowland raised mire; this type of peat bog often produces the best preserved bog bodies, allowing more detailed analysis. Lowland raised mires occur mainly in northern England and extend south to the Midlands. Lindow Man is one of 27 bodies to be recovered from such areas.\n\nOn 13 May 1983, two peat workers at Lindow Moss, Andy Mould and Stephen Dooley, noticed an unusual object—about the size of a football—on the elevator taking peat to the shredding machine. They removed the object for closer inspection, joking that it was a dinosaur egg. Once the peat had been removed, their discovery turned out to be a decomposing, incomplete human head with one eye and some hair intact. Forensics identified the skull as belonging to a European woman, probably aged 30–50. Police initially thought the skull was that of Malika Reyn-Bardt, who had disappeared in 1960 and was the subject of an ongoing investigation. While in prison on another charge, her husband, Peter Reyn-Bardt, had boasted that he had killed his wife and buried her in the back garden of their bungalow, which was on the edge of the area of mossland where peat was being dug. The garden was examined but no body was recovered there. When Reyn-Bardt was confronted with the discovery of the skull from Lindow Moss, he confessed to the murder of his wife. It was later radiocarbon dated, revealing it to be nearly 2,000 years old. \"Lindow Woman\", as it became known, dated from around 210 AD. This emerged shortly before Reyn-Bardt went to trial, but he was convicted on the evidence of his confession.\n\nA year later a further discovery was made at Lindow Moss, just south-west of the Lindow Woman. On 1 August 1984, Andy Mould, who had been involved in the discovery of Lindow Woman, took what he thought was a piece of wood off the elevator of the peat-shredding machine. He threw the object at Eddie Slack, his workmate. When it hit the ground, peat fell off the object and revealed it to be a human foot. The police were called and the foot was taken away for examination. Rick Turner, the Cheshire County Archaeologist, was notified of the discovery and succeeded in finding the rest of the body, which later became known as Lindow Man. Some skin had been exposed and had started to decay, so to prevent further deterioration of the body, it was re-covered with peat. The complete excavation of the block containing the remains was performed on 6 August. Until it could be dated, it was moved to the Macclesfield District General Hospital for storage. As the body of Malika Reyn-Bardt had still not been found, it was thought possible the body might be hers, until it was determined to be male, and radiocarbon dated. The owners of the land on which Lindow Man was found donated the body to the British Museum, and on 21 August it was transported to London.\n\nAt the time, the body was dubbed \"Pete Marsh\" (a pun on \"peat marsh\") by Middlesex Hospital radiologists, a name subsequently adopted by local journalists, as was the similar \"Pete Bogg\" (a pun on \"peat bog\"). The find was announced to the press during the second week of investigation. As the best preserved bog body found in Britain, its discovery caused a domestic media sensation and received global coverage. Sparking excitement in the country's archaeological community, who had long expected such a find, it was hailed as one of the most important archaeological discoveries of the 1980s. A \"Q.E.D.\" documentary about Lindow Man broadcast by the BBC in 1985 attracted 10 million viewers.\n\nLindow Man's official name is Lindow II, as there are other finds from the area: Lindow I (Lindow Woman) refers to a human skull, Lindow III to a \"fragmented headless body\", and Lindow IV to the upper thigh of an adult male, possibly that of Lindow Man. After the discovery of Lindow Man, there were no further archaeological excavations at Lindow Moss until 1987. A large piece of skin was found by workmen on the elevator on 6 February 1987. On this occasion, the police left the investigation to the archaeologists. Over 70 pieces were found, constituting Lindow III. Although the bone was not as well preserved as that of Lindow Man, the other tissues survived in better condition. The final discovery was that of Lindow IV on 14 June 1988. Part of a left leg and buttocks were found on the elevator, from a site just west of where Lindow Man was found. Nearly three months later, on 12 September, a right thigh was discovered in the peat on the bucket of a digger. The proximity of the discovery sites, coupled with the fact that the remains were shown to come from an adult male, means that Lindow IV is probably part of Lindow Man.\n\nLindow Man marked the first discovery in Britain of a well-preserved bog body; its condition was comparable to that of Grauballe Man and Tollund Man from Denmark. Before Lindow Man was found, it was estimated that 41 bog bodies had been found in England and Wales and 15 in Scotland. Encouraged by the discovery of Lindow Man, a gazetteer was compiled, which revealed a far higher number of bog bodies: over 85 in England and Wales and over 36 in Scotland. Prior to the discovery of the bodies in Lindow Moss, British bog bodies had been a relatively neglected subject compared to European examples. The interest caused by Lindow Man led to more in-depth research of accounts of discoveries in bogs since the 17th century; by 1995, the numbers had changed to 106 in England and Wales and 34 in Scotland. The remains covered a large time frame.\n\nIn life, Lindow Man would have measured between 5'6\" and 5'8\" (1.68 and 1.73 m) tall and weighed about . It was possible to ascertain that his age at death was around the mid-20s. The body retains a trimmed beard, moustache, and sideburns of brown hair, as well as healthy teeth with no visible cavities, and manicured fingernails, indicating he did little heavy or rough work. Apart from a fox-fur armband, Lindow Man was discovered completely naked. When he died, Lindow Man was suffering from slight osteoarthritis and an infestation of whipworm and maw worm. As a result of decalcification of the bones and pressure from the peat under which Lindow Man was buried, his skull was distorted. While some preserved human remains may contain DNA, peat bogs such as Lindow Moss are generally poor for such a purpose, and it is unlikely that DNA could be recovered from Lindow Man.\n\nLindow Man and Lindow III were found to have elevated levels of copper on their skin. The cause for this was uncertain as there could have been natural causes, although a study by Pyatt \"et al.\" proposed that the bodies may have been painted with a copper-based pigment. To test this, skin samples were taken from places likely to be painted and tested against samples from areas where painting was unlikely. It was found that the copper content of the skin of the torso was higher than the control areas, suggesting that the theory of Pyatt \"et al.\" may have been correct. However, the conclusion was ambiguous as the overall content was above that expected of a male, and variations across the body may have been due to environmental factors. Similarly, green deposits were found in the hair, originally thought to be a copper-based pigment used for decoration, but it was later found to be the result of a reaction between the keratin in the hair and the acid of the peat bog.\n\nDating Lindow Man is problematic as samples from the body and surrounding peat have produced dates spanning a 900-year period. Although the peat encasing Lindow Man has been radiocarbon dated to about 300 BC, Lindow Man himself has a different date. Early tests at different laboratories returned conflicting dates for the body; later tests suggested a date between 2 BC and 119 AD. There has been a tendency to ascribe the body to the Iron Age period rather than Roman due to the interpretation that Lindow Man's death may have been a ritual sacrifice or execution. Explanations for why the peat in which he was found is much older have been sought. Archaeologist P. C. Buckland suggests that as the stratigraphy of the peat appears undisturbed, Lindow Man may have been deposited into a pool that was already some 300 years old. Geographer K. E. Barber has argued against this hypothesis, saying that pools at Lindow Moss would have been too shallow, and suggests that the peat may have been peeled back to allow the burial and then replaced, leaving the stratigraphy apparently undisturbed.\n\nLindow Man's last meal was preserved in his stomach and intestines and was analysed in some detail. It was hoped that investigations into the contents of the stomach would shed light on the contemporary diet, as was the case with Grauballe Man and Tollund Man in the 1950s. The analysis of the contents of the digestive system of bog bodies had become one of the principal endeavours of investigating such remains. Analysis of the grains present revealed his diet to be mostly of cereals. He probably ate slightly charred bread, although the burning may have had ritual significance rather than being an accident. Some mistletoe pollen was also found in the stomach, indicating that Lindow Man died in March or April.\n\nOne of the conclusions of the study was that the people buried in Lindow Moss may have had a less varied diet than their European counterparts. According to Jody Joy, curator of the Iron Age collection at the British Museum, the importance of Lindow Man lies more in how he lived rather than how he died, as the circumstances surrounding his demise may never be fully established.\n\nAs the peat was cleaned off the body in the laboratory, it became clear that Lindow Man had suffered a violent death. The injuries included a V-shaped, cut on top of his head; a possible laceration at the back of the head, ligature marks on the neck where a sinew cord was found, a possible wound on the right side of the neck, a possible stab wound in the upper right chest, a broken neck, and a fractured rib. Xeroradiography revealed that the blow on top of the head (causing the V-shaped cut) was caused by a relatively blunt object; it had fractured the skull and driven fragments into the brain. Swelling along the edges of the wound indicated that Lindow Man had lived after being struck. The blow, possibly from a small axe, would have caused unconsciousness, but Lindow Man could have survived for several hours afterwards. The ligature marks on the neck were caused by tightening the sinew cord found around his neck, possibly a garrotte or necklace.\n\nIt is not possible to confirm whether some injuries took place before or after death, due to the body's state of decay. This is the case for the wound in the upper right chest and the laceration on the back of the skull. The cut on the right of the neck may have been the result of the body becoming bloated, causing the skin to split; however, the straight edges to the wound suggest that it may have been caused by a sharp instrument, such as a knife. The ligature marks on the neck may have occurred after death. In some interpretations of Lindow Man's death, the sinew is a garrotte used to break the man's neck. However, Robert Connolly, a lecturer in physical anthropology, suggests that the sinew may have been ornamental and that ligature marks may have been caused by the body swelling when submerged. The rib fracture may also have occurred after death, perhaps during the discovery of the body, but is included in some narratives of Lindow Man's death. The broken neck would have proven the fatal injury, whether caused by the sinew cord tightening around the neck or by blows to the back of the head. After death, Lindow Man was deposited into Lindow Moss face down.\n\nArchaeologist Don Brothwell considers that many of the older bodies need re-examining with modern techniques, such as those used in the analysis of Lindow Man. The study of bog bodies, including these found in Lindow Moss, has contributed to a wider understanding of well-preserved human remains, helping to develop new methods in analysis and investigation. The use of sophisticated techniques, such as computer tomography (CT) scans, has marked the investigation of the Lindow bodies as particularly important. Such scans allow the reconstruction of the body and internal examination. Of the 27 bodies recovered from lowland raised mires in England and Wales, only those from Lindow Moss and the remains of Worsley Man have survived, together with a shoe from another body. The remains have a date range from the early 1st to the 4th centuries. Investigation into the other bodies relies on contemporary descriptions of the discovery.\n\nThe physical evidence allows a general reconstruction of how Lindow Man was killed, although some details are debated, but it does not explain why he was killed. In North West England, there is little evidence for religious or ritual activity in the Iron Age period. What evidence does survive is usually in the form of artefacts recovered from peat bogs. Late Iron Age burials in the region often took the form of a crouched inhumation, sometimes with personal ornaments. Although dated to the mid-1st century AD, the type of burial of Lindow Man was more common in the pre-historic period. In the latter half of the 20th century, scholars widely believed that bog bodies demonstrating injuries to the neck or head area were examples of ritual sacrifice. Bog bodies were associated with Germanic and Celtic cultures, specifically relating to head worship.\n\nAccording to Brothwell, Lindow Man is one of the most complex examples of \"overkill\" in a bog body, and possibly has ritual meaning as it was \"extravagant\" for a straightforward murder. Archaeologists John Hodgson and Mark Brennand suggest that bog bodies may have been related to religious practice, although there is division in the academic community over this issue. In the case of Lindow Man, scholars debate whether the killing was murder or done as part of ritual. Anne Ross, an expert on Iron Age religion, proposed that the death was an example of human sacrifice and that the \"triple death\" (throat cut, strangled, and hit on the head) was an offering to several different gods. The wide date range for Lindow Man's death (2 BC to 119 AD) means he may have met his demise after the Romans conquered northern England in the 60s AD. As the Romans outlawed human sacrifice, such timing would open up other possibilities. This conclusion was emphasised by historian Ronald Hutton, who challenged the interpretation of sacrificial death. Connolly suggests that as Lindow Man was found naked, he could have been the victim of a violent robbery.\n\nJoy said,\n\"The jury really is still out on these bodies, whether they were aristocrats, priests, criminals, outsiders, whether they went willingly to their deaths or whether they were executed – but Lindow was a very remote place in those days, an unlikely place for an ambush or a murder\".\n\n Environment and situation are the crucial factors that determine how corpses decay. For instance, corpses will decay differently depending on the weather, the way they are buried, and the medium in which they are buried. Peat slows the decay of corpses. It was feared that, once Lindow Man was removed from that environment, which had preserved the body for nearly 2,000 years, the remains would rapidly start to deteriorate, so steps were taken to ensure preservation. After rejecting methods that had been used to maintain the integrity of other bog bodies, such as the \"pit-tanning\" used on Grauballe Man, which took a year and a half, scientists settled on freeze-drying. In preparation, the body was covered in a solution of 15% polyethylene glycol 400 and 85% water to prevent its becoming distorted. The body was then frozen solid and the ice vaporised to ensure Lindow Man did not shrink. Afterwards, Lindow Man was put in a specially constructed display case to control the environment, maintaining the temperature at and the humidity at 55%.\n\nLindow Man is held in the British Museum. Before the remains were transferred there, people from North West England launched an unsuccessful campaign to keep the body in Manchester. The bog body has been on temporary display in other venues: at the Manchester Museum on three occasions, April to , March to , and to ; and at the Great North Museum in Newcastle from August to . The 2008–09 Manchester display, titled \"Lindow Man: A Bog Body Mystery Exhibition at the Manchester Museum\", won the category \"Best Archaeological Innovation\" in the 2010 British Archaeological Awards, run by the Council for British Archaeology.\n\nCritics have complained that, by museum display of the remains, the body of Lindow Man has been objectified rather than treated with the respect due the dead. Emma Restall Orr, a neo-druid, has questioned whether the body should be displayed at all. This is part of a wider discussion about the scientific treatment of human remains and museum researchers and archaeologists using them as information sources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "160530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160530", "title": "Lucas Barrett", "text": "Lucas Barrett\n\nLucas Barrett (14 November 1837 – 19 December 1862) was an English naturalist and geologist.\n\nBarrett was born in London and educated at University College School. He went to Ebersdorf, near Lobenstein, Vogtland, Germany in 1853, studying botany and chemistry for a year. In 1855, he accompanied Robert MacAndrew on a dredging excursion from the Shetland Islands to Norway and beyond the Arctic Circle; he subsequently made other cruises, to Greenland and to the coast of Spain. These expeditions laid the foundations of an extensive knowledge of the distribution of marine life.\n\nJames Scott Bowerbank named in 1858 a new species of deep-sea sponge after him: \"Geodia barretti.\" It had been collected by R. MacAndrew and L. Barrett on the Norwegian coast.\n\nIn 1855, he was engaged by Adam Sedgwick to assist in the Woodwardian Museum at Cambridge. During the following three years, he aided the professor by delivering lectures. He discovered bones of birds in the Cambridge Greensand, and he prepared a geological map of Cambridge on the one-inch Ordnance map. In 1859, when he was twenty-two, he was appointed director of the Geological Survey of Jamaica. There, he determined the Cretaceous age of certain rocks that contained \"Hippurites\". S. P. Woodward named the new genus \"Barrettia\" after him. Barrett also collected many fossils from the Miocene and newer strata.\n\nHe drowned, at the age of twenty-five, while investigating the sea-bottom off Kingston, Jamaica.\n"}
{"id": "31845142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31845142", "title": "Luminex Corporation", "text": "Luminex Corporation\n\nLuminex Corporation is a biotechnology company based in Austin, Texas, with offices in Madison, Wisconsin, Chicago, Illinois, Toronto, the Netherlands, Shanghai and Tokyo. Luminex develops, manufactures and markets proprietary biological testing technologies with applications in life-sciences. Nachum \"Homi\" Shamir has served as Luminex's President and Chief Executive Officer since October, 2014. Luminex was recognized by Forbes magazine as one of the top 25 fastest growing technology companies in the US.\n\nLuminex's Multi-Analyte Profiling (xMAP) technology allows simultaneous analysis of up to 500 bioassays from a small sample volume, typically a single drop of fluid, by reading biological tests on the surface of microscopic polystyrene beads called microspheres. xMAP technology combines this miniaturized liquid array bioassay capability with small lasers, light emitting diodes (LEDs), digital signal processors, photo detectors, charge-coupled device imaging and proprietary software to create a system offering advantages in speed, precision, flexibility and cost. xMAP technology is currently being used within various segments of the life sciences industry, which includes the fields of drug discovery and development, and for clinical diagnostics, genetic analysis, bio-defense, food safety and biomedical research. Luminex MultiCode technology, used for real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and\nmultiplexed PCR assays.\n\nLuminex Corporation owns 315 issued patents worldwide, including over 124 issued patents in the United States based on its multiplexing xMAP platform. Luminex's proprietary multiplex bead-based immunoassay testing platform simultaneously measures multiple analytes by exciting a sample with a laser, and subsequently analyzing the wavelength of emitted light. Luminex's MAGPIX platform utilizes LED technology and digital photography to analyze,\"color-coded magnetic microspheres\". In 2008 Luminex received FDA 510(k) clearance for its xTAG Respiratory Viral Panel which allows doctors to test for the presence of 12 respiratory viruses with a very high degree of accuracy in a matter of hours, and has been proven to provide an increase in accuracy over in-house nucleic acid amplification testing in the diagnosis of respiratory virus infections. Luminex's xTAG Gastrointestinal Pathogen Panel was granted a CE mark by the European Union in 2012 and received FDA and Health Canada clearance in early 2013. Luminex also has an extensive portfolio of genetics assays focused on cystic fibrosis and pharmacogenetics.\n\nIn 2010 Luminex Corporation received the Prix Galien USA award. In 2011 Luminex Corporation's MAGPIX multiplexing bioassay platform received the Medical Design Excellence Award.\n"}
{"id": "52760158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52760158", "title": "Luo Junqiang", "text": "Luo Junqiang\n\nLuo Junqiang () (1902 – February 22, 1970) was a politician of the Republic of China. He was born in Xiangtan, Hunan. In 1922, at the age of 20, Luo joined the Communist Party of China, but later left it to join the Kuomintang. He served in the government of Wang Jingwei in Nanjing during the Second Sino-Japanese War. After the downfall of Wang's government in 1945, Luo was arrested and imprisoned. He died in custody in Shanghai.\n\n"}
{"id": "52908872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52908872", "title": "Maighread nighean Lachlainn", "text": "Maighread nighean Lachlainn\n\nMaighread nighean Lachlainn (c. 1660–?) was an eighteenth-century Scottish Gaelic poet from Mull. In her poetry, she mentions the Jacobite risings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21785076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21785076", "title": "Maria Dickin", "text": "Maria Dickin\n\nMaria Elisabeth Dickin CBE (nickname, Mia; 22 September 1870 – 1 March 1951) was a social reformer and an animal welfare pioneer who founded the People's Dispensary for Sick Animals (PDSA) in 1917. Born in 1870 in London, she was the oldest of eight children; her parents were William George Dickin, a Wesleyan minister, and Ellen Maria (née Exell). She married her first cousin, Arnold Francis Dickin, an accountant, in 1899; they had no children. She enjoyed music, literary work and philanthropy. Dickin died in London in 1951 of influenzal broncho-pneumonia.\n\nThe Dickin Medal is named after her.\n\nA commemorative blue plaque was erected by English Heritage at Dickin's birthplace, 41 Cassland Road (formerly 1 Farringdon Terrace) in Hackney in October 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "13582519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13582519", "title": "Maria de Abarca", "text": "Maria de Abarca\n\nMaria de Abarca, often referred to as Doña Maria de Abarca, was a seventeenth century Spanish painter active between 1630 - 1656 in Madrid, Spain. She was born in Madrid, however the dates of her birth and death are unknown. Little is known of her family, but an entry in Dr. Coombe’s Catalogue of Engravers’ Specimens suggests that her father may have been Marius Abacus. She was known for her work as an amateur portrait painter, and praised for her ability in taking likenesses. Maria de Abarca was a contemporary of Peter Paul Rubens and Diego Velázquez, who reportedly admired her work.\n"}
{"id": "4251826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4251826", "title": "Master McGrath", "text": "Master McGrath\n\nMaster McGrath (1866–1873) was a famous Greyhound in the sport of hare coursing.\n\nMaster McGrath was born in County Waterford, Ireland. A small, weak pup, he went on to become the most celebrated and successful dog of his time. Master McGrath was born in 1866 at Colligan Lodge, the home of James Galwey, a well-known trainer and owner of greyhounds. Master McGrath was one of a litter of seven pups and although small was powerfully built. As a pup, his pet name was \"Dicksy\".\n\nThe dog showed none of the outstanding qualities which were later to make him famous at his first trial; his performance was so bad that his trainer ordered him to be given away. As luck would have it his \"slipper\" (handler) took charge of him and having more faith in him, entered him in several courses which he won. After these wins, he was returned to his trainer.\n\nHe won the Waterloo Cup on three occasions, 1868, 1869 and 1871, and was the first greyhound to do so. He became such a celebrity that his owner, The 2nd Baron Lurgan, was asked to take him to be seen by Queen Victoria and the British Royal Family. His success enabled Lord Lurgan to build a terrace of houses in Walthamstow from Master McGrath's winnings. These houses now form part of Shernhall Street, but are still clearly marked at one end of the terrace as \"Master McGrath Terrace\".\n\nMaster McGrath died early in 1873 of heart disease which had already ended his career as a sire. An autopsy showed that his heart was twice the size of a normal dog's heart. He was buried in the grounds of a house called \"Solitude\" in Lurgan. The house has since been demolished for development and Master McGrath's grave lies at a house once owned by an early English settler.\n\n\nEighteen sixty eight being the date and the year, <br>\nThose Waterloo sportsmen and more did appear; <br>\nFor to gain the great prizes and bear them awa',<br>\nNever counting on Ireland and Master McGrath.\n\nOn the twelfth of December, that day of renown,<br>\nMcGrath and his keeper they left Lurgan town;<br>\nA gale in the Channel, it soon drove them o'er,<br>\nOn the thirteenth they landed on fair England's shore.\n\nAnd when they arrived there in big London town,<br>\nThose great English sportsmen all gathered round -<br>\nAnd one of the gentlemen gave a \"Ha! Ha!\" Saying,<br>\n\"Is that the great dog you call Master McGrath?\"\n\nAnd one of those gentlemen standing around<br>\nSays, \"I don't care a damn for your Irish greyhound,\"<br>\nAnd another he laughs with a scornful \"Ha! Ha!<br>\nWe'll soon humble the pride of your Master McGrath.\"\n\nThen Lord Lurgan stepped forward and said, \"Gentlemen,<br>\nIf there's any among you has money to spend -<br>\nFor your grand english nobles I don't care a straw -<br>\nHere's five thousand to one upon Master McGrath.\"\n\nThen McGrath he looked up and he wagged his old tail,<br>\nInforming his lordship, \"I know what you mane,<br>\nDon't fear, noble Brownlow, don't fear them, agra,<br>\nFor I'll tarnish their laurels,\" says Master McGrath.\n\nAnd Rose stood uncovered, the great English pride,<br>\nHer master and keeper were close by her side;<br>\nThey have let her away and the crowd cried \"Hurrah!\"<br>\nFor the pride of all England – and Master McGrath.\n\nAs Rose and the Master they both ran along,<br>\n\"Now I wonder,\" says Rose, \"what took you from your home;<br>\nYou should have stayed there in your Irish domain,<br>\nAnd not come to gain laurels on Albion's plain.\"\n\n\"Well, I know,\" says McGrath, \"we have wild heather bogs<br>\nBut you'll find in old Ireland there's good men and dogs.<br>\nLead on, bold Britannia, give none of your jaw,<br>\nStuff that up your nostrils,\" says Master McGrath.\n\nThen the hare she went on just as swift as the wind<br>\nHe was sometimes before her and sometimes behind.<br>\nRose gave the first turn according to law;<br>\nBut the second was given by Master McGrath.\n\nThe hare she led on with a wonderful view.<br>\nAnd swift as the wind o'er the green field she flew.<br>\nBut he jumped on her back and he held up his paw<br>\n\"Three cheers for old Ireland,\" says Master McGrath.\n\nI've known many greyhounds that filled me with pride,<br>\nIn the days that are gone, but it can't be denied,<br>\nThat the greatest and the bravest that the world ever saw,<br> \nWas our champion of champions, great Master McGrath.\n\nThere was also a tune; \"The Master McGrath Gallop\" by H. R. Callcott R.A.M. (Composer of The Massereene Waltzes)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46789752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46789752", "title": "Melchisedek Tsouderos", "text": "Melchisedek Tsouderos\n\nMelchisedek Tsouderos (; 1769-1823) was a Greek monk and fighter of the Greek War of Independence from Crete. He was killed in 1823 in a battle with the Ottoman forces.\n\nHe was born in 1769. His name was Michael and he had origins from the historic Tsouderos family. He was the third son of Emmanouil Tsouderos and had three more brothers named Georgios, Ioannis and Nikolaos. In 1810 he became a monk with the monastic name Melchisedek in Preveli Monastery, which had conceded properties of his family. Around the 1817 he became abbot of the monastery acquiring the nickname \"Tsouderogoumenos\" (\"Abbot Tsouderos\"). During the pre-revolutionary period he was initiated into the Filiki Eteria by a monk of Agia Lavra.\n\nDuring May 1821, as the Greek Revolution had broken out in mainland Greece, an Ottoman-Cretan officer tried to arrest him, but he was informed by another Ottoman-Cretan and fled to Asomatos in the Rethymno region. From there, he moved with his brothers Georgios and Ioannis to Kallikratis and then he went along with an armed force to the monastery, which in the meantime had been destroyed and looted by the Ottomans. On the 24th of the same month, he attended the official declaration of the Revolution in Crete in Kourkoulo Rodakinou.\n\nOn 13 June he participated in a battle on the hill of Agios Ioannis where a force of 600 Ottomans had camped. The surprise was absolute and the Ottomans suffered many losses – among the dead was their leader, the Ottoman-Cretan Ismail Agha or Psaraosmailis – and they retreated while the rebels took over a number of villages. Two days later, his men prevailed in a new battle with enemy forces in Spili. From the Ottoman side, among the dead was Deli Mustafa, who was captured and later executed.\n\nIn May 1822 Tsouderos participated in the Third Assembly of the Cretans, in Armenoi in Chania. He even took caregiver tasks under the command of the general prefect of Crete Michail Komninos Afentoulief. He was killed in Polemarchi in Chania, on 3 February 1823, during the operations of the revolutionaries to capture the Kissamos Tower where the Ottoman forces were barricaded.\n"}
{"id": "615558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615558", "title": "Migrant deaths along the Mexico–United States border", "text": "Migrant deaths along the Mexico–United States border\n\nMigrant deaths along the Mexico–U.S. border occur hundreds of times a year because of those attempting to cross into the United States from Mexico illegally. The US Border Patrol reported 294 migrant deaths in the fiscal year 2017 (ending September 30, 2017), which was lower than in 2016 (322), and any year during the period 2003-2014. The highest number of deaths reported over the period 1998-2016 were the 492 deaths reported by the Border Patrol in 2005. Exposure (including heat stroke, dehydration, and hyperthermia) were the leading cause.\n\nThe group Border Angels estimates that since 1994, about 10,000 people have died in their attempt to cross the increasingly militarized border. According to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 7,216 people have died crossing the U.S–Mexico border between 1998 and 2017. In 2005, more than 500 died across the entire U.S.–Mexico border. The number of yearly border crossing deaths doubled from 1995 to 2005, before declining. The statistics reflect only known deaths and do not include those who have never been found.\n\nMexico's Secretariat of Foreign Affairs has compiled data including deaths on the Mexican side of the border area during the period from 1994 to 2000. The data shows 87 deaths in 1996, 149 in 1997, 329 in 1998, 358 in 1999, and 499 in 2000.\n\nU.S. Border Patrol reported that 3,221 migrants were rescued in the fiscal year 2017.\n\nThe \"Arizona Daily Star\" maintained a database of border deaths recorded by the Pima, Santa Cruz, Cochise, and Yuma County medical examiners between summer 2004 and September 2006. They stated, \"With no official record-keeping system, the exact number of illegal entrants who have died along the Arizona stretch of U.S-Mexican border has never been known\".\n\nThe number of dead border crossing migrants per year in Arizona increased from nine in 1990 to 201 in 2005; about 80% of the dead migrants were under 40 during 2000–2005, with an increasing number younger than 18.\n\nA study by the Center for Immigration Research at the University of Houston found that, \"In the late 1980s, the number of foreign transient deaths usually exceeded 300, and peaked in 1988 at 355. Thereafter, the number of deaths fell to 180 in 1993 and 1994. After 1994 the number of deaths started to increase again, peaking in 2000 at 370. Border Patrol counts for 2001 and 2002 show a small decrease in the number of deaths in those years compared to 2000.\"\n\nThe number of deaths of illegal immigrants along the border has increased on a regular, yearly basis since the middle 1990s, particularly in the state of Arizona. As of summer 2006, tighter enforcement in Arizona has likely led to fewer deaths there, but border wide fatalities were approaching the record pace of 2005.\n\nIn 2012, the United States Border Patrol found the remains of 463 migrants in the U.S., of which 177 were discovered along the section of the border near Tucson, Arizona. The Rio Grande Valley of South Texas reported 150 migrant remains found, a jump from 2011 due to the increased numbers of Central American migrants.\n\nHyperthermia is one of the most common causes of migrant border deaths.\n\nA common cause of immigrant border deaths is drowning in canals, ditches, and the Rio Grande.\n\nSignificant numbers of illegal immigrants die in car accidents and other accidental causes. According to a December 2006 cover story in the \"San Diego Reader\", \"...traffic fatalities involving immigrants have more than doubled since 2003 as \"coyotes,\" or \"polleros\" – the guides leading migrants across the border – try other methods. On August 7, nine migrants died in a crash in the Yuma sector when the driver of a Chevrolet Suburban – in which 21 Mexicans were \"stacked like cordwood – lost control after crossing a Border Patrol spike strip at high speed. This year the number killed in traffic accidents during illegal crossings is about 50.\"\n\nIn January 2003, two illegal immigrant passengers died when their truck crashed on Interstate 8 while fleeing the Border Patrol, after a spike strip punctured a tire. A week after the accident, a third person, Elvia Rumbo Leyva, died in the hospital.\n\nClose to one hundred illegal immigrants were struck and killed on San Diego County freeways over a five-year span in the late 1980s, prompting the creation of a highway safety sign to caution drivers about migrants crossing the road.\n\nAccording to Rodolfo Acuña, Professor Emeritus of Chicano Studies at California State University, \"Mexico's Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported 117 cases of human rights abuses by US officials against migrants from 1988 to 1990, including fourteen deaths. During the 1980s, Border Patrol agents shot dozens of people, killing eleven and permanently disabling ten.\"\n\nOn May 28, 1994, Martín García Martínez was shot by a Border Patrol agent at the San Ysidro port of entry. He died on July 3 as a result of his injuries.\n\nIn May 2000, an illegal immigrant was shot in the shoulder by a border patrolman near Brownsville, Texas, and died later from the wounds.\n\nIn January 2006, an eight-year veteran of the Border Patrol, fearful of stones which were being thrown at him shot Guillermo Martinez Rodriguez, a known people smuggler who had been detained 11 times prior. Rodriguez, with a gunshot to the back of his right shoulder, crossed back to Mexico and was taken to the Red Cross in Tijuana where he died twenty-five and a half hours later from the injury. Under the Border Patrol's use-of-force guidelines, agents are permitted to employ lethal force against rock throwers if they pose a threat. Large rocks have seriously injured many agents and many agents have resorted to wearing riot gear as a result.\n\nIn January 2007, border patrol agent Nicholas Corbett shot and killed Francisco Javier Domínguez Rivera. after the latter tried to smash his head with a rock according to the officer's lawyer. After the agent was acquitted of wrongdoing, a civil suit was filed on behalf of Rivera's parents. This civil suit claimed that the United States government was responsible for wrongful death of Rivera due to the fact that the agent was performing his official duty. Mexico lodged an official protest with the United States over the death stating its \"firm condemnation\" and \"serious concern over the recurrence of this type of incident.\" The protest demanded an exhaustive investigation. Though the incident was recorded by surveillance cameras, the recording was not very clear.\n\nOn May 28, 2010, Anastasio Rojas, a 42-year-old Mexican migrant worker, was tased and beaten at the San Ysidro border crossing by more than a dozen Customs and Border Protection officers. Rojas' death was featured on the PBS News Magazine \"Need to Know\" in April 2012, in which several civilian eyewitnesses gave their testimony and provided two amateur videos of the event. According to the witnesses, he was facedown on the ground and handcuffed while he was being tased and beaten, all the while being surrounded by twelve officers. His pleas for help is clearly audible on the amateur footage. In the hours before Rojas' death, he had tried to file a complaint against a Border Patrol officer for kicking his injured ankle, that officer and another officer would later drive Rojas to the border alone at night, soon after Rojas sustained fatal injuries. Since the initial broadcast of \"Need to Know\", 16 members of congress have demanded a justice department investigation into Anastasio Rojas' death while in Border Patrol's custody, which is currently under way. He leaves behind a wife and five children.\n\nOn June 2010, a 15-year-old Mexican citizen was shot to death on the Mexican side of the border near El Paso, Texas. The U.S. Border Patrol reported that the officers responded to a group of suspected illegal immigrants who were throwing rocks at them. President Felipe Calderón criticized the shooting by stating that \"the use of firearms to repel attacks with stones represents disproportionate use of force\".\n\nAccording to \"Time\" Magazine, in the first half of 2000, three immigrants were killed and seven others wounded in showdowns on the U.S. side of the border.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations opened an investigation into vigilante killings of migrants crossing Mexico's border with the U.S., dispatching a senior UN investigator to the border country close to where Sam Blackwood, a 74-year-old rancher, was charged with killing Eusebio de Haro, an unarmed Mexican he tried to subdue for the border patrol and fatally shot in the back of the thigh after pursuing him a quarter mile down the road in his truck.\n\nOn February 8, 2007, four gunmen of unknown nationality opened fire on a truck carrying illegal immigrants in the Ironwood Forest National Monument, killing two men and a 15-year-old girl.\n\nThe impact of migrant deaths on border communities can be difficult for small towns on the U.S. side, which have found themselves with hundreds of remains to identify and bury, at a cost of hundreds of thousands of dollars. In November 2013, the Office of the Medical Examiner in Pima County, Arizona, had 871 cases of unidentified remains dating as far back as the 1990s. Relief groups often aid migrants traveling along the border. A Mexican federal task force known as Grupos Betas protects migrants from crime while the migrants make the journey north. Other groups such as 'No More Deaths' provide migrants with humanitarian assistance and members participate in 'desert runs' to search for migrants in need of help.\n\nThe deaths have caused tension between the United States and other countries, particularly Mexico and the countries of Central America, from where a majority of illegal immigrants that enter the United States through the Southwestern borders come. Foreign consulates across the Southwest United States, in particular those of Latin American countries, have condemned the deaths of illegal immigrants across the border.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2748112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2748112", "title": "Murder of Diane and Alan Scott Johnson", "text": "Murder of Diane and Alan Scott Johnson\n\nThe murder of Diane and Alan Scott Johnson occurred on September 2, 2003. They were shot to death in their Bellevue, Idaho, home by their 16-year-old daughter Sarah Marie Johnson.\n\nSarah Marie Johnson was born January 24, 1987. She grew up in the Idaho city of Bellevue, and attended Wood River High School in Hailey.\n\nOn September 2, 2003, Alan Scott Johnson and Diane Johnson were shot to death in their Bellevue, Idaho, home. Alan was shot twice in the chest, while Diane was shot in the head. Their daughter, Sarah Johnson, was found guilty of their murder. Sarah was 16 years old at the time. Her apparent motive was her parents' prohibiting her from dating 19-year-old Bruno Santos.\n\nAt approximately 6:20 am on September 2, 2003, Johnson took the murder weapon, a Winchester rifle from the guest house. The tenant of the house had left for Boise, Idaho, and had not planned on returning for a week or so. She then walked into her parents' bedroom and shot her sleeping mother in the head, whereupon she walked into the bathroom and shot her father in the chest, right above the heart, while he was showering. DNA evidence was presented at trial from a discarded bathrobe and a latex glove that police found in the garbage can in front of the house. It contained the DNA of both victims and Sarah. Along with the robe and latex glove was a leather glove that had gunshot residue on it. In Johnson's bedroom investigators located the other leather glove that belonged to the pair.\n\nJohnson was found guilty of the murders of her parents by an Ada County, Idaho, jury on March 16, 2005. She was sentenced to two concurrent life terms plus fifteen years for a firearm enhancement. The Idaho Supreme Court upheld her conviction.\n\nIn 2012, Johnson's lawyer filed petition for a new trial, charging that she had ineffective legal counsel in the murder trial. In October 2014, the request was denied.\n\nThe case has been featured on Discovery ID's \"Solved\" series and \"Deadly Women\" series, the \"Suburban Secrets\" documentary show, the Spike TV reality show \"Murder\", \"Snapped\" on the Oxygen Network and ABC's \"Primetime: Crime\" (edited into an episode of Investigation Discovery's 20/20 on ID in 2014). \n\nThis case also appeared on an episode of \"Forensic Files\" on TruTV and on E!'s \"Too Young to Kill: 15 Shocking Crimes\" at #9. This case was also featured in episode #067 of the podcast \"Small Town Murder.\"Her story also appears in episode 19 of the Netflix series Killer Women.\n\n"}
{"id": "24609236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24609236", "title": "Murder of Melanie Hall", "text": "Murder of Melanie Hall\n\nMelanie Hall (20 August 1970 – disappeared 9 June 1996; declared legally dead 17 November 2004) was a British hospital clerical officer from Bradford on Avon, who disappeared on 9 June 1996, following a night out at the Cadillacs nightclub in Bath. It was not until 5 October 2009 that her partial remains were discovered, after a plastic bin bag containing human bones was located by a workman on the M5 motorway near Thornbury, South Gloucestershire. The bones, which included a pelvis, thigh bone and skull, were analysed and identified as belonging to Melanie Hall on 7 October 2009. It was determined that Hall had suffered severe fractures to her skull and face, and had been tied up with rope, although a definitive cause of death could not be established. Over the years, various people have been arrested but subsequently released.\n\nHall was described by her parents as a \"young, vibrant daughter\". She had graduated from the University of Bath in 1995, Hall's mother, Pat Hall, said graduation had been a \"cherished\" dream of Melanie's for four years. Melanie Hall worked as a clerical officer at Bath's Royal United Hospital. Her father, Stephen Hall, has served Bath City Football Club as a chairman.\n\nHall had arranged to stay with her boyfriend Philip Karlbaum on 8 June and her mother dropped her off at his home. On the night of 8 June 1996 Hall went to Cadillacs nightclub in Bath with Karlbaum and another couple. Hall was reported as having had an argument with Karlbaum, and he left the club \"upset\" after he allegedly saw her dancing with another man. Hall was last seen sitting on a stool in the club at around 1.10am on 9 June 1996. She was reported missing on 11 June 1996 by her parents after she failed to turn up for work.\n\nKarlbaum described his devastation at her disappearance on 17 June 1996. Avon and Somerset police launched several searches of the River Avon after her disappearance and interviewed thousands of clubbers and taxi drivers. A £10,000 reward was offered for information, the BBC show \"Crimewatch\" and \"Crimestoppers\" both made appeals to the public for information, as did Hall's sister Dominique, but no trace of Hall was found.\n\nHall was declared legally dead on 17 November 2004.\n\nOn 5 October 2009, a motorway worker found a plastic bin bag containing bones while he was clearing a vegetation patch on a slip road at Junction 14 of the M5 motorway. The bones in the bag included a skull, pelvis and thigh bone and further remains were found buried and spread around the field by the side of the motorway. Police confirmed that the remains were human, and they showed a piece of jewellery found at the site to Mr and Mrs Hall, who confirmed that it had belonged to their daughter. Despite this, police refused to confirm that the body was that of Miss Hall until a post-mortem had been carried out. The remains were formally identified as being Hall's through dental records on 7 October. She had incurred severe blunt trauma to her head resulting in a fractured skull, cheekbone and jaw. Hall had also been tied up with a blue rope.\n\nHall's parents launched a fresh appeal on 8 October for anyone with information to come forward, while Avon and Somerset CID DS Mike Britton stated that he was staying on after his retirement to continue working on the Hall disappearance, codenamed Operation Denmark, having spent 13 years on the case. On 29 October 2009, police announced that three keys to a Ford vehicle, possibly a Transit, Fiesta or Escort had been found near the body, and that they were working with Ford to try to identify the vehicle. \"Crimewatch\" also launched a fresh appeal for information, which resulted in more than 200 phone calls from the public. The reward for information leading to arrest was also increased to £20,000.\n\nIn 2003, police arrested two men in connection with Hall's disappearance but they were released without charge after police searched buildings and a field near Bath. In 2009, a 37-year-old man confessed his involvement in Hall's murder to police in Greater Manchester, but was eliminated from the inquiry after undergoing psychiatric tests. In July 2010, a 38-year-old man from Bath was arrested on suspicion of Hall's murder and subsequently released on bail. In August 2010, a 39-year-old man from Wiltshire was arrested by police on suspicion of murder after handing himself in at a police station in the Avon and Somerset area. The man was subsequently released on bail.\n\nIn October 2013, police said that they had found a white Volkswagen Golf car connected to their inquiries, and had received relevant information about the rope used to tie up Hall's body. On 25 November 2013, it was reported that a 44-year-old man had been arrested at an address in Bath, on suspicion of murder. The man was released on bail until 19 December, and a property at Roundhill Park, Whiteway, was searched. On 28 November 2014 it was reported that there was insufficient evidence to charge the suspect. On 23 June 2016, a 45-year-old man was arrested following retrieval of DNA from where Hall's remains were discovered, and released on bail a few days later.\n\nPolice have not ruled out links with the murder of estate agent Suzy Lamplugh (who disappeared in July 1986 and whose body has never been found) and the case of a serial sex attacker in Bath, nicknamed the \"Batman rapist\" after he left a baseball cap bearing a \"Batman\" logo at the scene of one attack. The unknown assailant is known to have attempted to carjack a woman at knifepoint, leaving her wounded when she fought back and managed to escape, in the same area of the city a few hours before Hall was abducted. It has also been suggested that there may be a link between Hall's murder and Levi Bellfield, who is serving life imprisonment with a whole life order for three murders committed between 2002 and 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49293529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49293529", "title": "Natural resistance-associated macrophage protein", "text": "Natural resistance-associated macrophage protein\n\nNatural resistance-associated macrophage proteins (NRAMPs) are members of the metal ion (Mn-iron) transporter family (TC# 2.A.55). The NRAMP family is a member of the large APC Superfamily of secondary carriers. Homologues of this family are found in various yeasts, plants, animals, archaea, and Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria termed \"natural resistance-associated\" macrophage proteins because one of the animal homologues plays a role in resistance to intracellular bacterial pathogens such as \"Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium\", \"Leishmania donovani\" and \"Mycobacterium bovis\". The natural history of \"SLC11\" genes in vertebrates has been discussed by Neves et al. (2011). Proposed to be a distant member of the APC Superfamily, several human pathologies may result from defects in NRAMP-dependent Fe or Mn transport, including iron overload, neurodegenerative diseases and innate susceptibility to infectious diseases.\n\nHumans and rodents possess two distinct NRAMPs. The broad specificity NRAMP2 (DMT1), which transports a range of divalent metal cations, transports Fe and H with a 1:1 stoichiometry and apparent affinities of 6 μm and about 1 μm, respectively. Variable H:Fe stoichiometry has also been reported. The order of substrate preference for NRAMP2 is:\n\nFe> Zn> Mn> Co> Ca> Cu> Ni> Pb\n\nMany of these ions can inhibit iron absorption. Mutation of NRAMP2 in rodents leads to defective endosomal iron export within the ferritin cycle, impaired intestinal iron absorption and microcytic anemia. Symptoms of Mn deficiency are also seen. It is found in apical membranes of intestinal epithelial cells but also in late endosomes and lysosomes.\n\nIn contrast to the widely expressed NRAMP2, NRAMP1 is expressed primarily in macrophages and monocytes and appears to have a preference for Mn rather than Fe. NRAMP1 (TC# 2.A.55.2.3) has been reported to function by metal:H antiport. It is hypothesized that a deficiency for Mn or some other metal prevents the generation of reactive oxygenic and nitrogenic compounds that are used by macrophage to combat pathogens. This hypothesis is supported by studies on the bacterial NRAMP homologues which exhibit extremely high selectivity for Mn over Fe, Zn and other divalent cations. Regulation of these transporters in bacteria can occur through Fur, OxyR, and most commonly a DtxR homolog, MntR.\n\nThe Smf1 protein of \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" appears to catalyze high-affinity (\"K\" = 0.3 μm) Mn uptake while the closely related Smf2 protein may catalyze low affinity (\"K\" = 60 μm) Mn uptake in the same organism. Both proteins also mediate H-dependent Fe uptake. These proteins are of 575 and 549 amino acyl residues in length and are predicted to have 8-12 transmembrane α-helical spanners. The \"E. coli\" homologue of 412 aas exhibits 11 putative and confirmed TMSs with the N-terminus in and the C-terminus out. The yeast proteins may be localized to the vacuole and/or the plasma membrane of the yeast cell. Indirect and some direct experiments suggest that they may be able to transport several heavy metals including Mn, Cu, Cd and Co. A third yeast protein, Smf3p, appears to be exclusively intracellular, possibly in the Golgi. NRAMP2 (\"Slc11A2\") of Homo sapiens (TC# 2.A.55.2.1) has a 12 TMS topology with intracellular N- and C-termini. Two-fold structural symmetry in the arrangement of membrane helices for TM1-5 and TM6-10 (conserved Slc2 hydrophobic core) is suggested.\n\nThe generalized transport reaction catalyzed by NRAMP family proteins is:\n\nMe (out) + H (out) ⇌ Me (in) + H (in).\n\n"}
{"id": "61032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61032", "title": "Rationality", "text": "Rationality\n\nRationality is the quality or state of being rational – that is, being based on or agreeable to reason. Rationality implies the conformity of one's beliefs with one's reasons to believe, and of one's actions with one's reasons for action. \"Rationality\" has different specialized meanings in philosophy, economics, sociology, psychology, evolutionary biology, game theory and political science.\n\nTo determine what behavior is the most rational, one needs to make several key assumptions, and also needs a logical formulation of the problem. When the goal or problem involves making a decision, rationality factors in all information that is available (e.g. complete or incomplete knowledge). Collectively, the formulation and background assumptions are the model within which rationality applies. Rationality is relative: if one accepts a model in which benefitting oneself is optimal, then rationality is equated with behavior that is self-interested to the point of being selfish; whereas if one accepts a model in which benefiting the group is optimal, then purely selfish behavior is deemed irrational. It is thus meaningless to assert rationality without also specifying the background model assumptions describing how the problem is framed and formulated.\n\nThe German sociologist Max Weber proposed an interpretation of social action that distinguished between four different idealized types of rationality. The first, which he called \"Zweckrational\" or purposive/instrumental rationality, is related to the expectations about the behavior of other human beings or objects in the environment. These expectations serve as means for a particular actor to attain ends, ends which Weber noted were \"rationally pursued and calculated.\" The second type, Weber called \"Wertrational\" or value/belief-oriented. Here the action is undertaken for what one might call reasons intrinsic to the actor: some ethical, aesthetic, religious or other motive, independent of whether it will lead to success. The third type was affectual, determined by an actor's specific affect, feeling, or emotion—to which Weber himself said that this was a kind of rationality that was on the borderline of what he considered \"meaningfully oriented.\" The fourth was traditional or conventional, determined by ingrained habituation. Weber emphasized that it was very unusual to find only one of these orientations: combinations were the norm. His usage also makes clear that he considered the first two as more significant than the others, and it is arguable that the third and fourth are subtypes of the first two.\n\nThe advantage in Weber's interpretation of rationality is that it avoids a value-laden assessment, say, that certain kinds of beliefs are irrational. Instead, Weber suggests that a ground or motive can be given—for religious or affect reasons, for example—that may meet the criterion of explanation or justification even if it is not an explanation that fits the \"Zweckrational\" orientation of means and ends. The opposite is therefore also true: some means-ends explanations will not satisfy those whose grounds for action are \"Wertrational\".\n\nWeber's constructions of rationality have been critiqued both from a Habermasian (1984) perspective (as devoid of social context and under-theorised in terms of social power) and also from a feminist perspective (Eagleton, 2003) whereby Weber's rationality constructs are viewed as imbued with masculine values and oriented toward the maintenance of male power. An alternative position on rationality (which includes both bounded rationality, as well as the affective and value-based arguments of Weber) can be found in the critique of Etzioni (1988), who reframes thought on decision-making to argue for a reversal of the position put forward by Weber. Etzioni illustrates how purposive/instrumental reasoning is subordinated by normative considerations (ideas on how people 'ought' to behave) and affective considerations (as a support system for the development of human relationships).\n\nIn the psychology of reasoning, psychologists and cognitive scientists have defended different positions on human rationality. One prominent view, due to Philip Johnson-Laird and Ruth M. J. Byrne among others is that humans are rational in principle but they err in practice, that is, humans have the competence to be rational but their performance is limited by various factors. However, it has been argued that many standard tests of reasoning, such as those on the conjunction fallacy, on the Wason selection task, or the base rate fallacy suffer from methodological and conceptual problems. This has led to disputes in psychology over whether researchers should (only) use standard rules of logic, probability theory and statistics, or rational choice theory as norms of good reasoning. Opponents of this view, such as Gerd Gigerenzer, favor a conception of bounded rationality, especially for tasks under high uncertainty.\n\nRichard Brandt proposed a \"reforming definition\" of rationality, arguing someone is rational if their notions survive a form of cognitive-psychotherapy.\n\nAbulof argues that rationality has become an \"essentially contested concept,\" as its \"proper use… inevitably involves endless disputes.\" He identifies \"four fronts\" for the disputes about the meaning of rationality: \n\nIt is believed by some philosophers (notably A. C. Grayling) that a good rationale must be independent of emotions, personal feelings or any kind of instincts. Any process of evaluation or analysis, that may be called rational, is expected to be highly objective, logical and \"mechanical\". If these minimum requirements are not satisfied i.e. if a person has been, even slightly, influenced by personal emotions, feelings, instincts, or culturally specific moral codes and norms, then the analysis may be termed irrational, due to the injection of subjective bias.\n\nModern cognitive science and neuroscience show that studying the role of emotion in mental function (including topics ranging from flashes of scientific insight to making future plans), that no human has ever satisfied this criterion, except perhaps a person with no affective feelings, for example an individual with a massively damaged amygdala or severe psychopathy. Thus, such an idealized form of rationality is best exemplified by computers, and not people. However, scholars may productively appeal to the idealization as a point of reference. \n\nKant had distinguished theoretical from practical reason. Rationality theorist Jesús Mosterín makes a parallel distinction between theoretical and practical rationality, although, according to him, reason and rationality are not the same: reason would be a psychological faculty, whereas rationality is an optimizing strategy. Humans are not rational by definition, but they can think and behave rationally or not, depending on whether they apply, explicitly or implicitly, the strategy of theoretical and practical rationality to the thoughts they accept and to the actions they perform.\n\nThe distinction is also described as that between epistemic rationality, the attempt to form beliefs in an unbiased manner, and instrumental rationality.\n\nTheoretical rationality has a formal component that reduces to logical consistency and a material component that reduces to empirical support, relying on our inborn mechanisms of signal detection and interpretation. Mosterín distinguishes between involuntary and implicit belief, on the one hand, and voluntary and explicit acceptance, on the other. Theoretical rationality can more properly be said to regulate our acceptances than our beliefs. Practical rationality is the strategy for living one’s best possible life, achieving your most important goals and your own preferences in as far as possible.\n\nAs the study of arguments that are correct in virtue of their form, logic is of fundamental importance in the study of rationality. The study of rationality in logic is more concerned with epistemic rationality, that is, attaining beliefs in a rational manner, than instrumental rationality.\n\nRationality plays a key role and there are several strands to this. Firstly, there is the concept of instrumentality—basically the idea that people and organisations are instrumentally rational—that is, adopt the best actions to achieve their goals. Secondly, there is an axiomatic concept that rationality is a matter of being logically consistent within your preferences and beliefs. Thirdly, people have focused on accuracy of beliefs and full use of information—in this view a person who is not rational has beliefs that don't fully use the information they have.\n\nDebates within economic sociology also arise as to whether or not people or organizations are \"really\" rational, as well as whether it makes sense to model them as such in formal models. Some have argued that a kind of bounded rationality makes more sense for such models.\n\nOthers think that any kind of rationality along the lines of rational choice theory is a useless concept for understanding human behavior; the term \"homo economicus\" (economic man: the imaginary man being assumed in economic models who is logically consistent but amoral) was coined largely in honor of this view. Behavioral economics aims to account for economic actors as they actually are, allowing for psychological biases, rather than assuming idealized instrumental rationality.\n\nWithin artificial intelligence, a \"rational agent\" is typically one that maximizes its expected utility, given its current knowledge. Utility is the usefulness of the consequences of its actions. The utility function is arbitrarily defined by the designer, but should be a function of \"performance\", which is the directly measurable consequences, such as winning or losing money. In order to make a safe agent that plays defensively, a nonlinear function of performance is often desired, so that the reward for winning is lower than the punishment for losing. An agent might be rational within its own problem area, but finding the rational decision for arbitrarily complex problems is not practically possible. The rationality of human thought is a key problem in the psychology of reasoning.\n\nThere is an ongoing debate over the merits of using “rationality” in the study of international relations (IR). Some scholars hold it indispensable. Others are more critical. Still, the pervasive and persistent usage of \"rationality\" in political science and IR is beyond dispute. \"Rationality\" remains ubiquitous in this field. Abulof finds that Some 40% of all scholarly references to \"foreign policy\" allude to \"rationality\"—and this ratio goes up to more than half of pertinent academic publications in the 2000s. He further argues that when it comes to concrete security and foreign policies, IR employment of rationality borders on \"malpractice\": rationality-based descriptions are largely either false or unfalsifiable; many observers fail to explicate the meaning of \"rationality\" they employ; and the concept is frequently used politically to distinguish between \"us and them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57408363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57408363", "title": "Reda Aadel", "text": "Reda Aadel\n\nReda Aadel (born 28 December 1990) is a Moroccan cyclist.\n"}
{"id": "26433558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26433558", "title": "Rob (dog)", "text": "Rob (dog)\n\nRob (1939 – 18 January 1952) was a Collie dog who in February 1945 was awarded the Dickin Medal. considered to be the animals' Victoria Cross. He was alleged to have made over 20 parachute descents during the North African Campaign, serving with the SAS. However, in 2006, his actions were revealed as being a possible hoax perpetrated by members of his regiment in order to prevent Rob leaving after his original owners requested his return.\n\nRob was a working dog on a farm in Shropshire until 1942, when his owners, Basil and Heather Bayne, enlisted him as a war dog. Assigned to the Special Air Service at the base in Wivenhoe Park, Essex, Rob's official designation was war dog No 471/322. He was used as a messenger and a guard dog.\n\nRob received his medal in London on 3 February 1945. The citation read \"For service including 20 parachute jumps while serving with Infantry in North Africa and SAS Regiment in Italy.\" Rob won other medals for bravery, including an RSPCA silver medal. The Dickin Medal is often referred to as the animal metaphorical equivalent of the Victoria Cross.\n\nAccording to Quentin Hughes' autobiographical account of his time in the 2nd SAS, \"Who Cares Who Wins?\", the actions which led to Rob's Dickin Medal were in fact a hoax. He reported that instead of completing parachute drops as reported, the dog acted as a companion to the regiment quartermaster, Tom Burt.\nLll\nHughes wrote that when hearing that the family which donated Rob to the Army Veterinary and Remount Services had requested the dog back, he and Burt worked together to keep Rob by exaggerating his exploits. At one point they attempted to carry out a parachute jump with Rob but weather conditions were unfavourable and they could not follow through with the jump as Hughes wrote, \"We had a suitable parachute harness and I phoned through to the RAF and made arrangements for Rob to have a short flight, unfortunately, quite a strong wind blew up during the flight and the RAF decided it would be dangerous to drop Rob on that day.\" They had to send a letter to his owners following the successful drop, and after the failure decided to send it anyway. Rob's owners passed the letter about the dog's actions to the PDSA, resulting in Rob's Dickin Medal in January 1945. Although Hughes died in 2004, the possibility of a hoax wasn't revealed until 2006 when a painting of Rob was featured in an exhibition entitled \"The Animals War\" at the Imperial War Museum in London. According to Hughes' friend Mickey King, who remembered the author discussing the incident, \"Quentin said that nobody survived 20 parachute drops, let alone a dog. You were lucky to survive three.\"\n\nFollowing his military service, he returned to his owners in Tetchill, Shropshire. He died in 1952 and was buried on the family farm, marked with a stone memorial which reads: \n\nA children's book has been written about Rob, entitled \"Rob the Paradog\", written by Dorothy Nicholle and published by Blue Hills Press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "637475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637475", "title": "Rogneda of Polotsk", "text": "Rogneda of Polotsk\n\nRogneda of Polotsk (962–1002) is the Slavic name for Ragnhild, was a Princess consort of Rus. She was the daughter of Ragnvald (Slavic: Rogvolod) came from Scandinavia and established himself at Polatsk in the mid-10th century. \n\nIt has been speculated that Rogneda belonged to the Ynglings royal family of Norway. In or about 980, Vladimir, on learning that she was betrothed to his half-brother Yaropolk I of Kiev, took Polotsk and forced Rogneda to marry him. Having raped Rogneda in the presence of her parents, he ordered them to be killed, along with two of Rogneda's brothers.\n\nRogneda gave him several children. The four sons were Yaroslav the Wise, Vsevolod, Mstislav of Chernigov, and Izyaslav of Polotsk. She also bore two daughters, one of whom is named by Nestor the Chronicler as Predslava (taken as a concubine of Boleslaus I of Poland, according to Gallus). A later chronicle tells a story, most likely taken from a Norse saga, of Rogneda plotting against Vladimir and asking her elder son, Izyaslav, to kill him. As was the Norse royal custom, she was sent with her elder son to govern the land of her parents, i.e. Polotsk. Izyaslav's line continued to rule Polotsk and the newly found town of Izyaslavl until the Mongol invasion.\n\nAfter Vladimir converted to Christianity and took Anna Porphyrogeneta as his wife, he had to divorce all his previous wives, including Rogneda. After that, she entered the convent and took the name Anastasia.\n\nAround 1825 Kondraty Ryleev wrote a narrative poem entitled \"Rogneda\". This poem became a literary source for her portrayal in the nationalist Russian opera \"Rogneda\" by Alexander Serov, which premiered in 1865.\n\n"}
{"id": "4986999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4986999", "title": "Shadow biosphere", "text": "Shadow biosphere\n\nA shadow biosphere is a hypothetical microbial biosphere of Earth that uses radically different biochemical and molecular processes than currently known life. Although life on Earth is relatively well-studied, the shadow biosphere may still remain unnoticed because the exploration of the microbial world targets primarily the biochemistry of the macro-organisms. The term was coined by Carol Cleland and Shelley Copley in 2005.\n\nIt has been proposed that the early Earth hosted multiple origins of life, some of which produced chemical variations on life as we know it. Steven A. Benner, Alonso Ricardo, and Matthew A. Carrigan, biochemists at the University of Florida, argued that if organisms based on RNA once existed, they might still be alive today, unnoticed because they do not contain ribosomes, which are usually used to detect living microorganisms. They suggest searching for them in environments that are low in sulfur, environments that are spatially constrained (for example, minerals with pores smaller than one micrometre), or environments that cycle between extreme hot and cold.\n\nOther proposed candidates for a shadow biosphere include organisms using different suites of amino acids in their proteins or different molecular units (e.g., bases or sugars) in their nucleic acids, having a chirality opposite of ours, using some of the non-standard amino acids, or using arsenic instead of phosphorus. Carol Cleland, a philosopher of science at the University of Colorado (Boulder), argues that desert varnish, whose status as living or nonliving has been debated since the time of Darwin, should be investigated as a potential candidate for a shadow biosphere.\n\nThe idea of a shadow biosphere is not widely accepted in biochemistry, and methods used by proponents and conclusions drawn from experiments that purport to show evidence of shadow biospheres have been criticized. For example, evidence that once seemed to support arsenic as a substitute for phosphorus in DNA could have resulted from lab or field contamination, and DNA that includes arsenic is chemically unstable.\n\n"}
{"id": "44083680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44083680", "title": "Smiley (alligator)", "text": "Smiley (alligator)\n\nSmiley () was an American alligator (\"Alligator mississippiensis\") that lived in captivity in the Maritime Museum of Gothenburg, Sweden. Smiley arrived in Gothenburg from the United States in 1924, at approximately the age of two, and died on 9 February 1987. She received the name \"Smiley\" in 1970 when the newspaper \"Expressen\" asked readers for appropriate names for the alligator. At the time of her death at the age of 65, she held the record of being the oldest living alligator in captivity, an honor that landed her a spot in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\". (There are, however, records of alligators that have lived longer since her death). At the time of her death Smiley weighed and measured , which is small for North American alligators (males can grow to a length and weight double that). Only after her death and necropsy did doctors establish that Smiley was a female.\n\nSmiley died after it was decided to turn down the heat in her pond to save money. As a result of the lower temperature, the alligator fell ill for two weeks.\n\nIn 1990, three years after Smiley's death, she was once again put on display, this time as a cast made by taxidermist Erling Haack for the Gothenburg Natural History Museum. The cast is made out of armored plaster painted with oil paint. The eyes were built with double lenses created by Hendén Optik AB. Smiley's physical remains are preserved in the museum's scientific collection, catalogued as number 17246.\n\nLike many other celebrities who worked and lived in Gothenburg, Smiley has a tram named after her, the M29 859 tram.\n"}
{"id": "37657327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37657327", "title": "Suicide in Sri Lanka", "text": "Suicide in Sri Lanka\n\nSuicide in Sri Lanka is a common cause of unnatural death and a long term social issue.\n\nAccording to a report published in a seminar by Dr. Neil Fernando, head of National Institute of Mental Health in September 2011, almost 4,000 people die by suicide in Sri Lanka every year. Fernando's statistics shows the majority of victims were aged 15 to 44.\nAccording to the statistics of Registrar General's office, at the time of independence (1948) suicide rate in Sri Lanka was 9 per 100,000 people. In the 1970s, it rose up to 19 per 100,000, and in the mid 1980s, it reached 33 per 100,000. The latest statistics for Sri Lanka show a suicide rate of 15 per 100,000 .\n\nCommon methods of suicide include:\n\n\nGlobal Health Estimates 2016: Deaths by Cause, Age Sex. Geneva, World Health Organization"}
{"id": "38320391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38320391", "title": "Transcendental humanism", "text": "Transcendental humanism\n\nTranscendental humanism in philosophy considers what is proper treatment of humans outside of nature and decides they have inherent rights, simply from being human. It is also positive that man is capable of transcending the material self and can also free himself from surrounding influences. An example of this is when he thinks about himself and his character traits as if two different people. Kant by the term meant humans are both a part of 'creation' and able to transcend reflexive obedience to the laws of nature.\n"}
{"id": "1026901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026901", "title": "University of Virginia Darden School of Business", "text": "University of Virginia Darden School of Business\n\nThe Darden School of Business is the graduate business school associated with the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia. The Darden School offers MBA, Ph.D. and Executive Education programs. The School was founded in 1955 and is named after Colgate Whitehead Darden, Jr., a former Democratic congressman, governor of Virginia, and former president of the University of Virginia. Darden is on the grounds of the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. The School is famous for being one of the most prominent business schools to use the case method as its primary method of teaching . The Dean of the school is former McKinsey & Company executive, Scott C. Beardsley.\n\nDesigned for students who seek to strengthen their leadership, business and communication skills, Darden’s two-year MBA program — ranked #1 in educational experience by \"Economist\" — combines core and elective courses in Charlottesville, Virginia with opportunities to study abroad.\n\nThe required curriculum in the First Year is designed to provide students with an integrated perspective on general management. Beginning in the final term of the First Year, the curriculum is made up entirely of electives to allow students to develop more depth in chosen areas of interest. Students may choose two from among the following optional concentrations:\nThe inaugural Executive Education program was offered in 1955. Darden Executive Education offers both short courses and custom solutions, as well as consortia, corporate university design and development, and industry specific partnerships. Short course focus areas include leadership, general management, strategy and decision-making, negotiation, growth and innovation, project management, sales and marketing, financial management and corporate aviation. Year-after-year these programs are ranked in the top five of the \"Financial Times\" annual survey.\n\nDarden’s doctoral program allows students to obtain a Ph.D. degree in management, specializing in either ethics, entrepreneurship, or leadership and organizational behavior. The program prepares individuals for careers in research and teaching at major universities and corporations.\n\nDarden is regularly ranked as being among the Top 15 business schools in the U.S. and Top 30 in the world. Its current rankings are as follows:\n\n\n\n\nDarden's list of alumni includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2075897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075897", "title": "Vibhishana", "text": "Vibhishana\n\nVibhishana (IAST: or Bibhishan) was a king of Lanka in the legendary epic Ramayana. He was younger brother of the Rakshasa king Ravana of Lanka . Though a Rakshasa himself, Vibhishana was of a noble character and advised Ravana, who kidnapped and abducted Sita, to return her to her husband Rama in an orderly fashion and promptly which Ravana refused sternly. When Ravana did not heed his advice, Vibhishana deserted Ravana and joined Rama's army. Later, when Rama defeated Ravana, Rama crowned Vibhishana as the king of Lanka.\n\nAnd return to Ayodhya\n\nIn some period of history Sinhala people have considered Vibhishana as one of the Four Heavenly Kings (\"satara varam deviyo\"). This belief was more prominent in the Kotte period. According to the \"Ravana Katha\" of Wickramasinghe Adigar, after the defeat of Ravana, Vibhishana transferred the Yaksha capital from Alakamandawa to Kelaniya. In the 15th century poem of Thotagamuwe Sri Rahula Thera, the \"sælalihini sandesaya\", Myna is ordered to carry the missive to Vibhishana at his temple in Kelaniya. After the 16th century, he was replaced as a God of the four warrants by the goddess Pattini. He continues to be worshipped by a diminishing number of adherents, mainly in the Kelaniya area.\n\nVibhishana had a sattvic (pure) mind and a sattvic heart. From his early childhood, he spent all his time meditating on the name of the Lord. Eventually, Brahma appeared and offered him any boon he wanted. Vibhishana, said that the only thing he wanted was to have his mind fixed at the feet of the Lord as pure as lotus leaves (charan kamal). He prayed that he should be given the strength by which he would always be at the feet of the Lord and that he would receive the darshan (holy sight) of Lord Vishnu. This prayer was fulfilled and he was able to give up all his wealth and family, and join Rama, who was Avatar (God incarnate).\n\nVibhishana was youngest son of Kaikesi and Sage Vishrava, who was son of Sage Pulatsya, one of the Heavenly Guardians. He (Vibhishana) was younger brother of the Lord of Lanka, Ravana and King of Sleep, Kumbakarna. Even though he was born in the demon race, he was alert and pious and considered himself a Brahmin, since his father was intuitively such.\n\nDue to Vibhishana's differences with Ravana because he was against the act of kidnapping Sita and most of all because Ravana wanted the throne for himself, he fled Lanka. His mother, Kaikesi, advised him to go and serve Shri Rama, who was at that time assembling an army to conquer Ravana and to recover Sita. He divulged the secrets of Ravana's army and made sure Rama ended up being victorious in the great battle. Lord Rama accepted Vibhishana's service and anointed him the Lord of Lanka after Ravana's death.\n\nIn the Lanka War, Vibhishana's knowledge about the secrets of Lanka proved invaluable to Shri Rama. Vibhishana freely divulged many secrets that became key to the success of Rama's attack, including revealing the secret path to the temple of Mata Nikumbala, the family deity of the Pulatsya Clan. In the climatic battle between Rama and Ravana, when Rama was unable to kill Ravana, he revealed the secret of Ravana's death to Rama. He told Rama that Ravana has stored the nectar of immortality in his belly and it is necessary to dry it. Rama then finally killed Ravana. \nWhile modern readers tend to view the Indian epics with eyes used to seeing clearly defined good and bad characters, Ramayana's characterisation is trying to represent the practical implications of the concept of Dharma. The epic stresses that neither Vibhishana or Kumbhakarna strayed from the path of Dharma and that there is no single way out of a moral dilemma. Ramayana teaches that Kumbhakarna adhered to the Dharma of loyalty to his kin when his advice fails, while Vibhishana chose to oppose his kin when his advice failed.\n\nSymbolically, Vibhishana represents devotion to Shri Rama and as a demon devotee, he shows that the Lord does not distinguish between his followers based on birth or circumstances in life. The same aught can be read in the story of Prahlada and Narasimha.\n\nWhen Vibhishana attained the position of the King of Lanka, he turned his subjects from the path of evil to the path of Dharma (righteousness). His wife, Queen Sarama also aided him in this effort. He had a daughter named AnalTe.\n\nWhen Rama was about to leave Ayodhya at the end of his reign, Lord Rama in his original form of Shri Vishnu ordered Vibhishana to stay on earth and serve the people and guide them to the path of truth and Dharma. Hence, Vibhishana is considered one of the seven immortals or Chiranjeevins. Lord Vishnu also ordered Vibhishana to pray the family deity of Rama's natal Sun Dynasty, Lord Ranganatha.\n\nVibishana is attached with the legend of Srirangam Ranganathaswamy temple, considered the abode of Vishnu on earth and the primary temple of Vishnu on earth. During the coronation of Rama, avatar of Vishnu, Vibishana was presented the sacrosanct Sri Ranga Vimana. He was carrying it all the way to his kingdom of Sri Lanka and midway, to rest, he placed the image on the banks of Kaveri. After performing his routine pooja, he tried to lift the Vimana, but it could not be lifted. Mahavishnu appeared to him and said that he desired to stay as Ranganatha in the place, which went on to become Srirangam. Vishnu also desired to watch the Brahmotsavam at Tirucherai. The festivals of the temple are thus considered sacred.\n"}
{"id": "43200397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43200397", "title": "Vladimir Gaćinović", "text": "Vladimir Gaćinović\n\nVladimir Gaćinović (; nicknamed \"Vlado\"; 25 May 1890 – 11 August 1917) was a Bosnian Serb essayist and revolutionary in Austria-Hungary. He was one of the leaders and organizers of the secret cells of the revolutionary movement, Young Bosnia.\n\nGaćinović was born in 1890 in the village of Kačanj within Bileća municipality, which was then administered by the Austro-Hungarian Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina (another source has his birthplace as Rudina village, also in Bileća). Gaćinović was the son of a Serbian Orthodox priest, who was also a hajduk. He completed elementary school in Bileća in 1901 and finished six grades of high school in Mostar between 1901 and 1907. The high school had been home to two secret societies since 1905, one of which, \"Matica\", was led by Dimitrije Mitrinović. When he was seventeen years old, Gaćinović was a member of the literary society which served as a front for \"Matica\", and published a critically noted essay about the raconteur Petar Kočić.\n\nAustria-Hungary's complete annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908 angered young revolutionaries active in that region. They rejected the conciliatory ideas of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk and his cultural struggle within the Austrian monarchy; instead, they embraced the notion of \"Kosovo tyrannicide\", à la Miloš Obilić, as a method of political struggle. Gaćinović was the actual ideologue of the revolutionary movement Young Bosnia, and was thus responsible for introducing the cult of tyrannicide. Bogdan Žerajić was the first to pursue this method in practice. When Franz Joseph I of Austria visited Bosnia and Herzegovina on 3 June 1910, Žerajić had intended to attempt his assassination during his passage through Mostar, but eventually gave up his plan for unknown reasons. Žerajić attempted to assassinate Austro-Hungarian governor Marijan Varešanin in Sarajevo a week later, but killed himself when the plot failed.\n\nGaćinović, who was personal friends with European socialists such as Victor Serge and Julius Martov, met Leon Trotsky by chance in Paris. His revolutionary zeal impressed Trotsky. From autumn 1910 to the summer of 1912, Gaćinović was a student at Vienna University. In his late teens, after visiting the Kingdom of Serbia, Gaćinović organized underground cells, \"kruzoks\", amongst Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Zagreb, and western Slavonia. In 1911, he became the only Young Bosnia leader to join Unification or Death, Dragutin Dimitrijević's secret society. In the same year, the term \"Mlada Bosna\" (Young Bosnia) was popularized in an article by Gaćinović, and modeled by him after Young Italy and Young Russia. In 1912, Gaćinović publicized a letter by one of his associates, with whom he fully agreed. Titled \"Cry of a Desperate One\" (), it attacked the younger generations, in particular students at foreign universities, for lack of idealism and opportunism, petty individualism, and conformity.\n\nDuring the First Balkan War, Gaćinović fought as a volunteer in the Montenegrin army. Upon his return to Bosnia, he instigated a plot to kill Oskar Potiorek, the Austrian Governor, in January 1914, but did not follow through with his own plan. Nevertheless, Gaćinović publicly condemned in his letters the subsequent assassination of Franz Ferdinand. According to some sources, this was merely an attempt to avoid prosecution for his involvement; however, other authors have it that Gaćinović was sincerely opposed to the assassination.\n\nDuring World War I, Gaćinović spent time as a volunteer in the French Navy, after which he traveled to the United States to seek aid and volunteers for Serbia. He was poisoned with arsenic in August 1917 in Fribourg, Switzerland, by either the Austrians, the French, the Serbian police, or by one of Serbia's rival political factions.\n"}
