{"id": "33257871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33257871", "title": "Ahmed al-Ghamdi", "text": "Ahmed al-Ghamdi\n\nAhmed Salah Said al-Ghamdi (, , also transliterated as Alghamdi) (July 2, 1979 – September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of United Airlines Flight 175 as part of the September 11 attacks.\n\nGhamdi was born in Saudi Arabia in 1979. He dropped out of school to fight in Chechnya and was probably sent to train in al-Qaeda camps in Afghanistan where he would be chosen by Osama bin Laden to participate in the terrorist attacks in America.\n\nHe arrived in the United States in May 2001 on a tourist visa and helped plan out how the attacks would take place. On September 11, 2001, he boarded United Airlines Flight 175 and assisted in the hijacking of the plane so that lead hijacker and trained pilot Marwan al-Shehhi could take over the plane and crash it into the South Tower of the World Trade Center, as part of the coordinated attacks.\n\nAn Imam, Ghamdi was from the al Bahah Province of Saudi Arabia, a province in the south west of Saudi Arabia. It is the capital of Al Bahah Province nestled between the resorts of Mecca and Abha, Al Bahah is one of the Kingdom’s prime tourist attractions. Ghamdi shared the same tribal affiliation with fellow hijackers Saeed al-Ghamdi, Hamza al-Ghamdi, and Ahmed al-Haznawi. This group is noted as being some of the more religiously observant of the hijackers, and they are thought to have met each other some time in 1999.\n\nKnown as \"al-Jaraah al-Ghamdi\" during the preparations, the only one of the hijackers to use a variation on his own name, Ghamdi quit school to fight in Chechnya against the Russians in 2000, and received a US Visa on September 3 of that year. In November, both he and Salem al-Hazmi flew to Beirut, though on separate flights and at different times. Ghamdi flew on the same flight as a senior Hezbollah operative, although the 9/11 Commission could find no evidence that either knew the other. His family claims to have last seen him in December.\n\nIn March 2001, Ghamdi is reported to have met with a Jordanian who has been charged with providing false identification to at least 50 illegal aliens. Hijackers Majed Moqed, Hani Hanjour, and Nawaf al-Hazmi are reported to have met with him at the same time. Inexplicably, this is more than a month before Ghamdi first arrived in the United States, according to the FBI and the 9/11 Commission.\n\nOn May 2, Ghamdi arrived in the U.S. with fellow-hijacker Moqed, on a student visa. He listed the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Florida as his permanent address on his driver's license. He and Moqed moved in with Hani Hanjour and Nawaf al-Hazmi in Falls Church, Virginia. All four later moved into an apartment in Paterson, New Jersey.\n\nHe called his parents in July 2001, but did not mention being in the United States.\n\nHamza al-Ghamdi purchased Ahmed's ticket online for United Airlines Flight 175 on August 29 or August 30, after buying his own. He listed a Mail Boxes Etc. address for Ahmed.\n\nHamza and Ahmed al-Ghamdi stayed at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts. On September 8, they checked out of the hotel, and moved into the Days Hotel on Soldiers Field Road in Brighton, where they remained up until the day of the attacks.\n\nOn the morning of September 11, 2001, Ahmed left the hotel with Hamza, the two of them sharing a taxicab to get to Logan International Airport. There, Ghamdi showed his Virginia ID Card as identification, and boarded Flight 175 where he sat the furthest back of the hijackers, in seat 9D, helped to hijack it, and assisted as the plane crashed into the World Trade Center. Ahmed and Hamza al-Ghamdi pushed the passengers and crew to the back of the plane while Fayez Banihammad and Mohand al-Shehri killed the pilots Victor Saracini and Michael Horrocks allowing Marwan al-Shehhi to take control of the plane.\n"}
{"id": "2634891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634891", "title": "Alastair Denniston", "text": "Alastair Denniston\n\nCommander Alexander \"Alastair\" Guthrie Denniston (1 December 1881 – 1 January 1961) was a British codebreaker in Room 40, first head of the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) and field hockey player. Denniston was appointed operational head of GC&CS in 1919 and remained so until February 1942.\n\nDenniston was born in Greenock, Renfrewshire, the son of a medical practitioner. He studied at the University of Bonn and the University of Paris. Denniston was a member of the Scottish Olympic field hockey team in 1908 and won a bronze medal.\n\nIn 1914 Denniston helped form Room 40 in the Admiralty, an organisation responsible for intercepting and decrypting enemy messages. In 1917 he married a fellow Room 40 worker, Dorothy Mary Gilliat.\n\nAfter First World War, Denniston, recognising the strategic importance of codebreaking, kept the Room 40 activity functioning. Room 40 was merged with its counterpart in the Army, MI1b in 1919, renamed the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) in 1920 and transferred from the Navy to the Foreign Office. Denniston was chosen to run the new organisation.\n\nWith the rise of Hitler, Denniston began making preparations. Following the practice of his superiors at Room 40, he contacted lecturers at Oxford and Cambridge (including Alan Turing and Gordon Welchman) asking if they would be willing to serve if war broke out. He chose Bletchley as the location for the codebreaking effort because it was at a rail junction on a main line north of London with good rail connections to Oxford and Cambridge and MI6 boss, Hugh Sinclair, acquired the Bletchley Park property. Denniston was involved in preparing the site and designing the huts to be built on the grounds. The GC&CS moved to the new location in August 1939, just before the Invasion of Poland and the start of the Second World War. Its name changed to Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ).\n\nOn 26 July 1939, five weeks before the outbreak of war, Denniston was one of three Britons (along with Dilly Knox and Humphrey Sandwith) who participated in the trilateral Polish-French-British conference held in the Kabaty Woods south of Warsaw, at which the Polish Biuro Szyfrów (Cipher Bureau) initiated the French and British into the decryption of German military Enigma ciphers.\n\nDenniston remained in command until he was hospitalised in June 1940 for a bladder stone. Despite his illness, he flew to the United States in 1941 to make contact with American cryptographers including William Friedman. Denniston returned to Bletchley Park for a while but moved to London later in 1941 to work on diplomatic traffic.\n\nDespite his knowledge of the success of Polish cryptologists against Enigma, Denniston shared the general pessimism about the prospects of breaking the more complex Naval Enigma encryption until as late as the summer of 1940, having told the Head of Naval Section at Bletchley: \"You know, the Germans don't mean you to read their stuff, and I don't expect you ever will.\" The advent of Banburismus shortly afterwards showed his pessimism to be misplaced. In October 1941, the originator of the technique, Alan Turing, along with fellow senior cryptologists Gordon Welchman, Stuart Milner-Barry and Hugh Alexander wrote to Churchill, over the head of Denniston, to alert Churchill to the fact that a shortage of staff at Bletchley Park was preventing them from deciphering many messages. An addition of personnel, small by military standards, could make a big difference to the effectiveness of the fighting effort. The slow response to previous requests had convinced them that the strategic value of their work was not understood in the right quarters. In the letter, there was praise for the 'energy and foresight' of Commander Edward Travis.\n\nChurchill reacted to the letter immediately, ordering \"Action this day\". Resources were transferred as fast as possible.\n\nIn February 1942, GC&CS was reorganised. Travis, Denniston's second in command and chief of the Naval section, succeeded Denniston at Bletchley Park, overseeing the work on military codes and ciphers.\nWhen Travis took over, he \"presided over an administrative revolution which at last brought the management of Intelligence into line with its mode of production\".\n\nDenniston and his wife had two children: a son and daughter. Their son, Robin, was educated at Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford. After Alastair's demotion and resulting decreased income, Robin's school fees were paid by benefactors. However, the Dennistons' daughter had to leave her school due to lack of funds.\n\nDenniston retired in 1945, and later taught French and Latin in Leatherhead.\n\nWilliam Friedman, the American cryptographer who broke the Japanese Purple code, later wrote to Denniston's daughter \"Your father was a great man in whose debt all English-speaking people will remain for a very long time, if not forever. That so few should know exactly what he did ... is the sad part.\"\n\nRobin distinguished himself as a publisher. In 2007, he published \"Thirty Secret Years,\" a biography of his father that consolidated his reputation in GCHQ history.\n\n\nIn the 2014 film \"The Imitation Game\" he is portrayed by Charles Dance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36877381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36877381", "title": "Alexandrine Charlotte de Rohan-Chabot", "text": "Alexandrine Charlotte de Rohan-Chabot\n\nAlexandrine Charlotte \"Rosalie\" de Rohan-Chabot (1763-1839), the \"duchesse de La Rochefoucauld\" was a French duchess and letter writer, known for the events of her life during the French Revolution.\n\nShe witnessed the infamous Reign of Terror at firsthand, including the assassination of her husband (and uncle) the Duc de La Rochefoucauld in Gisors during the September Massacres (they had married in 1780 and the marriage was childless) and the execution of her brother. In 1810 she remarried to her relation Boniface Louis Andre, Marquis de Castellane.\n\nShe was also the lover of U.S. ambassador William Short, the \"adoptive son\" of Thomas Jefferson. Their love affair was recorded in hundreds of letters, which document the lovers' pains of separation and their frustration with social norms. Likewise, their words of devotion are especially poetic and moving. The love letters are an authentic literary contribution, and offer personal insights into a turbulent era of world history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5081310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5081310", "title": "Alice de Janzé", "text": "Alice de Janzé\n\nAlice de Janzé, née Silverthorne (28 September 1899 – 30 September 1941), also known as Alice de Trafford and holder of the noble title Comtesse (Countess) de Janzé for a few years, was an American heiress who spent years in Kenya as a member of the Happy Valley set of colonials. She was connected with numerous scandals, including the attempted murder of her lover in 1927, and the 1941 murder of The 22nd Earl of Erroll in Kenya. Her tempestuous life was marked by promiscuity, drug abuse and several suicide attempts.\n\nGrowing up in Chicago and New York, Silverthorne was one of the most prominent American socialites of her time; a relative of the powerful Armour family, she was a multi-millionaire heiress. She entered French aristocracy in 1921, when she married Count de Janzé. In the mid-1920s, she was introduced to the infamous Happy Valley set, a community of white expatriates in East Africa, notorious for their hedonistic lifestyle. In 1927, she made international news when she shot her lover Raymond de Trafford in a Paris railway station and then turned the gun on herself; they both survived. De Janze stood trial but was only fined a small amount, and was later pardoned by the French state. She further scandalized the public by marrying, and then later divorcing, the man she shot.\n\nIn 1941, she was one of several major suspects in the well-publicized murder of her former lover and friend, Lord Erroll, in Kenya. After a long history of numerous failed suicide attempts, she died of a self-inflicted gunshot in September 1941. Her personality has been referenced both in fiction and non-fiction, most notably in the book \"White Mischief\" and its film adaptation, where she was portrayed by Sarah Miles.\n\nAlice was born in Buffalo, Erie County, New York, the only child of textile industrialist William Edward Silverthorne and wife, Julia Belle Chapin (14 August 1871 – 2 June 1907) a relative to the Armour family, of meatpacking success through the Armour & Company brand, at the time the largest food products company in the world. Silverthorne was a first cousin, once removed, to J. Ogden Armour and great-niece to Philip Danforth Armour and Herman Ossian Armour, the granddaughter of their sister Marietta, who left much of her estate to her mother, Julia, in 1897. William and Julia were married in Chicago on 8 June 1892, the city where Alice spent most of her childhood and adolescence, living with her parents in the affluent Gold Coast district. Alice herself became a favorite of her cousin, J. Ogden Armour. Her family's great wealth prompted her childhood friends to take a cue from her surname and give her the nickname \"Silver Spoon\".\n\nJulia Silverthorne died of complications from tuberculosis when Alice was only eight, although biographer Paul Spicer argues that her death was a result from being locked out of the house by her husband during a freezing night six months earlier. Alice, who inherited a large estate from her mother, was herself an asymptomatic consumptive from birth. Following her mother's death, Alice was raised by a German governess in large houses in New York; her alcoholic father was frequently absent due to his professional obligations. Contrary to her wishes, William Silverthorne quickly remarried in 1908, and had five children with his second wife, Louise Mattocks. Many of them did not survive; Alice's half-siblings included William Jr. (1912–1976), Victoria Louise (died in infant|infancy in 1914), Patricia (1915–?), Lawrence (1918–1923) and an unnamed girl who died in infancy in 1910. William later divorced Mattocks and married twice more.\nWith her father's encouragement, the precocious Alice was introduced to wild social life in her early adolescence. She was one of the more prominent socialites of Chicago, frequenting the fashionable nightclubs of the time. Her father also took her on several European tours and encouraged her image as a prominent debutante. These years of wild youth left Alice with a chronic melancholia; it is possible that she suffered from cyclothymia, a strain of bipolar disorder.\n\nHer father soon lost custody of her; an uncle from her mother's side assumed the role of her legal guardian and then proceeded to place her at a boarding school in Washington D.C. Journalist Michael Kilian believes this was because William Silverthorne had an incestuous relationship with his adolescent daughter, in which she lost her virginity to her father, until one of her uncles intervened and took the case to the court. Paul Spicer disagrees that her relationship with her father was improper. Regardless of the court decision, after fourteen-year-old Alice came to live with the Armours in New York she then openly travelled with her father to the French Riviera, where Kilian claims Silverthorne openly sported her as his mistress and allowed her to keep a black panther as a pet. In later years, she was famous for parading the animal up and down the Promenade des Anglais in Nice.\n\nIn 1919, Alice moved back to Chicago to live with her aunts, Mrs. Francis E. May (née Alice Chapin) and Mrs. Josephine Chapin. Two years later, Alice moved to Paris, where she briefly worked as director of the model department in Jean Patou's \"atelier\", until she met Frédéric Jacques, Comte de Janzé (ca 1896 – 24 December 1933), a well-known French racing driver and heir to an old aristocratic family in Brittany. A participant in the 24 Hours of Le Mans and other races, Frédéric also frequented literary circles and was close friends with Marcel Proust, Maurice Barrès and Anna de Noailles.\n\nUnlike many other American heiresses of the period, Alice had not allowed her family to arrange an advantageous match for her, choosing to take the initiative and pursue a romance with Comte de Janzé on her own. After a romance of only three weeks, the couple married on 21 September 1921 in Chicago, with her new husband reportedly finding her \"Silverthorne\" surname so charming that he regretted their marriage would take it away from her. Following the ceremony, Alice's aunt, Mrs. J. Ogden Armour, turned over the Armour estate on Long Island to the couple, where they spent two weeks before deciding to permanently settle in Paris, in the Champs-Élysées quarter. Their marriage produced two daughters, Nolwén Louise Alice de Janzé (20 June 1922 – 7 March 1989) and Paola Marie Jeanne de Janzé (1 June 1924 – 24 December 2006). Alice was a neglectful mother as Frederic was a neglectful father; the children were primarily brought up in their family chateau Parfondeval in Normandy by governesses and Frédéric's sister.\n\nIn 1925, de Janzé and Alice first met and became good friends with Josslyn, 22nd Earl of Erroll, and his wife, Idina, Countess of Erroll, in Montparnasse. Some time later, the young Lord and Lady Erroll decided to invite the de Janzés to spend some time in their home in the so-called 'Happy Valley' in the British Colony of Kenya, a community of British colonials living in the Wanjohi Valley, near the Aberdare Mountains. This enclave had become notorious among socialites in Great Britain for being a paradise for all those seeking a hedonistic lifestyle, including drugs, alcohol and sexual promiscuity. Noticing that Alice had become restless, Frédéric decided to distract her and agreed to the trip.\n\nIn the Happy Valley, the de Janzés were neighbours to the Errolls. Frédéric Comte de Janzé documented his time in Happy Valley and all the eccentric personalities he met there in his book, \"Vertical Land\", which was published in 1928. The Comte provided several non-eponymous references to members of the Happy Valley set, including a psychological portrait of his wife that alludes to her suicidal tendencies:\n\nEven among the scandalous residents of Happy Valley, Alice, who was soon known as \"the wicked Madonna\", caused a sensation with her beauty, sarcastic sense of humour, and wild and unpredictable mood swings. She was known for speaking passionately about animal rights as well as playing the ukulele, and soon she began an affair with Lord Erroll, openly sharing him with Idina.\n\nAlice and Frédéric later returned to Happy Valley in 1926. While Frédéric distracted himself with lion hunting, Alice began another love affair, this time with British nobleman Raymond Vincent de Trafford (28 January 1900 – 14 May 1971), son of Sir Humphrey de Trafford, 3rd Baronet. Alice's infatuation with de Trafford was so great that at some point the couple attempted to elope, although they promptly returned. Frédéric was aware of his wife's open infidelity, but did not become preoccupied by it, although years later he would refer to the love triangle with de Trafford as \"the infernal triangle\".\n\nThat autumn, in an attempt to save his marriage, Frédéric returned to Paris with Alice; he was unsuccessful. Alice visited Frédéric's mother: revealing that she was in love with de Trafford, she asked her help in obtaining a divorce. Her mother-in-law advised her to think of her two daughters and do nothing she might later regret. Alice soon returned to Kenya and her lover. Hoping to keep Alice's extramarital affair from becoming a scandal, her mother-in-law loaned Alice a furnished flat in a quiet street in Paris to use as a \"love nest\" with de Trafford. Under pressure by his family, Frédéric quickly sued for divorce.\n\nOn the morning of 25 March 1927, Alice awoke in her Paris home feeling extremely agitated, according to the later testimony of her maid. That afternoon, when Alice and Raymond de Trafford met, he informed Alice that he would not be able to marry her as his strict Catholic family had threatened to disinherit him if he followed through with the plan. The couple later visited a sporting equipment shop together, where Alice bought a gold-mounted, pearl-handled revolver.\n\nAt the Gare du Nord a few hours later, as de Trafford was bidding farewell to her in his train compartment before he left for London by an express boat train, she pulled the revolver from her purse and shot him in the stomach, puncturing his lung. She then shot herself in the stomach. The train conductor reported that when he opened the compartment door, Alice gasped \"I did it\" and then collapsed.\n\nDe Trafford spent several days in a hospital in critical condition. Alice is reported to have screamed \"But he must live! I want him to live!\" when she heard the news that de Trafford was too seriously wounded to survive. Her own wound was initially overlooked by doctors during the confusion. Despite initial reports that spoke of her also being gravely injured, her wounds were quite superficial. One journalist reported that \"she had shot herself very gently\". Both Alice and de Trafford were transferred to the Laboisiere hospital. Relatives of Alice rushed to the hospital and attempted to have her transferred to a private clinic, but were stopped by the gendarmes because the countess was technically under arrest.\n\nThe incident made headlines all over the world. Some confusion was caused when five British newspapers, \"Western Mail\", \"The Manchester Guardian\", \"The Liverpool Daily Courier\", \"The Liverpool Evening Express\" and \"Sheffield Daily Telegraph\", illustrated their reports of the shooting incident with pictures not of Alice, but of her sister-in-law Vicomtesse Phillis Meeta de Janzé. The viscountess promptly sued them for libel and received a settlement.\n\nIn an attempt to minimize the situation, a statement was released to the press by Alice's family, assuring the public that there was nothing in the double shooting that \"casts discredit upon the names of Armour and Silverthorne, which have been honored in America many generations, nor anything which could induce a French jury to render a verdict of conviction\". Her aunt Mrs. George Silverthorne told a reporter: \"It cannot be Alice. She and her husband were so happy together, and such a thing would be impossible. There must be some mistake\".\n\nAlice claimed to feel regret about shooting de Trafford, who was said to be on the brink of death, but did not offer an explanation, telling a police official who was permitted to see her: \"I decided to shoot him just as the train was leaving. Why is my own secret. Don't ask me.\" De Trafford finally regained consciousness and made a brief statement. In an effort to protect Alice, he explained: \"Why, Madame attempted suicide. I tried to stop her and the weapon was accidentally discharged. A deplorable accident, surely... but yet, an accident!\" before lapsing into unconsciousness again. De Janzé's condition quickly improved and she was first able to talk with relatives on 30 March. She officially confessed to the shootings in a signed statement on 2 April, in which she admitted to having attempted suicide numerous times in her life, declaring: \"I wanted to kill myself, for I have always had ideas of suicide. From time to time, and without reason, I have wanted to die\".\n\nOn 5 April, Alice de Janzé was officially charged with attempted murder with premeditation. On 8 April, she made an official declaration in which she stated she originally only planned suicide when she bought the revolver, but eventually also fired at de Trafford because of anguish at parting from him. In her official declaration to Judge Banquart, who was charged with investigating the case, she stated:\n\nOn 9 April, de Trafford returned to London by a special aeroplane, declaring to French authorities that he did not wish to take any action against Alice, although he would return to Paris if his testimony was needed. Meanwhile, de Janzé was held in Saint Lazare, a prison for women. Her cell, No. 12, had hosted several notorious female criminals in the past, including Mata Hari, Marguerite Steinheil and Henriette Caillaux. After she made a formal demand for release on bail, she was temporarily freed by the police pending her recovery on 20 May. She eventually described what happened in the train station:\n\nThanks to the intervention of her aunt, Mrs. Francis May, Alice then vanished from the public eye, hidden in a nursing home close to Paris in preparation for the impending trial. Her lawyers attempted, without success, to have the charges against her dismissed. She was tried by the Paris Tribunal on 23 December 1927, but only on the charge of assault, after her celebrated advocate, René Mettetal, convinced the examining magistrate that she was mentally irresponsible at the time she shot de Trafford. When de Trafford was asked if he wanted to press charges against the countess, he expressed surprise and annoyance at the idea, claiming that his wounding was an accident that he himself caused:\n\nAlice's defense lawyer pleaded that the countess' chronic melancholy and tuberculosis had \"deadened her intelligence\". He also read a letter from her childhood friend, American heiress Mary Landon Baker, in which Baker claimed that Alice suffered from extreme melancholia and that she had attempted suicide a total of four times throughout her life. When asked why she took the gun with her to the railway station, Alice replied: \"To kill myself. And I nearly succeeded. Didn't I shoot myself in the stomach, like poor Raymond?\" She also made her plea that she be acquitted so as to not disgrace the family name of the de Janzé.\n\nEventually, Alice received a suspended sentence of six months in prison and a fine of 100 francs (approximately 4 U.S. dollars) by the Paris Correctional Court, who rebuked de Trafford for his failure to deliver his promise to marry her, out of fear of losing the family allowance. Although it was criticized by some newspapers, this lenient decision may have been influenced by the revelation concerning Alice's frequent suicide attempts, de Trafford's taking responsibility for her state of mind, and the public's sympathetic view of her as the tragic victim of a true crime of passion. Even the prosecuting attorney insisted upon leniency and declared that \"I should not like to bear de Trafford's responsibility for a broken heart and a disrupted home\".\n\nUnder the First Offenders Act, Alice was immediately released,\nand on 13 April 1929 she received a full presidential pardon from Gaston Doumergue, the president of the French Republic, so that even the fine she had been forced to pay was returned to her by the court. The request for the pardon was partially made to avoid any commercial repercussions the conviction might cause.\n\nIn the wake of the shooting scandal, a divorce was granted to Frédéric de Janzé, on the grounds of desertion, by the Paris Tribunal on 15 June 1927. While no mention was made of the Gare du Nord episode, Alice was to receive no alimony and Frédéric was granted custody of their two children.\n\nThat December, Alice shocked both the count and the newspapers when she declared that she would remarry her husband for \"the sake of the children\"; she later retracted her statement. The civil divorce was followed by an annulment of the marriage by the Vatican on 26 July 1928; Frédéric's attorneys then warned every newspaper in England never to refer to Alice as Countess de Janzé again. Frédéric died on 24 December 1933, in Baltimore of septicaemia.\n\nFollowing the public ordeal, de Trafford advised Alice against returning to London for a while. In early 1928, she returned to Kenya, but, in light of her public scandal, was soon ordered by the Government House to leave the country as an \"undesirable alien\". In the following weeks, until she could properly organize her departure and wanting a relatively peaceful place where she could rest after the ordeal, she stayed for a while at the house of writer Karen Blixen, a good friend of Lord Erroll. She also resumed her affair with the Earl. Months later, living in Paris and growing indignant about the rumours, she publicly refuted that she had been asked to leave Kenya. It was not until years later that Alice was able to return, thanks to the intervention of both de Janzé and de Trafford, who convinced the Kenyan Government to re-admit her.\n\nAround this time, Alice caused a new sensation when it was revealed she had resumed her love affair with de Trafford, the man she had almost killed. A rumor that the couple would soon have a quiet wedding in Paris was first circulated in May 1927, then in September of that same year and later in January 1928. Alice's lawyer denied any such plans, and no wedding took place. The rumor surfaced again in April 1930. Ultimately, the couple married on 22 February 1932 in Neuilly-sur-Seine and spoke of buying a house in London. Alice commented on her affair with de Trafford: \"We were deeply in love. It was arranged that we should marry\"., although it has been suggested that Alice literally pursued de Trafford for three years before she finally got him to marry her.\n\nDuring this time Alice, who now had severe financial reversals, took over the management of a gown shop in Paris under the firm name of \"Gloria Bocher\", but soon lost both interest and money in the venture. Her marriage also rapidly collapsed, ending only three months after the wedding when the couple got into a heated argument in the compartment of an English railroad train over their honeymoon destination. Alice confided to de Trafford that she had purchased the cottage in Happy Valley where they used to rendezvous at the start of their affair, deciding that it would be perfect for their honeymoon. The idea that did not appeal to her new husband; during the course of the argument, Alice absent-mindedly reached into her purse, prompting a terrified de Trafford to flee, fearing a new murder attempt. Alice later claimed she had no pistol in her purse, nor had she the intention of shooting him, but instead wanted to powder her nose.\n\nAlice officially sought a divorce in November 1932, charging Raymond, who had fled to Australia, with cruelty and desertion. It took her two years to obtain his signature, and the divorce procedure was reported to begin on September 1934, but did not go forward. Alice may have changed her mind, but she again officially filed for divorce on May 1937, winning an uncontested suit and a grant of decree nisi on the grounds of adultery with an unnamed correspondent at a London hotel.\n\nFollowing the divorce, Alice considered permanently returning to Chicago, but friends advised her against it, pointing out how the shooting scandal had made her a \"marked woman\" in her native land. Accepting her notoriety, Alice returned to the world of 'Happy Valley', where she permanently settled in the large farmhouse she had previously bought in Gilgil, located on the banks of River Wanjohi. She spent the following years reading and taking care of her animals, which included lions, panthers and antelopes. She also became heavily addicted to drugs, particularly morphine. She was avoided by certain members of the community due to her rapid mood swings and the shooting incident; her friend, aviator Beryl Markham, later disclosed: \"Loneliness fixed Alice. Everyone was frightened of her\".\n\nAlice now only rarely visited her children in France. Years later, Nolwén would state that she did not feel bitterness or hostility for her mother during their brief meetings, but would actually be fascinated by this virtually unknown woman who brought with her an air of mystique, owing to her permanent stay in Africa.\n\nOn 24 January 1941, Lord Erroll was found shot to death in his car, at an intersection outside Nairobi. Errol's serial philandering contributed to the persistent rumor that the perpetrator was a woman. Police duly interrogated all of Erroll's closest acquaintances, including Alice. Although she had an alibi because she had spent an intimate night with Dickie Pembroke, another Happy Valley resident, due to her drug habits, her romantic attachment to Errol, and her previous attempt to kill a paramour, she was immediately regarded as the prime suspect among the white community of Happy Valley. It was also rumoured that Alice had attempted suicide on hearing the news of Erroll's death.\n\nOn the morning after Erroll's body was discovered, de Janzé went to the morgue with a friend to see his body. According to eyewitnesses, Alice stunned those in attendance by leaving a tree branch on Erroll's corpse, and whispering the words: \"Now you are mine forever\". Eyewitness and close friend Julian Lezzard suspected that Alice was the murderer, since it fitted with her morbid preoccupations; it was even rumoured that Alice herself had admitted to the killing. In his investigative book, \"White Mischief\", journalist James Fox mentions a suspicious incident regarding Alice and her possible connection to the crime. A few months after the murder, Alice went away for a few days and asked a neighbour to look after her house. In her absence, one of Alice's houseboys came to the neighbour, and produced a revolver, which he claimed he had found by a bridge, under a pile of stones on Alice's land.\n\nIn March 1941, British aristocrat Sir Henry John \"Jock\" Delves Broughton was officially charged with Lord Erroll's murder. Delves Broughton had been aware of a passionate love affair between his young wife, Diana, and Erroll, in the months before his murder. De Janzé paid regular visits to Delves Broughton in prison, and, with her friend Idina, the late Errol's first wife, attended every day of the trial. In July 1941, Delves Broughton was acquitted due to lack of evidence.\n\nPaul Spicer theorizes that Alice was the real murderer of Lord Erroll, based on several letters that Alice's personal doctor and former lover, William Boyle, discovered in her house on the day of her death, and later handed over to the police.\n\nIn August 1941, after being diagnosed with uterine cancer, Alice underwent a hysterectomy. On 23 September, she attempted suicide by taking an overdose of pentobarbital. When her friend, Patricia Bowles, discovered her, she had already marked every piece of furniture with the name of the friend who would inherit it. Bowles rescued Alice by calling a doctor to pump her stomach.\n\nA week later, on 30 September, two days after turning 42, she finally succeeded in ending her life. A servant found her dead on her bed from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, from the same weapon she had once used on Raymond and herself. Michael Kilian, who has written extensively about Alice's life, believes that she chose suicide because she became depressed about her aging appearance and loss of looks. It was not the first suicide in her family: her cousin, John Hellyer Silverthorne had also committed suicide by gunshot in his home in Chicago in 1933, at the age of 26.\n\nAlice left three suicide notes, one addressed to the police, one to her daughters and one to Dickie Pembroke. The content of the letters was never publicly disclosed, fueling rumours that they containing revelations into the Errol murder. A government official, summoned to examine her possessions, was reportedly dumbfounded when he came across the letters. After a long, secret meeting among officials, it was decided that the content of her papers and letters would not be made public. What did become known is that she had requested that her friends hold a cocktail party on her grave.\n\nOn 21 January 1942, following an inquest in Nairobi, her death was officially ruled a suicide; the finding was delayed due to the difficulty in obtaining evidence. The coroner also concluded there was no sign of insanity, but he further fuelled the conspiracy theories by stating that the content of Alice's letters were such as to merit their being destroyed, because they constituted damaging revelations of a social and political nature.\n\nWriter Joseph Broccoli conjectures that Alice de Janzé and the 1927 shooting served as a source of inspiration for Maria Wallis and the shooting incident in F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel \"Tender Is the Night\" (1934),\n\nThe film adaptation makes much of de Janzé's eccentricities, including scenes in which she watches a polo match with a snake twined around her shoulders, or doses herself with a syringe of morphine in the ladies' toilet. In 1988, Miles stated at the Cannes Film Festival that as an actress de Janzé was a difficult character for her to portray. When she first arrived in Kenya, Miles sought people who knew Alice but was unable to learn anything substantial due to those acquaintances' confused perceptions of de Janzé; some were even uncertain as to her true nationality.\n\nMichael Kilian makes reference to Alice in his novel of historical fiction \"Dance on a Sinking Ship\" (1988), in which a character boasts of having taken her virginity, and included her as a character in another novel of historical fiction \"Sinful Safari\" (2003) in which various members of the Happy Valley set, including Alice, are suspects in a fictional murder case in 1920s Kenya. Similarly, Paul Di Filippo based Alice and several other members of the Happy Valley set as the protagonists in his fictional story \"The Happy Valley at the End of the World\", part of his collection, \"Lost Pages\" (1998). Her character also briefly appears in another novel of historical fiction, Stephen Maitland-Lewis' \"Hero on Three Continents\" (2004), in which she is comically depicted recounting how she once shot one of her former husbands but \"sadly botched it up\".\n\nThe music band Building released a song in their album \"Second Building\" that is titled \"Alice de Janze\" and is inspired by the story of Alice, making reference to her suicide with the lyric \"you died too young\".\n\nFashion designer Edward Finney's Spring/Summer Collection 2012 was inspired by the life of Alice de Janze.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276999", "title": "Anthonie Cornelis Oudemans", "text": "Anthonie Cornelis Oudemans\n\nAnthonie (Antoon) Cornelis Oudemans Jzn (November 12, 1858 – January 14, 1943) was a Dutch zoologist.\n\nBorn in Batavia, Dutch East Indies, he was the son of the noted Dutch astronomer Jean Abraham Chrétien Oudemans and the grandson of the Dutch educator, poet and philologist Anthonie Cornelis Oudemans Sr., after whom he was named. He often used the patronymic \"Jzn\" (for \"Jeanzoon\") in his publications.\n\nHe wrote his dissertation on ribbon worms, and in 1885 was appointed director of the Royal Zoological Gardens at The Hague. He is credited with the discovery of several insect and a primate species, the black crested mangabey.\n\n1892 saw the publication of Oudeman's \"The Great Sea Serpent\", a study of the many sea serpent reports from the world's oceans. Oudemans concluded that such creatures might be a previously unknown large seal, which he dubbed \"Megophias megophias\". Reception of the volume has been described as respectful but \"cold\". Bernard Heuvelmans later suggested that \"The Great Sea Serpent\" was the root of cryptozoology.\n\nIn 1917 he published \"Dodo-studiën: naar aanleiding van de vondst van een gevelsteen met dodo-beeld van 1561 te Vere\", an article on extinct dodo research.\n\nIn 1895, Oudemans left The Hague to teach biology in the Frisian city of Sneek. He published several scientific articles in later years. He had married Helena Johanna van de Velde in 1887, but became a widower, and remarried to Aletta Amelia Louise Pilgrim in 1919.\n\nIn 1942 he donated the Rijksmuseum van Natuurlijke Historie his important collection of mites (Acari). This collection numbers 5981 slides (1316 species). After his death, the accompanying drawings were bequeathed to the museum as well.\n\nOudemans died in Arnhem in 1943.\n\n"}
{"id": "20210447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210447", "title": "Beibulat Taimiev", "text": "Beibulat Taimiev\n\nBeibulat Taimin (1779-1831) was a Chechen military and political leader, who led rebellions against Russian expansion in the North Caucasus but also developed diplomatic relations with the Russians. In Chechen folklore he is remembered as a figure of outstanding courage.\n\nBeibulat Taimiev is an important figure in the history of resistance to colonialism in Chechnya, described as Chechnya's \"greatest and most famous war leader\" and by the Russian poet Alexandr Pushkin as \"The renowned Beibulat, the most feared man in the Caucasus\". He may well be considered also as the first Chechen diplomat for his negotiating efforts at the height of armed clashes between mountaineers and regular troops. Taimiev was a flexible politician and diplomat. He wanted good neighbourly relations between his people and the people of Russia, so he aimed at reconciling the interests of the two and called for peace talks. To this end, Taimiev often met with the tsar’s commissioner in the North Caucasus, General Yermolov. He established diplomatic contacts with Iran and Turkey and went to visit the countries personally.\n\nMany historians say the role of Taimiev in the political life of the North Caucasus in the first three decades of the 19th century was that of the leader of rebellions by Chechen and Ingush people. Among the uprisings that he led against the Russians was that in the name of Islam in 1825. However, he used his position to prevent revolts by mountaineers from turning into bloodshed and robbery. Taking the command of the mutinies Taimiev never stopped his diplomatic activity. The circumstances of his death remain unclear, and there is a possibility that Taimiev was eliminated by more radically minded associates.\n\nThe political activity of Taimiev lasted for 30 years. Sympathizing with his views, his struggle for independence and fair relations with Russia were Pushkin, Alexandr Griboyedov, the Decembrists, and later Mikhail Lermontov and Leo Tolstoy. \n\nThough a real historical figure, Beibulat Taimiev is also a leading character of Chechen folklore. In poems and songs he is depicted as a legendary dare-devil. In oral narrative the name of Beibulat is associated with courage or reckless boldness.\n"}
{"id": "13823313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13823313", "title": "Bill Harrelson", "text": "Bill Harrelson\n\nWilliam Charles Harrelson (born November 17, 1945) is a former professional baseball player who played one season for the California Angels of Major League Baseball. During his playing days, he stood at 6' 5\" and weighed 215 lbs.\n\nHarrelson, a \"full blooded Cherokee Indian,\" was born in Tahlequah, Oklahoma. In 1964, he was signed by the Angels and began his professional baseball career that season. He played in the Pioneer League, California League, and Midwest League in 1964 and 1965 but had little success. In 1966, Harrelson went 8-11 with a 3.31 earned run average in the New York–Penn League; in 1967, he had his best season, going 7-4 with a 2.48 ERA for the California League's San Jose Bees. That performance got him promoted to Class AA, Class AAA, and finally the majors in 1968.\n\nHarrelson made his major league debut with the Angels on July 31, 1968. He was involved in a pitching duel with future Hall of Famer Catfish Hunter that day, both allowing just one run through seven innings. Harrelson gave up just four hits, all singles, through seven, but he weakened in the eighth and eventually took the loss. Things didn't get much better for him, as he went 1-6 with a 5.08 ERA over the next two months. He made his final major league appearance on September 18.\n\nIn 1969, Harrelson returned to the minors and played in the Texas League and Pacific Coast League. On January 14, 1970, he was traded to the Cincinnati Reds organization, along with Dan Loomer, for Jack Fisher. Harrelson had losing records in the minors in both 1970 and 1971 before retiring from baseball.\n\n, or Retrosheet\n"}
{"id": "6797644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6797644", "title": "Bolesław Piasecki", "text": "Bolesław Piasecki\n\nBolesław Bogdan Piasecki (alias Leon Całka, Sablewski; born February 18, 1915 in Łódź, died January 1, 1979 in Warsaw) was a Polish politician and writer.\n\nIn interwar Poland he was one of the more prominent nationalist politicians, playing an important role in the leadership of Obóz Narodowo-Radykalny. \nIn 1934 he was interned in Bereza Kartuska. After his release, he became the leader of the illegal, extreme right faction ONR-Falanga. This organisation advocated \"Catholic totalitarianism\" and is considered by many to have been a fascist movement.\n\nDuring the Second World War he fought in the Polish Underground, leading the grouping Konfederacja Narodu (merged into the Armia Krajowa in 1943) and taking part in the fighting around Vilnius. Afterwards, he was arrested by the Soviet NKVD, and in a drastic conversion from his previous stance began to cooperate with the Communist government in Poland.\n\nAfter the war, in 1945, he cofounded and directed a so-called social progressive movement of lay Catholics, grouped around the weekly publication \"Dziś i Jutro\" (Today and Tomorrow). In 1947 he created the PAX Association and was the chairman of its governing body (until his death). \nAfter 1956, the importance of PAX diminished (and Piasecki's role along with it), though it remained a prominent organisation until 1989 and its successors still exist today.\n\nIn later years, Piasecki was a member of the Polish Sejm from 1965, where he presided over the grouping of members associated with PAX. In 1971-1979 he was a member of the Polish Council of State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24586690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24586690", "title": "Bracha Peli", "text": "Bracha Peli\n\nBracha Peli () (1892–1986) was the founder and owner of the Israeli publishing house, Massada. She was the driving force behind the publication of \"Encyclopaedia Hebraica\", and is credited with starting Israel's annual Hebrew Book Week.\n\nBronya Kutzenok (later Bracha Peli) was born in Starovitzky, a small village in Russia, now Ukraine to a family of Hasidic Jews. She was the eldest of seven children. Her father, Shmuel Kutzenok, was a wealthy lumber merchant who supplied timber for artillery wagons to the Russian army. Her mother, Sarah, ran the village general store. She acquired an education by overhearing her brothers' lessons. Early on, she became proficient in Yiddish, Russian and Hebrew. In 1905, when she was about to study at a Gymnasium in Kiev, pogroms against the Jews erupted, disrupting her plans. She waited two years to complete her secondary education and study economics.\n\nIn 1914, after her mother died of tuberculosis, Peli met a young Zionist teacher, Meir Pilipovetsky, whom she married against her family's wishes. After her son, Alexander, was born she opened a Jewish secondary school that attracted 400 students in its first year.\n\nIn July 1921, Peli and her husband left Russia for Palestine, settling in Tel Aviv. In 1926, Peli opened a stall in Tel Aviv to sell books cheaply, which led to the inauguration of an annual event. Today Hebrew Book Week is a national 10-day event. The Encyclopaedia Hebraica project began using Bracha Peli's publishing house in 1946 with her son, Alexander, supervising. The last volume was published in 1996.\n\nBracha Peli died in 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "2437588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437588", "title": "Cantonese people", "text": "Cantonese people\n\nThe Cantonese people (, also ) are subgroup of the Han Chinese people native to and/or originating from the provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi (collectively known as Liangguang), in southern mainland China. Although more accurately, \"Cantonese\" refers only to the people from Guangzhou and its satellite cities and towns and/or native speakers of Standard Cantonese, rather than simply and generally referring to the people of the Liangguang region. The Cantonese people share a common native culture, history, ancestry and language. The term \"Cantonese people\" is often synonymous with the Punti people (). They are also referred to as \"Hoa\" in Vietnam, \"Kongfu\" in Malaysia and \"Konghu\" in Indonesia.\".\n\nHistorically centered on and predominating the Pearl River Basin shared between Guangdong and Guangxi, the Cantonese people are also responsible for establishing their native language's usage in Hong Kong and Macau during the early migrations within the British and Portuguese colonial eras respectively. Today, Hong Kong and Macau are the only regions in the world where Cantonese is the official spoken language, with the mixed influences of English and Portuguese respectively. Cantonese is traditionally and remains today a majority language in Guangdong and Guangxi, despite the increasing influence of Mandarin. There are currently around 9 million Cantonese speakers overseas. \n\nTaishanese people may also be considered Cantonese but speak a dinstict variation of Yue Chinese Taishanese.\n\nThere have been a number of influential Cantonese figures throughout history, such as Yuan Chonghuan, Bruce Lee, Liang Qichao, Sun Yat-Sen, Lee Shau-kee, Ho Ching and Flossie Wong-Staal.\n\n\"Cantonese\" has been generally used to describe all Chinese people from Guangdong since \"Cantonese\" is commonly treated as a synonym with \"Guangdong\" and the Cantonese language is treated as the sole language of the region. The English name \"Canton\" derived from Portuguese ' or ', a muddling of dialectical pronunciations of \"Guangdong\" (e.g., Hakka \"Kóng-tûng\"). Although it originally and chiefly applied to the walled city of Guangzhou, it was occasionally conflated with Guangdong by some authors. This is inaccurate as \"Canton\" itself technically only refers to Guangdong's capital Guangzhou and the Cantonese language specifically refers to only the Guangzhou dialect of the Yue Chinese languages.\n\nWithin Guangdong and Guangxi, Cantonese is considered the prestige dialect and is called \"baahk wá\" () which means \"vernacular\". In historical times, it was known as \"Guangzhou speech\" or Guangzhounese (廣州話; 广州话; Gwóngjāu wá) but due to Guangzhou's prosperity it has led people to conflate it with all Yue languages and many now refer to \"Guangzhou speech\" as simply \"Guangdong speech\" (廣東話; 广东话; Gwóngdūng wá). Similar cases where entire Chinese language families are thought to be a single language occur with non-specialists, conflating all Wu Chinese languages as just Shanghainese and its different forms, as it is the prestige dialect (although historically Suzhounese was), or that Mandarin only refers to the Beijing-based Standard Chinese and that it is a single language rather than a large group of related varieties.\n\nThere are many other Chinese languages spoken by the Han Chinese in these areas. In Guangxi, Southwestern Mandarin is spoken as are other Yue Chinese languages apart from Cantonese. In Guangdong, aside from other Yue Chinese languages, these non-Cantonese languages include Hakka, Chaoshan, Leizhou Min, Tuhua. Non-Cantonese speaking Yue peoples are sometimes labelled as \"Cantonese\" such as the Taishanese people (), even though Taishanese (台山話) has low intelligibility to Standard Cantonese. Some literature uses neutral terminology such as Guangdongnese and Guangxinese to refer to people from these provinces without the cultural or linguistic affiliations to Cantonese.\n\nUntil the 19th century, Cantonese history was largely the history of Guangdong and Guangxi provinces. What is now Guangdong, and later Guangxi, was first brought under Qin influence by a general named Zhao Tuo, who later founded the kingdom of Nanyue in 204 BC. The Nanyue kingdom went on to become the strongest Baiyue state in China, with many neighboring kingdoms declaring their allegiance to Nanyue rule. Zhao Tuo took the Han territory of Hunan and defeated the Han dynasty's first attack on Nanyue, later annexing the kingdom of Minyue in the East and conquering Âu Lạc, Northern Vietnam, in the West in 179 BC.\n\nThe greatly expanded Nanyue kingdom included the territories of modern-day Guangdong, Guangxi and Northern Vietnam (Annam), with the capital situated at modern-day Guangzhou. The native peoples of Liangguang remained under Baiyue control until the Han dynasty in 111 BC, following the Han–Nanyue War. However, it was not until subsequent dynasties such as the Jin Dynasty, the Tang Dynasty and the Song Dynasty that major waves of Han Chinese began to migrate south into Guangdong and Guangxi. Waves of migration and subsequent intermarriage meant that existing populations of both provinces were displaced, but some native groups like the Zhuangs still remained. The Cantonese often call themselves \"people of Tang\" (). This is because of the inter-mixture between native and Han immigrants in Guangdong and Guangxi reached a critical mass of acculturation during the Tang dynasty, creating a new local identity among the Liangguang peoples.\n\nDuring the 4th–12th centuries, Han Chinese people from North China's Yellow River delta migrated and settled in the South of China. This gave rise to peoples including the Cantonese themselves, Hakkas and Hoklos, whose ancestors migrated from Henan and Shandong, to areas of southeastern coastal China such as Chaozhou, Quanzhou and Zhangzhou and other parts of Guangdong during the Tang dynasty. There have been multiple migrations of Han people into Southeastern and Southern China throughout history.\n\nThe origin of the Cantonese people is thus said to be Northern Chinese peoples that migrated to Guangdong and Guangxi while it was still inhabited by Baiyue peoples. During Wang Mang's reign in the Han dynasty (206BC-220AD), there were influxes of Han Chinese migrants into Guangdong and Guangxi, western coast of Hainan, Annam (now Northern Vietnam) and eastern Yunnan.\n\nDuring the early 1800s, conflict occurred between Cantonese and Portuguese pirates in the form of the Ningpo massacre after the defeat of Portuguese pirates. The First (18391842) and Second Opium Wars (18561860) led to the loss of China's control over Hong Kong and Kowloon, which were ceded to the British Empire. Macau also became a Portuguese settlement. Between 1855 and 1867, the Punti-Hakka Clan Wars caused further discord in Guangdong and Guangxi. The third plague pandemic of 1855 broke out in Yunnan and spread to the Liangguang region via Guangxi, killing thousands and spreading via water traffic to nearby Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nThe turmoil of the 19th century, followed by the political upheaval of the early 20th century, compelled many residents of Guangdong to migrate overseas in search of a better future. Up until the second half of the 20th century, the majority of overseas Chinese emigrated from two provinces of China; Guangdong and Fujian. As a result, there are today many Cantonese communities throughout the world, including in Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, the Americas, the Caribbean and Western Europe, with Chinatowns commonly being established by Cantonese communities. There have been a large number of interracial marriages between Cantonese men and women from other nations, as most of the Cantonese migrants were men. As a result, there are many Eurasians with Cantonese ancestry, for example Nancy Kwan, born to a Cantonese father and Scottish mother, is a well-known Hollywood actress in the 1960s; and influential martial artist Bruce Lee, who was born to a Cantonese father and a half-Chinese, half-Caucasian mother.\n\nUnlike the migrants from Fujian, who mostly settled in Southeast Asia, many Cantonese emigrants also migrated to the Western Hemisphere, particularly the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Many Cantonese immigrants into the United States became railroad labourers, while many in South America were brought in as coolies. Cantonese immigrants in the United States and Australia participated in the California Gold Rush and the Australian gold rushes of 1854 onwards, while those in Hawaii found employment in sugarcane plantations as contract labourers. These early immigrants variously faced hostility and a variety of discriminatory laws, including the prohibition of Chinese female immigrants. The relaxation of immigration laws after World War II allowed for subsequent waves of migration to the Western world from southeastern mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau. As a result, Cantonese continues to be widely used by Chinese communities of Guangdong, Guangxi, Hong Kong and Macau regional origin in the Western hemisphere, and has not been supplanted by the Mandarin-based Standard Chinese. A large proportion of the early migrants also came from the Siyi region of Guangdong and spoke Taishanese. The Taishanese variant is still spoken in American-Chinese communities, by the older population as well as by more recent immigrants from Taishan, in Jiangmen, Guangdong.\n\nThe Xinhai Revolution of 1911 was a revolution that overthrew the last imperial dynasty of China, the Qing dynasty, and established the Republic of China. Guangdong's uprising against the Qing dynasty in 1895 let to its naming as the \"cradle of the Xinhai Revolution\". Revolutionary leader Sun Yat-sen was born in Zhongshan, Guangdong. Hong Kong was where he developed his thoughts of revolution and was the base of subsequent uprisings, as well as the first revolutionary newspaper. Sun Yat-sen's revolutionary army was largely made up of Cantonese, and many of the early revolutionary leaders were also Cantonese.\n\nCantonese people and their culture are centered in Guangdong, eastern Guangxi, Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nGuangzhou (formerly known as Canton), the capital city of Guangdong, has been one of China's international trading ports since the Tang dynasty. During the 18th century, it became an important centre of the emerging trade between China and the Western world, as part of the Canton System. The privilege during this period made Guangzhou one of the top three cities in the world. Operating from the Thirteen Factories located on the banks of the Pearl River outside Canton, merchants traded goods such as silk, porcelain (\"fine china\"), and tea, allowing Guangzhou to become a prosperous city. Links to overseas contacts and beneficial tax reforms in the 1990s have also contributed to the city's ongoing growth. Guangzhou was named a global city in 2008. The migrant population from other provinces of China in Guangzhou was 40 percent of the city's total population in 2008. Most of them are rural migrants and they speak only Mandarin.\n\nHong Kong and Macau are two of the richest cities in the world in terms of GDP per capita and are autonomous SARs (Special Administrative Regions) that are under independent governance from China. Historically governed by the British and Portuguese empires respectively, colonial Hong Kong and Macau were increasingly populated by migrant influxes from mainland China, particularly the nearby Guangdong Province. For that reason, the culture of Hong Kong and Macau became a mixture of Cantonese and Western influences, sometimes described as \"East meets West\".\n\nHong Kong Island was first colonised by the British Empire in 1842 with a population of only 7,450; however, it was in 1898 that Hong Kong truly became a British colony, when the British also colonised the New Territories (which constitute 86.2% of Hong Kong's modern territory). It was during this period that migrants from China entered, mainly speaking Cantonese (the prestige variety of Yue Chinese) as a common language. During the following century of British rule, Hong Kong grew into a hub of Cantonese culture, and has remained as such since the handover in 1997.\n\nToday Hong Kong is one of the world's leading financial centres, and the Hong Kong dollar is the thirteenth most-traded currency in the world.\n\nMacau native people are known as the Tanka. A dialect similar to Shiqi (石岐話), originating from Zhongshan (中山) in Guangdong, is also spoken in the region.\n\nParts of Macau were first loaned to the Portuguese by China as a trading centre in the 16th century, with the Portuguese required to administrate the city under Chinese authority. In 1851 and 1864, the Portuguese Empire occupied the two nearest offshore islands Taipa and Coloane respectively, and Macau officially became a colony of the Portuguese Empire in 1887. Macau was returned to China in 1999.\n\nBy 2002, Macau had become one of the world's richest cities, and by 2006, it had surpassed Las Vegas to become the world's biggest gambling centre. Macau is also a world cultural heritage site due to its Portuguese colonial architecture.\n\nThe term \"Cantonese\" is used to refer to the native culture, language and people of Guangdong and Guangxi.\n\nThere are cultural, economic, political, generational and geographical differences in making \"Cantonese-ness\" in and beyond Guangdong and Guangxi, with the interacting dynamics of migration, education, social developments and cultural representations.\n\nThe term \"Cantonese language\" is sometimes used to refer to the broader group of Yue Chinese languages and dialects spoken in Guangdong and Guangxi, although it is used more specifically to describe \"Gwóngjāu wah\" (廣州話), the prestige variant of Cantonese spoken in the city of Guangzhou (historically known as Canton). \"Gwóngjāu wah\" is the main language used for education, literature and media in Hong Kong and Macau. It is still widely used in Guangzhou, despite the fact that a considerable proportion of the city's population is made up by migrant workers from elsewhere in China that speak non-Cantonese variants of Chinese and Standard Mandarin. Though in recent years it is slowly falling out of favour with the younger generation prompting fears in Cantonese people that the language may die out. Cantonese language's erosen in Guangzhou is due to a mix of suppression of the language and the mass migration of non-Cantonese speaking people in to the area. \n\nBecause of its tradition of usage in music, cinema, literature and newspapers, this form of Cantonese is a cultural mark of identity that distinguishes Cantonese people from the Mainland Chinese. The pronunciation and vocabulary of Cantonese has preserved many features of the official language of the Tang dynasty with elements of the ancient Yue language. Written Cantonese is very common in manhua, books, articles, magazines, newspapers, online chat, instant messaging, internet blogs and social networking websites. Anime, cartoons and foreign films are also dubbed in Cantonese. Some videogames such as Sleeping Dogs, Far Cry 4, Grand Theft Auto III and Resident Evil 6 have substantial Cantonese dialogues.\n\nCantopop during its early glory had spread to Mainland China, Taiwan, (South) Korea, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. Well-known Cantopop singers include Andy Lau, Aaron Kwok, Joey Yung, Alan Tam, Roman Tam, Anita Mui, Danny Chan, Kelly Chen, Leslie Cheung, Jacky Cheung, Leon Lai, Sammi Cheng and Coco Lee, many of whom are of Cantonese or Taishanese origin.\n\nThe Hong Kong movie industry was the third-largest movie industry in the world (after Hollywood and Bollywood) for decades throughout the 20th century, with Cantonese-language films viewed and acclaimed around the world. Recent films include \"Kung Fu Hustle\", \"Infernal Affairs\" and \"Ip Man 3\".\n\nCantonese people are also known to create various schools or styles of arts, with the more prominent being Lingnan architecture, Lingnan school of painting, Canton porcelain, Cantonese opera, Cantonese music, among many others.\n\nCantonese cuisine has become one of the most renowned types of cuisine around the world, characterised by its variety of cooking methods and use of fresh ingredients, particularly seafood. One of the most famous examples of Cantonese cuisine is dim sum, a variety of small and light dishes such as \"har gow\" (steamed shrimp dumplings), \"siu mai\" (steamed pork dumplings), and \"cha siu bao\" (barbecued pork buns).\n\nAccording to research, Cantonese peoples' paternal lineage is mostly Han, while their maternal lineage is mostly Nanyue aboriginals. Speakers of Pinghua and Tanka, however, lack Han ancestry and are \"truly, mostly pureblood Baiyue\". These genetic differences have contributed to Cantonese differing from other Han Chinese groups in terms of physical appearance and proneness to certain diseases.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35896006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35896006", "title": "Chandler González", "text": "Chandler González\n\nAlexander \"Chandler\" González is the national team manager of the Cuban national football team. He was appointed on April 16, 2012.\n\nHe was appointed to the following a spell in charge of the Cuban representative team at the 2011 Pan American Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "21697377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21697377", "title": "Charles van Commenee", "text": "Charles van Commenee\n\nCharles van Commenee, written in Dutch as van Commenée, (born June 22, 1958) is a Dutch athletics coach. He began his professional career as a technical director with the Dutch athletics federation before moving to take up a similar role for the British athletics team in 2001. After a term as Performance Director for the Dutch Olympic Committee, he served as Head Coach of British Athletics from 2008 to 2012. Additionally, he has personally coached athletes to international medals, including Denise Lewis, Kelly Sotherton and Huang Zhihong.\n\nCharles van Commenee was born in Amsterdam, Holland, the son of Otto (a heavy industry worker) and Ineke (a woman of Indo Eurasian heritage). He grew up in Osdorp, a borough of the city, and from an early age he was instilled with a strong work ethic. As a young man he was interested in athletics, competing in the decathlon at club level, but several injuries forced him to give up the sport.\n\nVan Commenee first became involved in coaching at the age of eighteen; he began teaching children while studying for a degree in physical education. After completing his military service in 1981, he dedicated himself to coaching full-time and in 1987 he was appointed as the coach for the Dutch javelin team. Building upon his coaching success, in 1992 he was promoted to technical director of combined events and throws by the Dutch athletics federation. He took on other coaching responsibilities, including a brief stay in China where he met shot put thrower Huang Zhihong. He began coaching her in 1993 and at the 1995 World Championships she took the silver medal. Though this was a significant achievement for the veteran athlete, Van Commenee said that he was as much a personal mentor for Huang as he was a coach. She had moved away from home to attend a sports institute at the age of twelve and had not experienced life outside of the centre. Van Commenee had helped her adapt to living on her own and supporting herself, at the same time as he helped her to a World Championship medal.\n\nThe coach showed his stubborn and determined temperament when in 1996 he withdrew from managing the Dutch Olympic team because he felt that one of his trainees, Sharon Jaklofsky, was receiving unfair treatment. His trip to the 1996 Atlanta Olympics was self-funded and he took Jaklofsky out of the Dutch camp for training every day. She reached the finals of the competition but faulted three times, failing to record a mark.\n\nVan Commenee first met British heptathlon athlete Denise Lewis in 1994 at an athletics meeting in Valladolid, Spain. Her coach Darrell Bunn could not attend the meeting and Van Commenee was asked to help her through the event. Impressed with his work, Lewis moved to Amsterdam to train with Van Commenee in 1997. The pairing was fruitful for both athlete and coach; under the supervision of Van Commenee, Lewis went on become heptathlon champion at both the Commonwealth Games and European Championships in 1998 and won silver at the 1999 World Championships. At the 2000 Sydney Olympics she took the gold in the heptathlon, becoming the first of Van Commenee's charges to win an Olympic gold medal. However, her victory was not easily forthcoming; during the Olympic events Van Commenee was critical of her performances, urging her ever more to try harder. Despite the fact that Lewis was suffering injuries, she managed to win the event. She put much of her success and drive to win down to the fact that Van Commenee had been so strict:\n\nVan Commenee also worked with less prominent athletes, helping them improve their performances through sheer hard work—he coached Lieja Koeman at the Olympics and although the shot putter was ranked 23rd in the world she managed to finish ninth in the competition. In recognition of his achievements, he was named as the 2000 Amsterdam Coach of the Year. Following his success with Lewis, in 2001 he was appointed by UK Athletics as the technical director for the jumps and combined events. As director he took on responsibilities for British athletes including Dean Macey, Ashia Hansen and Jonathan Edwards, though they all retained personal coaches. In 2003 he asked Kelly Sotherton to join his training group and she agreed. Although she was ranked 57th in the world for the heptathlon, she won the bronze medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics. However, this was still not enough for Van Commenee and he branded her \"a wimp\" for not managing to finish in second place. Later on, he expressed regret over the timing of the comment but Sotherton stood by her coach regardless, stating: \"People always go on about that quote, but they have to remember that Charles was the one who got me in the position to be an Olympic medallist...I don't think any other coach could have got me to where he did.\"\n\nIn 2004 the position of performance director became available at UK Athletics. Van Commenee was considered for the job but ultimately decided to leave the UK in favour of becoming technical director of the Netherlands athletics team. After a successful period in the Netherlands, where he took them to their second-highest ever Olympic medal tally at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, he returned to the UK to take up the position of national head coach from September 2008.\n\nCharles van Commenee stepped down as UK Athletics head coach after the team failed to meet his medal target at the 2012 Olympics in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19257739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19257739", "title": "Chris Underhill", "text": "Chris Underhill\n\nChris Underhill, MBE ( ), is a social entrepreneur working with marginalised people.\n\nHe graduated with a Bachelor of Science from the University of London and later with a Master of Science in International Policy from the School for Policy Studies, University of Bristol. He worked for Voluntary Service Overseas in Zambia, an experience which led him into a career in development where he has specialised in leadership, disability, mental health and appropriate technology.\n\nWith regard to disability and mental health, Underhill has founded a number of organisations including Thrive (formerly known as Horticultural Therapy), a UK-based charity working with disabled people and medical professionals in horticulture, gardening and agriculture, Action on Disability and Development, a development agency targeting disabled people in the third world, and BasicNeeds, which works with people with mental disorders and their carers in Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Lao PDR and Vietnam.\n\nUnderhill has also served as chief executive of the Intermediate Technology Development Group (now Practical Action), the charity founded by E.F. Schumacher, author of Small is Beautiful. He went on to found the UK member organization of International Development Enterprises known as IDE UK and he is currently Chair of the Ashden Awards for Sustainable Energy.\n\nRegarding leadership notably in the Third Sector he is Member of the Board of Impetus, a leader in venture philanthropy in the UK and is the founding Chair and trustee of the Leaders' Quest Foundation, from 2004-2011. Formerly he was a board member of Headstrong, the National Centre for Youth Mental Health in Ireland, the Chair of Action Health which amalgamated with Skillshare International in 2000, Digital Links (retired July 2007), Friends of APD (founder Chair) and Oxfam Chair of Committee for Africa, Staff (HR), and Trustee Role and Council Structure working party whose task was the reorganisation of the Board of Trustees.\n\nHe is the joint author with Audrey Cloet of the 1982 book \"Gardening is for Everyone\" (). and is an author and contributor to a number of works which include:\n\n\"Barriers to improving mental health services in low and middle income countries\", and \"Mental Health and Development\" in \"Selected Readings in Community Based Rehabilitation: Disability and Rehabilitation Issues in South Asia\".\n\nIn 1999 he was awarded an MBE for his work with international and UK disability.\n\nIn 2012 he was elected as a Senior Ashoka Fellow.\n\nUnderhill received the esteemed Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship 2013 which recognised his commitment towards: 'altering peace and human security practices that prevent the most marginalized or vulnerable from accessing and benefiting from the system'. The Skoll Award marked the significant contribution made by Underhill to the field of global mental health through BasicNeeds.\n\nIn 2014, he was again recognised for his contribution to the field of mental health by being selected as a Schwab Foundation Social Entrepreneur of the year. The award gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to participate in various events and initiatives of the World Economic Forum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2175062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2175062", "title": "Doctor Septimus Pretorius", "text": "Doctor Septimus Pretorius\n\nSeptimus Pretorius is a fictional character who appears in the Universal film \"Bride of Frankenstein\" (1935). He is played by British stage and film actor Ernest Thesiger. Some sources claim he was originally to have been played by Bela Lugosi or Claude Rains. Others indicate that the part was conceived specifically for Thesiger.\n\nDoctor Pretorius is a renegade mad scientist who persuades Henry Frankenstein to resume his experiments with bringing dead flesh to life. An amoral egomaniac, he has no regard for human life or ethics and cares only for his own prestige as a scientist.\n\nAlong with his sinister qualities, Pretorius is responsible for a large share of the film's dark humor. He eats a picnic dinner in a crypt, trades prissy banter with the Monster and laments that the tiny ballerina he created \"will only dance to Mendelssohn's 'Spring Song.'\" He claims that gin is his only weakness. Then later in the film, he claims his cigars are his only weakness when he first meets the Monster. Pretorius also delivers the famous toast \"To a new world of gods and monsters!\" midway through the film.\n\nSeptimus Pretorius, Frankenstein's former teacher, is a tall, emaciated-looking man with an unusually large nose and devilish pointed ears. A professor of philosophy at the University of Ingolstadt, Pretorius first points young Henry on the path toward his unwholesome experiments in giving life to the dead. He himself is \"booted out\" from his teaching post \"for knowing too much.\" Pretorius seeks out his former student after learning that the Monster has survived being trapped in the burning windmill in the climax of the first film. Pretorius himself acknowledges that he may be insane in a conversation with Frankenstein (\"You think I'm mad? Perhaps I am!\").\n\nPretorius performs experiments creating life similar to Henry's. He unveils to Henry a group of various homunculi—miniature living humans which he has kept in bottles and claims to have grown from \"seed\" like cultures. Each figure represents a different character:\n\n\nHe has been unsuccessful in creating a full-sized human. He proposes to Henry that together they create a mate for his monster, with Henry building the body and Pretorius supplying an artificially-grown brain. Henry initially balks at the idea, but Pretorius reminds him that he is capable of exposing him to the authorities as the creator of the Monster who has done so much damage.\n\nLater, he meets the Monster in a crypt where he has gone to steal bodies and is dining using the top of a coffin as a picnic table. When the Monster asks him 'Friend?' he gives him the remains of his chicken. He tells the Monster of his plans to create a mate for him. \n\nThe Monster, eager for companionship of any kind, considers Pretorius his friend, and from then on is willing to do anything that the impish scientist desires, such as kidnapping Henry's wife, Elizabeth, in order to force him to help Pretorius. Henry agrees, and together the two scientists create the Bride of Frankenstein. Unfortunately, even the Bride finds her would-be husband repulsive, and the heartbroken Monster decides to end his life by blowing up the laboratory. He instructs Henry and Elizabeth to run but barks at Pretorius to stay, saying that they \"belong dead\". Before Pretorius can move, the Monster blows up the laboratory and the castle. Frankenstein and Elizabeth escape, but Pretorius's fate is not revealed.\n\nThe Monster, however, returned in the next sequel.\n\nDr. Pretorius is frequently identified as homosexual, or as near to homosexual as could be presented on-screen in 1935. (There is, of course, no direct reference to homosexuality in the film.) \"Bride of Frankenstein\" director James Whale was openly gay and frequently included camp elements in his films. He directed Thesiger (himself identified in some sources as more or less openly gay) to play the part as an \"over the top caricature of a bitchy and aging homosexual\". Gay film historian Vito Russo stops short of identifying Pretorius as gay, calling him instead \"sissified\" (\"sissy\" itself being Hollywood code for \"homosexual\"). Pretorius serves as a figure of seduction and temptation, pulling Frankenstein away from his bride on their wedding night to engage in the unnatural act of non-procreative life. The Breen Office, responsible for enforcing Hollywood's Production Code, let Pretorius' behavior pass unchallenged. A novelisation of the film published in England made the implication even more clear, having Pretorius say to Frankenstein, \"'Be fruitful and multiply.' Let us obey the Biblical injunction: you of course, have the choice of natural means; but as for me, I am afraid that there is no course open to me but the scientific way.\"\n\nPretorius appears in Kim Newman's crossover novel \"Dracula Cha Cha Cha\", as a colleague of H. P. Lovecraft's Herbert West. He appears as one of the horror movie spoofs in \"Jesus Christ Vampire Hunter\" and also appears in Allan Rune Pettersson's novel \"Frankenstein's Aunt Returns\".\n\nIn the Amicus horror film \"The House That Dripped Blood\" (1970), Geoffrey Bayldon, playing a mysterious antique shop owner, is made up and costumed to look like Ernest Thesiger as Pretorius.\n\nIn the 1973 NBC-TV miniseries \"\", James Mason portrays a Pretorius-like figure named Dr. Polidori (named for Lord Byron's real-life physician, John William Polidori, who was part of the 1816 gathering that produced Mary Shelley's novel and also the author of the story \"The Vampyre\"). Mason's Dr. Polidori enlists Victor to assist in creating the female creature Prima (Jane Seymour).\n\nThe 1986 film \"From Beyond\" adds a Dr. Edward Pretorius at Miskatonic University (played by Ted Sorel) as a dark mentor for Crawford Tillinghast (Jeffrey Combs). This Pretorius is an impotent sadist (with a room full of bondage gear) who is assimilated by \"the Beyond\" and attempts to drag others into it, boasting that the pineal gland growth brought on by the resonator is like \"an orgasm of the mind\".\n\nThe 1989 Akif Pirinçci novel \"Felidae\" and its 1994 animated feature film adaptation feature an insane Professor Preterius in the backstory performing increasingly dark experiments on the cat Claudandus.\n\nIn the 1998 independent film \"Gods and Monsters\", directed by Bill Condon, Ernest Thesiger as Pretorius is played by Arthur Dignam in a flashback about the filming of \"Bride of Frankenstein\". An earlier scene shows Brendan Fraser as Whale's gardener watching \"Bride of Frankenstein\" on television, specifically the climatic scene of Pretorius and Frankenstein unveiling the Bride.\n\nIn the 2007 \"Frankenstein\" TV movie, the character of Professor Jane Pretorius is based on Septimus Pretorius and served as Victoria Frankenstein's boss.\n\nIn the Dark Horse \"Universal's Monsters\" novel, \"The Bride Of Frankenstein: Pandora's Bride\", Pretorius somehow survives the destruction of the tower lab along with the Bride. They escape to Germany where he teaches her to become her own woman.\n\nIn \"Mary Shelley's Frankenhole\", the character Professor Sanguinaire Polidori (voiced by Scott Adsit) is based on Septimus Pretorius.\n"}
{"id": "2466633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466633", "title": "Firdaus Kanga", "text": "Firdaus Kanga\n\nFirdaus Kanga (born 1960, Bombay) is a writer and actor who lives in London. He has written a novel, \"Trying to Grow\" a semi-autobiographical novel set in India and a travel book \"Heaven on Wheels\" about his experiences in the United Kingdom. \"Trying to Grow\" was later turned FI film, \"Sixth Happiness\", for which Kanga wrote the screenplay, and in which he starred.\n\nKanga was born in a Parsi family in BombaynowMumbai in 1959. He adjusted to his disability early life, and was tough mentally. Till fourth grade Kanga was tutored at home, after which he joined the Campion School in \nMumbai.\n\n\"Sixth Happiness\" is about Brit - a boy born with brittle bones who never grows taller than four feet. It is also about the Parsi or Parsees - descendants of the Persian empire who were driven out of Persia by an Islamic invasion more than a thousand years ago and settled in western India. Parsees had a close relationship with the British during the years of the Raj. Brit is named by his mother, both after his brittle bones, and in tribute to his mother's love of Britain. The depiction of Brit's parents as ardent Anglophiles with fond memories of the Raj and WW2, presents a glimpse of a non-stereotypical Indian family. This, along with the story of a young disabled man's sexual awakening as family life crumbles around him makes \"Sixth Happiness\" an interesting exploration of modern, urban India. Kanga's creation - both as writer and performer - resists drawing the main star Brit as either martyr or victim. Brit is bright, spiky, opinionated and selfish with a razor-sharp wit. He prefers the Kama Sutra to Shakespeare and does not allow gender or disability to come in the way of his desire for love.\n\nFirdaus Kanga has presented documentaries, such as \" Double the Trouble, Twice the Fun \" (d. Pratibha Parmar, 1992), a provocative documentary drama that explored sexuality and disability. The film was broadcast as part of Channel Four's lesbian and gay series \"Out\". Taboo, another documentary presented by Kanga, explored religion and disability - for instance, the Hindu notions of karma - exploring how religion can exclude and patronize people of disability.\n\nFirdaus Kanga was born with osteogenesis imperfecta, a condition also known as brittle bones disease. This left him with several painful fractures throughout his childhood and adolescence in India. He grew up in a family of five, in a one bedroom Bombay apartment. He spoke out against the Indian socialist consensus, and was a supporter of Reagan and Thatcher politics. Kanga's first major achievement was \"Trying to Grow\" (also translated into French [Grandir] and Italian) a novel exploring disability, sexuality and culture. In India where religion still dictates most cultural acts, Kanga's novel broke several taboos - portraying disabled people with healthy, rich sexual appetites. Kanga publicly rejected Hindu notions of karma (laying responsibility for suffering at what humans may have done in their last birth) often foisted on disabled people. Kanga was one of the first few public figures in India who stood up for the views of gay people, celebrating sexuality, in a society that still criminalizes, though hardly, if ever, prosecutes homosexuality.\n\nKanga was selected to be part of The Vintage Book of Indian Writing: 1947-97 - a major anthology of the work of the most important and influential Indian writers of the last 50 years. This volume was published by Salman Rushdie and Elizabeth West to coincide with the anniversary of India's independence.\n\nKanga was born in Bombay in the westernised Parsi community, and his writing centres on dealing with disability and sexuality. \n\nHe had interview with Stephen Hawking A visit to Cambridge University this was lesson in English book\n\n"}
{"id": "54422039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54422039", "title": "Gilbert and Eleanor Kraus", "text": "Gilbert and Eleanor Kraus\n\nGilbert and Eleanor Kraus were an American couple known for rescuing 50 Jewish children prior to the beginning of World War II.\n\nGilbert and Eleanor Kraus lived in the Fitler Square neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Gilbert, educated at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, was an attorney, partner of a law firm, and president of Philadelphia Records. He founded the Doyleston Legal Aid Society, was president of the Bucks County Mental Health Society, and a member of Eagleville Hospital. He also bred Guernsey cows.\n\nThey sent their children to a Quaker school. Eleanor wrote about the mission that they undertook, but it was not published during her lifetime. Gilbert died in 1975 and Eleanor died in 1989.\n\nAfter Austria was annexed to Nazi Germany through the Anschluss in 1938, conditions became difficult for Jews and they lost their rights. Many people wanted to immigrate to the United States, but immigration policy was very restrictive due to the Depression and anti-Semitism. Since 1934, there were Jewish groups who tried, but failed in bringing Jewish children to the United States. They knew three Philadelphian Quaker men who went to Berlin in December 1938 on a rescue mission, but were unsuccessful.\n\nGilbert developed a relationship with Assistant Secretary of State George S. Messersmith, who had served as general counsel in Berlin (1930–1934) and then in Vienna (1934–1937), to focus his efforts in Vienna to rescue the children. Gilbert thought, though, that the best effort would be to work through Berlin first to have visas that were issued but unused due to death, travel to other countries, or arrest released for the children. After meeting with Louis Levine, who originally proposed the idea, and Kraus, Messersmith issued a memo to the American embassy consul general Raymond H. Geist and the State Department officials in charges of visas about the plan.\n\nEleanor took on fundraising and finding families who would take in the children. B’rith Sholom held fundraisers for the rescue mission. They raised $150,000 and obtained 54 signed affidavits from families who said that they would support the children.\n\nWith the support of B'rith Sholom, they went to Nazi occupied Austria and rescued children between the ages of five and fourteen in Vienna before the outbreak of World War II, which required them working with Jewish leaders in their community who opposed the effort and American immigration policy that make the effort difficult. Gilbert set sail for Europe in early April 1939, and although Eleanor had been warned by the State Department not to travel to Europe, she traveled to Europe after Gilbert wired her from Vienna that he needed her help. Traveling with them was a German-speaking Jewish pediatrician, Dr. Robert Schless. In Vienna, they met with individuals in the Nazi bureaucracy and at embassies.\nHundreds of parents and children showed up to apply to have the children selected for the rescue. The children selected, 25 girls and 25 boys, were the ones considered most resilient to be separated from their family, whom they might not see again.\n\nThe Krauses traveled by train from the Vienna. When the children said goodbye to their families at the railroad station they were told they could not wave goodbye, as it might be considered as the Nazi salute and could result in their arrest. In Berlin, the group received 50 visas from Geist. They met with the Gestapo to obtain the passports for the children. They then traveled to Hamburg, where they set sail for New York aboard the \"S.S. President Harding\" and arrived on June 3, 1939.\n\nThe children were first brought to B'rith Sholom's summer camp in Collegeville, Pennsylvania, which had a 25-bedroom house. They then went to live with relatives who lived in the United States or foster families. The Krauses wanted to make another mission, but after the war began they were unable to make another rescue. Related documents and photographs were donated to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.\n\nTheir story was made into the documentary \"\" (2013) by Steven Pressman, the husband of their granddaughter Liz Perle. It premiered on Yom HaShoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day. According to Pressman, they were \"the single largest group of [Jewish] children\" that were brought to the United States during the Holocaust in one group.\n"}
{"id": "42456018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42456018", "title": "Guy André Boy", "text": "Guy André Boy\n\nGuy André Boy (born May 25, 1952) is a French and American Scientist and Engineer, Fellow of the Air and Space Academy. He was University Professor and Dean of the School of Human-Centered Design Innovation and Art at Florida Institute of Technology (FIT), which he created, from 2015 to 2017. He was Senior Research Scientist at Florida Institute for Human and Machine Cognition (IHMC). He was Chief Scientist for Human-Centered Design at NASA Kennedy Space Center (KSC) from 2010 to 2016. He is known for his work on intelligent assistance, cognitive function analysis, human-centered design (HCD), orchestration of life-critical systems and tangible interactive systems.\n\nGuy André Boy is a computer scientist, an aerospace and control engineer, as well as a cognitive scientist. He obtained his PhD in automation and systems design in 1980 at École nationale supérieure de l'aéronautique et de l'espace (ISAE-SUPAERO), and his HDR (habilitation as research director) in Computer Science and Cognitive Science in 1992 at Pierre and Marie Curie University - Paris 6. His HDR thesis was titled Methods and Tools for Cognitive Human-Machine Interaction. His HDR Committee included Professors Joëlle Coutaz, Pierre Falzon, Jean-Gabriel Ganascia, Georges Duvaut, Brian R. Gaines, Yves Kodratoff, and Marc Pelegrin. He also obtained a master's degree in cognitive psychology at the University of Toulouse in 1983.\n\nHis work mainly focuses on cognition, aerospace systems and organizations since the late seventies sharing his time between academia and industry. In the early eighties, he created and led the Cognitive Ergonomics Group at ONERA. In the late eighties, he created and headed the Advanced Interaction Media Group at NASA Ames Research Center, California.\n\nHe was Founder and President of the European Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Engineering (EURISCO) in France – a research institute of Airbus and Thales Group. He led EURISCO from its creation in 1992 until its closing in 2008. EURISCO was a multidisciplinary organization made up of cognitive and social scientists, computer scientists, engineers and human factors specialists. It served students from various universities and engineering schools that were part of EURISCO's network of excellence. EURISCO focused strongly on its associations with the European aeronautical industry, research and education. In 2004, Guy André Boy co-founded the French Cognitive Engineering School ENSC: École Nationale Supérieure de Cognitique in Bordeaux, France. He taught cognitive engineering and human-centered design in several universities including FIT, École Polytechnique (Paris), ISAE-SUPAERO, INSA and ENAC (Toulouse), Paris Descartes University, Civil Aviation University of China (Tianjin), University of Valenciennes, and ENSC.\n\nIn 2008, he joined IHMC as a senior research scientist. In 2009, he became University Professor at FIT where he created and directed HCDi, which supports the FIT HCD Ph.D. and Master's programs. In 2010, he was appointed Chief Scientist for HCD at NASA KSC (under an Intergovernmental Personal Act). He advised for several NASA projects including the Virtual Camera concept and tool for planetary exploration, which he created and developed, space robotics and the Glass Wall project for the renewal of launch control rooms. In 2013, he was nominated member of the Scientific Committee of European Commission's SESAR (Single European Sky Air Traffic Management) Joint Undertaking (SJU) Program, to provide advice to the SJU Executive Director, drafting of scientific opinions and provision of scientific advice.\n\nBoy was inducted as a Fellow of the Air and Space Academy (Europe) in 2006, and a Senior Member of the Association for Computing Machinery in 2009.\n\nBoy's early cognitive engineering research was on the first Glass cockpit, conducted with Airbus and the French aviation authorities (1980–1984). He actively contributed to develop human-centered methods for cockpit design and certification of the first two crewmen cockpits. This early leadership in cognitive engineering led to an award from the French Ministry of Defense that supported part of his work at NASA Ames, where he developed an operation assistant system to enhance the control of the Orbital Refueling System of Space Shuttle (1984-1986). He coined the term \"intelligent assistant systems\" to denote systems that support human operators in safety-critical situations.\n\nAfter two years in France (1987–1988), where he co-founded a start-up company on intelligent assistant systems, Dialogics/Dialexis, he returned to NASA Ames to work on electronic documentation for the Space Station Freedom (1989–1991). During this period, influenced by Douglas Englebart, who he worked with for a while, he developed an approach mixing hypertext and machine learning, leading to a system called Computer Integrated Documentation. This work led to a major publication on context-sensitive indexing.\n\nBack to France, he was nominated leading expert in Information Society and Technology for the European Commission. He served as an expert for the European Space Agency to establish the area of human-machine interaction and artificial intelligence (1991–1992). Creating and developing EURISCO, he became a legal expert for aircraft accident investigations (1992-1994). He then started new investigations in cockpit design and produced the Cognitive Function Analysis (CFA) method that was extensively used in industry for the design of safety-critical systems. Commercial aircraft cockpits became more computerized and generated more studies in human-computer interaction (HCI). He combined HCI and artificial Intelligence approaches not only in the aerospace domain, but also in education through the use of software agents. He also created the Group Elicitation Method (GEM) that is used for knowledge elicitation in HCD, and more specifically in participatory design. He helped in the restructuring of Air France at the highest level using GEM. GEM was used in many industrial settings, e.g., Airbus, Nokia, Daimler, Toyota Europe and in several European Integrated Projects funded by the European Commission. He collaborated to the Handbook of Human-Computer Interaction with a chapter in knowledge elicitation for the design of software agents. He wrote an introductory text under the auspices of UNESCO on theories of human cognition to better understand the co-adaptation of people and technology, in knowledge management, organizational intelligence and learning, and complexity. He coordinated the French Handbook of Cognitive Engineering: A Human-Computer Interaction and Cognition (Traité d'Ingénierie Cognitive: IHM et Cognition).\n\nHe then contributed to develop the field of HCI in France, and was Co-Founder of AFIHM, the French national equivalent of Association for Computing Machinery SIGCHI. He co-founded the first French ACM SIGCHI local chapter in Toulouse. He was the first French CHI paper Co-Chair (Inter-CHI 1993) with Jakob Nielsen, and was elected Executive Vice Chair of ACM SIGCHI (1995–1999), making him the first European ACM SIGCHI top executive. This service to the HCI community, together with Richard Anderson, contributed to the creation of several local chapters worldwide. Within the human-computer interaction community, he collaborated with colleagues that were influential throughout his professional life, including Jeff Bradshaw, John Carroll, Jonathan Grudin, Don Norman, Terry Winograd, among many others. In 2015, he was elected Co-Chair of the INCOSE Human-Systems Integration Working Group.\n\nHe also founded the HCI-Aero (Human-Computer Interaction in Aerospace) conference series in cooperation with ACM-SIGCHI, the International Ergonomics Association and the Air and Space Academy (Program Chair, 1998-2014). HCI-Aero conferences followed the Human-Machine Interaction and Artificial Intelligence in Aerospace conference series, also created by Boy (1986–1995). HCI-Aero conferences have become a major reference in the field of HCI in Aerospace (full papers are indexed in the ACM Digital Library). He also created the Technical Committee on Human-Factors and Ergonomics of the International Ergonomics Association (IEA), which he leads since 2008.\nHe scientifically led two main projects regarding safety and human-computer interaction in aeronautics: DIVA, a European project that tried to understand aircrew's awareness of both aircraft internal states and external situations using cognitive function analysis (1998-2001); and PAUSA, a French national project on authority distribution in air traffic management that contributed to the emergence of the Orchestra model for socio-cognitive analysis of multi-agent life-critical systems (2006-2008). This model and the development of HCDi led to the publication of the book, Orchestrating Human-Centered Design where he promotes education and training of leaders who understand technology, organizations and people (the TOP model). This book presents a humanist approach to design, engineering and more globally education. With Jen Narkevicius, he proposed a unification of HCD and systems engineering for a better definition of human-systems integration. He extended this HCD research effort on safety-critical systems to nuclear power plant control and management with two of his Ph.D. students. His research work is globally summarized in the discussion on cognitive engineering he had with , a former Experimental Test Pilot of Concorde, and his dedication to automation, aerospace and education. Influenced by the work of Hiroshi Iishii, he proposed the shift from automation to tangible interactive objects. He has participated in NASA Blue Sky Study Groups for the \"Small Pressurized Rover,\" (later called the \"Lunar Electric Rover\"). In 2012, he was the director of the International Space University Space Studies Program FIT/NASA-KSC local organizing committee and the chair of the team project of \"what space can contribute to global STEM education.\" The same year, he gave a TEDx talk on \"Human-Centered Design: the STEAM Renaissance\". He continues to work on risk taking and wrote an interdisciplinary book on the topic published by the Air and Space Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "27602396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602396", "title": "Ilija Čarapić", "text": "Ilija Čarapić\n\nIlija Čarapić (, ), was the first Mayor of Belgrade, Serbia. He was born in 1792 in Beli Potok, near Avala, and died in 1844. He was son of the Voyvode Vasa Čarapić and the brother-in-law of Karađorđe, appointed as Voyvode or Duke of Grocka when he was only 18 years old after his uncle, Voyvode Tanasije Čarapić, who died in Prahovo, near Negotin.\n\nVojvoda Ilija Čarapić, with his wife Stamenka Karađorđević had no children. Ilija was the stepfather of Stamenka's daughter Jelena Ristić, whom he married to Đorđe Radojlović, the founder of Radojlović family.\n\n"}
{"id": "22130203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22130203", "title": "Ilona and Judit Gófitz", "text": "Ilona and Judit Gófitz\n\nIlona and Judit Gófitz (Hungarian: \"Gófitz Ilona\" és \"Judit\"; in contemporary publications: \"Helen\" and \"Judith of Szőny\"), also known as the Hungarian Sisters, were conjoined twins from Szőny, Hungary who lived from October 19, 1701 to February 8, 1723. The sisters, who were pygopagus (joined at the pelvis), were examined by doctors and exhibited to curious crowds throughout Europe. At the age of 9, the pair retired to a convent in Presburg, Kingdom of Hungary where they spent the rest of their lives. They died within hours of each other.\n\nAfter seeing them in London, Alexander Pope wrote a poem about the sisters:\n\n<poem>\nTwo sisters wonderful to behold, who have thus grown as one,\nThat naught their bodies can divide, no power beneath the sun.\nThe town of Szoenii gave them birth, hard by far-famed Komorn,\nWhich noble fort may all the arts of Turkish sultans scorn.\nLucina, woman's gentle friend, did Helen first receive;\nAnd Judith, when three hours had passed, her mother’s womb did leave.\n\nOne urine passage serves for both; one anus, so they tell;\nThe other parts their numbers keep, and serve their owners well.\nTheir parents poor did send them forth, the world to travel through,\nThat this great wonder of the age should not be hid from view.\nThe inner parts concealed do lie hid from our eyes, alas!\nBut all the body here you view erect in solid brass.\n</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "55152303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55152303", "title": "John Shertzer Hittell", "text": "John Shertzer Hittell\n\nJohn Shertzer Hittell (J.S. Hittell, 25 December 1825 – 8 March 1901) was an American author, historian, and journalist of the United States during the Golden Age of Free Thought. Hittell wrote on a wide variety of topics including history, mining, Christianity, Pantheism, phrenology, morality, and politics. He is best known for his works \"A History of The City of San Francisco and Incidentally of the State of California (1878)\" and \"The Evidences Against Christianity (1856)\".\n\nJohn Hittell was born December 25, 1825 in Jonestown, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania to Catherine and Jacob Hittell. Both of his parents were German immigrants who moved to The United States of America before The American Revolution. His family moved to Hamilton, a town in Southwestern Ohio, in 1832.\n\nHis brother Theodore H. Hittell was an author and historian who met and wrote about the life of John \"Grizzly\" Adams in his book \"The Adventures of James Capen Adams, Mountaineer and Grizzly Bear Hunter of California\".\n\nStarting in 1839, Hittell attended Miami University and learned Latin, Greek, French, Mathematics, Chemistry, and Rhetoric. He obtained a Masters of the Arts degree in 1843. After graduating, Hittell decided to go into Law and entered the office of John Woods, a leading attorney in Hamiltin. His studies were interrupted by dyspepsia and headaches which Hittell attempted to cure by long walks and working on a farm in Hake County, Indiana.\n\nIn the spring of 1849 during the excitement of the Gold Rush he left the bank of the Missouri River with a company of adventurers en route to California. They arrived at the Sacramento River on Sept. 19th. Hittell spent the winter of 1849 and 1850 at Reading's Diggings (Shasta County).\n\nHe would go on to write books on mining with Mining in the Pacific states of North America (1861) and Hittel on Gold Mines and Mining (1864) respectively.\n\nIn 1852, Hittell moved to San Francisco and in 1853 joined the editorial staff of the \"Alta California\", where he remained employed for the following 25 years. Hittell was the author of numerous books concerning California history, resources, and industries.\n\nHe became one of the editorial writers of the Alta California newspaper, a position which he held, though not continuously, for more than twenty-four years. He was known as a hard worker and careful student, as was soon recognized as an authority in matters relating to the industries and resources of the State. In 1862 he published a book called \"The Resources of California,\" and the seventh edition of it appeared in 1879. \"A History of San Francisco,\" from his pen, was issued in 1878. Her has written several other books, numbering at least half a dozen, and has contributed much to cyclopedias and magazines. His range of knowledge was wide, including familiarity with the literature and tongues of Germany, France, Spain, and Italy.\n\nHe has been credited with being among the group of people to name Lake Tahoe.\n\nHittell owned land on Mount Diablo in a location known as Deer Flat. In 1873 an entrepreneur known as J.S. Hall, who had owned and conducted the famous Summit and Tip-Top House in Washington, approached Hittell about building a hotel, and constructing a carriage road to the summit of Mount Diablo. The two failed to come to satisfactory terms, with Hall finding a new place for the construction.\n\nIn 1867 Hittell filed a patent for a new Washing Machine which he described as \"consisting of an upright paddle-wheel common wash-tub, and is much more expeditious than the Wash-board\".\n\nIn 1878 Hittell wrote versions of famous stories, adding in his own characters and plot. These were Regolstein: A Comedy (1878), based on \nLa Grande-Duchesse de Gérolstein and Tannwald: A Drama based on Goethe's Faust by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.\n\nHittell undertook the first English translations of two works by author Carl Reichenbach. These were Odic-Magnetic Letters and a section of the large work, The Sensitive Man and His Relation to Od, titled Somnambulism and Cramp.\n\nHittell was a known freethinker in the early Freethought movement as well as a Pantheist as described in his book \"A Plea for Patheism\". Of his more well known books is \"The Evidences Against Christianity\".\n\nUpon hearing that Hittell was to write a series of lectures against Christianity, famed early leader of the Latter Day Saint movement Parley P. Pratt sent him a letter.\nThey appeared to be good friends with Pratt mentioning in reply to one Rev. Mr. Briggs in which Pratt was defending his polygamy against attacks made by Briggs, states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7245722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7245722", "title": "Kalicharan Brahma", "text": "Kalicharan Brahma\n\nKalicharan Brahma ( 1860–1938), originally Kalicharan Mech, was a 20th-century social and religious reformer of Bodo society. He joined a new religion called Brahmo Dharma / Brahmoism Adi Brahmo Samaj faction in Calcutta around 1906, and he is reverentially called \"Gurudev\" or \"Guru Brahma\" by Bodo people of lower plains of Assam along Brahmaputra river. Other great Assamese Brahmos of the time include Gunabhiram Barua and Swarnalata Devi of the same faction, all of whom agitated against Colonialist Imperialism of any kind. The followers of this group are locally known as Brahmas in tribute to their religion and the holy river of which they are sons. He was the founder of Boro Satra Sanmilanni (All Bodo Students Union).\nKalicharan was born on 18 April 1860, at Kajigaon village in Dhubri district, Assam state of India. His father was Khoularam Mech and mother was Randini Mech. Khoularam was a timber merchant and one of the rich person of the those days, as Kalicharan grew up he became intelligent, honest and thoughtful. He became a great religious preacher of Brahma faith and brought over revolutionary changes in Bodo society by his continuous and sustained programme of reformation against the prevailing Bathou worship. All the educated and enlightened section of the Bodo community including Rup Nath Brahma lent their all-round efforts in his reformatory programme, religious propagation through spread of education and political activism.\"\n\nHis pre-primary education in his home with a private tutor Birnarayan Mech. Later he joint in Tipkai primary school. After passing the primary school he joined in Puthimari M. V. School. But when he got in class five his father was dead\n. Kalicharan had to come back to home although he did not want to give up the school.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century and the early part of the 20th century, the Bodo Society was also suffering from religious, moral and political degradation. The young Kalicharan Brahma could perceive the deplorable condition of the Bodos who were\"bogged down with evil social practices\" due to which the other commitments despised them. The Bodos who were one of the original inhabitants of the Brahmaputra valley were going through an identity crisis like the other marginalised indigenous Assamese communities. They had developed an inferiority complex. They were rapidly relinquishing their customs and traditions. The Bodo Society was disintegrating with the increase in the number of conversion to other religions. Many educated and affluent Bodos had begun to see their traditional beliefs and customs as stumbling blocks to modernization and human achievement.\n\nKalicharan realized that the Bodo Society would have to be reformed. \"He was filled with anguish and regret to see that the Bodos, although being followers of the Bathou religion were so only on a very superficial level.They showed little inclination in obeying the principle or guidelines set down by the religion. The worship of many gods and goddesses, whose number were only on the increase, was a clear indication that the people had moved away from their faith.\" They had become addicted to , Rice beer and developed bad social habits. The various social evils were sapping the vitality of the Bodo Society.\n\nKalicharan felt that the identity and unity of the people could be preserved only though a change in their Society and religion. In 1905, he came across the Sarnitya Kriya written by Mohini Mohan Chattopadhay. The book contained the teaching of Swami Sibnarayan Paramahansa. Kalicharan became convinced that the adoption of the Brahma religion would be able to guide the Bodos towards progress and development and put a stop to the religious conversions. Thus at the age of 39, he got ordained into the folds of Brahmaism by Swami Sibnarayan at his residence in Kolkata. He returned to his native village with a determination to spread the religion among the Bodos. According to Bidyasagar Narzary and Malabika Mitra's Journey Towards Enlightenment \" The basic ideology of Brahmaism on which the religion was based was that there was only one God. In Brahma religion this God is worshipped in the form of fire is of primordial importance\". \"Fire is Brahma and Brahma gives life to the entire Earth and all its beings. Brahma is Universal, endless and all encompassing. Where there is Brahma, there can be found Satya or Truth.\"\n\nHe was died on 8 May 1938 due to old age in his village at the age of 78.\n"}
{"id": "18534380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18534380", "title": "List of Miss Venezuela contestants", "text": "List of Miss Venezuela contestants\n\nThis is a list of contestants in the Miss Venezuela pageant:\n\n"}
{"id": "46469822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46469822", "title": "List of People's Artists of the Azerbaijan SSR", "text": "List of People's Artists of the Azerbaijan SSR\n\nThis is a list of People's Artists of Azerbaijan which before 1990 was named People's Artist of the Azerbaijan SSR.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8831681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8831681", "title": "List of Socialist Party of Great Britain members", "text": "List of Socialist Party of Great Britain members\n\nThis is a list of notable current and former members of the Socialist Party of Great Britain. Where available, their term of membership is indicated.\n"}
{"id": "35537777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35537777", "title": "List of female explorers and travelers", "text": "List of female explorers and travelers\n\nThis is a list of women who explored or travelled the world in a pioneering way. The list may include women naturalists, sailors, mountain climbers, dog sledders, swimmers, pilots, and underwater explorers. Astronauts are not included here but in the list of female astronauts.\n\n"}
{"id": "47916850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47916850", "title": "List of women in leadership", "text": "List of women in leadership\n\nThe following is a list of women in leadership by nationality – women who are well known for their achievements in leadership.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47681567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47681567", "title": "Madaram Brahma", "text": "Madaram Brahma\n\nMadaram Brahma was an Indian poet and dramatist, who wrote in the Bodo language, a Sino-Tibetan language spoken by the Bodo people. Born in a Bodo family in 1903 at Kokrajhar in Dundhunikhata (present day Dhubri District) of the Northeast Indian state of Assam, he passed the matriculation from the local Government High School in Dhubri. His career started as a teacher and by 1932, he became the Headmaster of the Harisingha High School, Darang. In 1945 he joined the local administration, eventually becoming the first person of Bodo ethnicity to become a Block Development Officer.\n\nBrahma wrote several poems, songs including hymns and plays which started with \"Boroni Gudi Sibsa Arw Aroj\", a book of hymns and prayers written in Bodo language. His other works included \"Khonthai Methai\" (Poems and Lyrics–1923), \"Boroni Gudi Sipsa Arw Aroj\" (Bodo Hymn and Prayer Songs–1926), Raimali (Drama–1926), \"Dimapur Nwgwr Bainai\" (The fall of Dimapur, drama), \"Sadang Bairagi\" (Sadang, The Sanyasi, drama), \"Rupesri Raithai Khantai\" (Rupesri- Poems and Prose–1988) and \"Phangseao Bibar Barnwi\" (Two Flowers in the Branch). Some of his works are prescribed texts for school curriculum and civil services examination. The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest civilian honour of Padma Shri in 1988.\n\nMadaram Brahma died, aged 87, on 6 September 1990, at Rupnath Brahma Civil Hospital in his native place. A local school, \"Padmasri Madaram Brahma Mes School\" is named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "19489757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19489757", "title": "Marcel Lempereur-Haut", "text": "Marcel Lempereur-Haut\n\nMarcel Lempereur-Haut (1898, Liège – 1986, Lille) was a Belgian painter. He took drawing lessons at the Liège Academy of Fine Arts where he obtained a diploma in surveying and, after World War I he worked as a technical draughtsman.\n\nIn 1920, he joined the group publishing the \"Anthologie\" art magazine. He started his artistic career by producing book illustrations and prints, mostly inspired by cubism. He produced his first abstract art in 1921, and in 1922 befriended František Kupka. From 1932, he participated in the exhibitions of the musicalist artists.\n\nHe lived in Paris from 1945 to 1958, and participated in the exhibitions of the \"Salon des Réalités Nouvelles\". At this stage, his work mainly comprised combinations of circles, spirals and stars. His later works were mostly decorative.\n\nLempereur-Haut continued to paint into at least his late seventies, limiting himself to crayons on cardboard after a cataract operation in 1976 restricted his vision. A retrospective exhibition of his work was held in Lille in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "524299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=524299", "title": "Mariel Hemingway", "text": "Mariel Hemingway\n\nMariel Hadley Hemingway (born November 22, 1961) is an American actress. She began acting at age 14 with a Golden Globe–nominated breakout role in \"Lipstick\" (1976), and received Academy and BAFTA Award nominations for her performance in Woody Allen's \"Manhattan\" (1979).\n\nShe is also known for her leading roles in \"Personal Best\" (1982) and \"Star 80\" (1983), as well as in the TV series \"Civil Wars\", for which she received a Golden Globe nomination. Amid mental health struggles, Hemingway's career dwindled in the 1990s. She has also starred in and co-produced videos about yoga and holistic living. She published a memoir, \"Finding My Balance\", in 2002, and another, \"Out Came the Sun\", in 2015.\n\nHemingway was born in Mill Valley, California, the third daughter of Byra Louise (née Whittlesey) Hemingway (1922–1988) and Jack Hemingway (1923–2000), a writer. Her sisters are Joan Hemingway (born 1950) and Margaux Hemingway (1954–1996). Margaux, who was an actress and model, died of a barbiturate overdose at age 42 in 1996.\n\nHer paternal grandparents were Hadley Richardson (1891–1979) and Nobel Prize–laureate novelist Ernest Hemingway (1899–1961), who committed suicide four months before she was born. She was named for the Cuban port of Mariel—her father and grandfather visited the village regularly to go fishing. Her middle name was her paternal grandmother's. Hemingway grew up primarily in Ketchum, Idaho, where her father lived, and where Ernest had spent time as a sportsman and writer before he died there of suicide.\n\nHemingway's first role was with her real-life sister Margaux (also in her debut role) in the film \"Lipstick\" (1976), in which they played sisters. She received notice for her acting and was nominated as \"Best Newcomer\" for the Golden Globe Award that year. Her highest profile role came with her role in Woody Allen's \"Manhattan\" (1979), a romantic comedy in which she plays Tracy, a high school student and Allen's lover. Just 16 during filming (in the film she is said to be 17), she was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nIn her memoir, \"Out Came The Sun\" (2015), Hemingway alleged that Allen attempted to begin a sexual relationship with her shortly after filming was completed, when she had turned 18. Hemingway successfully resisted his advances.\n\nIn \"Personal Best\" (1982), she played a bisexual track-and-field athlete in a film noted for some explicit (by mainstream standards) lesbian love scenes. In connection with \"Personal Best\", she appeared in a nude pictorial in the April 1982 issue of \"Playboy\" and was on the cover.\n\nShe starred as Dorothy Stratten in \"Star 80\" (1983), a film about the \"Playboy\" model's life and murder. Reports circulated for years that Hemingway had had her breasts enlarged to play the role of Stratten, but during a 2007 appearance on the late-night talk and variety show, \"Fashionably Late with Stacy London\", she said she had had the surgery before \"Star 80\". Her breast implants were removed years later after they had ruptured.\n\nShe was also featured in \"\" (1987) as Lacy Warfield. Subsequently, released additional footage showed an expansion of her role. She also co-starred in the 1991–93 ABC series \"Civil Wars\". She was cast as the female lead in Darren Star's CBS drama \"Central Park West\" for the 1995-96 season; however, the show fared poorly with both critics and viewers, and after 13 episodes Hemingway was told that the show wanted her to accept a huge pay cut and demotion to recurring character status. She quit the series, which only lasted eight more episodes before being cancelled. In 1996, she had a leading role in the British TV movie \"September\", playing the wife of Michael York.\n\nShe has played a lesbian or bisexual woman in several films and television shows, including \"Personal Best\", \"The Sex Monster\", \"In Her Line of Fire\", and episodes of the TV series \"Roseanne\" (\"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" and \"December Bride\") and \"Crossing Jordan\". Hemingway, however, is not gay. She has said she formed a \"big connection with the gay and lesbian community\" after \"Personal Best\" and enjoys taking roles in \"cutting-edge\" productions.\n\nShe is currently the host of \"Spiritual Cinema\", a monthly television show dedicated to spiritual films. She has begun hosting a series of yoga practice videos \"Yoga Now\", with guru Rodney Yee.\n\nHemingway worked on the documentary film \"Running from Crazy\", directed by Barbara Kopple and produced by the Oprah Winfrey Network chronicling the Hemingway family's history of suicide, substance abuse and mental illness, shown at the Sundance Film Festival in 2013. In October 2013, Hemingway received a humanitarian award from the San Diego Film Festival for her role in the documentary.\n\nHemingway married Stephen Crisman. They separated in 2008 and divorced the following year.\n\nAs of early 2011, Hemingway was romantically linked with former stuntman Bobby Williams, with whom she has co-authored a self-help book. In April 2015, Williams was described as Hemingway's partner.<ref name=\"yahoo4/15\"></ref> She practices Transcendental Meditation.\n\nIn a 2013 television documentary film, \"Running from Crazy\", Hemingway, then 51, talked of her bouts with mental illness and her still lingering issues with her siblings. She spoke of her family's struggles with alcoholism, mental illnesses and suicide. (In particular she mentioned how her sister Margaux's suicide continued to haunt her.) She also made claims that her parents' marriage was abusive and unhappy, and about abusive incidents in her childhood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2118921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118921", "title": "Maxie Zeus", "text": "Maxie Zeus\n\nMaximilian \"Maxie\" Zeus is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. He is a delusional criminal mastermind who believes that he is the god Zeus and is an occasional enemy of Batman.\n\nMaxie Zeus first appeared in \"Detective Comics\" #483 (April–May 1979) and was created by Denny O'Neil and Don Newton.\n\nMaxie Zeus is a former Greek history teacher who lost his mind when his wife left him. He became a gangster and used his cunning and intelligence to rise to power amidst the chaos in Gotham City's underworld. He has fought Batman on several occasions before being committed to Arkham Asylum.\n\nBecause Maxie seemed less dangerous than the Joker, Two-Face, and other notorious Arkham inmates, Arkham's administrators did not commit him in the maximum security wing, despite repeated recommendations from Batman to do so (\"Batman and the Outsiders\" #14). Batman's concern was vindicated when Maxie escaped to form a team of Greek Mythology-based superhuman agents called the New Olympians. He attempted to kidnap Olympic athlete Lacinia Nitocris and force her to marry him and become a mother to his daughter Medea. This plot was foiled by Batman and the Outsiders, who bested the Olympians in a series of Olympic-style games.\n\nMaxie was one of the villains that escaped Arkham when Bane brought down the walls of Arkham Asylum in the \"\" storyline. Maxie's escape attempt was disrupted when he collided with a tree.\n\nSome time later, however, he was drawn into a plot engineered by the Children of Ares—Deimos, Phobos—and Eris (Ares' sister) to merge Gotham City with Ares' throne capital, the Aeropagus. The intent was to re-establish Ares' rule on earth. Maxie was killed as a result of that plot, and his sacrifice brought about Ares' return. However, their scheme was foiled by Wonder Woman, Batman and their allies, and Ares himself banished his children back to Tartarus.\n\nIn issues of \"Robin\", a vigilante called Violet was trying to track down an illegal casino named \"Maxie's\", with chips bearing a Zeus-like profile. Presumably, Maxie survived his encounter with the Children of Ares. After Violet was discovered by Maxie Zeus's guards, both Robin and Violet managed to escape unharmed as detectives that Robin was working with on the case raid the casino and arrest Maxie Zeus, who surrenders without a fight after an officer physically threatened him.\n\nMaxie returns in Kevin Smith's \"\". Apparently cured of his delusions, he has been hired by the Joker to use Joker Venom on random people on April First as an April Fool's Day joke, but instead mixes the poison with ecstasy to produce a new designer drug called \"Chuckles\". He uses the profits to fund his empire as well as building his dream of creating a public school that is run like a private school. The Joker, angry that his creation is being used for a noble purpose, swears revenge against Maxie. After witnessing the death of his nephew and a dozen other children when the Joker blows up a school, Maxie suffers a psychotic break and reverts to his Zeus persona. After Batman rescues him from an attack by the Joker at a nightclub, he visits Maxie again at his penthouse. After temporarily restoring Maxie's sanity with a massive dose of antipsychotics, Batman convinces him to confess and turn himself in to the police. This move is later revealed to be part of Batman's plan to lure the Joker and Onomatopoeia out of hiding.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, in the \"Batman Eternal\" story, Maxie Zeus is used as a host for the spirit of Deacon Blackfire as he attempts to use the spirits of the Arkham Asylum inmates to return to life only to be thwarted by Batwing and Jim Corrigan. Following Arkham Asylum's destruction, Maggie Sawyer attempts to get answers from Maxie Zeus on what happened.\n\nAn electrified, emaciated version of Maxie Zeus appears in the graphic novel \"\" by Grant Morrison and Dave McKean. Batman finds him connected to the electroshock therapy room of Arkham Asylum, perpetually receiving electrical currents, which he believes to be \"fire from heaven\". On the one occasion in the story in which he and Batman cross paths, he compares himself to the supreme gods in many mythologies. He also does not recognize Batman, warmly addressing him as \"a pilgrim\". Early drafts of the script describes Zeus as resembling his original comic book counterpart, but with female breasts and genitalia crudely drawn on his filthy toga.\n\nIn \"The Batman Adventures\" (a comic series based on the animated series), Maxie Zeus escapes Arkham Asylum several times and teams up with villains such as Lex Luthor and Ra's al Ghul to destroy Gotham. Each time, he is foiled by Batman and Robin and returned to Arkham.\n\nIn an issue of \"The Batman Strikes!\", Maxie Zeus joins a group of villains led by the Joker. However, it is revealed that this is a simulation created by Batman to train Robin. On a later issue, Maxie Zeus goes on a criminal rampage alongside Ragdoll, Spellbinder, and an Everywhere Man, but is defeated by Batgirl.\n\nIn the \"Batman Beyond\" comic series, Bruce tells Terry a secured location where he has kept some of his most disturbed rogues in captivity. Maxie Zeus and Mad Hatter were among the catatonic inhabitants. It's possible that Maxie has suffered a deal from eletro shock which could have been brought on by the crude methods at Arkham Asylum or by his delusions of godhood which forced him to wield a lightning discharging staff.\n\n\nThough Maxie Zeus does not appear in \"\", a box with his tools is found by King Shark along with Firefly's tools and Killer Moth's tools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52434366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52434366", "title": "Names of the Albanians and Albania", "text": "Names of the Albanians and Albania\n\nThe Albanians () and their country Albania (\"Shqipëria\") have been identified by many ethnonyms. The native endonym is Shqiptar. The name \"Albanians\" (Byzantine Greek: \"Albanoi/Arbanitai/Albanites\"; Latin: \"Albanenses/Arbanenses\") was used in medieval Greek and Latin documents that gradually entered European languages from which other similar derivative names emerged. Linguists believe that the \"alb\" part in the root word originates from an Indo-European term for a type of mountainous topography, meaning \"hill, mountain\", also present in \"Alps\". Through the root word \"alban\" and its rhotacized equivalents \"arban\", \"albar\", and \"arbar\", the term in Albanian became rendered as \"Arbëreshë\" () for the people and \"Arbëria\" () for the country.\n\nContemporary Albanian language employs a different ethnonym, with modern Albanians referring to themselves as \"Shqiptarë\" and to their country as \"Shqipëria\". Two etymologies have been proposed for this ethnonym: one, derived the name from the Albanian word for eagle (shqiponjë). The eagle was a common heraldic symbol for many Albanian dynasties in the Late Middle Ages and came to be a symbol of the Albanians in general, for example the flag of Skanderbeg, whose family symbol was the black double-headed eagle, as displayed on the Albanian flag. The other is within scholarship that connects it to the verb 'pronounce' (\"shqiptoj\"), cognating with Latin \"excipere\". In this instance the Albanian endonym like many others would originally have been a term connoting \"those who speak [intelligibly, the same language]\". The new ethnonyms \"Shqiptarë\" and \"Shqipëria\" emerged and replaced the older ethnonyms \"Arbëreshë\" and \"Arbëria\" amongst Albanian speakers between the late 17th and early 18th centuries. That era brought about religious and other sociopolitical changes. As such a new and generalised response by Albanians based on ethnic and linguistic consciousness to this new and different Ottoman world emerging around them was a change in ethnonym.\n\n\"Arbën\", \"Arbëneshë\", \"Arbënuer\" (as rendered in northern Gheg dialects) and \"Arbër\", \"Arbëreshë\", \"Arbëror\" (as rendered in southern Tosk dialects) are the old native terms denoting ancient and medieval Albanians used by Albanians. The Albanian language was referred to as \"Arbërisht\" (). While the country was called \"Arbëni\", definite: \"Arbënia\" and \"Arbëri\", definite: \"Arbëria\" by Albanians. These terms as an endonym and as native toponyms for the country are based on the same common root \"alban\" and its rhotacized equivalents \"arban\", \"albar\", and \"arbar\". The national ethnonym \"Albanian\" has derived from \"Albanoi\", an Illyrian tribe mentioned by Ptolemy with their centre at the city of Albanopolis, located in modern-day central Albania, near the city of Krujë. The \"alb\" part in the root word for all these terms is believed by linguists be an Indo-European word for a type of mountainous topography, meaning \"hill, mountain\", also present in \"Alps\". The \"Lab\", also \"Labe\", \"Labi\"; Albanian sub-group and geographic/ethnographic region of \"Labëri\", definite: \"Labëria\" in Albania are also endonyms formed from the root \"alb\". These are derived from the syllable cluster \"alb\" undergoing metathesis within Slavic to \"lab\" and reborrowed in that form into Albanian.\n\nTerms derived from all those endonyms as exonyms appear in Byzantine sources from the eleventh century onward and are rendered as \"Albanoi\", \"Arbanitai\" and \"Arbanites\" and in Latin and other Western documents as \"Albanenses\" and \"Arbanenses\". The first Byzantine writers to mention Albanians in an ethnic sense are Michael Attaliates (in the book \"History\") and Anna Comnena (in the book \"Alexiad\"), referring to them as \"Albanoi\" and \"Arbanitai\", in the 11th century. In later Byzantine usage, the terms \"Arbanitai\" and \"Albanoi\" with a range of variants were used interchangeably, while sometimes the same groups were also called by the classicising name Illyrians. The first reference to the Albanian language dates in the year 1285.\nThe country was known in Byzantine sources as \"Arbanon\" (Άρβανον) and in Latin sources as \"Arbanum\". In medieval Serbian sources, the ethnonym for the country derived from the Latin term after undergoing linguistic metathesis was rendered as \"Rabna\" (Рабна) and \"Raban\" (Рабан), while the adjective was \"Rabanski\" (Rабански). From these ethnonyms, names for Albanians were also derived in other languages that were or still are in use. In English \"Albanians\"; Italian \"Albanesi\"; German \"Albaner\"; Greek \"Arvanites\", \"Alvanitis\" (Αλβανίτης) plural: \"Alvanites\" (Αλβανίτες), \"Alvanos\" (Αλβανός) plural: \"Alvanoi\" (Αλβανοί); Turkish \"Arnaut\", \"Arnavut\"; South Slavic languages \"Arbanasi\" (Арбанаси), \"Albanci\" (Албанци) and so on. The term \"Arbëreshë\" is still used as an endonym and exonym for Albanians that migrated to Italy during the Middle Ages, the Arbëreshë. It is also used as an endonym by the Arvanites in Greece. Within the Balkans, Vlachs still use a similar term \"Arbineş\" in the Aromanian language for contemporary Albanians.\n\n\"Arbanas\" (Арбанас), plural: \"Arbanasi\" (Арбанаси); is the old ethnonym that the South Slavs, such as the Bulgarians and Serbs, used to denote Albanians, dating back to the Middle Ages. While \"Arbanaski\" (Арбанаски), \"Arbanski\" (Арбански) and \"Arbanaški\" (Арбанашки) were adjectives derived from those terms. The term \"Arbănas\" was also used by Romanians for Albanians. They first appear with this ethnonym in a Bulgarian manuscript dated 1000-1018, during the reign of Tsar Samuel, in which Arbanasi (Albanians) are mentioned as being half-believers (i.e. non-Orthodox Christians). The term was in use amongst South Slavs until the mid 20th century. The name \"Arbanasi\" is still used as an exonym for a small Albanian community in Croatia on the Dalmatian coast that migrated there during the 18th century. In modern South Slavic languages the term is \"Albanac\".\n\n\"Arvanitis\" (Αρβανίτης), plural: \"Arvanites\" (Αρβανίτες); is a term that was historically used amongst the wider Greek-speaking population to describe an Albanian speaker regardless of their religious affiliations until the interwar period, alongside with \"Alvanoi\" (Αλβανοί). The name was established in Greek language from the original ethnonym \"Alvanitis\" (Άλβανίτης), which in return derived from \"Alvanos\" (Άλβάνος). The name appears as the ethnonym of \"Albanians\" in medieval Byzantine sources, originally as \"Arbanitai\", (in Greek language the letter 'b' is pronounced as 'v'; hence \"Arvanitai\") and was rendered in modern Greek as \"Arvanites\".\n\nToday, the term \"Arvanites\" is used by Greeks to refer to descendants of Albanians or \"Arbëreshë\" that migrated to southern Greece during the medieval era and who currently self identify as Greeks, as a result of assimilation. Sometimes its variant \"Alvanites\" may be used instead. In the region of Epirus within Greece today, the term \"Arvanitis\" is still used for an Albanian speaker regardless of their citizenship and religion. While the term \"Arvanitika\" (Αρβανίτικα) is used within Greece for all varieties of the Albanian language spoken there, whereas within Western academia the term is used for the Albanian language spoken in Southern Greece. Alongside these ethnonyms the term \"Arvanitia\" (Αρβανιτιά) for the country has also been used by Greek society in folklore, sayings, riddles, dances and toponyms. For example, some Greek writers used the term \"Arvanitia\" alongside the older Greek term Eprius for parts or all of contemporary Albania and modern Epirus in Greece until the 19th century.\n\n\"Arnaut\" (ارناود), \"Arvanid\" (اروانيد), \"Arnavud\" (آرناوود), plural: \"Arnavudlar\" (آرناوودلار): modern Turkish: \"Arnavut\", plural: \"Arnavutlar\"; are ethnoyms used mainly by Ottoman and contemporary Turks for Albanians with \"Arnavutça\" being the name of the Albanian language. These ethnonyms are derived from the Greek term \"Arvanites\" and entered Turkish after the syllable cluster \"van\" was rearranged through metathesis to \"nav\" giving the final Turkish forms as \"Arnavut\" and \"Arnaut\". Meanwhile, in Greek the name \"Arvanitis\" was derived from the original name \"Alvanitis\" [Άλβανίτης] (in return derived from \"Alvanos\" [Άλβάνος]).\n\nIn the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries due to socio-political disturbances by some Albanians in the Balkans the term was used as an ethnic marker for Albanians in addition to the usual millet religious terminology to identify people in Ottoman state records. While the term used in Ottoman sources for the country was \"Arnavudluk\" (آرناوودلق) for areas such as Albania, Western Macedonia, Southern Serbia, Kosovo, parts of northern Greece and southern Montenegro. During the late Ottoman period, government officials used the terms \"Arnavudlar\" (Albanians) and \"Arnavud kavmı\" (the Albanian people) for the ethnic group, along with the terms Ghegs and Tosks for northern and southern Albanian ethno-cultural subgroups. At the same time Albanian regions within the empire were referred to as \"Arnavudluk\" (Albania) and the geographic terms \"Gegalık\" (Ghegland) and \"Toskalık\" (Toskland) were also used in government documents. In modern Turkish \"Arnavutluk\" refers only to the Republic of Albania.\n\nHistorically as an exonym the Turkish term \"Arnaut\" has also been used for instance by some Western Europeans as a synonym for Albanians that were employed as soldiers in the Ottoman army. The term \"Arnā’ūṭ\" (الأرناؤوط) also entered the Arabic language as an exonym for Albanian communities that settled in the Levant during the Ottoman era onward, especially for those residing in Syria. The term \"Arnaut\" (Арнаут), plural: \"Arnauti\" (Арнаути) has also been borrowed into Balkan south Slavic languages like Bulgarian and within Serbian the word has also acquired pejorative connotations regarding Albanians. During the Ottoman era, the name was used for ethnic Albanians regardless of their religious affiliations, just like it is today.\n\nThe term \"Albanesi\" was used for some Balkan troops recruited (mid 18th - early 19th centuries) by the Kingdom of Naples that indicated their general origins (without implying ethnic connotations) or fighting style, due to the reputation Albanians held of serving as mercenaries in Ottoman armies.\n\n\"Shqip(ë)tar\" and \"Shqyptar\" (in northern Albanian dialects) is the contemporary endonym used by Albanians for themselves while \"Shqipëria\" and \"Shqypnia/Shqipnia\" are native toponyms used by Albanians to name their country. All terms share the same Albanian root \"shqipoj\" that is derived from the Latin \"excipere\" with both terms carrying the meaning of \"to speak clearly, to understand\". While the Albanian public favours the explanation that the self-ethnonym is derived from the Albanian word for eagle \"shqipe\" that is displayed on the national Albanian flag. At the end of 17th and beginning of the early 18th centuries, the placename \"Shqipëria\" and the ethnic demonym \"Shqiptarë\" gradually replaced \"Arbëria/Arbënia\" and \"Arbëresh/Arbënesh\" amongst Albanian speakers. This was due to socio-political, cultural, economic and religious complexities and changes that Albanians experienced during the Ottoman era. \"Skipetar\" is a historical rendering or exonym of the term \"Shqiptar\" by some Western European authors in use from the late 18th century to the early 20th century. The term \"Šiptar\" (Шиптар), plural: \"Šiptari\" (Шиптари) and also \"Šiftari\" (Шифтари) is a derivation used by Balkan Slavic peoples and former states like Yugoslavia which Albanians consider derogatory due to its negative connotations preferring \"Albanci\" instead.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "872277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=872277", "title": "Nicky Hopkins", "text": "Nicky Hopkins\n\nNicholas Christian Hopkins (24 February 1944 – 6 September 1994) was an English pianist and organist. Hopkins recorded and performed on many notable British and American pop and rock music releases from the 1960s through the 1990s including many songs by The Rolling Stones, The Kinks and The Who.\n\nNicholas Christian Hopkins was born in Perivale, Middlesex, England, on 24 February 1944. He began playing piano at the age of three. He attended Sudbury Primary School in Perrin Road and Wembley County Grammar School, which now forms part of Alperton Community School, and was initially tutored by a local piano teacher; in his teens he won a scholarship to the Royal Academy of Music in London. He suffered from Crohn's disease for most of his life.\n\nHis poor health and repeated surgery later made it difficult for him to tour, and he worked mainly as a session musician for most of his career.\n\nHopkins' studies were interrupted in 1960 when he left school at 16 to become the pianist with Screaming Lord Sutch's Savages until, two years later, he and fellow Savages Bernie Watson, Rick Brown (aka Ricky Fenson) and Carlo Little, joined the renowned blues harmonica player Cyril Davies, who had just left Blues Incorporated, and became the Cyril Davies (R&B) All-Stars. Hopkins played piano on their first single, Davies' much-admired theme tune \"Country Line Special\". However he was forced to leave the All Stars in May 1963 for a series of operations that almost cost him his life and was bed-ridden for nineteen months in his late teenage years. During his convalescence Davies died of leukaemia and the All Stars disbanded.\n\nHopkins' frail health led him to concentrate on working as a session musician instead of joining bands, although he left his mark performing with a wide variety of famous bands. He quickly became one of London's most in-demand session pianists and performed on many hit recordings from this period. He worked extensively for leading UK independent producers Shel Talmy and Andrew Loog Oldham and performed on albums and singles by the Easybeats, the Kinks, the Pretty Things, the Move, the Rolling Stones and the Who.\n\nIn 1967, he joined The Jeff Beck Group. Intended as a vehicle for former Yardbirds guitarist Jeff Beck, the band also included vocalist Rod Stewart, bassist Ronnie Wood and drummer Micky Waller. He remained with the ensemble through its dissolution in August 1969, performing on \"Truth\" (1968) and \"Beck-Ola\" (1969).\nThe following year, Hopkins recorded \"Beggars Banquet\" with The Rolling Stones, having previously worked for them on their 1967 single \"We Love You\" and the album \"Their Satanic Majesties Request\". He also began to record for several San Franciscan groups, playing on albums by Jefferson Airplane (with whom he also performed in a one-off appearance at their Woodstock Festival concert in August 1969 following the unanticipated breakup of The Jeff Beck Group), the New Riders of the Purple Sage and the Steve Miller Band.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1970, Hopkins was a full member of Quicksilver Messenger Service, appearing on \"Shady Grove\" (1969), \"Just for Love\" (1970) and \"What About Me\" (1970). In 1975, he contributed to the \"Solid Silver\" reunion album as a session musician.\n\nBy this point Hopkins was one of Britain's best-known session players, particularly through his work with the Rolling Stones and after playing electric piano on The Beatles' \"Revolution\" – a rare occasion when an outside rock musician appeared on a Beatles recording. Further raising his profile, he contributed to several Harry Nilsson albums in the early 1970s, including \"Nilsson Schmilsson\" and \"Son of Schmilsson\", and recordings by Donovan.\n\nHopkins played with the Rolling Stones on their studio albums from \"Between the Buttons\" in 1967 through \"Tattoo You\" in 1981. Among his contributions, he supplied the prominent piano parts on \"We Love You\" and \"She's a Rainbow\" (both 1967), \"Sympathy for the Devil\" (1968), \"Monkey Man\" (1969), \"Sway\" (1971), \"Loving Cup\" and \"Ventilator Blues\" (1972), \"Angie\" (1973), \"Time Waits for No One\" (1974) and \"Waiting on a Friend\" (1981). When working with the band during their critical and commercial zenith in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Hopkins tended to be employed on a wide range of slower ballads, uptempo rockers and acoustic material; conversely, longtime \"de facto\" Stones keyboardist Ian Stewart only played on traditional major key blues rock numbers of his choice, while Billy Preston often featured on soul- and funk-influenced tunes. Hopkins' work with the Rolling Stones is perhaps most prominent on their 1972 studio album, \"Exile on Main St.\", where he contributed in a variety of musical styles.\n\nAlong with Ry Cooder, Mick Jagger, Bill Wyman and Charlie Watts, Hopkins released the 1972 album \"Jamming with Edward!\" It was recorded in 1969, during the Stones' \"Let It Bleed\" sessions, when guitarist Keith Richards was not present in the studio. The eponymous \"Edward\" was an alias of Nicky Hopkins derived from studio banter with Brian Jones. It was incorporated into the title of an outstanding Hopkins instrumental performance (\"Edward, the Mad Shirt Grinder\") released on \"Shady Grove\" in December 1969. Hopkins also contributed to the \"Jamming With Edward!\" cover art.\n\nHopkins was added to the Rolling Stones touring line-up for the 1971 Good-Bye Britain Tour, as well as the notorious 1972 North American tour and the 1973 Pacific tour. He contemplated forming his own band with multi-instrumentalist Pete Sears and drummer Prairie Prince around this time but decided against it after the Stones tour. Hopkins failed to make the Rolling Stones' 1973 European tour due to ill health and, aside from a guest appearance in 1978, did not play again with the Stones live on stage.\n\nHopkins was invited in 1965 by producer Shel Talmy to record with The Kinks. He recorded 4 studio albums: \"The Kink Kontroversy\" (1965), \"Face to Face\" (1966), \"Something Else by The Kinks\" (1967) and \"The Kinks Are the Village Green Preservation Society\" (1968).\n\nThe relationship between Hopkins and the Kinks deteriorated after the release of \"The Kinks Are the Village Green Preservation Society\", however. Hopkins maintained that \"about seventy percent\" of the keyboard work on the album was his, and was incensed when Ray Davies apparently credited himself for the majority of the keyboard playing.\n\nDespite Hopkins' ensuing grudge against him, Davies spoke positively of his contributions in a \"New York Times\" interview in 1995:\n\nNicky, unlike lesser musicians, didn't try to show off; he would only play when necessary. But he had the ability to turn an ordinary track into a gem – slotting in the right chord at the right time or dropping a set of triplets around the back beat, just enough to make you want to dance. On a ballad, he could sense which notes to wrap around the song without being obtrusive. He managed to give \"Days,\" for instance, a mysterious religious quality without being sentimental or pious.\n\nNicky and I were hardly bosom buddies. We socialized only on coffee breaks and in between takes. In many ways, I was still in awe of the man who in 1963 had played with the Cyril Davies All Stars on the classic British R & B record, \"Country Line Special.\" I was surprised to learn that Nicky came from Wembley, just outside of London. With his style, he should have been from New Orleans, or Memphis.\n\n… His best work in his short spell with the Kinks was on the album \"Face to Face.\" I had written a song called \"Session Man,\" inspired partly by Nicky. Shel Talmy asked Nicky to throw in \"something classy\" at the beginning of the track. Nicky responded by playing a classical- style harpsichord part. When we recorded \"Sunny Afternoon,\" Shel insisted that Nicky copy my plodding piano style. Other musicians would have been insulted but Nicky seemed to get inside my style, and he played exactly as I would have. No ego. Perhaps that was his secret.\n\nIn 1969, Hopkins was a member of the short-lived Sweet Thursday, a quintet comprising Hopkins, Alun Davies (Cat Stevens), Jon Mark, Harvey Burns and Brian Odgers. The band completed their eponymous debut album; however, the project was doomed from the start. Their American record label, Tetragrammaton Records, abruptly declared bankruptcy (by legend, the same day the album was released) with promotion and a possible tour never happening.\n\nHe released his second solo album (\"The Tin Man Was a Dreamer\") in 1973 under the aegis of producer David Briggs, best known for his work with Neil Young and Spirit. Other musicians appearing on the album include George Harrison (credited as \"George O'Hara\"), Mick Taylor of the Rolling Stones and Prairie Prince. Re-released by Columbia in 2004, the album features rare Hopkins vocal performances.\n\nIn August 1975, he joined the Jerry Garcia Band, envisaged as a major creative vehicle for the guitarist during the mid-seventies hiatus of the Grateful Dead. His increasing use of alcohol precipitated several erratic live performances, resulting in him leaving the group by mutual agreement after a December 31 appearance.\n\nHis third solo album, entitled \"No More Changes\", was also released in 1975. Appearing on the album are Hopkins (lead vocals and all keyboards), David Tedstone (guitars), Michael Kennedy (guitars), Rick Wills (bass), and Eric Dillon (drums and percussion), with back-up vocals from Kathi McDonald, Lea Santo-Robertie, Doug Duffey and Dolly. A fourth album, \"Long Journey Home\", has remained unreleased. He also released three soundtrack albums in Japan between 1992 and 1993, \"The Fugitive\", \"Patio\" and \"Namiki Family\".\n\nDuring 1979-1989, he was playing and touring with Los Angeles-based Night, who had a hit with a cover of Walter Egan's \"Hot Summer Nights\".\n\nHopkins, given his long association with The Who, was a key instrumentalist on the soundtrack for the 1975 Ken Russell film, \"Tommy\". Hopkins played piano on most of the tracks, and is acknowledged in the album's liner notes for his work on the arrangements for most of the songs.\n\nIn addition to recording with the Beatles in 1968, Hopkins worked with each of the four when they went solo. Between 1970 and 1975, he appeared on many projects by John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr, making key contributions to the critically acclaimed solo albums \"Imagine\", \"Living in the Material World\" and \"Ringo\". He worked only once with Paul McCartney, on the latter's 1989 album \"Flowers in the Dirt\".\n\nHopkins lived in Mill Valley, California, for several years. During this time he worked with several local bands and continued to record in San Francisco. One of his complaints throughout his career was that he did not receive royalties from any of his recording sessions, because of his status at the time as merely a \"hired hand\", as opposed to pop stars with agents. He received songwriting credit for his work with the Jeff Beck Group, including an instrumental, \"Girl From Mill Valley\", on the 1969 album \"Beck-Ola\". Only Quicksilver Messenger Service, through its manager Ron Polte and its members, gave Hopkins an ownership stake. Towards the end of his life he worked as a composer and orchestrator of film scores, with considerable success in Japan.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Hopkins credited the Church of Scientology-affiliated Narconon rehabilitation program with vanquishing his drug and alcohol addictions; he ultimately remained a Scientologist for the rest of his life. As a result of his religious affiliation, he contributed to several of L. Ron Hubbard's musical recordings.\n\nHopkins died on 6 September 1994, at the age of 50, in Nashville, Tennessee, from complications resulting from intestinal surgery related to his lifelong battle with Crohn's disease. At the time of his death, he was working on his autobiography with Ray Coleman. He is survived by his wife, Moira.\nSongwriter and musician Julian Dawson collaborated with Hopkins on one recording, the pianist's last, in spring 1994, a few months before his death. After Ray Coleman's death, the connection led to Dawson working on a definitive biography of Hopkins, first published by Random House in German in 2010, followed in 2011 by the English-language version with the title \"And on Piano … Nicky Hopkins\" (a hardback in the UK via Desert Hearts, and a paperback in North America via Backstage Books/Plus One Press).\n\nOn 8 September 2018, the Nicky Hopkins \"piano\" park bench memorial, crowdfunded through PledgeMusic, was unveiled in Perivale Park near Hopkins' birthplace. The campaign offered the opportunity for pledgers to have their name inscribed on the bench and contribute towards funding a music scholarship at London’s Royal Academy of Music, where Hopkins himself won a scholarship in the 1950s. Names that have pledged in the campaign include Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Charlie Watts, Ronnie Wood, Bill Wyman, Yoko Ono Lennon, Roger Daltrey, Jimmy Page, Johnnie Walker and Kenney Jones. A quote about Hopkins by Bob Harris appears on the bench.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2478270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2478270", "title": "Ovonramwen", "text": "Ovonramwen\n\nOvonramwen Nogbaisi (ruled 1888 – 1897), also called Overami, was the Ọba (king) of the Kingdom of Benin up until the British punitive expedition of 1897.\n\nBorn in circa 1857, he was the son of Ọba Adọlọ, he took the name Ovọnramwẹn Nọgbaisi at his enthronement in 1888, every Ọba took a new name at his coronation, the name translates as Ovọnramwẹn meaning \"The Rising Sun\" and Nọgbaisi meaning \"which spreads over all\".\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the Kingdom of Benin had managed to retain its independence and the Ọba exercised a monopoly over trade which the British found irksome. The territory was coveted by an influential group of investors for its rich natural resources such as palm-oil, rubber and ivory. The kingdom was largely independent of British control, and pressure continued from figures such as Vice-Consul James Robert Phillips and Captain Gallwey (the British vice-Consul of Oil Rivers Protectorate) who were pushing for British annexation of the Benin Empire and the removal of the Ọba.\n\nA British invasion force headed by Phillips set out to overthrow the Ọba in 1896. The force's weapons were hidden in baggage, with troops disguised as bearers. Phillips plan was to gain access to Ovonramwen's palace by announcing that he intended to negotiate. Ovonramwen's messengers issued several warnings not to violate Benin territorial sovereignty, claiming he was unable to see Phillips due to ceremonial duties. Having been warned on several further occasions on the way, Phillips sent his stick to the Ọba, a deliberate insult designed to provoke the conflict that would provide an excuse for British annexation. Phillip's expedition was ambushed and all but two were killed. Subsequently a military operation against Benin in 1897 led by Harry Rawson resulted in the burning of Benin City, the destruction and looting of the royal palaces, and the deaths of untold numbers of its inhabitants. Although the British had orders to hang the Ọba, Ovonramwen escaped, but returned to the city to formally surrender on 5 August 1897. When Ovọnramwẹn returned to the city, after six months spent in evading capture in the forest, he was richly dressed and laden with coral beads and accompanied by an entourage of seven hundred to eight hundred people. He attempted to escape exile by offering Consul General Ralph Moor 200 puncheons (barrels) of oil worth £1500 [£183000.00 today] and to disclose where his 500 ivory tusks were buried [today's value: Up to £275,625,500.00] however this offer was dismissed as Mr. Moor had already discovered them.\n\nOvonramwen was exiled to Calabar with two of his wives, Queen Egbe and Queen Aighobahi, and died there around the turn of the new year in 1914. Ovọnramwẹn was eventually buried in the grounds of the royal palace in Benin City. He was succeeded by his first son and legitimate heir, Prince Aguobasimwin, who ruled as Eweka II. \n\n"}
{"id": "13159865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13159865", "title": "Pat Simon", "text": "Pat Simon\n\nStanley Patrick Evelyn Simon (14 March 1920 – 22 May 2008), known as Pat Simon, was a veteran English Master of Wine, wine-merchant and writer on wine.\n\nAfter six years at Gresham's School, Holt (1931–1937), and military service during the Second World War, Simon entered the wine trade in 1948, importing wines chiefly from France, Germany, Italy, and Portugal, but later also from Spain, South Africa, Australia and the United States. Going into business on his own account as an importer and wholesaler of wines (trading as Pat Simon Wines Ltd), by 1969 he rose to the rank of Master of Wine of the Institute of Masters of Wine and also became a frequent contributor to specialist periodicals.\n\nSimon's book \"Wine-tasters' Logic\" (2000) distils the experiences of fifty years of wine-tasting and is also full of anecdotes of the wine trade of long ago. The first part of the book discusses the concepts behind wine-tasting, exploring areas like aroma, balance, finish, and tannin. The second part contains details on, choice of glasses and instructions for decanting wine correctly. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2795500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795500", "title": "Rachid Ramda", "text": "Rachid Ramda\n\nRachid Ramda (born 29 September 1969, El Ogla, also known as \"Abou Farès\") is the convicted man behind the 1995 terror bombings in French public transportation systems. He has denied these accusations.\n\nRachid Ramda was born in El Ogla on 29 September 1969, in the East of Algeria. He is from a Berber Chaouia family, although Arabic is his native language. All the members of his family are well educated: one of his brothers is an architect-engineer, another a computer scientist. Ramda studied architecture at the Institut Polytechnique. He became a supporter of the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) when it was founded in 1988; his literature teacher was a co-founder of the FIS. According to his own statements, he left Algeria in 1989 for Pakistan, thus before the cancellation of the elections which set the stage for the Algerian Civil War, and before the formation of the Armed Islamic Group (GIA). In Pakistan he entered into contact with Muslim humanitarian NGOs and other NGOs (including Doctors Without Borders) assisting Afghan refugees. He then abandoned his architectural training. He went to London, where he wrote articles for the \"El Ansar\" newspaper. Ramda has denied the allegations of French justice that \"El Ansar\" was the official mouthpiece of the GIA.\n\nIn 1993, Ramda was sentenced to the death in Algeria \"in absentia\" for a terrorist attack at the airport of Algiers, which had killed 9 and wounded 123. \n\nRamda was granted refugee status in the United Kingdom. After the 1995 terror bombings in Paris, he was arrested in London on 4 November 1995, accused by French prosecutors of having funded the bombings and of being their mastermind. Ramda has denied the funding role, citing a report from the Scotland Yard inspector John MacMillan of 23 November 1995, which stated that \"no bank accounts have been identified which could be associated with Ramda, or the other possible names used.\" He did, however, admit that his fingerprints had been found on a Western Union money order of 38,000 Francs sent to the bomber Ait Ali Belkacem. Ramda claimed that he did not know Ait Ali Belkacem; he has also denied knowing the other bomber, Boualem Bensaid. Ramda was detained in the HSSU high security unit of Belmarsh prison, which he has compared to Guantanamo.\n\nFrance requested the extradition of Ramda from the United Kingdom; Ramda successfully fought extradition until 2005. The refusal of British authorities to extradite Ramda was a point of contention between France and the UK, with many in France and elsewhere alleging that the British government was deliberately lenient to Islamist terrorists operating outside of the UK in order to buy peace in the UK (the alleged \"Londonistan\" policy). In fact, British ministers repeatedly tried to extradite Ramda, but had their decisions overturned by the British High Court. The July 2005 London bombings changed sentiment and paved the way for Ramda's extradition in December 2005.\n\nSupporters of Ramda characterise him as an asylum seeker held for ten years in UK prisons without charge or trial and claim that this is a clear miscarriage of justice. Detractors note that in the legal sense, Ramda's stay in various UK prisons was not just entirely voluntary, but costly to the British taxpayer. Despite never paying a penny in tax, he was given access to free legal aid for 10 years, whereas he could at any point give up fighting extradition and stand trial in France . Ramda states that he had been fighting extradition because of his fears of mistreatment of Muslims in the French justice system.\n\nAfter exhausting all his appeals, Ramda was handed over to French custody on 1 December 2005. Transferred to the \"Palais de Justice\" of Paris, he was formally informed of four indictments laid against him by the French justice: one for criminal association with a terrorist organisation (specifically for providing funding to the Algerian Armed Islamic Group, or GIA), and three in relation to three terrorist attacks in Paris in 1995. The former, being a \"délit\", i.e. a crime of intermediate seriousness, would be tried in the Tribunal Correctionnel; and the latter three, considered felonies (that is, carrying a possible sentence of more than 10 years) in the Cour d'assises.\n\nOn 29 March 2006 Ramda was convicted of criminal association with a terrorist organisation and sentenced to ten years in prison by the Tribunal Correctionel, the maximum possible sentence. He had refused to co-operate in his own defense. This sentence was confirmed by the Appeal Court in December 2006.\n\nRamda has been accused of being one of the masterminds of the Algerian radical Islamist movement, and one of the main personalities of the Algerian Armed Islamic Group (GIA). Others point out that his young age at the time of his arrest (25) and possible links with other, more senior, Islamic fundamentalists as indicatie that he is only a low level functionary. Ramda has rejected these accusations in an October 2007 interview in \"Libération.\"\n\nThe prosecution has showed his fingerprints were on a Western Union money order of 38,000 Francs sent to the bomber Ait Ali Belkacem. Ramda claims that he did not know Belkacem, although he admits that it was his fingerprints on the money order. He claims that the prosecution has given a false interpretation of this evidence. Further evidence submitted by the prosecution concerns wiretaps of phone communications between Ramda and the bombers in France, a short time before and after the bombings. According to Ramda, he has not been allowed to listen to these wiretaps, and he doubts they exist. He denied having phoned the bombers and knowing them.\n\nRamda stated that detention conditions in France were similar to Belmarsh prison, and that he was badly treated by French police. He declared that he thought, at first, that this was specific to terror suspects, but now he believes that all detainees are treated this way.\n\nAnother trial against him began in October 2007 before the Cour d'assises. The bombers Bensaïd and Belkacem were both given life sentences in 2002, but Ramda's case had been severed from theirs. He was charged of \"complicity of assassination in relation with a terrorist enterprise.\". He was convicted in this trial on 26 October 2007, and given a life sentence, with the requirement that he serve at least twenty-two years.\n"}
{"id": "38344370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38344370", "title": "Radhia Nasraoui", "text": "Radhia Nasraoui\n\nRadhia Nasraoui (; born in 1953), is a Tunisian lawyer, specializing in human rights, which militates particularly against the use of torture.\n\nIn the 1970s, Radhia Nasraoui started campaigning for human rights, when the regime of President Bourguiba banned demonstrations by students and workers. In 1976, she managed to convince her employing firm to defend students who are accused. Two years later, in the aftermath of the Black Thursday, a general strike accompanied by bloody riots and resulting in many deaths, Nasraoui opened her own firm.\n\nShe was one of the founders of the Association against Torture in Tunisia announced that 26 June 2003. Appointed president, she denounced what she sees as the \"systematic torture\" practiced in his country since the accession to power of President Ben Ali 7 November 1987.\nDue to her professional activities in favor of human rights in Tunisia, Radhia Nasraoui continued to be exposed to repression and police brutality. The U.N. Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women reported:\n\nFrom 15 October to 10 December 2003, she went on hunger strike \"to protest against government agents' burglarizing of her office and terrorizing her family and to demand that justice should be done after a physical assault suffered in July\" she put an end to the strike on the day of the commemoration of the 55th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nRadhia Nasraoui continues to be exposed to state repression until the revolution of 2011 marked the fall of President Ben Ali. During this period, she was considered as a lawyer and activist against Torture and one of Tunisia's most renowned opinion leaders of the Arab Spring.\nEven after the revolution, she continues to denounce cases of torture and mistreatment of prisoners. She is also a member of the sponsorship committee of the Russell Tribunal on Palestine which work began 4 March 2009.\n\nRadhia Nasraoui is married to Hamma Hammami, secretary general of the Workers' Party since 1981 and they have three daughters, Nadia, and Sarah Oussaïma\n\n"}
{"id": "25494110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25494110", "title": "Ramesh L. Nadkarni", "text": "Ramesh L. Nadkarni\n\nRamesh Laxman Nadkarni (1921–1995) was a Hindustani classical music singer from Jogeshwari. Nadkarni a disciple of Aman Ali Khan had composed over 250 melodies and Ragas. He was honored for his dedicated lifelong service to classical music and was awarded a fellowship by Sursingar Sansad, Mumbai. He was part of BHENDI BAZAR GHARANA.\n\nRamesh was born in Mumbai in 1921 to a Chitrapur Saraswat Brahmin family from Bankikodla-Hanehalli. His father Laxman Nadkarni was an employee of the mint (coin) facility at Hyderabad. Ramesh spent his childhood in Bankikodla. After completing his middle school, he came to Mumbai to study music. His mother Uma a devotional singer inspired young Ramesh to study Hindustani music. After graduating from the University of Mumbai, he continued his music interest to earn \"Sangeeta Pravaeena\". Nadkarni had already become a disciple of Aman Ali Khan. Ramesh was married to Sushila Balwally from Ankola.\n\nAt the age of 30, Ramesh came back to his village and served as a music teacher of the A. H. School, Bankikodla a school at his village until 1957. During his stay at Bankikodla, he taught English, and sanskrit including music at school; he kept himself busy in music programs of All India Radio (AIR), Dharwar.\n\nAt the age of 37, AIR hired Ramesh Nadkarni as a music producer in Cuttack. He spent almost two decades working for AIR at various places including Indore, Bhopal, New Delhi, Dharwar and Mumbai (1970–1981) where he retired as a director of AIR. Nadkarni wrote a biography of Mallikarjun Mansur in Kannada titled \"Nanna Ras Yatre\".\n\nNadkarni was handicapped with Asthma but he knew how to get his own way. He dedicated his life for writing and singing Ragas and melodies and died on 7 September 1995; he was 74. Nadkarni is survived by his wife, two children who live in Mumbai and disciples like Sairam Iyer, Sakuntala Narsimhan, Devendra Murdeshwar, Mahendra Kapoor and Shaila Piplapure.\n\n\nThe meaning in English of this composition is somewhat as below.\n\n\"You should practice to sing the correct notes and sing them melodiously. The words of your composition should be beautiful and well-interwoven in the rhythmic patters. I (AMAR) say that, while singing, you must constantly watch your breath. If you follow these, you would present ripples of good and enjoyable music.\"\n"}
{"id": "1225322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225322", "title": "Rob Corddry", "text": "Rob Corddry\n\nRobert William Corddry (born February 4, 1971) is an American actor and comedian. He is known for his work as a correspondent on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\" (2002–2006) and for his starring role in the film \"Hot Tub Time Machine\". He is the creator and star of the Adult Swim series \"Childrens Hospital\" and has been awarded four Primetime Emmy Awards. He currently co-stars in the HBO series \"Ballers\".\n\nCorddry was born and raised in Weymouth, Massachusetts. He is the son of Robin (née Sullivan) and Steven Corddry, who was a Massachusetts Port Authority official. He is the older brother of actor Nate Corddry. He has a younger sister, Laura Corddry, who is an administrator at Southern New Hampshire University. Corddry and his brother are both Eagle Scouts from Troop 19, located in Weymouth.\n\nAfter graduating from Weymouth North High School (1989), Corddry went to the University of Massachusetts Amherst (1989–93). According to an interview in the UMass Amherst alumni magazine, Corddry initially planned to major in journalism, but he stuck with it for just two days. English became his official major. By his second year, he focused much of his attention on Drama classes and plays including \"Torch Song Trilogy\", \"Ten Little Indians\", \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\", \"Romeo and Juliet\", and \"Reckless\". While at UMass, Corddry pledged the Theta Chapter of Theta Chi fraternity.\n\nIn January 1994, Corddry moved to New York City. His early paying jobs included working as a security guard at The Metropolitan Museum of Art and handing out menus for a Mexican restaurant. He eventually landed acting jobs, including a year-long tour with the National Shakespeare Company. He trained in improv at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in New York City, performing regularly as a member of the sketch comedy group \"The Naked Babies\" (with John Ross Bowie, Brian Huskey, and Seth Morris); and he spent two years with the sketch comedy group \"Third Rail Comedy\". Corddry's first notable television appearances were on Comedy Central's \"Upright Citizens Brigade\" (1998–2000).\n\nIn Spring 2002, he accepted an audition for \"The Daily Show\". His pieces for \"The Daily Show\" frequently included references to Boston, Massachusetts, which he considers to be his hometown. On October 4, 2005, his younger brother Nate Corddry made his first appearance as a \"Daily Show\" correspondent. On January 12, 2006, Corddry's wife Sandra appeared with him on a \"Daily Show\" segment; they welcomed their first child, daughter Sloane Sullivan Corddry, on July 3, 2006. On February 9, 2006 Corddry hosted an episode of \"The Daily Show\" due to the absence of Jon Stewart (jokingly because the show's regular host was \"in the shop\", but in fact because of the birth of Stewart's second child).\n\nOn August 15, 2006, Corddry said \"I've got like a week and a half left, all bets are off\", and then on August 21, 2006, Stewart remarked that Corddry's last day on \"The Daily Show\" would be August 24, 2006. Corddry appeared throughout the week, once filing a report from inside a toilet bowl supposedly on board an aircraft transporting John Mark Karr, and another dressed up in a 1970s fashion; Stewart remarked, \"It's his last week, and really, we're trying to come up with terrible things for him to have to do.\"\n\nDuring that last show on August 24, Corddry aired a self-produced tribute to his four years on the show, going out, as Stewart said, with a \"poop joke\".\n\n<poem>Stewart: That was a very fitting tribute, Rob. We're gonna miss you on the show.\nCorddry: Why thank you, Jon. But wherever I go and whatever I do, there'll always be a part of me here.\nStewart: Wow...that's a really sweet thing to say.\nCorddry: No no no, I'm not kidding. It's in the second floor men's room, actually. That's what you get for not giving me a proper send off.\nStewart: You're really gonna go out on a poop joke?\nCorddry: I have to stay true to myself, Jon.</poem>\n\nCorddry cites Stewart as a profound influence on his comedy, crediting Stewart for teaching him how to focus on an idea in order to find the humor in it, and says that his \"The Daily Show\" pedigree earned him the clout to make \"Childrens Hospital\".\n\nAmong the projects Corddry worked on after leaving \"The Daily Show\" was \"The Winner\", a 2007 TV series.\n\nCorddry has since made appearances on the show, both as a guest and as a correspondent. He was a guest on Jon Stewart's final episode.\n\nCorddry's played the title character in \"\" (2004) and Mac, Ben Stiller's character's best friend in \"The Heartbreak Kid\". He has also made appearances in \"Old School\" (2003, credited as Robert Corddry), \"Blades of Glory\", \"Semi-Pro\", \"I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry\", \"Failure to Launch\" and \"The Ten\".\n\nHe also appeared in \"Harold & Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay\" as Ron Fox, a neurotic and racist agent with the United States Department of Homeland Security, in \"W.\" as Ari Fleischer, and also in \"What Happens in Vegas\". In 2010, he co-starred in the John Cusack film \"Hot Tub Time Machine\" and in 2013 he co-starred in Jonathan Levine's \"Warm Bodies\" as the zombie M.\n\nCorddry hosted the 10th annual Webby Awards ceremony on June 12, 2006. He starred as the main character in the Fox mid-season comedy \"The Winner\" from March 4, 2007 until the series' cancellation. He described the show to Stuff Magazine as \"sort of like a fucked-up \"Wonder Years\".\"\n\nCorddry has appeared in a \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" episode entitled \"The Seder\" as a sex offender who moves into Larry David's neighborhood. He also appeared in two episodes of Fox's \"Arrested Development\" as Moses Taylor, an actor who plays \"Frank Wrench\", an obsessively by-the-books detective on a fictional television series \"Wrench\". Corddry has also done some voice work as Gordon the animated Devil on Cartoon Network's \"Weighty Decisions\" (alongside fellow \"Daily Show\" correspondent Ed Helms). He also appeared in a commercial for Cartoon Network's \"Ed, Edd n Eddy\" series. He also appeared in a Cartoon Network promotional ad in 2001 as an anger management therapist to the Townsville Villains of the cartoon series Powerpuff Girls.\n\nCorddry's voice appears in the History Channel production World War II in HD. He is the voice of World War II soldier and jazz musician Roscoe \"Rockie\" Blunt.\n\nCorddry wrote, directed, and starred in the web series \"Childrens Hospital\" for The WB on its online network at TheWB.com. After talks fell through with Comedy Central, Turner's Adult Swim picked up the series and began airing new episodes August 22, 2010.\n\nOn March 29, 2010, he was a co-guest host of WWE Raw with fellow cast member Clark Duke from \"Hot Tub Time Machine\".\n\nCorddry played an important role in proliferating Justin Halpern's Twitter account \"Shit My Dad Says\". An early enthusiast of the quotes made by Halpern's father, Rob tweeted a link to Shit My Dad Says which \"jump-started\" the phenomenon, helping expose Halpern's Twitter feed to a larger audience.\n\nCorddry also has starred in three commercials for the Holiday Inn in both 2010 and 2011. He appeared in three episodes of \"Community\" playing a lawyer, Alan Connor, an old acquaintance of Jeff Winger, who is also a lawyer.\n\nIn August 2011, Corddry appeared on episode 29 of the podcast \"Back to Work\", distributed by the 5by5 podcast network, where he was interviewed by Merlin Mann about his writing and acting career.\n\nIn 2012, Corddry began a recurring role on the third season of \"Happy Endings\", playing \"The Car Czar\", Jane's new boss at the car dealership. He also had a recurring role on the short-lived FOX series \"Ben and Kate\", as Buddy, the boorish owner of the bar where Kate and BJ work, also BJ's on-and-off boyfriend.\n\nAs recently as October 2013, Rob appeared again as a recurring guest on \"The Jason Ellis Show\". A talk show featured exclusively on SiriusXm Satellite Radio, Corddry accepted an invitation to host his own show airing on the soon to be launched \"Jason Ellis Channel\".\n\nSince 2015, he has starred in the HBO comedy-drama series \"Ballers\".\n\nHe participated in an episode of the podcast Heavyweight by Jonathan Goldstein.\n\nIn 2009, Corddry was nominated for a Streamy Award Best Writing for a Comedy Web Series for \"Children's Hospital\"; in 2011, it won Best Sketch/Alternative Comedy in the first annual Comedy Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1792723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1792723", "title": "Sanjay Leela Bhansali", "text": "Sanjay Leela Bhansali\n\nSanjay Leela Bhansali (; born 24 February 1963) is a Bollywood director, producer, screenwriter, and music director. One of the most successful filmmakers in Indian cinema, Bhansali is the recipient of several awards, including four National Film Awards and ten Filmfare Awards. In 2015, the Government of India honoured him with the Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian award.\n\nBhansali made his directorial debut with \"\" (1996), for which he received the Filmfare Critics Award for Best Film. He rose to prominence in Indian cinema with the commercially successful and widely acclaimed romantic drama \"Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam\" (1999), the romantic drama \"Devdas\" (2002) — which received nomination for the Best Foreign Film at British Academy of Film & Television Awards (BAFTA) — and the drama \"Black\" (2005), for all of which he received multiple Best Director Awards and Best Film Awards along with additional Critics Award for Best Film for the latter at Filmfare Awards, and multiple National Film Awards for the latter two. However, he followed it by directing consecutive commercially flop films such as \"Saawariya\" (2007) and \"Guzaarish\" (2010), however, \"Guzaarish\" received positive reviews from critics and audiences.\n\nThis changed with his adaptation of Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\" — the tragic romance \"Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela\" (2013) — opened to positive reviews and strong box office collections, for which he received several awards and nominations. His home production biographical sports film \"Mary Kom\" (2014), had him receive his third National Film Award. His period dramas \"Bajirao Mastani\" (2015) and \"Padmaavat\" (2018) rank among the highest-grossing Indian films of all time. For the former, he won the National Film Award for Best Direction, as well as Best Director and Best Film Awards at Filmfare.\n\nHe is an alumnus of the Film and Television Institute of India. He is the founder of the production house Bhansali Productions. Bhansali has adopted the middle name \"Leela\" as a tribute to his mother,\n\nSanjay Leela Bhansali was born in Bhuleshwar, South Mumbai to a Gujarati family. He speaks Gujarati at home and loves Gujarati food, music, literature and architecture. He is a Jain.\n\nBhansali began his career as an assistant to Vidhu Vinod Chopra and was involved in the making of \"Parinda\", \"\" and \"Kareeb\". However, they had a falling-out when Bhansali refused to direct \"Kareeb\". In 1996, he made his directorial debut with \"\", the commercially unsuccessful but critically acclaimed narration of a daughter's struggle to communicate with her deaf-mute parents. The film earned the Critics Award for Best film at Filmfare. He rose to prominence in Indian cinema with a triangular love story, \"Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam\", starring Aishwarya Rai, Salman Khan, and Ajay Devgan, which established his individualistic stamp for visual splendour and creating auras of celebration and festivity. The film was premiered in the Indian Panorama section at the 1999 International Film Festival of India. It was a great commercial and critical success, and won numerous awards including four National Awards and nine Filmfare Awards.\n\nHis next film, \"Devdas\", starring Shah Rukh Khan, Aishwarya Rai and Madhuri Dixit, was Bhansali's ode to the novel of the same name, which became the highest-grossing film of 2002. The film also received unanimous acclaim from the critics and won all the major accolades at Filmfare, emerging as the most awarded film in Filmfare, (tied with the 1995 \"Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge\"). At the 50th National Film Awards, it won five awards including Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment. It received a nomination for the Best Foreign Film at the British Academy of Film & Television Awards (BAFTA). It was India's submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. The film was also screened at the 2002 Cannes Film Festival. It stood eighth in \"Time\" magazine's \"The 10 Greatest Movies of the Millennium (Thus Far)\". His next film, \"Black\", starring Amitabh Bachchan and Rani Mukerji, broke his own all-time record of \"Devdas\" by garnering eleven awards, the highest number of awards ever given to a single film at Filmfare. It stood fifth in \"Time\" (Europe)'s \"10 Best Movies of the Year 2005\" among films from across the world. At 53rd National Film Awards, he received his second National award for Best Feature Film in Hindi. \"Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam\", \"Devdas\" and \"Black\" earned him multiple Best Director and Best Film Awards at Filmfare, the latter also received additional Critics Award for Best Film. In 2006, Bhansali participated as a judge on reality TV show \"Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa\" alongside Farah Khan and Shilpa Shetty.\n\nBhansali's next film \"Saawariya\" (released in 2007) was met with sharp criticism and poor collections at the box office. In 2008, Bhansali staged the opera \"Padmavati\", an adaption of the 1923 ballet written by Albert Roussel. The show premiered in Paris at the prestigious Théâtre du Châtelet and next at the Festival dei Due Mondi, where it received \"fifteen minutes of standing ovation and seven curtain calls at the end of the first show.\" Bhansali received many positive comments from international critics for his work. In 2010, Bhansali released \"Guzaarish\", starring Hrithik Roshan and Aishwarya Rai, in which he also made his debut in music direction. The film received positive to mixed reviews from critics, but could not perform well at the box office. \"Guzaarish\" earned him a Best Director nomination at Filmfare. In 2011, he became a judge on the Indian music talent show \"X Factor India\" Season 1. The same year, he also produced the musical comedy film \"My Friend Pinto\", which also received mixed reviews and tanked at the box office. In 2012, Bhansali produced \"Rowdy Rathore\", a remake of the Telugu film \"Vikramarkudu\", starring Akshay Kumar and Sonakshi Sinha and directed by Prabhu Deva. The film received mixed reviews from critics and became a major commercial success, Box Office India labelled it as a blockbuster film. The following year, he produced \"Shirin Farhad Ki Toh Nikal Padi\" which also received mixed reviews, but could not perform well at the box office.\n\nIn 2013, Bhansali directed \"Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela\", an adaptation of Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\", starring Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone in the lead roles. Some religious groups opposed the movie claiming that the former title \"Ramleela\" was misleading, because the movie had nothing to do with Ramlila, the traditional enactment of the life and story of Hindu deity, Lord Rama. The film's release had been stayed by Delhi High Court due to the controversy over its title, claiming that the movie hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus. Later the film's title was changed to \"Goliyon ki Rasleela Ram-Leela\", and eventually released in India as scheduled. However, after a week of release, Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court banned the movie's release in Uttar Pradesh. Despite the controversy and limited release, the film opened to critical acclaim and strong box office collections worldwide, ultimately earning ₹2.02 billion (US$31 million) and emerging as the fifth highest-grossing film of 2013. The film garnered several award nominations for Bhansali including Best Film and Best Director nominations at Filmfare. The same year, Bhansali debuted in television with the show \"Saraswatichandra\", starring Gautam Rode and Jennifer Winget, which he later left after few episodes.\n\nThe following year, he produced the biographical sports film \"Mary Kom\" starring Priyanka Chopra, which premiered at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival, becoming the first Hindi film to be screened on the opening night of the festival. The film became both a commercial and critical success and received various accolades along with Best Film nomination at Filmfare. At 62nd National Film Awards, Bhansali received another National Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment for the film. In 2015, he the produced action drama film \"Gabbar Is Back\" starring Akshay Kumar, which also emerged as a commercial success with positive reviews from the critics. Bhansali's next directorial venture was his dream project, the period romance \"Bajirao Mastani\" (2015), based on the love story between Peshwa Baji Rao I and his second wife Mastani. Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone played the title roles, while Priyanka Chopra played Bajirao's first wife Kashibai. The film was announced in 2003 and was constantly in the news regarding the cast, including such actors as Salman Khan, Shahrukh Khan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Kareena Kapoor and Rani Mukerji. The descendants of Bajirao I and Mastani expressed their disapproval of this film, claiming excessive creative liberty by Bhansali causing wrongful portrayal of their ancestors. A petition was filed in Bombay High Court seeking a stay on the film, but the High Court refused to interfere with its release. It received tremendous critical acclaim across the world and was listed among the best films of 2015 by several sources. Despite the controversy, the film emerged as one of the highest-grossing Indian films of all time. The film received many accolades at various award ceremonies in India. At the 63rd National Film Awards, \"Bajirao Mastani\" won seven awards and Bhansali won the National Award for Best Director. The film was featured at the 2016 \"Indian Panorama\" section of the International Film Festival of India. \"Bajirao Mastani\" was selected as India's official entry for the Best Foreign Language Film for the 74th Golden Globe Awards. The following year, he produced the Marathi film \"Laal Ishq.\"\n\nBhansali directed period drama film \"Padmaavat\", jointly produced by him and Viacom 18 Motion Pictures, and also written by him. The film features Deepika Padukone in the title role as Rani Padmini, alongside Shahid Kapoor and Ranveer Singh in the title roles of Rawal Ratan Singh and Alauddin Khalji respectively. During the shooting of the film in January 2017 in Jaipur, the members of Shri Rajput Karni Sena protested at the sets at Jaigarh Fort, physically attacked Bhansali and his crew members, alleging that he misrepresented historical facts and depicted them erroneously in the film, and also tried to vandalize the sets. On 6 March 2017, members of Shri Rajput Karni Sena vandalized the Chittor Fort again and broke the mirrors installed in the palace of Rani Padmini. On 15 March 2017, a group of unidentified vandals again attacked and set fire to the sets of this movie in Kolhapur which led to the production set, costumes and jewelleries being burnt. The film earned 30 million dollars in the first four days after its release.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7069238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7069238", "title": "Seymour Weiss", "text": "Seymour Weiss\n\nSeymour Weiss (September 13, 1896 – September 17, 1969) was a prominent hotel executive and civic leader from New Orleans, Louisiana, who was a close confidante of the legendary Huey Pierce Long, Jr. Weiss, the most loyal of the Longites, bore the same last name as the apparent Long assassin, Carl Weiss, M.D.\n\nWeiss was born in Bunkie in Avoyelles Parish and died in the capital city of Baton Rouge. His parents were Samuel Weiss, originally from Austria-Hungary and a merchant, and the former Gisella Elias, of Berlin, Germany. Seymour had three brothers: Bernard, Milton, and Julius. On January 10, 1954, Bernard and Milton died in a private airplane crash, along with Thomas Elmer Braniff, the owner of the airline, and a number of other civic leaders from Shreveport, Louisiana, and Dallas, Texas. The men had been on a private hunting trip to South Texas and South Louisiana; the plane crashed in a freak ice storm. Weiss' last brother, Julius, died later the same year on August 30, 1954, of personal health issues. Seymour was educated in public schools in Bunkie and Abbeville in Vermilion Parish. For a time he was a department store clerk in Alexandria in Rapides Parish and the largest city in Central Louisiana. He moved to New Orleans in 1916 to clerk in a shoe store. After the United States' entry into World War I, Weiss attended officers' training at Camp Gordon, Georgia, but the conflict ended before Weiss finished his training. Thereafter, he returned to New Orleans to resume work as a shoe clerk.\n\nSeymour was married twice: on April 19, 1925, to Notie \"Fay\" Turner, and then on June 12, 1963, to Elva Mae Lavie Kimball, whom he predeceased. He died in Baton Rouge and is interred at the family plot at Metairie Cemetery in New Orleans. (Plot: Sec. 34, Lot 19).\n\nIn 1923, Weiss became the manager of a barbershop at the Grunewald Hotel in New Orleans. In 1924, he became the assistant hotel manager, and in 1928, he was promoted to hotel manager. First built in 1893, and known as the \"Grunewald\" (for its original owner, Louis Grunewald), the Grunewald opened what has been called the first nightclub in the United States, a basement room decorated with fake stalactites called \"The Cave\", where one could watch dancing chorus girls and listen to Dixieland jazz that would easily drown out the soothing indoor waterfalls. In 1923, a consortium of local investors purchased the hotel and renamed it \"The Roosevelt\" in honor of President Theodore Roosevelt, who had died four years earlier.\n\nIn 1931, Weiss was named president of the New Orleans Roosevelt Corp. From 1931–1965, he was the principal owner and managing director of the Roosevelt. The Cave was closed in favor of a larger venue a floor above called \"The Blue Room\" which became a nationally prominent music venue. Weiss sold the Roosevelt in 1965. It became the Fairmont Hotel until closing following Hurricane Katrina. In August 2007, Dimension Development Company, Inc, a Natchitoches, Louisiana-based hotel development and management company purchased the property, and is currently restoring the building with a scheduled opening date of June 25, 2009. Dimension Development Company Inc, entered into an agreement with Hilton Worldwide to brand the hotel under Hilton's premier Waldorf Astoria collection. The hotel has been rechristened The Roosevelt Hotel by Waldorf Astoria. A grand opening was held in 2009. Businessman Sam Friedman of Natchitoches was heavily involved in the reopening. He is the son of the late Louisiana State Senator Sylvan Friedman. \nAlthough he had no children, he was an uncle to Seymour Weiss, II, and S J. Weiss. His wife and sister-in-law died in a car accident, leaving behind two widowers, and two motherless children, one thirteen and one three. The father, his brother, took the thirteen-year-old, S.J., and the grandparents and Seymour took Seymour, II. Seymour, his parents, and \"Little Seymour\" lived in the hotel. Little Seymour married Sally McNulty and fathered Richard, David, and John Weiss.\n\nWeiss became a political booster of Huey Long, whom he met during the 1928 gubernatorial campaign. Weiss acted as Long's chief of protocol and resolved an unwitting comical dispute that developed when the governor received a German delegation at Mardi Gras in 1930 in a pair of pajamas, a red and blue robe, and blue bedroom slippers.\n\nLong made Weiss's Roosevelt Hotel his New Orleans headquarters. It was said that Weiss made sure Long never got lost in the hallways of the large facility. Weiss was the closest of friends and a regular golfing partner with Long. He was easily considered an \"insider at Long's right hand.\" Weiss was present at the bedside of Long when he died from internal infection contracted during the attempt to remove the bullets in the assassination attempt.\n\nWeiss became treasurer of both the Louisiana Democratic Association and Long's secret political fund. During the Great Depression, Weiss had control of federal relief funds in Louisiana. He was vice-president of the Win or Lose Corporation, a controversial oil company whose structure was devised by Huey Long. On Long's death, Weiss chaired the Huey P. Long Memorial Commission and remained active in the Long machine until scandals swept through the organization.\n\nIn 1934, Weiss was indicted by a federal grand jury in New Orleans on tax evasion charges. He paid back taxes after the charges were dropped. He was indicted again on tax evasion and mail fraud charges growing out of the \"Louisiana Scandals\" of the late 1930s. He was convicted and imprisoned for sixteen months between 1940 and 1942, before he was paroled and ordered to pay back taxes. In 1947, he was given a full and unconditional pardon by Democratic U.S. President Harry Truman.\n\nWeiss was a member of the New Orleans Zoning Board and commissioner of the municipal fire and police departments between 1932 and 1936. He was also president of the board of commissioners of the Port of New Orleans from 1933–1938.\n\nHe was active in the American Hotel Association and was president of the Louisiana Hotel-Motel and the New Orleans Hotel associations. He won statewide awards for hotel management in 1952 and 1957. He was a director of the New Orleans chapter of the American Red Cross, the Chamber of Commerce, and the International Trade Mart. In 1968, Weiss chaired the committee for the 250th anniversary of the founding of New Orleans.\n\n\nA listing of collected artifacts from the estate of Seymour Weiss, donated by his second wife, Elva Weiss, can be found in the Louisiana State University Collection of \"The Seymour Weiss Papers\" Inventoried & Compiled by Sunny Stein, the Louisiana and Lower Mississippi Valley Collections, the Special Collections, Hill Memorial Library, and the Louisiana State University Libraries at Baton Rouge, Louisiana in the Fall of 1999. A listing of contents may be viewed at:\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20060902085923/http://www.lib.lsu.edu/special/findaid/s4165.html\n\n\nAn archived article from \"Time\" in partnership with CNN titled, \"For Tarpon,\" and posted Monday, May 10, 1937, is a discussion of a visit by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and references Seymour Weiss as a \"Longster\" for his close relationship with Huey Long. The article notes the Bonnet Carre Spillway, built by the U.S. government to protect against flooding.\n\nAn archived article from \"Time\" in partnership with CNN titled, \"One Down,\" Posted Monday, September 25, 1939, discusses when a scandal broke its levees in Louisiana in the summer of 1939. Governor and Senator Huey Long was dead, and his heirs: ex-Governor Richard Webster Leche, New Orleans Mayor Robert Sidney Maestri, and New Orleans hotelman Seymour Weiss, were facing government charges, including mail fraud.\n\nA commercial representation of today's Fairmount Hotel – it history under Weiss and conveniences today.\n\nBob Hope came to New Orleans on July 14, 1955, to play in a golf match at Lakewood Country Club to benefit the United Cerebral Palsy Association. His partner was to be Seymour Weiss and his opponents Mrs. Sam Israel, Jr., and Edward B. Silverstein.\n"}
{"id": "25666198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25666198", "title": "Shani Diluka", "text": "Shani Diluka\n\nShani Diluka (born 7 November 1976 in Monaco) is a pianist of Sri Lankan parents. She was among those to benefit from a programme initiated by Princess Grace of Monaco, which allowed talented children to receive special music lessons integrated into their normal schooling. She received the first prize in the Académie de Musique (Fondation Prince Rainier III). She subsequently studied with Odile Poisson, a pupil of Pierre Sancan. Enrolled in the Conservatoire de Paris in 1997, she studied with Georges Pludermacher and François-Frédéric Guy and later with Marie-Françoise Bucquet, Nicholas Angelich and Bruno Rigutto\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44156666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44156666", "title": "Steve Lew", "text": "Steve Lew\n\nSteve Lew (born 1958 in Watsonville, California) is an Asian-American community organizer, LGBT rights activist and AIDS activist.\n\nIn 1987, Lew was an organizer for the first west coast conference for Asian Pacific Lesbian and Gays. Lew also co-founded the Gay Asian Pacific Alliance Community HIV Project in San Francisco. The organization grew into a national service organization, was renamed the Living Well project, and eventually merged with the Asian AIDS project to become the Asian and Pacific Islander Wellness Center in 1997.\n\nIn 1995, Lew was appointed as a member of the Presidential Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS.\n\nLew is a currently Senior Project Director for CompassPoint Nonprofit Services in Oakland, California.\n"}
{"id": "21241215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21241215", "title": "Tanay Chheda", "text": "Tanay Chheda\n\nTanay Hemant Chheda (born 27 June 1996) is an Indian actor. He is best known for his child performances in the critically acclaimed films \"Taare Zameen Par\" (2007) and \"Slumdog Millionaire\" (2008), with the latter earning him the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture and a nomination for Best Ensemble at the Black Reel Awards of 2008.\n\nChheda is a Gujarati Jain with roots in Mandvi, Kutch who was born in Mumbai, India, where he currently lives. He used to study in Campion School, but changed to Dhirubhai Ambani International School; both in Mumbai. He attended the prestigious Choate Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, Connecticut, US. He is currently in his second year at the USC School of Cinematic Arts.\n\nHe was first seen in the movie \"\" in 2006. He has the critically acclaimed \"Taare Zameen Par (Like Stars on Earth)\" in 2007 to his name and the award-sweeping \"Slumdog Millionaire\" in 2008.\n\nIn \"Don\", he played the role of Deepu, the son of Jasjit (played by Arjun Rampal) . In \"Taare Zameen Par\", he played the role of a handicapped child who is an extremely helpful and supportive friend to the protagonist Ishaan (played by Darsheel Safary). In \"Slumdog Millionaire\", Chheda played the role of Jamal Malik, in adolescence, for which he has won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture and received a nomination for Best Ensemble at the Black Reel Awards of 2008. He portrayed the young Rizwan Khan, an autistic child, in Shahrukh Khan's film, \"My Name Is Khan\". He was nominated for the best child actor in Star Screen Awards for \"My Name Is Khan\".\n\nHe was last seen in a German film \"\" (2011).\n"}
{"id": "8178655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8178655", "title": "The Bowery Boys", "text": "The Bowery Boys\n\nThe Bowery Boys are fictional New York City characters, portrayed by a company of New York actors, who were the subject of feature films released by Monogram Pictures from 1946 through 1958.\n\nThe Bowery Boys were successors of the \"East Side Kids,\" who had been the subject of films since 1940. The group originated as the \"Dead End Kids\", who originally appeared in the 1937 film \"Dead End.\" A few of the actors previously appeared together as \"The Little Tough Guys.\"\n\n\"The Dead End Kids\" originally appeared in the 1935 play \"Dead End,\" dramatized by Sidney Kingsley. When Samuel Goldwyn turned the play into a 1937 film, he recruited the original \"kids\" from the play—Leo Gorcey, Huntz Hall, Bobby Jordan, Gabriel Dell, Billy Halop, and Bernard Punsly—to appear in the same roles in the film. This led to the making of six other films that shared the collective title \"The Dead End Kids\".\n\nIn 1938, Universal launched its own tough-kid series, \"Little Tough Guys.\" Gradually, Universal recruited most of the original Dead End Kids, so the series ultimately featured \"The Dead End Kids and Little Tough Guys.\" Universal made twelve feature films, and three 12-chapter serials with the gang. The final film in Universal's series, \"Keep 'Em Slugging,\" was released in 1943, with Bobby Jordan replacing erstwhile ringleader Billy Halop.\n\nWhen Warner Brothers released the remaining Dead End Kids from their contracts in 1939, producer Sam Katzman at Monogram acted quickly and hired several of them, including Jordan and the Gorcey brothers, Leo and David, as well as some of the Little Tough Guys, including Hally Chester, to star in a new series using the team name \"The East Side Kids.\" These films also introduced 'Sunshine' Sammy Morrison, one of the original members of the Our Gang comedy team, as part of the gang.\n\nThe original members of the \"Dead End Kids\" were now working at several studios, so these films were made at the same time that Universal was making \"The Dead End Kids\" and \"Little Tough Guys\" series. A total of 21 films were made, with the final one, \"Come Out Fighting\", released in 1945.\n\nIn 1945, when East Side Kids producer Katzman refused to grant Leo Gorcey's request to double his weekly salary, Gorcey quit the series, which then ended immediately. Bobby Jordan then suggested a meeting with his agent, Jan Grippo. Grippo, Gorcey, and Hall formed Jan Grippo Productions, revamped the format, and rechristened the series \"The Bowery Boys.\" (The earlier films's credits appear as \"Leo Gorcey \"and\" The Bowery Boys\".) Gorcey, who owned 40 percent of the company, starred, produced, and contributed to the scripts. The new series followed a more established formula than the prior incarnations of the team, with the gang usually hanging out at Louie's Sweet Shop (at 3rd & Canal St.) until an adventure came along.\n\nThe original main characters were Terrence Aloysius \"Slip\" Mahoney (Leo Gorcey), Horace Debussy \"Sach\" Jones (Huntz Hall), Bobby (Bobby Jordan), Whitey (Billy Benedict), and Chuck (David Gorcey, sometimes billed as David Condon). \"Sunshine\" Sammy Morrison, \"Scruno\" in the East Side Kids films, declined the invitation to rejoin the gang. (He later stated in an interview that he \"didn't like the setup\", possibly referring to the idea of Gorcey and Hall being in the forefront, and being paid much more than the other members.) When Bobby Jordan quit the series for the same reason, his character was replaced by Butch Williams, with former East Side Kids Bennie Bartlett and Buddy Gorman alternating in the role. The proprietor of the malt shop where they hung out was the panicky Louie Dumbrowski (Bernard Gorcey, Leo's and David's real-life father).\n\nLike the previous incarnations of the team, the members went through a number of changes over the course of the series. Thirteen actors were members of the team at one time or another. Bobby Jordan, an original Dead End Kid, appeared in the first eight films, but left after being injured in an elevator accident. Jordan was also unhappy with the direction of the series, which favored Gorcey and Hall, and limited the participation of the other gang members.\n\nGabriel Dell returned in the fourth entry, \"Spook Busters\" (1946), as \"Gabe Moreno,\" a former member of the gang just out of the Navy with a French war-bride in tow. He remained (minus spouse) for the next 16 features. Gabe was a convenient \"utility\" character, frequently changing jobs (private investigator, policeman, songwriter, reporter, Nazi spy) to suit the story at hand—and the limited casting budget. Dell often acted as a bridge between the real world and those of the Boys who he would summon to assist him. He reprised one of his East Side Kids roles in \"Hard Boiled Mahoney\" (1947), playing Gabe as a myopic nerd with thick glasses, ascot and cap. His final appearance was in \"Blues Busters\" in 1950, generally regarded as one of the funniest in the series.\n\nThe early films such as \"In Fast Company\" (1946) flirted with the same humor-laced crime drama of the previous series, but they gradually shifted to all-out comedy, growing more slapstick and fantasy-oriented over the next decade. After 1950, the series began to resemble the farcical Abbott and Costello comedies—a far cry from the grim social realism of their 1930s films. The grittiness of the old days was sanitized with the gang's dingy basement club-house replaced by an ice cream parlor. The \"boys\" also adopted a more adult look, exchanging their sloppy, juvenile wardrobe for suits.\n\nThe team spirit of the ensemble cast faded as Huntz Hall was elevated to co-star status to showcase his comedic skills. The stories now focused entirely on Slip (the self-proclaimed leader of the bunch) and his zany sidekick, Sach, with the diminished three or four \"boys\" receding into the background with little to do. Time and again the plot revolved around Sach accidentally acquiring some strange power or ability (he becomes a psychic, champion wrestler, crooner, etc.) that Slip is quick to exploit. In most of the films, the gang pursues a scheme for quick riches or gets mixed up with neighborhood thugs. Story elements from their earlier films (haunted houses, mad scientists, nefarious spies) were also frequently incorporated into the new series.\n\nLike a streetwise Abbott and Costello, Gorcey and Hall became a cohesive comedy duo, extending their verbal and physical humor into broader slapstick comedy that served to increase the popularity of the series. In 1953, Edward Bernds, a new producer and director who had previously worked with The Three Stooges, transformed the series into lucrative kiddie-matinée fodder, with Gorcey and Hall re-enacting gags borrowed from the Stooges. (Huntz Hall cited Shemp Howard, who had appeared in three Little Tough Guys films, as a major influence during this latter phase in the series.)\n\nLeo's character \"Slip\" was famed for his malaprops (always delivered in a Brooklyn accent), such as \"a clever seduction\" for \"a clever deduction,\" \"I depreciate it!\" (\"I appreciate it!\"), and \"I regurgitate\" (\"I reiterate\").\n\nIn the 1940s, Abbott and Costello appeared in a quartet of \"service comedies\", one for each branch of the military. The Bowery Boys duplicated this feat a decade later with \"Bowery Battalion,\" \"Let's Go Navy!,\" \"Here Come the Marines,\" and \"Clipped Wings.\" Abbott and Costello spoofed westerns: \"Ride 'Em Cowboy\" (1942), the upper-classes: \"In Society\" (1944), and hillbillies: \"Comin' Round the Mountain\" (1951). The Bowery Boys repeated this formula in \"Bowery Buckaroos\" (1947), \"High Society\" (1955), and \"Feudin' Fools\" (1952), respectively.\n\nAbbott and Costello went on safari: \"Africa Screams\" (1949), to the Middle East: \"Lost in a Harem\" (1944), and even tangled with pirates in \"Abbott and Costello Meet Captain Kidd\" (1952). Once again, the Bowery Boys followed suit with \"Jungle Gents\" (1954), \"Bowery to Bagdad\" (1955), and \"Hold That Hypnotist\" (1957). Abbott and Costello become private detectives in \"Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man\" (1951); the Bowery Boys open up a detective agency in 1953's \"Private Eyes\".\n\nAfter Abbott and Costello's haunted-house comedy \"Hold That Ghost\" (1941) became a smash hit, the East Side Kids released the similar \"Spooks Run Wild\" with Bela Lugosi later that year. Lugosi went on to help make \"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein,\" one of A&C's most popular and critically acclaimed comedies. The basic premise, centered around Dracula's scheme to transplant Costello's brain into the Frankenstein monster (played by Glenn Strange), was duplicated a few months later by The Bowery Boys in \"Master Minds\" (1949). Glenn Strange once again plays a hulking monster who switches minds with Sach (Huntz Hall). With a title suggesting a send-up of the Abbott and Costello \"Meet\" films, \"The Bowery Boys Meet the Monsters\" (1954) was the highest grossing entry in the series.\n\nAfter filming \"Dig That Uranium\" in 1955, Bernard Gorcey was killed in an automobile accident, devastating his son Leo, who began to drink heavily, and it visibly affected his performance in the following film, \"Crashing Las Vegas\", which was his last. (During filming, he became violently unhinged, trashing the set and destroying every prop in sight.) At a subsequent meeting with Allied Artists, Gorcey demanded an increase on the 40% interest he held in the series. This was denied, and after a heated exchange, he quit the series and stormed off the studio lot.\n\nThe studio owed exhibitors three more films for the 1956 season, so Gorcey was replaced by Stanley Clements, a former tough-teen actor who had been in a few East Side Kids movies. Clements, as \"Duke Coveleskie,\" adapted to the series easily and completed the three films, which now starred \"Huntz Hall and The Bowery Boys.\" The new Hall-Clements partnership was successful enough to be renewed for the 1957 season. Four more films were made, with Eddie LeRoy joining the cast as bespectacled \"Blinky.\" With Bernard Gorcey gone, Louie's Sweet Shop was replaced by Clancy's Cafe with a similarly put-upon proprietor, \"Mike\" (Percy Helton, later played by Dick Elliott).\n\nIn all, there were 48 Bowery Boys films, making it the longest feature-film series of American origin in motion picture history (only the Mexican \"Santo\" film series ran longer), with the final film, \"In the Money,\" being released in 1958. Only Huntz Hall and David Gorcey had remained with the series since 1946.\n\nThe Bowery Boys and East Side Kids picked up a new generation of mostly younger fans when the films were repackaged and syndicated for television in the 1960s and 1970s. They became a staple for independent stations across the U.S., often used to fill up the early-afternoon time-slots on weekends.\n\n\n\nAll 48 Bowery Boys films were released on DVD by Warner Brothers via their \"made-to-order\" Archive Collection label in four volumes, each consisting of 12 films on 4 recordable media discs, beginning November 20, 2012. Initial distribution was advertised by Warner as being traditionally replicated on \"pressed disc\" media in anticipation of high demand for these first Bowery Boy releases to be \"remastered from the best available elements.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40399060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40399060", "title": "This Is Sanlitun", "text": "This Is Sanlitun\n\nThis Is Sanlitun is a 2013 comedy film directed by Róbert Ingi Douglas and starring Carlos Ottery. It is a co-production between China, Iceland and Ireland. It was screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 2013 Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nThe film is a mockumentary about Gary, a British man, arriving in Beijing to set up a business and reconnect with his ex-wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "747712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=747712", "title": "Thomas Jefferson Rusk", "text": "Thomas Jefferson Rusk\n\nThomas Jefferson Rusk (December 5, 1803July 29, 1857) was an early political and military leader of the Republic of Texas, serving as its first Secretary of War as well as a general at the Battle of San Jacinto. He was later a US politician and served as a Senator from Texas from 1846 until his suicide. He served as the President pro tempore of the United States Senate in 1857.\n\nRusk was born in Pendleton, South Carolina, to John Rusk, a stonemason, and Mary Sterritt Rusk. After being admitted to the bar in 1825, Rusk began his law practice in Clarkesville, Georgia. In 1827, he married Mary F. (Polly) Cleveland, the daughter of General John Cleveland. Rusk became a business partner of his father-in-law after the marriage. He lived in the gold region of Georgia and made sizable mining investments. In 1834, however, the managers of the company in which he had invested embezzled all the funds and fled to Mexican Texas. Rusk pursued them to Nacogdoches, but never recovered the money.\n\nRusk decided to stay in Texas and became a citizen of Mexico in 1835, applied for a headright in David G. Burnet's colony, and sent for his family. After hearing Nacogdoches citizens denounce the despotism of Mexico, Rusk became involved in the independence movement. He organized volunteers from Nacogdoches and hastened to Gonzales, where his men joined Stephen F. Austin's army in preventing the Mexicans from seizing their cannon. They proceeded to San Antonio, but Rusk left the army before the Siege of Bexar.\n\nThe provisional government named him inspector general of the army in the Nacogdoches District. As a delegate from Nacogdoches to the Convention of 1836, Rusk not only signed the Texas Declaration of Independence but also chaired the committee to revise the constitution of the Republic of Texas. The \"ad interim\" government, installed on March 17, 1836, appointed Rusk as Secretary of War. When informed that the Alamo had fallen and the Mexican army was moving eastward, Rusk helped President David Burnet to move the government to Harrisburg.\n\nAfter the Mexicans killed all James W. Fannin's Texan army at Goliad, Burnet sent Rusk with orders for General Sam Houston to make a stand against the enemy. Rusk participated with bravery in the defeat of Santa Anna on April 21, 1836, in the Battle of San Jacinto. From May to October 1836, he served as commander-in-chief of the Army of the Republic of Texas, with the rank of brigadier general. He followed the Mexican troops westward as they retired from Texas to be certain of their retreat beyond the Rio Grande. Then he conducted a military funeral for the troops killed at Goliad.\n\nIn the first regularly elected administration, President Houston appointed Rusk secretary of war, but after a few weeks, Rusk resigned to take care of pressing domestic problems. At the insistence of friends, however, he represented Nacogdoches in the Second Congress of the Republic (1837–1838). Rusk was a Mason. He joined Milam Lodge No. 40 (Later Milam Lodge #2) in Nacogdoches in 1837 and was a founding member of the Grand Lodge of Texas, organized in Houston on December 20, 1837.\n\nAs chairman of the House Military Committee in 1837, he sponsored a militia bill that passed over Houston's veto, and Congress elected Rusk major general of the militia. In the summer of 1838, he commanded the Nacogdoches militia, which suppressed the Córdova Rebellion. In October, when Mexican agents were discovered among the Kickapoo Indians, Rusk defeated those Indians and their Indian allies. He captured marauding Caddo Indians in November 1838 and risked an international incident when he invaded United States territory to return them to the Indian agent in Shreveport, Louisiana.\n\nOn December 12, 1838, the Texas Congress elected Rusk Chief Justice of the Republic's Supreme Court. He served until June 30, 1840, when he resigned to resume his law practice. Later he headed the bar of the Republic of Texas. He and J. Pinckney Henderson, later the first governor of the state of Texas, formed a law partnership in 1841.\n\nEarly in 1843, Rusk was called upon once again to serve as a military commander. Concern over the lack of protection on the frontier caused Congress, in a joint ballot on January 16, 1843, to elect Rusk major general of the militia of the Republic of Texas. But he resigned in June when Houston obstructed his plans for aggressive warfare against Mexico. Rusk then turned his energies to establishing Nacogdoches University (operated 1845–1895). He served as vice president of the university when the charter was granted in 1845 and president in 1846.\n\nRusk supported Sam Houston and the growing movement to annex Texas to the United States. He was president of the Republic's Convention of 1845, which accepted the annexation terms. The first Texas state legislature elected him and Houston to the United States Senate in February 1846. Rusk received the larger number of votes and the longer term of office.\n\nRusk and Houston forgot past differences as they worked to settle the southwest boundary question in favor of Texas' claim to the Rio Grande. Rusk supported the position of US President James K. Polk on the necessity of the Mexican War and the acquisition of California. In the debate over the Compromise of 1850, Rusk refused to endorse secession, proposed by some in the caucus of Southern congressmen. He vigorously defended Texas' claims to the land used to create the New Mexico Territory in 1850, arguing for financial compensation for Texas.\n\nAs an early advocate of a transcontinental railroad through Texas, Senator Rusk made speeches in the Senate and throughout Texas in support of a southern route. The Gadsden Purchase received his support. Rusk was in favor of the Kansas–Nebraska Act. President James Buchanan offered him the position of United States Postmaster General in 1857, but he turned it down. (Buchanan gave the post to Aaron V. Brown)\n\nWhile Rusk attended to duties in Washington, D.C., his wife died of tuberculosis on April 23, 1856. Five of their seven children were still living at the time. During a special session in March 1857, he was elected president pro tempore of the United States Senate.\n\nMissing his wife and ill from a tumor at the base of his neck, Rusk committed suicide by a self-inflicted gunshot wound on July 29, 1857. He was 53 years old.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58979151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58979151", "title": "Valeria Vegh Weis", "text": "Valeria Vegh Weis\n\nValeria Vegh Weis is an Argentinean-German critical criminologist, criminal attorney, and university professor with expertise in criminal law, mental health law, and transitional justice.\n\nVegh Weis was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina. She attended Escuela n° 9 Manuela Pedraza School and then high school at Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires.\n\nVegh Weis is a lawyer from Buenos Aires University Law School. She obtained her summa cum laude law degree from Buenos Aires University Law School. Later on, she pursued post-graduate studies in Criminal Law at Buenos Aires University School of Law and a Master in International Legal Studies at New York University. She also pursued a PhD in Law at the same university and defended her PhD thesis on a Marxist perspective of criminal selectivity.. \n\nShe is currently working as a Professor of Criminology at Buenos Aires University and Quilmes National University while a research consultant for Professor Thane Rosenbaum at New York University. She has also been serving on the Argentinean Judiciary for more than ten years (2005 to today) and has been recently appointed as Associate Personnel at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.\n\nShe has published extensively in Spanish and English on criminal law, criminology, transitional justice and mental health law.\n\nShe received the CONICET, Fulbright and Hauser Global Scholarships, the International Law and Human Rights and the Transitional Justice Fellowship, among many others awards. She has been a Lecturer for the World Health Organization, a Visiting Professor at Strathmore University, a Post-Doctoral Visiting Researcher at Freie Universitat Berlin and a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Max Planck Institute in Legal History.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "939872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=939872", "title": "William Hawley", "text": "William Hawley\n\nLieutenant-Colonel William Hawley (1851–1941) was a British archaeologist who undertook pioneering excavations at Stonehenge.\n\nHawley joined the Royal Engineers and was a captain of the Portsmouth division of the Royal Engineers Militia when, in late March 1902, he was seconded for service in South Africa for the later stages of the Second Boer War.\n\nAlong with William Henry St John Hope and Duncan Hector Montgomerie, Hawley participated in the first major excavations of the Old Sarum hillfort between 1909 and 1915. These digs were organized by the Society of Antiquaries of London.\n\nWork at the Stonehenge prehistoric monument was carried out between 1919 and 1926, largely by Hawley alone, at times assisted by Robert Newall, a draughtsman from the Office of Works. The weather and the confusing stratigraphy of this site made work difficult, but Hawley was able to make numerous breakthroughs regarding the history of activity on the site.\n\nThe first task was the supervised righting of some of the fallen stones, late in 1919. Hawley dug out the foundations before the stones were replaced. Hawley was employed by the Office of Works, the antecedent of the Ministry of Works who had been passed responsibility for Stonehenge when it had been donated to the nation in 1918. They were primarily concerned with the danger of falling stones, but funds were made available for Hawley to continue his investigations long after the righting work was finished.\n\nHawley identified the Aubrey Holes for the first time, as well as the Y and Z Holes and a variety of other postholes and stone holes within the centre of the monument. He found many of the cremated and uncremated human remains which first indicated a funerary role for Stonehenge. Excavations of the Avenue, the ditch (Heelstone Ditch) around the Heelstone, and the trench (Arc Trench) leading up to the Heelstone were also undertaken.\n\nHawley proved, from a thin stratum of stone chip debris he called the Stonehenge Layer, that the earthwork features, the Aubrey Holes and some of the other postholes and burials constituted earlier phases of activity that predated the erection of the megaliths. He also found an antler pick embedded in a lump of chalk, indicating the construction method on site. Eventually he settled on three phases: the earthwork enclosure, a large stone circle now vanished that supposedly stood in the Aubrey Holes, and finally a larger megaliths phase involving the extant stones as Stonehenge 3. Hawley's model of a multiphase site did not agree with the contemporary interpretation and was ignored until Richard Atkinson revived the idea in the 1950s. Although later considerably refined, his multi-phase interpretation is now fully accepted.\n\nCertain of Hawley's other ideas, such as Stonehenge being a fortified settlement, were further off the mark and he died before his work was recognised.\n\nArtefacts excavated by Hawley at Stonehenge are displayed in the Wessex Gallery of Archaeology at the Salisbury Museum. Selected samples were also sent to the Ashmolean (Oxford), the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology (Cambridge), the National Museum of Wales (Cardiff), and the British Museum (London).\n\n"}
