{"id": "4223800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4223800", "title": "10,000 BC (film)", "text": "10,000 BC (film)\n\n10,000 BC is a 2008 American epic adventure film from Warner Bros. set in the prehistoric era, about the journeys of a prehistoric tribe of mammoth hunters. It was directed by Roland Emmerich and stars Steven Strait and Camilla Belle. The world premiere was held on February 10, 2008 at Sony Center on Potsdamer Platz in Berlin.\n\nEmmerich's film was a box office hit, but consistently regarded by professional critics as his worst film, as well as one of the worst films of the year.\n\nAt about 10,000 BC, a tribe of hunter-gatherers called the Yagahl live in a remote mountain range in the Urals and survive by hunting woolly mammoths. The camp is led by a hunter who has proven his bravery by killing a mammoth single-handedly, and taking the White Spear. The people also strongly venerate an elderly Neanderthal woman, the last of her kind, called Old Mother, who has shamanistic powers. As time goes by, the mammoths that supply the people start to dwindle, and the chief of the tribe finds a young girl with blue eyes named Evolet who survived a massacre of her village, perpetrated by what Old Mother calls \"four-legged demons\" who will come when \"the Yagahl go on their last hunt\". The chief of the village, not believing in Old Mother's prophecy and desperate to feed his people, leaves and gives the White Spear to his friend Tic'Tic, who also watches over D'Leh, the chief's son. As Tic'Tic alone is entrusted to know of the quest, all the others in the tribe including D'Leh's rival, Ka'Ren, believe that D'Leh's father was a coward and fled. Over time, D'Leh and Evolet fall in love and become close.\n\nWhen the mammoths finally come, D'Leh and the other men of the tribe hunt them under Tic'Tic's leadership, and D'Leh manages to kill one by causing the beast into impaling itself on his spear, inadvertently winning the White Spear. He also wins Evolet in marriage. However, consumed by the guilt that he did not earn the White Spear fairly, after speaking with Tic'Tic, he gives the White Spear up and by effect, forfeits his marriage to Evolet. The next day, horse-raiders attack the camp, enslaving Evolet and several others and killing many of the tribe. D'Leh, Tic'Tic, Ka'Ren and the young boy Baku set out to rescue Evolet and their fellow Yagahl, but she is recaptured with Ka'Ren and Baku during an attack on the slavers by Terror Birds. Tic'Tic is wounded by the predators during the battle. D'Leh and the injured Tic'Tic continue on. When D'Leh is out hunting, he falls into a pit-trap. When he wakes from the fall, he rescues a \"Smilodon\" trapped with him in the pit and then escapes himself. After Tic'Tic recovers, they make their way to a village nearby and learn of a prophecy from the Naku, a tribe they meet: whoever talks to a Smilodon that they call the \"Spear-Tooth\" will help free their people. D'Leh realizes the prophecy is about him when the sabertooth refuses to kill him when they next meet. They also learn that D'Leh's father, the chief of the Yagahl, was a guest of the Naku and learned from them until the slavers took him captive and Tic'Tic finally reveals to D'Leh why his father left.\n\nSeveral tribes agree to form a coalition to pursue the raiders that stole their families with D'Leh as their leader. They soon find the ships holding Evolet and their companions. However, with no means to follow the ships, they journey through a vast desert, eventually discovering an advanced civilization similar to ancient Egypt, ruled by an enigmatic figure known as \"The Almighty\". In this civilization Evolet, Baku and the other kidnapped Yagahl are forced to work as slaves. There, the warlord who kidnapped Evolet tries to coerce her into loving him, only to be arrested by The Almighty when they find he has taken her without permission. During a night scouting raid, D'Leh learns of the Almighty and the fate of his father, who perished as a slave. However, the guards see them and attempt to warn the Almighty. Tic'Tic dies from injuries sustained in the fight that follows with the guards, though not before killing them before they can raise the alarm. The Almighty's priests also meanwhile come to believe that Evolet is destined to kill The Almighty, based on the whip scars on her hands matching the stars they call the \"Mark of the Hunter\" and an ancient prophecy foreseeing their civilization's downfall. The Almighty realizes that Evolet is not the focus of the prophecy, but the hunter's (D'Leh's) herald. D'Leh then starts a rebellion among the slaves, killing many of the Almighty's forces, though Ka'Ren is killed.\n\nThe Almighty offers Evolet and the other hunters to D'Leh in exchange for abandoning his rebellion. D'Leh feigns acceptance of the deal but throws a spear at The Almighty and kills him. During the ensuing battle, Evolet dies at the hands of the warlord before he in turn is killed by D'Leh, but is restored to life by the Old Mother sacrificing her own life with her powers. With the Almighty and his people dead and his civilization destroyed, the Yagahl bid farewell to the other tribes and return home with seeds given to them by the Naku people to begin farming and start a new life.\n\nThe mammoths in the movie were based on elephants and fossils of mammoths, while the saber-toothed cat was based on tigers and ligers (a lion/tiger hybrid).\n\nThe sounds made by the saber-toothed cat in the movie are based on the vocalization of tigers and lions.\n\nEmmerich opened casting sessions in late October 2005. In February 2006, Camilla Belle and Steven Strait were announced to star in the film, with Strait as the mammoth hunter and Belle as his love. Emmerich decided that casting well known actors would distract from the realistic feel of the prehistoric setting. \"If like, Jake Gyllenhaal turned up in a movie like this, everybody would be, 'What's that?'\", he explained. The casting of unknown actors also helped keep the film's budget down.\n\nAt the 2008 Wondercon, Emmerich mentioned the fiction of Robert E. Howard as a primary influence for the film's setting, as well as his love for the film \"Quest for Fire\" and the book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\".\n\nDirector Roland Emmerich and composer Harald Kloser originally penned a script for \"10,000 BC\". When the project received the greenlight from Columbia Pictures, screenwriter John Orloff began work on a new draft of the original script. Columbia Pictures, under Sony Pictures Entertainment, dropped the project due to a busy release calendar, and Warner Bros. picked up the project in Sony's vacancy. The script went through a second revision with Matthew Sand and a final revision with Robert Rodat.\n\nProduction began in early 2006 in South Africa and Namibia. Location filming also took place in southern New Zealand and Thailand. Before shooting began, the production had spent eighteen months on research and development for the computer-generated imagery. Two companies recreated prehistoric animals. To cut time (it was taking sixteen hours to render a single frame) 50% of the CGI models' fur was removed, as \"it turned out half the fur looked the same\" to the director.\n\nEmmerich rejected making the film in an ancient language (similar to \"The Passion of the Christ\" or \"Apocalypto\"), deciding that it would not be as emotionally engaging.\n\nDialect coach Brendan Gunn was hired by Emmerich and Kloser to create \"a half dozen\" languages for the film. Gunn has stated that he collaborated informally with film lead Steven Strait to improvise what the languages would sound like.\n\nIn an alternative ending, the scene shifts forward many years into the future, showing Baku's retelling of the story by the camp fire. It ends with a child asking what had happened to the \"Mountains of the Gods\", and Baku responds, \"They were taken back by the sands. Lost to time, lost to man\".\n\nThe film received largely negative reviews from critics, stating that the movie is mainly visual and lacks a firm screenplay. Critics noted that the film is archaeologically inaccurate and contains many factual errors and anachronisms. , the review aggregator at Rotten Tomatoes has reported that 8% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 146 reviews with the consensus: \"With attention strictly paid to style instead of substance, or historical accuracy, \"10,000 BC\" is a visually impressive but narratively flimsy epic.\" Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 34 out of 100, based on 29 reviews.\n\nComposer Thomas Wander won a BMI Film Music Award for his work on the film.\n\nThe film was a moderate success at the box office. In its opening weekend, the film grossed $35.8 million in 3,410 theaters in the United States and Canada, ranking No. 1 at the box office, and grossing over $22 million more than the film in second place, \"College Road Trip\". , it has grossed approximately $268.6 million worldwide—$94.6 million in the United States and Canada and $174 million in other territories—including $17.2 million in Mexico, $13.1 million in Spain, $11.3 million in the United Kingdom, and $10.8 million in China. This also makes it the first film of 2008 to surpass the $200 million mark.\n\nThe DVD of the film was released on June 24, 2008 in single-disc editions of DVD and Blu-ray Disc in the United States. Best Buy released a 2-disc limited edition along with the DVD and Blu-ray Disc releases. It was released on July 21, 2008 in the United Kingdom. The film grossed $31,341,721 in DVD sales, bringing its total film gross to $300,414,491.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2273357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2273357", "title": "AKOM", "text": "AKOM\n\nAKOM Production, Ltd. (Animation KOrea Movie) is a South Korean animation studio in Songpa-gu, Seoul that has provided much work since its conception in 1985 by Nelson Shin. Its biggest claim to fame is the overseas animation of more than 200 episodes of \"The Simpsons\", a total which continues to increase. In fact, they animated the first two seasons of the series exclusively. The studio also produced a portion of the overseas animation for \"The Simpsons Movie\".\n\nOther well-known series that AKOM has been involved in include \"X-Men\", \"The Tick\", \"Tiny Toon Adventures\", \"Animaniacs\", \"\" (unfortinatley, AKOM was eventually fired due to its inconsistent animation in many episodes such as \"Cat Scratch Fever\" and \"Moon of the Wolf\".), \"The Transformers\", and five of \"The Land Before Time\" films.\n\n"}
{"id": "1987995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987995", "title": "Baseball park", "text": "Baseball park\n\nA baseball park, also known as a ballpark or diamond, is a venue where baseball is played. A baseball park consists of the playing field and the surrounding spectator seating. While the diamond and the areas denoted by white painted lines adhere to strict rules, guidelines for the rest of the field are flexible.\n\nThe term \"ballpark\" sometimes refers either to the entire structure, or sometimes to just the playing field. A home run where the player makes it around the bases, and back to home plate, without the ball leaving the playing field is typically called an \"inside-the-park\" home run. Sometimes a home run ball passing over an outfield fence (when hit by a batter) is said to have been hit \"out of the ballpark\", but that phrase more often refers to a home run ball that cleared the stands, landing outside the building. The playing field is most often called the \"ballfield\", though the term is often used interchangeably with \"ballpark\" when referring to a small local or youth league facility.\n\nA baseball field can be referred to as a diamond. The infield is a rigidly structured diamond of dirt containing the three bases, home plate, and the pitchers mound. The space between the bases and home is normally a grass surface, save for the dirt mound in the center. Some ballparks, like Toronto's Rogers Centre, have grass or artificial turf between the bases, and dirt only around the bases and pitcher's mound. Others, such as Koshien Stadium in Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan, have an entirely dirt infield.\n\nTwo white lines run out from the home plate area, aligned with first and third bases. These are the \"foul lines\" or \"base lines\", usually differentiated by referring to them as the first base line, or the third base line. If a ball hit by the batter lands outside of the space between these two lines, or rolls out of this space before reaching first or third base, the ball is \"foul\" (meaning it is dead and the play is over). If it lands between or on the lines, it is \"fair\". At the end of the lines are two foul poles, which help the umpires judge whether a ball is fair or foul. These \"foul poles\" are actually in fair territory, so a ball that hits them on the fly is a home run (if hit on the bounce, it is instead an automatic double).\n\nOn either side of home plate are the two batter's boxes (left-handed and right-handed.) This is where the batter stands when at bat. Behind home is the catcher's box, where the catcher and the home plate umpire stand.\n\nNext to first and third base are two coaches' boxes, where the first and third base coaches guide the baserunners, generally with gestures or shouts. As the baserunner faces away from the outfield when running from second base to third, they cannot see where the ball is, and must look to the third base coach on whether to run, stop, or slide.\n\nFarther from the infield on either side are the dugouts, where the teams and coaches sit when they're not on the field. They are named such because, at the professional levels, this seating is below the level of the playing field so as to not block the view from prime spectator seating locations. In amateur parks, the dugouts may be above-ground wooden or CMU structures with seating inside, or simply benches behind a chain link fence.\n\nBeyond the infield and between the foul lines is a large grass outfield, generally twice the depth of the infield. The playing field is bordered by fences of varying height. The infield fences are in foul territory, and a ball hit over them isn't a home run; consequently, they are often lower than the outfield fences to provide a better view for spectators. Sometimes, the outfield fence is made higher in certain areas to compensate for a close proximity to the batter.\n\nIn professional parks, the field is surrounded by an area roughly wide made of dirt or rubberized track surface called a \"warning track\". Originally used in Yankee Stadium in 1923 as an actual footrace track, it is now present in all major league ballparks. This change in terrain warns a fielder, who is watching a ball in the air, that the wall is near, avoiding possible injury.\n\nBeyond the outfield fence in professional parks is an area called the batter's eye. To ensure the batter can see the white ball, the batter's eye contains no seating, and is a darker color. This can be anything from a dark wall to a grassy slope.\n\nToday, in Major League Baseball, a multi-tiered seating area, a grandstand, surrounds the infield. How far this seating extends down the baselines or around the foul poles varies from park to park. In minor league parks, the grandstands are notably smaller, proportional to expected sizes of crowds compared with the major leagues.\n\nThe seating beyond the outfield fence generally differs from the grandstand, though some multi-purpose or jewel box parks have the grandstand surround the entire field. This area could contain inexpensive bleacher seats, smaller grandstands, or simply inclined seating. In local ballparks, there are often simply a set or two of aluminum bleachers on the first-base and third-base sides.\n\nDistinctive from \"goal games\" such as football and basketball, which have fixed-size playing areas, the infield is the only rigidly laid-out part of the field. Like its English relative, cricket, there is significant flexibility in the shape and size of the rest of the playing area.\n\nTo prevent \"cheap\" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum distance from home plate to the outfield fences. Generally, the higher the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent an excess of home runs. In the major leagues, a rule was passed in 1958 that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum distance of from home plate to the fences in left and right field, and to center. (Rule 1.04, Note(a)). This rule was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was . down the left field line.\n\nHowever, with the opening of Baltimore's Camden Yards (1992), the \"minimum distance\" rule began to be ignored. One factor may be that the quaint, \"retro\" look of Camden Yards, with its irregular measurements, proved to be very popular, along with a traditionalist backlash against the symmetrical, multi-purpose, \"cookie-cutter\" stadiums. Since the opening of Camden Yards, many other \"retro\" stadiums have been built, each with asymmetrical fences. These distances vary from park to park, and can even change drastically in the same park. One of the most famous examples is the original Yankee Stadium, whose odd-shaped plot of land caused right field to be over shorter than left, although this difference lessened over time. The rectangular Polo Grounds had extremely short distance down the lines, . to right and . to left. In contrast, the deepest part of center field was nearly . from home plate.\n\nOlder ballparks, such as Fenway Park, were grandfathered in and allowed to keep their original dimensions. Also, new parks have sometimes received special dispensation to deviate from these rules. For instance, the second Yankee Stadium, built 2009, used the same dimensions as the original Yankee Stadium.\n\nThe heights of the fences can also vary greatly, the most famous example being the -high Green Monster in Fenway Park's left field. Such tall fences are often used to stop easy home runs in a section of the ballpark where the distances from home are shorter, or where there is little space between the field and the street beyond. Some in-play scoreboards and high fences reached 50 to , whereas a few outfields were even lined with hedges rather than normal fences or walls. The Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, when set up for baseball, had a right field \"fence\" that was actually a relatively thin blue plastic sheet covering folded up football seats. It was often called the \"Baggie\" or \"Hefty bag\".\n\nSome ballparks have irregularly shaped fences. Ballparks may have round swooping fences or rigidly angled fences, or possibly a significant change in direction or irregular angle. For example, the center field stands and the left field stands at Fenway Park meet at an uneven angle, creating an indentation (called \"the triangle\") that angles sharply back into the stands. In Citi Field and AT&T Park, part of the right field fence juts unevenly into the outfield as if the builders were trying to create an unpredictable ricochet effect for balls hit against it. Some \"retro\" parks, such as Globe Life Park in Arlington, throw in a sudden and small inward turn (often referred to as a jog) just to give a little quirkiness to the design. Milwaukee's Miller Park was designed, with the help of former player Robin Yount, to promote extra base hits.\n\nOriginally (mostly in the old jewel box parks) these variations resulted from the shape of the property where the park was constructed. If there was a street beyond left field, the distance to the left field fence would be shorter, and if the distance was too short, the fence would be higher. For example, in the old Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C., part of center field had to be built around a cluster of apartment houses and the result was a rather large angular indentation in the left-center field fence. Now, these variations are mostly influenced by the specifications and whims of the designers. New \"retro\" parks, which try to recapture the feel of the jewel box parks, are often designed to have these quirks.\n\nBaseball was originally played in open fields or public parks. The genesis of modern baseball is conventionally connected with Elysian Fields in Hoboken, New Jersey, a large public park where the businessmen of New York City gathered from time to time to play organized baseball games and cricket matches, starting around the mid-1840s. The name \"Field\" or \"Park\" was typically attached to the names of the early ballparks.\n\nWith the beginnings of professional baseball, the ballfield became part of a complex including fixed spectator seating areas, and an enclosure to restrict access to paying customers, as with a fairgrounds. The name \"Grounds\" began to be attached to ballparks, starting with the Union Grounds in 1862. The suffixes \"Field\" and \"Park\" were still used, but many professional ballparks were \"Grounds\". The last surviving major league \"Grounds\" was the Polo Grounds in New York City, which was razed in 1964.\n\nThe term \"stadium\" had been used since ancient times, typically for a running track and its seating area. As college football gained in popularity, the smaller college playing fields and/or running tracks (which also frequently had the suffix \"Field\") gave way to large stadiums, many of them built during the sport's \"boom\" of the 1920s. Major league baseball enjoyed a similar boom. One of the first major league ballparks to be called a \"stadium\" was actually the Polo Grounds, which was temporarily renamed Brush Stadium from its reconstruction in 1911 until the death of owner John T. Brush in the 1920s. By then, the most famous baseball \"stadium\" of them all had been constructed: Yankee Stadium. From that point until the retro building boom of the 1990s, the suffix \"Stadium\" was used for almost every new major league ballpark, and was sometimes applied to the old ones, such as Shibe Park, which was renamed Connie Mack Stadium in 1954.\n\nThe suffix \"Dome\" was also used for the indoor stadiums constructed from the 1960s onward. The official names of those arenas also often included the word \"Stadium\", such as the Houston Astrodome, whose formal name was \"Harris County Domed Stadium\" in 1965; the Kingdome, whose formal name was \"King County Domed Stadium\", and the Metrodome, for which the Minneapolis highway signs directed the driver to \"Metrodome Stadium\". The retro era of the 1990s and early 2000s saw a return to the original arboreal terms, even to domed structures such as Safeco Field and Miller Park.\n\nThere is little consistency in the choice between \"Field\" and \"Park\". For example, Houston's Minute Maid Park was originally named \"Enron Field\".\n\nOrganized baseball has been a popular spectator sport from its beginning. Seating area design is affected by many variables, including required capacity, audience access, and road traffic. Early ballparks like Elysian Fields were far from the city center. Each game was an event, and fans traveled by public transit to watch the game.\n\nWith the growth of professional leagues, and consequent growth in the quantity of games, each game became less of an event, and fan convenience became more important. Many professional ballparks were built either near the city center, or in working-class neighborhoods, based on expected economic level of the average fan. Consequently, the classic ballparks typically had little space for automobiles, as it was expected that most fans would take mass transit to the games, a situation that still prevails at Boston's Fenway Park and Chicago's Wrigley Field, for example. Some early ballparks, such as Brooklyn's Eastern Park, were abandoned because the trolley lines did not go out far enough and the team was not performing well enough for people to tolerate the inconvenience.\n\nAs fans became more affluent, and especially as they moved to the suburbs and bought cars, the lack of parking became an important issue. Some ballparks remedied this problem through the construction of parking garages in the vicinity, or building new ballparks with ample parking. Others built ballparks in the suburbs, typically with large parking areas. The ballpark/stadium thus became an \"island\" in an \"ocean\" of parking space.\n\nThe modern \"retro\" trend seeks to cover all the bases: an urban location, with plenty of parking \"and\" public transportation available.\n\nThe first professional baseball venues were large wooden ballparks with seats mounted on wood platforms. Although known for being constructed out of wood, they featured iron columns for better support. Some included one tier of inclined seating, topped with either a flat roof or, in some instances, a small upper tier. The outfield was bordered by tall walls or fences covered in advertisements, much like today's minor league parks. These advertisements were sometimes fronted with bleacher seats, or \"bleaching boards\". Wood, while prone to decomposition, was a relatively inexpensive material, as there was no official governing body for professional baseball at the time. \nHowever, the use of wood as the primary material presented a major problem, especially as baseball continued to thrive. Over time, the wooden stands aged and dried. Many parks caught fire, and some were leveled completely. This problem, along with the popularization of baseball and expectations for long-term use of the parks were major factors that drove the transition to the new standard materials for ballparks: steel and concrete. Some famous wooden parks, such as the Polo Grounds III in New York and National League Park in Philadelphia, burned and were rebuilt with fire-resistant materials (Polo Grounds IV and Baker Bowl). Others were simply abandoned in favor of new structures built elsewhere. These new fire-resistant parks often lasted for many decades, and (retrospectively) came to be known as \"jewel boxes\". Since there are no more professional ballparks in existence left with this architectural trend, it's basically a dead design.\n\nThe ballparks built or rebuilt of concrete and steel (albeit with wooden seats) after the days of the wooden ballpark are now known as the jewel box ballparks or classic parks. These parks are said by many to embody the golden age of baseball. They are known for an intimate feel, and major use of exposed steel, brick, and stone. The first of these was Shibe Park, which opened in 1909 in Philadelphia. Another Philadelphia ballpark, the Baker Bowl, which opened in 1895, used steel and brick instead of wood as the primary construction materials, and is considered the forerunner of the jewel box parks.\n\nTwo-tiered grandstands became much more prevalent in this era. These decks were typically held up by steel pillars that obstructed the view from some seats in the lower level. However, because of these supports, the upper decks could come very close to the field, giving the ballpark a more intimate feel. Two tiers was the standard for decades, until the New York Yankees built Yankee Stadium. To accommodate the large crowds Babe Ruth drew, Yankee Stadium was the largest ballpark in baseball, and was built with three tiers. This became the new standard until some recently built parks reverted to two.\n\nMost Jewel Box Parks were built to fit the constraints of actual city blocks, resulting in asymmetrical outfield dimensions. The exceptions were Shibe Park and Comiskey Park, which were built on rectangular city blocks that were large enough to accommodate left/right field symmetry.\n\nOther sports, such as soccer and football, were often played at these sites (the Polo Grounds and Yankee Stadium were, for example, designed to accommodate football). In contrast to the later multi-purpose parks, the seats were generally angled in a configuration suitable for baseball. The \"retro\" ballparks built in the 1990s and beyond are an attempt to capture the feel of the jewel box parks. The only jewel box parks still used by Major League Baseball are Fenway Park and Wrigley Field.\n\nFrom the 1960s until the arrival of retro parks in 1992, baseball built many multi-purpose ballparks. Also derisively known as \"concrete donuts\", \"cookie-cutters\", or \"giant ashtrays\", they were usually tall and circular or square structures made entirely of, usually bare, reinforced concrete. The parks were built to hold baseball as well as football, soccer, and other sports. One of the earliest baseball stadiums that incorporated this type of design was Cleveland Stadium (built 1932), which featured an oval grandstand that was more friendly to goal-centered sports like football. A park built to suit all sports well, which was co-owned by the teams or the city, seemed advantageous to all, especially because it was less expensive to maintain one stadium rather than two. Some parks that were originally built for one sport were renovated to accommodate multiple sports.\n\nThe shape of the parks generally depended on the original use. Baseball parks that were renovated to accommodate football, like Candlestick Park and Anaheim Stadium, were usually asymmetrically shaped. Football stadiums that were renovated to accommodate baseball, like Sun Life Stadium and Mile High Stadium, were usually of a rectangular shape, though Mile High actually started its life in 1948 as a Minor League Baseball park known as Bears Stadium. Parks that were built to serve both were usually circular and completely enclosed on all sides. These were the parks that gained multi-purpose parks the reputation as bland cookie-cutter structures. The first of these parks was RFK Stadium (named changed in January 1969 from the original DC Stadium) in the District of Columbia. RFK is unique in that it hosted two different baseball teams, and that it was the first to \"originally\" be intended for multiple sports.\n\nA notable variant among the cookie-cutter stadia was Shea Stadium. One of the first parks designed and built for baseball and football, it did not feature an exterior of bare concrete, but was clad in steel. This steel was later painted blue, making Shea the only multi-purpose park to have an exterior that was not either gray or white. Also, the grandstand only extended just past the foul poles, and did not completely enclose the field. Plans were made to enclose the grandstand and build a dome, but engineers discovered that the structure could not handle the load of the proposed dome. Thus the stadium simply remained with the area behind the outfield fence open.\n\nOne major innovation of the multi-purpose parks was the cantilevered upper deck. In earlier ballparks, the columns used to support the upper decks obstructed the view from some seats in the lower deck. The upper decks were extended upwards and the columns removed. However, even though the extension counterbalanced some of the weight, the upper decks could no longer extend as close to the field and had to be moved back. Also, the roofs could no longer be as large, and often only covered the top 15 or so rows. This exposed fans to the elements.\n\nBesides the drawbacks of the cantilever design, there were other issues with these parks. With few exceptions, seating was angled to face the center of the field of play, rather than home plate. Luxury boxes, which were a part of football culture, were now introduced to baseball, and were usually placed below the upper decks, pushing upper deck seating farther from the field. The furthest seats in these parks were or more from the plate. The capacities of these stadiums were staggeringly large, due to football's smaller schedule drawing a larger crowd per game. However, they were usually far too large for baseball, further diminishing their intimacy. Even crowds of 40,000, a fair amount for baseball, seemed sparse. Often the only times they looked full were on opening day and playoff games. Due to the rectangular shape needed for football or soccer, outfield dimensions were generally symmetrical, and even seats at field level down the lines could be far from the action.\n\nSuch stadiums weren't much better for football. The \"cookie-cutters\" with swiveling, field-level sections proved problematic. Because the front rows were too close to the field, the fans had difficulty seeing over the football benches. This was evident in the movable seating sections in RFK Stadium. The first ten rows of the football configuration were practically at field level, and fans in those sections often stood up on their seats to get a better view. Other stadiums overcame this simply by covering those seats, not bothering to sell them. Despite being cost-effective, these problems eventually caused the parks to become unfashionable.\n\nThe multi-purpose architecture reached a climax when Toronto's SkyDome (now Rogers Centre) opened in 1989. It had state-of-the-art amenities including a retractable roof, hotel, and a restaurant behind the outfield from where patrons could view the games.\n\nOnly one of the purely open-air multi-purpose parks is still in use by baseball today: Oakland Coliseum. The Athletics plan to move out of Oakland Coliseum and build a new ballpark of their own in the future.\n\n\"Note: To reduce redundancy, this table does not list the indoor stadiums of the multi-purpose era in this section. However, all of the indoor ballparks of North America, which are listed in their own section, were also built as multi-purpose stadiums.\"\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>A baseball-only ballpark converted to a multi-purpose stadium.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>A football-only stadium converted to a multi-purpose stadium.\n\nWhile most teams turned to multi-purpose parks, some chose to build baseball-only parks. While these modern ballparks shirked some of the conventions of multi-purpose parks, they did include some of the new features. The most notable influences were the cantilevered upper decks, the use of seating colors other than green, and fairly plain concrete exteriors. The most important things, though, were that they had a more intimate feel to them, and they were built for baseball. While the multi-purpose parks have become all but extinct, some modern parks, such as Dodger Stadium and Kauffman Stadium, have been hailed for aging beautifully. Rather than build new parks, the teams have decided instead to renovate the current structures, adding a few newer conveniences. Several of the modern parks built as such have remained in use, with no indication of being demolished.\n\nWhile Cleveland Stadium is the ancestor to the multi-purpose ballpark, the ancestor of the modern ballpark is Milwaukee County Stadium. It was the first to feature a symmetrical, round outfield fence. It also featured the rounded V-shaped grandstand and colorful seats that are common among all modern parks. Coincidentally, it also would have been one of the earlier examples of a converted park as well. It was supposed to replace a minor league facility, and serve as home of the minor league team until a major league franchise could be lured to the city. However, the Braves came to Milwaukee earlier than expected, and the minor league team never played in the stadium.\n\nThe first two truly modern ballparks were built by the two New York teams who moved to California, the Giants and the Dodgers. Candlestick Park was created first, but was converted to a multi-purpose park to accommodate the 49ers. Dodger Stadium has been upgraded a number of times, but remains baseball-only and its original design is still largely intact.\n\nAnaheim Stadium, which was initially modeled closely on Dodger Stadium, was expanded for football as was Candlestick, but once the Rams departed, most of the extra outfield seating was peeled back, returning the structure to more like its original design.\n\nThe original Yankee Stadium is an exceptional case. Yankee Stadium was a jewel box park, albeit a very large one. It was showing its age in the 1970s, and the stadium was extensively renovated during 1973–75, converting it into more of a modern style ballpark. Many of the characteristics that defined it as a classical jewel box were also retained, so the remodeled Stadium straddled both categories.\n\nNew Comiskey Park (now Guaranteed Rate Field) was the last modern ballpark to be built in North America. A series of renovations have been made to make it appear more like a retro-classic ballpark.\n\nAlthough they were purposefully built for baseball, some of these stadiums also hosted professional soccer and football teams at times. The Minnesota Vikings played at Metropolitan Stadium during the Twins' entire tenure there, and the Green Bay Packers played a few home games at Milwaukee County Stadium every year from 1953 through 1994. A few of them, including Yankee Stadium, also hosted NASL teams during the 1970s.\n\nWith the 1960s came the first expansion teams. While some teams expanded in cities where there were established teams with facilities that could be shared, not all were as fortunate. This led to the emergence of two distinct subsets of parks in the major leagues: temporary ballparks and converted ballparks.\n\nIn some cases, there are plans to build a new ballpark for the expansion team, but it will not be completed until a few years after the team is established. This may be for a few reasons, such as delays or a desire to hold off until the deal is settled. In this case, an established building is used as a temporary home, often a minor league park. The first temporary ballparks were not actually used by expansion teams but by established franchises. When the Dodgers and Giants moved to California from New York, they played in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and Seals Stadium respectively while Dodger Stadium and Candlestick Park were being built.\n\nThe other case is when, rather than building a new park, the city renovates an existing minor league or college facility, expanding it to fit a major league team. These converted ballparks are different from football stadia that were converted to facilitate baseball in that converted ballparks were originally built to be baseball only, albeit for a non-major league level. Early converted ballparks were Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Municipal Stadium in Kansas City, and Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota. All three were expanded minor league facilities, although Baltimore and the Met were constructed with the idea of expanding to major league level in mind. Kansas City was a true established minor league park that was substantially expanded to accommodate major league size crowds.\n\nThese two types of ballpark are distinct because of their use, not their design. Because of this, a temporary or converted ballpark can also be any of the other types: jewel box, modern, multi-purpose, etc.\n\nAn important type of ballpark is the indoor park. These parks were covered with a fixed roof, usually a hard concrete dome. Reasons to build indoor parks were varied. The Astrodome, the first indoor sports stadium ever built, was built to escape the hot and very humid climate of Houston; the Kingdome was built to escape Seattle's constant rains, and the Sapporo Dome in Japan (which also hosts a soccer team) was built to escape Sapporo's extreme snowfall. There is little to no natural light in these parks, necessitating the use of one of the most distinguishing aspects of an indoor park: artificial turf. Since there was not enough light to grow grass, artificial turf was installed, and this affected the game. Artificial turf was harder, and thus a ball hit on the ground moved faster and bounced high. This, coupled with the usually dull white or gray roofs that could camouflage a fly ball, caused what Twins fans called a \"dome-field advantage\".\n\nA park of note is Olympic Stadium in Montreal. The park was designed with a large tower that loomed over top. Cables came down from the top of the tower to connect to the large oval center of the roof. This oval center was supposed to be lifted by the cables, opening the park up if the weather was pleasant. However, the mechanism never worked correctly, and what was supposed to be a retractable roof was initially not used, then used for only a short period of time, and later replaced with a permanently fixed roof, making the stadium a strictly indoor facility.\n\nIndoor parks faced many of the same problems of the multi-purpose parks, which was compounded with the added problem of playing an outdoors sport indoors. Tropicana Field is the only indoor-only or fixed-dome park left hosting a Major League Baseball team, and may be replaced in the near future.\n\nThe indoor parks were built for several different reasons, chief among those weather. However, as multi-purpose parks became unfashionable, so did the drab indoor parks. This led to the creation of retractable-roof parks. These allowed shelter from the elements, but still could be opened on a nice day. To be able to support the roof, most were closed in on all sides like multi-purpose and indoor parks, but as all retractable-roof parks except Rogers Centre are baseball only, every square foot does not need to be filled with seating, and there is plenty of room for open spaces or windows that look outside.\n\nBecause the roof needs to go somewhere when not covering the field, a distinguishing characteristic of the retractable roof park is a large extension of the interior spaces to either one side of the field or both sides that the roof sits on when retracted. The only exception to this is Miller Park whose fan-shaped roof folds in upon itself and hangs behind the stands down the foul lines. Often, when retracted, the roof still hangs over the field, casting large shadows. This is countered at Miller Park by large panes of glass under the roof.\n\nWhile most stadiums seal up when the roof is closed, others are at least partially open, with large gaps that do not let in harsh weather, but don't give the feel of being inside. Except for Rogers Centre, all of these parks feature natural grass.\n\nPittsburgh's Civic Arena was the first sports building in the world with a retractable roof; however, the building was originally constructed for the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera, which moved out in 1969 due to dissatisfaction with the acoustics in the arena. The arena's long-term tenants, the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins, never played with the roof open, and the arena itself was never used for baseball. While Montreal's Olympic Stadium was the first baseball park to have a retractable roof, the roof was plagued by numerous problems, and was never fully used. As a result, it is not generally considered to be a retractable-roof facility. This made Rogers Centre the first fully functional retractable-roof park. It managed to succeed where Olympic Stadium failed, building a multi-section roof that folded upon itself, retracting over the hotel in center field.\n\nRetractable-roof parks can vary greatly in style, from the utilitarian (Rogers Centre), to those infused with retro elements (such as Minute Maid Park), to the contemporary (Marlins Park). The style of each park reflects the popular architecture of the era in which it was built. (This differs from indoor ballparks — all of which were built during the time of multi-purpose parks, and thus reflected the same \"flying-saucer\" style.) When Rogers Centre opened in 1989, baseball was near the end of the modern and multi-purpose era. Chase Field, Safeco Field, Minute Maid Park, and Miller Park all opened in the middle of the retro era. When Marlins Park opened in 2012, it introduced a new and different style, and perhaps the beginning of a new era. The Texas Rangers intend to build Globe Life Field in the retro style similar to their current ballpark, Globe Life Park.\n\nTherefore, the term \"retractable-roof ballpark/stadium\" is not a description of the overall architectural style of the building, but of the functional aspect of it. For this reason, retractable-roof parks are also dual-listed in style-based types of ballparks. For example, the 4 retractable-roof parks built during the retro era are also considered to be retro-modern ballparks.\n\nIn 1992, Oriole Park at Camden Yards opened in Baltimore. Going in a different direction from the multi-purpose and modern ballparks, Camden Yards harkened back to the old jewel box parks. This began the building of a series of parks known as the retro-classic ballparks, or, simply, retro ballparks.\n\nThe retro parks were built with all the luxuries of the newer parks, such as luxury boxes and more restrooms and concession areas, along with new additions, such as indoor concourses that are open to the field, allowing fans to always have a view of the game. However (except for a few exceptions harkening back to the wooden ballpark era), the aesthetics shifted back to jewel box conventions, which included the use of green seats, bricks, stone, and green-painted exposed steel.\n\nA major divergence from jewel boxes was the layout of the grandstand. The focus was now on everyone in the park having a good view. Columns were missing as with the modern parks, but the upper deck was drawn back and shrunk, while the middle tiers grew in size, causing a stepped effect. The cantilevered upper deck was no longer a large necessity. However, since these new upper decks were drawn back, the shape of the inclined seating was clearly expressed on the exterior, a feature that is a hallmark of modern parks.\n\nLike the jewel box parks, the outfield fences were angled rather than the gradual curve of the newer parks, and often had quirky dimensions. The requirements for minimum distance to the outfield fences were frequently waived during this time.\n\nTeams with multi-purpose and indoor parks longed for this beautiful and classic look, and began systematically demolishing them and moving to either retro-classic or retro-modern parks. Since Camden Yards opened, two-thirds of all major league teams have opened new ballparks, each of which contain unique features. The most important feature was that they were built primarily for baseball, although these venues have also hosted football, soccer and ice hockey games. Turner Field was originally constructed as Centennial Olympic Stadium for the 1996 Summer Olympics and was retrofitted to baseball the following year.\n\nGuaranteed Rate Field has an unusual place in ballpark history. It was the last modern park built, a year before Camden Yards and hence just missing the retro movement. It was viewed as obsolete only a year into its life. The White Sox responded with a series of renovations to give the park more retro charm. This included the changing from a cantilever upper deck to a flat roof with columns, the change from a symmetrical fence to a more recognizably-shaped asymmetrical fence, and the adoption of a primarily dark-green color scheme, reminiscent of the original Comiskey Park. Upper deck seating was also reduced to eliminate locations which had proven unpopular with fans, and often went conspicuously unsold.\n\nThe most recent retro-classic ballparks were built in New York City. Queens' Citi Field is modeled after Ebbets Field, and the Bronx's Yankee Stadium is modeled after the pre-renovation \"House that Ruth Built\". Both parks opened in 2009.\n\nTeams are now trending away from the retro-classic look and are instead building retro-modern and contemporary ballparks. Turner Field was the first retro-classic park replaced, as the Atlanta Braves moved to SunTrust Park after the 2016 season, while the Texas Rangers intend to move from Globe Life Park in Arlington to a new retractible roof ballpark in 2020.\n\nWhile Camden Yards influenced nearly every ballpark built after it, not all fully adhere to its design. Those that deviate to incorporate more modern-looking elements are called retro-modern ballparks.\n\nProgressive Field was built two years after Camden Yards, and featured the angular, asymmetrical fences of varying heights, a smaller upper deck, stepped tiers, and an unobtrusive singular color scheme. While the interior has all the hallmarks of a retro park, the exterior did not feature the look of the jewel box parks. It could not truly be called a retro-classic park.\n\nMany of today's parks have followed in this second school of retro. Rather than brick, the exteriors heavily feature white- or gray-painted steel. If there is any masonry, it is sandstone or limestone. Some feature progressive elements such as curtain walls, or retractable roofs.\n\nAngel Stadium of Anaheim has seen many changes throughout the years. It was originally a modern park, similar to the Angels' previous home, Dodger Stadium. When the NFL's Los Angeles Rams left the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 1980 and set up shop in what was then Anaheim Stadium, the first round of renovations began. The grandstand was expanded to completely enclose the stadium, turning it into a multi-purpose park. The Rams left in 1994, leaving the Angels alone in the large, 65,000-seat stadium. After a two-year renovation, the steel was painted green, and what concrete remained was painted sandstone, including the sweeping curve of the entrance plaza. The seating configuration was significantly altered, most notably by tearing out most of the outfield seating except for parts of the lower decks in left and right fields, to more closely resemble the original design from the park's first 15 years. The finished product in 1998 was a retro-modern ballpark.\n\nThe same year, when Chase Field opened for the expansion Arizona Diamondbacks, it incorporated a retractable roof and a swimming pool — elements that did not exist in jewel-box ballparks. Despite the absence of MLB history in the Phoenix area and an overwhelming roof design, much of the interior was still built with all of the hallmarks of retro, similar to Progressive Field. Although Chase Field was not the first retractable-roof ballpark in history, it was the first in a wave of four retractable-roof ballparks (opening within just four years) to follow the retro-modern pattern.\n\nDuring the second decade of retro, Petco Park and Kauffman Stadium followed the construction and renovation concepts of Progressive Field and Angel Stadium, respectively. Meanwhile, the period saw another subset of three new retro-modern stadiums that pushed away from classic parks even more.\n\nWhen Great American Ball Park opened in 2003, it featured a contemporary-looking, glass-wrapped facade. Such prominent use of elements that were unfamiliar even to pre-1992 modern stadiums signaled that some stadium planners were more willing to incorporate designs that looked into the 21st century as much as they did the 20th. Five years later, Nationals Park built off Cincinnati's design, making yet more liberal use of glass along with white concrete that would not clash with architecture in the District. Nationals Park became the first stadium to go green while still offering all of the amenities — another concept that looked ahead instead of behind. The retro-modern style climaxed in 2010 with the sculptured, contemporary exterior and canopy of Target Field, rendering it almost unrecognizable from the outside. Its cantilevered glass on top of a limestone base was designed partly to functionally fit the tiny 8-acre plot in the middle of a bustling transportation interchange. But the principal architect of Target Field, Earl Santee of Populous, said that the exterior was also an artistic interpretation of the culture of Minnesotans: a dichotomy of cosmopolitan and natural. Designing the building as a metaphor for people was a different way of thinking about ballpark architecture.\n\nThe exterior of the later retro-contemporary trio of ballparks progressively evolved further and further from jewel-box or even modern-style parks. Yet, in the stands and on the field they still have the familiar classic feel while implementing the marks of retro (i.e., unique-shaped fences, forest green or other singular color scheme, etc.).\n\nPrior to the start of the 2012 baseball season, \"USA Today\" noted that new Marlins Park would \"perhaps provide a coda to the postmodern Camden Yards era\". After 2 decades of the retro style dominating ballpark architecture, a new type of design emerged in 2012 with the opening of Marlins Park, snapping the consecutive streak of 20 new (plus 3 renovated) MLB retro stadiums. This latest style's purpose is to make the fan experience the present-day culture of the stadium's surrounding city or area, and rejects the basic notion of retro. Stadium planners are calling the style contemporary.\n\nA contemporary stadium for Tampa Bay was designed, but the project was cancelled. \"The New Yorker\" wrote regarding the new MLB architecture: \"The retro mold has finally been broken, but this might be the last chance a new style gets for some time.\" \n\nThe numbers mean the number of feet from home plate to the wall of that part of the field. Left and Right Field normally refer to the distances along the foul lines. Left Center and Right Center are the approximate power alley figures. Center Field could mean straightaway center field or it could mean to the deepest part of the center field area. Backstop refers to the distance behind home plate to the backstop screen. These numbers are one researcher's opinion of the true values and may differ from the numbers marked on the wall/fence by as much as . Capacity figures may also vary.\n<nowiki>* </nowiki>Fenway Park is 37,227 during day games\n\n<nowiki>** </nowiki>Oakland Coliseum is expandable to 55,945.\n\n<nowiki>*** </nowiki>Tropicana Field is expandable to 42,735.\n†Actual distance to center field is ; the markings are to the left and right of dead center.\n\n††At Fenway Park, deep center is and straightaway center is .\n\nParks are ordered by date of construction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48406961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48406961", "title": "Batman and Robin Eternal", "text": "Batman and Robin Eternal\n\nBatman and Robin Eternal is a 6-month weekly limited series published by DC Comics, that began in October 2015 and concluded in March 2016. The series featured Batman, Robin, and their allies, and was a follow up series to \"Batman Eternal\". \"Batman and Robin Eternal\" was written by James Tynion IV, Scott Snyder, Tim Seeley, Steve Orlando, Genevieve Valentine, Jackson Lanzing, Collin Kelly, and Ed Brisson.\n\nIn September 2015, DC Comics held another Batman Day celebration, re-releasing Batman #35 as \"Batman: Endgame Special Edition\" for free in stores and electronically. This comic contained an 8-page preview of \"Batman and Robin Eternal\" written by Tynion and drawn by Tony S. Daniel, announced as the lead artist for the series. The 8-page preview format matched what DC Comics had done at the end of the Convergence event, with 8-page previews giving readers a taste of the new, relaunched, or continuing series coming in June.\n\nIn the preview, two timelines converge on the climax of the forthcoming series - Batman hiding a secret on a Bat-flashdrive concerning the villain \"Mother\" from Dick Grayson many years ago, while Grayson was still Robin, and in the future, a massive worldwide battle between Mother's forces and the Batfamily.\n\nThe series toggles between the present, where Dick Grayson and his allies battle the plans of the mysterious Mother, and the past, where Batman and Robin face the Scarecrow for the first time.\n\nDick Grayson, on assignment for Spyral, teams up with Tim Drake (Red Robin) and Jason Todd (Red Hood) to stop a cyborg cyclist. Later, he is attacked by a group of children and his own field handler, both claiming to act on behalf of someone called \"Mother\". Running away, he meets a nearly silent young woman who also says one word - \"Mother\", but instead of attempting to kill him, she deliberately holds back and gives him a Bat-flashdrive containing a confession from Batman, as well as a list of names. The recording identifies the young woman as Cassandra Cain.\n\nHarper Row, bitter that Batman's apparent death at the hand of the Joker has robbed her of the chance to be Batman's partner, suffers an attack by one of Mother's agents calling himself the Orphan. Cassandra Cain saves her, then chases after the Orphan. Dick meets Harper and her roommate Stephanie Brown (the Spoiler), and takes them to the Batcave to get Harper medical attention and meet with Tim and Jason. Dick's superior, Helena Bertinlli, Matron of Spyral, discovers that Mother's agents are going to attack Bruce Wayne at a party.\n\nDick rushes off to save Bruce, and is met by members of the We Are Robin gang (including Duke Thomas) and Batgirl. They save Bruce from dozens of ax-wielding assassins, and Dick follows a lead while Tim, Jason, and Stephanie deal with the disappearance of an injured Harper and the mysterious Cassandra.\n\nDick's lead turns out to be Tim's witness-protection-program parents, which causes a split in the Robins - Tim and Jason investigating one lead, Dick another. Dick, Harper, and Cass head to Prague, where they find Mother waiting for them. She entices Dick to join her, but he rejects her offer and instead battles her agents at the ballet alongside Harper and Cass. In the wake of their victory, Harper accidentally triggers something in Cass, who flees.\n\nJason and Tim follow the electronic signal that coincided with the attack on Bruce and find Bane attempting to take back his former country from the mysterious Order of St. Dumas. Working together with the villain, Jason and Tim stumble upon Azrael, also known as Jean-Paul Valley, apparently another one of Mother's children, sold to the Order as an angel of death against their enemies. Tim suffers the effects of Azrael's mental attack, and Jason carries him away to safety.\n\nDick and Harper follow the trail of the Orphan to the identity of David Cain, but are surprised to find the Sculptor, Cain's other half in Mother's inner circle. The Sculptor has powerful telepathic powers which Mother uses to shape children traumatized by Cain's violence. Using these powers, the Sculptor shows Harper Cassandra's training, deprived of language so that she must read movement and body cues, and forced to kill a woman in a dark alley. Dick breaks the mind meld when the Sculptor begins showing Harper Batman's meetings and deals with Mother, but the Sculptor only shows Dick her own orphaning and abduction by Mother, as well as a few hints of what Batman did in her service, before she disappears and reveals the entire encounter was her projection.\n\nBased on the Sculptor's warning, Dick and Harper know that Mother is murdering all of her old children, and rush to her training center, the Nursery, where they find Cassandra standing against her father. Inspired by her meeting with Batman, Cassandra paints the Bat on her face with blood as a mask, and together, Dick, Harper, and Cass fight their way past the Orphan to escape from the nuclear self destruction of the base and on to Spyral's headquarters to plan their next moves.\n\nIn Dick's first confrontation with a supervillain as Batman's partner, Batman and Robin face Jonathan Crane's students, driven by Scarecrow's fear toxin. Later, they are ambushed by Crane in a cornfield and first exposed to the fear toxin. They follow Scarecrow to a meeting with the Orphan and Cassandra Cain, and discover that the villains are headed to Prague. After a failed attempt to stop Scarecrow's plane, Bruce discovers the existence of a woman known as Mother from a fellow society member, who tells him he purchased his wife made to order by this human trafficker. The man is murdered by the Orphan that night, and Batman keeps the secret from Dick, telling him that they are chasing Scarecrow alone to Prague. After setting up an international Batcave, Batman secretly meets with Mother and Orphan, apparently wanting to replace Dick with a more reliable partner. Batman and Robin conduct an assault on Scarecrow's warehouse, and while Robin disables a bomb on the roof, Batman forces Scarecrow to work for him against Mother. In his ambition, Scarecrow reveals that Mother plans to gas every major city in the world with his newly created \"trauma toxin\", leaving billions of children ripe for her new process of brainwashing and manipulation.\n\nAt San Diego Comic-Con 2015, Tynion and Snyder announced that Cassandra Cain would return to mainstream continuity in \"Batman and Robin Eternal\", and serve as one of three main characters alongside Dick Grayson and Harper Row (Bluebird).\n"}
{"id": "32560165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32560165", "title": "Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens", "text": "Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens\n\nBen 10: Destroy All Aliens (originally titled Ben 10: Alien Dimensions, Ben 10: The 3D Movie, or Ben 10 3D: The Movie) is a Singaporean-American computer-animated science fiction action film that premiered on Cartoon Network Asia on March 11, 2012, and in the United States on Cartoon Network March 23, 2012, as part of \"Ben 10 Week\" which ran from March 19, 2012 – March 24, 2012. It was officially unveiled at San Diego Comic-Con International 2011. This is Cartoon Network Asia's first film in collaboration with Cartoon Network Studios. The movie would be Cartoon Network's first CG animated movie as well as the first time the Ben 10 universe would be interpreted in full CG. Tiny Island Productions, producer of Qubo's \"Shelldon\", provided the CGI for the film. David Kwok, CEO of Tiny Island Productions, commented that having an opportunity to work on the film was amazing and challenging. This movie took place after the first Ben 10 movie, \"\". It is dedicated to Dulce Lim Chen.\n\nTaking place shortly after the events of the original \"Ben 10\", Ben, Gwen and Grandpa Max spend their evenings fighting aliens on the streets of Bellwood. During a battle against a robotic tank, Ben as Upgrade and Gwen argue about the best way to defeat it, leading to Gwen using her extraordinarily strong pink-colored magic to cast a dismantling spell on the tank while Ben is attached to it. Unknown to the children, this leads to a malfunction in the Omnitrix.\n\nLater, after a mishap in school where the Omnitrix accidentally teleports his homework away, Ben is grounded by his parents and forced to stay home and do a history report. Ben attempts to work on the report before the Omnitrix teleports his laptop away as well. Shortly afterwards, Tetrax Shard arrives and tells Ben that Azmuth has asked to meet with him. They go to meet Azmuth but are attacked by an evil version of Waybig. Tetrax and Ben fight the alien, who is teleported into the Omnitrix, though neither of them is aware of it. Tetrax decides to take Ben to search for Azmuth and activates a new function on the Omnitrix. Before he can explain this new ability, the ship is attacked and Ben is sucked out into the atmosphere, falling to the ground as Diamondhead. It is later revealed that the new ability prevents Ben from returning to human form when he times out, simply switching alien forms. Ben as Fourarms arrives at Stonehenge and is attacked by a weaponizing Galvanic Mechamorph, the same species as Upgrade, who demands to know about the evil Waybig that attacked Ben. Ben tries to explain he knows nothing, but the Mechamorph only continues to attack and the Mechamorph's teleporting ability causes the pair to carry their battle across the globe, destroying part of Stonehenge and nearly damaging Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro and fighting at the Great Pyramids in Egypt before arriving back in Bellwood. Ben transforms into Grey Matter and manages to escape the Mechamorph.\n\nMeanwhile, Gwen and Grandpa Max receive a call from Ben's parents Carl and Sandra informing them that Ben has escaped the house. They go in search of him, only to find Tetrax and discover Azmuth's ship. Looking at the ship's log, they discover that Azmuth disguised it as a semi truck to track down and fix the malfunctioning Omnitrix, but crashed and was destroyed by the evil Waybig. After escaping the Mechamorph, Ben as Grey Matter was mistaken as a mouse by Sandra and they soon encounter him back at his house and Tetrax restores Ben's Omnitrix to normal just as the Mechamorph catches up to them. Gwen sees how the Omnitrix reacts after Ben returns to human form and deduces what has happened just as she, Ben, Tetrax and the Mechamorph are transported into the Omnitrix itself.\n\nInside, Ben and the Mechamorph continue to battle before being attacked by a swarm of Stinkflies just as Gwen and Tetrax are ambushed by a herd of Wildmutt. The four catch up with each other and they realize that the evil Waybig is inside with them just as he resurfaces. The Mechamorph, who is revealed to be Azmuth's father, attacks the Waybig in revenge for killing his son while Gwen explains to Ben about the malfunction that she caused to the Omnitrix when she cast the dismantling spell on the robotic tank while Ben was attached to it. She uses Azmuth's father to reverse the transportation and return them to Earth. Unfortunately, the Omnitrix malfunctions again and transforms Ben's parents into Wildmutt and Heatblast, causing Gwen to realize that the evil Waybig is Azmuth himself. Leaving Grandpa Max and Tetrax to handle his parents, Ben and Gwen follow Azmuth's father and Azmuth to the city park where Ben transforms into Waybig to subdue Azmuth and hold off his father while he and Gwen try to reverse the transformation. Between the two Waybigs, they do a few hundred million dollars in property damage from smashing huge building after huge building. They soon convince Azmuth's father that his son is the very alien that they are fighting and the three work together to convince Azmuth to regain control of himself, use his father's Mechamorph abilities to fix the Omnitrix and return Azmuth to normal. Azmuth reprimands Ben and Gwen for their errors and reveals his father is a Galvan wielding Mechamorph-type enhanced armor. Azmuth reveals that the Omnitrix was so filled with pink mana; Gwen asks what he means, to which he simply says that she will know eventually.\n\nReturning to Ben's house, Azmuth restores Ben's parents to normal and repairs the Rust bucket, previously destroyed in the battle, before leaving to reconcile with his own father. Ben's parents, having forgotten that they grounded Ben, tell him to enjoy his fishing trip with Grandpa Max and Gwen. Ben declines, having learned to be more responsible, and stays home to finish his history report for school. The movie ends with Ben, Gwen, and Grandpa Max on another road trip where they encounter Doctor Animo and the three prepare for another exciting battle.\n\nOnly one short is based on Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens and it's named as Ben 10: Road Trip Rumble.\n\n\n\nTo promote the film, a toy line manufactured by Bandai has been announced to launch around the same time the film premieres. Cartoon Network Asia and Philippines held a contest for one male and one female to be \"immortalized in Ben 10 history.\" The two winners would receive \"the ultimate voice over role,\" assorted prizes (clothing, toys, etc.) and a VIP limo ride to walk on the \"green carpet\" at the \"Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens\" premiere. A similar competition was held in Malaysia and the Middle East. Filipino viewers heard the Philippine winners while the rest of Southeast Asia will hear the Malaysian kids. The winners of the contest in Philippines were later revealed to be Nina Teo and Xander Ching who are voicing two of Ben's classmates. Cartoon Network Africa held a contest to win Green Movie Tickets to the exclusive premiere of the film in Johannesburg on March 10, 2012.\n\nThe film was later released on iTunes and other electronic-based stores, such as the PlayStation Store.\n\nMadman Entertainment released \"Destroy All Aliens\" in Region 4 on June 20, 2012. Warner Home Video released the film in Region 2 on October 1, 2012. The film was also released in Region 1 on April 16, 2013.\n\nThe film received positive reviews, as it currently holds a 83% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on audience reviews. Emily Ashby of Commonsense Media gave \"Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens\" a 3 out of 5. Although criticizing on how much violence exists in the context of the story Ashby states that the story emphasizes the joy of family, even when that comes with rules a person does not like.\n\nIn the United States, \"Ben 10: Destroy All Aliens\" increased by double-digits across the board versus the same time period in 2011. The broadcast placed #1 in its time period in boys 2-11.\n\nThe film won the \"Best 3D Animated Program\" category at the \"Asian Television Awards 2012\" as well as the Gold Award for \"Best Movie Campaign\" in the 2012 ProMax Awards. The award demonstrated the high level of animation talent on show in Asia and the talent available here, commented Sunny Saha from Turner International.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1991647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1991647", "title": "Blue Tongue Entertainment", "text": "Blue Tongue Entertainment\n\nBlue Tongue Entertainment Pty Ltd was an Australian video game developer founded in 1995. It was acquired by THQ on 17 November 2004, and remained an internal development studio of THQ until its closure in August 2011. In addition to THQ, Blue Tongue had worked with the publishers Hasbro Interactive and Vivendi Universal Games.\n\nBlue Tongue originally provided web development services, and moved into video games in 1995 with their first release, \"AFL Finals Fever\". It was released on 9 June 1996 and reached number 3 on the Australian software sales charts. Another game, \"Riding Star\", was their first international release. It was ported to multiple platforms, including the PlayStation and the Game Boy. Blue Tongue developed the TOSHI game engine used internally for many of its projects.\n\nIn 2008, Blue Tongue finished \"de Blob\", its first original game since \"Riding Star\", for the Wii system. \"de Blob\" was met with critical acclaim from various gaming websites, including Official Nintendo Magazine, which awarded the game a rating of 92% and a Gold Award, and IGN.com, which awarded the game several Wii-specific awards in its 2008 video game awards, including Best Platform Game, Best Graphics Technology, and Best Use of Sound. In addition to the awards won, IGN also nominated \"de Blob\" for several other Wii-specific awards, including Best New IP, Best Original Score, Most Innovative Design, and Game of the Year.\n\nIn 2011, Blue Tongue was announced to be closed down under a restructuring and realignment plan by parent company, THQ\n\n"}
{"id": "45470272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45470272", "title": "Bolivarian Communication and Information System", "text": "Bolivarian Communication and Information System\n\nThe Bolivarian Communication and Information System (SiBCI) is a conglomerate of Venezuela state media that manages public radio, television, and multimedia attached to the Ministry of Popular Power for Communication and Information. It is located on channel 24.3 in Digital Terrestrial Television in Venezuela.\n\nAfter reviewing the possible reach and penetration of the different types of media, the Venezuelan government decided to assign specific functions:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAgencia Venezolana de Noticias - created in 2005 with versions in Castilian and English.\n\n"}
{"id": "25442622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25442622", "title": "Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992", "text": "Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992\n\nThe Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (also known as the 1992 Cable Act) is a United States federal law which required cable systems to carry most local broadcast channels and prohibited cable operators from charging local broadcasters to carry their signal.\n\nIn adopting the 1992 Cable Act, Congress stated that it wanted to promote the availability of diverse views and information, to rely on the marketplace to the maximum extent possible to achieve that availability, to ensure cable operators continue to expand their capacity and program offerings, to ensure cable operators do not have undue market power, and to ensure consumer interests are protected in the receipt of cable service. The Federal Communications Commission adopted regulations to implement the Act and its goals.\n\nThe Legislation was passed by the 102nd United States Congress and sponsored by Senator John C. Danforth from Missouri. The act was first introduced to the Senate in January 14, 1991. The United States House of Representatives passed the bill on September 17, 1992 (voting 280–128), and the United States Senate passed it on September 22, 1992 (voting 74–25). It was vetoed by the President George H.W. Bush on October 3, 1992. After the veto of the President, it again passed Senate over veto on October 5, 1992 (voting 74–25) and on the same day, it passed House as well (voting 308–114). The Act became a Public Law No: 102-385 in October 5, 1992.\n\nThe Act was enacted by the Senate and House of the Representatives of the United States of America. It was passed over President Bush's veto. The act was created in order to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to provide increased consumer protection and to promote increased competition in the cable television and related markets, and for other purposes.\n\nThe Communications Act of 1934 was first amended in October 1984 by the U.S. Congress' Cable Communications Act of 1984. The general purpose of Cable Communications Act of 1984 was to define jurisdictional boundaries for regulating cable television systems among federal, state and local authorities.\n\nAfter 1984 Act had been enacted, the failure to balance the unequal growth within provider and subscriber has become problematic. While the number of households subscribing to cable television system and channel capacity of cable systems increased, the competition among distributors of cable services held back. The rates for cable services increased excessively, surpassing inflation. As a result, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 had been enacted by the U.S. Congress. The Act had the goal to restore Federal regulation of the cable television industry and respond to complaints about poor cable service and high rates.\n\nThe chairman of the House Telecommunications and Finance subcommittee and Democrat of Massachusetts Representative Edward J. Markey said \"This is a pro-consumer, pro-competition bill designed to rein in the renegades in the cable industry who are gouging consumers with repeated rate increases\".\n\nThe Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 addressed various areas such as ensuring the growth of cable operators under effective competition, expanding the diversity of view and information through increased availability of cable television to the public, and protecting the interests of video programmers and consumers.\n\nIn order to promote competition among cable services, the act restrained Federal agency or States from regulating the rates for the provision of cable service. In the legislature, when describing competition among cable providers, the term \"effective\" was used and defined. The term \"effective competition\" meant that a fewer than 30 percent of the households in the franchise area subscribe to the cable service of a cable system. The rate regulation were to take effect 180 days after the date of enactment, while Federal Communications Commission's authority could prescribe regulations on the day of enactment.\n\nThe assurance of increased availability of cable television to the public was achieved through making the carriage of local commercial television signals an obligation for cable operators. The legislation states that each cable operator must carry the signals of local commercial television stations and qualified low-power broadcasting stations. Carriage of additional broadcast television signals on such system was stated to be at the discretion of such operator. In detail, a cable operator of a cable system that had 12 or fewer usable activated channels were required to carry at least three local commercial television stations' signals. Here, the local commercial television station refers to any full power television broadcast licensed station and operating on a channel regularly assigned to its community by the commission that is within the same television market as the cable system. Television stations could opt out of cable carriage by invoking retransmission consent.\n\nIn contribution to diversifying channel selection for the public, the section 5 of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 also requires each cable operator of a cable system to carry the signals of a qualified non-commercial educational television stations.\n\nThe consumer protection and customer service is ensured through section 8 of the legislature. In order to suggest change in the treatment of such public, the Section 632 of the Communications Act of 1934 had been amended. First, franchising authority was to establish and enforce customer service requirements of the cable operator. Second, the Commission had to establish standards that would urge cable operators to fulfill their customer service requirements within 180 days of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. Lastly, consumer protection laws and customer service requirement agreement standards set by the Commission had to be strictly followed.\n\nIn order to allow competition and fair access to programming by direct-broadcast satellite providers, the act also contained a provision that required cable channels to offer their carriage to satellite providers at reasonable rates if they were owned by a cable provider themselves.\n\nThis rule had a notable loophole; it only took effect if the channel used satellites as part of its distribution infrastructure. This came to be known as the \"terrestrial loophole\". The terrestrial loophole was famously used by several regional sports networks directly owned by cable companies, such as Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia (owned by the locally based Comcast cable company), Cox Cable's 4SD in San Diego (a local channel which carried San Diego Padres coverage), and MSG (then owned by Cablevision, it has since been spun out into a separate entity). As they did not use satellite uplinks, their owners were able to selectively prevent competing television providers from having access to these lucrative networks, and then used their exclusivity to attract subscribers from competing services (such as satellite providers). For example, MSG used the loophole to prevent the competing Verizon FiOS service from carrying its high definition feed.\n\nThe FCC began an effort to remove the loophole, following complaints by AT&T, considering 4SD's refusal to allow carriage on its U-verse service (but still allowing cable companies in other areas of the city to carry it) to be an anti-competitive practice. The company cited that its inability to carry 4SD had hurt the market share of U-verse TV in San Diego, taking it below its average share in other markets. In 2010, the FCC voted to modify the rules to remove the loophole.\n\nIn October 2012, the FCC voted to sunset the program access rules. The commission argued that the rule was antiquated, since satellite and IPTV-based competitors had become capable of sustaining viable competition to cable. The FCC will still address discriminatory carriage practices, but on a case-by-base basis.\n\nAfter the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 had been enacted, there was a district court ruling pressing for change in the Act during the following year 1993. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson of the district court in Washington did support regulation of cable rates by the 1992 Cable Act saying that horizontal-integration limitation between cable operators and broadcast stations with local cable system was intended to promote competition by preventing concentration of cable systems connected under the hands of a few companies. On the other hand, the Judge stated that Cable Act hadn't specified limits on horizontal integration thus, ordered the Federal Communications Commission to come up with regulations. The regulation would require a cable operator to construct \"reasonable limits\" on the number of subscribers they could reach.\n\nThe Congress' passage of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 authorized broadcast stations to demand payment from cable systems that carry them. Nearing the monetary agreement deadline and retransmission effective date in October 6, 1993, there was an incremental conflict between broadcast stations and cable systems. If cable systems failed to meet certain consensus, it was to be dropped from the station's lineups.\n\nThe two sides of the story can be described as follows: broadcast stations demanded compensation on a per-subscriber basis from cable operators insisting that its production worth a value. Cable companies on the other hand took a pro-subscriber side, saying that what is free alreadye.g., households with antennas can receive a signal for freeshould remain free.\n\nAnother media source have revealed that, on the issue of cable operators \"must-carry\" cable television broadcasters option stated in the Cable Act of 1992, both sides showed signs of bewilderment lost in the 500-page law.\n\nConsequently, as a way of satisfying the needs of both broadcast stations and cable companies, new cable channels that were run by broadcast networks and carried by cable systems were created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8830344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8830344", "title": "Cage Fury Fighting Championships", "text": "Cage Fury Fighting Championships\n\nCage Fury Fighting Championships (CFFC) is an American mixed martial arts (MMA) promotion primarily operating in the Northeastern United States. Founded by Felix and Amy Martinez, they promoted their first shows in Atlantic City, New Jersey, launching the careers of fighters such as Kimbo Slice. The last-minute cancellation of its sixth event under the ownership of Felix and Amy Martinez in 2007 signaled its temporary demise; however, it resurfaced nearly four years later when Vineland, New Jersey native Robert Haydak Jr. purchased the organization and began promoting shows. Since then Haydak has re-invented the CFFC brand, bringing it to be considered one of the top Regional MMA Promotions in the United States.\n\nCFFC launched the careers of several Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) fighters such as Aljamain Sterling, Paul Felder, George Sullivan, and Jimmie Rivera among others. They also played host to a number of other fighters that have appeared on the UFC roster such as Carmelo Marrero, Jim and Dan Miller, Nick Catone, Lyman Good, and Zach Makovsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "49600314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49600314", "title": "Casey Powell Lacrosse 16", "text": "Casey Powell Lacrosse 16\n\nCasey Powell Lacrosse 16 is a field lacrosse simulation video game developed by Big Ant Studios and published by Crosse Studios for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One that was released on March 9, 2016.<ref name=\"http://www.insidelacrosse.com\"></ref> Casey Powell was a star lacrosse player at Syracuse University and in Major League Lacrosse.\n\nCommunity Share has allowed for over 50 collegiate lacrosse teams and more than 9 pro lacrosse teams and developer-created teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "12815137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12815137", "title": "Choirbook", "text": "Choirbook\n\nA Choirbook is a large format manuscript used by choirs in churches or cathedrals during the Middle Ages and Renaissance. The book is large enough for the entire choir to read from one book. Choirbooks were generally put on a stand with the smaller boy sopranos in front and the men in back. Once the printing of music became easier and more commonplace, choirbooks fell out of favour, replaced by smaller, cheaper, and easier to handle books and octavos.\n\nA choirbook was a major investment. Many of them were stark and utilitarian and show signs of heavy and constant use. At larger cathedrals choir books were sometimes lavishly decorated and illuminated. Since they represent an important expense they were rarely owned by single people, but rather by families or institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28137290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28137290", "title": "D-Efeitos", "text": "D-Efeitos\n\nD-Efeitos is a Brazilian street dance group. They rose to national fame after winning the first season of the reality talent show Qual o o seu Talento - SBT.\n\nD-Efeitos (English: \"D-Effects\") is part of the company \"Discípulos do Ritmo (English: \"Disciples of Rhythm\") and was formed by André Luís, André Torres and Renan in 2009 to compete in parallel.\n\nAccording to Soldier, the troupe manager, the company is very known outside Brazil. \"They came to revolutionize. They are very respected by Americans, Europeans and Asians\", he assures.\n\nAmong other titles, D-Efeitos already won the Joinville Dance Festival (cited by the Guinness Book as the largest dance festival in the world) in the street dance category, with a mixture of all branches of street dance, choreographed a striking rhythm of music.\n\nIn mid-2009, the group auditioned on \"Qual é o Seu Talento? 1\", then advanced to the São Paulo Round, Semi-Finals and Finals with all the judges heavily praised their performances throughout the competition.\n\nThe finale took place on December 16, 2009 and was a 90-minute special. Each judge had to buzzed out one out of the six remaining acts until only the final two remaining. D-Efeitos coming out as the winners, Magician Renner was the runner-up and singer Edu Porto came in third place. The group won a R$100,000 prize for their victory.\n\nD-Efeitos made two shows in São Paulo on May 12 and May 13, 2010, where the receive special guests at a concert, which took place at Teatro Brigadeiro, SP. WaziMu!, Cia. Kahal, Frank Ejara and Discípulos do Ritmo also attend the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "12160605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12160605", "title": "ESRB re-rating of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion", "text": "ESRB re-rating of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion\n\nIn May 2006, the North American Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) changed the rating of \",\" a video game for PCs, the PlayStation 3 and the Xbox 360, from \"Teen\" (13+) to \"Mature\" (17+). The ESRB cited the presence of content not considered in their original review in the published edition of \"Oblivion\". This included detailed depictions of blood and gore and sexually explicit content. The sexually explicit content was an art file, made accessible by a third-party modification called the \"Oblivion Topless Mod\", that rendered the game with topless female characters.\n\nIn response to the new content, the ESRB conducted a new review of \"Oblivion,\" showing to its reviewers the content originally submitted by the game's publisher along with the newly disclosed content. The new review resulted in an M rating. The ESRB reported that Bethesda Softworks, the game's developer, would promptly notify all retailers of the change, issue stickers for retailers and distributors to affix on the product, display the new rating in all following product shipments and marketing, and create a downloadable patch rendering the topless skin inaccessible. Bethesda complied with the request, but issued a press release declaring their disagreement with the ESRB's rationale. Although certain retailers began to check for ID before selling \"Oblivion\" as a result of the change, and the change elicited criticism for the ESRB, the events passed by with little notice from the public at large. Other commentators remarked on the injustice of punishing a company for the actions of its clients, and one called the event a \"pseudo-sequel\" to the Hot Coffee minigame controversy.\n\nThe ESRB's review process involves the submission, by the game's publisher, of a video which captures all \"pertinent content\" in the game, where pertinent content is defined as any content that accurately reflects both the \"most extreme content of the final product\" and \"the final product as a whole.\" That is to say, it must depict the \"relative frequency\" of said content. As ESRB President Patricia Vance explains it, the ESRB would not just want a \"tape of one extreme cut to another,\" but rather \"context for the storyline, the missions, the features and functionality of a game, so that the raters really can get exposed to a pretty reasonable sense of what they'd experience playing the game.\" The fact that the content of \"Oblivion\" under investigation was inaccessible during normal play made no difference in the decision. ESRB policy had been \"absolutely clear\" since the Hot Coffee controversy, Patricia Vance told a reporter. Publishers were told that they could not leave unfinished or other pertinent content on a disc. If locked-out content was \"pertinent to a rating,\" ESRB policy stated that it needed to be disclosed, and Bethesda had not done so.\n\nReleased in March 2006 and reported on game news sites as a curiosity in April of the same year, the \"Oblivion Topless Mod\" had been created by a woman calling herself \"Maeyanie.\" Maeyanie created the mod in protest against what she called \"government/society/whatever forcing companies to 'protect our innocent population from seeing those evil dirty things 50% of them possess personally anyways.'\" The gaming website \"Joystiq\" reported on the mod on April 6, 2006: \"Modders are already hard at work on bending the code of the recently released PC version of \"Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion\" to their will. Early success: topless mod FTW!\" \"Kotaku\", another gaming site, reporting on the mod on April 5, 2006, didn't consider the mod anything new and said, \"As usual in the world of computer gaming, one of the very first mods released for a popular game allows you to see the breasts of the main character.\" The content of the mod, wrote commentator Michael Zenke, Editor of \"Slashdot\" games, was fairly tame. Without nudity of the lower torso, and without self-consciousness on the part of the nude NPCs, Zenke wrote, the \"Oblivion Topless Mod\" was \"as erotic as a doctor's visit.\" Pete Hines had discussed the mod with GameSpot staff before the game was re-rated, saying that he did not consider it a concern. \"We can't control and don't condone the actions of anyone who alters the game so that it displays material that may be considered offensive. We haven't received any complaints on the issue from anyone.\"\n\nDuring these investigations ESRB staff also found more blood and gore than the review tape had portrayed:\nWhat Bethesda had originally disclosed to us, as an example: In that section of the game, there is a hanging corpse. What they disclosed to us was a hanging corpse in the dark, pretty far away and without much detail. And yet, when you bring a torch up to the hanging corpse in the actual game, you can see that it's very mutilated with lots of blood and bones. That was a very different depiction, far more intense, far more extreme than what had been disclosed to us.\n\nIn response to the new content, the ESRB hastily conducted a new review of \"Oblivion\", showing to its reviewers the content originally submitted by Bethesda along with the newly disclosed content. The new review resulted in a \"Mature\" rating. The ESRB reported that Bethesda, to correct for the discrepancy, would promptly notify all retailers of the change, issue stickers for retailers and distributors to affix on the product, display the new rating in all following product shipments and marketing, and create a patch for download rendering the topless skin inaccessible. In line with its stated mission of informing consumers regarding the age-suitability of its marked games, the ESRB also released an ESRB Parent Advisory, ensuring that parents would be \"immediately notified\" of the change.\n\nFollowing news of the rating change on May 3, 2006, the Interactive Entertainment Merchants Association (IEMA), an organization of game retailers, which had previously eased the adoption of industry-wide ratings enforcement, issued its own statement, lauding its own retailers for the speed with which they reacted to the rating change. The IEMA release further stated that identification was needed to secure the purchase of Mature-rated games at roughly the same rate as was needed for R-rated film admission. In compliance with the ESRB's further demand that Bethesda request retailers \"to adhere to their respective store policies not to sell the newly rated M (Mature) game to those under the age of 17,\" several retailers had begun to include cash register prompts tied to the game's bar code, instructing the cashier to ask for ID. A report by Gamasutra observed that some retailers—Circuit City specifically—were even pulling the game from their shelves entirely, \"presumably until rating modifications can be made.\"\n\nFollowing the announcement of the rating change, Bethesda issued their own press release. Bethesda announced that it was their organization, not Take-Two Interactive, that had handled the ratings application, and that they stood behind it. Bethesda would not contest the change, and would promptly seek to implement the ESRB's demands, without demanding a product recall. Nonetheless, Bethesda stated that \"Oblivion\" was not typical of Mature rated titles, and did not contain \"central themes of violence\" common to such titles. The response asserted that Bethesda's submission to the ESRB was \"full, accurate, and comprehensive,\" following the forms and requirements published by the ESRB, and that nothing was withheld. Bethesda stressed that there was no nudity in their game without a modification, that the company \"didn't create a game with nudity\" and did not intend for nudity to appear in their game. \"Bethesda can not control tampering with \"Oblivion\" by third parties,\" the press release concluded.\n\nThe British Board of Film Classification (BBFC), the ESRB's counterpart in the United Kingdom, did not change its rating of \"15\". \"Were it the case that the developer themselves had included and failed to disclose certain modifications of content, a recall may be required, but not as a result of a patch that has been placed on the Internet by a third party,\" a BBFC spokesperson told GamesIndustry.biz reporters on May 4, 2006. Any modifications made after release fall outside the powers of the Video Recordings Act.\n\nIn July 2007, the Pan European Game Information (PEGI) announced that it was extending its purview to cover \"games playable online via consoles, PCs and mobiles.\" Websites or online retail games participating in the program would be granted a PEGI Online logo, specifying whether \"the particular game or site is under the control of an operator that cares about protecting young people.\" An article by gaming website Shacknews noted at the time that PEGI's initiative would address the concerns US publishers had with user-created mods for \"San Andreas\" and \"Oblivion\": responsibility for such mods would be placed on the participating publishers.\n\nThe events passed by with little concern from either the public or gaming journalists in particular. Zenke attributed the draw in attention to bigger stories that came later in May. The news, for example, came just a week before E3 2006, the last E3 before the show changed from a grand spectacle to a reserved industry-only affair. The story did not pass completely unnoticed, as certain commentators issued statements regarding the issue in the days following the re-rating. On May 4, 2006, then-California Assemblyman Leland Yee used the rating change to criticize the ESRB. Yee, who had previously called on the ESRB to change their rating of \"\" to \"AO\" (Adults Only 18+), chastised the ESRB for failing parents again, and demonstrating their inability to police themselves. Yee called the ESRB's rating system drastically flawed, and called for further legislation to assist parents and protect children.\n\nGame designer John Romero, lead designer of \"Doom\", posted a statement in his blog criticizing the modders responsible:\nNow what's going to happen? You'll probably start seeing game data files becoming encrypted and the open door on assets getting slammed shut just to keep modders from financially screwing the company they should be helping. And the day a game company's file encryption is hacked to add porn and the case goes to the ESRB for review – that's when we'll see how well game companies are protected from these antics and what the courts will rule. Hopefully it'll be on the developer's side. When the ratings change came, Zenke saw political caution in the move, rather than an intelligent response to new content. Previous scandals had forced the Board's hand, and the ratings change was an act of self-preservation. Zenke, writing in June 2007 for online gaming magazine \"The Escapist\", criticized the public for its failure to respond to the rating change, and emphasized what the change would mean to moddable games. At the core of Zenke's article was concern that a developer or publisher could be punished for content they neither produced nor distributed. Echoing Romero's concerns, Zenke saw the rating change as a threat, not only to modders, but to developers as well. Zenke asked what the ESRB would do in response to \"Game 3.0\" concepts, where community involvement is key. Referring to Sony's \"LittleBigPlanet\", Zenke asked, \"Will Sony provide personnel to review every fan-made level for offensive content? Will the ESRB?\"\n\n\"The Escapist\", thinking the issues of a year past had died down, especially since they hadn't aroused much concern on first coming to light, did not expect the discord that ensued; response on their forums was heated, and the ESRB took \"vigorous exception\" to the piece. Zenke conducted a follow-up interview with ESRB President Patricia Vance, who clarified that the reason for the re-classification, aside from the previously-undisclosed gore, centered around the fact that the texture for nude female breasts was created by Bethesda and already existed in the game's files, and was not created or added after the fact by the modder, similarly to the infamous \"Hot Coffee\" minigame from \"\". \"In the case of Oblivion, the first thing we had heard about was the topless characters, where you can actually opt-in to play throughout the whole game with a topless character. That sounded like a mod to us, and we investigated, and we actually called Bethesda to determine if the art file being used in this mod was theirs, and they did confirm that it was. ... fully rendered. ... It wasn't a Barbie Doll image, it was fully rendered.\" In regard to what is considered by the ESRB for rating a game, Vance stated, \"Our policies are quite clear: it's what's created by the publisher and included on the disc, not what's created or introduced by a mod. The mod may unlock it, the mod may make it accessible, but again, going back to the publisher's burden; putting the accountability on the publisher to fully account for the content that they create and they ship – that's all we care about.\" Vance went on to state that \"ESRB can't rate content that is created by other players. We never have, we never tried, nor will we ever,\" and that the only warning ESRB issues regarding third-party content is \"Game Experience May Change During Online Play.\"\n"}
{"id": "59226005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59226005", "title": "Enemies: The President, Justice and the FBI", "text": "Enemies: The President, Justice and the FBI\n\nEnemies: The President, Justice and the FBI is a four- or five-part documentary television series by Showtime about the history of the relationship between U.S. presidents and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, inspired Tim Weiner's book \"Enemies: A History of the FBI\".\n"}
{"id": "1653788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653788", "title": "Grand Prix Challenge", "text": "Grand Prix Challenge\n\nGrand Prix Challenge is a Formula One racing video game developed by Australian developer Infogrames Melbourne House and published by Infogrames for PlayStation 2. It was released in PAL region (Originally Shown On The Cover) on 21 November 2002, and was officially licensed by Formula One Administration. It was later released on 28 February 2003 in New Zealand and Australia, and then on 4 March 2003 in the North America and more.\n\nThe game features all the drivers, cars and circuits from the 2002 Formula One season. Australian developer Torus Games also supplied the art for the Silverstone (UK), Magny-Cours (France) and Montreal (Canada) racing tracks. Cars in the game are made form around 17,000 polygons.\n\nThere are 4 levels of AI to compete against, variable weather conditions, fuel usage, tire wear, interactive pitstops and various car setups. \n"}
{"id": "32905757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32905757", "title": "Harlem Magicians", "text": "Harlem Magicians\n\nHarlem Magicians was a basketball enterprise founded in 1953 by Lon Varnell through his Varnell Enterprises, that was similar in fashion and activities to the basketball entertainment program the Harlem Globetrotters. The full name of the barnstorming basketball team was The Fabulous Harlem Magicians with the main star attraction of the team being Marques Haynes. Haynes had been a member of the Globetrotters, but had left the team due to a contract dispute to join the Magicians. Other famous players in the team were Goose Tatum, Bob \"Ergie\" Erickson (who once stole the ball from Haynes four times in one game), and Ron Cavenall. Dempsey Hovland, founder of 20th Century Booking Agency and himself owner of several barnstorming teams was recruited to book the Harlem Magicians' games. \n\nIn late 1961, Abe Saperstein, founder and owner of the Harlem Globetrotters opened a lawsuit against Lon Varnell for alleged violation of Harlem Globetrotters' registered trademarks, \"Harlem Globetrotters\" and \"Magicians of Basketball\" by promoting a basketball team known as the \"Harlem Magicians\". In 1964, the parties settled the litigation by entering a consent decree approved by the District Court for the Southern District of New York.\n"}
{"id": "53902974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53902974", "title": "Harpooned", "text": "Harpooned\n\nHarpooned is a computer game by Australia-based Irish developer Conor O'Kane for Windows and Macintosh computers. It is a serious game which questions the Japanese government's claim that their whaling program is scientific in nature. The game's website describes Harpooned as a \"Cetacean Research Simulator, where you play the role of a Japanese scientist performing research on whales around Antarctica\".\n\nHarpooned was first released in January 2008. In 2009 it was updated with new features. The 2009 update included an online leaderboard and the ability to capture protestors. This feature allowed players to recreate the capture of Sea Shepherd protestors Benjamin Potts and Giles Lane who were held on the Japanese whaling vessel the \"Yushin Maru No. 2\" for two days during the 2008 Antarctic campaign.\n\nThe player controls a Japanese whaling vessel. The game opens with the instruction \"Perform research on the whales by shooting them with your explosive harpoons\". After killing a whale the ship collects its meat and the player is rewarded with a higher score for collecting more meat before a timer runs out, triggering a \"scientific combo\". At the end of each stage the player's ship offloads its meat onto a research vessel which then performs research on the meat, producing various whale-meat products such as pet-food and cosmetics. Additional discoveries are then announced highlighting the hypocrisy of killing vast numbers of whales in the name of science, such as \"Juvenine whales are greatly reduced in number. We must kill more pregnant female whales to determine the cause of this reduction\".\n\nHazards that the player must avoid include icebergs, protestors and news helicopters.\n\nThe game does not have an ending, however after about fifteen minutes of play there are no more whales remaining and the player finds that they are sailing through the icebergs alone.\n\nGames For Windows Magazine said Harpooned is \"...a darkly funny, quality shooter with a soundtrack that's both as sad and energetic as the game itself. This is actually the best possible kind of 'activist' game: one that succeeds not despite its message but because of it\".\n\nHarpooned was featured on G4tv's Attack of the Show! as their \"Number one around the net\" on January 24, 2008. Olivia Munn said \"This is the coolest protest ever... Besides getting the message across, it’s actually a fun game\".\n\nIn a segment on serious games, ABC Television's Good Game show featured an interview with Conor O'Kane, the developer of Harpooned, where they said \"Australian serious games aren't just limited to training either, we're also making some of the best social issue games that are taking important messages to the rest of the world.\"\n\nDavid Wildgoose of Kotaku wrote \"Politics and games rarely mix. But when you add biting satire, actual gameplay and loads and loads of blood, you get the genuinely entertaining Harpooned\".\n\nDerek Yu of TIGSource (The Independeng Gaming Source) said \"Harpooned is a socially conscious shoot 'em up that puts you at the helm of a Japanese whaling boat. It was created by artist Conor O’Kane as a criticism of the Japanese practice of “scientific whaling”... The game definitely argues its point well for the most part, and its message is bolstered by the fact that its production is fantastic and the actual gameplay is challenging and fun\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58265284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58265284", "title": "IWA Kawasaki Dream", "text": "IWA Kawasaki Dream\n\nKawasaki Dream was a professional wrestling supercard produced by the Japanese professional wrestling promotion International Wrestling Association (IWA). The event took place on August 20, 1995 at the Kawasaki Stadium in Kawasaki, Kanagawa. The event was a huge success for the promotion drawing a crowd of 28,757 attendants, the largest crowd for an IWA Japan show and it was the most successful and biggest show of the promotion.\n\nThe key highlight of Kawasaki Dream was the 1995 King of the Deathmatch Tournament, an eight-man single elimination tournament, which featured various matches of deathmatch wrestling style. Cactus Jack won the tournament by defeating Terry Funk in the final round. The tournament was critically acclaimed and widely well received by the critics and audiences and the tournament final between Cactus Jack and Terry Funk has been considered by some wrestling journalists to be the greatest deathmatch in the history of professional wrestling.\nIn the first non-televised match, Keisuke Yamada and Keizo Matsuda defeated Yoshihiro Tajiri and Taisuke Tagami when Yamada pinned Tajiri with an inside cradle. The following match was a joshi match, in which Kiyoko Ichiki defeated Emi Motokawa after a \"Tiger Driver\".\nThe first quarter-final match of the King of the Deathmatch tournament was a Barbed Wire Board and Chain match between Tiger Jeet Singh and Mr. Gannosuke. After brawling at ringside for much of the match, the action returned to the ring where Singh applied a \"Cobra Claw\" on Gannosuke onto barbed wire for the win.\n\nThe next Barbed Wire Board and Chain match featured Terry Funk against Leatherface. Leatherface gained early control by hitting a moonsault on Funk. Near the end of the match, Funk hit Leatherface with a chained first for the win.\n\nThe third match in the tournament was a Barbed Wire Baseball Bat and Thumbtacks match between Cactus Jack and Terry Gordy. Jack was dropped numerous times on the thumbtacks until he hit a DDT to Gordy on the thumbtacks for the win.\n\nShoji Nakamaki faced Hiroshi Ono in the next Barbed Wire Baseball Bat and Thumbtacks match. Ono hit two belly-to-back suplexes to Nakamaki on the thumbtacks until Nakamaki countered a third suplex attempt with a powerbomb and then followed with a full nelson facebuster to Ono on the thumbtacks to advance to the semi-final.\nNext, Flying Kid Ichihara defended the WWA International Light Heavyweight Championship against Takashi Okano in the first championship match of the event. Okano countered a hurricanrana attempt by Ichihara into a sunset flip to win the title.\n\nNext, Iceman took on Kamikaze. Near the end of the match, Kamikaze hit a German suplex and attempted a roll-up on Iceman, who reversed it for the win.\n\nThe first semi-final match was a Barbed Wire Board and Glass match pitting Terry Funk against Tiger Jeet Singh. Near the end of the match, Singh raked the eyes of Funk to avoid a spinning toe hold by Funk and spiked his eyes and then Cactus Jack interfered in the match on Singh's behalf as he tried to hit Funk with a saber but Funk avoided it and Jack accidentally knocked out Singh with the saber, allowing Funk to pin him for the win.\n\nThe next semi-final was a Barbed Wire Board and Spike Nail match between Shoji Nakamaki and Cactus Jack. After a back and forth match, Jack hit a double-arm DDT to Nakamaki into the barbed wire board to advance to the final.\n\nLos Cowboys (El Texano and Silver King) defended the World Tag Team Championship against The Headhunters (Headhunter A and Headhunter B). Headhunters threw King into the crowd and double teamed Texano as Headhunter B nailed a superbomb to Texano to win the World Tag Team Championship.\n\nIn the penultimate match, Dan Severn defended the NWA World Heavyweight Championship against Tarzan Goto. Near the end of the match, Goto missed a clothesline on Severn, who hit a German suplex on Goto and applied a rear naked choke to make Goto pass out to the hold and thus retained his title.\n\nThe final round of the tournament was a Barbed Wire Rope, Exploding Barbed Wire Boards and Exploding Ring Time Bomb Deathmatch between Terry Funk and Cactus Jack. Tiger Jeet Singh interfered in the match on Jack's behalf by hitting Funk with a sabre and then the two whipped him into the barbed wire which allowed Jack to gain momentum over Funk. Near the end of the match, Jack hit a diving elbow drop to Funk from the top of a ladder to gain a near-fall and then climbed the ladder to hit a second diving elbow drop but Funk knocked him out and Jack fell into the barbed wire ropes. Funk then collapsed himself into the barbed wire ropes. Jack got up first but Funk could not get up and was unable to answer the referee's ten-count. As a result, Jack won the match and won the 1995 King of the Deathmatch Tournament.\n"}
{"id": "18615340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18615340", "title": "I Need a Girl (Part Two)", "text": "I Need a Girl (Part Two)\n\n\"I Need a Girl (Part Two)\" is a single by American rapper P. Diddy. It was released on May 21, 2002 as the second single from Diddy's and Bad Boy Records' remix album, \"We Invented the Remix\" (2002). It is a sequel to the single \"I Need a Girl (Part One)\", released a few months prior. The song includes guest appearances from Ginuwine, Loon, Mario Winans and Tammy Ruggeri. It was written by Sean Combs, Chauncey Hawkins, Mario Winans, Frankie Romano, Michael Carlos Jones and Adonis Shropshire and produced by Mario Winans and Diddy.\n\n\"Part Two\" peaked at number four on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot Rap Tracks chart. It also charted on the UK Singles Chart at number four. With the song's success on the charts, P. Diddy achieved the rare occurrence of having both parts of the song become big hits.\n\nIt samples P. Diddy's line \"Now the Sun don't shine for ever, but as long as it's here then we might as well shine together\" from his 1997 song \"Victory\" featuring The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes from his debut album \"No Way Out\" (1997), released under the stage name Puff Daddy.\n\nOn February 17, 2012, Mario Winans and German rapper Kay One released a \"Part Three\" to the song. In Germany, \"Part Three\" peaked at number 29.\n\nA female-themed equivalent of the song was released by Dani and Phaedra, titled \"I'm That Girl\".\n\nCD-Maxi\n"}
{"id": "38565812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38565812", "title": "International Cheer Union", "text": "International Cheer Union\n\nThe International Cheer Union (ICU) is the worldwide sports governing body of cheerleading (also known as \"Cheer\") and is provisionally recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as such. ICU was founded in 2004, is also recognized by SportAccord / Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF), and is a member of the Association of IOC Recognized International Sports Federations (ARISF). Its membership includes 116 National Cheer Federations on all continents - reaching over 5 million athletes globally.\n\nOn 6 December 2016, the International Cheer Union (ICU) was provisionally recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) as the world governing body for Cheerleading / the Sport of Cheer. Prior to 2016, on 31 May 2013 - following a positive vote by the SportAccord General Assembly in Saint Petersburg, the International Cheer Union (ICU) became SportAccord’s 109th member, and SportAccord’s 93rd International Sports Federation to join the international sports family. In accordance with article 6.a) of the SportAccord statutes, the ICU is recognized as the world governing body of Cheerleading and the authority on all matters related to this sport.\n\nOn 29 August 2012, Federation Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG), ICU and SportAccord signed a trilateral agreement finalizing terms and conditions under which FIG supports the principle for the admission of the ICU into SportAccord. The ICU is a partner of FISU (Fédération Internationale du Sport Universitaire / International University Sports Federation) , as well as Special Olympics International and is also a signatory and is fully compliant under the code set by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).\n\nThe International Cheer Union is a non-profit international governing entity with the objectives to serve as an advocate for those dedicated to the advancement of Cheerleading, provide balanced input and governance based on the levels of development to all participating members and to train and further educate athletes, coaches and officials. The ICU is the world governing body of Cheerleading and the authority on all matters related it and engages in various activities compliant with the ICU statutes in the promotion of Cheerleading.\n\nICU's statutes are approved by the IOC, SportAccord/GAISF, adopted by the ICU General Assembly, and the ICU is a fully democratic International Sports Federation (\"IF\").\n\nThe Governing Council represents the various geographic areas in which cheerleading exists. The council consists of twelve (12) persons; eight (8) continent/continental regional representatives, one (1) At-Large Continental representative, one (1) USA NGB representative, one (1) At-Large Athlete representative, and one (1) non-voting IASF representative.\n\nCouncil members are recommended by their reflective entities as authorized by the ICU statues, and elected by the ICU General Assembly.\n\nThe ICU General Assembly comprises ICU's 116 National Cheer Federations and National Cheer Provisional Federations. Each National Cheer Federation receives one (1) vote for all General Meeting election and voting processes. The ICU General Assembly last convened Tuesday 24 April 2018 in Orlando, Florida, USA, prior to the 2018 ICU World Cheerleading Championships.\n\nThe Officers of the ICU consist of a President, two (2) Vice Presidents, a Secretary General, and such other officers recommended by the Governing Council and elected by the General Assembly.\n\nThe Executive Committee consists of the following members:\n\nMembership in the ICU is available to all National Cheer Federations within accordance of the ICU statutes, and the ICU shall reasonably assist countries, National Cheer Federations, National Olympic Committees, continental and other regions to create opportunities for participation.\n\nOpen to all National Cheer Federations, only one (1) National Cheer Federation shall be admitted representing each country. Each Member Federation which is in Good Standing, as defined by the ICU Statutes, will have one (1) vote as a member of the General Assembly.\n\nThe ICU is one of the fastest growing International Sports Federations in the world. Founded in 2004, the ICU reached a milestone of 100 member national federations in 2011. Today the ICU currently encompasses 116 member national federations located in Africa, Americas, Asia, Europe and Oceania.\n\nIn over 100 countries, the ICU continues to administer educational and training programs for athletes, coaches and officials to better improve the ongoing growth and development of cheer programs.\n\nThe ICU provides coaches training and certifications on safety, rules, technical training and overall program development strategies. The training includes course work, practical application training and required field work.\n\nThe officials and judges training implements a greater understanding of cheerleading, as well as to promoting fairness and quality in all contests for the betterment of the world's cheerleading athletes.\n\nThe ICU administers championship cheerleading competitions around the world. These events include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3561409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3561409", "title": "Jesse Bogdonoff", "text": "Jesse Bogdonoff\n\nJesse Bogdonoff (born April 1, 1955) is a former Bank of America financial advisor to the government of Tonga and court jester of Taufa'ahau Tupou IV, the king of Tonga. He was embroiled in a financial scandal.\n\nBogdonoff made headlines in 2001 and 2002 after being accused of mismanaging millions of dollars from the nation of Tonga. He had been the Tongan government's financial advisor since 1994, claiming to have made the government millions in the rising stock markets of the booming 1990s. Bogdonoff managed the Tonga Trust Fund after it had been funded by the Tongan government in 1986 in a scheme in which the Tongan government sold passports to frightened Hong Kong nationals who were unnerved by the 1997 expiration of the British lease on Hong Kong from China.\n\nIn 1999 Bogdonoff recommended moving the Tongan portfolio out of the bulging stock market bubble and into a pool of insurance backed investments called viatical contracts managed by the Millennium Asset Management Company. In 2001 he learned that Herchell Hyatt, the owner of Millennium Asset Management Company, had stolen millions of Tonga's money and filed false accounting statements for the Tonga account. Bogdonoff arranged a recovery program for Tonga backed by Lloyd's of London to protect against the losses.\n\nThe Tongan government became paralyzed in an internal political debate led by the Tongan democracy movement in its effort to gain ground by embarrassing the royal family, which dismissed the only senior government ministers who were attempting to implement the recovery plan to save the Tonga Trust Fund. Without the recovery plan the Tonga Trust Fund was effectively wiped out. The government proceeded to sue Bogdonoff and all the parties involved in the transaction for fraud and negligence.\n\nWithout admitting guilt of any fraud, Bogdonoff settled his part of the lawsuit in 2004.\n\nAs of 2006, Bogdonoff has not been to Tonga since 2004 due to his history there. He was not present during King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV's funeral in September 2006. Bogdonoff claimed he was concerned for his safety due to the large number of Tongan citizens who have settled in the United States. He now offers classes in hypnosis and is a clinical therapist using hypnosis to aid in recovery from post traumatic stress. As of 2006, now called Jesse Dean, he is the founder and sole practitioner of the Open Window Institute of Emotional Freedom in Sonoma County, California.\n\nBogdonoff's status as official court jester of Tupou's court made sensational news copy when the financial scandal hit the media in 2001. Tonga was the first royal court to appoint a court jester in modern times, being appointed in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "49046842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49046842", "title": "List of Lebanese films of 2014", "text": "List of Lebanese films of 2014\n\nThe Lebanese film industry produced over twenty feature films in 2014. This article fully lists all non-pornographic films, including short films, that had a release date in that year and which were at least partly made by Lebanon. It does not include films first released in previous years that had release dates in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "48797627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48797627", "title": "List of highest grossing Bangladeshi films", "text": "List of highest grossing Bangladeshi films\n\nThis is a ranking of the highest-grossing Bangladeshi films screened at cinemas in Bangladesh and globally. This is the ranking of the highest-grossing Bangladeshi films films which have released after the Independence of Bangladesh. Films generate income from several revenue streams, including box office sales (admissions), theatrical exhibition, television broadcast rights, and music album sales. There is no official tracking of sales and online sources publishing data are frequently unreliable.\n\nThis is the list of highest-grossing Bangladeshi films listed as per worldwide net figures at the time of their release. These figures are adjusted for ticket prices inflation.\n\n<section begin=\"Bangladesh table\" />\n\n<section end=\"Bangladesh table\" />\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58294523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58294523", "title": "List of years in rock music", "text": "List of years in rock music\n\nThis page lists the individual year in rock music pages. Each year is annotated with a few of the top performing bands, songs, and significant events of each year, with further details at each respective article.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11995253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11995253", "title": "Louis Delluc Prize", "text": "Louis Delluc Prize\n\nThe Louis Delluc Prize () is a French film award presented annually since 1937. The award is bestowed to the Best Film and Best First Film of the year on the second week of each December. The jury is composed of 20 members, consisting of a group of film critics and figures who are culturally significant. Gilles Jacob is the president. The meeting is at \"le Fouquet's\" restaurant in Champs-Élysées.\n\nThe award was created in 1937 in view of the decision of the Académie française to award its Grand Prix du Cinema to films that were created by French filmmakers. Twenty-four film critics including Maurice Bessy and Marcel Idzkowski established the prize to honor Louis Delluc (1890–1924), the first French journalist to specialize in cinema and founder of the ciné-clubs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "74917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74917", "title": "Magical Maestro", "text": "Magical Maestro\n\nMagical Maestro is a 1952 animated short film directed by Tex Avery and produced by Fred Quimby for the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer cartoon studio. It features the Great Poochini (played by Butch Dog), a canine opera singer who spurns a magician. The magician is able to replace Poochini's normal conductor prior to the show through disguise. In 1993, \"Magical Maestro\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nMysto the Magician appeals to a snobbish opera singer, the Great Poochini (a pun on opera composer Giacomo Puccini), to let him perform an opening act at the show that night. Mysto's tricks primarily come from his magic wand, which can summon flowers and rabbits. After Mysto dances and asks him if he gets the job, Poochini emphatically says \"NO!\" as he kicks Mysto out the door into the alley.\n\nWhile on the ground, upsetter Mysto plays with his magic wand, but soon realizes he can pass it off as a conductor's baton, being further inspired by seeing himself in place of the conductor in a promotional poster outside the door and plans to get revenge on Poochini. Later, as the performance is starting he freezes the conductor, steals his tuxedo, nose and hair, then takes his place in front of the orchestra to conduct the Great Poochini, who is unaware of the imposter in front of him.\n\nDuring the performance, in which Poochini (performed by the Colombian baritone Carlos Julio Ramírez) sings \"Largo al factotum\" from Gioacchino Rossini's \"The Barber of Seville\", Mysto unleashes a variety of tricks with his wand. He begins tamely by summoning rabbits and flowers, then turning Poochini into a ballet dancer, Indian, tennis player, prisoner rock-breaker and football player. Mysto's revenge gets more brutal as he throws a cymbal on Poochini's head, turning him Chinese (see below), then transforming him into a country singer and sings, Oh My Darling, Clementine. After levitating Poochini to the ceiling and slamming him down to the stage, Mysto turns him into a square dance caller. Poochini actually continues his performance for a good 20 seconds after this without interruption, except for the \"hair gag\". Poochini is then transformed into a Shirley Temple–esque child (who sings \"A-Tisket, A-Tasket\" before the balloon blows up and pops), then a Carmen Miranda–type singer (with two rabbits accompanying him on guitar) after an irritated audience member hurls an armload of fruit onto Poochini's head where it piles up like Miranda's headdress. The same guy later sprays black ink on Poochini turning him into Bill Kenny from the Ink Spots, then he throws an anvil on him, crushing him into a shorter height and deepening his voice as well. After a rabbit hoses off Poochini's face and another rabbit works his arm like an automobile jack to get him back up to full height, the fun continues as he is transformed into a Hawaiian singer with two rabbits for harmony. Reaching the end of the number, Mysto's plan is finally revealed to Poochini as his wig falls off. Mysto quickly puts the wig back on, but it's too late. Now set for revenge of his own, Poochini furiously grabs the hairpiece and puts it on while Mysto tries to flee, but Poochini, having also grabbed the magic wand, stops the magician by using the wand on him as placing Mysto to the stage and unleashes the same gimmicks on the hapless magician at high speed. A red curtain with the words \"The End\" then falls on the magician and the rabbits (at the end of the Hawaiian singer shtick) thus ending the cartoon.\n\nThe concept of cartoons with insinuating situations is hardly new—Tex Avery especially featured a few quick jokes of this nature in his cartoons. \"Magical Maestro\", for example, shows Poochini with a male and female rabbit on each arm. He lowers his arms behind his back and when he raises them again, he now has an additional dozen baby rabbits on them, six on each arm.\n\nThis cartoon features a gimmick only seen in Tex Avery films, the \"hair gag\". Because cartoons were shown originally in movie theatres, the film strip, if loaded incorrectly, would rub against the gate mechanism, shaving off tiny \"hairs\" of celluloid. These hairs would get caught in the 'gate' of the projector. Sometimes it would skitter across the projection light, resulting in a gigantic hair appearing on the movie screen. In this cartoon, the opera singer pauses mid-song to pluck the offending hair from the film and tosses it aside, one of Avery's many ways of his characters breaking the fourth wall. It wasn't the first time Avery used this gag. It was also used in \"Aviation Vacation\" (1941).\n\nThe role of Poochini is portrayed by Butch the Irish dog, a frequent star of Avery's cartoons of that era (often alongside Droopy).\n\nSince its debut on television, \"Magical Maestro\" has frequently been shown with two gags missing, that were edited out due to their reliance on racial stereotypes.\n\n\n\"Magical Maestro\" was broadcast throughout the 1970s and 1980s in various formats, depending on censoring rules at the particular television station. New York–based WPIX, for instance, edited out the audience member segment, but left the Chinese stereotype in place. Chicago-based WFLD (now FOX-32) as well as Atlanta-based WTBS (the future parent of Cartoon Network), aired the film uncut. The current edited version that has aired on Cartoon Network since the late 1990s is missing both gags.\n\nThe \"hair gag\" would later be used by English comedian Benny Hill in the closing chase sequence of his April 25, 1984 show. As he is being chased by medical staff and an ambulance in and around a hospital area, he notices a hair moving around the bottom right corner of the screen, and at a certain point stops his pursuers long enough for him to pluck the hair out before the chase resumes.\n\n\"Tom and Jerry Tales\" episode \"Way-Off Broadway\" features a gag similar to Poochini's transformations, in that Tom is forced to adapt to various pieces music when Jerry changes them on a radio.\n"}
{"id": "3832072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832072", "title": "Margaret Anglin", "text": "Margaret Anglin\n\nMary Margaret Warren Anglin (April 3, 1876 – January 7, 1958) was a Canadian-born Broadway actress, director and producer. Encyclopædia Britannica calls \"one of the most brilliant actresses of her day.\" \n\nMargaret Anglin was born Mary Warren Anglin in Ottawa, Ontario, the youngest of nine children of newspaper editor and politician Timothy Warren Anglin (1822–1896) by his second wife, Miss Ellen MacTavish. At the time of her birth in Ottawa, April 3, 1876, he was the Speaker of the House of Commons of Canada. Anglin remembers being held by Oscar Wilde, a guest of her father. Her older brother, Francis Alexander Anglin (1865–1933) served as Chief Justice of Canada from 1924 to 1933.\n\nShe was educated at Loretto Abbey, Toronto, and at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, Montreal. She graduated from the Empire School of Dramatic Acting, New York, in 1894, where she studied under Nelson Wheatcroft. Her acting skills brought the attention of theatre impresario Charles Frohman who provided her with the opportunity to make her professional stage debut in 1894 in the Bronson Howard production of \"\"Shenandoah\".\"\n\nAn injury sustained while out riding laid her up for some months. In 1896 she became leading lady with James O'Neill, and toured with him in the United States and Canada. Her first professional appearance occurred as Madeline West in Shenandoah She subsequently played with the Sothern Company, and scored a great success as Lady Ursula. In 1896 she played Ophelia opposite James O'Neill. She went on to make her first Broadway theatre appearance in the 1898 production of \"Lord Chumley\" then achieved considerable fame in 1898 on tour portraying \"Roxane\" in the Edmond Rostand play, \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" starring Richard Mansfield. She became leading lady with Charles Frohman, in California, in 1899. She performed with the Empire Theatre Company, New York.\n\nBy 1905 she had gained wide recognition for her acting skills and in December of that year the \"New York Times\" reported that, following a benefit matinee for the Jewish sufferers in Russia, the doyenne of the stage Sarah Bernhardt asked Anglin to perform with her in the Maurice Maeterlinck play \"Pelléas et Mélisande\". The blessing by the great Bernhardt sealed Margaret Anglin's reputation as the new star of American theatre.\nAnglin became known for her \"striking capacity to move effectively and swiftly through the often contradictory emotions felt by heroines\" and her ability \"to wring tears from the audience while she did so. At the same time Anglin was also praised for avoiding excessive sentimentality\" (Meyers 28). Anglin's compelling performances and unique acting style, alongside her Greek productions would become her most noteworthy contributions to the American stage.\n\nMargaret Anglin was 33 when she moved back to America after her grand tour in Australia. Upon her arrival in the summer of 1909, she began \"taking her first steps towards the production of Greek tragedy\" (Le Vay 121), which started with an \"intensive study of… Greek plays\" (Le Vay 121) and is \"generally considered her most noteworthy contribution to the life of the American theatre\" (Le Vay 121). Anglin's first role in a Greek tragedy was as Antigone in a single performance at the Hearst Theatre at U.C. Berkeley. Although Anglin had virtually no prior experience performing in Greek tragedies or classic verse plays of any kind, she was enticed by William Dallam Armes invitation, which stated that this opportunity would provide \"ample opportunity for the display of your great ability as an emotional actress\" (Meyers 30). She immediately accepted the offer, and would embrace all areas of the project's production. On her own shoulders Anglin loaded the multiple responsibilities of directing, staging, selecting a chorus (Greek, not musical comedy), arranging and rearranging 'business', choosing costumes, supervising electricians, actors, musicians, and stage hands, up to the last detail relating to the performance\" (Young 36); leaving only the publicity and advertisement to her husband who acted as her business manager. Anglin believed that \"the classical play is the highest expression for the player\" (Meyers 28) and her passion for the form fueled her professionalism and attention to detail. From 1910 to 1928, she would go on to produce, under her own management, Antigone, Electra, Iphigenia in Aulis, and Medea at the Greek Theatre at Berkeley, Carnegie Hall, and the Metropolitan Opera House. Each revival was met with high critical acclaim and for Anglin, the \"problem was not how to attract the public, but how to provide accommodations for the people who besieged the box office\" (Meyers 39). \nAnglin's productions proved not only to be impressive professional feats, but her artistic decisions to pair the Greek classics with the modern conventions of the time were incredibly innovative. Anglin did \"not believe in ignoring the conventions of the stage today, simply because such conventions did not exist in the time of Sophocles, and Euripides\" (Meyers 31). Although her productions kept the classic Greek tradition of using virtually no scenery, allowing the costumes to provide much of the spectacle, she did not attempt to replicate the costumes or mask that would have been worn by the original Greek actors. She implemented modern realistic makeup to replace masks, cast women to play the female roles, used modern music, and set the plays at night using artificial light instead of using daylight. Anglin \"was always intent on humanizing the ancient works\" for her modern audiences so that they \"understood that they dealt with universal and lasting concerns\" (Meyers 44) and her choices reflect this ambition.\n\nInspired by reading the classics and a love for the Greek tragedies that centered on women, Margaret Anglin became the dominant dramatic actress of the first two decades of the 20th Century in Greek tragedies and acclaimed for her performances in Shakespearean plays, acting and producing \"The Taming of the Shrew\", \" As You Like It\", and \"Twelfth Night\" in repertory at Broadway's Hudson Theatre in 1914.\n\nIn 1911, Margaret Anglin became a U.S. citizen through her marriage to fellow actor Howard Hull. In 1929, after her husband had not been cast in a Broadway production for twenty years, she insisted that producers give him a role in her plays. Balked at by the producers, she walked out on a production and did not return to the New York stage until 1936 in what would be her final Broadway appearance. Like many Broadway luminaries at the beginning of the century Anglin refused to sacrifice her theatrical art by appearing in motion pictures.\n\nAnglin starred in the original version of the radio program \"Orphans of Divorce\" when it was \"a once-weekly night-time serial.\"\n\nMargaret Anglin returned to live in Toronto in 1953. She died on January 7, 1958. She bore no children. She was interred there in the Anglin family plot at Mount Hope Catholic Cemetery.\n\nMyers, Norman J. \"Margaret Anglin's Greek Revivals, 1910-1928.\" Theatre Studies 34 (1989):Web. 21 Jan. 2017.\n\nYoung, William C. \"Margaret Anglin.\" Famous Actors and Actresses on the American Stage. Vol. 1. New York: R.R. Bowker, 1975. 34-38. Print.\n\nLe Vay, John. Margaret Anglin, A Stage Life. Simon & Pierre, 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38591219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38591219", "title": "Marie Watson-Blake", "text": "Marie Watson-Blake\n\nMarie Watson-Blake (6 August 1927 - 21 April 1993) was a business leader in the tourism and travel industries in Queensland, Australia.\n\nShe founded Jetset Travel, and ran its Queensland operation. She had a keen interest in philanthropy and the arts, and was also\nknown as \"the woman who led women into Queensland's boardrooms\".\n\nAt the time of her death, she was the deputy chairman of the Queensland Tourist and Travel Corporation.\n\nThe Marie Watson-Blake Awards were named in her honour, for people and companies making an outstanding contribution to Queensland tourism.\n\nDue to her intensive work in business and government, Watson-Blake was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II and the Labor government of Australia.\n"}
{"id": "40389567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40389567", "title": "Min Lu", "text": "Min Lu\n\nMin Lu (; 18 May 1954 – 14 August 2013) was a Burmese writer. His real name was Nyan Paw (). He was born in Yangon in 1954, the fourth and youngest son of Thadu, a famous film director and writer, and Khin Nyo, a school headmistress. His brothers, Thu Maung and Maung Wunna, were also well known writers.\n\nHe studied philosophy at Yangon University from 1972 to 1977. His first novelette, \"Pan Kyaung\" (Flower School), was published in 1977. He went on to publish nearly 50 books in his career. He became a screenwriter in 1992. Several of his books were converted into movies and he wrote scripts for most of them.\n\nHe was arrested twice for his involvement in popular movements against government. He was arrested the first time for participating in the U Thant incident in 1974. He was sentenced for seven years but released after seven months because he was a student at that time. He was again sentenced for seven year in 1989 for his poem, \"Bartway Phyit Kone Kya Pi Lae\" () but was released after three years. Over one thousand people were arrested by then military government for publishing and distributing the poem.\n\nHe died of lung cancer in Yangon on 14 August 2013. He was survived by his wife, San San Aung, a university librarian, and two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "27066693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27066693", "title": "Misattribution theory of humor", "text": "Misattribution theory of humor\n\nMisattribution is one of many theories of humor that describes an audience's inability to identify exactly why they find a joke to be funny. The formal theory is attributed to Zillmann & Bryant (1980) in their article, \"Misattribution Theory of Tendentious Humor\", published in \"Journal of Experimental Social Psychology\". They derived the critical concepts of the theory from Sigmund Freud's \"Wit and Its Relation to the Unconscious\", originally published in 1905. Freud declared people incapable of knowing exactly what it is they find amusing due to the complex nature of their conscious and subconscious minds. Jokes are crafted by comedians who have experience with causing laughter but who may themselves be blind to the actual cause of humor.\n\nFreud made a key distinction between tendentious and non-tendentious humor. Tendentious humor involves a \"victim\", someone at whose expense we laugh. Non-tendentious humor does not require a victim. This innocuous humor typically depends on wordplay, and Freud believed it has only modest power to evoke amusement. Tendentious humor, then, is the only kind that can evoke big laughs.\nHowever, Freud believed a mixture of both tendentious and non-tendentious humor is required to keep the tendentious humor from becoming too offensive or demeaning to its victim. The innocent jokework of the innocuous humor would mask the otherwise hostile joke and therefore \"bribe\" our senses, allowing us to laugh at what would otherwise be socially unacceptable. Therefore, we often think we are laughing at innocuous jokes, but what really makes them funny is their socially unacceptable nature hidden below the surface.\n\nTo further examine Freud's concepts, media scholars Dolf Zillmann & Jennings Bryant set up an experimental situation to combine and/or separate tendentious and non-tendentious humor. Their findings confirmed the expectations that amusement was highest when all of the ingredients of good comedy were present. In conjunction with disposition theory of mirth (Zillmann & Cantor, 1976), audiences predictably enjoyed witnessing the demise of a disliked character. However, the mere presence of the innocuous humor cue more than doubled the amusement in response to the observed misfortune.\nThe applications to humor in film, television, and other media are quite apparent. However, very little research has been conducted to follow up Zillmann & Bryant's original experiment.\n\nSitcom and comedy films are filled with humor based on misattribution. For example, characters in a working-class family may banter back and forth about paying bills or finding a more respected or higher-paying job. The delivery of dialog may come across as funny for an audience who believes the humor comes from the antagonistic relationship between the two characters. But the real hostile nature of the joke involves class and economic issues that are otherwise not funny.\nSimilar analysis can be applied to issues involving racial discrimination, sexual deviancy, drug abuse, and other controversial issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12678845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12678845", "title": "Mobmov", "text": "Mobmov\n\nMobile Movie (aka \"MobMov\") is a worldwide network of guerrilla drive-ins using car-powered video projectors and FM transmitters. The MobMov represents over 150 independent guerrilla drive-ins, from United States to France, India, and Australia.\n\nShows are free and are announced via mailing list and SMS. Patrons drive to the listed location, tune their radios, and watch a movie drive-in style. The coordinator uses a car or small generator to power the projector and FM transmitter.\n\nThe MobMov was started by Bryan Kennedy in May, 2005. Kennedy's San Francisco-area MobMov has been defunct since late 2009 but other variations on the concept exist in the San Francisco Bay Area, and throughout the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222066", "title": "Most-wanted Iraqi playing cards", "text": "Most-wanted Iraqi playing cards\n\nDuring the 2003 invasion of Iraq by a United States-led coalition, the U.S. military developed a set of playing cards to help troops identify the most-wanted members of President Saddam Hussein's government, mostly high-ranking members of the Iraqi Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party or members of the Revolutionary Command Council. The cards were officially named the \"personality identification playing cards\". As of 2018, all but 6 of the 52 most wanted have been captured. \n\nEach card contains the wanted person's address and, if available, the job performed by that individual. The highest-ranking cards, starting with the aces and kings, were used for the people at the top of the most-wanted list. The ace of spades is Saddam Hussein, the aces of clubs and hearts are his sons Qusay and Uday respectively, and the ace of diamonds is Saddam's presidential secretary Abid Hamid Mahmud al-Tikriti. This strict correspondence to the order of the most-wanted list was not carried through the entire deck, but some time later in 2003, the list itself was renumbered to conform (almost) to the deck of cards. The card backs feature a green military camouflage pattern.\n\nAccording to US Navy Lieutenant commander Jim Brooks, a spokesman for the Defense Intelligence Agency, such playing cards have been used as far back as the US Civil War and again in World War II—Army Air Corps decks printed with the silhouettes of German and Japanese fighter aircraft fetch hundreds of dollars today—and in the Korean War. Troops often play cards to pass the time, and seeing the names, faces and titles of the wanted Iraqis during their games will help soldiers and Marines in case they run into the wanted individuals in the field, Brooks said.\n\nThe list of \"Most Wanted\" was the result of a multi-intelligence agency collaboration which included the Defense Intelligence Agency, Central Command, and representatives from all US Service Branch Intelligence entities. The \"Most Wanted\" names were then assigned to their respective cards by five US Army soldiers, 2LT Hans Mumm, SSG Shawn Mahoney, SGT Andrei Salter, SGT Scott Boehmler, and SPC Joseph Barrios, who were assigned to the Defense Intelligence Agency. The pictures used on the cards came from a number of intelligence agencies, but most were derived from \"open sources\". The deck of cards was first announced publicly in Iraq on 11 April 2003, in a press conference by Army Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks, deputy director of operations at U.S. Central Command. On that same evening Max Hodges, a Houston-based entrepreneur, found and downloaded a high-resolution artwork file for the deck from a Defense Department web server. Discovering the following day that the file had vanished from the military web server he became the first eBay seller to offer the artwork file, in PDF, which could be used to reproduce the deck. He quickly contracted Gemaco Playing Card Company to print 1,000 decks for about $4,000 and started selling both the decks, in advance of receiving them from the printer, on eBay, Amazon.com and his own web site. When some of his early auctions for a $4 deck of cards quickly rose to over $120, it did not take long for other eBayers to jump on the bandwagon and print or order decks of their own to sell. In just a few days hundreds of sellers materialized and the price dropped to just a few dollars per deck.\n\nTexas-based Liberty Playing Card Co. received an order to manufacture the cards for the U.S. Embassy in Kuwait and by claiming to be \"the authorized government contractor\" quickly became another popular domestic supplier for the commercial market. The U.S. military inadvertently included in the jokers the trademarked Hoyle joker owned by the United States Playing Card Company of Cincinnati, Ohio. Although The U.S. Playing Card company does not object to the government's use of the image, they do object to other companies using the trademarked image. Thus, in some sense, the U.S. military inadvertently granted The U.S. Playing Card Company exclusive rights to manufacture the authentic decks, if the trademarked images on the jokers are considered a requirement for being authentic.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are also two jokers: one lists Arab titles, the other Iraqi military ranks. There are no cards for most-wanted No. 45 (was #26), Nayif Shindakh Thamir, No. 53 (was #34 – Killed in 2003 or probably still fugitive) Husayn al-Awadi, or No. 54 (was #35) Khamis Sirhan al-Muhammad, captured on 11 January 2004. Al-Muhammad was held for six years before being released on 30 July 2010. He has since fled to Syria where most of the other 6 uncaptured members of the deck of cards are reported to be hiding.\n\nThe 13 June 2003 edition of the BBC One satirical news quiz, \"Have I Got News for You\", featured a set of the playing cards in one round, spoofing guest host Bruce Forsyth's 1980s game show \"Play Your Cards Right\" (the British version of the American series \"Card Sharks\"). The two teams played a version of the latter's main game, retitled \"Play Your Iraqi Cards Right\" (although during the segment it was revealed that the writers' first choice had been \"Play Your Kurds Right\"), with the same rules (and audience participation). Much of the humour of the round came from the reactions of the two team captains: while Paul Merton was clearly familiar with the game and greatly enjoyed it, his opponent, Ian Hislop, admitted he'd never seen \"Play Your Cards Right\" and appeared mystified by the game's rules and etiquette (when at one point Merton and the crowd shouted the traditional cry of \"lower, lower,\" to predict the next card in the hidden sequence, Hislop commented, \"I'm not sure this programme could get much lower!\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27626364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27626364", "title": "NWA Shockwave Internet Championship", "text": "NWA Shockwave Internet Championship\n\nThe NWA Shockwave Internet Championship was a professional wrestling Internet/television championship in NWA Shockwave (NWA-SW) and the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA). It was the original title of the CyberSpace Wrestling Federation promotion and was later recognized by the NWA as a regional title. It was introduced as the CSWF Internet Championship on October 19, 2002. It was established as an NWA heavyweight championship in 2005 following the promotion's admission into the NWA. The promotion became NWA: Cyberspace, and later NWA Shockwave, with the title remaining active until the promotion's close in 2007.\n\nThe inaugural champion was Billy Firehawk, who won a 15-man Rumble Royale on October 19, 2002 to become the first CSWF Heavyweight Champion. There were 8 officially recognized champions, however only two men, Josh Daniels and Papadon, held the belt more than once. Daniels also held the record as the longest reigning champion at 357 days. Many then current wrestlers from Total Non-Stop Action challenged for the title while competing in the promotion; Bobby Roode held the championship in for several months in 2006. Its last champion, Papadon, held both the Internet and Heavyweight titles during the final months of its existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25473294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25473294", "title": "Natural Born Killers copycat crimes", "text": "Natural Born Killers copycat crimes\n\nSince the 1994 film Natural Born Killers was released, there have been several copycat crimes committed by fans of the film, mostly by high school students within the age range of 15-18. Though most of the incidents below are thought to have occurred as a result of the film, the actual reasons for these acts being committed remain unknown. \n\nOn March 5, 1995, Sarah Edmondson (18) and her boyfriend Benjamin James Darras (18) spent a night alone together at her family's cabin in Muskogee, Oklahoma, watching \"Natural Born Killers\". Two days later, they left the cabin and packed Edmondson's Nissan Maxima with blankets and a .38-caliber revolver. They allegedly left Muskogee to attend a Grateful Dead concert in Memphis, Tennessee. On March 7, they arrived in Hernando, Mississippi, when Darras killed cotton-mill manager William Savage by shooting him twice in the head at point blank range. Darras then took a piece of blood-stained fabric from Savage to keep as a token. Later, with Edmondson, he spoke openly about killing Savage. They then travelled to Ponchatoula, Louisiana, where Edmondson shot Patsy Byers, a convenience store cashier. Byers survived the attack, being rendered quadriplegic. Savage had been a friend of best-selling author John Grisham, who publicly accused Oliver Stone of being irresponsible in making the film, claiming that filmmakers should be held accountable for their work when it incites viewers to commit violent acts.\n\nIn July 1995, Byers took legal actions against Edmondson and Darras, however in March 1996, she amended her lawsuit to include Stone and the Time Warner company. With the advice of Grisham, Byers used a \"product liability\" claim, stating that the filmmakers \"knew, or should have known that the film would cause and inspire people [...] to commit crimes such as the shooting of Patsy Ann Byers.\" Grisham himself stated in an article called \"Unnatural Killers\" in the April 1996 edition of the \"Oxford American\" magazine, \"The last hope of imposing some sense on Hollywood will come through another great American tradition, the lawsuit. A case can be made that there exists a direct causal link between \"Natural Born Killers\" and the death of Bill Savage. It will take only one large verdict against the likes of Oliver Stone, and then the party will be over.\" On January 23, 1997, on the grounds that filmmakers and production companies are protected by the First Amendment, the case was dismissed, but Byers immediately appealed the decision, and on May 15, 1998, the Intermediate Louisiana Court of Appeals overturned that decision, claiming that Byers did indeed have a valid case against the filmmakers (However, Byers herself died of cancer in late 1997). However, on March 12, 2001, judge Robert Morrison dismissed the case on the grounds that there was no evidence that either Time Warner or Stone intended to incite violence.\n\nIn June 2002, the Louisiana Court of Appeal turned down an appeal from Byers' attorneys, and the suit was officially closed.\n\nSarah Edmondson has since been released on parole in Oklahoma only serving less than twelve years on a thirty-year sentence. Her parole will end in 2025.\n\nBenjamin Darras continues to serve his sentence at the Mississippi State Prison at Parchmen, MS.\n\nThe case was featured in an episode of the Oxygen Network true crime series \"\", which originally aired on March 24, 2013.\n\nThis case was featured in an episode of Reelz series \"CopyCat Killers\" that originally aired March 5, 2016\n\nOn December 1, 1997, in West Paducah, Kentucky, 14-year-old Michael Carneal went to school carrying four .22 rifles, 2 .30-30 Winchester rifles and a Ruger .22 handgun. Upon arriving at the school, he inserted a pair of earplugs and opened fire with the handgun at a prayer meeting, killing three of his classmates and wounding five others. After he was finished shooting, Carneal calmly dropped the gun and surrendered to the school principal. Carneal was charged with murder and attempted murder and initially sentenced to three life sentences for murder plus 150 years for five counts of attempted murder. Following appeal, this was altered to life in prison with no possibility of parole. In April 1999, Jack Thompson, attorney for the parents of the murdered children filed a $33 million lawsuit against Time Warner, Polygram Film, Palm Pictures, Island Pictures, New Line Cinema, Atari, Nintendo and Sony Computer Entertainment. Specifically mentioned were \"Natural Born Killers\" and the 1995 film \"The Basketball Diaries\", as well as the video games \"Doom\", \"Redneck Rampage\", \"Nightmare Creatures\", \"Resident Evil\", and \"Mortal Kombat\". Thompson argued that the films and games had encouraged Carneal to act the way he did, and that \"Doom\" had provided him with excellent target practice. In July 2001 the US Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's dismissal of the case.\n\nOn April 20, 1999, students Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold murdered twelve students and one teacher at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado. The massacre ended with both perpetrators committing suicide. It has been confirmed that both Harris and Klebold were fans of \"Natural Born Killers\". Prior to the massacre, they had used the initials 'NBK' as their code. In a journal entry dated, April 10, 1998, Harris wrote \"\"When I go NBK and people say things like \"Oh, it was so tragic,\" or \"oh he is crazy!\" or \"It was so bloody\", just because your mommy and daddy told you blood and violence is bad, you think it's a fucking law of nature? Wrong, only science and math are true, everything, and I mean every fucking thing else is Man made. Before I leave this worthless place, I will kill whoever I deem unfit for anything at all, especially life\".\" Harris also referred to April 20 as \"\"the holy April morning of NBK\", and in an undated journal entry, Klebold (who was severely depressed) wrote \"I'm stuck in humanity. Maybe going NBK w. Eric is the way to break free\"\".\n\nDuring one of the \"Basement Tapes\" found in Harris and Klebold's homes, the perpetrators mention how Hollywood will want to adapt their life story, and they debate on whether or not Steven Spielberg or Quentin Tarantino (who conceived the story for \"Natural Born Killers\") are appropriate choices to direct the proposed film. In 2003 the Columbine High School massacre was dramatized on \"Zero Day (film)\", directed by Ben Coccio, with the killers being portrayed by Andre Keuck and Cal Robertson.\n\nOn April 23, 2006, Jeremy Allan Steinke (23) and his 12-year-old girlfriend Jasmine Richardson murdered her parents, Marc and Debra Richardson, as well as her 8-year-old brother, Jacob, in Medicine Hat, Alberta. Steinke and Richardson were arrested on April 24 in Leader, Saskatchewan, and were charged with three counts of first-degree murder. According to friends of the daughter, her parents had punished her for dating Steinke, due to the age disparity, and forbade her from visiting him. Shortly after her arrest, Steinke proposed marriage to her, which she accepted.\n\nOn July 9, 2007, Richardson was found guilty of three counts of first-degree murder and was sentenced to ten years in prison, which is the maximum penalty for an individual under 14 years of age. On December 5, 2008, Steinke was also found guilty of three counts of first-degree murder, and on December 15, he was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility for parole for 25 years. The \"Natural Born Killers\" connection was that Steinke had allegedly watched the film the night before the incident. He also spoke to friends of \"going Natural Born Killer on her [Richardson daughter] family\".\n\nOn February 2, 1996, in Moses Lake, Washington, 14-year-old Barry Loukaitis entered his algebra classroom dressed as a Wild West-style gunslinger and was wearing a black duster. He was armed with a .30–30 caliber hunting rifle and two handguns (.357 caliber revolver and .25 caliber semiautomatic pistol) that belonged to his father, and was carrying approximately 78 rounds of ammunition. He opened fire at students, killing two, Arnold Fritz and Manuel Vela, Jr., both fourteen. Another student, 13-year-old Natalie Hintz, sustained critical gunshot wounds to the right arm and abdomen, and was airlifted to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. Loukaitis then fatally shot his algebra teacher Leona Caires in the chest. Teacher and coach Jon Lane entered the classroom upon hearing the gunshots to find Loukaitis holding his classmates hostage. He planned to use one hostage so he could safely exit the school. Lane volunteered as the hostage, and Loukaitis kept him at gunpoint with his rifle. Lane then grabbed the weapon from Loukaitis and wrestled him to the ground, later assisting in the evacuation of students. He kept Loukaitis subdued until police arrived at the scene.\n\nLoukaitis was said to be obsessed with violent books and movies, including \"Natural Born Killers\". He rented the movie seven times and would often quote it to friends.\n\nOn September 13, 2006, at Dawson College, a CEGEP in Westmount near downtown Montreal, Quebec, Canada, Kimveer Gill began shooting outside the de Maisonneuve Boulevard entrance to the school, and moved towards the atrium by the cafeteria on the main floor. One victim died at the scene, while another 19 were injured, eight of whom were listed in critical condition with six requiring surgery. The shooter later committed suicide by shooting himself in the head, after being shot in the arm by police. He listed the movie as one of his favorites on his blog.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22688017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22688017", "title": "NewNowNext Awards", "text": "NewNowNext Awards\n\nThe NewNowNext-Awards is an American annual entertainment awards show, presented by the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender-themed channel Logo. Launched in 2008, awards are presented both for LGBT-specific and general interest achievements in entertainment and pop culture. \n\nThe nominees were announced by Cazwell and Amanda Lepore. Hosts were Candis Cayne and Colman Domingo. Music acts were The Cliks, Dangerous Muse, Cyndi Lauper, and Lady Gaga (making her TV debut).\n\nProduction Co: Pro - Active Entertainment Group\n\n\nThe 2009 awards show was hosted by RuPaul on May 21 at the Hiro Ballroom at the Maritime Hotel in NYC. The show aired on LOGO on June 13. The \"Always Next, Forever Now Award\" was presented to Britney Spears. Performers included Morningwood, Storm Lee, The Fire and Reason, and The Paradiso Girls.\n\n\nThe 2010 NewNowNext Awards were held in Los Angeles and premiered on June 17, 2010 on Logo. Niecy Nash and Cheyenne Jackson co-hosted the awards show.\n\n\nThe 2011 NewNowNext Awards were presented on April 7, 2011 and were hosted by James Van Der Beek. The awards telecast premiered on Logo on April 11.\n\nWinners designated in bold\n\nBrink of Fame Actor: \n\n\nTV You Betta Watch\n\nBest New Indulgence\n\nMost Addictive Reality Star\n\n'Cause You're Hot\n\nNext Must-See Movie\n\nBrink of Fame Music Artist\n\nAlways Next, Forever Now Award: Lady Gaga\n\nNext Mega Star\n\nBrink-of-Fame: Music Artist\n\nMost Addictive Reality Star\n\nCause You're Hot \n\nBeyond Style Award\n\nBest New Indulgence\n\nNext Must-See Movie\n\nTV You Betta Watch\n\nSuperfan Site Award\n\nNext Mega-Star\n\n\nNext Must-See Movie\n\n\nTV You Betta Watch\n\n\nMost Addictive Reality Star\n\n\nBest New Indulgence\n\n\nBeyond Style\n\n\nCause You’re Hot\n\n\nSuperfan Site\n\n\nThat's My Jam\n\n\nCoolest Cameo\n\n\nHost with the Most\n\n\nForeign Import of the Year\n\n\nHottest, Sexiest Ink\n\n\nBest New Do\n\nMost Innovative Charity of the Year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55521939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55521939", "title": "PWP Catch Division Championship", "text": "PWP Catch Division Championship\n\nThe PWP Catch Division Championship is a professional wrestling championship owned by Pro Wrestling Pride. It was the first championship incorporated by Pro Wrestling Pride, and the company's second-tier championship behind the PWP Heavyweight Championship. Despite the championship being the secondary championship for the promotion, it has been known to main-event shows above the heavyweight championship. \n\nThe championship was established on the first Pro Wrestling Pride show under the company's banner on 13 May 2012, where Tyler Hawke defeated Wales' 'Wild Boar' Mike Hitchman. The design of the championship is that of a trophy rather than a traditional championship belt. Despite the championship being predominately male, it has been won by a female. Bobbi Tyler won the championship for a single day in January 2017.\n\nRather than a midcard title based on a weight (Such as All Japan Pro Wrestling's Junior Heavyweight Championship, or World Championship Wrestling's Cruiserweight championship), and is more in line with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's X-Division Championship, which stated the division was 'not about weight limits, it's about no limits!\" The catch division, was likely originally designed as a showcase of catch wrestling, rather than high-flying wrestling, with well known grapplers Johnny Kidd and Doug Williams winning the title.\n\nHowever, the style has changed over the duration of the belt's life, with the aforementioned catch style, with a mix of luchador, Puroresu and even more 'extreme styles'. This is reflected in the match types contested for this championship, with \"catch as catch can\" wrestling style (See Mountevans Rules), Luchas de Apuestas and even TLC matches. The division's prize was a catch division trophy, and not a traditional belt. \n\nThe full history of the championship is listed below. As the championship is currently on hiatus; the current championship reign of Tyler Hawke is being accumulated; however, it may not be accurate. As of 03 2018. \n\nThe total list of combined championship days held. As of 03 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17104647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17104647", "title": "Paper print", "text": "Paper print\n\nPaper prints were an early mechanism to establish the copyright of motion pictures by depositing them with the Library of Congress. Thomas Alva Edison’s company was first to register each frame of movie film onto a positive paper print, in 1893. The Library of Congress processed and cataloged each of the films as one photograph, accepting thousands of paper prints of films over a twenty-year period.\n\nAn unintended but fortunate side-effect is that while the actual films and negatives of this period decayed or were destroyed, the paper prints sat ignored and more-or-less preserved. When this deposit policy ended in 1912 and actual film prints were registered and immediately returned to the copyright holder, many films in the following three decades were lost forever because their original elements (for example, Nitrate film) were too unstable for any lasting preservation or conservation. Paper prints, though, came with their own unpredictable nature, bringing migration challenges that rival the difficulties involved with the analog/digital conversions of today.\n\nPaper prints were the positive opaque copies of their transparent film negative source. Just like film wound on a film core, the paper print was also tightly wound in the same way. Most accounts of the paper prints collection never mention the chemical composition of the photographs, but archivists at Ohio State University who received one of the restoration printers used for the conversion project refer to these photographic prints as existing on bromide photographic paper. No specifications could be found on the composition of bromide paper of the time, but one manufacturer today is Kentmere. Their bromide paper “features a conventional double weight fiber-base, coated with a neutral tone bromide emulsion…Glossy unglazed surface only. The double weight paper is approximately 276 g/m² and a thickness of approximately 260 μm.” Photos of the paper on cores have a density that look very much like the films would, although there are no specifications on film of the time. Motion picture film was not standardized in the early years, and therefore, neither were their paper copies.\n\nBy 1902, the paper prints had accumulated to 1413 according to the 1943 Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress. By the time of their rediscovery in the early 1940s, over 3000 were stored within a vault of the copyright office. Librarian Howard Walls made the discovery and described the scene this way,\n\nThat vault had been open to all kinds of weather, but the grating was over a shaft so it never rained in there, it never snowed in there. And the successive wrappings on these paper rolls protected them. Each time it was wrapped around, the picture underneath was protected.\nWalls recruited a National Archives motion picture engineer, Carl Louis Gregory, to help get the movies back into shape for screening. Gregory observed the fragile state of the paper, some of which had sprocket perforations punched through. Sprocket holes or not, the paper could never travel through a projector or automated printer without being shredded.\nGregory designed a system that adopted many of the traits involved with shooting animation in that era. He “modified a process optical printer” and was able to exchange sprocket heads and pull down pins that were necessary to advance the film and yet not tear it to pieces. An adjustable aperture plate was added to frame images that had been produced by a variety of cameras without any uniform standardization. The transfer of the paper prints was done at one exposure setting without any consideration for the variations in image density of the negative, so Gregory adjusted his lighting that reflected off the print to maximize the information captured to a new film negative. There is no record of the film format used to recapture the paper prints.\n\nThe war years interrupted plans to migrate more films. Later, Howard Walls would devote his time primarily to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and would try to initiate a program to rescue the paper prints at the Library. Nothing seemed to get beyond the fundraising stage, though, as Walls was enveloped in management intrigue and other responsibilities to the Academy.\n\nThe Academy did take up Walls' cause, but only with his departure in 1953. The real work began with Kemp R. Niver. For roughly a decade, the former filmmaker migrated over two million feet of films from paper. He established the Renovare Company and process (“to restore” in Latin) and with initial funding from the Academy (later funding would be private and then by congressional appropriation), Niver unwound film history. He also wrote a good amount about this program.\n\nAs mentioned, the filmmaking process hadn’t been standardized. In fact, many manufacturers purposely avoided the exact workings of Edison’s well-regarded Kinetograph, thereby avoiding infringement, while copying the essential functions with a few tweaks to the format. Niver also supposed that amateur engineers and filmmakers were designing their own cameras for a time, each one producing a different image size, with variation in sprocket hole number, size and pattern. He ranted about “some little man with a movie picture camera of his very own, constructed from a cigar box, some spare parts from a plow, and pieces of his grandmother’s sewing machine.”\n\nWith adjustments, issues of frame lines and sprocket holes were resolved with each incoming print, but hand cranked film speed was also a nagging issue. Renovare would capture each frame, but a film could have been undercranked and exposed only for twelve frames per second. Playback on today’s film projectors might require 18 or 24 frame/s. Everything would appear comically fast. The solution was to expose a frame or every other frame twice, thereby making the action appear realistic. The reverse was true as well, with overcranked exposures, and frames would have to be removed to avoid slow motion films.\n\nAnother problem encountered by Niver and not discovered in any details of Gregory’s efforts at the Library, is just what happens to photographs that have been tightly rolled up for four decades or more. Niver explained it by way of this example:\n\nLook at the palm of your hand when it is in a relaxed position. Notice the soft wrinkles. Then open your hand—there are no wrinkles on the palm. Now you know what happens to the emulsion of a photograph that is laid out flat after having been in a curved position for half a century.\nNiver reached out to a preservation expert who told him to soak the paper and dry it by heated drum. Both of these are standard last steps in photo development. Niver saw the prints gain some of their original flat disposition and found an added benefit of a soft surface glaze which made for a more definitive image for capture back to film.\n\nRenovare worked through the variety of problems inherent in a collection without uniformity and developed the machinery that would adapt to those problems. By the end of the program, the Mark VIII, an optical printer, could capture about 16,000 frames every six hours. The resulting films were produced on 16 mm acetate safety film stock. Niver’s rationale for this is three-fold: the end users would likely be students and the format was simple to use, storage space was not in abundance, and costs were kept low.\n\nKemp Niver was lauded at first (an Honorary Academy Award in 1954). He also publicized his efforts, which led to “a great number of requests for copies of early films.” The Mark VIII is now with the UCLA film archive while an original restoration printer went into use at Ohio State. Still he did have at least one critic at the time, a film historian who found the guide to his work “full of curious categorization and arbitrary cross-indexing, as well as a great deal of needless duplication.”\n\nFurther criticism would come upon reflection of his work. Simply put; as standards changed, Niver’s migration looked sub-standard. By 1993, a project was already underway. The Library of Congress had reported “widespread dissatisfaction with image loss in the earlier… preservation” and resolved to recopy the paper prints to 35 mm. The Library was praised for this and for not leaving anything out. The new collection of over 200 films was studied by two French film historians who visited the Library in 2003. They made comparisons to the original paper prints and discovered that these “new restorations that the Library of Congress has recently carried out..., unlike Niver’s reconstitutions, are exact copies of the original paper prints.”\n\nNow, the Library's website for the Motion Picture, Broadcasting & Recorded Sound Division proudly announces that the paper prints, their most active collection, are transferring to “vastly superior new 35 mm copies.” They plan on continuing “until the entire collection has been re-photographed.” The events that began over a century ago with the moving image at the Library of Congress continue to unfold.\n\nIn 2004, Kinetta built a new digital scanner specifically for the Library's Paper Print Collection. Used with digital restoration software, and a special Kinetta 35mm B&W Film Recorder, films are scanned from the paper prints at 2K resolution, digitally restored, and output to 35mm B&W film. The resulting restorations are significantly better than the photochemical versions in many aspects. Films restored using this system include two Chaplin shorts. \n\n"}
{"id": "6629291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6629291", "title": "Real Life (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "Real Life (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"Real Life\" is the 64th episode of \"\", the 22nd episode of the . This has two major plots, one is centered on the Doctor having a holographic family, and there is another story with the character Tom Paris. Several guest stars fill in as The Doctor's holofamily.\n\nIn the side plot, \"Voyager\" arrives to meet with Vostigye scientists aboard their station, but finds that the station has been destroyed by unknown causes. They discover a nearby subspace anomaly, likely responsible for the destruction, that is growing in intensity, and Janeway orders the ship to leave. They are suddenly hit by a massive energy wave from the anomaly that disappears just as quickly. The crew determines the anomaly is an eddy between space and subspace, and to be able to move away safely, they must determine when it will next appear. They launch a probe into the anomaly, finding it has a stable center like an eye of a storm and rich in energy they could use to power \"Voyager\".\n\nA plan is crafted to have Tom Paris use a shuttle to get close to the anomaly and collect the energy in the anomaly's waste, as \"Voyager\"s engines appear to be disrupting the anomaly. When Paris gets close, he suddenly disappears into the anomaly. Though injured and suffering effects of being in subspace, Paris is able to still transmit to \"Voyager\" helping to identify the structure of the anomaly as an interfold between space and subspace. With this information, \"Voyager\"s crew is able to help Paris ride the eddy back into normal space, where he is quickly transported to Sickbay and treated back to health by The Doctor .\n\nThe main plot of the episode centers on the Doctor. To help him explore what it means to be human, he has created a virtual family for himself in a holodeck simulation, consisting of his wife Charlene and two children Jeffrey and Belle. The Doctor invites B'Elanna Torres and Kes for dinner, where the two find the family to be far too perfect. Torres offers to make changes to the program to introduce realistic elements to his family. Once completed, the Doctor finds Charlene too busy to take care of the children, and he must manage Jeffrey's involvement with Klingon teenagers and Belle's desire to play the dangerous game of Parrises Squares. The Doctor is troubled by these changes but stays with the program.\n\nDuring the program, Belle is injured and hospitalized during a game; her injuries are too severe and she will die. At that point, the Doctor orders the program terminated. As he is treating Paris for his injuries, Paris reminds him that humans have to take the bad with the good, and that part of what makes a family a family is supporting each other through the hard times, growing closer because of it. The Doctor agrees, and he returns and resumes the program, where he, Charlene, and Jeffrey stay by Belle's side as she passes away.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7680303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7680303", "title": "Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company", "text": "Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company\n\nThe Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company (), informally referred to as Radio Romania (), is the public radio broadcaster in Romania. It operates FM and AM, and internet national and local radio channels. The local stations are branded under the Radio România Regional umbrella. Radio Romania International is the company's international radio station, broadcasting on two channels in Romanian, English, French, Aromanian, Spanish, German, Italian, Serbian, Russian, Ukrainian, Chinese, and Arabic.\n\nThe company operates radio stations as well as broadcasting related entities, listed below.\n\nFM and AM, internet, and T-DAB radio stations:\n\nPublishing\n\nNews Agency\n\nConcerts and events\n\nBefore 1928, there was a pro-radio movement, led by professor Dragomir Hurmuzescu, who, in March 1925, funded \"The Friends of Radio Association\".\n\nThe first experimental transmission was broadcast in summer 1925, during \"Bucharest's month\". Periodic broadcasts were made during 1926 and 1927 by \"The Friends of Radio Association\" and the University Electrotechnical Institute. In 1927 a short wave emitter was installed and were made the first transatlantic experimental broadcasts. \"The gramophone recording broadcast through electromagnetic cartridge has been clearly heard in Boston, United States\". In March 1928 the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company was legally founded.\n\nThe first radio transmission was broadcast on November 1, 1928, 5:00 PM. The first official radio show was inaugurated by the Romanian physicist and professor Dragomir Hurmuzescu, who became the president of the Administration Council of The Radiotelephonic Broadcasting Company.\n\nOn December 18, 1928, the first comic radio show was broadcast.\n\nIn 1929, the following shows are broadcast:\n\n\nThe number of broadcasting hours increases consistently, reaching 3,517 hours in 1934.\n\n\n\nThe political events after the end of World War II affected the institution.\n\n\n\n\nIn July 2008, the Romanian Radio Broadcasting Company changed its logos.\n"}
{"id": "1148067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148067", "title": "Schoolies week", "text": "Schoolies week\n\nSchoolies or schoolies week (also known as leavers' or leavers' week in Queensland Surfers Paradise and Western Australia and coasties in the Australian Capital Territory) refers to the Australian tradition of high-school graduates (also known as \"schoolies\" or \"leavers\") having week-long holidays following the end of their final exams in late November and early December.\n\n\"Toolies\" refers to older revellers who participate in Schoolies week but are not high-school graduates. \"Foolies\" refers to younger adolescents, who participate in Schoolies week but have not yet graduated from high school. Schoolies week is seen as a final party with schoolmates before they head their separate ways.\n\nSchoolies week first began on the Gold Coast, Queensland in the 1970s, in the week following final exams for private single-sex schools. The Broadbeach Hotel was the main meeting place. Schoolies Week events began to be organised for 1980, and from then on the Gold Coast attracted schoolies from all over Australia for celebrations. Since then, the tradition has spread, and Australian high-school graduates celebrate their graduation with a week-long party at many popular tourist destinations around the country.\n\nSchoolies week is considered by many teenagers in Australia as a cultural rite of passage. Schoolies week is seen as transitional period from youth to adulthood, marking a change of state from the imposition of school discipline to the chosen freedom to have a body which is out of control. According to the Official National Schoolies Week Website, \"The most-enduring Schoolies-week tradition is the first run down the beach and dive into the ocean after school is finished forever. That plunge of freedom is the essence of freedom which Schoolies symbolises.\"\n\nQueensland's Gold Coast, particularly Surfers Paradise, maintains its status as the largest single venue for this revelry, attracting tens of thousands of schoolies. The Gold Coast is viewed as a liminal space, somewhere to get away, a city of theme parks and leisure by the sea where transitions are possible. Research carried out in 2003 found schoolies boosted the Gold Coast economy by $59 million. In 2011, up to 40,000 students were expected to visit the Gold Coast.\n\nSchoolies are also present on the Sunshine Coast; this is an alternative for the graduates who fear the negative media attention attracted on the Gold Coast. According to the Sunshine Coast Region council the Sunshine Coast had about 500 schoolies visit in 2009. The local council on the Sunshine Coast stopped providing events for schoolies in 2007.\n\nSchoolies have similar traditions at Magnetic Island in Townsville, Airlie Beach in the Whitsundays and Port Macquarie. Byron Bay and Surfers Paradise are particularly popular amongst private school graduates. For South Australia, Victor Harbor is the location of choice, while in Victoria the Surf Coast is popular, mainly consisting of Lorne and Torquay, however Phillip Island is also quite popular for students living in the east and south of Victoria. At Victor Harbor in 2011, approximately 15,000 students were expected to celebrate. In Western Australia, Rottnest Island off Perth and the South West towns of Dunsborough and Busselton are popular destinations. Also, Western Australians often go to Bali, which is located in Indonesia, as it is a spot for parties, late nights, and cheap shopping. In Tasmania there is not an established \"Schoolies\" location or tradition as such. Internationally, popular schoolies destinations include Fiji and Vanuatu. In Fiji, whole islands have been dedicated to schoolie celebrations.\n\nSince the event began to attract large enough numbers to warrant annual media attention, Schoolies week has become a familiar concept nationwide. The media have represented the event as a period of lawlessness, loutish behaviour and unruliness. Some local residents and media have criticised the event due to binge drinking, and sexual promiscuity. Police attention is regularly required where the collective behaviour of schoolies at some locations gets out of hand, such as at Rottnest Island in 1986. In efforts to reduce such acts, the week-long event on Rottnest Island in Western Australia has, as of 2006, been reduced to three days, which itself has resulted in a fair amount of criticism from young members of the public.\n\nIn recent years, violence (notably sexual violence) has become an increased threat to the safety of attendees. Fights have broken out between schoolies from one area and another and predictable media coverage of antics, accidents, and attacks has followed. The Queensland Government has been criticised for their efforts to stage-manage the event and limit celebrations.\n\n2009 saw one of the most troublesome Gold Coast Schoolies celebrations in history, where in one night, police arrested 30 schoolies, and the number of arrests for the entire week doubled compared to the previous year. Superintendent Jim Keogh said that during eight days of 2009 schoolies celebrations, 217 schoolies had been arrested on 244 charges, compared with 94 schoolies arrested for the same period in 2006. Charges were laid against schoolies for serious assault, drunk and disorderly conduct, drug possession and obstructing police. The incidents prompted talks of banning Schoolies week. This has led schoolies to look at safer alternatives to ensure their wellbeing.\n\nOfficial Schoolies events are drug-free and alcohol-free events held at many Schoolies destinations. They include concerts, dances and parties. For all official events, attendees are required to be a registered schoolie and present a schoolie ID on entry. This schoolie ID, which at some locations includes a photo, is given to each schoolie upon registering, which requires the presentation of a current school ID and incurs a small fee. At many destinations, the official events are held in fenced-off areas or in nightclubs to prevent the infiltration of \"toolies\" and to maintain crowd control. Some events are free, while others (often those held at nightclubs) incur an entry fee.\n\nPopular schoolies (or leavers) venues are often attended by people well past school age, labelled by the media as \"toolies\" or \"droolies\". Toolies are associated with the targeting of drunk teenagers for sex, and are also frequently involved in disturbances taking place during the celebrations. Because of this, toolies are a major topic of media scrutiny during Schoolies week. Toolies also refers to early school leavers who are in apprenticeship training but join in the Schoolies celebrations.\n\nAnother group that have some presence at Schoolies week celebrations are those known as \"foolies\" or \"pre-schoolies\". These are adolescents who have not yet left school but still partake in activities during Schoolies week. Many organised events during Schoolies week, such as concerts, only admit those who are school leavers. On the Gold Coast in particular, Schoolies are often given wristbands as a form of identification.\n\nSchoolies week celebrations can involve large volumes of alcohol and other drugs such as tobacco, cannabis and ecstasy. Confrontations between participants can occur resulting in violent assaults. Other problems and risk associated with schoolies week include sexual health and sexual assault. In 2010, the Queensland Police made 145 arrests of school leavers on the Gold Coast, down from the 220 arrests made in 2009.\n\nIn 2002, the Queensland Government established a triage to treat and assess injuries and implement first aid. There have been a number of schoolies-related deaths and many violent altercations between youths. In one case death resulting from balcony fall in 2010 which has been claimed to be from planking.\n\nWidely considered a week long alcohol binge, schoolies week is most criticised for excessive drinking and problems that flow from this. A 2010 study found that almost two-thirds of schoolies will consume more than ten drinks per night. The survey also revealed that most of the teenagers surveyed rated the experience negatively afterwards.\n\nMore recently laws have been changed at a Federal level increasing the tax on pre-mixed spirits, and at a state level in Queensland to focus on parents supplying alcohol to their children in an irresponsible way. Drink spiking has also been a significant problem.\n\nThe availability of drugs at Schoolies week has also been a problem . In 2011 25% of male schoolies and 14% of females reported being stoned most or every day or night of Schoolies week.\n\nSchoolies has been long known for its violence, and media reporting has often focused on schoolies violence. In the mid-1990s there were incidents where news crews handed out money for schoolies to initiate violence so they could film schoolies violence for the evening news. In 1996, the Gold Coast City Council began to increase regulation of events and spaces.\n\nOne of the most violent Schoolies was in 2002 at the Gold Coast. Police were under-resourced, as several violent clashes occurred involving groups of people every night that week. In subsequent years with police numbers significantly increased and innovative approaches developed, the violence has continued, but police have rapidly engaged and resolved violence. When the Queensland Government took over the management of Schoolies at the Gold Coast in 2003 from the Gold Coast City Council, after the most violent Schoolies week in 2002, their primary concern was public perceptions of Schoolies week.\n\nSchoolies destinations have been more heavily policed since, and some destinations have engaged private security guards to assist. The most significant statistic regarding violence at schoolies over the past few decades has placed the blame more so in the hands of 'toolies' than 'schoolies' themselves. Damage to hotel rooms has occurred, as well as vandalism to other private and public property.\n\nSexual health has been made a focus since opportunities for casual sex at schoolies week can lead to unprotected sex and the propagation of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). There are also concerns about sexual activity in public places such as beaches. Increases in sexual assaults during schoolies week destinations has also been a problem. A 2010 study found that one-third of males were expecting to have sex with multiple partners.\n\nThe event is supported by an all-volunteer group of Christians who are recruited into the Red Frogs network. Around 1,500 volunteers serve in 17 locations across Australia. The group aims to directly support partying school-leavers through a positive presence. This might involve walking them home, cleaning or cooking for them. The network began at the Gold Coast in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "957596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957596", "title": "Shirley Dinsdale", "text": "Shirley Dinsdale\n\nShirley Dinsdale Layburn (October 31, 1926 – May 9, 1999), better known by her maiden name of Shirley Dinsdale, was an American ventriloquist and television and radio personality of the 1940s and early 1950s.\n\nShe is best remembered for her dummy \"Judy Splinters\" and for the early 15-minute children's television show that bears that name. In 1949, she received the first Emmy award (first award in the first presentation) for Outstanding Television Personality when she was a student at UCLA. After her television career, she also achieved success in a second career as a cardiopulmonary therapist.\n\nDinsdale was born in San Francisco, California in 1926. After being badly burned in a household accident when she was 5 years old, she was given a ventriloquist's dummy by her father, who manufactured dummies for department stores, as part of her recovery. That dummy, which she named Judy Splinters, inspired her to make her break into radio. Lawrence Johnson, a ventriloquist, helped Dinsdale improve her natural talent for throwing her voice.\n\nDinsdale was an A student at Drew School in San Francisco. By the time she was 16, she had received a Distinguished Honor Citation from the United States government for her promotion of war bonds. During the war, she was student chairman for Southern California Schools at War.\n\nDinsdale made her start in radio in 1941 with \"Judy in Wonderland\" on KGO in San Francisco. The program later moved to KPO in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1942, she and her family moved to Los Angeles and she was given a spot on Eddie Cantor's program. She was called \"radio's most refreshing discovery in years.\" A successful season on Nelson Eddy's \"Electric Hour\" program on CBS in 1945 led to a tour lasting almost 11 months, during which she visited patients in military hospitals under the auspices of the United Service Organizations and participated in more than 500 USO shows during that span.\n\nDuring World War II, she was an active member of the Hollywood Victory Committee. After the war, she made her break into the budding television industry on KTLA (also in Los Angeles) doing show announcements, birthday greetings, and small spots. These spots, while not initially prominent, garnered her critical acclaim and her Emmy award. (The award was given jointly to both her and her puppet.) After receiving the award, she was given her own weekly children's show (entitled simply \"Judy Splinters\"), which ran from 1949 to 1950. It originated at KNBH in Los Angeles and was show in the Midwest and East via Kinescope. In the years following, she had shows in both Chicago and New York City.\n\nIn 1953, she embarked on the second phase of her life: retiring from show business, getting married and having two children. She remained married till her death.\n\nIn 1958 she appeared as a guest challenger on the TV panel show \"To Tell the Truth\".\n\nIn 1970 Dinsdale enrolled at the State University of New York at Stony Brook to study respiratory and cardiopulmonary therapy. She graduated class of 1972. Dinsdale served as the head of the Respiratory Therapy Department at John T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, New York from 1973 to her second retirement in 1986.\n\nOn July 14, 1953, Dinsdale married Frank Layburn, a field engineer, in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nShe died from cancer on May 9, 1999 at her home in Stony Brook, New York. Survivors included her husband, a son, a daughter, and two grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "12037691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12037691", "title": "Snails (video game)", "text": "Snails (video game)\n\nSnails is a shooting game by PDAmill for Windows Mobile. There was also a version for Palm OS, now discontinued, and alpha/beta versions for Symbian and Microsoft Windows, which have not been updated in over a year. In the game, you play as a race of snails (Moogums, Lupeez, or Nooginz) planning world conquest (of the planet Schnoogie) in either Missions or Deathmatch modes. In Missions mode, players complete levels to unlock new weapons and the final mission. In Deathmatch mode, players simply fight and kill enemy snails. There are four Deathmatch modes: Human vs. CPU, CPU vs. CPU, Human vs. Human, and Human vs. Human (network play). The game features many destructive weapons, including teargas, which is deadly because the salt from a snail's tears dry out its body.\n\nThis game won the 2004 Pocket PC Magazine award for shooting games.\n\nSome have observed that the game is inspired by, or similar to, the \"Worms\" series.\n"}
{"id": "4719814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719814", "title": "Spellbinder: Land of the Dragon Lord", "text": "Spellbinder: Land of the Dragon Lord\n\nSpellbinder: Land of the Dragon Lord is a teen, preteen and children's television series, and a sequel to \"Spellbinder\". Both series deal with travelling between parallel universes. It was also novelised by the creators, Mark Shirrefs and John Thomson.\n\nThe series was filmed on location in Australia (\"Kathy's world\" and another parallel world similar to hers), China (\"Sun's world\") and Poland (\"Ashka's world\", as well as two other parallel universes). The show was a joint production between studios in the three countries, although the script and concept came from Australia, and the spoken language is English.\n\nThe series is fast-paced and there are usually new challenges for the characters in each episode, which are solved through cleverness and wits. As with most children's shows, most of the adventure is headed by children (Kathy is in her middle-teens), although Ashka, Kathy's parents, and the scientist Mek are adults.\n\nWhen Kathy decides to explore an unusual boat that she discovers next to a lake, she is accidentally pulled from her home in Australia into a parallel universe. The new world she finds herself in is populated by ethnic Chinese, who possess advanced technology, including a talking computer called the \"Oracle\" that runs the empire.\n\nKathy spends most of her time trying to evade dangerous people, return to her own world, and reunite with her family. She is further antagonised by Ashka, a cunning and manipulative woman who has escaped from prison in her own world (for her crimes in the first series) and who seeks to gain advantage for herself.\n\nThe series also depicts a journey Sun takes to Kathy's world, where he is no longer protected by his empire, and people do not respect his authority.\n\nFilmed in Poland, most of it in Nieborów, with the Arkadia palace serving as Lem's and Guin's residence, and the Temple of Diana in the palace's park as the Doctor Elvo's home. The scenes in which Kathy is being taken to school were filmed in the Old Town of Warsaw and Łazienki Park.\n\nParts of the series were shot on location in Poland, with the Wieliczka Salt Mine used for underground locations, while the village and the scrap yard were filmed near Kraków.\n\n\n\nThe original \"Spellbinder\" series was first shown in the USA in 1996 on The Disney Channel, joining with an earlier Australian science fiction series called \"Ocean Girl\". However, after 1997 The Disney Channel decided not to get the 2nd season, as well as renewing \"Ocean Girl\" (which Disney helped finance OG seasons 2 and 3). However, \"Spellbinder: Land Of The Dragon Lord\" was picked up by the FOX Family Channel and the series started airing on 15 August 1998 with the channel's launch. Unfortunately, FOX Family Channel cancelled the show shortly afterward. Although FOX Family Channel had said that they would show all the episodes later on, they never did. A few years later the FOX Family Channel ownership was bought by ABC Capital TV Network, which is owned by Disney Corporation, and is now called Freeform, and it seems unlikely that USA viewers will ever see the entire \"Spellbinder 2\".\n\nIt was shown on satellite and cable channel The Children's Channel and terrestrially in Ireland on RTÉ Two in 1998.\n\nThe series started in Russia in 1998. Different channels were showing \"Spellbinder\" 1 and 2 several times.\n\nThe DVD set was made available on Friday 4 May 2007, and contains the entire series over 4 discs.\n\n"}
{"id": "14685200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14685200", "title": "Supergirl (comic book)", "text": "Supergirl (comic book)\n\nSupergirl is the name of seven comic book series published by DC Comics, featuring various characters of the same name. The majority of the titles feature Superman's cousin Kara Zor-El.\n\nThe first series featured the original Supergirl, Superman's cousin Kara Zor-El. It began publication in 1972 following a 44-issue run of Supergirl stories in \"Adventure Comics\", ending with issue #424 (October 1972). The series lasted for 10 issues until 1974, after which the character began appearing regularly in \"The Superman Family\" commencing with issue #165. The release of the last issue of \"Supergirl\" was delayed for several months due to a nationwide paper shortage.\n\nDuring its first year of publication, the second Kara Zor-El series was titled \"The Daring New Adventures of Supergirl\". With issue #13, the name was shortened to \"Supergirl\", and the title continued monthly publication for a total of 23 issues.\n\nIn 1994, DC Comics published a four-issue limited series featuring a new Supergirl who was introduced early in the Post-\"Crisis\" era. Sometimes referred to as Matrix, this new character was a protoplasmic duplicate of an alternate universe Lana Lang, granted superpowers by an alternate Lex Luthor. Having been brought to the mainstream DC Universe by Superman, she became romantically involved with the mainstream Luthor, who was posing as his own fictitious son Lex Luthor II. This limited series resolved many of the threads remaining from that plotline.\n\nThe fourth series featured a third Supergirl. This character was a fusion of the Matrix Supergirl and Linda Danvers (a Post-Crisis version of Linda Lee Danvers, Kara Zor-El's Pre-Crisis secret identity). The series ran for 81 issues, ending with the main character journeying to an alternate universe following the re-emergence of the original version of Kara Zor-El.\n\nIn 2004, DC Comics introduced an updated version of Kara Zor-El in the pages of \"Superman/Batman\". The following year, she began appearing in her own ongoing series, with \"Superman/Batman\" #19 being republished as issue #0 of \"Supergirl\". Sterling Gates took over the title in late 2008 with issue #34. Amy Reeder Hadley was announced as the new cover artist for the series in May 2010.\n\nDC Comics relaunched \"Supergirl\" with issue #1 in September 2011 as part of The New 52 reboot.\n\nA new \"Supergirl\" series written by Steve Orlando and incorporating elements of the \"Supergirl\" television series began in September 2016 (November 2016 cover date) as part of the DC Rebirth relaunch. The series took a three month hiatus in April and resumed publication in August of 2018 with the release of #21.\n\n"}
{"id": "54463060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54463060", "title": "Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation", "text": "Tanzania Broadcasting Corporation\n\nThe Tanzanian Broadcasting Corporation is a television network. It is Tanzania's national network and is government-owned and operated.\n\nRadio broadcasts began on July 1, 1951. Until 1994, there was no single television network operating on mainland Tanzania. The only station of the United Republic was Television Zanzibar (TVZ), which was established in the early 1970s. Whereas other African countries had decided to establish television shortly before or soon after independence Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere’s cabinet resisted the introduction of television at all, insisting that the medium was too expensive and that Tanzania’s radio coverage was yet too imperfect. Moreover, it was argued that such an expansion would merely serve the upper and wealthy strata of the population as an entertainment medium. On the contrary, television proponents claimed that the medium could be an effective instrument in the national development process since it produced social awareness among the people. As a consequence acceptance of and participation in various development programmes could be ensured. But in June 1974, President Julius Nyerere settled the matter by saying: \"When we have a satellite that would make it possible to cover the whole country I will go for television ... and not until then.“ As a result, the schemes of many institutions, such as UNESCO, Swedish Telecommunications Administration (Swedtel), Nippon Electric Corporation, or the British Marconi Company, were simply archived. In addition, the importation of TV sets was banned by law in 1974. Despite this, after the launch of many private TV Stations the government decided that in 2001 it awarded a TV channel to TBC.\n\nProgramming includes news and entertainment. In March 2017, Tanzania Broad Casting Corporation quoted the 45th President of The United States of America Donald Trump as saying that Tanzanian president John Magufuli was \"the African hero\". Leaders of opposition party Chadema condemned TBC for falling for the news, which was later revealed to be fake.\n\nTBC broadcasts on a single TV channel and 3 radio stations (though private television channels and radio stations also exist) and is also available via satellite and online.\n\n"}
{"id": "38473576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38473576", "title": "The Mackinnons", "text": "The Mackinnons\n\nThe Mackinnons was a BBC Scotland drama series, which started in 1977. It starred Bill Simpson as the head of the Mackinnon family, a vet in the fictional Argyll town of Inverglen (the opening shot actually showed Inveraray).\n\nIt was seen as inhabiting similar terrain to \"Dr. Finlay's Casebook\" and \"Sutherland's Law\", but was less successful.\n\n"}
{"id": "36718475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36718475", "title": "Viva TV (Philippines)", "text": "Viva TV (Philippines)\n\nViva TV (visually rendered in lowercase letters as viva) is a Philippine satellite and cable entertainment TV channel owned by Viva Entertainment.\n\nIn February 2000, Viva TV was launched as a block on primetime aired on IBC. The new block of the network came after Viva Entertainment's acquisition of Vintage Television. This includes movie blocks, dramas series, showbiz-oriented shows, music videos, comedy, game shows and sports shows including the Philippine Basketball Association.\n\nIn early 2003, Viva TV ended its airing on IBC after Viva decided not to renew a blocktime agreement with the network to air the block due to high programming costs and low ratings. Despite this, then before Star for a Night (Philippines) Grand Finals, its last Viva TV-produced program was aired on IBC on March 1, 2003.\n\nAfter a 9-year hiatus, on July 16, 2012, Viva TV went back on the air, the channel was relaunched as a new 24-hour all-Filipino general entertainment channel on cable and satellite, replacing Viva Cinema. It was transformed from a movie/general entertainment channel to a full length entertainment channel which includes music videos, talkshows, reality series, concerts and behind the scenes from movies featuring some of the contract artists of Viva Entertainment including Sarah Geronimo, Anne Curtis, KC Concepcion, among others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32973820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32973820", "title": "Wasteland Angel", "text": "Wasteland Angel\n\nWasteland Angel is a vehicular combat shoot 'em up video game created by the Finnish independent developer team Octane Games. Released on September 1, 2011, the game is published by Meridian4 for Windows and is distributed online through Steam, Impulse, GamersGate, Direct2Drive, and Amazon Download.\n\nThe game is set after a fictional World War III in a post-apocalyptic United States where various gangs prey on towns in which survivors from the war have gathered. The player assumes the role the eponymous female protagonist, Angel, as she defends the towns and searches for her lost friend. The game is played from a bird's eye view as the player controls a car and its mounted machine guns in order to destroy enemies and vehicles. Players can find more powerful guns to attach to the car and can also use special weapons such as napalm or spike strips which are picked up after killing certain enemies.\n\nThe game was the first to be released under the Octane Games brand. It received average reviews from critics upon release, with IGN's Gord Goble writing that his main issue with the game was that it was very short and lacked any lasting appeal. Shortly after the game's release, an update was made available that added support for dual-monitors, support for editable key configurations, and more destructible objects to the game.\n\nThe story, told through the use of voiced and animated comic panels, centers on Angel, a heroine in a post-apocalyptic United States that travels from town to town protecting helpless survivors of the war from attacking gangs. Angel defends the towns using Gypsy, the name given to her armored car equipped with mounted machine guns. The game uses an overhead view as the player speeds around a small town using Gypsy's machine guns to repel enemy gangs known as Wastelanders. There are three types of Wastelanders and each one unleashes attacks in a different manner: The Slavers class will attempt to capture the townspeople, Killers will only attack the player, and Duals can take on either the role of attacking or capturing during a raid. When enemies are killed, they leave behind weapons for the player such as napalm, land mines, or Electromagnetic pulse bombs (EMPs); or they drop upgrades which improve the car's weapons or armor. The EMPs are used to temporarily disable all the enemies on the screen while the napalm and land mines can be set between waves as traps for unsuspecting Wastelanders. One weapon upgrade offers players incendiary ammunition for the car's machine guns which makes it easier to destroy enemies by lighting them on fire.\n\nThe game offers four different difficulty settings and includes online leaderboards which enumerate high scores that different players have achieved for the game. The game is segmented into protecting six different villages, and each village is broken up into four levels: a Day level, a Boss level, a Night level, and a bonus level. Levels are further broken into waves as increasingly difficult enemies attack the village. The bonus level drops the top-down camera view and is played from the perspective of the driver seat of the car. Boss levels confront the player with a boss enemy that is much stronger than the other enemies encountered in the game. Each boss requires the player to discover and employ a predefined strategy in order to defeat them. For example, the first boss is a giant steamroller with an attached flamethrower that can not be damaged by the car's regular guns and instead requires the use of napalm to destroy it.\n\nThe game is set after a fictional World War III, the events of which have killed off much of the population; those left alive are forced to fight for survival. Some of the survivors have formed gangs, some turned into mutants from the war's radiation, and some joined an evil militia; collectively, these groups are known as Wastelanders. Raiding different towns and villages, the Wastelanders sought to prey on the townspeople by stealing supplies, forcing some into slavery, and killing others. The heroine of the story, Angel, travels from town to town in search of her lost friend, Ekx, while helping the town's survivors fend off attacks from Wastelanders. Cruising in her armored car, Gypsy, she makes use of the car's mounted machine guns to defend the towns from thieves and slavers. The first lead Angel finds on her lost friend is from the city of Core, where Ekx was seen traveling through the city on his way to Coalhaven. Angel reaches Coalhaven and uses her armored car to defend the city from members of the renegade militia. After repelling the enemy, the townspeople re-establish their wireless communications and contact the nearby city of New Dallas. Recognizing the voice on the other end, the receiving operator in New Dallas turns out to be Angel's lost friend, Ekx. Ekx confides in Angel that he needs her for something urgent and that she must join him in New Dallas.\n\nShortly after arriving, the city is forced to rally all of its survivors, including Angel and Ekx, in order to fend off an incoming attack from the Renegades. The two friends become separated during the fighting, but not before Ekx gives a mysterious book to Angel. After making her way to the city of Highwall, Angel encounters Wastelanders worshiping a mystic that claims the earth was not destroyed by nuclear war, but by a \"crack in the universe.\" Angel is skeptical of these claims, although Ekx believes her to be the deliverer. After receiving a mission from Ekx, Angel heads through the badlands, north, to a survivor camp. Despite rumors that the place may be flooded, the game ends as Angel heads to New York to find out why Ekx has entrusted her with the mysterious book.\n\n\"Wasteland Angel\" was first announced on May 17, 2011, with a prospective release date for summer of the same year. The game was developed by Octane Games, an independent development team in Kotka, Finland that is owned by Nitro Games. The company was founded in Spring 2011, shortly after Nitro Games completed the arcade shooter \"Woody Two-Legs\". \"Wasteland Angel\" would be their first release under the Octane Games brand. Before the release, the group had already announced the second game they were working on: a pirate role-playing game titled \"Raven's Cry\". Although \"Wasteland Angel\" is published by Meridian4, \"Raven's Cry\" was signed to be published by TopWare Interactive. In the announcement for \"Wasteland Angel\", the publisher noted plans to make additional downloadable content available for the game after it was launched. In an August 2011 interview, Octane Games CEO Jussi Tähtinen stated that the company was focusing on multiplatform development and that \"Wasteland Angel\" seemed in ideal fit to be marketed for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, but he declined to share any specific plans to bring the game to either platform. When asked about the possibility of a multiplayer mode, Tähtinen again declined to make any announcement.\n\n\"Wasteland Angel\" was released on September 1, 2011, through online distribution networks: Steam, Impulse, GamersGate, Direct2Drive, and Amazon Download. In a press release for the game, Meridian4's Marketing Director Steve Milburn stated, \"Much like the Honey Badger, Wasteland Angel is also 'pretty badass' \" and provided a hyperlink to a satirical YouTube video about the honey badger. The developers released a demo for the game on September 12 which included four stages with a boss fight. A September 2011 update for the game was also released which included support for dual-monitors, editable key configurations, and more destroyable objects available in the game.\n\n\"Wasteland Angel\" received average reviews upon release, garnering a rating of 55% on the review aggregation website GameRankings. Gamers Daily News' Jeff Lindsey appreciated the perspective change accompanying the bonus level, stating, \"To be perfectly honest, I squealed with delight when I got to see the carnage first hand and create mayhem before your eyes.\" Strategy Informer was not as appreciative of the jump in perspective, noting that the game's maps and engine did not appear to be designed for the first-person perspective and the mode instead presented itself as \"more than a little jarring.\" While Travis Huinker of Gaming Nexus criticized the game for having poor driving physics, Shack News's Jeff Mattas enjoyed the controls, stating, \"Though there are certain liberties taken with the driving physics, they feel right at home with the frantic, arcade-style action.\" Ultimately, Huinker did not recommend the game, but Lindsey called it \"the most fun game that I have played this year\".\n"}
{"id": "760924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=760924", "title": "Yoko Tsuno", "text": "Yoko Tsuno\n\nYoko Tsuno is a comics album series created by the Belgian writer Roger Leloup published by Dupuis in \"Spirou\" magazine since its debut in 1970. Through twenty-eight volumes, the series tell the adventures of Yoko Tsuno, a female electrical engineer of Japanese origin surrounded by her close friends, Vic Video and Pol Pitron (see Yoko Tsuno characters). Their adventures bring them to, among other places, Belgium (Bruges), Germany, Scotland, Japan, Hong Kong, Indonesia and also into outer space. The stories are heavily technology driven, with concepts like robot dragons (\"Le Dragon de Hong Kong\"), suspended animation (\"La Frontière de la vie\"), time travel (\"La Spirale du temps\" and others), and even an alien species called the Vineans. Despite the often exotic settings and science-fiction plot lines, the stories generally remain realistic on the personal level between the characters and friendship, love and spirituality are some of the key themes of the series. The art is drawn in Ligne claire style, although having originally started out in the Marcinelle style. When depiciting real-world settings, Leloup aspires to be as true to reality as possible, with places like Burg Katz or Rothenburg ob der Tauber depicted with almost photographic skill.\n\n\"Yoko Tsuno\" first appeared in the Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"Spirou\" on September 24, 1970 with the 8 page short \"Hold–up en hi–fi\". This and the following two shorter works \"La belle et la bête\" and \"Cap 351\" served as precursors for the first full-length \"Yoko Tsuno\" adventure, \"Le trio de l'étrange\" serialised in \"Spirou\" from May 13, 1971. Staying with \"Spirou\" for the following 30 years, the series still appears in the magazine to date. The series has accumulated 28 albums (with a 29th one being prepared) and has been collected in nine integral compilations.\n\nYoko Tsuno is an electrical engineer, who was raised in Japan but now lives in Belgium. She is quite compassionate and has a knack for making friends. Yoko is also a skilled scuba diver, holds a black belt in aikido, and can pilot both gliders and helicopters. This wide range of competences, together with her near-flawless behaviour, makes Yoko fall into the classic category of a competent woman. The flaw she does admit to having is the typically Japanese trait of valuing personal honour highly, which leads her at times to be trusting to the point of blindness.\nYoko Tsuno's first name was inspired by Japanese actress Yoko Tani.\n\nVic Video (, but sometimes also referred to as Max): He has a strong personality, and is a close friend of Yoko (whom he seems to be in love with, though this is only hinted at). Before meeting Yoko, he directed live TV shows. He is often the voice of reason and prudence moderating Yoko's impulsiveness. Vic appears in all albums except \"Aventures électroniques\", \"L'Or du Rhin\" and \"La Pagode des brumes\".\n\nPol Pitron (, ) is the comic relief of the trio. His name comes from French \"pitre\", literally \"clown\". Before meeting Yoko, he worked as a camera operator under direction of Vic. Pol is often lazy and grumpy, as well as a real gourmet. He is also playful and thus quite fond of children. Pol appears in all albums except \"La Pagode des brumes\", although he appears in only two stories of \"Aventures électroniques\".\nWhere almost all other characters in the comics are drawn realistically anatomically speaking, in the early albums, Pol's nose and eyes are cartoonishly large and round.\n\nKhany is a member of the extraterrestrial race of Vineans, who left their planet when it faced destruction by its twin suns and erected secret subterranean colonies on various habitable planets, including Earth. As of the end of \"La Forge de Vulcain\" and the fall of Karpan's leadership, she is also their undeclared leader who directs the return of the Vineans from Earth to Vinea. She is also undertaking expeditions to find lost Vinean colonies. Like Vic, she is quite careful in her actions. Khany appears in \"Le Trio de l'étrange\", \"La Forge de Vulcain\", \"Les Trois soleils de Vinéa\", \"Les Titans\", \"La Lumière d'Ixo\", \"Les Archanges de Vinéa\", \"Les Exilés de Kifa\", \"La Porte des âmes\", \"La Servante de Lucifer\" and \"Le Secret de Khâny\".\n\nKhany's younger sister, and originally her twin sister, who was revived from suspended animation much later than Khany after their arrival on Earth and has thus remained a child. She is quite attached to Yoko and has become close friends with Morning Dew. She appears, nearly always at her sister's side, in \"Le Trio de l'étrange\", \"La Forge de Vulcain\", \"Les Trois soleils de Vinéa\", \"Les Titans\", \"La Lumière d'Ixo\", \"Les Archanges de Vinéa\", \"Les Exilés de Kifa\", \"La Porte des âmes\", \"La Servante de Lucifer\" and \"Le Secret de Khâny\".\n\nRosée du Matin (\"Morning Dew\"; Dutch: \"Roosje\"; German: \"Morgentau\") is Yoko's adopted Chinese daughter, as of \"Le Dragon de Hong Kong\". The child of two biologists who experimented with the artificial enlargement of animals, she was orphaned when her parents perished in a storm. She had been raised by her grandfather, but due to his deteriorating health, he entrusted guardianship to Yoko. She has so far also participated in Yoko's time travel exploits and her trips into outer space. Rosée appears in all albums from \"Le Dragon de Hong Kong\" onwards. She was inspired by Leloup's daughter, adopted from Korea.\n\nMonya is a fourteen-year-old time traveler from 3872, whom Yoko meets during the events described in \"La Spirale du temps\". After changing history during this adventure, Monya is unable to return to her native time. She is adopted by Yoko's cousin and the two girls become fast friends. With the help of Monya's time machine, the \"translateur\", Yoko and her friends undertake several time-travelling adventures.\n\nA spirited fourteen-year-old girl of Scottish-Russian descent, who appears in the series as of \"Le Septième Code\". While she is not a skilled violin player as her mother was (and wanted her daughter to be), she demonstrates a natural aptitude for piloting. In \"La Servante de Lucifer\", she is also revealed to have some latent telepathic talent.\nTwo female Vinean nursery androids. While Myna is an older construct from before the Vinean exodus (\"Les Exilés de Kifa\"), Angela was built as a gift for Morning Dew based on a children's book Morning Dew had left behind during a previous visit on Vinea (\"La Servante de Lucifer\").\n\nYoko Tsuno first meets Vic and Pol when they catch her trying to break into a laboratory in \"Le Trio de l'étrange\". The moment the men confront her, the owner of the laboratory explains that he hired the Japanese girl to test a burglar alarm system. Vic, intrigued by Yoko's knowledge in electrical engineering and planning to do an independent television production with Pol as the cameraman, asks Yoko to come along. However, their filming operation turns out to become the first of a whole series of strange adventures, as they stumble upon a secret underground enclave inhabited by a highly advanced, blue-skinned people, the Vineans. This adventure forges a strong friendship between the three, inspiring them to stay together as the \"Strange Trio\", who join each other on surreal adventures on Earth, in outer space, and even the depths of bygone times.\n\nThe main characters are based in Belgium, although adventures take place around the world and even in the Vinean solar system, 2,500,000 light years away. When the stories are Earth-based, they mostly take place in existing settings, such as the German locations Burg Katz and Rothenburg ob der Tauber, the Chinese city of Hong Kong, or the Belgian city of Bruges.\n\nRoger Leloup also wrote a novel with Yoko as the heroine, published in 1991: \"L'Écume de l'aube\" (\"The Foam of the Dawn\") (), which relates the childhood and youth of Yoko Tsuno.\n\nBooks from the Yoko Tsuno series have been translated from French to sixteen languages: Basque, Catalan, Chinese, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, German, Greek, Icelandic, Indonesian, Italian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish.\n\nAs of 2015, only a limited number of Yoko Tsuno comics have been translated to English. Books #3 and 6 (\"La Forge de Vulcain\" and \"Les Trois soleils de Vinéa\") were released in English in 1989 under the series title, \"The Adventures of Yoko, Vic and Paul\" by Catalan Communications under their \"Comcat\" line. Some liberties were taken in the translation to English. For example, Yoko's last name was changed to \"Suno\", Khany was renamed \"Kani\" and the Vineans became \"Vinans\" from the planet \"Vina\". Plot transitions between individual episodes were also altered; for instance, at the conclusion of \"The Prey and the Ghost\" (original issue #12), Vic tells Yoko in the original version that he was contacted by Khany, leading to the events of issue #13, \"The Archangels of Vinea\"; in the English translation, instead he tells her that it was her father who gave him a message for her, which in the Comcat line of continuity would lead to \"Daughter of the Wind\" (original issue #9).\n\nComcat planned next on reprinting books #8, 10, 13, and possibly #17, but the company went under.\n\nThirteen books have been translated into English and published by Cinebook Ltd:\n\nThe Hong Kong-based Bayard Press Asia–Le Grain de Seneve Publishing Co. Ltd has published two Yoko stories in Chinese:\n\n\nThe series title for these albums was changed to 海羽傳奇 (The Legacy of Yoko Tsuno).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7727440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7727440", "title": "Zmaj Children Games", "text": "Zmaj Children Games\n\nZmaj Children Games ( / \"Zmajeve dečije igre\") is one of the biggest festivals for children in Serbia and the Novi Sad region. Named after Jovan Jovanović Zmaj, one of the most famous Serbian poets and writers of children's literature, the festival is held annually in June and December in Novi Sad, the capital of the Serbian province of Vojvodina.\n\nThe first festival was held in June 1958 under the name \"\"Festival of literature for children, drama and puppet theatre\" (\"Фестивал дечије поезије, драме и луткарског позоришта\"). Its organizer is Matica Srpska in Novi Sad. In 1969, the name was changed to \"Zmaj Children Games\".\n\nThe main idea behind the festival is to gather writers, illustrators, critics, publishers, editors and readers of children's literature from Serbia and beyond. The Zmaj Children Games have their own publishing in the form of the magazine \"Детињство\"\" (\"Childhood\") and hold a gathering of well respected children's literature authors in Zmaj Jovina Street 26.\n\nEvery June for a few days, children's plays, concerts, and shows gather children from Novi Sad and its surrounding region in Zmaj Jovina Street (the main street in Novi Sad's city centre).\n\n\n"}
