{"id": "14084602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14084602", "title": "Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf", "text": "Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf\n\nArab cuisine of the Persian Gulf includes cuisines that are shared by the population in the coastal region of Eastern Arabia. Seafood is a very significant part of the diet of the inhabitants of the coast of the Persian Gulf. Fish is very popular, usually eaten with rice. The cuisine of eastern Arabia is different from the cuisine of the Arabs of Hejaz, Najd and other parts of Arabia. Harees is also a very popular dish in the region.\n\nOriginally, the Arabs of the Persian Gulf relied heavily on a diet of dates, wheat, barley, rice and meat, with little variety, and with a heavy emphasis on yogurt products, such as \"leben\" (لبن) (yogurt without butterfat). Globalization and contact with ancient civilizations such as the Romans, Persians, and later on with the Ottomans brought the Arabs in close contact with dishes of several other cultures, as well as introducing several new ingredients in their diet.\n\nAs with most Asian cultures, the culinary heritage can find its root in either Persian, Indian, or Chinese cuisine. In fact the food structure of Persian-Arabian civilization began with cooking techniques innovated in ancient Persia and carried forward by Persians during the Sassanid Dynasty. With subsequent development and growth of the Ottomans (Turkish empire), Arab culture came in contact with the Ottoman empire; Turkish contributions to the Arabian culture included \"kebabs\", which were originally part of the cuisine of the early Persians, but were heavily favored by the Turks.\n\nThis multicultural inclusion in part, became possible, after advent of Islam, and with the growth of Arabian influence after invasion of Persia, Balkans, and North Africa, making it possible for merchants of different nations to travel long distances coming into contact and being influenced by or influencing local cuisines they encountered. The exchange of customs and food was bidirectional, with Arabs also exporting their dietary preferences such as dates, figs, and lamb to the areas they traveled to or conquered including the Persian empire and the Turkish population of Balkan. This interchange of goods and ways of life, was significant in forming the current modern Arab diet. Arabs later on transferred these newly gained cuisines on their conquests to Africa, and as far as North Africa, West Africa, and South of Spain. In fact, certain Spanish desserts such as polvorones, tocino de cielo (custard and caramel) and yemas de San Leandro (marzipan based) are heavily influenced by the Moors. Though these influences were not carried out by the original Arabs of the Arabian sub-continent, their west ward expansion into Egypt, and Morocco led to dissemination of Chinese, Indian, Arabian, and Persian cuisines and eventually their vicarious adoption by the North Africans.\n\nArab cuisine of the Persian Gulf today is the result of combination of diverse cuisines, incorporating Persian, Indian, Lebanese and Chinese cooking styles, and many items not originally indigenous to the Persian Gulf region, which were most probably imported on the dhows and the caravans. In addition, the cuisine is heavily dosed with spices, from hot sauces to every variety of pepper, to tea. This cuisine also favors vegetables such as cucumbers, eggplants, and onions, and fruits (primarily citrus). Notably, many of the same spices used in eastern Arabia cuisine are also those emphasized in the Indian cuisine. This is a result of heavy trading between the two regions, and of the current state of affairs in the wealthy oil states, in which many South Asian workers are living abroad in Arab states of the Persian Gulf.\n\n\nEssential to any cooking in eastern Arabia is the concept of hospitality. Meals are sometimes family affairs, with much sharing and a great deal of warmth over the dinner table. Formal dinners and celebrations generally entail large quantities of food, and every occasion entails large quantities of coffee.\n\nThere are many regional differences in Arab cuisine. For instance mujadara in Syria or Lebanon is different from mujadara in Jordan or Palestine. Some dishes such as mensaf (the national dish of Jordan) are native to certain countries and rarely if ever make an appearance in other countries.\n\nUnlike in most Western cuisines, cinnamon is used in meat dishes as well as in sweets such as Baklava. Other desserts include variations of rice pudding and fried dough. Ground nut mixtures are common fillings for such treats. Saffron is used in everything, from sweets, to rice, to beverages. Fruit juices are quite popular in this often arid region.\n\nIn addition to Arab cuisine, the following cuisines have influenced, or have been influenced by the Arab cuisine of the Persian Gulf, either due to trade (mostly maritime from the far east), or as a result of ancient contact:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4039684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4039684", "title": "Außerparlamentarische Opposition", "text": "Außerparlamentarische Opposition\n\nThe Außerparlamentarische Opposition (German for \"extra-parliamentary opposition\", commonly known as the APO), was a political protest movement in West Germany during the latter half of the 1960s and early 1970s, forming a central part of the German student movement. Its membership consisted mostly of young people disillusioned with the grand coalition (\"Große Koalition\") of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) and the Christian Democratic Union (CDU). Since the coalition controlled 95 percent of the Bundestag, the APO provided a more effective outlet for student dissent. Its most prominent member and unofficial spokesman was Rudi Dutschke.\n\nAs opposed to APO, there was also opposition from other parties that, although they are represented in parliament, do not participate in the formation of the government. Small parties receive too few votes in an election to reenter the parliament. For example, in the past the Free Democratic Party (FDP) has often not been represented in Länderparlamente (federal state governments), but they are not classified as APO.\n\nAPO in Germany called primarily for the constitutional freedom of opinion, the press and assembly to convey its demands publicly. New political currents usually begin outside the parliament and usually creep over the Länderparlamente into the German Bundestag (federal parliament) or even into the Bundesregierung Deutschlands (the German federal government). For example, the Green Party entered into a coalition with the SPD (the social democratic party in Germany) in 1998, it remained in government until 2005.\n\nThe student movement began to gain strength and momentum in the middle of the 1960s in West Germany. The student movement is often used synonymously with APO, since it was at the time the most prominent form of extraparliamentary opposition in Germany. The student movement reached its peak in 1967 and 1968, especially in towns with universities. The most cited form of student-led APO was headed by the Sozialistischer Deutscher Studentenbund (the socialist German student group).\n\nThe APO was formed through the opposition mounting against the \"grand coalition\" government in power since 1966, which united the CDU and the SPD under the Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger (CDU) and its proposed German Emergency Acts (emergency laws), which would maximise governmental control in case of a public dispute, allowing them to restrict civil rights such as privacy and freedom of movement. With 49 seats in parliament, the FDP was the only opposing party in the parliament at the ime; the rest were in extraparliamentary opposition. This weakened the opposition, the Bundestag strengthened the APO in Germany.\n\nThe APO demanded a democratization of university politics. A motto of the student movement protesting against the old-fashioned nature of higher education institutions was \"Unter den Talaren – Muff von 1000 Jahren\" (\"under the university gowns, the musty smell of a thousand years\"), which also referred to Hitler, who had called his regime a rule for a thousand years.\n\nThe APO criticised society's repression of the crimes of National Socialism through its parents' generation, only interested in economic recovery. Thus, it joined worldwide protests against the Vietnam War and showed solidarity with the guerrilla fighters campaigning in North Vietnam against the actions of the USA. Among other protagonists, the movement idolised Cuban guerilla fighter Che Guevara and the founder of the Vietnamese Communist Party Ho Chi Minh. \"Ho-Ho-Ho-Chi-Minh\" was often chanted at demonstrations towards the end of the 1960s.\n\nSoon student movement took part in discussions about society and made idlely criticised society, demanding fundamental changes in society towards a socialist revolutionary ideal. New forms of communal life were tried, as well as new forms of protests and political actions. In particular, life in the Kommune I (Commune 1) had begun, spurred on by the words of Fritz Teufel, Dieter Kunzelmann and Rainer Langhans. Its members were often prosecuted, which caused a platform for further protests.\n\nThe APO also found support and theoretical guidance from intellectuals and philosophers such as Ernst Bloch, Theodor W. Adorno, Herbert Marcuse and Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nOn the whole, the West German APO consisted of young people, mostly students, who could hardly gain a foothold in workforce. A few analysts of the time, such as Jutta Ditfurth, spoke out against these assumptions and embraced the workforce, including them in the political movement.\n\nIn France, the case was somewhat different. Their solidarity was found between the unions and the student activists, which led to a near-revolutionary situation and much disruption, street fighting and mass strikes in May 1968, culminating in a state crisis. One of the protagonists of the German and French APO, activist and later Green Party politician Daniel Cohn-Bendit was refused reentry into France on the initiative of president Charles de Gaulle. Further members of the APO were Joseph \"Joschka\" Fischer (German foreign minister from 1998–2005) and Matthias Beltz, who became a famous kabarettist in the 1980s and the 1990s.\n\nA watershed in the history of the West German APO commenced on June 2, 1967 during demonstrations against the official visit of the Iranian Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi when student Benno Ohnesorg was shot by a policeman. Ohnesorg was attending his first-ever political demonstration, and his death left his pregnant girlfriend to fend for herself. The student movement radicalised itself, became more militant and focused its attention on the Springer Press, namely the \"Bild Zeitung\" (the German equivalent of the British publication \"The Sun\"), which greatly opposed the student movement to the general public. \n\nLess than a year after the death of Benno Ohnesorg, a young worker named Josef Bachmann attempted to assassinate Rudi Dutschke, one of the most prominent leaders of the student movement; Bachmann shot Dutschke three times at close range, hitting him once in the head. Dutschke suffered health problems from the shooting for the rest of his life, including an epileptic condition that caused his death by an accidental drowning in 1979. \n\nAfter 1969, the APO, in its then-current form, played no further role in West Germany, although there was further extraparliamentary opposition. New social movements in the 1970s affected political and social areas, which had already been addressed in part by the student movement. Environmental protection and nuclear power became the latest themes focused on by former APO activists.\n\nThe APO disbanded itself in 1968, dividing into smaller communist groups known as K-Gruppen, which remained on the political landscape but had no notable influence on West German politics.\n\nThe \"Marsch durch die Institutionen\" (march through the institutions) propagated by Rudi Dutschke was embarked upon, resulting in the formation of the Green Party 11 years later. The idea behind this march was that political structures could be manipulated only from within, so it made more sense for larger groups to disband and for individuals and smaller groups to work more or less independently in their local areas to change the political system of their federal republic. The Green Party was formed to organize and accommodate the anti-nuclear movement in Germany, the peace movement activists and other new social movements in the 1970s and 1980s, whose founders had previously been very active in the APO.\n\nIn 1983, the German Green Party was elected into the Bundestag, where it stood for the concept of movement and change, so that its roots and philosophy were seen in new social movements. Within only a few years, the Greens gained much political power and prestige. In the time following the party's founding, there was a divide between the fundamentalists and the realists, which still exists. It was the willingness of the Greens to compromise and adapt that has led to their increased political power. In particular, since they entered into a coalition government with the SPD in 1998 and supported issues targeted by the APO which were in the eyes of many underrepresented such as participation in the Kosovo War in 1999 and the Afghan War in 2002.\n\nA small number of APO activists such as Andreas Baader, Gudrun Ensslin, journalist Ulrike Meinhof resorted to arson in department stores and illegal underground work. They collaborated in the \"Rote Armee Fraktion\" (RAF) that was commonly known as the \"bewaffneten Widerstand\" (armed opposition). Bank robberies, kidnappings and even murders were committed against protagonists of businesses, politics and justice by the RAF, the \"Bewegung 2. Juni\" (Movement of the 2nd June) and the \"Revolutionären Zellen\" (Revolutionary Cells) until the 1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "3368652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3368652", "title": "Balkan Gagauz Turkish", "text": "Balkan Gagauz Turkish\n\nBalkan Gagauz Turkish, also known as Balkan Turkic, is a Turkic language spoken in European Turkey, in Dulovo and the Deliorman area in Bulgaria, and in the Kumanovo and Bitola areas of the Republic of Macedonia. Dialects include Gajal, Gerlovo Turk, Karamanli, Kyzylbash, Surguch, Tozluk Turk, Yuruk, and Macedonian Gagauz. Although it is mutually intelligible with both Gagauz and Turkish to a considerable degree, it is usually classified as a separate language due to foreign influences from neighboring languages spoken in the Balkans.\n"}
{"id": "34774421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34774421", "title": "Bold hypothesis", "text": "Bold hypothesis\n\nBold hypothesis (or \"bold conjecture\") is a concept in the philosophy of science of Karl Popper, first explained in his debut \"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\" (1935) and subsequently elaborated in writings such as \"Conjectures and Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge\" (1963). The concept is nowadays widely used in the philosophy of science and in the philosophy of knowledge. It is also used in the social and behavioural sciences.\n\nPopper's argument is that the growth of scientific knowledge progresses by means of formulating \"bold\" hypotheses, and trying to refute (disprove or falsify) them. Popper believed that:\n\nHe makes this point more specific in a 1953 lecture, where he argues that, if we aim to explain the world, then:\n\nA \"bold\" hypothesis is a new scientific idea which, if it was true, would be able to predict and/or explain a lot, or a lot more, about the subject being theorized about. The \"boldness\" of a hypothesis depends mainly on:\nOnce a bold hypothesis has been mooted, Popper argues, scientists try to investigate and test how well the bold hypothesis can stand up to the known evidence, with the aim of finding counter-arguments which would refute or falsify the bold hypothesis. In this process of testing and criticism, new scientific knowledge is generated. Even if the bold hypothesis turns out to have been wrong, testing it generates new knowledge about what can and cannot be the case. Often it stimulates new research.\n\nInversely, if a hypothesis lacks the quality of boldness, then it would make very little difference to what scientists already know. It is not \"a big deal\", i.e. it is not very significant for the theory which exists already. It can contribute rather little to advancing scientific progress, because it does not expand or add to scientific understanding very much.\n\nAccording to Popper,\nIn Popper's philosophy of science, scientific statements are always provisional, they have limits of application, and they could always be wrong. If a statement cannot even in principle be proved wrong, it cannot be a scientific statement. Thus, in Popper's eyes, the falsifiability criterion clearly demarcates \"science\" from \"non-science\". This Popperian idea has been very controversial, however. The reason is that it can be quite difficult to test scientifically how true a particular idea is. Even if scientists do \"want\" to test an idea, they may not know yet \"how\" exactly to test it conclusively. Yet, scientists also don't want to abandon a hunch that seems useful, simply because they don't know how to verify it yet. This point is especially important for \"bold\" new hypotheses, because the very \"boldness\" of the new hypothesis could mean that it would take a lot of work before adequate tests could be designed.\n\nSome philosophers have argued that, in the real world, scientists operate routinely with at least some metaphysical beliefs for which they have no proof or verification whatsoever. According to Paul Feyerabend, the creative processes that lead to a scientific discovery are usually quite reasonable and non-arbitrary. However, the creative processes are by no means fully \"rational\", and they can be quite unique. Thus, the idea that there is one standard model which can define the rationality of all scientific methods should be rejected.\n\nIn one of his later writings, \"Objective Knowledge\" (1972), Popper argued that:\n\nThis interpretation was criticized by Adolf Grünbaum.\n\nPopper’s idea of the role of bold hypotheses in scientific progress has attracted three main kinds of criticisms.\n\nDespite these important criticisms, Popper's concept of bold hypotheses continues to be widely used in the academic world. One reason is that, at some level, the concept does make sense, even if (arguably) Popper himself failed to define its role in scientific research very well. Another reason is that academic progress always requires that a scholar does something genuinely new and \"breaks new ground\". If a scholar only concerns himself with tiny, uncontroversial and fairly trivial claims, he is unlikely to be rewarded very much for his effort. Plausible and credible bold hypotheses are highly valued in the academic world, so long as they are reasonably consistent with well-established scientific findings, and do not seriously challenge scientific authority. \n\nIn the business community, too, innovation is very important, to find new ways to reduce costs, increase sales, and increase profits. A bold new idea can be worth a lot of money, and therefore, business people are often sympathetic to bold attempts to reframe what is known already and to create new ideas; without such innovations, they would eventually be defeated by competitors who have a better idea. So the idea of a bold hypothesis also continues to have a place in economics, management theory and business administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "20509021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20509021", "title": "Bulgarian Canadians", "text": "Bulgarian Canadians\n\nBulgarian Canadians (, \"kanadski balgari\") are Canadian citizens or residents from Bulgaria or people of Bulgarian descent. According to the 2011 Census there were 30,485 Canadians who claimed Bulgarian ancestry, an increase compared to the 27,260 of the 2006 Census.\n\nMass Bulgarian emigration to Canada began in the late 1890s and the early 20th century. Bulgarians primarily settled in Canada's industrial cities, mostly Toronto, Ontario, which was a major centre of Bulgarian migration to North America. Between 1900 and 1944, 19,955 people from Bulgaria settled in Canada; however, this number excludes the mass Bulgarian migration from Ottoman and later Serbian and Greek-ruled Macedonia, Dobruja, southern Thrace, the Western Outlands and Bessarabia, which was indeed the bulk of Bulgarian emigration to Canada. The largest wave of migration from the Kingdom of Bulgaria to Canada was in 1912, when 6,388 people arrived in that country. Other significant waves were those of 1914, consisting of 4,512 people, and 1907–09, which numbered 2,529.\n\nThe Canadian Census of 1921 recorded 1,765 people who identified as Bulgarians; of those, 1,378 lived in Ontario. In 1931, self-identified Bulgarians were 3,160 (2,415 in Ontario), while in 1941 they numbered 3,260 (2,553 in Ontario). Other estimates, however, list 10,000 Bulgarians in Canada by 1913, of which 4,000 in Toronto alone, and 20,000 Bulgarians in Canada by 1939. The Bulgarian colony in Toronto mostly consisted of emigrants from Macedonia and the Kostur (Kastoria) region in particular. According to Bulgarian diplomatic and ecclesiastical records of 1936, Bulgarians in Toronto alone numbered 3,500, while other estimates go up to 5,000.\n\nThe Bulgarian community in Canada is deeply linked to the Macedonian Canadians. Until World War II, most people who today identify as Macedonian Canadians claimed a Bulgarian ethnic identity and were recorded as part of the Bulgarian ethnic group. In the 1980s and 1990s, the Bulgarian community in Canada spread in larger numbers to the capital Ottawa, Ontario, Vancouver, British Columbia and Montreal, Quebec.\n\nThe first organization of Bulgarians in Canada, the Zhelevo Bulgarian Brotherhood or Zhelevo Benevolence Brotherhood was established in 1907 in Toronto by emigrants from Zhelevo (Antartiko) in Aegean Macedonia. Other Bulgarian organizations were soon established by emigrants from Zagorichani (Vassiliada), Oshtima (Trigono), Smardesh (Krystallopigi), Gabresh (Gavros), Banitsa (Vevi), Buf (Akritas) and Tarsie (Trivuno), all villages in Aegean Macedonia. Bulgarian emigrants from Murgash near Tsaribrod and Bansko also established emigrant organizations. Most such communities were founded in Toronto, though some were based in other Ontario towns like Kitchener, Windsor and Courtland.\n\nThe foundations of the Bulgarian Orthodox community in Canada were laid down in 1908 with the first Bulgarian ecclesiastical mission in North America. The priests Hristo Karabashev and hieromonk Theophylactus, who first visited the United States, arrived in Toronto in 1910 and established what is today the Sts. Cyril and Methodius Macedono-Bulgarian Orthodox Parish, which until 1945 remained the only such community in Canada.\n\nA Bulgarian school, funded by the Bulgarian Orthodox community, was founded in Toronto as early as 1914: this was also the first Bulgarian school in the Americas. In 1924, this school had 70 pupils and two teachers. By 1928, the number of pupils was 100. Bulgarian adult schools were established by two separate organizations in 1917 and 1920, also in Toronto. Another school for children was founded in Toronto in 1934; Bulgarian schools were also established in Kitchener and Windsor in 1932 and 1936 respectively.\n\nSome Bulgarian Canadians speak Bulgarian, especially the more recent immigrants, while others might not speak the language at all, or speak Bulgarian mixed with English to a lesser or greater extent. Some Bulgarian Canadians understand Bulgarian even though they might not be able to speak the language. There are cases where older generations of Bulgarians or descendants of Bulgarian immigrants from the early part of the 20th century are fluent in the Bulgarian language as well.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33143621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33143621", "title": "Catholic Burgher Union", "text": "Catholic Burgher Union\n\nThe Catholic Burgher Union is an organisation of Portuguese Burghers (persons of mixed Portuguese and Sri Lankan descent) in the town of Batticaloa, Sri Lanka. In the modern era, the Union played a strong role in the preservation of the Portuguese Burgher culture, despite their economically disadvantaged position.\n\nResearchers in the 1960s noted that the meetings of the Union were still held in Portuguese, with the exception of the minutes, as they were read from written records, and Sri Lankan Portuguese was not used as a written language. In the 1980s, despite Burger immigration to Australia, the Union still numbered some 2,000 speakers of Sri Lankan Portuguese, making them the largest community still speaking the dialect. The Union continued to maintain Portuguese Burgher traditions, including promoting traditional music and dance, By the 2000s (decade), however, the Union was described as struggling financially to be able to produce its English newsletter, with Portuguese extracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "660618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660618", "title": "Chinese Peruvians", "text": "Chinese Peruvians\n\nChinese Peruvians, also known as tusán (a loanword from ), are members of a Peruvian ethnic group whose ancestors came from Guangdong Province in China. They are people of overseas Chinese ancestry born in Peru, or who have made Peru their adopted homeland.\n\nMost Chinese Peruvians are multilingual. In addition to Spanish or Quechua, many of them speak one or more varieties of Chinese that may include Mandarin, Cantonese, Hakka and Minnan (Hokkien). Since the first Chinese immigrants came from Macau, and the southern region of the province, some of them also speak Portuguese.\n\nOutside of the predominant Amerindian, mestizo, and white populations, black, Japanese, Chinese and others are estimated to constitute 3% of the Peruvian population. Other sources estimate that the population of Peruvians with Chinese ancestry is as high as 20% when people of mixed heritage are included in the statistics.\n\nAsian coolies who were shipped from the Spanish Philippines to Acapulco via the Manila-Acapulco galleons were all called \"Chino\" (\"Chinese\"), although in reality they were not only from China but also other places, including what are today the Philippines itself, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, East Timor, and further afield such as India and Sri Lanka. Filipinos made up most of their population. The people in this community of diverse Asians in Mexico were called \"los indios chinos\" by the Spanish. Most of these workers were male and were obtained from Portuguese traders, who obtained them from Portuguese colonial possessions and outposts of the Estado da India, which included parts of India, Bengal, Malacca, Indonesia, Nagasaki in Japan, and Macau. Spain received some of these coolies from Mexico, where owning a \"Chino\" coolie showed high status. Records of three Japanese coolies dating from the 16th century, named Gaspar Fernandes, Miguel and Ventura who ended up in Mexico showed that they were purchased by Portuguese slave traders in Japan, brought to Manila from where they were shipped to Mexico by their owner Perez. Some of these Asian slaves were also brought to Lima in Peru, where it was recorded that in 1613 there was a small community of Asians, consisting of Chinese, Japanese, Filipinos, Malays, Cambodians and others.\n\nChinese immigrants, who in the 19th century took a four-month trip from Macau (then a Portuguese territory), settled as contract laborers or coolies. Other Chinese coolies from Guangdong followed.\n\nOne hundred thousand Chinese contract laborers, 95% of which were Cantonese and almost all of which were male, were sent mostly to the sugar plantations from 1849 to 1874, during the termination of slavery. They were to provide continuous labor for the coastal guano mines and especially for the coastal plantations where they became a major labor force (contributing greatly to the Peruvian guano boom) until the end of the century. While the coolies were believed to be reduced to virtual slaves, they also represented a historical transition from slave to free labor. A third group of Chinese workers was contracted for the construction of the railway from Lima to La Oroya and Huancayo. Chinese migrants were barred from using cemeteries reserved for Roman Catholics, and were instead buried at pre-Incan burial sites.\n\nIn Peru non-Chinese women married the mostly male Chinese coolies. There were almost no women among the nearly entirely male Chinese coolie population that migrated to Peru and Cuba. Peruvian women were married to these Chinese male migrants. African women particularly had mostly no intercourse with Chinese men during their labor as coolies, while Chinese had contact with Peruvian women in cities; there they formed relationships and sired mixed babies. These women originated from Andean and coastal areas and did not originally come from the cities; in the haciendas on the coast in rural areas, native young women of \"indígenas\" (\"native\") and \"serranas\" (\"mountain\") origin from the Andes mountains would come down to work. These Andean native women were favored over Africans as marital partners by Chinese men, with matchmakers arranging for communal marriages of Chinese men to young \"indígenas\" and \"serranas\". There was a racist reaction by Peruvians to the marriages of Peruvian women and Chinese men. When native Peruvian women (\"cholas et natives\", \"Indias\", \"indígenas\") and Chinese men had mixed children, the children were called \"injerto\"; once these \"injertos\" emerged, Chinese men sought out girls of \"injerta\" origin as marriage partners. Children born to black mothers were not called \"injertos\". Peruvians of low class established sexual unions or marriages with the Chinese men, and some black and Indian women \"bred\" with the Chinese according to Alfredo Sachettí, who claimed the mixing was causing the Chinese to suffer from \"progressive degeneration\". In Casa Grande, highland Indian women and Chinese men participated in communal \"mass marriages\" with each other, arranged when highland women were brought by a Chinese matchmaker after receiving a down payment.\n\nIn Peru and Cuba, some Indian (Native American), mulatto, black, and white women engaged in carnal relations or marriages with Chinese men, with marriages of mulatto, black, and white woman being reported by the Cuba Commission Report. In Peru, it was reported by \"The New York Times\" that Peruvian black and Indian (Native) women married Chinese men to their own advantage and to the disadvantage of the men since they dominated and \"subjugated\" the Chinese men despite the fact that the labor contract was annulled by the marriage, reversing the roles in marriage with the Peruvian woman holding marital power, ruling the family and making the Chinese men slavish, docile, \"servile\", \"submissive\" and \"feminine\" and commanding them around, reporting that \"Now and then...he [the Chinese man] becomes enamored of the charms of some sombre-hued chola (Native Indian and mestiza woman) or samba (mixed black woman), and is converted and joins the Church, so that may enter the bonds of wedlock with the dusky señorita.\" Chinese men were sought out as husbands and considered a \"catch\" by the \"dusky damsels\" (Peruvian women) because they were viewed as a \"model husband, hard-working, affectionate, faithful and obedient\" and \"handy to have in the house\", the Peruvian women became the \"better half\" instead of the \"weaker vessel\" and would command their Chinese husbands \"around in fine style\" instead of treating them equally, while the labor contract of the Chinese coolie would be nullified by the marriage, the Peruvian wife viewed the nullification merely as the previous \"master\" handing over authority over the Chinese man to her as she became his \"mistress\", keeping him in \"servitude\" to her, speedily ending any complaints and suppositions by the Chinese men that they would have any power in the marriage.\n\nAnother group of Chinese settlers came after the founding of Sun Yat-sen's republic in 1912, and another after the establishment of Communist rule in 1949.\n\nIn 1957, Cantonese speakers constituted 85 per cent of the total Chinese immigrant population, the rest of whom were Hakka speakers.\n\nRecent Chinese immigrants settled in Peru from Hong Kong and Macau in 1997 and 1999, owing to fear of those territories returning to Communist rule, while others have come from other places in mainland China, Taiwan, and southeast Asian Chinese communities, including those of Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and the Philippines. Many Chinese Indonesians came to Peru after anti-Chinese riots and massacres in those countries in the 1960s, 1970s, and late 1990s. These recent Chinese immigrants make Peru currently the home of the largest ethnically Chinese community in Latin America.\n\nMany Chinese Peruvians left Peru in the 1960s and 1970s. Most of them headed to the United States, where they were called Chinese Americans or Peruvian Americans of Chinese descent, while others went to Canada, Spain, mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Australia, or New Zealand.\n\nAfter their contracts ended, many of them adopted the last name of their patrons (one of the reasons that many Chinese Peruvians carry Spanish last names). Some freed coolies (and later immigrants) established many small businesses. These included \"chifas\" (Chinese-Peruvian restaurants - the word is derived from Cantonese 吃飯 (Jyutping:ci3 faan6) which means \"to eat rice or to have a meal\"). Calle Capón, Lima's Chinatown, also known as Barrio Chino de Lima, became one of the Western Hemisphere's earliest Chinatowns. The Chinese coolies married Peruvian women, and many Chinese Peruvians today are of mixed Chinese, Spanish, African or Native American descent. Chinese Peruvians also assisted in the building of railroad and development of the Amazon Rainforest, where they tapped rubber trees, washed gold, cultivated rice, and traded with the natives. They even became the largest foreign colony in the Amazon capital of Iquitos by the end of the century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53428986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53428986", "title": "Chu language", "text": "Chu language\n\nThe Chu language is an attested language spoken during the Chu state of China, and is believed to be the base precursor to Xiang Chinese, a dialect spoken in Hunan. The Chu had its own characters modeled on Zhou dynasty Chinese characters. \n"}
{"id": "34775207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34775207", "title": "Citizen's Charter and Grievance Redressal Bill 2011", "text": "Citizen's Charter and Grievance Redressal Bill 2011\n\nThe Citizen's Charter and Grievance Redressal Bill 2011 also known as The Right of Citizens for Time Bound Delivery of Goods and Services and Redressal of their Grievances Bill, 2011 or Citizens Charter Bill was proposed by Indian central legislation. It was tabled by V. Narayanasamy, Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, in Lok Sabha in December 2011. The bill lapsed due to dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha.\n\nThe Bill seeks to confer on every citizen the right to time-bound delivery of specified goods and services and to provide a mechanism for Grievance Redressal. The Bill makes it mandatory for every public authority to publish a Citizen's Charter within six months of the commencement of the Act, failing which the official concerned would face action, including a fine of up to Rs. 50,000 from his salary and disciplinary proceedings.\n\nThe bill came after Anna Hazare asked for its provisions to be included in the Jan Lokpal Bill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44680623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44680623", "title": "Civicus", "text": "Civicus\n\nCIVICUS is an international non-profit organisation, which describes itself as “a global alliance dedicated to strengthening citizen action and civil society around the world. Founded in 1993, the organisation today has members in more than 145 countries, with its headquarters in Johannesburg and offices in London, Geneva and New York.\n\nIn 1991, an international group of 20 leaders from Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and social movements met to explore how to support citizen participation in governmental decision-making processes. This process culminated in 1993 when a founding board established CIVICUS from the Latin term meaning \"of the community\".\n\nThe organisation works to protect and grow civic space where people can express and organise themselves. In particular, the organisation focuses on regions where participatory democracy and freedom of association are at risk. CIVICUS counts among its central values: Justice and Equality, where all people are free to exercise their rights as citizens as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn service of its mission and values, the organisation’s primary areas of activity are: \n\nCIVICUS has approximately 30 members of staff and is led by Dr Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah, who became Secretary General in January 2013. The governing body of CIVICUS is an International Board of 13 civil society leaders from 13 countries.\n\n\nRevenue to support the operations of CIVICUS is derived from multiple sources, including institutional funders, individual contributions, membership fees, and registration fees for the CIVICUS World Assembly. The aggregated income for 2013/2014 was roughly $3.5 million USD with notable contributions from SIDA, Department of Foreign Affairs (Ireland), Freedom House and the European Commission.\n\nSince its establishment in 1993, CIVICUS has built successively on its core programmatic activities:\n"}
{"id": "41680785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41680785", "title": "Data Privacy Lab", "text": "Data Privacy Lab\n\nData Privacy Lab is a program dedicated to teaching and research in all areas related to privacy technology. The Data Privacy Lab in Harvard University is operating in the Institute for Quantitative Social Science (IQSS). Latanya Sweeney founded the Lab and continues as its Director. The program was first started in 2001 at Carnegie Mellon University in the Heinz College and in 2002, moved to the School of Computer Science, where it operated until 2011 before moving to Harvard. The University of North Carolina at Charlotte is also running a Data Privacy Lab program and it is functioning in the College of Computing and Informatics.\n\nSome of the projects currently underway in the Data Privacy Lab at Harvard School are related to re-identification, discrimination in online ads, privacy-enhanced linking, fingerprint capture, genomic privacy and complex-care patients. The Data Privacy Lab at The University of North Carolina at Charlotte conducts research in various areas like privacy preserving data mining, privacy issues in social networks, privacy aware database generation for software testing and privacy and anonymity in data integration and dissemination.\n"}
{"id": "338908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338908", "title": "Dating Do's and Don'ts", "text": "Dating Do's and Don'ts\n\nDating Do's and Don'ts is a 1949 instructional film designed for American high schools, to teach adolescents basic dating skills, produced by Coronet Instructional Films and directed by Gilbert Altschul with the assistance of Reuben Hill, Research Professor of Family Life at the University of North Carolina. In this film, the boy is the sole initiator of any contact with the girl, and all arrangements are made under the warm supervision of the family, particularly a mother who is a matriarchal housewife. This film, as many of the other educational shorts of the post World War II era, denotes the traditional socially conservative values that were common in the early to mid 20th century. His mother, as the film was released in the late 1940s, was raised during the end of the Victorian Era, in the 1910s or 1920s decade, supposing she is middle aged, where the custom of \"courtship\" was commonplace and is new to the \"dating\" concept, but she accepted it.\n\nThe film is one of many public domain films in the Prelinger archives.\n\nThere is a similarly named but unrelated Looney Tunes webtoon.\n\nThe film follows a young adolescent boy, Woody, who receives tickets for \"one couple\" to the Hi Teen Carnival. At different stages, the film offers options on how Woody might respond to various situations:\nThe film then shows three options, for each opportunity, ending with what it deems the most successful. This allows the filmmakers to create an idealized scenario for a perfect first date. Woody is cautioned not to ask a girl out based on her looks as she could be aloof or boring. Instead he should ask a girl who is \"fun\". He is similarly told to be straightforward and not to insist that his potential date give up some other activity for him. Finally, the film depicts the perceived danger of immediately kissing the girl good night, or of just leaving her at her door, and instead urges the viewers to say a friendly goodbye, ending with a promise to call next week.\n\nAs Woody prepares for his date with Anne, he receives hints from his older brother, who is already an expert at dating; for instance, Woody's brother tells Woody to act like his \"natural, talkative self\" while on the phone, and says that Woody does not have to bring Anne flowers on her first date. He also convinces their mother to allow Woody to go on his first date even though he is young, with her adding that it would be acceptable provided that Woody only dates on weekends and comes home at a reasonable hour. As Woody prepares for his date, his mother and father reflect on their own first dates to remind Woody how important it is for him to show up on time. His mother adds that any girl who is not ready for him on time is not worthy of going out with \"my boy\".\n\nThe film ends with Woody leaving the door outside Anne's home, whistling happily as he contemplates his next date.\n\nA Looney Tunes webtoon, titled \"Dating Do's and Don'ts: How to Be a \"Mr. Good-Date\"\", starred Bugs Bunny and, for the first and only time in a Looney Tunes short, Lola Bunny. The cartoon begins in black-and-white with a narrator telling the audience how to be a \"Mr. Gooddate,\" the way Reggie Gerandevu (Bugs Bunny) does it. Bugs calls Lola (who doesn't have any quotes in dialogue and responds only by giggling) and asks if she wants go out that night for carrot juice. Lola giggles in agreement, which makes Bugs break the fourth wall by saying that she is a good conversationalist. After Bugs hangs up, Lola gets ready for the date, but her disapproving dad has overheard the phone call. Meanwhile, Bugs is trying to get to Lola's house but can't tell if her address number is an eight or a three. The narrator says it's a three and also says there's a perfect shortcut. Bugs thanks the narrator, but he doesn't know that the narrator is actually Lola's dad, trying to lure him away from Lola. The hapless Bugs does not know that has been directed to Elmer Fudd's house. Elmer, peeking out the window, tells Bugs to go away. Bugs goes over the fence, triggering Elmer's alarm system. A robotic hand picks Bugs up and a robotic shoe kicks him out and he falls onto the street, making him hope that the Warner Bros. Medical Plant cures him. Elmer praises the success of his alarm. Then, Bugs enters his house, dressed up as a scientist saying he's here to recalibrate Elmer's alarm system. Bugs triggers the alarm system to hurt and toss Elmer around until finally Bugs adjusts the system to \"GOOOAAAL!\" which makes Elmer get kicked into space. At Lola's house, Lola's dad says he gave it \"the old college try\". But then Bugs spots Lola in her room. Bugs gets in her room by using a pole vault. However she is gone. Bugs finds a note reading \"Gone to France, so long sucker. - Lola's Dad\". Meanwhile, Lola and her dad are sitting at a table in a French restaurant. Pepé Le Pew brings in a serving dish. He removes the lid, to reveal Bugs. An excited Lola kisses Bugs. Lola's dad is steaming about this. Bugs pulls out the remote to Elmer's alarm system, adjusting it to \"Heads Up!\", which makes Elmer get punched back to Earth and land right on top of Lola's dad. Lola then kisses Bugs multiple times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1578521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578521", "title": "Dawar (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Dawar (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Dāwaṛ (), also Daur or Dawari, are a Karlani Pashtun tribe mostly inhabiting the North Waziristan Agency located in the semi-autonomous Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. The Dawaris inhabit the Tochi Valley and are a homogeneous tribe of considerable size. The Dawar speak the Waziristani dialect (Dawari) of Pashto.\n\nThe Dawars originally lived in the Shawal area, which lies partly in the present-day North Waziristan tribal agency of Pakistan and partly in the Paktika Province of Afghanistan. The Dawars are descended from the Shitak supertribe of the Pashtuns. Both the Dawars and their cousin tribe the Bannuchis descend from the Shitaks. In the 14th century, the Wazirs another Pashtun tribe, who were living in Birmal in the west, migrated eastwards to the Shawal area and fell into dispute with the Shitaks (Dawars and Bannuchis), and succeeded to oust the Shitaks northeastwards. Eventually, the Dawari Shitaks settled in the Tochi Valley in the modern-day North Wazisitan. At the beginning of the twentieth century the tribe had some 5,200 fighting men.\n\nDawari, or usually Alizai along with Waziris and other pashtun tribes upraises caused in southern and south west zone deteriorating of Kabul government and revolutions in the country, in Abdalee (Durrani) Empire they had the most powerful participation in their success and army contribution. Their location along the fertile land meant they were prone to fevers and other ravaging diseases that are bred in the wet sodden lands of the Tochi Valley, lying at the bottom of a deep depression exposed to the burning rays of the sun. The effects of these ailments may be clearly traced in the drawn or bloated features and the shrunken or swollen limbs of nearly every Dawari that has passed middle life. Mostly they have been at war in the past with their neighbouring Wazir tribe, mostly over land and blood feuds.\n\nThe Britishers are now in Alizai's area in Helmand managing their operations against the people who obliged them to escape from Musa Qala for almost 15 months and after coordination of the world with much expenses they succeeded to capture a 100 square meters of the area along and living there facing much obstacles and waiting for signing an agreement with them but people are not ready because of their corporal and material losses.\n\nAlthough they are surrounded on all four sides by a Waziri population they bear little resemblance to the Waziris. They are an agricultural people whilst the Waziris are a pastoral race, and they are much richer than their neighbours. They thrive on a rich sedimentary soil copiously irrigated in the midst of a country where cultivable land of any kind is scarce and water in general hardly to be obtained.\n\nDawari: A previous romantic and historical place named Zamindawar located in northern side of Helmand province between Kajaki and Musa Qala Districts, previously named by 360 Kariz (Shah Kariz) totally covered by Alizai tribe.\nDue to its name most of the local people are called Dawari who have very special morals and specialities from other places, Including its thousands years remnant historical signs Zamindawar has an old city (Deh-e-Baba) (Zoor Shaar) which was the empire capital in the eras of Ghori, Sori and other empires because of its fresh weather, tasty fruits, and natural scenery which attracts the attention of the sightseers and excursionists which is still remnant on its old, as well as today's bashfulness, ambitions and bravery of people reveal the image of its thousands years old history.\nIt should not be remnant that writing some names here representing the area like: Alhaj Mola Mohammed Naseem Akhond the Defence Minister of Mujahedin's government, Alhaj Mula Ghafaar Akhond Governor of Helmand Province, Alhaj Mola Mohammed Rasool Akhund governor of Helmand province, Mohammed Afzal khan a genius, gentle, bashful and popular tribal khan (leader), Mohammed Zahir (solamal) the former Deputy Defence Minister of Afghanistan and Abdul Rauf Benawa the most popular shining star in the sky of literature and poetry who worked as director of Pashto Cultural Society, Minister of Information and Culture (MoIC), Poet of the country's national anthum which is still alive, Mr.Abdul Karim Haqqani the Former leader of the Ulasi Jirga in Sardaar Mohammed Daud Khan's Republic Government.\nHistrorical, well known and non-forgettable hero of time Mr.Noor Mohammed Khan Alizai well known by Mir Afghan (Pashtons' Leader) who was a successful Afghan leader in Nadeer Afshaar's government and then Defence Minister in Durrani Abdali empire whose place is still laying vacant for his tribe.\n\nThe Dawars are the most educated people in the North Waziristan Agency. Today people are more educated, however Dawari people don't compromise on religion or honour, although attempts are being made to reduce gun culture. As a result, many more people are now found in every field.\n"}
{"id": "1395697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395697", "title": "Demographic history of the Vilnius region", "text": "Demographic history of the Vilnius region\n\nThe city of Vilnius, now the capital of Lithuania, and its surrounding region have at various times come under Polish-Lithuanian, Russian, Polish, German, and Soviet rule. The population has been categorised by linguistic and sometimes also religious indicators. At the end of the 19th century the main languages spoken were Polish, Lithuanian, Belarusian and Russian. Both Catholic and Orthodox Christianity were represented, while a large proportion of those within the city were Jews. The \"Lithuanian\" element was seen as declining, while the \"Slavic\" element was increasing.\n\nCensus data are available from 1897 onward, although the territorial boundaries and ethnic categorisation have not always been consistent. The Jewish population decreased greatly in the Holocaust of 1941-44, and subsequently many Poles were removed from the city, but less so from the surrounding countryside. Consequently, recent Census figures show predominance of Lithuanians in the city of Vilnius, but of Poles in the Vilnius district outside the city.\n\nSince the first contact in the 9th century the Slavic (Ruthenian, later Ukrainian) speaking areas have always bordered the vicinity of eastern contemporary Lithuania. \nAround 15 century Lithuanians completely switched to slavic languages due to surprising similarity of ancient baltics languages to slavonic .\nLithuanian language was defined as one of the dialects native Slavs. To the end of 19 century this slavic lithuanian language began to be determined as belarusian by Moscow Tsardom imperial ideologists, before this period there is no any reports the language mentioned in modern sense.\nIn 2015 Polish linguist Miroslaw Jankowiak attested that many Poles of Vilnius region still speak a form of Belarussian vernacular called \"mowa prosta\" ('simple speech') by local people. \n\nFollowing the decline of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in late 18th century, the state had been divided among its neighbours in what is known as the partitions of Poland.\n\nMost of the lands that formerly constituted the Grand Duchy of Lithuania were annexed by the Russian Empire. While initially the lands around the city of Vilna (Vilnius or Wilno) had a certain local autonomy, with local nobility holding the same offices as prior to the partitions, after several secessionist revolts against the Russian Empire, the Imperial government started to pursue a policy of both political and cultural assimilation of the newly acquired lands (Russification).\n\nFollowing the failed November Uprising all traces of former Polish-Lithuanian statehood (like the Third Statute of Lithuania and Congress Poland) started to be replaced with their Russian counterparts, from the currency and units of measurement, to offices of local administration. The failed January Uprising of 1864 further aggravated the situation, as the Russian authorities decided to pursue the policies of forcibly imposed Russification. The discrimination of local inhabitants included restrictions and bans on usage of Lithuanian (see Lithuanian press ban), Polish, Belarusian and Ukrainian (see Valuyev circular) languages. This however did not stop the Polonization effort undertaken by the Polish patriotic leadership of the Vilna educational district even within the Russian Empire.\n\nDespite that, the pre-19th-century cultural and ethnic pattern of the area was largely preserved. In the process of the pre-19th-century voluntary Polonization, much of the local nobility, boyars and gentry of Ruthenian and Lithuanian nobility origins adopted Polish language and culture. This was also true to the representatives of the then-nascent class of bourgeoisie and the Catholic and Uniate clergy. At the same time, the lower strata of the society (notably the peasants) formed a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural mixture of Lithuanians, Poles, Jews, Tatars and Ruthenians, as well as a small yet notable population of immigrants from all parts of Europe, from Italy to Scotland and from the Low Countries to Germany.\n\nDuring the rule of the Russian tsars, the Lingua franca remained Polish as it had been in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. By the middle of 17th century most of the Lithuanian nobility had started to also speak Polish. With passing time and changing circumstances Lithuanian, Ruthenian and Polish nobility merged politically and started to consider themselves to be citizens of one common state. The leader of independent Poland during the interwar period, Józef Piłsudski was an example of this phenomenon.\n\nFollowing is a list of censuses that have been taken in the city of Vilnius and its region since 1897. The list is incomplete. Data are at times fragmentary.\n\nIn 1897 the first Russian Empire Census was held. The territory covered by the tables included large parts of today's Belarus, that is the voblasts of Hrodna, Vitebsk and Minsk. Its results are currently criticised with respect to the issue of ethnic composition, because the ethnicity was defined by language spoken. In many cases the reported language of choice was defined by general background (education, occupation), rather than ethnicity. Some results are also thought as skewed due to the facts that pidgin speakers were assigned to nationalities arbitrarily and the Russian military garrisons were counted in as permanent inhabitants of the area. Some historians point out the fact that the Russification policies and persecution of ethnic minorities in Russia were added to the notion to subscribe Belarusians, Lithuanians, Ukrainians and Poles to the category of Russians.\n\nAs a result of World War I, almost all of the territory encompassing the present borders of modern Lithuania and Poland was occupied by the German Army. On 9 March 1916, the German military authorities organized a census to determine the ethnic composition of their newly conquered territories. Many Belarusian historians note that the Belarusian minority is not noted among the inhabitants of the city.\n\nA similar census was organized for all of the territory of German-occupied Lithuania and the northern border of the territory was more or less correspondent to that of present-day Lithuania, however its southern border was expanded greatly and ended near Brest-Litovsk, and included the city of Białystok.\n\nAfter the Polish-Bolshevik War and the Treaty of Riga, the eastern Polish border was largely established. In 1921 the first Polish census was held on territories under Polish control. However, Central Lithuania, seized by the forces of General Lucjan Żeligowski after a staged mutiny in 1920 was outside of the Polish borders and it was not until 22 March 1922 that the short-lived state was annexed by Poland.\n\nAs a result, the Polish census of 20 September 1921 covered only parts of the future Wilno Voivodship area, that is the communes of Brasław, Duniłowicze, Dzisna and Wilejka. The remaining part of the territory of Central Lithuania (that is the communes of Wilno, Oszmiana, Święciany and Troki) was covered by the additional census organised there in 1923. The tables on the right give the combined numbers for the area of Wilno Voivodship (\"Administrative Area of Wilno\"), taken during both the 1921 and 1923 censuses.\n\nThe 1931 Polish census was the first Polish census to measure the population of whole Wilno and Wilno Voivodship at once. It was organised on 9 December 1931 by the Main Statistical Office of Poland. However, in 1931 the question of nationality was replaced by two separate questions of \"religion worshipped\" and the \"language spoken at home\". Because of that, it is sometimes argued that the \"language question\" was introduced to diminish the number of Jews, some of whom spoke Polish rather than Yiddish or Hebrew. The table on the right shows the census findings on language. Wilno Voivodship did not include Druskininkai (Druskinieki) area and included just a small part of Varena (Orani) area where the majority of inhabitants were Lithuanians. The Voivodship, however, included Brasław, Dzisna, Mołodeczno, Oszmiana, Postawy and Wilejka counties which now belong to Belarus.\nIn December 1939, shortly after their take-over of the area, the Lithuanian authorities organized a new census in the area. However, the census is often criticized as skewed, intending to prove the historical and moral rights of Lithuania to the disputed area, rather than to determine the factual composition. Lithuanian figures from that period are criticized as significantly inflating the number of Lithuanians.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the German-Soviet War in 1941, the area of former Central Lithuania was quickly seized by the Wehrmacht. On 27 May 1942 a new census was organised by the German authorities and the local Lithuanian collaborators. The details of the methodology used are unknown and the results of the census are commonly believed to be an outcome of the racial theories and beliefs of those who organised the census rather than the actual ethnic and national composition of the area. Among the most notable features is a complete lack of data on the Jewish inhabitants of the area (see Ponary massacre for explanation) and a much lowered number of Poles, as compared to all the earlier censuses.\nHowever, Wilna-Gebiet did not include Brasław, Dzisna, Mołodeczno, Postawy and Wilejka counties but included Svyren district (current Kaišiadorys and Elektrėnai municipalities. That explains the decline of number of Poles.\n\nThe registered population of Vilnius was 107,000. People who moved to the city during the German occupation, military personnel and temporary residents were not counted. According to the data from the beginning of 1945, the total population of Vilnius, Švenčionys and Trakai counties amounted to 325,000 people, half of them Poles. About 90% of the Vilnius' Jewish inhabitants had been killed in the Holocaust. Every Pole in the city was forced to register for resettlement and about 80% of Vilnius Poles left for Poland.\n\nDuring 1944-1946 period about 50% of the registered Poles in Lithuania were transferred to Poland. Dovile Budryte estimates that about 150,000 people left the country. During 1955-1959 period, another 46,600 Poles left Lithuania. However, Lithuanian historians estimate that about 10 percent of people who left for Poland were ethnic Lithuanians. While the removal of Poles from Vilnius was a matter of primary importance for the Lithuanian communist authorities, the depolonization of the countryside was limited due to fear that it would cause depopulation and labor shortage. This led to the emergence of the ethnic segregation, with Lithuanians and Russians prevailing in the city and Poles in the surrounding areas.\nThese are the results of the migration to Poland and the growth of the city due to industrial development and the Soviet Union policy.\n\nPoles accounted for 63.6% of the population in Vilnius rayon/county (currently Vilnius district municipality, excluding the city of Vilnius itself), and 82.4% of the population in Šalčininkai rayon/county (currently known as Šalčininkai district municipality).\n\nThe Jews living in Vilnius had their own complex identity, and labels of Polish Jews, Lithuanian Jews or Russian Jews are all applicable only in part. The majority of the Yiddish speaking population used the Litvish dialect.\n\nThe Vilnius urban region is the only area in East Lithuania that doesn't face decline in population density.\n\nPoles are the majority of native rural population in the Vilnius region. The share of the Polish population across the region is decreasing, mainly due to natural decline of rural population and process of suburbanization – majority of new residents in the outskirts of Vilnius are Lithuanians.\n\nMost speakers in the area today speak a dialect known as the simple speech (\"po prostu\"), and they consider this language to be Polish. Colloquial Polish in Lithuania includes dialectic qualities and is influenced by other languages.\nEducated Poles speak a language close to standard Polish.\n\nThe Northern-kresowy dialect of Polish is also spoken.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1966908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966908", "title": "Economic collapse", "text": "Economic collapse\n\nEconomic collapse is any of a broad range of bad economic conditions, ranging from a severe, prolonged depression with high bankruptcy rates and high unemployment (such as the Great Depression of the 1930s), to a breakdown in normal commerce caused by hyperinflation (such as in Weimar Germany in the 1920s), or even an economically caused sharp rise in the death rate and perhaps even a decline in population (such as in countries of the former USSR in the 1990s).\n\nOften economic collapse is accompanied by social chaos, civil unrest and a breakdown of law and order.\n\nThere are few well documented cases of economic collapse. One of the best documented cases of collapse or near collapse is the Great Depression, the causes of which are still being debated.\n\"To understand the Great Depression is the Holy Grail of macroeconomics.\" —Ben Bernanke (1995)\n\nBernanke's comment addresses the difficulty of identifying specific causes when many factors may each have contributed to various extents.\n\nPast economic collapses have had political as well as financial causes. Persistent trade deficits, wars, revolutions, famines, depletion of important resources, and government-induced hyperinflation have been listed as causes.\n\nIn some cases blockades and embargoes caused severe hardships that could be considered economic collapse. In the U.S. the Embargo Act of 1807 forbade foreign trade with warring European nations, causing a severe depression in the heavily international trade-dependent economy, especially in the shipping industry and port cities, ending a great boom. The Union blockade of the Confederate States of America severely damaged the South's plantation owners; however, the South had little economic development. The blockade of Germany during World War I led to starvation of hundreds of thousands of Germans but did not cause economic collapse, at least until the political turmoil and the hyperinflation that followed. For both the Confederacy and Weimar Germany, the cost of the war was worse than the blockade. Many Southern plantation owners had their bank accounts confiscated and also all had to free their slaves without compensation. The Germans had to make war reparations.\n\nFollowing defeat in war, the conquering country or faction may not accept paper currency of the vanquished, and the paper becomes worthless. (This was the situation of the Confederacy.) Government debt obligations, primarily bonds, are often restructured and sometimes become worthless. Therefore, there is a tendency for the public to hold gold and silver during times of war or crisis.\n\nHyperinflation, wars, and revolutions cause hoarding of essentials and a disruption of markets. In some past hyperinflations, workers were paid daily and immediately spent their earnings on essential goods, which they often used for barter. Store shelves were frequently empty.\n\nMore stable foreign currencies, silver and gold (usually coins) were held and exchanged in place of local currency. The minting country of precious metal coins tended to be relatively unimportant. Jewelry was also used as a medium of exchange. Alcoholic beverages were also used for barter.\n\nDesperate individuals sold valuable possessions to buy essentials or traded them for gold and silver.\n\nIn the German hyperinflation, stocks held much more of their value than paper currency. Bonds denominated in the inflating currency may lose most or all value.\n\nDuring severe financial crises, sometimes governments close banks. Depositors may be unable to withdraw their money for long periods, as was true in the United States in 1933 under the Emergency Banking Act. Withdrawals may be limited. Bank deposits may be involuntarily converted to government bonds or to a new currency of lesser value in foreign exchange.\n\nDuring financial crises and even less severe situations, capital controls are often imposed to restrict or prohibit transferring or personally taking money, securities or other valuables out of a country. To end hyperinflations a new currency is typically issued. The old currency is often not worth exchanging for new.\n\nSee also: Financial repression\n\nThe Taiping Rebellion followed by internal warfare, famines and epidemics caused the deaths of over 100 million and greatly reduced the economy.\n\nFollowing Germany's defeat in World War I, political instability resulted in murders and assassinations of hundreds of political figures. (See: German Revolution of 1918–1919 and Kapp Putsch) Germany's finances were heavily strained by the war and reparations in accordance with the Treaty of Versailles. Unable to raise enough in taxes to run the government and make war reparations, the government resorted to printing money which resulted in great hyperinflation. One book on the hyperinflation, which includes quotes and a few first hand accounts, is \"When Money Dies\".\n\nThe hyperinflation eventually ended, it cleared government debt at the cost of the citizens' savings. Some believe that the hyperinflation of 1923 has helped fuel the eventual rise of the Nazi party and the rise of Hitler to power in 1933. Economists, however, tend to attribute Hitler's rise to the Deflation and the Great Depression beginning in 1929. Paul Krugman concluded that the 1923 hyperinflation didn’t bring Hitler to power; it was the Brüning deflation and depression. \nBefore 1929 the Nazi party was actually in decline with less than 3% of votes in the German federal election of 1928 (see election results of the Nazi Party).\n\nWhile arguably not a true economic collapse, the decade of the 1930s witnessed the most severe worldwide economic contraction since the start of the Industrial Revolution. In the US, the Depression began in the summer of 1929, soon followed by the stock market crash of October 1929. American stock prices continued to decline in fits and starts until they hit bottom in July 1932. In the first quarter of 1933, the banking system broke down: asset prices had collapsed, bank lending had largely ceased, a quarter of the American work force was unemployed, and real GDP per capita in 1933 was 29% below its 1929 value. The ensuing rapid recovery was interrupted by a major recession in 1937-38. The USA fully recovered by 1941, the eve of its entry in World War II, which gave rise to a boom as dramatic as the Depression that preceded it.\n\nWhile there were numerous bank failures during the Great Depression, most banks in developed countries survived, as did most currencies and governments. The most significant monetary change during the depression was the demise of the gold standard by most nations that were on it. In the U.S., the dollar was redeemable in gold until 1933 when U.S. citizens were forced to turn over their gold (except for 5 ounces) for fiat currency (See: Executive Order 6102) and were forbidden to own monetary gold for the next four decades. Subsequently, gold was revalued from $20.67 per ounce to $35 per ounce. U.S. dollars remained redeemable in gold by foreigners until 1971. Gold ownership was legalized in the U.S. in 1974, but not with legal tender status.\n\nAs bad as the Great Depression was, it took place during a period of high productivity growth, which caused real wages to rise. The high unemployment was partly a result of the productivity gains, allowing the number of hours of the standard work week to be cut while restoring economic output to previous levels after a few years. Workers who remained employed saw their real hourly earnings rise because wages remained constant while prices fell; however, overall earnings remained relatively constant because of the reduced work week. Converting the dollar to a fiat currency and devaluing against gold ensured the end of deflation and created inflation, which made the high debt accumulated during the 1920s boom easier to repay, although some of the debt was written off.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Eastern Bloc, which relied on a stagnant form of planned economy, experienced a decade-long period of stagflation, and eventual collapse from which it did not recover, culminating with revolutions and the fall of communist regimes throughout Central and Eastern Europe and eventually in the Soviet Union. The process was accompanied by a gradual but important easing of restrictions on economic and political behaviour in the late 1980s, including the satellite states.\n\nThe collapse in the USSR was characterized by an increase in the death rate, especially by men over 50, with alcoholism a major cause. There was also an increase in violent crime and murder. The Russian population peaked in the 1990s and is lower today than two decades ago, as the demographics of Russia show.\n\nA firsthand account of conditions during the economic collapse was told by Dmitry Orlov, a former USSR citizen who became a US citizen but returned to Russia for a time during the crisis.\n\nAfter more or less stabilizing after the disintegration of the USSR, a severe financial crisis took place in the Russian Federation in August 1998. It was caused by low oil prices and government expenditure cuts after the end of the Cold War. Other nations of the former Soviet Union also experienced economic collapse, although a number of crises also involved armed conflicts, like in the break-away region Chechnya. The default by Russia on its government bonds in 1998 led to the collapse of highly leveraged hedge fund Long Term Capital Management, which threatened the world financial system. The U.S. Federal Reserve organized a bailout of LTCM which turned it over to a banking consortium.\n\nVideo documentary Argentine economic crisis\n\nIn Latvia, GDP declined more than 20% from 2008 to 2010, one of the worst recessions on record.\nIn Greece, GDP declined more than 26% starting in 2008.\n\nSince 2013, Venezuela has been suffering an economic crisis. It's the worst in Venezuelan history, caused by the economic policies of the president, Nicolás Maduro the successor of Hugo Chávez, the fall in oil prices and internal and external factors. Since 2014, Venezuela's GDP has been in recession, falling more 40%. The economy has collapsed, causing shortages of basics goods, economic downturn and hyperinflation since 2017. Also, there are drastic increases in the crime, corruption, poverty and hunger. Thousands of Venezuelans have fled to neighboring countries.\n\nSome economists (i.e. the Austrian School, in particular Ludwig von Mises), believe that government intervention and over-regulation of the economy can lead to the conditions for collapse. In particular, Austrian theoretical research has been focused on such problems emanating from socialist forms of economic organization. This however is not a theory of economic collapse involving the breakdown of freely functioning financial markets; rather, the focus is on economic malfunction and crisis emanating from state control.\n\nHowever, many Austrian economists also subscribe to what is called the \"ABCT\" ,or Austrian Business Cycle Theory. Economist Roger Garrison describes the bubble as merely a form of unsustainable boom (not a theory of all depression), as Mises and F.A. Hayek did, despite their disagreements on the exact workings of it. The essential part of the theory is that it is inherently unsustainable to try to manipulate monetary policy to boost both investment and consumption; usually through interest rate manipulation and bond-buying and such. The \"boom\" was created by \"malinvestments,\" as Mises called them; business decisions that are bad investments and unsustainable in the long run because lowering interest rates by padding the supply of money and credit will only work in the short-term, but will ultimately collapse because the government can only hold down interest rates so long before fear of inflation kicks in (and deflation comes at the peak of the business cycle), or they go into hyperinflation (which is completely outside the realm of the ABCT).\n\nIn \"The Science of Political Economy\", published in 1905, Henry George argued that because land is a scarce resource, it is particularly subject to speculation. George uses \"land\" to refer to ownership of a right to use a resource. It includes mining, water, fishing, and timber rights, road and rail rights-of way,\nand some patents. Today, we would add to \"land\" such items as\ntaxi medallions, telecommunications licenses and pollution \"rights\".\nHenry George followed his analysis with a remedy: eliminate all taxes\nexcept for a tax on land values. The \"single tax\", as it later became known, would\ninvigorate the economy by breaking up large idle holdings, making land available to\nthose who would use it. And it would suck the air out of speculative bubbles, damping\nthe boom and bust cycle. Henry George died before the publication of the series of books, and parts of the book are nothing more than an outline, essays and lectures as noted on the cover page. He also stated that the expansion of the money supply, should be 1 percent or thereabout, to maintain healthy growth, and discourage saving, and encourage spending, and he wanted a debt free currency. (Our current currency, as of 1913 is birthed by debt).\n\nRomanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a progenitor in economics and the paradigm founder of ecological economics, has argued that the carrying capacity of Earth—that is, Earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — is bound to decrease sometime in the future as Earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use; and consequently, that the world economy as a whole is heading towards an inevitable future collapse, leading to the demise of human civilisation itself.\n\nGeorgescu-Roegen is basing his pessimistic prediction on the two following considerations:\nTaken together, the Industrial Revolution in Britain in the second half of the 18th century has unintentionally thrust man's economy into a long, never-to-return overshoot-and-collapse trajectory with regard to the Earth's mineral stock. The world economy will continue growing until its inevitable and final collapse in the future. From that point on, ever deepening scarcities will aggravate social conflict throughout the globe and ultimately spell the end of mankind itself, Georgescu-Roegen conjectures.\n\nGeorgescu-Roegen was the paradigm founder of ecological economics and is also considered the main intellectual figure influencing the degrowth movement. Consequently, much work in these fields is devoted to discussing the existential impossibility of allocating Earth's finite stock of mineral resources evenly among an unknown number of present and future generations. This number of generations is likely to remain unknown to us, as there is no way — or only little way — of knowing in advance if or when mankind will ultimately face extinction. In effect, \"any\" conceivable intertemporal allocation of the stock will inevitably end up with universal economic decline at some future point. \n\nExamples:\n"}
{"id": "27124332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27124332", "title": "Eddie Dodson", "text": "Eddie Dodson\n\nEddie Dodson (December 24, 1948 – February 21, 2003) was known as the \"New York Yankees Bandit\". Before his death he was connected to 72 bank robberies.\n\nDodson was born in Shelby, North Carolina, on December 24, 1948. Shortly after he was born his father died, leaving his mother and grandmother to raise him. His mother and grandmother were devout Christians, and they attended church regularly.\n\nDodson graduated from high school in 1967 and considered himself a hippie. Shortly after graduating he started selling illegal drugs and was eventually arrested in 1972.\n\nRunning from a possible conviction from the 1972 drug arrest, Dodson ended up in Los Angeles, where he opened an antique store/nightclub that eventually attracted many Hollywood celebrities. Dodson became a minor Los Angeles celebrity himself. Eventually his lawyer back in North Carolina managed to get his charges dropped. However, Dodson continued his drug use.\n\nIn 1983, Dodson was unable to support his drug addiction financially, and he resorted to robbing banks. Within nine months, he had robbed 64 banks, which is the largest number of banks in the US robbed by a single person. His trademark 'NY Yankees' baseball cap led to his nickname. In 1984, Dodson was finally arrested and convicted, and was sentenced to 15 years in prison. However, he only served 10 years.\n\nWhen Dodson was released, he worked for a time as a caretaker for actor and director Jack Nicholson, but in time resumed his former drug use. One of his friends tried to help him get into rehabilitation, but he failed. In 1999, Dodson robbed eight more banks, which led to a conviction, and he was facing a penalty of 120 years. However, due to his diagnosis of Hepatitis C, the courts sentenced him to only 46 months (6 of those months on a drug charge), because they did not think he had much longer to live. In 2003, Dodson died at UCLA Medical Center.\n\nIn April 2015 the biographical crime film \"Electric Slide\" was released, starring Jim Sturgess as Eddie Dodson. The film is based on a Gear magazine article written by Timothy Ford, \"The Yankee Bandit: The Life and Times of Eddie Dodson, World’s Great Bank Robber\". The events of the film are based loosely on Dodson's string of robberies between 1983 and 1984.\n"}
{"id": "794038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794038", "title": "Ella A. Boole", "text": "Ella A. Boole\n\nElla Alexander Boole (July 26, 1858 – March 13, 1952) was an American temperance leader and social reformer. She served as head of the world's Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) from 1931 to 1947, after serving as head of the United States' national WCTU.\n\nShe was born as Ella Alexander on July 26, 1858 in Van Wert, Ohio. Boole's father was a prominent lawyer, who edited a free soil newspaper and supported reforms during Reconstruction following the Civil War. She attended public schools in Van Wert, then the College of Wooster where she studied classics. She had an aptitude for natural science and developed skills in public speaking. She received an A.B. degree (1878), followed by an A.M. degree (1881).\n\nShe married Reverend William H. Boole of the Willet Street Methodist Church on July 3, 1883. Her husband died in 1896 and she became a deaconess in his church.\n\nBoole's husband was active in prohibition and temperance activities, in which she joined him. Boole joined the Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) in 1883. She showed great skill as an organizer of new unions, and became vice-president of the New York state union in 1891. After the death of Boole's husband, she was able to support her family through an inheritance from her father and income from her speaking engagements and temperance activities. In 1898, she became president of the New York WCTU. She held this position until 1925, with the exception of a six-year period when she was corresponding secretary of the Woman's Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church (1903-1909). One of her key activities was in shifting WCTU work away from its emphasis on collecting petitions, and towards direct lobbying of legislators.\n\nFollowing the enfranchisement of women in the United States, Boole decided to run for office herself. In 1920, she unsuccessfully challenged James Wolcott Wadsworth Jr. for the Republican Party nomination for the United States Senate. After losing the nomination, she ran as a candidate for the Prohibition Party against Wadsworth and the Democratic and Socialist Party candidates in the general election. Wadsworth won easily with 52% of the vote, while Boole came in third place with 7% of the vote, not far ahead of the Socialist candidate.\n\nBoole served as head of the national Woman's Christian Temperance Union from 1931 to 1947. She died on March 13, 1952 at age 93.\n\nHer other causes included supporting legislative changes to bring about social reform, including laws to protect the rights of women and children in industry, the establishment of separate courts and deputies for juvenile offenders, and woman suffrage. As President of the International WCTU, she promoted disarmament, the end of the international illicit drug trade, and supported international women's rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "17628048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17628048", "title": "Ethnic minorities in Poland", "text": "Ethnic minorities in Poland\n\nThe population of Post-World War II Poland became nearly completely ethnically homogeneous as a result of the German-Nazi Holocaust, the radically altered borders, and the deportations ordered by the Soviet authorities, who wished to remove the sizeable Polish minorities from the Baltics (Lithuania) and Eastern Europe (western Belarus and western Ukraine).\n\nAlthough the concept of an ethnic minority is mostly used with regards to modern period, historically, Poland has been a very multi-ethnic country. Early on, the influx of Czech, Hungarian, Slovak, Jewish, and German settlers was particularly notable, forming significant minorities, or even majorities in urban centers. After the Polish-Lithuanian union of mid-14th century and the Union of Lublin formally establishing the Commonwealth in 1569, Lithuanians and Ruthenians constituted a major part of the Commonwealth populace.\n\nAn estimate for 1493 gives the combined population of Poland and Lithuania at 7.5 million, breaking them down by ethnicity at \n\nIn 1618, after the Truce of Deulino the population of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth increased together with its territory, reaching 12 million. Its inhabitants could be roughly divided into:\n\nAt that time the szlachta, or Polish nobility, formed 10% and burghers, 15%.\n\nWith the population and territorial losses of the mid and late-17th century, in 1717 the population of the Commonwealth had declined to only 9 million, which breaks down into the following ethnic groups:\n\nThe census of 1921 allocates 30.8% of the population in the minority. This was further exacerbated with the Polish victory in the Polish-Soviet War, and the large territorial gains in the east, made by Poland as a consequence. According to the 1931 Polish Census (as cited by Norman Davies), 68.9% of the population was Polish, 13.9% were Ukrainians, around 10% Jewish, 3.1% Belarusians, 2.3% Germans and 2.8% - others, including Lithuanians, Czechs and Armenians. Also, there were smaller communities of Russians, and Gypsies. The situation of minorities was a complex subject and changed during the period.\n\nPoland was also a nation of many religions. In 1921, 16,057,229 Poles (approx. 62.5%) were Roman (Latin) Catholics, 3,031,057 citizens of Poland (approx. 11.8%) were Eastern Rite Catholics (mostly Ukrainian Greek Catholics and Armenian Rite Catholics), 2,815,817 (approx. 10.95%) were Greek Orthodox, 2,771,949 (approx. 10.8%) were Jewish, and 940,232 (approx. 3.7%) were Protestants (mostly Lutheran). By 1931 Poland had the second largest Jewish population in the world, with one-fifth of all the world's Jews residing within its borders (approx. 3,136,000).\n\nBefore World War II, a third of Poland's population was composed of ethnic minorities. After the war, however, Poland's minorities were mostly gone, due to the 1945 revision of borders, and the Holocaust. Under the National Repatriation Office (\"Państwowy Urząd Repatriacyjny\"), millions of Poles were forced to leave their homes in the eastern Kresy region and settle in the western former German territories. At the same time approximately 5 million remaining Germans (about 8 million had already fled or had been expelled and about 1 million had been killed in 1944-46) were similarly expelled from those territories into the Allied occupation zones. Ukrainian and Belarusian minorities found themselves now mostly within the borders of the Soviet Union; those who opposed this new policy (like the Ukrainian Insurgent Army in the Bieszczady Mountains region) were suppressed by the end of 1947 in the Operation Vistula.\n\nThe population of Jews in Poland, which formed the largest Jewish community in pre-war Europe at about 3.3 million people, was all but destroyed by 1945. Approximately 3 million Jews died of starvation in ghettos and labor camps, were slaughtered at the German Nazi extermination camps or by the Einsatzgruppen death squads. Between 40,000 and 100,000 Polish Jews survived the Holocaust in Poland, and another 50,000 to 170,000 were repatriated from the Soviet Union, and 20,000 to 40,000 from Germany and other countries. At its postwar peak, there were 180,000 to 240,000 Jews in Poland, settled mostly in Warsaw, Łódź, Kraków and Wrocław.\n\nThe rights of ethnic minorities in Poland are guaranteed in article 35 of the 1997 Constitution:\n\nThe Bill on Ethnic and National Minorities and Regional Languages of 6 January 2005 () stipulates that in order to be recognized as an ethnic or national minority a given group must reside in Poland for at least 100 years, which excludes minorities previously recognized as such under the Communist regimes, such as the Greeks. There are presently three categories of recognized minorities in Poland: 9 national minorities (Belorussians, Czechs, Lithuanians, Germans, Armenians, Russians, Slovaks, Ukrainians, Jews), 4 ethnic minorities (Karaites, Lemkos, Roma and Tatars), and a regional linguistic minority (Kashubians).\n\nPoland has ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages on 12 February 2009:\n\nAt the Polish census of 2002, 96.7% of the people of Poland claimed Polish nationality, and 97.8% declare that they speak Polish at home. At the 2011 census, 1,44% of the 39 million inhabitants of Poland declared to be descendents of another single ancestry than Polish. That number includes 418,000 who declared to be Silesians as a national-ethnic identification (362,000 as single ethnicity and 391,000 a second ethnicity) and 17,000 Kashubians (16,000 as single ethnicity). Recognized minorities numbered 0,3% of the population: 49,000 Germans (26,000 single ethnicity), 36,000 Ukrainians (26,000 single ethnicity), 7,000 Lemkos (5,000 single ethnicity), 37,000 Belarusians (31,000 single ethnicity), 12,000 Roma people (9,000 single ethnicity), 8,000 Russians (5,000 single ethnicity). 0,2% of the population are foreign citizens.\n\n2002 census:\n\nPolish census of 2011:\n\nThe general population background in 2011 was as follows:\n\nAround 50,000 Armenians settled in Poland in the 14th century, and an Armenian colony gradually formed through successive immigrations. According to the Polish census of 2002, there are 1,082 Armenians in Poland, although Armenian-oriented sources cite estimates as high as 92,000. The Armenian-Orthodox community converted to Catholicism in the 17th century. There is still an Armenian church in formerly Polish Lwów (now Lviv in Ukraine) with clergy that preach in the Armenian language. The remains of pre-war Armenian church organizations serve the community.\n\nIn the Polish census of 2002, 48,700 people declared they belong to this group. This number fell to 46,800 in the 2011 census.\n\nThey live in close concentrations on south and east area of Białystok, near and in areas adjoining Belarus border.\n\nAccording to the Polish census of 2002, 386 Czechs live in Poland, many of them in Zelów or near the Czech border, such as in the \"Czech Corner\". Arguably, the most famous Pole with Czech roots is painter Jan Matejko.\n\nGermans remain in Pomerania, Silesia, East Prussia and Lubusz Land. The current estimates based on the 2002 census gives 147 094 Germans living mainly in the region of Opole, Katowice and Częstochowa (south-west part of Poland).\n\nPolish Gorals are an ethnographic group in southern Poland that speaks a dialect of Polish that has been heavily influenced by Slovak. Some urban Poles find this very distinct dialect difficult to understand. Polish Gorals live primarily in the region of Podhale and are separated from Slovak Gorals by the High Tatra mountains, which, together with Zakopane Style architecture, form an important part of Goral identity and are part the reason why the town of Zakopane is now a popular tourist destination and winter resort town. \"Goralenvolk action,\" which was an attempt by Nazi Germany during the second world war to Germanize Polish Gorals, failed due to lack of support from the Goral population.\n\nSome 4 - 5,000 Greeks live in central and southeast Poland, most of whom came in 1949, after the Greek Civil War. It is estimated that after this conflict, some 14,000 Greeks came to Poland, settling mainly in the town of Zgorzelec in Lower Silesia. In the course of the time, most of them returned to their homeland or moved to Germany. According to the 2011 census, there are 3600 individuals claim some form of Greek identity living in Poland. Among famous Poles of Greek origin are popular pop singer Eleni Tzoka, drummer Milo Kurtis (who played in such bands as Maanam and Voo Voo), and guitar virtuoso Apostolis Anthimos from the progressive rock band SBB. \n\nFor many centuries, Poland was the main country of the Jews worldwide, and Jews constituted Poland's first minority group. However, it did not survive World War II. Beforehand, there were 3,474,000 Jews in Poland. Those who managed to escape mostly fled to the United States, Israel, Great Britain or Latin America.\n\nAccording to the Polish Ministry of the Interior and Administration, at the time of the 2002 census, there were 1,055 Jewish people in Poland. In the 2011 census, however, that number had grown to 7,353. Its representatives live mainly in large cities like Warsaw, Wrocław, Kraków and Lublin.\n\nAt the 2002 census, there were 45 Karaims, 43 of them Polish citizens.\n\nIn the Polish census of 2002, only 5,100 people declared Kashubian ethnicity, although 52,665 declared Kashubian as their native language. In ten municipalities (gmina), more than 20% of the population spoke Kashubian according to the same census data: Przodkowo (49.0%), Sulęczyno (48.6%), Stężyca (43.2%), Sierakowice (39.9%), Linia (35.5%), Chmielno (34.8%), Puck (30.9%), Somonino (30.8%), Szemud (26.3%) and Parchowo (22.6%). At the 2011 census however, the number of persons declaring \"Kashubian\" as their first single ethnicity raised to 17,000, and 229,000 including those who declared Kashubian as first or second ethnicity.\nDonald Tusk, the former Polish Prime Minister, is Kashubian.\n\nWhile today the Kursenieki, also known as Kuronowie Pruscy and Kurończycy in Polish and Kuršininkai in Lithuanian are a nearly extinct Baltic ethnic group living along the Curonian Spit, in 1649 Kuršininkai settlement spanned from Memel (Klaipėda) to Danzig (Gdańsk). The Kuršininkai were eventually assimilated by the Germans, except along the Curonian Spit where some still live. The Kuršininkai were considered Latvians until after World War I when Latvia gained independence from the Russian Empire, a consideration based on linguistic arguments. This was the rationale for Latvian claims over the Curonian Spit, Memel, and other territories of East Prussia which would be later dropped.\n\nAt the 2002 census there were 5,863 persons (5,850 Polish citizens who declared themselves Lemkos, and 62 Rusyns) all Polish citizens. At the 2011 census, there were 7,000 Lemkos (first declared ethnicity) and 10,000 including those who declared Lemko as second ethnicity.\n\nThere were 5,846 Lithuanians in Poland (5,639 Polish citizens), according to the 2002 census. They live in close concentrations, in Suwałki in the north-east of Poland, and in the territory of Puńsk Municipality (Gmina) where they constituted 74.4% of the inhabitants in 2002 (3,312 out of 4,454).\n\nThere were 286 Macedonians in Poland at the 2002 census, including 187 Polish citizens. There is a mention of 5,000 Macedonian speakers in 1970.\n\nAt the 2002 census, there were 46 self-declared Masurians, all Polish citizens.\n\nAt the 2002 census, there were 109 self-declared Frisians, including 36 Polish citizens.\n\nThere are 12,731 Romani in Poland, according to the 2002 census. They are dispersed and live on the area of the whole country, although their more numerous concentrations are in the south of Poland.\n\nRussians are scattered around the territory of Poland but mostly reside in eastern Poland. There are 3244 Russians in Poland, according to the 2002 census. The HFHR estimated around 13,000-15,000 Russians are in Poland. This society includes also Old Believers who are members of the Eastern Old Believers' Church and account for 2,000–3,000 persons living in the south-east of Poland.\n\nScottish people migrated to Poland in large numbers in the mid-16th century. Mostly from the Highlands of Scotland, and mainly Catholic and Episcopalian, they were fleeing from religious persecution and harsh economic conditions. There was also an extensive trade between Scotland's east coast ports such as Dundee, Leith and Aberdeen and towns such as Danzig (Gdańsk) and Königsberg (modern Kaliningrad). William Lithgow, who visited Poland in 1616, reported that there were an estimated 30,000 Scottish families living in the country, which he described as \"...a mother and nurse for the youth and younglings of Scotland...in cloathing, feeding, and inrichening them\". Many came from Dundee and Aberdeen and could be found in towns on the banks of the Vistula as far south as Kraków. To this day it is believed that many Poles have Scottish ancestry. At the 2011 census, there were 26 Scots (including 13 Polish citizens).\n\nINTERREG estimated there are up to 2,000,000 Silesians in Poland. In the Polish census of 2002, however, 173,153 people officially declared Silesian ethnicity, although only about 60,000 declared Silesian as their native language. In the 2011 Polish census, Silesian ethnicity was declared by 809 thousand responders out of 5 million in the region, including 362 thousand who declared it as their only ethnicity, 418 thousand who declared it as their first ethnicity, and 415 thousand who declared it jointly with a Polish ethnicity.\n\nSlovaks live in some areas in southern Poland, to the number of 1710 according to the Polish 2002 census. Polish Slovaks inhabit two small frontier regions in the Spisz and Orawa (south of Poland, near Polish-Slovak border). Larger groups of Slovaks are in Kraków and Silesia region.\n\nSmall populations of Polish Lipka Tatars still exist and still practice Islam. Some Polish towns, mainly in northeastern Poland (in Podlaskie Voivodeship) have mosques. Tatars arrived as mercenary soldiers beginning in the late 14th century. The Tatar population reached approximately 100,000 in 1630 but the 2002 census showed only 447 people declaring this ethnicity.\n\nUkrainians are scattered in various eastern and northern districts. In the Polish census of 2002 27,172 people declared they belong to this group.\n\nAround 30,000 Vietnamese live in Poland, mostly in big cities. They publish a number of newspapers, both pro- and anti-Communist. The first immigrants were Vietnamese students at Polish universities in the post-World War II era. These numbers increased slightly during the Vietnam War, when agreements between the communist Vietnamese and Polish governments allowed Vietnamese guest workers to receive industrial training in Poland. A large number of Vietnamese immigrants also arrived after 1989.\n\nThere are also nationality groups of Americans (in 2002: 1,541 of whom 992 had Polish citizenship), Britons, Turks (232, including 74 Polish citizens), Hungarians (579, including 228 Polish citizens), French (2002: 1,633 including 1,068 Polish citizens), Italians (1,367 including 835 Polish citizens), Serbs, Croats, Bulgarians (1,112, including 404 Polish citizens), Romanians, Georgians, Africans, Palestinians (229 including 146 Polish citizens), other Arabs, Kurds, Bengali, Scandinavians, Chechens and Vietnamese, who constitute small ethnic communities within major cities such as Warsaw, Kraków, and Gdańsk. And various ethnic groups from the whole world like Zulus (92, including 52 Polish citizens), Kurds (91 including 62 Polish citizens), African-Americans (80, including 37 Polish citizens), Flemings (23, including 10 Polish citizens) etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "4907813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4907813", "title": "Futuresport", "text": "Futuresport\n\nFuturesport is a television film directed by Ernest Dickerson, starring Dean Cain, Vanessa Williams, and Wesley Snipes. It originally aired on ABC in October 1998, and released on VHS and DVD in March 1999.\n\nThe film is set in 2025, and centers on a sport called \"Futuresport\" (a combination of basketball, baseball and hockey that uses hoverboards and rollerblades) created as a non-lethal way to reduce gang warfare. Tre (Dean Cain) must save the world from Hawaiian Liberation Organization terrorists by winning in the game of futuresport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18478911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18478911", "title": "Gharzai Khwakhuzhi", "text": "Gharzai Khwakhuzhi\n\nGen. Gharzai Khwakhuzhi (), son of late. ustad Mohammad Ibraheem Khwakhuzhi (poet, writer, journalist, politician and a leadership member of the Weesh Zalmyan movement as well as Progressive Democratic Party of Afghanistan under the leadership of late. Mohammad Hashim Maiwandwal) original resident of Kandahar born in Kabul on 29 May 1962 belongs to Baloch ethnic group.\n\nCompleted his schooling at Habibia High School Kabul, participated in commando, parachute and army officers courses and graduated Army University with a Bachelors in Logistics.\n\nThroughout his life, Gharzai Khwakhuzhi has worked in different official and private positions which are:\n1972-1980:- He was in-charge of Habibia High School’s Youths Wing and a member of Youths Democratic Movement of Afghanistan leadership delegation; \n1980-1992:- Worked at Ministry of Defense’s different departments, promoted up to the rank of Brigadier General and worked as the secretary of Information and Culture Minister;\n1992:- Due to the civil wars migrated to Pakistan;\n1992-1993:- In-charge of Public Relations at RDA, a NGO that worked for the Reconstruction and Development of Afghanistan;\n1993-1994:- In-charge of UN Emergency Food Forward Program to Kabul during the war times;\n1994-1996:- Struggled for peace and stability in Afghanistan;\n1996:- Deputy Minister, the Ministry of National Accountability;\n1997:- Deputy Chief of Operations, the Directorate General of Intelligence and Advisor of the National Security Council;\n1997:- With an accusation of leading a Coup against the Taliban government, he was detained for five years in deferent jails of Nangarhar, Kabul and Kandahar and was released on 7 December 2001 after the fall of Taliban regime; \n2004:- In-charge of Afghan Electoral Campaign in Islamabad Pakistan;\n2004–Present:- Established Khwakhuzhi Literary and Cultural Association and serving as the president of the association;\n2005–Present:- Established Samsoor Afghanistan Construction Company and serving as the head of the company;\n2005:- Ran for National Assembly of Afghanistan (Wolesi Jirga) from Kabul but did not succeed due to external interference;\n2007-2008:- Deputy Mayor of Kabul Province, resigned due to health problems;\n2007:- Member of the Afghanistan Pakistan Peace Jirga;\n2009:- Head of Inspection and Management department of the Office of People's Support for the presidential elections of Afghanistan;\n2011:- Member of the Traditional Loya Jirga on Afghan-American Strategic Partnership;\n2012–Present:- Deputy President of the Baloch General Council of Afghanistan;\n2013:- Member of the Consultative Loya Jirga on talks about the Afghan-American Bilateral Security Agreement;\n2014–Present:- Member of the General Staff of the Ministry of Interior of Afghanistan.\n\nGharzai Khwakhuzhi has been honored with following rewards from the Government of Afghanistan through his life:\n• First Grade Star Badge\n• Second Grade Star Badge\n• Courage, Service, Youths of Afghanistan and Sayed Jamal-ud-deen Afghan Medals\n• Second Grade Award from Information and Culture Ministry in section of History and Literature for his book (the Great Game)\n\n1. Dawn of Democracy in Afghanistan (Pashto) \n2. Kandahar and Historic Occasions (Pashto)\n3. Great Game (Pashto)\n4. A view to circulation of Elections and Democracy in Afghanistan (Pashto)\n5. Memories of Khwakhuzhi (Pashto)\n6. Afghanistan toward Democracy (Dari)\n7. Personality for Ever, Late. Prof. Reshad (Pashto)\n8. Don’t try the tried! (Pashto)\n9. Dawn of Democracy in Afghanistan (Translated to English from Pashto)\n10. Jirgas (Assemblies) Throughout History of Afghanistan (Pashto)\n11. Articles Critics and analysis in newspapers and magazines (Pashto, Dari and translation of them in English)\n\n"}
{"id": "1939518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1939518", "title": "Greek Canadians", "text": "Greek Canadians\n\nGreek Canadians () are Canadian citizens who have full or partial Greek heritage or people who emigrated from Greece and reside in Canada. According to the 2011 Census, there were 252,960 Canadians who claimed Greek ancestry.\n\nProvinces and territories with the highest population of Greek Canadians, according to 2016 Census: \n\nCensus Metropolitan Agglomerations (CMAs) with the highest population of Greek Canadians, according to 2016 Census: \nCities with the highest population of Greek Canadians, according to 2016 Census: \n\nRidings (Federal electoral districts) with the highest percentage of Greek Canadians, according to 2016 Census: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43680682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43680682", "title": "Hayden Kays", "text": "Hayden Kays\n\nHayden Kays (born 3 October 1985 in London) is a British artist. He is influenced by the pop art from the '50s, but has most ties with street art. Banksy is a fan.\nHe often uses a typewriter (font) in his artworks. In February 2014 he became well known for selling artwork to One Direction popstar Harry Styles. He has since sold art to celebrities such as Chris Martin and Noel Fielding.\n\nHis works were collected in a monograph book in 2013, named Hayden Kays Is An Artist. ()\n\nIn 2014, he made the cover art for rock bands The Kooks and the Tribes (band).\n\n"}
{"id": "37139517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37139517", "title": "Healing of Abiku Children", "text": "Healing of Abiku Children\n\nHealing of Abiku Children is a piece created by the Nigerian artist Twins Seven-Seven in 1973, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. It consists of a large wooden plaque intricately carved and dyed with pigment to depict an important Yoruba ceremony. In it, a mother consults with a priest to keep her \"abiku\" twins in this world, rather than dying and being reborn to her over and over.\n\nTwins Seven Seven was intimately familiar with the ritual he depicted, being the sole surviving child of seven sets of twins. The Yoruba are both blessed with an unusually high incidence of twins and cursed with high infant mortality, a fact which they explain with the concept of abiku, or children born to die shortly thereafter. To end the cycle, mothers consult special divination priests, who use ceremonies and medicines to convince the children to remain in the community. The predominant figure in this work is such a mother, who holds one of her abiku twins while the other sleeps on her back. To the left, the priest framed by the door mixes the potions he will use on the children. Every inch of space is filled by people busily performing various tasks, their large eyes and facial scarification matching traditional Yoruba ideals of beauty. Twins Seven Seven's unique combination of modern and traditional styles (he was trained by German artists in Nigeria) is on display in this work, with its intricate, rhythmic designs from edge to edge and an almost sculptural quality due to the combination of carving and coloring the wood.\n\n\"Healing of Abiku Children\" was commissioned in 1972 by Dr. Hanus Grosz of Indianapolis, who requested a work on \"healing\".\n\nIn 1993, \"Healing of Abiku Children\" was given to the IMA by Mr. and Mrs. Harrison Eiteljorg. It is currently displayed in the \nEiteljorg Suite of African and Oceanic Art and has the acquisition number 1993.82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2419633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419633", "title": "Iatrochemistry", "text": "Iatrochemistry\n\nIatrochemistry (or chemical medicine) is a branch of both chemistry and medicine (ἰατρός (\"iatrós\") was the Greek word for \"physician\" or \"medicine\"). Having its roots in alchemy, iatrochemistry seeks to provide chemical solutions to diseases and medical ailments.\n\nThis area of science has fallen out of use in Europe since the rise of modern establishment medicine. However, iatrochemistry was popular between 1525 and 1660, especially in the low countries. Its most notable leader was Paracelsus, an important Swiss alchemist of the 16th century. Iatrochemists believed that physical health was dependent on a specific balance of bodily fluids. Iatrochemical therapies and concepts are still in wide use in South Asia, East Asia and amongst their diasporic communities worldwide.\n\nThe preparation of medicines had become a part of alchemy by the early modern period. Around 1350, John of Rupescissa advocated the extraction of the \"essence\" of both plants and minerals. He often used two relatively new substances during this period: an alcohol distilled from wine and strong mineral acids. Later, \"Pseudo-Llull\" (i.e. the body of work attributed to, but not necessarily written by, Ramon Llull) picked up and helped in expanding John of Rupescissa's theory.\n\nThe most effective and vocal proponent of iatrochemistry was Theophrastus von Hohenheim, also known as Paracelsus (1493–1541). He put his effort into the transmutation of metals and emphasized iatrochemistry in his works. Paracelsus believed that diseases were caused by poisons, but that poisons were not entirely negative. He suggested that poisons, or diseases, could also be cured by poisons; thus, poisons could have beneficial medical effects. Paracelsus's claim led to many chemically prepared medicines in this period which contained toxic components: arsenic, antimony, mercury, lead, and other heavy metals. However, his views were not accepted by many scholars until his incoherent writings were organized into more systematic form by his followers. Gradually, many physicians accepted Paracelsian remedies, although some disagreed with Paracelsus's philosophy.\n\nPhilipp Ulstad, who wrote some of the first books on chemical medicine, paved the way for a closer link between alchemy and medicine. His lucid, concise prose made \"Coelum philosophorum\" (1527) one of the most reissued chemical-medicine books of the 16th and 17th centuries. This documentation of knowledge was a trend that began in the mid-16th century and it allowed knowledge that was typically limited to those in apprenticeships to be accessible to anyone.\n\nIn 1609, Flemish chemist Jan Baptista van Helmont began a seven-year period of individual research, hoping to explore nature through chemistry, ultimately hoping to replace traditional learning. Van Helmont used chemical methods to study bodily products such as urine and blood. He studied the human body and its functions, and applied his knowledge of \"chymistry\" as a way of understanding and curing the body. Although he began as a follower of Paracelsus, van Helmont rejected many of his theories, most notably Galenic concept of the macrocosm with microcosm. In addition, van Helmont refused to accept the Paracelsian first principles (sulphur, salt, and mercury) as pre-existent in matter, believing instead that sulphur, salt and mercury were products of reactions that involved heat.\n\nMuch of van Helmont's medical philosophy was concerned with the activity of vital spirit in nature, which he believed originated from spiritual seeds planted in elementary water. To find the invisible seeds of bodies, van Helmont chemically studied the smoke from combusted solids and liquids. He called this substance \"specific smoke\" (i.e., that which contained the essence of its former material substance) and applied the term \"gas.\" Van Helmont's work included defining operations of the body in chemical terms. He described the body's functions as the chemical reactions of effervescence, fermentation, and putrefaction as the basis of all physiology. Using the texts of Paracelsus and Quercetanus as a guide, he determined that acid was the digestive agent in the stomach, demonstrating a major chemical process within bodily function. He also offered new methods derived from Paracelsus for preparing chemical medicines, advancing in particular recipes involving mercury.\n\nVan Helmont had a bias towards the unity of things. In examining body fluids, he postulated the notion of \"latex,\" attempting to relate latex to secretions and thirst. This implied a common pool of it fluid, participating in more than one of what the Galenists took to be distinct humours. His collected works were edited and published by his son under the title \"Orlus medicinae\" (1648). In it, Helmont shows that the Galenists are in confusion, supposing urine and sweat both to be separated blood serum, and serum itself to be the humour yellow bile, a fluid quite evidently different from it.\n\nVan Helmont's writings had a widespread influence on 17th-century European medical theory, and by 1709, twelve editions of \"Orlus\" \"medicinae\" had been published in five languages. The diffusion of his medical ideas varied by region. In Italy the diffusion of Helmontian ideas was concentrated mainly in Venice, where two influential Helmontians lived: the German physician Tachenius and the Maceratese Ludovico Conti. There is also evidence that Helmontian iatrochemistry was widely diffused in Naples, as attested in the works of two prominent physicians, Lucantonio Porzio and Lionardo di Capua.\n\nIn Germany, van Helmont's philosophy was already a matter of dispute by 1649, and despite censures, Helmontianism gained a large number of followers in Germany. In France, van Helmont's works were immediately perceived as a threat to classical medicine. Guy Patin, a strenuous opponent of chemistry and champion of Greek medicine, sharply attacked van Helmont, while J. Didier published a \"Refutation de la doctrine nouvelle du Sieur Helmont touchant es fievres\" at Sedan in 1653, and, four years later, Helmontian iatrochemistry was censured in a book published by the Paris physician Gabriel Fontaine.\n\nPossibly being one of the most famous physicians of the 17th and 18th centuries, Herman Boerhaave (1668–1738) approached phenomena in medicine with a scientific process of observation and experiments. He is most famous for recreating the Andrea Vesalius book of human anatomy. Boerhaave featured human beings participating in daily activities but with a transparency to them so that their organs could be seen. His fascination with chemistry led him to model the human body in terms of its chemistry in the flows and interactions of the different phases including solids, liquids and gases. In his work, he narrowed down the causes of diseases to a substance called \"acid humour,\" which would affect flow of blood causing unbalance and detrimental chemical reactions, eventually causing malfunctioning of the human body. In a different example, it is documented that Boerhaave observed a certain \"medullary oil\" existed inside of bones which was very important for creating the \"heat and vital motion\" disturbances that could lead to an ill state of the body. A certain accumulation of a fluid in these joints of the body would lead to disastrous stagnancy which would be characterized eventually by gangrenous or unhealthy tissue where this occurred. This medical state was coined as \"imposthumation.\" Boerhaave is, perhaps, most well known in the realm of iatrochemistry for his discussions and understanding of the nervous system. Historians believe that Boerhaave's understanding of the human body and mechanisms in relation to the nervous and physical anatomy came from his personal interactions with soldiers in wars between the Dutch and Spanish. Through his understanding of the human body and chemistry he was able to develop a medicine for physical injuries. Boerhaave attributed fevers to the body's response to a stressful situation or shock, similar to the way that chemical reactions produce heat, in which the body encountered an unexpected onset of heat or freezing temperatures.\n\nA German-born physician, Franciscus Sylvius (1614–1672), is best known in 18th-century European medicine for his contributions to the understanding of the biochemistry of the body and the tubercles, and as one of the co-founders of an iatrochemical school. In continuation of humoral medicine, Sylvius did deem that diseases resulted from excesses of the humors in the body, but he saw it as a more chemically driven excess, specifically one of too much acid or alkali solution in the body. Sylvius had his own laboratory in which he ran experiments on acids and alkali solutions to see the result when different mixtures were made. Much of his theories of the human body were based on the digestive processes. His understanding was that digestion helped food undergo a fermentation reaction. He rationalized that the body functioned mainly as a result of chemical reactions, of which acids and alkali were the essential reactants and were products which needed to be kept in balance to be in a healthy state. Although Sylvius did not take on the more observation-based style of medicine that was being so championed in the 17th and 18th centuries, his emphasis on the chemical reactions and knowledge helped support this more observation-driven scientific approach to medicine. It is known that many of Sylvius' inquiries did help in the future discoveries of certain enzymes driving food digestion and bodily reactions.\n\nThe understanding of iatrochemists helped to drive new knowledge of how drugs work and treat medical conditions. Specifically, one English iatrochemist, Thomas Willis (1621–1675), considered the effect of diaphoretics (sweat-promoting drugs) as resulting from the mechanisms of the drug entering the blood and associating or disturbing blood and flow which produces a state of heat and sweat. He also hypothesized that the working of opiates came from an interaction with a salt in the body that created a painless and woozy feeling when it reached the brain. In his treatise \"De fermentalione\" (1659), Willis rejected the four Aristotelian elements of earth, air, fire and water, stating that they provided no special insight into \"the more secret recesses of nature.\" Willis settled on a view on the organization of natural things based strictly on chemistry. Such a view, he wrote, \"resolves all Bodies into Particles of Spirit, Sulphur, Salt, Water, and Earth ... Because this Hypothesis determinates Bodies into sensible parts, and cutts open things as it were to the life, it pleases us before the rest.\" Willis derived many of his conclusions from observations on distillation. It was eventually realized that these explanations were not accurate.\n\nNatural philosopher Robert Boyle contributed greatly to the understanding of respiration by showing that air (or oxygen), which is required for fire in combustion reactions, is also needed for human breathing. Despite this, Boyle's works on the mechanical origin of qualities were generally rather remote from Helmontian chemistry; however, Boyle's philosophy and Helmontian iatrochemistry were not mutually exclusive. Like van Helmont, Boyle claimed that spirit of human blood, like other ingredients obtained by the chemical analysis of blood, was no simple substance.\n\nIatrochemistry was a new practice in the 17th century, a time when traditional medicines were based on a legacy from the 4th and 5th centuries B.C. Much of this tradition was derived from Galen and Avicenna. The iatrochemists rejected the traditional medical theory, mostly from Galenic traditionalists. Galen traditionalists sought to establish the balance of temperament within the bodies. There are two pairs of qualities, hot and cold, and wet and dry. Sickness came from the imbalance of one quality. That is, a cold was an excess of heat (hot quality), so it can be cured by reducing hot quality or by increasing cold quality. The iatrochemists, influenced by Paracelsus's belief, believed that the sickness was from the outside source, not because of the imbalance of the body.\n\nAnother controversy between Galenic traditionalists and iatrochemists was the way to use herbs. The Galenic traditionalists thought that the strength of remedies relied on the amount of plant materials that was used. The iatrochemists, however, supported the chemical preparation of materials of remedies to increase the effectiveness of the materials or to find the stronger medicine.\n\nAdditionally, Galenic traditionalists argued that chemically prepared medicines were poisonous, and the iatrochemists were inadequately trained. The former was true, and, in some cases, both were correct. Since Paracelsus claimed that poisons could have beneficial medical effects, the number of toxic ingredients used in chemical medicines had increased. Galenic traditionalists later adapted medical method and some remedies to use in their own fields.\n\nIatrochemical principles form a major part of the Indian alchemical tradition (Sanskrit rasaśāstra, रसशास्त्र). Alchemical texts start to be composed in Sanskrit in South Asia from the end of the first millennium CE, and a flourishing literature developed and continued even into the twentieth century. These works contain extensive chapters on the use of alchemical recipes for healing.\n\nThe use of plants, minerals and metals in medical therapeutics also existed in India. In Ayurvedic medicine, substances used in these therapeutics were known as 'Rasa dravyas.' Ayurvedic medicine instills the belief that every material had the potential to be used as a substance. This drove the creation of new products and new uses for common substances in nature. The people of Ayurvedic medicine categorize the materials in nature into three categories: 'Janagama,' substances from animals such as milk, urine, blood, and meat, 'Audbhida' or substances from plants such as stems, roots or leaves, and 'Paarthiwa' or metal/mineral substances such as gold, silver, copper or sulfur. There was especially an emphasis on the element, Mercury, in this culture. The name of these specific practices in Ayurvedic medicine, were termed 'Rasashaastra', which means the \"Science of Mercury.\" which has eventually become known as Iatrochemistry in current terminology. Much of the focus of 'Rasashaastra' was on the processing of these metals to become ingestible by the human body. The therapeutic effect of the materials such as metals and minerals that were known to be indigestible by the human body were combined with plants or animal materials to increase their delivery ability to human body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41362956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362956", "title": "Ichcahuipilli", "text": "Ichcahuipilli\n\nThe ichcahuipilli (from Nahuatl: ichcatl, cotton, and huīpīlli, shirt)(known in Spanish as \"Escaupil\") was a Mesoamerican military armor, similar to the European gambeson, and was commonly used by the Aztecs and the Tlaxcalans. It was constructed of several layers of braided cotton at least 2 inches thick, and hardened with brine and other substances.\n\nThe armor was designed primarily to protect the torso of the warrior from obsidian swords, arrows and atlatl darts, it was made of successive layers of cotton and jute which would gradually slow and trap the arrows, rather than divert them, like European plate armour. Because this armor was padded it protected well against the cutting blows of the macuahuitl and the heavy blows of batons.\n\nIt was a light garment sewn in diamond-shaped patterns, and worn directly over the skin. Usually, the most experienced warriors, especially those of the orders of eagle warriors and jaguar warriors used it to complement the tlahuiztli.\n\nThe garment was so effective at stopping arrows, Spanish conquerors often adopted them instead of their own, heavier armor which was not as cool in the warmer, moisture filled weather of Mexico.\n\nThe Ichcahuipilli was made in different designs. The most common was a vest style that covered the torso down to the hips, but other designs were made and worn by Aztec soldiers of different ranks and warrior societies. The armor came in sleeved variations or in designs that covered most of a warrior's body down to the knees.\n\nFor SpikeTV's reality program Deadliest Warrior, a piece of material designated as ichcahuipilli armor was tested against the iron-tipped arrows of the Azande pima and botto. The armor was able to stop the arrows and even ward off some of them. It was later determined that although the arrows penetrated the material, it was minimal enough not to procure any serious injury.\n\n"}
{"id": "4799454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4799454", "title": "Islam and gender segregation", "text": "Islam and gender segregation\n\nGender segregation in Islamic law, custom and traditions refers to the practices and requirements in Islamic countries and communities for the separation of men and boys from women and girls in social and other settings.\n\nThere is nothing in the Qur'an and the hadith that requires gender segregation, There are diverging opinions among experts in Islamic theology concerning gender segregation. On one side of the spectrum, an Islamic theologian in Canada, Ahmad Kutty, has said segregation of the sexes is not a requirement in Islam, as men and women interacted in Muhammed's time without any partitions. On the other side of the spectrum, an Islamic theologian in Saudi Arabia, Abdul-Rahman al-Barrak, has issued a death warrant in the form of a fatwa against those who allow the mixing of the sexes.\n\nThere are diverging opinions among experts in Islamic theology concerning gender segregation. \n\nThere have been fatwas which forbid free mixing between men and women (known as \"Ikhtilat\"), especially when alone. The objective of the restrictions is to keep such interaction at a modest level. Islamic jurisprudent laws have traditionally ruled that Muslim men and women who are not immediate relatives may not, for instance, socialize in order to know each other with a handshake (for any reason) and any form of contact which involves physical contact, and even verbal contact to a certain extent. \n\nA number of westernized Muslim intellectuals have challenged this view and claim that certain physical contact is permissible as long as there is no obscenity, inappropriate touching (other than a simple handshake), secret meetings or flirting, according to the general rules of interaction between the genders.\n\nThe Qur'anic verses which address the interaction of men and women in the social context include:\n\nThe Prophet Muhammad specifically admonished the men not to keep their wives from going to the mosques:\n\nIbn Umar (Abdullah bin Umar) reported what is translated as:\n\nIt is clear from the following hadith that in some mosques, the women prayed behind the men and were not separated in a separate room or even concealed by a curtain or partition where there wasn't one available (where the screen is practiced in many mosques today, and in the past, it is as a precaution to prevent unnecessary socializing and distraction during prayers):\n\nAsma' bint Abi Bakr (daughter of Abu Bakr) said what is translated as:\n\nAfghanistan, under Taliban religious leadership, was characterized by feminist groups and others as a \"gender apartheid\" system where women are segregated from men in public and do not enjoy legal equality or equal access to employment or education. In Islam women have the right to equal access to employment and education, although their first priority should be that of the family. Men too are said to be actively involved in the child rearing and household chores. Muhammad helped his wives in the house.\n\nIn 1997 the Feminist Majority Foundation launched a \"Campaign to Stop Gender Apartheid in Afghanistan\", which urged the United States government and the United Nations to \"do everything in their power to restore the human rights of Afghan women and girls.\" The campaign included a petition to U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan and U.N. Assistant Secretary General Angela King which stated, in part, that \"We, the undersigned, deplore the Taliban's brutal decrees and gender apartheid in Afghanistan.\"\n\nIn 1998 activists from the National Organization for Women picketed Unocal's Sugar Land, Texas office, arguing that its proposed pipeline through Afghanistan was collaborating with \"gender apartheid\". In a weekly presidential address in November 2001 Laura Bush also accused the Taliban of practicing \"gender apartheid\". \"The Nation\" referred to the Taliban's 1997 order that medical services for women be partly or completely suspended in all hospitals in the capital city of Kabul as \"Health apartheid\".\n\nAccording to the Women's Human Rights Resource Programme of the University of Toronto Bora Laskin Law Library \"Throughout the duration of Taliban rule in Afghanistan, the term \"Gender Apartheid\" was used by a number of women's rights advocates to convey the message that the rights violations experience by Afghan women were in substance no different than those experienced by blacks in Apartheid South Africa.\" \n\nWhen Ruhollah Khomeini called for women to attend public demonstration and ignore the night curfew, millions of women who would otherwise not have dreamed of leaving their homes without their husbands' and fathers' permission or presence, took to the streets. After the Islamic revolution, however, Khomeini publicly announced his disapproval of mixing between the sexes.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, male doctors were not allowed to treat female patients in the past, unless there were no female specialists available; and it was also not permissible for women to treat men. This has changed, however, and it is not uncommon for men and women to visit doctors of the opposite sex.\n\nOf the late 1800s and early 1900s European Jewish immigration to Palestine, Norman Rose writes that secular \"Zionist mores\" were \"often at odds with Arab convention, threatening the customs and moral assumptions that lent cohesion to a socially conservative, traditional Palestinian society.\" The active political role of the women of the \"Yishuv\", and their lack of segregation, was judged as particularly offensive.\n\nSome schools of thought claim that Muhammad preferred women to pray at home rather than at a mosque. According to one hadith, a supposed recounting of an encounter with Muhammad, he said:\n\nMuhammad is also recorded to have said: \"The best places of prayer for women are the innermost apartments of their houses\".\n\nSome schools of thought interpret these hadith as signs that women should be encouraged to pray at home rather than in a mosque. However, other schools prefer to look at the context of the sayings, which they suggest were given at a time when women were in danger when leaving their homes, and consider mosques as welcome for women as their homes. Muhammad did not forbid women from entering his mosque in Medina. In fact, he told Muslims \"not to prevent their women from going to mosque when they ask for permission\".\n\nHowever, segregation of sexes in mosques and prayer spaces is reported in a hadith in Sahih Muslim, one of the two most authentic Hadith books in Islam. It says that the best rows for men are the first rows, and the worst ones the last ones, and the best rows for women are the last ones and the worst ones for them are the first ones.\n\nIt is also recorded that Muhammad ordered that mosques have separate doors for women and men so that men and women would not be obliged to go and come through the same door. He also commanded that after the Isha' evening prayer, women be allowed to leave the mosque first so that they would not have to mix with men. But it has not been reported that there was any barrier between men and women in the prophet's mosque.\n\nAfter Muhammad's death, many of his followers began to forbid women under their control from going to the mosque. Aisha bint Abi Bakr, a wife of Muhammad, once said, \"If the Prophet had lived now and if he saw what we see of women today, he would have forbidden women to go to the mosque even as the Children of Israel forbade their women.\"\n\nThe second caliph Umar also prohibited women from attending mosques especially at night because he feared they may be sexually harassed or assaulted by men, and he asked them to pray at home.\n\nAs Islam spread, it became unusual for women to worship in mosques because of male fear of immorality between sexes.\n\nSometimes a special part of the mosque was railed off for women. For example, the governor of Mecca in 870 had ropes tied between the columns to make a separate place for women.\nMany mosques today put the women behind a barrier or partition or in another room. Mosques in South and Southeast Asia put men and women in separate rooms, as the divisions were built into them centuries ago. In nearly two-thirds of American mosques, women pray behind partitions or in separate areas, not in the main prayer hall; some mosques do not admit women at all due to the lack of space and the fact that some prayers, such as the Friday Jumuʻah, are mandatory for men but optional for women. Although there are sections exclusively for women and children, the Grand Mosque in Mecca is desegregated.\n\nThere is a growing women's movement led by figures such as Asra Nomani who protest against their second-class status and facilities.\n\nJustifications for segregation, include the need to avoid distraction during prayer, although the primary reason cited is that this was the tradition (sunnah) of worshipers in the time of Muhammad.\n\nBritish-born Muslim author Ed Husain argues that rather than keeping sexual desires under check, gender segregation creates \"pent-up sexual frustration which expressed itself in the unhealthiest ways,\" and leads young people to \"see the opposite gender only as sex objects.\" \nWhile working in Saudi Arabia for seven months as an English teacher, the Arabic-speaking Husain was surprised to find that despite compulsory gender segregation and full hijab, Saudi men were much less modest and more predatory towards women than men in other countries he had lived. In Saudiunlike in Britain, or the more secular Syrian Arab Republic — students commonly downloaded hardcore pornography off the internet in violation of school rules. Despite the modest dress of his wifewho \"out of respect for local custom, ... wore the long black abaya and covered her hair in a black scarf\"she was on two occasions \"accosted by passing Saudi youths from their cars. ... In supermarkets I only had to be away from [my wife] for five minutes and Saudi men would hiss or whisper obscenities as they walked past.\" Discussions with local women at the British Council indicated that her experience was far from unique.\n\nCase studies:\n\n"}
{"id": "28022352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28022352", "title": "Joe A. Martinez", "text": "Joe A. Martinez\n\nJoseph Anthony Martinez (born April 10, 1975 in Apple Valley, California) is the ring announcer for Golden Boy Promotions' \"Golden Boy Boxing on ESPN” A Communications graduate of California State University, Fullerton, Martinez began his professional career in 1996 as both the public address announcer for the Lake Elsinore Storm Minor League Baseball team (a San Diego Padres affiliate) and various Cal State Fullerton athletic programs. He retired from the Storm and Cal State Fullerton in 2017 and moved from Orange County, CA to North Georgia. Martinez has been the main ring announcer for Golden Boy Boxing since 2011 and has also been an occasional Octagon announcer for UFC since 2007, carrying over from the now merged World Extreme Cagefighting. \nMartinez was twice featured on Sony Playstation’s MLB The Show in 2006 and 2007. He has also been on two episodes of Kingdom a television drama on Audience Network and appeared in an AMP Energy Drink commercial. \nMartinez is married and has two children with his wife Lena and two step-daughters. He is a Christian minister and founder of Anchor of Hope Ministries and member of the Rock Church (Anaheim, CA).\n\nIn 1996, Martinez began his career as a public address announcer for the Lake Elsinore Storm, a Minor League team affiliate of the San Diego Padres. He announced the Women's College World Series in 1998 and a U.S. Olympic Softball Team tour in 2000. From 2001 to 2002, he worked for The Harlem Globetrotters.\n\nMartinez became the featured ring announcer for Oscar De La Hoya's, Fox reality television series \"The Next Great Champ\" in 2004. In 2006 he began announcing for Guilty Boxing Promotions on ESPN Deportes. Now he can be seen announcing for Golden Boy Promotions and other promotions on various networks around the world.\n\nJoe was the exclusive cage announcer for World Extreme Cagefighting from 2007-2010. In 2010, WEC was merged into UFC by parent company Zuffa, LLC. Since then, he has worked with Cage Warriors Fighting Championship, announcing fights across the globe. UFC brought Martinez in for the first time at the in Australia on December 14, 2012. He was later used again January 4, 2014, at , an event that was the UFC's debut in Singapore. His third UFC appearance was on June 28, 2014 at in Auckland, New Zealand and his fourth was at in Sydney, Australia. In 2015 he announced UFC in Brisbane, Australia. His next event was on July 15, 2015 in San Diego, CA, and did not return to announcing for the UFC until July 13, 2016. He announced 10 UFC Fight Nights in 2017 and is scheduled for another 10 in 2018. \n\nJoe is currently the ring announcer for Invicta FC, PFL, UFC and Golden Boy Promotions.\n\nSony PlayStation MLB 06, MLB 07, \"King of the Diamond\" - In-game Public Address Announcer (2006)(2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "5342983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5342983", "title": "Jueves negro", "text": "Jueves negro\n\nJueves negro (English: \"Black Thursday\") refers to a violent series of political demonstrations that created havoc in Guatemala City on 24 and 25 July 2003.\n\nIn May 2003, the Guatemalan Republican Front (FRG) political party selected former military dictator Efraín Ríos Montt as its candidate for the forthcoming November general election. However, his candidacy was initially rejected by the electoral registry and by two lower courts, on the grounds of a constitutional ban preventing former coup leaders from seeking the presidency (Ríos Montt had originally come to power by means of a coup d'état on 23 March 1982). On 14 July 2003, the Constitutional Court, which had had several judges appointed from the FRG, approved his candidacy for president, arguing that the terms of the 1985 Constitution could not be applied retroactively. \n\nOn 20 July, however, the Supreme Court suspended his campaign for the presidency and agreed to hear a complaint brought by two right-of-centre parties that the general was constitutionally barred from running for president of the country. Ríos Montt denounced the ruling as judicial manipulation and, in a radio address, called on his followers to take to the streets to protest against this decision. On 24 July, the day known as \"'jueves negro',\" thousands of masked FRG supporters invaded the streets of Guatemala City, armed with machetes, clubs and guns. They had been bussed in from all over the country by the FRG amidst claims that people working in FRG-controlled municipalities were being blackmailed with being sacked if they did not attend the demonstration. The demonstrators blocked traffic, chanted threatening slogans, and waved their machetes about.\n\nThey were led by well known FRG militants, including a well known member of Congress, who was photographed by the press early in the morning while co-ordinating the actions, and the secretary of Ríos Montt's daughter, Zury. The demonstrators marched on the courts, the opposition parties headquarters, and newspapers, torching buildings, shooting out windows and burning cars and tyres in the streets. A TV journalist, Héctor Ramírez, intervened to try and save a colleague who was being attacked by the demonstrators and died of a heart attack while running away from the mob. The situation was so chaotic over the weekend that both the UN mission and the U.S. embassy were closed.\n\nFollowing the rioting, the Constitutional Court, packed with allies of Ríos Montt and his protégé, President Alfonso Portillo, overturned the Supreme Court decision, upholding Ríos Montt's claim that the ban on coup leaders, formalized in the 1985 Constitution, could not be applied retroactively to acts before that date. Many Guatemalans expressed anger over the Court's decision.\n\nGen. Ríos Montt went on to be placed third in the November presidential vote, behind Álvaro Colom and Óscar Berger. \n\nCriminal charges were brought against seven FRG members for their role in inciting the riot and the manslaughter of Ramírez: Gen. Ríos Montt himself; Ingrid Elaine Argueta Sosa, his niece; Waleska Sánchez Velásquez, the secretary of Zury Ríos Montt; Jorge Arévalo, a congressional deputy; and Raúl Manchamé Leiva, a former director of the national police. All were placed under house arrest. The charges against Gen. Ríos Montt were dismissed in January 2006.\n\nIn a related case, Carlos Ríos and four other members of the FRG were sentenced to three-year prison terms for racial discrimination (Guatemala's first such prosecution) for having levelled ethnic slurs at Nobel Peace Prize winner Rigoberta Menchú during a later challenge lodged with the Constitutional Court. By paying stiffer fines in accordance with Guatemalan law, however, the five were able to escape serving jail time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36495388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36495388", "title": "Kazan phenomenon", "text": "Kazan phenomenon\n\nThe Kazan phenomenon () was a term used by journalists to describe the rise in street gang activity in the city of Kazan in the RSFSR and later, the Russian Federation. \n\nFrom the early 1970s, Kazan had a particularly bad reputation for juvenile delinquency, and a substantial portion of young males in the area of both Russian and Tatar background joined youth gangs, which fought amongst each other for territory, principally using improvised or melee weapons (firearms are not widespread in Russia and are hard to come by). The crime wave caused a moral panic amongst the Soviet population, as not only was such criminality traditionally seen as a product of the capitalist West, but it also involved the children of local officials.\n\nDuring the rise of the Russian mafia in the late 1980s and 1990s, the street gangs grew into more sophisticated and organised criminal enterprises. Due to the lack of profitability in running protection rackets in Tatarstan, the Kazan gangs started to move to St Petersburg, where they got into conflict with the local Tambov gang. The Kazan mafia was known to be particularly cruel in their extortion tactics, and periodically brought in reinforcements from Tatarstan. The Slavic gangsters of the city banded together to fight this emerging threat, and eventually forced the Tatars out of St Petersburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1742837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742837", "title": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters", "text": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters\n\nMany advertising characters used as mascots and characters by companies in Australia and New Zealand are similar to those used in the United States and the United Kingdom. There are, however, quite a number that are unique to these two nations.\n\nMany advertisements shown on New Zealand television are made in Australia, and many Australian and New Zealand companies operate similar businesses on both sides of the Tasman Sea. As such, there is considerable overlap in advertising characters and mascots found in the two countries.\n\nThe following is a list of notable mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes in Australia and New Zealand, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2253313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253313", "title": "List of disability rights activists", "text": "List of disability rights activists\n\nA disability-rights activist or disability-rights advocate is someone who works towards the equality of people with disabilities. Such a person is generally considered a member of the disability-rights movement and/or the independent-living movement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58433201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58433201", "title": "List of professional wrestling awards", "text": "List of professional wrestling awards\n\nThis is a list of professional wrestling awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "14566210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14566210", "title": "Madeleine Cosman", "text": "Madeleine Cosman\n\nMadeleine Pelner Cosman (December 4, 1937 – March 2, 2006) was a scholar, a policy analyst, an advocate, a prolific author, and a faculty member at City College of New York. \"As a medical lawyer, educator and health-care policy guru, she testified before Congress, wrote 15 books and buttressed conservative politicians' arguments against immigration\"\"She was recruited by all these politicians to present ideas with coherence, logic and dramatic flair,\" her daughter said. \"But before the political world took notice, the intellectual world was pretty much aware of her.\" Lecture appointments took Cosman throughout the United States and to Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Israel, and Western Europe. She also contributed to think tanks that reflected her philosophy on medical and legal issues, the Cato Institute and Galen Institute. Cosman died in Escondido, Calif. She was 68. The cause was complications of scleroderma, a chronic disease of the connective tissue, her family said.\n\nCosman's degrees include\n\nCosman was a professor in the Department of English at City College of New York from 1964 until her retirement in 1993. She was a member of the New York Academy of Medicine and a Professor of Medical Law.\n\nIn 1968, Cosman became founding director of the City College of New York Institute for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, which granted undergraduate and graduate degrees. From the 1970s she helped organize the Renaissance Fair at The Cloisters. She was also a scholar of medieval medicine. Her book, \"Fabulous Feasts: Medieval Cookery and Ceremony\" (1976) was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award.\n\nAccording to one obituary, she lectured for years \"on cable television at the Metropolitan Museum of New York on medieval daily life. She was deeply passionate about ideas and her gift was to share her ideas with an intelligent audience.\"\n\n\"She never practised law,\" her daughter said. \"She used her knowledge of the law to be more effective as a policy analyst.\" \"Known for an engaging speaking style that illuminated her legal savvy, Cosman was a favorite guest on talk radio.\" She was a board member of the California Rifle and Pistol Association.\n\nFor nearly 30 years, Cosman taught medical students medical law, medical business and medical history at City College of City University of New York. and was a strong advocate for personal choice of one's own medical care. Her views spawned an hourlong presentation on C-span titled \"Who owns your body\" as well as books titled \"ABCs of the Clinton Medical World\" (published 1993) and \"Selling the Medical Practice: The Physicians and Surgeons Guide\" (published 1988)\n\nCosman appeared frequently with host Mark Edwards of \"Wake Up America\" and provided the medical legal data for \"Hold Their Feet to the Fire,\" a project of Americans for Legal Immigration - ALIPAC. One article she wrote for the \"Journal of American Physicians and Surgeons\" titled \"Illegal Aliens and American Medicine\" stated: \n\n\"Horrendous diseases that long ago America had conquered are resurging,\" she wrote last April. \"Horrific diseases common in Third World poverty and medical ignorance suddenly are appearing in American emergency rooms and medical offices.\" \n\nAlso, she argued that 80 California hospitals closed between 1994 and 2003 because of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act requirement that those hospitals provide services (including childbirth) to illegal aliens in the emergency room regardless of their ability to pay.\n\nCritics have objected that many of her controversial claims on immigration and medicine are not authoritative due her lack of credentials. A reporter on Lou Dobbs' CNN program had cited as facts Cosman's claims that there were over a period of three years 7000 cases of leprosy in the United States and that many of them were the result of illegal immigrants bringing the disease into the country when the statistics show the number was for a 30-year period and unrelated to immigration. Dobbs has since rejected the claims as unsubstantiated.\n\nCosman has also been accused of anti-Mexican bias. For example, railing against criminals from the immigrant community, she made the following ominous warning: \"Recognize that most of these bastards molest girls under age twelve, some as young as age five, others age three. Although, of course, some specialize in boys, some specialize in nuns, some are exceedingly versatile and rape little girls age eleven and women up to age seventy-nine.\"\n"}
{"id": "40538415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40538415", "title": "Mary Beth Tinker", "text": "Mary Beth Tinker\n\nMary Beth Tinker is an American free speech activist known for her role in the 1969 \"Tinker v. Des Moines Independent School District\" Supreme Court case, which ruled that Warren Harding Junior High School could not punish her for wearing a black armband in school in support of a truce in the Vietnam War. The case set a precedent for student speech in schools.\n\nWhen Tinker was 13, she wore a black armband to school in protest of the United States' involvement in Vietnam as a member of a group of students who decided to do this.\n\nOn December 11, 1965, a student named Christopher Eckhardt held a meeting with a large group of students at his home in Des Moines, Iowa. Planning a school protest against the Vietnam War, the group decided to wear black armbands in school on December 16. They chose to keep wearing them until January 1, 1966. During a meeting for Des Moines School District principals on December 14, 1965, a policy was adopted that required all students wearing armbands in school to remove them. In this meeting, principals agreed that students were to be suspended if they disagreed.\n\nThirteen-year-old Mary Beth Tinker was a student at Warren Harding Junior High who was among two dozen elementary, middle, and high school students that wore black arm bands to school on December 16 and 17. Five students were singled out for punishment, including Mary Beth and her brother John.\n\nTinker reported that immediately after being suspended, her family received many threats from the public. \"A man who had a radio talk show threatened my father on the air. Red paint was thrown on our house. A woman called on the phone, asked for me by name, and then said, 'I’m going to kill you!'\"\n\nOn December 21, 200 people attended the district school board meeting. Deciding to postpone a decision, at a January 3 meeting, the school board voted 5-2 to uphold the principals' ban. On March 14, the Iowa Civil Liberties Union filed a formal complaint on behalf of Christopher Eckhardt, John Tinker, his sister Mary Beth, and their fathers in the U. S. District Court of the Southern District of Iowa. The case claimed that by suspending them, Des Moines Public Schools had infringed on their right to free expression as enshrined in First Amendment. The District Court dismissed the complaint and upheld the constitutionality of the school actions, on the basis that the students disturbed learning in their schools.\n\nAfter that, the justices for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 8th Circuit were split, leaving the District Court ruling standing. The case reached the Supreme Court on November 12, 1968. On February 24, 1969, the Supreme Court found that by suspending Tinker and her peers for wearing the armbands, Des Moines School District violated the students' First Amendment rights. The Supreme Court’s decision in Tinker is said to have set the legal standard for student free expression for many years.\n\nToday, Tinker conducts speaking tours across the United States to teach children and youth about their rights. A youth rights advocate, Tinker has a professional background as a pediatric nurse who is active in union activism and holds masters degrees in both public health and nursing. \n\nAccording to the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", in fall 2013, Tinker began a national tour promoting youth activism and youth rights with student rights attorney Mike Hiestand known as the \"Tinker Tour\". During the fall of 2013, the pair traveled 15,595 miles across the American east coast, midwest and southeast speaking to more than 20,000 students and teachers at 58 stops, including schools, colleges, churches, a youth detention facility, courts and several national conventions. The tour was scheduled to visit schools and events in the American west, midwest and southwest during the spring of 2014.\n\nIn 2000, an annual youth advocacy award of the Marshall-Brennan Project at Washington College of Law at American University honored Tinker by naming the award after her. In 2006, the ACLU National Board of Directors’ Youth Affairs Committee renamed its annual youth affairs award the Mary Beth Tinker Youth Involvement Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "21311857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21311857", "title": "Mro People", "text": "Mro People\n\nThe Mro People () are one of the 135 ethnic groups recognized by the government of Myanmar.They are identified as a sub-group of Chin people. Also known as Mro, Mro (Wakim), Awa Khami, Khami, Khumi Awa, Mro-Khimi, “Kwe Myi” in Myanmar.The live widely in some parts of northern Rakine state, Chin state, the townships of Matupi and Paletwa, and the regions of Samechaung and Michaung. They are Tibeto-Burman and have their own language, culture and customs which are still in existence.For Chin specifically, the Awa Khami are one of 53 sub-groups identified by the government of Myanmar.\n\nThe Mro People still believe animism as their custome, especially for their traditional festival. Merely 36.60%. \n\nThe Mro practise both animism and Buddhism. A strong Buddhist influence exists as about 55% of the population adhering to Theravada Buddhism, a common sect of Buddhism eminent throughout mainland Southeast Asia, especially in Myanmar (Burma) and Thailand. \n\nMerely 7.14% of the Mro adheres to Christianity. New Testament was translated into Mro language in 2017.\n\nThey primarily speak the Mro language, Kuki-Chin language of Burma, Mro is spoken in the following townships of Myanmar (\"Ethnologue\").\n\nThere are 4 main dialects of Mro (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n\nArang (Ahraing Khami, Areung, Aroeng), Xengna (Hrengna), Xata, Vakung (Wakun, Wakung). Generally high comprehension of Vakung dialect among other dialect speakers. Wakun (Vakung) is the most widely spoken and understood dialect (Horney 2009:5) and basis of literature. Lexical similarity: 91%–98% within Mro(Khimi) varieties, 86%–90% with Likhy variety of Eastern Khumi [cek], 81%–85% with Lemi variety of Eastern Khumi [cek], 77%–81% with Kaladan Khumi [cnk].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38175404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38175404", "title": "North Korean cult of personality", "text": "North Korean cult of personality\n\nThe North Korean cult of personality surrounding its ruling family, the Kim family, has existed in North Korea for decades and can be found in many examples of North Korean culture. Although not acknowledged by the North Korean government, many defectors and Western visitors state there are often stiff penalties for those who criticize or do not show \"proper\" respect for the regime. The personality cult began soon after Kim Il-sung took power in 1948, and was greatly expanded after his death in 1994.\n\nThe cult is also marked by the intensity of the people's feelings for and devotion to their leaders, and the key role played by a Confucianized ideology of familism both in maintaining the cult and thereby in sustaining the regime itself. The North Korean cult of personality is a large part of North Korean socialism and totalitarianism.\n\nAccording to Suh Dae-sook, the cult of personality surrounding the Kim family requires total loyalty and subjugation to the Kim family and establishes the country as a one-man dictatorship through successive generations. The 1972 constitution of North Korea incorporates the ideas of Kim Il-sung as the only guiding principle of the state and his activities as the only cultural heritage of the people. According to \"New Focus International\", the cult of personality, particularly surrounding Kim Il-sung, has been crucial for legitimizing the family's hereditary succession, and Park Yong-soo said in the \"Australian Journal of International Affairs\" that the \"prestige of the Suryong [supreme leader] has\nbeen given the highest priority over everything else in North Korea\".\n\nKim Il-sung developed the political ideology of the \"Juche\" idea, generally understood as \"self-reliance\", and further developed it between the 1950s and the 1970s. \"Juche\" became the main guide of all forms of thought, education, culture and life throughout the nation until Kim Jong-il introduced the \"Songun\" (military-first) policy, which augments the \"Juche\" philosophy and has a great impact on national economic policies.\n\nAt the 4th Party Conference held in April 2012, Kim Jong-un further defined \"Juche\" as the comprehensive thought of Kim Il-sung, developed and deepened by Kim Jong-il, therefore terming it as \"Kimilsungism-Kimjongilism\" and that it was \"the only guiding idea of the party\" and nation.\n\nAccording to a 2013 report by \"New Focus International\", the two major Korean news publications (\"Rodong Sinmun\" and the Korean Central News Agency) publish around 300 articles per month relating to the \"cult of Kim\". The report further suggests that with the death of Kim Jong-il, the average North Korean citizen is growing weary of the vast amount of propaganda surrounding the Kims. \"Daily NK\" likewise published in 2015 that the younger generation is more interested in the outside world and that the government is finding it difficult to secure the loyalty of the \"jangmadang\" (marketplace) generation and promoting the idolization of Kim Jong-un.\n\nThe North Korean government claims there is no cult of personality, but rather genuine hero worship.\n\nThe personality cult surrounding Kim Il-sung is by far the most widespread\namong the people. While there is genuine affection for Kim Il-sung, it has been manipulated by the government for political purposes.\n\nThe cult had its beginnings as early as 1949, with the appearance of the first statues of Kim Il-sung. The veneration of Kim Il-sung came into full effect following a mass purge in 1953. In 1967, Kim Jong-il was appointed to the state propaganda and information department, where he began to focus his energy on developing the veneration of his father. It was around this time that the title \"Suryong\" (Great Leader or Supreme Leader) came into habitual usage. However, Kim Il-sung had begun calling himself \"Great Leader\" as early as 1949.\n\nHwang Jang-yop, the highest level North Korean defector, has said that the country is completely ruled by the sole ideology of the \"Great Leader\". He further said that during the De-Stalinization period in the USSR, when Stalin's cult of personality was dismantled in 1956, some North Korean students studying in the Soviet Union also began to criticize Kim Il-sung's growing personality cult and when they returned home they \"were subject to intensive interrogation that lasted for months\" and \"Those found the least bit suspicious were killed in secret\".\n\nAccording to official biographies, Kim Il-sung came from a long lineage of leaders and official North Korean modern history focuses on his life and activities. He is credited with almost single-handedly defeating the Japanese at the end of the occupation of Korea (ignoring Soviet and American efforts) and with rebuilding the nation after the Korean War. Over the course of his life he was granted titles of esteem such as \"Sun\", \"Great Chairman\", \"Heavenly Leader\" and many others, as well as awards like the \"Double Hero Gold Medal\". These titles and awards were often self-given and the practice would be repeated by his son. The Korean Central News Agency (the official government news agency) continually reported on the titles and perceived affection granted to Kim Il-sung by world leaders including Mao Zedong of China, Fidel Castro of Cuba and Jimmy Carter of the United States.\nAll major publications (newspapers, textbooks etc.) were to include \"words of instruction\" from Kim Il-sung.\nAdditionally, his name must be written as a single word in one line, it may not be split into two parts if there is a page break or the line of text runs out of room (for example: Kim Il-sung, not Kim Il-...sung).\n\nNorth Korean children were taught in school that they were fed, clothed and nurtured in all aspects by the \"grace of the Chairman\". The larger elementary schools in the country have a room set aside for lectures that deal specifically with Kim Il-sung (known as the Kim Il-sung Research Institute). These rooms are well taken care of, are built of high quality materials, and have a model of his birthplace in Mangyongdae-guyok. The size of the images of him which adorned public buildings are regulated to be in proportion to the size of the building on which they hang. His place of birth has also become a place of pilgrimage.\n\nKang Chol-hwan wrote of his childhood in North Korea: To my childish eyes and to those of all my friends, Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il were perfect beings, untarnished by any base human function. I was convinced, as we all were, that neither of them urinated or defecated. Who could imagine such things of gods? \n\nIn his memoir, Kim Il-sung tells an anecdote involving his father and grandfather that gives the rationale for this sanitized presentation of North Korean leaders to their followers. The memoir says that as a young pupil, Kim Il-sung's father was often sent to fetch wine for one of his teachers, who drank frequently, until one day his father saw the drunken teacher fall face-first into a ditch. This led to a confrontation in which the young pupil shamed the embarrassed teacher into giving up wine altogether. Kim Il-sung's grandfather draws the moral of this story: My grandfather's opinion was this: If pupils peep into their teacher's private life frequently, they lose their awe of him; the teacher must give his pupils the firm belief that their teacher neither eats nor urinates; only then can he maintain his authority at school; so a teacher should set up a screen and live behind it.\n\nBiographer Dae-Sook Suh notes: The magnitude of adulation often borders on fanaticism. His photograph is displayed ahead of the national flag and national emblem; the song of Marshal Kim Il-sung is played ahead of the national anthem; the best institution of higher learning is named after him; the highest party school is also named after him; and there are songs, poems, essays, stories, and even a flower named after him.\n\nThe Kimilsungia is an orchid named after Kim Il-sung by Indonesian former president Sukarno. It was named after him in 1965 during a visit to the Bogor Botanical Gardens. According to a 2005 speech by Kim Jong-il, Sukarno and the garden's director wanted to name the flower after Kim Il-sung. Kim Il-sung declined, yet Sukarno insisted, \"No. You have rendered enormous services to mankind, so you deserve a high honour.\" Domestically, the flowers (and the Kimjongilia, described below) are used in idolizing the leadership.\n\nWhen Kim Il-sung died in 1994, Kim Jong-il declared a national mourning period for three years. Those who were found violating the mourning rules (such as drinking) were met with punishment. After his death he was referred to as the \"Eternal President\". In 1998 the national constitution was changed to reflect this. When his father died, Kim Jong-il greatly expanded the nation's cult of personality.\n\nIn 1997, the Juche Era dating system, which begins with the birth of Kim Il-sung (April 15, 1912) as year 1, was introduced and replaced the Gregorian calendar. The year 2018 would thus correspond to Juche (there is no year 0).\n\nJuly 8, 2014 marked the 20th anniversary of Kim Il-sung's death. North Korean authorities declared a ten-day mourning period which ran from July 1 to July 10. The anniversary involved lectures, study sessions, local choirs, etc., with children and workers being mobilized to take part in the various events. According to a resident of Hyesan, \"Nowadays people are having a hard time... as events related to the passing of the Suryeong are going on every single day in the Democratic Women's Union and workplaces alike\". Nevertheless, the resident said, \"Nobody is complaining about it, maybe because ever since the purge of Jang Song-taek last year, if you picked a fight they'd just drag you away\".\n\nIn keeping with the modern mythologies that pervade North Korea's version of history, which is seen as crucial to the cult of personality and political control, it is alleged that Kim Jong-il was born on Mount Paektu at his father's secret base in 1942 (his actual birth was in 1941 in the Soviet Union) and that his birth was heralded by a swallow, caused winter to change to spring, a star to illuminate the sky, and a double rainbow spontaneously appeared.\n\nThese claims, like those surrounding his father, are apocryphal and continued throughout his life.\n\nStarting in the early 1970s Kim Il-sung began to contemplate the succession question, albeit surreptitiously at first, but by 1975 Kim Jong-il was referred to as the \"party center\", or in connection with his father with references to \"our great \"suryong\" (supreme leader) and the party center\". In 1977, the first confirmation of Kim Jong-il's succession by name was published in a booklet which designated the younger Kim as the only heir to Kim Il-sung, that he was a loyal servant of his father and had inherited his father's virtues, and that all party members were to pledge their loyalty to Kim Jong-il. They were also urged to support his absolute authority and to obey him unconditionally.\n\nPrior to 1996, Kim Jong-il forbade the erection of statues of himself and discouraged portraits.\nHowever, in 1996, schools were required to build a separate room for lectures dealing specifically with Kim Jong-il known as the Kim Jong-il Research Institute. They include a model of his birthplace. There are approximately 40,000 \"research institutes\" (total includes both Kim Il-Sung's and Kim Jong-il's) throughout the country.\n\nBetween 1973 and 2012, Jong-il accumulated no fewer than 54 titles, most of which had little to do or nothing at all with real political or military accomplishments since he never had any military training.\n\nOver the course of his life, the government issued numerous propaganda reports of the great accomplishments achieved by Kim Jong-il, such as that he could walk and talk before the age of six months. The North Korean newspaper, \"Rodong Sinmun\", reported that an \"unidentified French fashion expert\" said of Kim's fashion, \"Kim Jong-il mode, which is now spreading expeditiously worldwide, is something unprecedented in the world's history\"; and that he could control the weather based on his mood. The Korean Central News Agency has also reported, among other things, that according to eye witness accounts \"nature and the sky unfolded such mysterious ecstasy in celebration of the birthday of Kim Jong Il.\"\n\nTo commemorate Kim Jong-il's 46th birthday, Japanese botanist Kamo Mototeru cultivated a new perennial begonia named \"Kimjongilia\" (literally, \"flower of Kim Jong-il\").\n\nAfter his death on December 17, 2011, the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) said that layers of ice ruptured with an unprecedentedly loud crack at Chon Lake on Mount Paektu and a snowstorm with strong winds hit the area.\nA political paper by his son, Kim Jong-un, sought to solidify his father as the \"Eternal General Secretary of our Party.\" Many had been seen weeping during the 100-day mourning period, which is typical of Korean Confucian society, and an analyst at South Korea's Korea Institute for National Unification determined that much of the public grief evidenced during the mourning period was a genuine expression of sorrow. Yet, a journalist from the West questioned the sincerity of the displays of grief.\n\nSimilar to the mourning period of Kim Il-sung, individuals who did not follow the 100-day mourning period regulations or were thought to be insincere in their grief were subject to punishment and in some cases may have been executed. A notable example of this was the alleged death of Kim Chol and other high-ranking officials. However, in the case of Chol, doubts have been raised as to the credibility of the original account with \"Foreign Policy\" stating that stories about violent deaths of North Korean elites tend to be \"exaggerated\" and observing the version of events disseminated by South Korean media was likely based on \"gossip\".\n\nSeveral large-scale bronze statues have been erected alongside statues of Kim Il-sung. They include a statue of Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung each riding a horse (the first large monument built after Kim Jong-il's death) and a tall statue at Mansudae, Pyongyang. The government has also been replacing statues of Kim Il-sung with updated versions along with new statues of Kim Jong-il beside the ones of his father in each of the provincial capitals and other sites.\n\nFollowing his death, numerous commemorative stamps and coins were made and slogans have been carved on the sides of mountains in honor of his 70th birthday anniversary.\n\nKim Jong-un, the grandson of North Korea's founder, was largely absent from the public and government service until the mid-2000s. In 2010 he began being referred to as the \"Young General\" and by late 2011 as \"Respected General\". Like his father, he lacks any formal military training or service. With the death of his father, state media began to refer to him as the \"Great Successor.\" Many also refer to him as “Supreme Leader”. When he was still a new ruler, the development of his own personality cult was well underway, with large numbers of posters, signs, and other propaganda being placed all over the country. A journalist from Japan's Asahi Shimbun said that his striking likeness in appearance to Kim Il-sung has helped solidify him as the undisputed ruler in the minds of the people.\n\nKim Jong-un marks the third generation of Kim family dynastic leadership. According to \"Daily NK\", people who criticized the succession were sent to re-education camps or otherwise punished and, after the mourning period of Kim Jong-il, government authorities began to increase their efforts on building the idolization of Kim Jong-un.\n\nAfter Kim Jong-il's death the president of the Presidium announced that \"Respected Comrade Kim Jong-un is our party, military and country’s supreme leader who inherits great comrade Kim Jong-il's ideology, leadership, character, virtues, grit and courage.\"\n\nShortly after the new leader came to power, a -long propaganda sign was erected in his honor near a lake in Ryanggang Province. The sign, supposedly visible from space, reads \"Long Live General Kim Jong-un, the Shining Sun!\"\n\nIn 2013, the Workers' Party of Korea amended the \"Ten Principles for the Establishment of a Monolithic Ideological System\", which in practice serves as the primary legal authority and framework of the country, to demand \"absolute obedience\" to Kim Jong-un.\n\nKim Jong-un's uncle, Jang Sung-taek, was executed on December 12, 2013. His death was attributed, in part, to undermining the Kim family personality cult. His death has also been seen as a move by Kim Jong-un to consolidate his own cult.\n\nIn 2015, at the end of the formal three-year mourning period for the death of Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un ordered the construction of new monuments to be built in every county of North Korea. Extensive renovations to the Kumsusan Memorial Palace have also been ordered. According to \"The Daily Telegraph\", analysts \"say the order to erect more statues to the Kim family will be a heavy financial burden on an economy that is already struggling due to years of chronic mismanagement and international sanctions\".\n\nThe first monument to be at least partially dedicated to Kim Jong-un was announced in January 2017. It is to be constructed on Mt. Paektu and also includes monuments dedicated to Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il. Additionally, stand alone \"mosaic murals\" of Kim Jong-un are being planned for major cities in each province.\n\nThe personality cult extends to other members of the Kim family, although to a lesser degree.\n\nAccording to the official North Korean history, Kim Ung-u, Kim Il-sung’s paternal great-grandfather, fought against the American schooner USS \"General Sherman\" in the 1866 incident and was also an anti-Japanese activist. However, these claims remain unsubstantiated and many historians outside of North Korea doubt their legitimacy.\n\nKang Pan-sok was the first member of the Kim family to have a cult of personality of her own to supplement that of her son, from the late 1960s onwards. In addition to a museum and statue in Chilgol, her birthplace, she has been given the title \"Mother of Korea\" and has had songs and articles written in praise of her.\n\nKim Hyong-jik, the father of Kim Il-sung, is venerated by official North Korean historiographies for having been a prominent leader of the anti-colonial Korean independence movement. In fact, official sources claim that Kim not only led the March 1st Uprising of 1919, but also that it took place in Pyongyang—both blatant fabrications. While in reality Kim was at one point briefly detained for anti-Japanese activities, most outside scholars do not support claims of anything further. In fact, according to biographer Dae-Sook Suh, efforts to describe Kim Hyong-jik as playing a major role in the anti-Japanese struggle \"seem to be directed more toward upgrading the attributes of Kim [Il-sung] as a pious son.\" This attribution became important as Kim Il-sung used these stories to aid his ascent to power.\n\nKim Hyong-jik currently has a museum and statue dedicated to him in his hometown of Bonghwari.\n\nKim Hyong-gwon, paternal uncle of Kim Il-Sung and brother of Kim Hyong-jik, is honored in North Korea as an anti-Japanese activist because he skirmished with local police, for which he was arrested and later died on January 12, 1936 during internment in Seoul. There is a statue in his honor in Hongwon, the site of the skirmish.\n\nKim Jong-suk (Kim Jong-il's mother) is described as \"a revolutionary immortal\" and \"an anti-Japanese war hero [who] upheld the original idea and policy of Kim Il Sung and performed distinguished feats in the development of the movement for the women's emancipation in Korea.\" She is typified as a model revolutionary, wife, and maternal figure, and North Korean society looks to stories of her as examples of how to live life.\n\nAlthough she was first lady of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in the first year of its founding in 1948, she died in 1949, and starting in 1974, in conjunction with her son Kim Jong-il's rise to position as the heir apparent, she was increasingly praised and her accomplishments memorialized throughout the nation. A museum and statue was built in her home town in her honor and she was called an \"indomitable Communist revolutionary\" by Kim Sung-ae who was Kim Il-sung's then present wife, despite being largely ignored until this point. Thus, originally she was honored as a guerrilla, but not necessarily as a mother or wife. In the 1990s, Kim Jong-suk’s portrait was even added to those of Kim Il-Sung and Kim Jong-Il, which were displayed in every household and building and treated as sacred objects of veneration and worship. Furthermore, when referring to the \"three Great Generals of Paekdu Mountain,\" a sacred dormant volcano on North Korea's northern border with China, North Koreans understand this to mean Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong Suk, and their son Kim Jong Il.\nThere is a wax replica of her in the International Friendship Exhibition.\n\nFamilism is a type of collectivism in which the one is expected to prioritize the needs of the greater society or family over the needs of the individual. This plays out on a large scale in North Korea, where the Great Leader Kim Il-Sung is Father and the Worker's Party is Mother. Thus, not only are the people expected to cherish their birth parents and treat them with all the respect demanded of traditional Confucian filial piety, but they must cherish and adore the ruling Kim family and the Mother Party even more so.\n\nFamilism in North Korea stems from a combination of the traditional East Asian Confucian value of filial piety, the communist system of collectivism, and the Kim cult of personality. As a traditional East Asian and Confucian value, the importance of family has come to resonate through all aspects of North Korean life, from politics to the economy to education and even to interpersonal relationships between friends and enemies.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union first entered North Korea in 1945 to start its occupation, it had to start almost from scratch in establishing a communist base in the capital region of Pyongyang. In fact, the Soviets' ideologies of communism and socialism were likely as foreign to the Koreans of Pyongyang as the Soviets themselves. However, by emphasizing family and a father-child relationship between the Soviet Union and Korea, and later between Kim Il-Sung and the North Korean people, Kim not only managed to apply Western Marxism to an Asian state, but also to secure his own personality cult, thereby constructing a sense of unquestioning loyalty toward him amongst the North Korean people when North Korea was at its most vulnerable to unwelcome western influences.\n\nHowever, in the late 1960s after the establishment of Juche as official North Korean ideology, through the cult of personality North Korea began to prominently focus the family ideology more on the North Korean nation itself, with Kim Il-Sung himself as the new \"pater familias\". \n\nThe cults of personality also promote the idea of the ruling Kims as a model family. In grief over the death of his second son, Kim Pyong-Il in 1947, Kim Il-Sung returned to the very same spot a decade later with a Korean shaman to perform rituals to \"assuage his loss and pain.\" There was particular stress on the Confucian filial love of the son for his parents. After their deaths Kim dedicated monuments to his father and mother, respectively.\n\nHowever, biographer Dae-Sook Suh doubts the sincerity of Kim’s displays of reverence of his parents. In considering Kim’s relatively independent childhood, Suh does not believe that Kim held any special love for his parents that would necessitate separate museums and statues for each. Instead, Suh says that \"his purpose, rather, seems to be more self-serving: an effort to build his own image as a pious Korean son from a revolutionary family.\" By publicly portraying himself as a loyal son who loved his mother and father, Kim positioned himself to demand the same filial loyalty from his subjects.\n\nLikewise, in celebration of his father's 60th birthday, Kim Jong-Il produced three operas for him, built three monuments, including North Korea's Arch of Triumph, for his 70th birthday in 1982, and upon Kim Il-Sung’s death in 1994, Kim Jong-Il declared three years of mourning before fully claiming leadership of North Korea.\n\nAnother factor that makes North Korea unique is its notable emphasis also on the maternal aspect of leadership. In a political decision distinct from other socialist regimes, starting around the 1960s, North Korea gradually abandoned the idea of leadership as paternal—such as with Stalin in the Soviet Union or Mao in China—and increasingly referred to their leaders in maternal terms, despite the fact that nearly all of the leading family and party are, in fact, male.\n\nBy 1992, there had been nearly 40,000 statues of Kim Il-sung erected throughout the country, and with his death in 1994 the government began erecting 3,200 obelisks, called \"Towers of Eternal Life\", in every town and city. These obelisks espouse the virtues of the \"Great Marshal\" and, like the other monuments, citizens (and tourists) are required to present flowers and other tokens of respect to the statues during certain holidays and when they visit them. There are legal requirements associated with photographing statues of the Kims including one that states visitors must photograph the entire statue, not just the head or any other individual part.\n\nAfter the death of Kim Jong-il the government began to inscribe his name on each of the obelisks and build new statues in his image.\n\nImages of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il are prominent in places associated with public transportation, hanging at every North Korean train station and airport. Every North Korean household is required to have a picture of both Kims hanging on a wall. Nothing else may hang on that wall and they are given special cloths to clean the images daily. Party members in neighborhoods are assigned to inspect houses for dusty portraits. If dust is found, a fine has to be paid, its amount depending on the thickness of the layer. The portraits have to be hung high up, so that people in the room may not stand higher than them. Party cadres and military officials must keep three portraits, that of the two deceased leaders and one of Kim Il-sung's wife, Kim Jong-suk. The images are only allowed to be made by government approved artists at specific Mansudae workshops. Images found within newspapers or other publications are to be respected and one must not throw away, deface or otherwise misuse a page that contains an image. They are to be collected and returned. Adult North Koreans are also required to wear a lapel pin that features their image on the left side, above their heart.\n\nThere have been sporadic stories of people risking their lives to save the portraits from various disasters but few accounts have been verified. In 2012, a 14-year-old girl drowned while trying to save the images from her family's home during a flash flood. The North Korean government posthumously bestowed upon her the \"Kim Jong-Il Youth Honor Award\" and her school will be renamed after her.\n\nThe Kumsusan Palace of the Sun was built as the official residence of Kim Il-sung in 1976. After his death it was converted into his mausoleum (and then that of his son's). It is reported to have cost between $100–900 million. Kumsusan is the largest mausoleum dedicated to a Communist leader.\n\nThe overall estimated cost of maintaining the personality cult varies greatly between published sources. A white paper by the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy placed the cost at 38.5% of North Korea's budget in 2004, up from 19% in 1990. However, other sources such as South Korea's \"Chosun Ilbo\" and the United Kingdom's \"Daily Telegraph\" estimate the cost in 2012 at between $40 million and $100 million respectively. Large scale construction projects for the Kim family has been blamed for the country's economic downturn in the 1980s.\n\nIn 2013, a new holiday was announced to be celebrated on February 14, which commemorates the date that Kim Jong-il assumed the title \"Generalissimo of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea\". Unlike celebrations surrounding other important figures throughout the world, the celebrations are mandatory, with numerous events planned (such as dances, sporting events and parades), and citizens will place gifts of flowers at the foot of monuments. Birthday celebrations for the Kims also involve state media broadcasts of films about the lives and accomplishments of the leaders the night before the actual holiday. People are not allowed to talk or fall asleep until the broadcasts are over.\n\nBetween 60,000 and 220,000 gifts to Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il from foreign leaders, businesspersons and others are housed in the International Friendship Exhibition.\nThe museum is a source of pride for the North Korean government and is used as evidence of the greatness and popularity of their leaders. The North Korean government places a large emphasis on international recognition in order to legitimize their rule in the minds of the population. Tours are arranged to the Exhibition Hall whereupon entering and leaving visitors must pay homage by bowing before images of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, as per Korean manners and tradition.\n\nFormer dictator of the Socialist Republic of Romania, Nicolae Ceaușescu, modeled his own cult of personality partly on Kim Il-sung's personality cult. When he visited North Korea in 1971, he was impressed by the highly personal way that Kim ruled North Korea, launching the July Theses when he returned to Bucharest.\n\nOver the past half-century, the North Korean system has promoted an image of not only Kim Il-sung, but also his family, as a nationalist cult. (see Other) Thus, Kim Il-sung staked his claim as uniquely deserving and qualified to the exclusion of all other potential claimants to leadership by promoting the myth of an impressive family lineage. Kim Il-sung was not only descended and born of revolutionary leaders, but he married a revolutionary leader (Kim Jong-suk) and fathered a revolutionary leader (Kim Jong-il). This in turn would help justify the succession of Kim Jong-il and then Kim Jong-un in replacing their fathers. The idea is that as long as his bloodline continues to rule, Kim Il-sung’s righteous and godlike spirit lives on in the North Korean leadership. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32568477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32568477", "title": "Nyimang language", "text": "Nyimang language\n\nNyimang, also known as Ama, is an East Sudanic language spoken in the Nuba Mountains.\n\nBlench lists the Mandal dialect separately.\n\n"}
{"id": "4831837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4831837", "title": "Oath of Fealty (novel)", "text": "Oath of Fealty (novel)\n\nOath of Fealty is a 1981 novel by American writer Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle, published originally by Phantasia Press, then by Timescape Books, with numerous reprints. Set in the near future, it involves an arcology, a large inhabited structure, called Todos Santos, which rises above a crime-ridden Los Angeles, California, but has little beyond casual contact with the city. The novel popularized the phrase \"think of it as evolution in action,\" which occurs elsewhere in Niven's books. The novel anticipated the building of the Los Angeles Subway. It was included in David Pringle's book \"\".\n\nIn the near future, a race riot results in the destruction of an area just outside Los Angeles. The city sells the construction rights to a private company, which then constructs an arcology, named Todos Santos. The higher standard of living enjoyed by Todos Santos residents causes resentment among Angelenos. The arcology dwellers have evolved a different culture, sacrificing privacy - there are cameras (not routinely monitored) even in the private apartments - in exchange for security. The residents are fiercely loyal to the arcology and its management, and the loyalty runs both ways. During the course of the novel, Todos Santos is compared to a feudal society, with loyalty and obligations running both ways, hence the title of the novel. The systems at the arcology are run by MILLIE, an advanced computer system, and some high-level executives have direct links to MILLIE via bio-electronic implants in their brains. Other workers in the arcology work by telepresence, including one woman who remotely operates construction equipment on a lunar base.\n\nTodos Santos causes resentment among Angelenos, but has improved their lives as well. The company that owns the arcology tows icebergs in, solving the water shortage for all Southern Californians. Todos Santos has dug a Los Angeles subway using a digging machine, which uses an oxyhydrogen torch. Todos Santos is at the hub of the subway system, and contains a huge mall, which Angelenos may visit. This easy access causes Los Angeles' city officials to complain about the shopping dollars and tax revenues going outside the city limits.\n\nAs the story opens, three young Angelenos sneak into the maintenance areas of Todos Santos. When they are detected by Todos Santos' security systems and personnel, they give every appearance of being terrorists, including spoofing the correct electronic access codes. When non-lethal means of stopping the three fail, Deputy Manager Preston Sanders orders lethal gas released rather than risk a bomb going off. Two of the intruders are killed. They turn out to be youths, with high tech equipment and boxes with such labels as \"bomb\", but without the actual means of harming the arcology. It soon turns out that they were duped by the \"Friends of Man and the Earth\" (FROMATE), anti-technology zealots who want to see Todos Santos destroyed or abandoned, as a means of forcing the arcology to turn off its lethal defenses for a later real attack.\n\nThe deaths of the two youths cause political problems. Sanders is charged with murder. While arcology manager Art Bonner is quite prepared to defy the city authorities, Sanders turns himself in. The arcology is forced to turn off its lethal defenses as the FROMATEs planned. When that happens, they soon face a full-fledged attack by the FROMATEs, which they deter by non-lethal means, until the intruders prove they have deadly weapons, at which point Todos Santos security responds in kind, shooting and killing most of the intruders. While city authorities are still reacting to this, the arcology launches a jailbreak, the idea of chief engineer (and resident genius) Tony Rand. They tunnel under the jail using the tunneling machine that the \"Saints\" used to build the L.A. subway, release sleep gas into the jail, and free Sanders.\n\nLos Angeles soon retaliates with arrest and search warrants, but they are soon defeated by the sheer size of the arcology and the ability of the Todos Santos executives, aided in part by their direct links to MILLIE, to hide Rand and Sanders. After Todos Santos shows that it can cause Los Angeles trouble, such as by contaminating the Los Angeles water supply with salt water, and by work stoppages among the telepresence operators, a truce is arrived at: Rand and Sanders will leave the country permanently, and relations between Los Angeles and Todos Santos will be restored. In effect, Todos Santos has won, if only by restoring the \"status quo ante.\"\n\nNotable Quote: \"Think of it as Evolution in Action\" (Tony Rand)\n\nIt was chosen as one of the , by critic David Pringle. It has been nominated numerous times for a Prometheus Award for best classic libertarian science fiction novel.\n\n"}
{"id": "25706228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25706228", "title": "Paleocontinent", "text": "Paleocontinent\n\nA paleocontinent or palaeocontinent is a distinct area of continental crust that existed as a major landmass in the geological past. There have been many different landmasses throughout Earth’s time. They range in sizes, some are just a collection of small microcontinents while others are large conglomerates of crust. As time progresses and sea levels rise and fall more crust can be exposed making way for larger landmasses. The continents of the past shaped the evolution of organisms on Earth and contributed to the climate of the globe as well. As land masses break apart, species are separated and those that were once the same now have evolved to their new climate. The constant movement of these landmasses greatly determines the distribution of organisms on the Earth's surface. This is evident with how similar fossils are found on completely separate continents. Also, as continents move, mountain building events (orogenies) occur, causing a shift in the global climate as new rock is exposed and then there is more exposed rock at higher elevations. This causes glacial ice expansion and an overall cooler global climate. Which effects the overall global climate trend of the Earth. The movement of the continents greatly affects the overall dispersal of organisms throughout the world and the trend in climate throughout the Earth’s history. Examples include Laurentia, Baltica and Avalonia, which collided together during the Caledonian orogeny to form the Old Red Sandstone paleocontinent of Laurussia. Another example includes a collision that occurred during the late Pennsylvanian and early Permian time when there was a collision between the two continents of Tarimsky and Kirghiz-Kazakh. This collision was caused because of their askew convergence when the paleoceanic basin closed.\n\nThe examples below are condensed in order to portray a brief overview of several paleocontinents.\n\nRodinia was centered on the equator and reached from 60° N to 60° S.\n\n1.2-1 bya to 800-850 mya, Proterozoic Eon - end of Precambrian.\n\nIt was the first supercontinent to form on Earth, all the continental crust on Earth came together and formed one giant land mass. This land mass was surrounded by an even larger ocean, known as Mirovia. There were about four smaller continents that collided and came together to form Rodinia. This event is called the Grenville Orogeny. This caused there to be mountain building along the areas of were continents collided. This is because the continental crust is not very dense so neither continent would sink or sub duct. This causes the formation of Fold and Thrust belts, similar to the Himalayas today.\n\nRodinia lasted for 250 mya and then began to come apart between 850 and 800 mya. The continent began to break part at a single point but then fractured and ripped open in three different directions. Two of the three rifts that were created were successful and the third failed. The breaking up Rodinia caused the formation of Gondwana or Gondwanaland and Laurentia. Rodinia’s breakup created many shallow coastal shelves that were not there before. The shelves were nutrient rich and this is thought to have led to the diversification of vegetative and non-vegetative life on Earth. The shelves in particular were the area where animal life is said to have started. The name Rodinia also alludes to this, in Russian it means ‘to give birth’ and in this case that is to animal life here on Earth.\n\nThe climate at the end of Rodinia’s existence was cold and it is thought that this was the start of the first snowball Earth period. Rodinia already had some glaciation but as it tore apart, less dense rock began to rise causing more land area to be at higher elevations which encouraged more ice to stick. However, the time of Rodinia was a time of inactivity in Earth’s atmosphere. Also the atmosphere had little oxygen because Rodinia’s land surface was too harsh of an environment for land plants to flourish, the atmosphere was devoid of Oxygen and the ozone layer was much less extensive which attributed to the harsh land environment.\n\nGondwana was located in the southern hemisphere, with the land mass that makes up current day Antarctica closest to the South Pole. The continent reaches from just above the equator to the South Pole. Current day South America and Africa are closest to the equator with Northern Africa intersecting the equator.\n\n600-180 mya, Precambrian - Jurassic Period.\n\nGondwana was made of present-day South America, Africa, Arabia, India, Antarctica, Australia, and Madagascar. The Continent was fully formed by the late Precambrian period. This was 600 million years ago. It was an amalgamation of all the current southern hemisphere continents. Gondwana lasted through many different time periods and was a part of other super continents, like Pangea.\n\nGondwana broke up in distinct stages. The continent started to split during the Jurassic Period around 180 million years ago. The first event was the separation of the western half of Gondwana, which includes Africa and South America, from the eastern half, which includes Antarctica, Australia, Madagascar, and India. Next, 40 million years later, South America and Africa began to split which began to open up the Atlantic Ocean. Also around this time India and Madagascar began to detach from Australia and Antarctica, this separation created the Indian Ocean. Lastly in the Cretaceous India and Madagascar began to split and Australia and Antarctica began to detach from one another.\n\nThe life on Gondwana has changed throughout its existence. Gondwana was a smaller piece of Rodinina and stayed together all the way through the breakup of Pangea. This allowed Gondwana to host almost all species that have ever lived on Earth. Gondwana also was a part of some great mass extinction events. During the Ordovician, sea levels rose so much that the entire Gondwana continent was covered, at this time marine life was dominant. Also, vertebrates started to make an appearance in the fossil record. Terrestrial species started to become more prominent in the Silurian, however, in the Devonian modern fish and shark species began to diversify, and terrestrial vegetation begun colonizing the continent, as organic soil accumulation can be detected. Amniotic eggs started to evolve as more terrestrial land became available with rising land masses and lowering sea levels. During the Permian extinction, almost all marine species were lost, along with some terrestrial species. This event gave rise to terrestrial species, such as reptiles, dinosaurs, and small mammals.\n\nGondwana experienced a variety of climates as it has been a land mass from 600 million years ago in the Precambrian to the Early Jurassic with the breakup of Pangea. In the Cambrian, there was a warmer and milder climate because most continental crust was closer to the equator and not the poles. The continent endured an ice age during the Ordovician period and deglaciation was still occurring during the Silurian period. The climate started to become more humid and tropical throughout the globe and there was a lack of seasonality. The climate began to change again during the Mesozoic, this time period was dominated by a very large and lengthy monsoon season, because of Pangea. Once Pangea began to break apart the climate started to cool, but Gondwana was already being broken apart.\n\nThe location of Laurentia has changed throughout time. In the late Proterozoic Laurentia could be found surrounded by Siberia, South Africa, Australia-Antarctica, and Amazonia-Baltica. Laurentia during the time of super contient Gondwana was smushed in between Eastern and Western Gondwana, but when Gondwana attached to Laurussia to form Pangea, laurentia was moved and was closer to northern Africa.\n\n4 bya-present day, Precambrian-Quaternary.\n\nLaurentia is the North American craton. It is one of the largest and oldest cratons dating back to Precambrian times. The craton itself includes the Canadian and Greenland shields, as well as the interior basin of North America, and the craton can also include the Cordilleran foreland of the Southwestern United States. The craton itself formed in deep time, the early Proterozoic age of the Earth and has stayed coherent since. It formed through many different orogeny’s and the suture zones that they create. These smaller land masses were made of Archean age crust and belts of Early Proterozoic island arcs. Laurentia has been a part of many supercontinents throughout its time. The formation of Laurentia is similar to the formation of Eurasia.\n\nLaurentia is presently still coherent and still a continental craton, now it goes by the name North America. The craton can be found stretching from Alberta, Canada to the Eastern coast of both Canada and the United States. The craton stretches from the south eastern United States to Greenland. The western border of Laurentia can be found on the eastern side of the Rocky Mountains.\n\nSea level rose in the Cambrian period which gave rise to marine invertebrates which flourished with the rise in sea level. Life in the Ordovician continued to be dominated by marine animals and vegetation. Also, vertebrates started to make up a portion of the animals on Earth. However sponges and algae were still the most dominant species type. Marine animals were the most dominant but terrestrial species started to appear at the end of the Ordovician. Life in the Silurian was still dominated by marine species but terrestrial species are much more prominent than they had been previously. When Laurentia moved into the Devonian period fish began to diversify and life had begun colonizing land as this is when organic soil accumulation can be detected. More modern fish began to develop as time went on, with the addition of shark diversification. Also, amniotic eggs started to evolve as more terrestrial land became available with rising land masses. The next event was the Permian extinction where almost all species in the oceans died off along with many terrestrial species. This then gave rise to terrestrial animals, such as reptiles, dinosaurs, and small mammals. At the end of this new era was a mass extinction of Dinosaurs and reptiles, this led mammals to flourish as they could take over many of the niches that became vacant.\n\nLaurentia experienced a variety of climates as it has been a land mass for billions of years. The craton experienced an ice age during the late Proterozoic and another during the Ordivician period. During the Cambrian, there was no ice age and it was slightly warmer as most continents avoided the poles giving land at this time a milder climate. Deglaciation was still occurring during the Silurian period after the ice age of the Ordovician. The climate started to move to become more humid and tropical throughout the Earth. There weren’t many seasons. The climate began to change when Laurentia entered the Mesozoic Era, this time period was dominated by a very large and lengthy monsoon season, because of Pangea. At the end of the Cretaceous, seasons started to return and the Earth entered another ice age type event.\n\nThe continent spanned from 85° N to 90° S. Pangea was centered over the equator, and encompassed area from the North to the South poles. The Southeastern part of present-day North America and the Northern region of current day Africa intersected the equator. Present-day Eastern Asia was furthest North and Antarctica and Australia were furthest South.\n\n299–272 mya to 200 mya, Early Permian-Early Jurassic.\n\nPangea was created by the continent of Gondwanaland and the continent of Laurussia. During the Carboniferous period the two continents came together to form the supercontinent of Pangea. The mountain building events that happened at this time created the Appalachian Mountains and the Variscan Belt of Central Europe. However, not all landmasses on Earth had attached themselves onto Pangea. It took until the late Permian until the Siberian land mass collided with Pangea. The only land mass to not be a part of Pangea were the former North and South China plates, they created a much smaller land mass in the ocean. There was a massive ocean that encompassed the world called Panthalassa, because most of the continental crust was sutured together into one giant continent there was a giant ocean to match.\n\nPangea broke apart after 70 million years. The supercontinent was torn apart through fragmentation, which is where parts of the main landmass would break off in stages. There were two main events that led to the dispersal of Pangea. The first was a passive rifting event that occurred in the Triassic period. This rifting event caused the Atlantic Ocean to form. The other event was an active rifting event. This happened in the Lower Jurassic and caused the opening of the Indian Ocean.This breakup took 17 million years to complete.\n\nPangea formed roughly 20 million years before the Permian Extinction. During the Permian Extinction over 95% of all marine species were lost and 70% of terrestrial species were lost. The Triassic period of Pangea became a time of recovery from the Permian Extinction. This recovery included the rise of sea levels which created extensive shallow oceanic shelves for large marine reptiles. This recovery period was when terrestrial animals flourished and when land reptiles diversified and flourished, along with the appearance of Dinosaurs. These Dinosaurs would become what characterizes the life forms of the following periods, the Jurassic and Cretaceous. Lastly at the end of the Triassic and the beginning of the Jurassic was the first appearance of small shrew like mammals that came from reptiles.\n\nThe main characteristic of Pangea’s climate is that its position on Earth was advantageous for starting a cycle of megamonsoonal circulation. The monsoons reached their maximum strength in the Triassic period of the Mesozoic. During the late Carboniferous, there was peat formation in what is currently Europe and the Eastern areas of North America. The wetter, swamp like conditions needed to form peat were contrasted with the dry conditions on the Colorado Plateau. Nearing the end of the Carboniferous the region of Pangea centered on the equator became drier. In the Permian, this dryness was contrasted with seasonal rainfall, and this type of climate became more normal and widespread on the continent. However, during the Triassic, the Colorado Plateau started to regain some moisture and there was a shift in wind direction. Around the same time parts of current day Australia that were found at higher latitudes were much drier and seasonal in character. At the start of the Jurassic the megamonsoon started to fall apart as drying started to happen to Gondwana and the southern portion of Laurasia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1401578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1401578", "title": "Patrician (post-Roman Europe)", "text": "Patrician (post-Roman Europe)\n\nPatricianship, the quality of belonging to a patriciate, began in the ancient world, where cities such as Ancient Rome had a class of patrician families whose members were the only people allowed to exercise many political functions. In the rise of European towns in the 12th and 13th century, the patriciate, a limited group of families with a special constitutional position, in Henri Pirenne's view, was the motive force. In 19th century central Europe, the term had become synonymous with the upper Bourgeoisie and can't be compared with the mediaeval patriciate in Central Europe. In the German speaking parts of Europe as well as in the maritime republics of Italy, the patricians were as a matter of fact the ruling body of the mediaeval town and particularly in Italy part of the nobility.\n\nWith the establishment of the medieval towns, Italian city-states and maritime republics, the patriciate was a formally defined class of governing wealthy families. They were found in the Italian city states and maritime republics such as Venice, Pisa, Genoa and Amalfi and but also in many of the Free imperial cities of the Holy Roman Empire such as Nuremberg, Ravensburg, Augsburg, Konstanz, Lindau, Bern, Basel, Zurich and many more.\n\nAs in Ancient Rome, patrician status could generally only be inherited. However, membership in the patriciate could be passed on through the female line. For example, if the union was approved by her parents, the husband of patrician daughter was granted membership in the patrician society of the Imperial Free City of Lindau as a matter of right, on the same terms as the younger son of a patrician male (i.e., upon payment of a nominal fee) even if the husband was otherwise deemed socially ineligible. Accession to a patriciate through this mechanism was referred to as \"erweibern.\"\n\nIn any case, only male patricians could hold, or participate in elections for, most political offices. Often, as in Venice, non-patricians had almost no political rights. Lists were maintained of who had the status, of which the most famous is the Libro d'Oro (\"Golden Book\") of the Venetian Republic. From the fall of the Hohenstaufen (1268) city-republics increasingly became principalities, like Milan and Verona, and the smaller ones were swallowed up by monarchical states or sometimes other republics, like Pisa and Siena by Florence, and any special role for the local patricians was restricted to municipal affairs. The few remaining patrician constitutions, notably those of Venice and Genoa, were swept away by the conquering French armies of the period after the French Revolution, although many patrician families remained socially and politically important, as some do to this day.\n\nIn the modern era the term \"patrician\" is also used broadly for the higher bourgeoisie (not to be equated with aristocracy) in many countries; in some countries it vaguely refers to the non-noble upper class, especially before the 20th century.\n\nThere was an intermediate period under the Late Roman Empire and Byzantine Empire when the title was given to governors in the Western parts of the Empire, such as Sicily— Stilicho, Aetius and other 5th-century \"magistri militari\" usefully exemplify the role and scope of the \"patricius\" at this point. Later the role, like that of the Giudicati of Sardinia, acquired a judicial overtone, and was used by rulers who were often \"de facto\" independent of Imperial control, like Alberic II of Spoleto, \"Patrician of Rome\" from 932 to 954.\n\nIn the 9th and 10th centuries, the Byzantine emperors strategically used the title of \"patrikios\" to gain the support of the native princes of southern Italy in the contest with the Carolingian Empire for control of the region. The allegiance of the Principality of Salerno was bought in 887 by investing Prince Guaimar I, and again in 955 from Gisulf I. In 909 the Prince of Benevento, Landulf I, personally sought and received the title in Constantinople for both himself and his brother, Atenulf II. In forging the alliance that won the Battle of the Garigliano in 915, the Byzantine \"strategos\" Nicholas Picingli granted the title to John I and Docibilis II of Gaeta and Gregory IV and John II of Naples.\n\nAt this time there was usually only one \"Patrician\" for a particular city or territory at a time; in several cities in Sicily, like Catania and Messina, a one-man office of patrician was part of municipal government for much longer. Amalfi was ruled by a series of Patricians, the last of whom was elected Duke.\n\nThough often mistakenly so described, patrician families of Italian cities were not in their origins members of the territorial nobility, but members of the minor landowners, the bailiffs and stewards of the lords and bishops, against whose residual powers they led the struggles in establishing the urban communes. At Genoa the earliest records of trading partnerships are in documents of the early 11th century; there the typical sleeping partner is a member of the local petty nobility with some capital to invest, and in the expansion of trade leading roles were taken by men who already held profitable positions in the feudal order, who received revenues from rents or customs tolls or market dues. Then in the 12th and 13th centuries, to this first patrician class were added the families who had risen through trade, the Doria, Cigala and Lercari In Milan, the earliest consuls were chosen from among the \"valvasores\", \"capitanei\" and \"cives\". H. Sapori found the first patriaciates of Italian towns to usurp the public and financial functions of the overlord to have been drawn from such petty vassals, holders of heritable tenancies and rentiers who farmed out the agricultural labours of their holdings.\n\nAt a certain point it was necessary to obtain recognition of the independence of the city, and often its constitution, from either the Pope or the Holy Roman Emperor - \"free\" cities in the Empire continued to owe allegiance to the Emperor, but without any intermediate rulers.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages and early modern period patricians also acquired noble titles, sometimes simply by acquiring domains in the surrounding \"contado\" that carried a heritable fief. However, in practice the status and wealth of the patrician families of the great republics was higher than that of most nobles, as money economy spread and the profitability and prerogatives of land-holding eroded, and they were accepted as of similar status. The Republic of Genoa had a separate class, much smaller, of nobility, originating with rural magnates who joined their interests with the fledgling city-state. Some cities, such as Naples and Rome, which had never been republics in post-Classical times, also had patrician classes, though most holders also had noble titles. The Republic of Ragusa was ruled by a strict patriciate that was formally established in 1332, which was subsequently modified only once, following the 1667 Dubrovnik earthquake.\n\nSubsequently, \"patrician\" became a vaguer term used for aristocrats and elite bourgeoisie in many countries.\n\nIn some Italian cities an early patriciate drawn from the minor nobles and feudal officials took a direct interest in trade, notably the textile trade and the long-distance trade in spices and luxuries as it expanded, and were transformed in the process. In others, the inflexibility of the patriciate would build up powerful forces excluded from its ranks, and in an urban coup the great mercantile interests would overthrow the \"grandi\", without overthrowing the urban order, but simply filling its formal bodies with members drawn from the new ranks, or rewriting the constitution to allow more power to the \"populo\". Florence, in 1244, came rather late in the peak period of these transformations, which was between 1197, when Lucca followed this route, and 1257, when Genoa adopted similar changes. However Florence was to have other upheavals, reducing the power of the patrician class, in the movement leading to the Ordinances of Justice in 1293, and the Revolt of the Ciompi in 1378.\n\nOf the major republics, only Venice managed to retain an exclusively patrician government, which survived until Napoleon. In Venice, where the exclusive patriciate reserved to itself all power of directing the \"Serenissima Repubblica\" and erected legal barriers to protect the state increased its scrutiny over the composition of its patriciate in the generation after the Battle of Chioggia. Venetians with a disputed claim to the patriciate were required to present to the \"avogadori di commun\" established to adjudicate such claims a genealogy called a \"prova di nobiltà\", a \"test of nobility\". This was particularly required of Venetian colonial elite in outlying regions of the Venetian thalassocracy, as in Crete, a key Venetian colony 1211–1669, and a frontier between Venetian and Byzantine, then Ottoman, zones of power. For Venetians in Venice, the \"prova di nobiltà\" was simply a \"pro forma\" rite of passage to adulthood, attested by family and neighbors; for the colonial Venetian elite in Crete the political and economic privileges weighed with the social ones, and for the Republic, a local patriciate in Crete with loyalty ties to Venice expressed through connective lineages was of paramount importance.\n\nActive recruitment of rich new blood was also a character of some more flexible patriciates, which drew in members of the mercantile elite, through \"ad hoc\" partnerships in ventures, which became more permanently cemented by marriage alliances. \"In such cases an upper group, part feudal-aristocratic, part mercantile would arise, a group of mixed nature like the 'magnates' of Bologna, formed of nobles made \"bourgeois\" by business, and \"bourgeois\" ennobled by city decree, both fused together in law.\" Others, like Venice, tightly restricted membership, which was closed in 1297, though some families, the \"case nuove\" or \"new houses\" were allowed to join in the 14th century, after which membership was frozen.\n\nBeginning in the 11th century, a privileged class which much later came to be called \"Patrizier\" formed in the German-speaking free imperial cities. Besides wealthy merchant Grand Burghers (), they were recruited from the ranks of imperial knights, administrators and ministeriales; the latter two groups were accepted even when they were not freemen.\n\nMembers of a patrician society entered into oaths of loyalty to one another and directly with respect to the Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nGerman medieval patricians, Patrician (post-Roman Europe) did not refer to themselves as such. Instead, they organized themselves into closed societies (i.e., Gesellschaften) and would point to their belonging to certain families or \"houses\" (i.e., Geschlechter), as documented for Imperial Free Cities of Cologne, Frankfurt am Main, Nuremberg. The use of the word \"Patrizier\" to refer to the most privileged segment of urban society dates back not to the Middle Ages but to the Renaissance. In 1516 the Nuremberg councillor and jurist Dr. Christoph Scheuerl (1481–1542) was commissioned by Dr. Johann Staupitz, the vicar general of the order of St. Augustine, to draft a précis of the Nuremberg constitution, presented on 15 December 1516 in the form of a letter. Because the letter was composed in Latin, Scheuerl referred to the Nuremberg \"houses\" as \"patricii\", making ready use of the obvious analogy to the constitution of ancient Rome. His contemporaries soon turned this into the loan words \"Patriziat\" and \"Patrizier\" for patricianship and patricians. However, this usage did not become common until the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe \"Patrizier\" filled the seats of town councils and appropriated other important civic offices to themselves. For this purpose they assembled in patrician societies and asserted a hereditary claim to the coveted offices. In Frankfurt the Patrizier societies began to bar admittance of new families in the second half of the 16th century. The industrious Calvinist refugees from the southern Netherlands made substantial contributions to the city's commerce. But their advancement was largely limited to the material sphere. At the time this was summed up as, Jews were in any case never even considered for membership in patricians societies. Unlike non-Lutheran Christians and until their partial emancipation brought on by Napoleonic occupation, however, other avenues to advancement in society were also closed to them.\n\nAs in the Italian republics, this was opposed by the craftsmen who were organized in guilds of their own (\"Zünfte\"). In the 13th century they began to challenge the prerogatives of the patricians and their guilds. Most of the time the guilds succeeded in achieving representation on a town's council. However, these gains were reversed in most Imperial Free Cities through the reforms in 1551–1553 by Emperor Charles V (of the Holy Roman Empire, 1519–1556) and patricians consolidated their exclusive right to city counsel seats and associated offices, making the patriciate the only families eligible for election to the city council.\n\nDuring the formative years of a patrician junker, it was common to pursue international apprenticeships and academic qualification. During their careers patricians often achieved high military and civil service positions in the service of their cities and the emperor. It was also common for patricians to gain wealth as shareholders of corporations which traded commodities across Europe.\n\nIn the territories of the former Holy Roman Empire, patricians were considered the equal of the feudal nobility (the \"landed gentry\"). Indeed, many patrician societies such as the Suenfzen of Lindau, referred to their members as \"noble\" and themselves as a \"noble\" or even \"high noble\" societies. Some patrician societies such as that of Bern, officially granted their members the right to use noble predicates whereas other patricians chose to use the noble predicate \"von\" in connection with their original name or a country estate, see e.g., the Lindau patrician families Heider von Gitzenweiler (also von Heider), Funk von Senftenau, Seutter von Loetzen (also von Seutter), Halder von Moellenberg (also von Halder), Curtabatt (also von Curtabat or de Curtabat). In 1696 and 1697 Emperor Leopold affirmed the noble quality (i.e., ebenburtigkeit\") of Nuremberg Patrizier and their right to elevate new families to their society.\n\nNotwithstanding that membership in a patrician society (or eligibility there for, i.e., \"Ratsfähigkeit\") was \"per se\" evidence of belonging to the highest of social classes of the Holy Roman Empire, patricians always had the option to have their noble status confirmed by a patent of nobility from the Holy Roman Emperor which was granted as a matter course upon the payment of fee. In any case, when travelling to other parts of Europe for example to the court of Louis XIV, members of the patrician societies of imperial free cities were recognized as noble courtiers as documented in the autobiography of Lindau Suenfzenjunker Rudolf Curtabatt.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire ceased to exist in 1806. Although not the arbiter of who belongs to the historical German patriciate, the modern \"Genealogisches Handbuch des Adels\" (= \"Genealogical Handbook of Nobility\") following appropriate review by the fourth chamber of the German Adelsrechtsausschuss or Noble Law Committee, will include families even without a title of nobility affirmed by the Emperor, when there is proof that their progenitors belonged to hereditary \"council houses\" in German imperial cities. To the extent patricians and their descendants chose to avail themselves of a noble predicate after 1806 and, therefore, without imperial affirmation, such titles and predicates would also be accepted by the German Adelsrechtsausschuss if acquired through a legal mechanism akin to adverse possession, i.e., Ersitzung.\n\nIn any case, in the Netherlands (see below) and many Hanseatic cities such as Hamburg, patricians scoffed at the notion of ennoblement. Indeed, Johann Christian Senckenberg, the famous naturalist, commented, \"An honest man is worth more than all the nobility and all the Barons. If anyone were to make me a Baron, I would call him a [female canine organ] or equally well a Baron. This is how much I care for any title.\"\n\nIn 1816, Frankfurt's new constitution abolished the privilege of heritable office for the patricians. In Nuremberg, successive reforms first curtailed the patricians privileges (1794) and then effectively abolished them (1808), although they retained some vestiges of power until 1848.\n\nThe Netherlands also has a patriciate. These are registered in Nederland's Patriciaat, colloquially called \"The Blue Book\" (s\"ee List of Dutch patrician families\"). To be eligible for entry, families must have played an active and important role in Dutch society, fulfilling high positions in the government, in prestigious commissions and in other prominent public posts for over six generations or 150 years.\n\nThe longer a family has been listed in the Blue Book, the higher its esteem. The earliest entries are often families seen as co-equal to the lower nobility (barons and counts), because they are the younger branches of the same family or have continuously married members of the Dutch nobility over a long period of time.\n\nThere are \"regentenfamilies\", whose forefathers were active in the administration of town councils, counties or the country itself during the Dutch Republic. Some of these families declined ennoblement because they did not keep a title in such high regard. At the end of the 19th century, they still proudly called themselves \"patriciërs\". Other families belong to the patriciate because they are held in the same regard and respect as the nobility but for certain reasons never were ennobled. Even within the same important families there can be branches with and without noble titles.\n\nIn Denmark and Norway, the term \"patriciate\" came to denote, mainly from the 19th century, the non-noble upper class, including the bourgeoisie, the clergy, the civil servants and generally members of elite professions such as lawyers. The Danish series \"Danske Patriciske Slægter\" (later \"Patriciske Slægter\" and \"Danske patricierslægter\") was published in six volumes between 1891 and 1979 and extensively described Danish patrician families. The term was used similarly in Norway from the 19th century, based on the Danish model; notably Henrik Ibsen described his own family background as patrician. Jørgen Haave defines the patriciate in the Norwegian context as a broad collective term for the civil servants (embetsmenn) and the burghers in the cities who were often merchants or ship's captains, i.e. the non-noble upper class. The bourgeoisie frequently intermarried with the families of higher civil servants and the nobility; the boundaries between the groups were not sharp.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6818321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6818321", "title": "Pendennis Club", "text": "Pendennis Club\n\nThe Pendennis Club is a private social club located at 218 West Muhammad Ali Blvd. (formerly Walnut Street) in Louisville, Kentucky. It originated as a gentlemen's “city” club on the model of the clubs in London, Britain, of which White's Club founded in 1693 is the progenitor. The Pendennis Club has long been regarded as the preeminent social club in Kentucky and one of the premier clubs in the United States.\n\nThe Pendennis Club was founded by Thomas Wilson Todd (1852-1892), Levi Bloom (1854-1944), John Smith Noyes (1842-1922), and William Whits Hite (1854-1908) who, with sixteen others, hosted a preliminary meeting for starting the club in Mr. Todd's office in Louisville's City Hall on June 28, 1881.\n\nTwo organizational meetings, on July 9 & August 10, 1881, took place in the Club's first home consisting of rented space over A. J. Ross's Grocery Store, located in a building at the southwest corner of 4th and Walnut Streets–which is the site of the present Seelbach Hotel (built 1905). The Club's first president Maj. John Montgomery Wright (1841-1915) was elected at the latter meeting. He was a graduate of West Point, a Union veteran of the Civil War, and later served as Clerk of the United States Supreme Court.\n\nAlso at that meeting, the members adopted a proposal to name the club for the fictional Arthur Pendennis, who was seen as a paradigm club man, from William Makepeace Thackeray’s History of Pendennis: His Fortunes and Misfortunes, His Friends and His Greatest Enemy (published 1850). Arthur Pendennis’s crest, which was described but not depicted in this novel, and motto nec tenui penna (meaning “with unfailing wings”) were adopted for the Club as well. By year's end, the crest had been rendered and was placed on bottles of Bourbon sold to the Club's members.\n\nLevi Bloom stated that the Club “grew like topsy,” and many of Louisville's leading citizens joined from the start. In 1883, the Club purchased its first permanent home–the residence of William Burke Belknap (1811-1889), founder of Belknap Hardware & Mfg. Co., located at 332 West Walnut Street.\n\nThe new clubhouse opened to members on August 1, 1883. On that same day, the Southern Exposition was also opened in Louisville by U.S. President Chester A. Arthur. That evening, President Arthur was a guest at the Pendennis Club where he and some of his cabinet members, including Robert Todd Lincoln, enjoyed a lavish dinner. Other U.S. Presidents who have visited the Club include Theodore Roosevelt, William H. Taft, and Woodrow Wilson.\n\nAccording to Levi Bloom, President Taft, who was a native of Cincinnati, “felt more at home and would rather come to the Pendennis Club than any other in the country.” Perhaps one reason why he was so fond of the Club is the following assessment of its members by later Pulitzer Prize winning journalist Arthur Krock: If the term “gentleman” is held to its proper definition to mean a civilized, educated, well-mannered man, then no club in the United States numbered more such persons proportionate to its size than the Pendennis.Another notable early visitor was famed landscape architect (and designer of New York City's Central Park) Frederick Law Olmsted. On May 20, 1891, he met for dinner at the Club with leading Louisville citizens and Park Commissioners during his visit to the city in which he proposed his plan for the city's park system. Club member and Park Commissioner Andrew Cowan was instrumental in making this project a reality.In 1895, Charles Spencer-Churchill, 9th Duke of Marlborough visited the Club. That same year, Alexander Lewis composed the Pendennis 2-Step.*** *** ***\n\nIn 1884, there came to the Club the first of several staff members who would become true legends–Henry T. Bain (1863-1928). Starting as the “elevator boy,” it was not long before he became, perhaps, the first Maitre d’ in the Club's history, and his outstanding character made him a true legend. As Club member and Louisville Courier-Journal publisher Barry Bingham, Sr. later explained,it could not have been long before the members noticed his dignity, his perfect manners, and his remarkable memory for names. It was a later tradition that Henry knew every man and woman in “Louisville society,” and that he was familiar with their pedigrees as well. . . .He retired in 1924 and died just months before the opening of the new clubhouse in 1928, in which he was to have played a major part.\n\nHis legacy, though, lives on in the superlative sauce for meat that he created at the Club–known as Henry Bain's Sauce. He sold the recipe to the Club, and the Club holds the trademark to it. His sauce is not only still enjoyed by the Club's members, but it has also now been made available to the public in various local retail stores.\n\nA reputed nephew of Henry Bain, Roland Hayes (1887-1977), made his 1910 debut at the Club as a classical lyric tenor.\n\nThe Old Fashioned Whisky Cocktail\n\nIt has long been claimed that the Old Fashioned Whisky Cocktail was invented at the Pendennis Club. Some have disputed this claim noting that the term “old fashioned” was in use for cocktails before the Club was founded. The term came into use for those who wanted the simple original cocktail–liquor with bitters, sugar and water–rather than more elaborate versions that had come into being by the mid-nineteenth century. This term's use as an adjective, though, is completely distinguishable from the specific drink of this name traditionally created by a bartender at the Club.\n\nThe earliest known published source attributing the drink's creation to the Club, notably, has no ties to Kentucky: Maryland native Albert Stevens Crockett stated in his Old Waldorf Bar Days in 1931 that the Old Fashioned Cocktail was “said to have been the invention of a bartender” at the Pendennis Club and that this drink was brought to New York City's original Waldorf-Astoria Hotel by or in honor of Club member and Bourbon distiller Col. James E. Pepper (1850-1906). Club records confirm that Col. Pepper, a Lexington, Kentucky resident, became a member in 1893, and Club oral tradition among bartenders back to Craig Talley, who started at the Club in 1911, confirmed Col. Pepper's role in introducing the Old Fashioned in New York City.\n\nIn 1895, George J. Kappeler, another individual with no known Kentucky ties, published Modern American Drinks containing, on the same page, not only a recipe for the “Whiskey Cocktail” but also one for the “Old-Fashioned Whiskey Cocktail.” The recipe given by Mr. Kappeler for the latter is substantively identical to that given in Crockett's book. This source, thus, documents that the Old Fashioned was a specific separate drink by this point, and this time-line is consistent with Col. Pepper's known travels to New York City.\n\nAs for the identity of the “bartender” who created this drink, there are at least three possibilities. The first is Jacques Straub (1865-1920) who came to the Club by 1889 as “kitchen help” and later ascended to become the Club's manager. A native of Switzerland, Straub was a wine and spirits expert. After moving to Chicago in 1909 to become the wine steward of the Blackstone Hotel, he published Straub's Manuel of Mixed Drinks in 1913 with an Old Fashioned recipe. His recipe, like Kappeler's and Crockett's, did not call for the use of Bourbon–which one might expect for a whiskey cocktail hailing from Kentucky. Quite probably, the recipe was adapted for the tastes of Straub's new home, as it perhaps had also been for New York, where Bourbon was not then plentiful or favored.\n\nThe other known candidate, Tom Bullock (1872-1964), was a Louisville native who went to work at the Club as a bartender in about 1892 and, by 1917, had become the head bartender at the St. Louis Country Club. While there, he published The Ideal Bartender in 1917–with an Old Fashioned recipe that does call for the use of Bourbon. Bullock's prowess as a bartender is attested in a glowing introduction by George Herbert Walker–ancestor to U.S. Presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush.\n\nA third possible candidate is identified in the 1969 edition of George Leonard Harter's Bull Cook and Authentic Historical Recipes and Practices as Thomas Louis Whitcomb, who it says invented the cocktail at the Club in 1889. No records have, however, been found documenting this individual's existence much less association with the Club at the time.\n\nThe recipe for the Old Fashioned in use at the Pendennis Club includes the basic cocktail components including sugar & water (in the form of simple syrup) and bitters–but with the Angostura brand required. In addition, fine Bourbon whisky is required and so also are one or more fruits: the recipe used at the Club since at least the 1930s calls for the use of an orange slice, cherry, and a lemon twist with the former two muddled in the simple syrup.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> *** ***\n\nOne or more bartenders at the Pendennis Club have undisputedly created several other libations. The Pendennis Toddy was included in Straub's Manual. The recipe for the Pendennis Club Cocktail of then Club head bartender Martin Cuneo was published in the July 1934 edition of Esquire magazine. In a 2015 article in Saveur, bartender Toby Cecchini described that “the Pendennis Club Cocktail has a mesmerizing balance of flavors: sweet, tart, and packed with spice and strength all at the same time.” Finally, Pendennis Champagne Punch has been enjoyed by generations of Club members.\n\nProhibition did not hinder the enjoyment by some of the Club's members of their libations. On August 9, 1930, the Club was raided, and six car-loads of the very best beverages were taken away. One agent commented: “I never saw so many kinds of drinks in my life.”\n\nThe Pendennis Club constructed its current clubhouse, about a block east from the location of the original, in 1927-1928. This notable Georgian Revival building with nearly 80,000 square feet under roof was designed by the Louisville firm of Nevin, Wischmeyer & Morgan. Architect Frederick L. Morgan contributed all the designs for the exterior and interior additions and renovations. Local contractor Wortham Construction oversaw construction.\n\nMr. Nevin commented at the time that the new $1,000,000 structure was designed to be “one of the finest club buildings in the country,” and he emphasized to a newspaper reporter “that the very best material and equipment will go into the structure.” The building remains one of the finest clubhouses in the United States and not only includes a large variety of Georgian architectural details but also includes two rooms with the famed French woodblock printed wallpaper by Zuber & Cie. It opened to the members on December 11, 1928.\n\nA interesting photograph of the Club's magnificent Walnut-paneled library was featured in the March 27, 1948 edition of New Yorker Magazine showing the room with its commodious library tables, its generously proportioned red leather chairs and sofas, and shelves of classic books rising up to the plaster-work ceiling: the room looks very much the same today and has changed little in the more than seven decades since this publication.\n\nThe facade of the clubhouse was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2003. Today, the Club's walnut-paneled billiard room with teak wood floor is one of the few surviving grand billiard rooms in the United States still in use for its original purpose. The racquet sport of Squash was first introduced in Louisville at the Pendennis Club in 1930, when the first of two handball courts was converted to Squash.\n\nThe Pendennis Club has been the venue for numerous debutante presentations and parties along with other major social events of the year.\n\nPeriodically since at least 1941, the Pendennis Club has hosted a stag boxing night–with a boxing ring set up in the Club's grand Georgian ballroom. On February 19, 1960, then Cassius Clay (Muhammad Ali) participated in this event, in which he scored a third-round technical knockout over Ronnie Craddock, whom he had also just beaten in the recent Golden Gloves heavyweight final. Later that year, he participated in the Olympics and turned professional. His participation in the Club's event is not surprising since at least five of the eleven Louisville men who sponsored him in his early years were Club members.\n\nThat was not the only notable event in the Club's ballroom as it was the setting for the “Belmont Ball” scene in the 2010 Disney movie Secretariat on October 9, 2009.\n\nNumerous Club events have long accompanied the annual running of the Kentucky Derby. Various celebrities and royalty have been guests at the Club for these events, including at its very popular Post Derby Party on the night of the race.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36777120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36777120", "title": "Polish immigrants in Iceland", "text": "Polish immigrants in Iceland\n\nThere have been several different migratory movements of Poles to Iceland. The earliest on record occurred at the turn of the 19th century after Poland lost its statehood. However, for much of the Cold War period most of the Polish population was restricted in their ability to travel outside of communist Poland at all.\n\nMore recently in 2004, an influx occurred after Poland joined the European Union, thereby easing restrictions on Polish citizens' eligibility to work in other European Economic Area states. As of 1 January 2017, there were 13,795 Polish people living in Iceland. Although small compared to the size of migrant groups in other countries, that makes them the biggest minority ethnic group in Iceland. As of 2010, they represented 37% of migrants in Iceland. In 2006, Iceland's construction industry boomed and Polish workers were increasingly hired to fulfill work demands. Within a year, the number of Polish migrants in the country increased by 81%. Poland also joined Iceland in the Schengen Zone in 2007. As a consequence of these changes, Poles do not need work or resident permits to live and work in Iceland. The global financial crisis of 2008 incited further immigration to Iceland.\n\nThe demographic is largely endogamous and insular. Poles in Iceland typically speak Polish, watch Polish television, continue to practice Catholicism and have opened Polish restaurants. A study conducted in 2012 suggested that most Poles in the country used the English language more often than Icelandic in their daily lives, found English more useful and often learned it before learning Icelandic. While some commentary has found that, despite their difficulty assimilating, Poles have not often been met with much xenophobia in Iceland, academic research has found that Eastern European migrants in Iceland do experience significant racism and xenophobia.\n\n"}
{"id": "48563218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48563218", "title": "Public hypersphere", "text": "Public hypersphere\n\nPublic hypersphere is a new kind of public sphere that has come into existence globally through the use of modern information technology, digital media, and computer networks.\n\nSwedish writer Karl-Erik Tallmo used the corresponding Swedish term \"hyperoffentlighet\" in an article in the daily \"Sydsvenska Dagbladet\" in 1999 and the same year also the English expression \"public hypersphere\" in an article in the journal \"Human IT\".\n\nThe term is derived from Jürgen Habermas and his thoughts concerning a \"bourgeois public sphere\". The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not. It encompasses both voluntary participation as well as involuntary, through mass surveillance: \"The electronic traces we leave constantly write our autobiographies ... [The public hypersphere is] a gas that fills the entire available space, it is 'the place that doesn't exist'.\" The public hypersphere is \"not just public or transparent to a higher degree than the regular public sphere; it has a whole new structure. Mathematicians talk about \"hyperspheres\" when they want to describe a sphere of higher dimensionality, where normal geometric rules don't apply – here, the shortest path between two points is not necessarily a straight line.\"\n\nThe French philosopher and media scholar Pierre Lévy used the expression \"l'hypersphère publique\" in an article in 2011 in the journal \"Medium\". He describes the combined effect of social media, real time functions, and wireless technology. He mentions API programming as important when it comes to connecting various databases with different interfaces. He writes that traditional information monopolies are dissolved and a kind of \"digital ecosystem\" has evolved, where old and new media interact. Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts. All these new phenomena \"contribute in building a ubiquitous medium, hypercomplex and fractal, that everyone, \"nolens volens\", partake in designing, directing and using ...\" Lévy has also written about the transformation of the public sphere in his book \"Cyberdémocratie\" (2002).\n\nIn German, the word \"Hyperöffentlichkeit\" has been used by sociologist Udo Thiedeke in his characterization of Howard Rheingold's ideas concerning the virtual community, that is a high degree of participation and interactivity.\n"}
{"id": "11793486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11793486", "title": "Serer people", "text": "Serer people\n\nThe Serer people are a West African ethnic group. They are the third largest ethnic group in Senegal making up 15% of the Senegalese population. They are also found in northern Gambia and southern Mauritania.\n\nThe Serer people originated in the Senegal River valley at the border of Senegal and Mauritania, moved south in the 11th and 12th century, then again in the 15th and 16th centuries as their villages were invaded and they were subjected to religious pressures. They have had a sedentary settled culture and have been known for their farming expertise and transhumant stock-raising.\n\nThe Serer people have been historically noted as a matrilineal ethnic group that long resisted the expansion of Islam, fought against jihads in the 19th century, then opposed the French colonial rule. In the 20th century, most of them converted to Islam (Sufism), but some are Christians or follow their traditional religion. The Serer society, like other ethnic groups in Senegal, has had social stratification featuring endogamous castes and slaves.\n\nThe Serer people are also referred to as Sérère, Sereer, Serere, Sarer, Kegueme, Seereer and sometimes wrongly \"Serre\".\n\nThe Serer people are primarily found in contemporary Senegal, particularly in the west-central part of the country, running from the southern edge of Dakar to the Gambian border. In The Gambia, they occupy parts of old \"Nuimi\" and \"Baddibu\" as well as the Gambian \"Kombo\". The Serer-Noon occupy the ancient area of Thiès in modern-day Senegal. The Serer-Ndut are found in southern Cayor and north west of ancient Thiès. The Serer-Njeghen occupy old Baol; the Serer-Palor occupies the west central, west southwest of Thiès and the Serer-Laalaa occupy west central, north of Thiès and the Tambacounda area.\n\nThe Serer people are diverse and though they spread throughout the Senegambia region, they are more numerous in places like old Baol, Sine, Saloum and in the Gambia, which was a colony of the Kingdom of Saloum.\n\n\nThe Serer (also known as \"Seex\" or \"Sine-Sine\") occupy the Sine and Saloum areas (now part of modern-day independent Senegal). The Serer people include the \"Seex\" (Serer or Serer-Sine), Serer-Noon (sometimes spelt \"Serer-None\", \"Serer-Non\" or just \"Noon\"), Serer-Ndut (also spelt \"N’doute\"), Serer-Njeghene (sometimes spelt \"Serer-Dyegueme\" or \"Serer-Gyegem\" or \"Serer-N'Diéghem\"), Serer-Safene, Serer-Niominka, Serer-Palor (also known as \"Falor\", \"Palar\", \"Siili\", \"Siili-Mantine\", \"Siili-Siili\", \"Waro\" or just \"Serer\"), and the Serer-Laalaa (sometimes known as \"Laa\", \"La\" or \"Lâ\" or just \"Serer\"). Each group speaks Serer or a Cangin language. \"Serer\" is the standard English spelling. \"Seereer\" or \"Sereer\" reflects the Serer pronunciation of the name and are mostly used by Senegalese Serer historians or scholars.\n\nThe meaning of the word \"Serer\" is uncertain. Issa Laye Thiaw views it as possibly pre-Islamic and suggests four possible derivations:\n\n1. From the Serer Wolof word \"reer\" meaning 'misplaced', i.e. doubting the truth of Islam.<br>\n2. From the Serer Wolof expression \"seer reer\" meaning \"to find something hidden or lost.\" <br>\n3. From \"the Arabic word seereer meaning sahir magician or one who practices magic (an allusion to the traditional religion)\". <br>\n4. From a Pulaar word meaning separation, divorce, or break, again referring to rejecting Islam.\n\nProfessor Cheikh Anta Diop citing the work of the 19th century French archeologist and Egyptologist, Paul Pierret, states that the word \"Serer\" means \"he who traces the temple.\" Diop went on to write: \"That would be consistent with their present religious position: they are one of the rare Senegalese populations who still reject Islam. Their route is marked by the upright stones found at about the same latitude from Ethiopia all the way to the Sine-Salum, their present habitat.\"\n\nProfessor Dennis Galvan writes that \"The oral historical record, written accounts by early Arab and European explorers, and physical anthropological evidence suggest that the various Serer peoples migrated south from the Fuuta Tooro region (Senegal River valley) beginning around the eleventh century, when Islam first came across the Sahara.\" Over generations these people, possibly Pulaar speaking herders originally, migrated through Wolof areas and entered the Siin and Saluum river valleys. This lengthy period of Wolof-Serer contact has left us unsure of the origins of shared \"terminology, institutions, political structures, and practices.\"\n\nProfessor Étienne Van de Walle gave a slightly later date, writing that \"The formation of the Sereer ethnicity goes back to the thirteenth century, when a group came from the Senegal River valley in the north fleeing Islam, and near Niakhar met another group of Mandinka origin, called the Gelwar, who were coming from the southeast (Gravrand 1983). The actual Sereer ethnic group is a mixture of the two groups, and this may explain their complex bilinear kinship system\".\n\nTheir own oral traditions recite legends on they being part of, or related to the Toucouleur people in the Senegal River valley area. Serer people resisted Islamization and later Wolofization from possibly the 11th century during the Almoravid movement, and migrated south where they intermixed with the Diola people. They also violently resisted the 19th century jihads and Marabout movement to convert Senegambia to Islam.\n\nAfter the Ghana Empire was sacked as certain kingdoms gained their independence, Abu-Bakr Ibn-Umar, leader of the Almoravids launched a jihad into the region. According to Serer oral history, a Serer bowman named Amar Godomat shot and killed Abu-Bakr Ibn-Umar with an arrow.\n\nThe last kings of Sine and Saloum were Maad a Sinig Mahecor Joof (also spelt : Mahecor Diouf) and Maad Saloum Fode N'Gouye Joof (also spelt : Fodé N’Gouye Diouf or Fode Ngui Joof) respectively. They both died in 1969. After their deaths, the Serer Kingdoms of Sine and Saloum were incorporated into independent Senegal which gained its independence from France in 1960. The Serer kingdoms of Sine and Saloum are two of few pre-colonial African Kingdoms whose royal dynasty survived up to the 20th century.\n\nSerer kingdoms included the Kingdom of Sine and the Kingdom of Saloum. In addition to these twin Serer kingdoms, the Serers also ruled in the Wolof kingdoms such as Jolof, Waalo, Cayor and Baol. The Kingdom of Baol was originally an old Serer Kingdom ruled by the Serer paternal dynasties such as Joof family, the Njie family, etc. and the Wagadou maternal dynasty prior to the Battle of Danki in 1549. The Faal (var: Fall) paternal dynasty of Cayor and Baol that ruled after 1549 following the Battle of Danki were originally Black Moors (\"Naari Kajoor\"). Prior to the Faal dynasty of Cayor and Baol, these two kingdoms were ruled by the Serer people with the patrilineages \"Joof\" or Diouf, Faye and Njie, and the maternal lineage of Wagadou – members of the royal families from the Ghana Empire (proper \"Wagadou Empire\") who married into the Serer aristocracy.\n\nAll the kings that ruled Serer Kingdoms had Serer surnames, with the exception of the Mboge and Faal paternal dynasties whose reigns are very recent and they did not provide many kings.\n\nIn contemporary times, about 85% of the Serers are Muslim, while others are Christian. Some Serers still follow traditional religious beliefs.\n\nAccording to James Olson – professor of History specializing on Ethnic Group studies, the Serer people \"violently resisted the expansion of Islam\" by the Wolof people in the 19th century, and then became a target of the 1861 jihad led by the Mandinka cleric Ma Ba Jaxoo. The inter-ethnic wars involving the Serer continued till 1887 when the French colonial forces conquered Senegal. Thereafter, the conversion of the Serer people accelerated. By early 1910s, about 40% of the Serer people had adopted Islam, and by 1990s about 85% of them were Muslims. Most of the newly converted Serer people have joined Sufi Muslim Brotherhoods, particularly the Mouride and Tijaniyyah Tariqas.\n\nThe Serer traditional religion is called \"a ƭat Roog\" ('the way of the Divine'). It believes in a universal Supreme Deity called Roog (var : \"Rog\"). The Cangin language speakers refer to the supreme being as \"Koox\". Serer religious beliefs encompasses ancient chants and poems; veneration and offerings to Serer gods, goddesses, the pangool (ancestral spirits and saints); astronomy; rites of passage; medicine; cosmology and the history of the Serer people.\n\nThe Serers practice trade, agriculture, fishing, boat building and animal husbandry. Traditionally the Serer people have been farmers and land owners. Although they practice animal husbandry, they are generally less known for that, as in the past, Serer nobles entrusted their herds to the pastoralist Fulas, even today. However, they are known for their mixed-farming. Trade is also a recent phenomenon among some Serers. For the Serers, the soil (where their ancestors lay in rest) is very important to them and they guard it with jealousy. They have a legal framework governing every aspect of life even land law with strict guidelines. Apart from agriculture (and other forms of production or occupation such as animal husbandry, fishing especially among the Serer-Niominka, boat building, etc.), some occupations especially trade they viewed as vulgar, common and ignoble. Hence in the colonial era, especially among the Serer nobles, they would hire others to do the trading on their behalf (e.g. Moors) acting as their middle men.\n\nThe Serer people have traditionally been a socially stratified society, like many West African ethnic groups with castes.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Berg, Ruth Wan and Ruth Lau, Serer people in Senegal did not have a caste system before the Malinka rulers conquered them and introduced a caste system. In other regions where Serer people are found, state JD Fage, Richard Gray and Roland Oliver, the Wolof and Toucouleur peoples introduced the caste system among the Serer people.\n\nThe social stratification historically evidenced among the Serer people has been, except for one difference, very similar to those found among Wolof, Fulbe, Toucouleur and Mandinka peoples found in Senegambia. They all have had strata of free nobles and peasants, artisan castes, and slaves. The difference is that the Serer people have retained a matrilineal inheritance system. According to Martin Klein – a professor of History specializing in African Studies, the caste systems among the Serer emerged as a consequence of the Mandinka people's Sine-Saloum guelowar conquest, and when the Serer people sought to adapt and participate in the new Senegambian state system.\n\nThe hierarchical highest status among the Serer people has been those of hereditary nobles and their relatives, which meant blood links to the Mandinka conquerors. Below the nobles, came \"tyeddo\", or the warriors and chiefs who had helped the Mandinka rulers and paid tribute. The third status, and the largest strata came to be the \"jambur\", or free peasants who lacked the power of the nobles. Below the \"jambur\" were the artisan castes, who inherited their occupation. These castes included blacksmiths, weavers, jewelers, leatherworkers, carpenters, griots who kept the oral tradition through songs and music. Of these all castes had a taboo in marrying a griot, and they could not be buried like others. Below the artisan castes in social status have been the slaves, who were either bought at slave markets, seized as captives, or born to a slave parent.\n\nThe slave castes continue to be despised, they do not own land and work as tenant farmers, marriage across caste lines is forbidden and lying about one's caste prior to marriage has been a ground for divorce. The land has been owned by the upper social strata, with the better plots near the villages belonging to the nobles. The social status of the slave has been inherited by birth.\n\nThe Serer's favourite food is called Chere (or chereh) in the Serer language - (pounded coos). They control all the phases of this dish from production to preparation. Other ethnic groups (or Serers), tend to buy it from Serer women market traders or contract it out to them especially if they are holding major ceremonial events. Chere is very versatile and can be eaten with fermented milk or cream and sugar as a breakfast cereal or prepared just as a standard couscous. The Serer traditional attire is called \"Serr\". It is normally woven by Serer men and believed to bring good luck among those who wear it. Marriages are usually arranged. In the event of the death of an elder, the sacred \"Gamba\" (a big calabash with a small hollow-out) is beaten followed by the usual funeral regalia to send them off to the next life.\n\nSenegalese wrestling called \"Laamb\" or \"Njom\" in Serer originated from the Serer Kingdom of Sine. It was a preparatory exercise for war among the warrior classes. That style of wrestling (a brutal and violent form) is totally different from the sport wrestling enjoyed by all Senegambian ethnic groups today, nevertheless the ancient rituals are still visible in the sport version. Among the Serers, wrestling is classified into different techniques and each technique takes several years to master. Children start young trying to master the basics before moving on to the more advance techniques like the \"mbapatte\", which is one of the oldest techniques and totally different from modern wrestling. Yékini (real name: \"Yakhya Diop\"), who is a professional wrestler in Senegal is one of the top wrestlers proficient in the \"mbapatte\" technique. \"Lamba\" and \"sabar\" (musical instruments) are used as music accompaniments in wrestling matches as well as in circumcision dances and royal festivals. Serer wrestling crosses ethnic boundaries and is a favourite pastime for Senegalese and Gambians alike.\n\nThe Sabar (drum) tradition associated with the Wolof people originated from the Serer Kingdom of Sine and spread to the Kingdom of Saloum. The Wolof people who migrated to Serer Saloum picked it up from there and spread it to Wolof Kingdoms. Each motif has a purpose and is used for different occasions. Individual motifs represent the history and genealogy of a particular family and are used during weddings, naming ceremonies, funerals etc.\n\nThe \"Njuup\" (progenitor of Mbalax) and \"Tassu\" traditions (also \"Tassou\") (progenitor of rap music) both originated from the Serer people. The Tassu was used when chanting ancient religious verses. The people would sing then interweave it with a Tassu. The late Serer Diva Yandé Codou Sène who was the griot of the late and former president of Senegal (Leopold Sedar Senghor) was proficient in the \"Tassu\". She was the best \"Tassukat\" (one who Tassu) of her generation. Originally religious in nature, the griots of Senegambia regardless of ethnic group or religion picked it up from Serer religious practices and still use it in different occasions e.g. marriages, naming ceremonies or when they are just singing the praises of their patrons. Most Senegalese and Gambian artists use it in their songs even the younger generation like \"Baay Bia\". The Senegalese music legend Youssou N'Dour who is also a Serer, uses \"Tassu\" in many of his songs.\n\nIn the pre-colonial era, Moors from Mauritania who came to settle in the Serer kingdoms such as the Kingdom of Sine, etc., were ill treated by their Serer masters. If a Moor dies in a Serer kingdom, his body was dragged out of the country and left for the vultures to feast on if there is no family or friend to claim the body and bury it elsewhere. They were also never accompanied by grave goods. No matter how long a Mauritanian Moor has lived in the area as a migrant, he could never achieve high status within the Serer aristocracy. The best position he could ever wish for within Serer high society was to work as a \"Bissit\" (Bissik). Apart from spying for the Serer Kings, the \"Bissit's\" main job was to be a clown - for the sole entertainment of the Serer King, the Serer aristocracy and the common people. He was expected to dance in ceremonies before the king and liven up the king's mood and the king's subjects. This position was always given to the Moors. It was a humiliating job and not a title of honour. According to some, the history of this position goes back to an early Moor in Serer country who had a child by his own daughter.\n\nSerers and Toucouleurs are linked by a bond of \"cousinage\". This is a tradition common to many ethnic groups of West Africa known as \"Maasir\" (var : \"Massir\") in Serer language (Joking relationship) or \"kal\", which comes from \"kalir\" (a deformation of the Serer word \"kucarla\" meaning paternal lineage or paternal inheritance). This joking relationship enables one group to criticise another, but also obliges the other with mutual aid and respect. The Serers call this \"Maasir\" or \"Kalir\". This is because the Serers and the Toucouleurs are related - according to Wiliam J. foltz \"Tukulor are a mixture of Fulani and Serer\" The Serers also maintain the same bond with the Jola people with whom they have an ancient relationship. In the Serer ethnic group, this same bond exists between the Serer patronym, for example between Joof and Faye.\n\nMany Senegambian people also refer to this joking relations as \"kal\" (used between first cousins for example between the children of a paternal aunt and a maternal uncle) and \"gamo\" (used between tribes). \"Kal\" derives from the Serer word \"Kalir\" a deformation of \"kurcala\" which means paternal lineage or inheritance and is used exactly in that context by many Senegambians. The word \"gamo\" derives from the old Serer word \"gamohu\" - an ancient divination ceremony.\n\nMost people who identify themselves as Serer speak the Serer language. This is spoken in Sine-Saloum, Kaolack, Diourbel, Dakar, and in Gambia, and is part of the national curriculum of Senegal. Historically the Serer people’s unwillingness to trade directly during the colonial era was a double edged sword to the Serer language as well as the Cangin languages. That resulted in the Wolof language being the dominant language in the market place as well as the factories. However, the Serer language among with other local languages are now part of the national curriculum of Senegal.\n\nAbout 200,000 Serer speak various Cangin languages, such as Ndut and Saafi, which are not closely related to Serer proper (Serer-Sine language). There are clear lexical similarities among the Cangin languages. However, they are more closely related to other languages than to Serer, and vice versa. For comparison in the table below, 85% is approximately the dividing line between dialects and different languages.\n\nSome notable Gambian Serers include Isatou Njie-Saidy, Vice President of the Gambia since 20 March 1997, and the late Senegambian historian, politician and advocate for Gambia's independence during the colonial era – Alhaji Alieu Ebrima Cham Joof. In Senegal they include Léopold Sédar Senghor and Abdou Diouf (first and second president of Senegal respectively) and Pascal Ndione.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3252469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3252469", "title": "Sexpo", "text": "Sexpo\n\nSEXPO, is a health, sexuality and lifestyle exhibition that takes place in Australia, the United Kingdom, and South Africa. Founded in 1995, the event has gone on to be held over 80 times nationally. SEXPO includes exhibitors, a health and wellness seminar theatre, special interest zones, amusements, bars, live stage entertainment and will often feature celebrities and guests from the adult industry.\n\nSEXPO was created in 1995 as a way of bringing adult health, sexuality and lifestyle products and services into a safe, secure and mainstream setting. The first ever SEXPO was held in 1996 at the Carlton Crest Hotel, Albert Park. Due to its overwhelming success, the event was moved to the Melbourne Convention & Exhibition Centre in 1997 where it has remained since. SEXPO has gone on to visit most capital cities of Australia, including many regional cities as well. \n\nOver it's lifetime, SEXPO has attracted over 3 million collective visitors nationally, and generated tens of millions of dollars to the host city. \n\nSEXPO Australia celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2016 and SEXPO South Africa celebrated its 10th anniversary. SEXPO debuted in the United Kingdom in 2015.\n\nIts head office is located in Melbourne, Australia.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "55225229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55225229", "title": "Social Change Assistance Trust", "text": "Social Change Assistance Trust\n\nThe Social Change Assistance Trust (SCAT) is a South African non-profit advocacy organisation established in 1984 to advocate for human rights and social justice philanthropy. \n\nSCAT focuses its projects in the rural areas of four South African provinces. The Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, and the Free State. It focuses on projects that are community centred and community driven with a primarily focuses on projects that tackle inequality and injustice. SCAT's primary function is as a grant making organisation that also provides capacity building and conducts project assessments of supported projects in rural areas. \n\nSCAT was established by Barry Streek, Gordon Young and Di Oliver in 1984 to help provide resources to poor rural communities that have been their right since the establishment of democracy in South Africa in 1994. Initial funding for the organisation came from the Church of Norway.\n\nAs of 2006 the organisation worked with 58 rural partners. In 2005 the organisation experienced a short fall in funding due to declining commitments from established donors and inadequate fund raising capabilities. This required the organisation to change its method of operation. This led the organisation to start scaling down operations, reduce administration staff, and balance budgets to rely on committed income streams. Between 1984 and 2014 SCAT reportedly supported 515 Local Development Agencies.\n"}
{"id": "11033392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033392", "title": "Syrian Canadians", "text": "Syrian Canadians\n\nSyrian Canadians refers to Canadians who can trace their ancestry back to Syria. According to the 2016 Census, there were 77,050 Syrian Canadians compared to the 2011 Census where there were 40,840.\n\nSyrians started immigrating to the Americas in the early part of the 1880s, the vast majority made South America their permanent home, a small percentage made their way to US, and an even smaller percentage settled in Canada. The overwhelming majority of Syrians who settled in Canada from the 1880s until the 1960s were of the Christian faith. The so-called Shepard of the lost flock, Saint Raphael Hawaweeny of Brooklyn, New York, came to Montreal in 1896 to help establish a Christian association called the \"Syrian Benevolent Society\" and then later on an Orthodox church in Montreal for the newly arrived Syrian faithful.\n\nSince 2015, When Justin Trudeau was elected Prime Minister of Canada, over 40,000 Syrian refugees have been brought into Canada.\n\nThe leading factor for the immigration of Syrians has been to find better jobs. The early immigrants found themselves engaging in basic commerce, with the term 'peddler' becoming almost synonymous with 'Syrian'. Most of these peddlers were successful, and, with time, and after raising enough capital, some became importers and wholesalers, recruiting newcomers and supplying them with merchandise. Others opened small businesses in urban centres all over the country. Later, these merchants would gravitate towards larger urban locations, where the economy was flourishing. Smaller number of Syrians worked as labourers in factories, miners, or as lumber workers. Also, some became pioneers in the southern prairie regions of western Canada, and worked in farming. These workers settled in communities such as Swift Current, Saskatchewan, and Lac La Biche, Alberta. Few reached the Northwest Territories, the best known being Peter Baker, author of the book \"An Arctic Arab\", and later elected as a member of the legislative assembly of the Northwest Territories. By the 1930s, many towns in the Maritimes, Quebec, Ontario, and western Canada had one or more stores run by Syrian immigrants.\n\nWomen also worked occasionally, in addition to household chores, and usually helped run the family store if they had one, and in the cities they would sell goods from door to door.\n\n\n\"Sabah\", a 2005 film directed by Ruba Nadda, portrays a Syrian Canadian family in Toronto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8786210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8786210", "title": "The Romany Rye", "text": "The Romany Rye\n\nThe Romany Rye is a novel by George Borrow, written in 1857 as a sequel to \"Lavengro\" (1851).\nLargely thought to be at least partly autobiographical, \"The Romany Rye\" follows from \"Lavengro\" (1851). The title can be translated from Romany as \"Gipsy Gentleman\". Mrs George Borrow wrote on 18 October 1853 to John Murray, his publisher, saying her husband had completed his work – \"which he proposes to call \"The Romany Rye – A Sequel to Lavengro.\"\"\n\nThe story itself follows the journey of a learned young man living with Romanies. It is a philosophical adventure story of sorts.\n\nA pub located in Colman Road, Norwich, was named \"The Romany Rye\", and later \"The Romany Beer House\" before it ceased trading in November 2008. The Wetherspoons public house chain used the name \"Romany Rye\" for their pub, opened in Dereham, Norfolk, in 2011. Borrow was born in the town.\n"}
{"id": "40964352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40964352", "title": "Uruguayans in Paraguay", "text": "Uruguayans in Paraguay\n\nUruguayan Paraguayans are people born in Uruguay who live in Paraguay, or Paraguayan-born people of Uruguayan descent. As of 2007, there were over 1,000 Uruguayans living on Paraguayan territory, a figure that notably increased a decade later.\n\nThere are lots of Uruguayan-born persons living in Paraguay, for a number of reasons. Both countries share the Spanish language; the historical origins of both nations is common (part of the Spanish Empire until the early 19th century); both countries are members of MERCOSUR, there is no need of special migration documents, and geographical vicinity makes circulation easy.\n\nIn the decade of the 2010s there have been several Uruguayan investors purchasing productive land in Paraguay.\n\nUruguayan residents in Paraguay have their own institutions, for instance, the Consultative Council \"José Gervasio Artigas\" in Asunción.\n\n\n"}
