{"id": "944742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944742", "title": "Administrative resource", "text": "Administrative resource\n\nAdministrative resource is the ability of political candidates (and parties) to use their official positions or connections to government institutions to influence the outcome of elections.\n\nThe term is widely used in Russia and other former USSR countries, because the practice is widespread, is well known and is openly discussed by public and media. In these countries, the administrative resource is one of the major factors in most elections. Although similar practices of corruption are conducted throughout the world in countries with fragile democracies, the term administrative resource is ascribed almost exclusively to Russia. Moreover, the utilization of administrative resources is generally not considered to be a democratic form of electioneering but in fact as a tool used to undermine democracy.\n\nThe administrative resource is only one part that determines the election outcome. Two other major factors are the ideology (candidate's agenda) and the use of political technologies (PR, campaign organisation, etc.).\n\nAmong many different ways the administrative resource can be applied are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2590524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2590524", "title": "Amakasu incident", "text": "Amakasu incident\n\nThe Amakasu Incident (\"Amakasu jiken\") refers to a crime in which the Lieutenant Amakasu Masahiko was found responsible for the murders of two anarchists and a young boy in September 1923.\n\nFollowing Japan's Great Kantō earthquake in early September 1923, a police squadron led by Lieutenant Amakasu Masahiko sought out two noted anarchist-socialist leaders, the feminist Noe Itō and her partner, the anarchist Sakae Ōsugi. Together they were beaten and killed by the police along with Ōsugi's six-year-old nephew, and their bodies disposed in a well. Following countrywide outcry, Amakasu was court-martialed and sentenced to 10 years in prison. When Hirohito became Emperor of Japan three years later, Amakasu was released. He studied in France and became a special agent for the Imperial Japanese Army in Manchuria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8190902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8190902", "title": "Anomaly detection", "text": "Anomaly detection\n\nIn data mining, anomaly detection (also outlier detection) is the identification of rare items, events or observations which raise suspicions by differing significantly from the majority of the data. Typically the anomalous items will translate to some kind of problem such as bank fraud, a structural defect, medical problems or errors in a text. Anomalies are also referred to as outliers, novelties, noise, deviations and exceptions.\n\nIn particular, in the context of abuse and network intrusion detection, the interesting objects are often not \"rare\" objects, but unexpected \"bursts\" in activity. This pattern does not adhere to the common statistical definition of an outlier as a rare object, and many outlier detection methods (in particular unsupervised methods) will fail on such data, unless it has been aggregated appropriately. Instead, a cluster analysis algorithm may be able to detect the micro clusters formed by these patterns.\n\nThree broad categories of anomaly detection techniques exist. Unsupervised anomaly detection techniques detect anomalies in an unlabeled test data set under the assumption that the majority of the instances in the data set are normal by looking for instances that seem to fit least to the remainder of the data set. Supervised anomaly detection techniques require a data set that has been labeled as \"normal\" and \"abnormal\" and involves training a classifier (the key difference to many other statistical classification problems is the inherent unbalanced nature of outlier detection). Semi-supervised anomaly detection techniques construct a model representing normal behavior from a given \"normal\" training data set, and then test the likelihood of a test instance to be generated by the learnt model.\n\nAnomaly detection is applicable in a variety of domains, such as intrusion detection, fraud detection, fault detection, system health monitoring, event detection in sensor networks, and detecting ecosystem disturbances. It is often used in preprocessing to remove anomalous data from the dataset. In supervised learning, removing the anomalous data from the dataset often results in a statistically significant increase in accuracy.\n\nSeveral anomaly detection techniques have been proposed in literature. Some of the popular techniques are:\n\n\nThe performance of different methods depends a lot on the data set and parameters, and methods have little systematic advantages over another when compared across many data sets and parameters.\n\nAnomaly detection was proposed for intrusion detection systems (IDS) by Dorothy Denning in 1986. Anomaly detection for IDS is normally accomplished with thresholds and statistics, but can also be done with soft computing, and inductive learning. Types of statistics proposed by 1999 included profiles of users, workstations, networks, remote hosts, groups of users, and programs based on frequencies, means, variances, covariances, and standard deviations. The counterpart of anomaly detection in intrusion detection is misuse detection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3391372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3391372", "title": "Argentine National Gendarmerie", "text": "Argentine National Gendarmerie\n\nThe Argentine National Gendarmerie (, GNA) is the gendarmerie and corps of border guards of Argentina.\n\nThe Argentine National Gendarmerie has a strength of 70,000.\n\nThe Gendarmerie is primarily a frontier guard force but also fulfils other important roles. The force functions from what are today five regional headquarters at Campo de Mayo, Córdoba, Rosario, San Miguel de Tucumán and Bahía Blanca.\n\nNon-commissioned personnel of the Gendarmerie are all volunteers and receive their training in the force's own comprehensive system of training institutions. Officers graduate after a three-year course at the National Gendarmerie Academy. Both officers and non-commissioned personnel have access to the specialist training establishments of the Army.\n\nThe Gendarmerie was created in 1938 by the National Congress, and replaced the regiments of the Army which previously fulfilled the Gendarmerie's missions. The Gendarmerie was particularly tasked with providing security in isolated and sparsely populated frontier regions which had only been settled relatively recently. In many senses the Gendarmerie may still be considered an adjunct of the Argentine Army.\n\nThe Gendarmerie's mission and functions are concerned with both domestic security and national defense.\n\nAccording to the Argentine Constitution, the armed forces cannot intervene in internal civil conflicts, so the Gendarmerie is subordinate to the Interior Ministry. It is defined as a civilian \"security force of a military nature\". It maintains a functional relationship with the Ministry of Defense, as part of both the National Defense System and the Interior Security System. It therefore maintains capabilities arising from the demands required by joint military planning with the armed forces.\n\nThe Gendarmerie's main missions are:\n\nThe Gendarmerie is also used for other security missions, which include:\n\n\nUnder the United Nations, the Gendarmerie has served in Guatemala, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Angola, Lebanon, Rwanda and Haiti.\n\nThe high command includes:\n\n\nThe ranks of the Argentine Gendarmerie, in ascending order, are:\n\nSub-Officer Ranks\n\nThe ranks up to and including sergeant are classified as Subaltern Sub-Officers (\"Suboficiales Subalternos\"), and the remainder are classified as Superior Sub-Officers (\"Suboficiales Superiores\"). The sub-officer ranks are the same as Argentine army ranks, and wear the same insignia, but with a much thicker gold band for a Gendarmerie Principal Sub-Officer than is used in the Army.\n\nOfficer Ranks\n\nThe ranks up to and including \"Segundo Comandante\" are classified as Subaltern Officers (\"Oficiales Subalternos\"). Gendarmerie officers wear the same insignia as the equivalent Argentine Army rank. The National Director and his Deputy wear the insignia of an Argentine Lieutenant-General and Divisional General respectively, although they still have the rank of Commandant-General. (NB: Lieutenant-General is the highest Argentine Army rank.)\n\n\n\n\nThe service has a small inventory of aircraft, based at Campo de Mayo.\n\n"}
{"id": "57868657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57868657", "title": "Austro-Hungarian strike of January 1918", "text": "Austro-Hungarian strike of January 1918\n\nThe 1918 Austro-Hungarian January Strike was a strike which spread across the Austro-Hungarian empire between January 3 and 25, 1918 demanding better living and working conditions and an end to the First World War. It is known as the \"Jännerstreik\" as opposed to the \"Januarstreik\" – a similar strike movement which lasted from 25 January to 1 February 1918 in Germany - Jänner being the usual spelling for January in Austria.\n\nThere had been strikes in early 1917 by Viennese workers in response to food shortages. However by the winter of 1917 the situation had got worse. However news of the Bolshevik seizure of power in Russia encouraged workers in Vienna and more generally across Europe to emulate their example with the demand that the war be ended or more strikes would be organised. The leadership of the Sozialdemokratische Arbeiterpartei Österreichs (SDAPÖ) was slow to react although the youth wing of the party started to organise and local sections also prepared for action. In early January the party took a clearer anti-war position, particularly in relation to the Brest-Litovsk negotiations and convened three large meetings in Vienna on Sunday 13 January. On 6 January a demonstration by 4,000 angry Hungarian workers in Budapest occurred outside the German Consulate. They actively supported the peace plan of the Bolshevik negotiator, Adolph Joffe, and several window of the consulate were smashed. By the 13 January, the three large meetings had grown to five and the topic was \"The Peace Negotiation in Brest-Litovsk and Social Democracy\". Ellenbogen, Domes and Karl Renner delivered speeches where they said that a victorious peace was impossible. However they were heckled by workers calling out \"Long LIve the Austrian Revolution\".\n\nWhen the flour ration was halved on 14 January 1918 the workers in Wiener Neustadt, particularly the 4,500 working for Austro-Daimler downed tools and went on strike. The strike soon spread to the nearby Wiener Neustädter Lokomotivfabrik and through factories in Lower Austria and to the Lokomotivfabrik Floridsdorf which employed over 1,000 workers in Vienna. By 18 January over 110,000 of the total Viennese workforce of 350,000-370,000 people were on strike. From the strike meetings workers' councils were established as a form of participatory democracy. The executive of the Sozialdemokratische Arbeiterpartei Österreichs (SDAPÖ) had drawn up a list demands to be presented to the government. These were accepted by the workers' council. On January 19, Workers' Council received a delegation led by Count Ottokar Czernin, the Minister of Foreign Affairs who promised that territorial demands would not jeopardise the peace negotiations. The Minister-president, Ernst Seidler von Feuchtenegg promised to reform the war benefits and to establish a food service and the democratisation of municipal election law. In a turbulent session during the night of Saturday 19-20 January, the Workers' Council accepted the SDAPÖ proposal to call the workforce to resume work on Monday, January 21.\n\nThe strike was started by Budapest street car workers on the morning of 18th January. They were protesting about the ban on reports of the events in Austria. By noon the strike had spread across all industries, and 40,000 workers took part in fifteen different demonstration which were prevented by the police from converging on the centre of Budapest. The Hungarian Social Democratic Party declared a general strike. The following day the strike spread to Nagykanizsa and Szeged.\n\n"}
{"id": "56969632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56969632", "title": "Benisek v. Lamone", "text": "Benisek v. Lamone\n\nBenisek v. Lamone, 585 U.S. ____ (2018), was a case before the Supreme Court of the United States dealing with the topic of partisan gerrymandering, the second case heard in the 2017–2018 term following \"Gill v. Whitford\", which had been heard by the Court prior to accepting this case in December 2017.\n\nThe case centers on the redistricting of the state of Maryland, drawn up by the prevailing Democratic party in 2011, which diluted the number of Republican voters in the 6th district that had historically voted for Republican candidates. Affected voters filed suit, stating that the redistricting violated their right of representation under Article One, Section Two of the U.S. Constitution and freedom of association of the First Amendment.\n\nThe original suit, filed in 2013, was rejected in both federal District and Appeals Courts, ruling that the voters had failed to state a claim to be ruled upon, but the Supreme Court remanded the case back to the Appeals Court in 2015, stating that the lower courts had not properly weighed the partisan gerrymandering claims. As part of the second trial, which started in 2016, the plaintiffs had asked the Appeals Court to block the use of the 2011 district map in anticipation of the 2018 election, but the Court denied the injunction, and with the Supreme Court having accepted to hear \"Gill v. Whitford\", put the case on hold until the Supreme Court's decision was announced. The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court on the denial of the injunction related to the map, leading the Supreme Court to accept the case and hear the merits of their complaints.\n\nThe Court issued a \"per curiam\" decision on June 18, 2018, finding that the Appeals Court's denial of the injunction was not improper, but otherwise did not weigh in on the merits of the gerrymandering aspects. The District Court has since ruled that the redistricting map was unconstitutional, ordering the state to draw a new map by March 2019. The order is being challenged by the state's Democratic attorney general Brian Frosh.\n\nIn the United States, the number of Representatives within the House of Representatives that serve a state is based on the results of the United States Census, run every ten years. This leads to redistricting, changes in the boundaries of the state's district. Redistricting is typically done by representatives of the political party in power within the state, and can result in the practice of gerrymandering, creating oddly-shaped districts that help to favor the party's chances for election due to the population distribution within them. The Supreme Court has ruled that gerrymandering based on racial and ethnic grounds is unconstitutional, and had stated that partisan gerrymandering is also likely unconstitutional, but has yet to develop a valid means to determine when partisan gerrymandering has occurred.\n\nFor the 2010 Census, the Census Bureau recommended states to count incarcerated prisoners to be living in the location of their group quarters, rather than at their home location. Within Maryland, most prisoners are African-American, and the largest prisoner populations were located in the state's 4th and 6th districts, which are otherwise predominately populated by Caucasians. Because prisoners do not have the right to vote but would be counted as residents of those districts, this created concerns that \"prison-based gerrymandering,\" where those districts would be overrepresented in elections, and districts containing the metropolitan areas like Baltimore where most of these prisoners originated would be underrepresented. Maryland passed the first-of-its-kind civil act, the \"No Representation Without Population Act\", which would have prisoners counted in the Census within their home district instead.\n\nMaryland has traditionally been a Democratic-heavy state, and according to FiveThirtyEight, non-gerrymandered or proportionally partisan districts in Maryland could range from four to six likely Democrat seats, suggesting that a proper redistricting of the state's eight districts would end up with four to six districts favoring Democrats, and two to four either favoring Republicans or remaining competitive. Democratic analysts envisioned the possibility of an \"8-0 map\" which aspired to shut Republicans out of elections altogether; however, this may have endangered some incumbents, who rejected the proposal because they wanted to stay in office more easily. However, Democratic leaders suggested the potential to create a district map that give Democrats seven districts to the Republican's one, the \"7-1 map\". The state Democrats drew on services from National Committee for an Effective Congress (NCEC) to determine how to create this \"7-1 map\". This primarily came down to how to redistrict the current two Republican-leaning districts, the 1st and the 6th, with mapmakers settling on the 6th since redistricting the 1st would require them to draw district lines across Chesapeake Bay. Ultimately, a 7-1 map favoring Democrats was implemented.\n\nThe new redistricting was initially challenged in \"Fletcher v. Lamone\", raised by a number of African-American voters who believed that the new map diluted the strength of the African-American vote, violating the equal representation under Article One of the United States Constitution, equal protection from the 14th Amendment and equal voting rights from the 15th Amendment. They further challenged the \"No Representation Without Population Act\", believing this further constituted a dilution of their vote. The case was heard by a three-judge panel at the District Court of Maryland in December 2011, and in a unanimous decision, the District Court found in favor of the state, issuing a summary judgement that asserted the plaintiffs has not shown harm by the new district map nor from the Act. On appeal to the Supreme Court, the Court issues a summary disposition that upheld the District Court's ruling.\n\nHowever a separate challenge arose from other residents of the state in 2013. Aware the District Court of Maryland had ruled the redistricting map was not considered partisan from \"Fletcher v. Lamone\", these citizens challenged the redistricting's use of \"narrow ribbons and orifices\" that were used to connect non-contiguous regions with non-consistent population distribution that occurred in the state's 4th, 6th, 7th, and 8th districts. Of particular concern was the 6th district. Previously it covered most of the rural northwestern part of the state along the Pennsylvanian border, and was a predominately Republican district with a high Caucasian population that supported Representative Roscoe Bartlett for two decades. After redistricting, the 6th still covered the western arm of the state, but now include many of the suburban and metropolitan areas across the border from Washington D.C., increasing the population of African-American voters within it; the number of registered Republicans dropped by 70,000 voters, roughly 20% of the registered voters in the district. As a result, Bartlett lost his seat to Democrat John Delancy in the 2012 elections by more than 20% of the vote. The complaint stated that because these districts that were predominately Republican had been remapped to swing predominately Democratic, the redistricting map violated their rights of equal representation, the right to vote under the 14th Amendment, and the rights of association under the 1st Amendment.\n\nThe case, filed as \"Benisek v. Mack\", was reviewed by Judge James K. Bredar, who deemed that none of the complaints brought by the plaintiffs were not actionable and denied the request for a standard three-judge hearing in April 2014. Judge Bredar did find that the case represented a substantially different subset of residents of \"Fletcher\" and rejected the defense's argument for \"res judicata\". In regards to the plaintiffs' arguments, Judge Bredar found that the plaintiffs did not provide an effective measure to demonstrate partisan gerrymandering as suggested by \"Vieth v. Jubelirer\", nullifying their Article One and 14th Amendment claims, and that the citizens affects still had their rights to participate in the political process, denying any relief for the 1st Amendment claim. The plaintiffs appealed to the Fourth Circuit Appeals Court, but the appeal was summarily denied in October 2014 on the basis that there claims were insubstantial as determined by Bredar. The plaintiffs issued a petition for writ of \"certiorari\" from the Supreme Court of the United States, arguing that because the Districts Courts are required to hear any substantial constitutional challenges to state redistricting under Section 2284 of Title 28, the Appeals Court dismissal on the insubstantial claim was inappropriate. The case, \"Shapiro v. McManus\", was accepted by the Supreme Court in June 2015, with oral arguments in November 2015 and the decision issued in December 2015. The unanimous Court agreed with the petitioners, in that the claims presented related to the constitutionality of the redistricting were not insubstantial and cleared the bar set in \"Goosby v. Osser\", and ordered a full three-judge hearing at the District Court for the case, but otherwise did not comment on the merits of the petitioners complaints related to the redistricting.\n\nThe new hearing before Judges Bredar, Paul V. Niemeyer, and George Levi Russell III began in 2016. The plaintiffs had revised their case to focus specifically on the redistricting of the 6th district, which had the widest swing in voter demographics. While the state attempted to dismiss the case, the Court denied their dismissal in a 2-1 decision (with Bredar dissenting) in August 2016, allowing the case to move into the discovery phase. Both sides sought to expedite the case through summary judgements in mid-2017. However, on June 2017, the Supreme Court announced that they would be hearing the \"Gill v. Whitford\" case later that year. The plaintiffs in \"Benisek\" requested the District Court to issue an injunction from the state of Maryland from using the 2011 redistricting maps in anticipation of the upcoming 2018 elections, as the state of Maryland was seeking a stay of proceedings for the case until \"Gill v. Whitford\" was concluded. The District Court denied the plaintiffs' request, and issued a stay on the case in August 2017, pending the conclusion of \"Gill v. Whitford\".\n\nSeeking an expedited ruling, the plaintiffs filed a request for a jurisdictional statement to the Supreme Court on September 1, 2017 to reverse the District Court's denial of summary judgement and injunctions and placing the case on hold. While the Supreme Court denied to reverse the District Court's orders, the Court did agree to hear the case on its merits on December 8, 2017.\n\nOral arguments were heard on March 28, 2018. In contrast to \"Gill v. Whitford\", the Justices seemed to indicate that the Maryland redistricting of the 6th district was a much more aggressive partisan gerrymandering than with Wisconsin, but still debated if they had a proper measure to judge how much of a partisan division it was, whether the Court should be involved in that decision, or whether this is something to be regulated through federal or state legislation.\n\nThe Court issued its \"per curiam\" decision affirming the Appeals' Court decision on June 18, 2018, the same day as the \"Gill\" decision was announced. In the decision, the Court did not touch on the merits of the gerrymandering case, but instead found that the Appeals Court, in denying to issue an injunction on the use of the redistricting maps, was not an \"abuse of discretion\", given both the pending legal challenge of \"Gill\", and the need for \"due regard for the public interest in orderly elections\". The decision further argued that the plaintiffs had waited too long from the certification of the redistricting maps.\n\nFollowing the \"per curiam\" decision and the conclusion of \"Gill v. Whitford\", the District Court rescheduled hearings on the case on October 4, 2018. The District Court subsequently ruled on November 7, 2018, that the redistricting of the 6th District was unconstitutional, and required the state to redraw the state's redistricting maps in a more neutral manner by March 7, 2019 to be approved by the Court, or otherwise the Court would assign an independent three-member commission to oversee the new maps, such that new maps would be available prior to the 2020 election. State governor Larry Hogan, a Republican, had stated his intent to let the ruling stand and engage with the state's general assembly to start redistricting, but the attorney general Brian Frosh, a Democrat, stated his intention to appeal the District court ruling, potentially directly to the United States Supreme Court. Frosh also sought a stay of the District Court's redistricting order while the matter of appeal was under discussion.\n"}
{"id": "263768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263768", "title": "Bumper sticker", "text": "Bumper sticker\n\nA bumper sticker is an adhesive label or sticker with a message, intended to be attached to the bumper of an automobile and to be read by the occupants of other vehicles—although they are often stuck onto other objects. Most bumper stickers are about 30 cm by 8 cm (12 in by 3 in) and are often made of PVC.\n\nBumper stickers can be commercial, religious, secular, humorous, or in support of a sports team or other organization. They may promote or oppose a particular philosophical or political position. In some countries, such as the United States, bumper stickers are a popular way of showing support for a candidate for a government seat and become more common during election years. In others, such as the United Kingdom, they are rarely seen in any form.\n\nOne variety of bumper sticker is the country tag. This is typically used for cars crossing international borders, and is overseen by the United Nations as the \"Distinguishing Signs of Vehicles in International Traffic\", being authorized by the UN's Geneva Convention on Road Traffic (1949) and Vienna Convention on Road Traffic (1968). Often the country code is displayed on the license plate itself.\n\nThese have (usually in the United States) been spun off into tags indicating a country with which the driver affiliates, or more humorously to indicate things like a region (OBX), support for rabbit rescue groups (BUN), etc.\n\nPeople who opt to exhibit their individuality through these decals may take part in more acts of road rage. Colorado State University social psychologist, William Szlemko, found that aggressive driving is linked to the number of markers a person has on his/her car, regardless of the messages portrayed.\n\nEarly bumper stickers had printed directions on the back removable liner for applying them to the bumper of a car. Due to the movement of the vehicle and changing weather conditions, the sticker needed to adhere well to the bumper surface.\n\nThere are some \"easy to remove\" bumper stickers and magnetic bumper stickers. Bumper stickers can be removed with a razor blade, penetrating oil or a heat gun. Home remedies also include using common household items, such as WD-40 or paint thinner.\n\nBefore bumper stickers, advertisers used other methods of displaying their wares. In the horse-drawn carriage era, advertisers printed on horsefly nets with the name of a business. In the 1930s and 1940s, bumper signs were printed on metal or cardboard and wired to the chrome bumpers. Lester Dill, promoter of Meramec Caverns in Missouri, was an ardent adopter of the bumper sign to attract motorists to his site. Using a windowshield decal was another option. These paper strips could be wetted and placed inside a car window. However, these strips did not hold up well when placed on a bumper.\n\nVarious factors contributed to the development of the bumper sticker. Developments in material manufacturing during World War II led to the widespread use of daylight fluorescent inks, which were created by Bob Switzer and his brother Joe. These inks appeared to glow during the daytime and were useful to support various wartime activities; they were favored by early bumper sticker manufacturers after the war. In addition, the first commercially produced pressure-sensitive stickers appeared after World War II; new developments in adhesive materials led to the production of paper strips with adhesive on the back. In addition, the rise of consumer use of vinyl after World War II led to the eventual use of this material in bumper stickers.\n\nMany experts credit Forest P. Gill, a silkscreen printer from Kansas City, Kansas, USA, as the developer of the bumper sticker. Gill recognized that the self-adhesive paper used during the second world war could be used to advertise promotional products in the late 1940s and beyond.\n\nEarly widespread uses of the advertising bumper sticker were for tourist attractions, such as Marine Gardens, Florida, Seven Falls, Colorado, Meramec Caverns in Missouri, and Lookout Mountain, Tennessee. Another popular advertisement was the \"See Rock City\" sticker. In the 1940s and 1950s, visitors to the site had a sticker applied to their car, which duplicated the famous signs painted on the roofs of barns throughout the southeastern USA. Tourist attraction staff would circulate through the parking lot, applying the promotional sticker to every car.\n\nThe first documented presidential election that used adhesive bumper stickers in political campaigns was the 1952 election between Dwight D. Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson II. Bumper stickers allowed citizens to show support for a candidate while still maintaining some anonymity.\n\nBumper stickers have sparked legal issues between people and states. A man with a bumper sticker containing indecent wording was convicted. The man's conviction was reversed during Cunningham v. State (1991). The court referenced the First Amendment, stating “the provision regulating profane words on bumper stickers reaches a substantial amount of constitutionally protected speech and unconstitutionally restricts freedom of expression”\n\nConsiderable variation exists around the world as to the context and purpose of stickers.\n\nOn some vehicles, some stickers are like trophy signs of World War II aeroplanes, either of locations visited or actions completed.\n\nThey have also been extensively applied to rear windows as well, where legislative measures have not banned such use. For instance in Sweden that is the normal place to put them and the bumper sticker is actually called \"bakrutedekal\" (rear window decal).\n\nMore recently, bumper stickers have become a route for advertising and a few companies offer to match car owners to advertisers willing to pay for the ad.\n\n\"Shirat Hasticker\" (\"The Sticker Song\") by Hadag Nachash is an Israeli song composed entirely of bumper sticker slogans.\n\nVariants of the bumper sticker have developed in recent years, including vinyl decals meant to be applied to a car's rear windshield, and chrome emblems to be affixed to the body of the car itself, generally on the rear (the \"Jesus fish\" and its \"Darwin fish\" counterpart are popular examples).\n\n"}
{"id": "38775607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38775607", "title": "Bureaucratic collectivism", "text": "Bureaucratic collectivism\n\nBureaucratic collectivism is a theory of class society. It is used by some Trotskyists to describe the nature of the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin, and other similar states in Central and Eastern Europe and elsewhere (such as North Korea).\n\nA bureaucratic collectivist state owns the means of production, while the surplus or profit is distributed among an elite party bureaucracy (\"nomenklatura\"), rather than among the working class. Also, most importantly, it is the bureaucracy—not the workers, or the people in general—which controls the economy and the state. Thus, the system is not truly capitalist, but it is not socialist either. In Trotskyist theory, it is a new form of class society which exploits workers through new mechanisms. Theorists, such as Yvan Craipeau, who hold this view believe that bureaucratic collectivism does not represent progress beyond capitalism—that is, that it is no closer to being a workers' state than a capitalist state would be, and is considerably less efficient. Some even believe that certain kinds of capitalism, such as social democratic capitalism, are more progressive than a bureaucratic collectivist society.\n\nGeorge Orwell's famous novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" describes a fictional society of \"oligarchical collectivism\". Orwell was familiar with the works of James Burnham, having reviewed Burnham's \"The Managerial Revolution\" prior to writing \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". Oligarchical collectivism was a fictionalized conceptualization of bureaucratic collectivism, where Big Brother and the Inner Party form the nucleus of a hierarchical organization of society professing itself as \"English socialism\" because of its revolutionary origins, but afterwards only concerned with total domination by the Party.\n\nThe idea has also been applied to Western countries outside the Eastern Bloc, as a regime necessary to institute in order to maintain capitalism and keep it from disintegrating in the post-war era. This different form of bureaucratic collectivism is supposed to integrate various sectors of society, such as labor unions, corporations, and government organizations, in order to keep contradictions in the economy from developing into a general meltdown. This form is supposedly embodied in the welfare state, which organizes workers into a government network subsumed under capitalist relations.\n\n\"Bureaucratic collectivism\" was first used as a term to describe a theory originating in England, shortly before the First World War, about a possible future social organisation. After the war, the Russian Revolution, and the rise to power of Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union, Hugo Urbahns and Lucien Laurat both began to critique the nature of the Soviet state in a similar manner.\n\nThis theory was first taken up within Trotskyism by a small group in France around Craipeau. It was also taken up by Bruno Rizzi, who believed that the Soviet, German, and Italian bureaucracies were progressive and celebrated \"the class which has the courage to make itself master of the state\". It was with Rizzi that Leon Trotsky debated in the late 1930s. Trotsky held that the Soviet Union was a degenerated workers state and that if it did not undergo a new workers' political revolution, it could move towards a new form of society, such as bureaucratic collectivism. However, Trotsky doubted that a state of pure bureaucratic collectivism would ever be reached; he believed that, in the absence of a proletarian revolution to return the Soviet Union to socialism, a comprehensive counter-revolution would return the nation to capitalism instead.\n\nSoon after the Workers Party in the United States (later the Independent Socialist League), led by Max Shachtman, split from the Fourth International, it adopted the theory of bureaucratic collectivism and developed it. As a result, it is often associated with Left Shachtmanism and the Third Camp. Its version had much in common with Craipeau's, as developed by James Burnham and Joseph Carter, but little with Rizzi's.\n\nIn 1948, Tony Cliff argued that it is difficult to make a critique of bureaucratic collectivism because authors such as Shachtman never actually published a developed account of the theory. He asserted that the theoretical poverty of the theory of bureaucratic collectivism is not accidental and tried to show that the theory is only negative; empty, abstract, and therefore arbitrary. Cliff proposed “state capitalism” as an alternative theory that more accurately describes the nature of the Soviet Union under Stalinism.\n\nIn a 1979 \"Monthly Review\" essay, Ernest Mandel argued that the hypothesis that the Soviet bureaucracy is a new class does not correspond to a serious analysis of the real development and the real contradictions of Soviet economy and society in the last fifty years. He asserted that conflict of interest turns bureaucracy into a cancer on a society in transition between capitalism and socialism. Accordingly, bureaucratic management is not only increasingly wasteful but it also prevents the system of a planned economy based upon socialized property from operating effectively. Mandel concluded that this undeniable fact is in itself incompatible with the characterization of the bureaucracy as a ruling class and with the USSR as a new “exploitative mode of production” whose “laws of motion” have never been specified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "579196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579196", "title": "Chief process officer", "text": "Chief process officer\n\nA chief process officer (CPO) is an executive responsible for business process management at the highest level of an organization. CPOs usually report directly to the CEO or board of directors. They oversee business process activities and are responsible for defining rules, policies, and guidelines to ensure that the main objectives follow the company strategy as well as establishing control mechanisms.\n\nThe CPO defines the process management strategy and related objectives for the company; develops, documents, and introduces the process model; and monitors process compliance.\n"}
{"id": "1859341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859341", "title": "Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs", "text": "Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs\n\nThe Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs was a drug control treaty signed in 1936.\n\nHarry Anslinger representing the United States attempted to add provisions to criminalize all activities – cultivation, production, manufacture and distribution – related to the use of opium, coca (and its derivatives) and cannabis for non-medical and non-scientific purposes. Other countries objected to this proposal, so the Convention's focus remained on trafficking. The U.S. considered the final treaty to be too weak, and refused to sign it, fearing that it might have to weaken its own controls to comply with the treaty. The Convention therefore had little effect, although it was the first treaty to make certain drug offenses international crimes; all the previous treaties had dealt with regulating licit drug activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33094689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33094689", "title": "Corruption in Indonesia", "text": "Corruption in Indonesia\n\nWhile hard data on corruption is difficult to collect, corruption in Indonesia is clearly seen through public opinion, collated through surveys as well as observation of how each system runs. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 96th place out of 180 countries.\n\nThere are two key areas in the public sector in which corruption in Indonesia can be found. These are the justice and civil service sectors. Corruption within the justice sector is seen by its ineffectiveness to enforce laws, failure to uphold justice, hence undermining the rule of law. The areas of corruption within this sector include the police and the courts. In the 2008 Public Sector Integrity Survey, the Supreme Court ranked the lowest in integrity in comparison to the other public services in Indonesia. The courts were viewed to make decisions unfairly and have high unofficial costs.\n\nEvidence of corruption within the civil service comes from surveys conducted within the sector. Some surveys found out that almost half were found to have received bribes. Civil servants themselves admit to corruption.\n\nIn January 2012, it was reported that Indonesia has lost as much as Rp 2.13 trillion (US$238.6 million) to corruption in 2011. A study conducted by Indonesia Corruption Watch, a non-profit organization co-ordinated by Danang Widoyoko, said that embezzlement accounted for most of the money lost and that “government investment was the sector most prone to gratification.”\n\nCompanies are concerned about red tape and widespread extortion in the process of obtaining licences and permits, and they often faced demand for irregular fees or concessions based on personal relationships when obtaining government contracts. Companies have also reported regular demand for cash payments and expectations for gifts and special treatments by Indonesian officials.\n\nCorruption is an important development challenge that poses economic and social costs in Indonesia. Interference in public laws and policies for the sake of personal or private gain has weakened the competitiveness of Indonesia.\nAbout one-quarter of ministries suffer from budgetary diversions in Indonesia. Households spent approximately 1% while enterprises spent at least 5% of monthly company revenue on unofficial payments. Social costs due to corruption in Indonesia include the weakening of government institutions and the rule of law. Increases in crime due to smuggling and extortion involve the institutions that are supposed to be protecting citizens. The people who suffer most are the poor as they are pressured to finance payments through their already tight budgets and the effectiveness of social services are less accessible indirectly. These concerns were voiced by the poor urban communities of Indonesia themselves in a joint World Bank-Partnership for Governance Reform research project, entitled “Corruption and the Poor”.\n\nAnti-corruption efforts began in Indonesia in the 1950s. There have been some efforts to battle corruption with the creation of the ombudsman and the Assets Auditing Commission (KPKPN). It has been an important agenda and part of Indonesia's official reform program since May 1998. However, the efforts made are questionable as there has been limited success to reduce corruption. Some obstacles that impeded the improvement of corruption included political and economic constraints, and the complex nature of the corruption itself. Following strong criticism of corruption at the beginning of the New Order regime in the late 1960s a \"Commission of Four\" was appointed by president Suharto in 1970. The report of the commission noted that corruption was \"rampant\" but none of the cases it said were in need of urgent action were followed up. Laws were passed in 1999 giving the Police and prosecution service the authority to investigate corruption cases.\n\nThese efforts have taken the shape of ordering corruption convicts to pay back all the money they have stolen. On 6 March 2012, the Jakarta Corruption Court sentenced Ridwan Sanjaya, an official from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, to six years in prison for rigging a tender bid for a home solar energy system project in 2009 worth IDR526 billion (US$57.86 million). This is an abnormal number in equation to other southeastern-Asian countries. The government isn't doing much for this case and the Indonesians are left to handle this on their own.\n\nRidwan was found guilty of accepting IDR 14.6 billion in kickbacks, resulting in IDR131 billion in state losses. The Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) stated that it will use Ridwan’s verdict as material to develop the investigation on the graft scandal involving the Solar Home System project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47957530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47957530", "title": "Democratic Alignment (2015)", "text": "Democratic Alignment (2015)\n\nThe Democratic Alignment (, DISI), also translated as Democratic Coalition, is a political alliance in Greece.\n\nThe alliance was launched on 30 August 2015, prior to the September snap election formed by the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) and the Democratic Left (DIMAR). joined the Democratic Alignment as well.\n\n\nIn the September 2015 legislative election on 20 September 2015, the alliance received 6.3% of the vote, providing the mandate for 17 seats in the Hellenic Parliament.\n\nIn January 2017 Movement of Democratic Socialists joined Democratic Alignment.\n\nIn 13 January 2017 MPs Leonidas Grigorakos and Ilchan Achmet joined the Democratic Alignment.\n\nThe name \"Democratic Alignment\" has been previously used by a 1950/51 centre-left coalition. It was proposed in 2014 by Evangelos Venizelos as a new name for PASOK, but was rejected by former prime minister George Papandreou.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44417797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44417797", "title": "Dirtbox (cell phone)", "text": "Dirtbox (cell phone)\n\nA dirtbox (or DRT box) is a cell site simulator, or a phone device mimicking a cell phone tower. The device is designed to create a signal strong enough within a short range that it forces dormant mobile phones to automatically switch over to it. It is used by the United States Marshals Service, mounted on aircraft all over the U.S., to detect and locate cell phones and thus collect information, and can be used to jam phones. The name stems from the company that originally developed it, Digital Receiver Technology, Inc., abbreviated DRT, owned by the Boeing company. Boeing describes the device as a hybrid of \"jamming, managed access and detection\". A similar device with a more limited range that has been widely used by United States federal entities, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), is the controversial StingRay phone tracker.\n\nIt is not known when Digital Receiver Technology, Inc. (DRT) first manufactured the dirtbox. DRT does not publicly advertise the dirtbox, stating, \"Due to the sensitive nature of our work, we are unable to publicly advertise many of our products\" on its Web site. \"The Wall Street Journal\" wrote that the program by the U.S. Marshals Service \"fully matured by 2007\". Boeing bought DRT in 2008.\n\nSimilar devices from the Harris Corporation, like the Stingray phone tracker, have been sold around the same time. Since 2008, their airborne mounting kit for cell phone surveillance has been said to cost $9,000.\n\nOn June 11, 2010, the Boeing Company had asked the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to advise the United States Congress that the \"... Communications Act of 1934 be modified to allow prison officials and state and local law enforcement to use appropriate cell phone management\". It suggested that special weapons and tactics (SWAT) teams and other paramilitary tactical units could control wireless communications in a building during a raid.\n\nThe Chicago Police Department bought dirt boxes to eavesdrop on demonstrators during the 2012 NATO summit and used them in 2014 Black Lives Matter demonstrations, and in 2015 it became known that the Los Angeles Police Department had purchased them too.\n\nThe device was described as being in size in the first mass media publication that shed light on it.\n\nIt acts as a fake cell phone tower, and utilizes IMSI-catcher technology, which stands for \"international mobile subscriber identity\". Phone networks use this system to identify an individual subscriber. The device emits a pilot signal made to appear stronger than that from the service provider cell tower, which forces all phones within its range to broadcast their IMSI number and electronic serial number (ESN). Encryption does not prevent this process. Furthermore, the devices can retrieve the encryption session keys for a cellphone in less than a second with success rates of 50 to 75% (in real world conditions)\".\n\nBy mounting the device on a plane, it can locate a phone within 10 feet, while another source claims that by triangulating flights, a dirtbox can identify a phone accurately up to two feet.\n\nThe dirtbox is a hybrid of detection, managed access and jamming technologies: According to \"people with knowledge of the program\", in \"The Wall Street Journal\" article, the device can determine which phones belong to suspects and which belong to non-suspects, and that \"cell phones not of interest, such as those belonging to prison personnel or commercial users in the area, are returned to their local network.\" The dirtbox can also selectively jam for brief intervals, that is, interrupt or disable calls on certain phones, preventing contraband use in prison. It can also retrieve data from a phone. The technology is \"unobtrusive to legitimate wireless communications\", as described by Boeing, and bypasses phone companies in its operations.\n\n, the U.S. Marshals Service Technical Operations Group has been using the device fixed on manned airplanes to track fugitives, but it can deploy it on \"targets requested by other parts of the Justice Program\". It operates from at least five U.S. airports \"covering most of the U.S. population\". It is unclear whether the U.S. Marshals Service is requesting court orders. \nSpecifically, the Marshals Service has used dirtboxes in the Mexican Drug War for tracking fugitives in coordination with Mexico's Naval Infantry Force and flights in Guatemala.\n\nDRT boxes are used by the United States Special Operations Command, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the FBI and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The U.S. Navy bought dirtboxes to mount on drones at Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, its research and development facility in Southern California according to procurement documents. The Pentagon Washington Headquarters Services bought them in 2011.\n\nBased on references to DRTBox in NSA's Boundless informant screenshots leaked by Edward Snowden, dirtbox is probably used by the NSA. Le Monde wrote in 2013, that \"thanks to DRTBOX, 62.5 million phone data were collected in France\".\nThe United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group Group One bought a Digital Receiver Technology 1301B System on April 2, 2007 costing over $25,000 per the United States government procurement web site.\n\nThe National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) has known of dirtbox since at least 2010. In 2014, the United States Department of Justice refused to confirm or deny that the program exists, but an official said \"it would be 'utterly false' to conflate the law-enforcement program with the collection of bulk telephone records by the National Security Agency\". The Federal Communications Commission, responsible for licensing and regulating cell-service providers, was not aware of this activity prior to \"The Wall Street Journal\"s exposé.\n\nIn January 2015 the US Senate Judiciary Committee asked the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security which law enforcement agencies use the DRTbox, and the legal process/what policies existed to protect the privacy interests of those whose information is collected.\n\nDirtbox use has been criticized as violating the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. including by U.S. Rep. Alan Grayson, D-Florida.\n\nBrian Owsley, a law professor at Indiana Institute of Technology and former United States magistrate said \"I think the government would need to obtain a search warrant based on probable cause consistent with the Fourth Amendment\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" quoted Michael German at New York University Law School, a former FBI agent, as saying: \"The overriding problem is the excessive secrecy that hides the government’s ever-expanding surveillance programs from public accountability.\"\n\nSenator Edward Markey (Democrat, Massachusetts) and former Senator Al Franken (Democrat, Minnesota) have warned that Americans' privacy rights must be assured.\n\n"}
{"id": "31671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31671", "title": "Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution", "text": "Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution\n\nThe Eighteenth Amendment (Amendment XVIII) of the United States Constitution effectively established the prohibition of intoxicating liquors in the United States by declaring the production, transport, and sale of intoxicating liquors (though not the consumption or private possession) illegal. It was ratified on January 16, 1919. The separate Volstead Act set down methods for enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment, and defined which \"intoxicating liquors\" were prohibited, and which were excluded from prohibition (e.g., for medical and religious purposes). The Amendment was the first to set a time delay before it would take effect following ratification, and the first to set a time limit for its ratification by the states. The Volstead Act set the starting date for nationwide prohibition for January 17, 1920, which was the earliest day allowed by the Eighteenth Amendment.\n\nThe Amendment was in effect for the following 13 years. It was repealed in 1933 by ratification of the Twenty-First Amendment. The Twenty-first Amendment was ratified on December 5, 1933. It is unique among the 27 amendments of the U.S. Constitution for being the only one to repeal a prior amendment and to have been ratified by state ratifying conventions.\n\nThe Eighteenth Amendment was the result of decades of effort by the temperance movement in the United States and at the time was generally considered a progressive amendment. Starting in 1906, the Anti-Saloon League (ASL) began leading a campaign to ban the sale of alcohol on a state level. They led speeches, advertisements, and public demonstrations, claiming that banning the sale of alcohol would get rid of poverty and social issues, such as immoral behavior and violence. It would also inspire new forms of sociability between men and women and they believed that families would be happier, fewer industrial mistakes would be made and overall, the world would be a better place. \nOther groups such as the Women's Christian Temperance Union began as well trying to ban the sale, manufacturing, and distribution of alcoholic beverages. A well-known reformer during this time period was Carrie Amelia Moore Nation, whose violent actions (such as vandalizing saloon property) made her a household name across America. \nMany state legislatures had already enacted statewide prohibition prior to the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment but did not ban the consumption of alcohol in most households. It took some states longer than others to ratify this amendment, especially northern states, including New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts. They violated the law by still allowing some wines and beers to be sold. By 1916, 23 of 48 states had already passed laws against saloons, some even banning the manufacture of alcohol in the first place.\n\nThe Temperance Movement was dedicated to the complete abstinence of alcohol from public life. The movement began in the early 1800s within Christian churches, and was very religiously motivated. The central areas the group was founded out of were in the Saratoga area of New York, as well as in Massachusetts. Churches were also highly influential in gaining new members and support, garnering 6,000 local societies in several different states.\n\nA group that was inspired by the movement was the Anti-Saloon league, who at the turn of the 20th century began heavily lobbying for prohibition in the United States. The group was founded in 1893 in the state of Ohio, gaining massive support from Evangelical Protestants, to becoming a national organization in 1895. The group was successful in helping implement prohibition, through heavy lobbying and having a vast influence. The group following repeal of prohibition fell out of power and in 1950 merged with other groups forming the National Temperance League.\n\nOn August 1, 1917, the Senate passed a resolution containing the language of the amendment to be presented to the states for ratification. The vote was 65 to 20, with the Democrats voting 36 in favor and 12 in opposition; and the Republicans voting 29 in favor and 8 in opposition. The House of Representatives passed a revised resolution on December 17, 1917. This was the first amendment to impose a date by which it had to be ratified or else the amendment would be discarded.\n\nIn the House, the vote was 282 to 128, with the Democrats voting 141 in favor and 64 in opposition; and the Republicans voting 137 in favor and 62 in opposition. Four Independents in the House voted in favor and two Independents cast votes against the amendment. It was officially proposed by the Congress to the states when the Senate passed the resolution, by a vote of 47 to 8, the next day, December 18.\n\nThe amendment and its enabling legislation did not ban the consumption of alcohol, but made it difficult to obtain alcoholic beverages legally, as it prohibited the sale, manufacture and distribution of them in U.S. territory. Any one who got caught selling, manufacturing or distributing alcoholic beverages would be arrested. \nBecause prohibition was already implemented by many states, it was quickly ratified into a law. The ratification of the Amendment was completed on January 16, 1919, when Nebraska became the 36th of the 48 states then in the Union to ratify it. On January 29, acting Secretary of State Frank L. Polk certified the ratification.\n\nThe following states ratified the amendment:\nThe following states rejected the amendment:\nTo define the language used in the Amendment, Congress enacted enabling legislation called the National Prohibition Act, better known as the Volstead Act, on October 28, 1919. President Woodrow Wilson vetoed that bill, but the House of Representatives immediately voted to override the veto and the Senate voted similarly the next day. The Volstead Act set the starting date for nationwide prohibition for January 17, 1920, which was the earliest date allowed by the 18th amendment.\n\nThe act was conceived and introduced by Wayne Wheeler who was a leader of the Anti-Saloon League, a group which found alcohol responsible for almost all of society's problems, and were also responsible for many campaigns against the sale of alcohol. The law was also heavily supported by Judiciary Chairman at the time, Andrew Volstead from Minnesota and was named in his honor. The act in its written form laid the ground work of prohibition, defining the procedures for banning the distribution of alcohol including their production and distribution.\n\nVolstead had once before introduced an early version of the law to congress. It was first brought to the floor on May 27, 1919 meeting heavy resistance from Democrat senators, introducing instead what was called the \"wet law\", which was an attempt to end the wartime prohibition laws put into affect much earlier. The debate of prohibition would continue to be fueled even longer in congress, for that entire the House would be divided among what would be known as the \"bone-drys and the \"wets\".\n\nWith Republicans in the majority of the House of Representatives, the act was passed July 22, 1919 with 287 in favor and 100 opposed. Unfortunately the act was in large part a failure, being unable to prevent mass distribution of alcoholic beverages and also inadvertently gave way to massive increase in organized crime. The act would go on to be the standard for enforcing prohibition, until the passing of the 21st amendment in 1933 effectively repealed it.\n\nSource:\n\nPositives:\n\nNegatives:\n\nThe proposed amendment was the first to contain a provision setting a deadline for its ratification. That clause of the amendment was challenged, with the case reaching the US Supreme Court. It upheld the constitutionality of such a deadline in \"Dillon v. Gloss\" (1921). The Supreme Court also upheld the ratification by the Ohio legislature in \"Hawke v. Smith\" (1920), despite a petition requiring that the matter go to ballot.\n\nThis was not the only controversy around the amendment. The phrase \"intoxicating liquor\" would not logically have included beer and wine (as they are not distilled), and their inclusion in the prohibition came as a surprise to the general public, as well as wine and beer makers. This controversy caused many Northern states to not abide by which caused some problems. The brewers were probably not the only Americans to be surprised at the severity of the regime thus created. Voters who considered their own drinking habits blameless, but who supported prohibition to discipline others, also received a rude shock. That shock came with the realization that federal prohibition went much farther in the direction of banning personal consumption than all local prohibition ordinances and many state prohibition statutes. National Prohibition turned out to be quite a different beast than its local and state cousins.\n\nUnder Prohibition, the illegal manufacture and sale of liquor–known as \"bootlegging\"–occurred on a large scale across the United States. In urban areas, where the majority of the population opposed Prohibition, enforcement was generally much weaker than in rural areas and smaller towns. Perhaps the most dramatic consequence of Prohibition was the effect it had on organized crime in the United States: as the production and sale of alcohol went further underground, it began to be controlled by the Mafia and other gangs, who transformed themselves into sophisticated criminal enterprises that reaped huge profits from the illicit liquor trade.\n\nWhen it came to its booming bootleg business, the Mafia became skilled at bribing police and politicians to look the other way. Chicago's Al Capone emerged as the most notorious example of this phenomenon, earning an estimated $60 million annually from the bootlegging and speakeasy operations he controlled. In addition to bootlegging, gambling and prostitution reached new heights during the 1920s as well. A growing number of Americans came to blame Prohibition for this widespread moral decay and disorder–despite the fact that the legislation had intended to do the opposite–and to condemn it as a dangerous infringement on the freedom of the individual.\n\nIn his important study both of the Eighteenth Amendment and its repeal, Daniel Okrent identifies the powerful political coalition that worked successfully in the two decades leading to the ratification of the Eighteenth Amendment:\n\nFive distinct, if occasionally overlapping, components made up this unspoken coalition: racists, progressives, suffragists, populists (whose ranks included a small socialist auxiliary), and nativists. Adherents of each group may have been opposed to alcohol for its own sake, but used the Prohibition impulse to advance ideologies and causes that had little to do with it.\n\nIf public sentiment had turned against Prohibition by the late 1920s, the Great Depression only hastened its demise, as some argued that the ban on alcohol denied jobs to the unemployed and much-needed revenue to the government. The efforts of the nonpartisan group Americans Against Prohibition Association (AAPA) added to public disillusionment. In 1932, the platform of Democratic presidential candidate Franklin D. Roosevelt included a plank for repealing the 18th Amendment, and his victory that November marked a certain end to Prohibition.\n\nIn February 1933, Congress adopted a resolution proposing the Twenty-first Amendment, which repealed the 18th Amendment and modified the Volstead Act to permit the sale of beer. The resolution required state conventions, rather than the state legislatures, to approve the amendment, effectively reducing the process to a one-state, one-vote referendum rather than a popular vote contest. That December, Utah became the 36th state to ratify the amendment, achieving the necessary majority for repeal. A few states continued statewide prohibition after 1933, but by 1966 all of them had abandoned it. Since then, liquor control in the United States has largely been determined at the local level.\n\nJust after the Eighteenth Amendment's adoption, there was a significant reduction in alcohol consumption among the general public and particularly among low-income groups. There were fewer hospitalizations for alcoholism and likewise fewer liver-related medical problems. However, consumption soon climbed as underworld entrepreneurs began producing \"rotgut\" alcohol which was full of dangerous diseases. With the rise of home distilled alcohol, careless distilling led to the deaths of many citizens. During the ban upwards of 10,000 deaths can be attributed to wood alcohol (methanol) poisoning. Ultimately, during prohibition use and abuse of alcohol ended up higher than before it started. The greatest unintended consequence of Prohibition however, was the plainest to see. For over a decade, the law that was meant to foster temperance instead fostered intemperance and excess. The solution the United States had devised to address the problem of alcohol abuse had instead made the problem even worse. The statistics of the period are notoriously unreliable, but it is very clear that in many parts of the United States more people were drinking, and people were drinking more.\n\nThough there were significant increases in crimes involved in the production and distribution of illegal alcohol, there was an initial reduction in overall crime, mainly in types of crimes associated with the effects of alcohol consumption such as public drunkenness. Those who continued to use alcohol, tended to turn to organized criminal syndicates. Law enforcement wasn't strong enough to stop all liquor traffic; however, they used a \"sting\" operations--\"Prohibition agent Elliot Ness famously used wiretapping to discern secret locations of breweries.\" The prisons became crowded which led to fewer arrests for the distribution of alcohol, as well as those arrested being charged with small fines rather than prison time. The murder rate fell for two years, but then rose to record highs because this market became extremely attractive to criminal organizations, a trend that reversed the very year prohibition ended. Overall, crime rose 24%, including increases in assault and battery, theft, and burglary.\n\nAnti-prohibition groups arose and worked to have the amendment repealed, once it became apparent that Prohibition was an unprecedented catastrophe. It is alleged that the Eighteenth Amendment failed because of its sudden, strict enforcement. It didn't allow the people to have a say or let them gradually ease into the complete ban of alcoholic beverages. Instead, the people rebelled and the introduction of speakeasies and \"flappers\" came about.\n\nThe Twenty-first Amendment repealed the Eighteenth Amendment on December 5, 1933.\n\nFollowing ratification in 1919 the effects of the amendment were long lasting, leading to increases in crime in many large cities in the United States, like Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles . Along with this came many separate forms of illegal alcohol distribution. Examples of this include speakeasies and bootlegging, as well as illegal distilling operations.\n\nBootlegging got its start in towns bordering Mexico and Canada, as well as in areas with several ports and harbors, a favorite distribution area for bootleggers being Atlantic City, New Jersey. The alcohol was often supplied from various foreign distributors, like Cuba and the Bahamas, or even Newfoundland and islands under rule by the French.\n\nThe government in response employed the Coast Guard to search and detain any ships transporting alcohol into the ports, but with this came several complications such as disputes over where jurisdiction lay on the water. This was what made Atlantic City such a hot spot for smuggling operations, because of a shipping point nearly three miles off shore that U.S. officials could not investigate, further complicating enforcement of the amendment. What made matters even worse for the Coast Guard was that they were not well equipped enough to chase down bootlegging vessels. The Coast Guard however, was able to respond to these issues, and began searching vessels out at sea, instead of when they made port, and upgraded their own vehicles allowing for more efficient and consistent arrests.\n\nBut even with the advancements in enforcing the amendment, there were still complications that plagued the government's efforts. One issue came in the form of forged prescriptions for alcoholic beverages. Many forms of alcohol were being sold over the counter at the time, under the guise of being for medical purposes. But in truth, these beverages had falsified the evidence that they were medically fit to be sold to consumers.\n\nBootlegging itself was the leading factor that developed the organized crime-rings in big cities, given that controlling and distributing liquor was a very difficult task to achieve. From that arose many profitable gangs that would control every aspect of the distribution process, whether it be concealed brewing and storage, or even operating a speakeasy, or selling in restaurants and nightclubs run by a specific syndicate. With organized crime becoming a rising problem in the United States, control of specific territories was a key objective among gangs, leading to many violent confrontations with murder rates and burglaries heavily increasing between 1920 and 1933. Bootlegging was also found to be a gateway crime for many gangs, who would then expand operations into crimes such as prostitution, gambling rackets, narcotics, loan-sharking, extortion and labor rackets, thus causing problems to persist long after the amendment was repealed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43150970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43150970", "title": "Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy", "text": "Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy\n\nEurope of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD or EFD) is a populist Eurosceptic political group in the European Parliament. The EFDD group is a continuation for the Eighth European Parliament of the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) group that existed during the Seventh European Parliament, with significant changes to group membership.\n\nIn 2017, it was one of the seven political groups of the parliament. This group is opposed to European integration. 24 out of its 47 MEPs were from the United Kingdom, representing the UK Independence Party. In 2017, the group had two co-presidents: UKIP's Nigel Farage, and David Borrelli from the Five Star Movement. However, David Borrelli joined the Non-Attached group in the European Parliament in February 2018, leaving EFDD solely chaired by Nigel Farage.\n\nFollowing the 2014 European parliament elections, the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) group faced difficulties reforming for the 8th European Parliament, with various member parties and MEPs of the previous term's EFD either defecting to different parliamentary groups or failing to be re-elected.\n\nOn 4 June 2014, the Danish People's Party (Denmark) and Finns Party (Finland) were admitted into the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) and therefore were no longer attached to the EFD.\n\nOn 12 June 2014, the Five Star Movement (M5S) of Italy, having been rejected by the Greens/EFA and Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe groups, offered its activists a limited-choice online referendum to choose a European Parliament group for the party, in which 78% of participating activists voted for the EFD.\n\nOn 16 June 2014, Dutch MEP Bas Belder of the Reformed Political Party (SGP) moved from the EFD to the ECR group.\n\nThe EFD group was reformed on 18 June 2014 with MEPs from existing member parties: the UK Independence Party (United Kingdom) and the Order and Justice (Lithuania), in addition to new affiliates: the Five Star Movement, the Sweden Democrats (Sweden), the Party of Free Citizens (Czech Republic), the Latvian Farmers Union (Latvia) and a French independent MEP, formerly of the National Front.\n\nOn 24 June 2014, the EFD group name was revised to Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy (EFDD), and David Borrelli of the Five Star Movement was chosen as the incoming group's new co-president.\n\nOn 16 October 2014, it was announced that Iveta Grigule MEP from the Latvian Farmers Union had defected from EFDD to,the ALDE group, resulting in the collapse of the group because it was no longer composed of representatives from at least a quarter of the EU's Member States. The criterion was restored on 20 October, with one Polish MEP, Robert Iwaszkiewicz from Congress of the New Right (KNP), joining the group, although the other party's MEPs remained Non-Inscrits. On 24 January 2015, Amjad Bashir was suspended from UKIP pending a party investigation into financial fraud: Bashir defected to the Conservative Party within an hour of his suspension. On 20 March 2015, Janice Atkinson was suspended from UKIP and later expelled on 23 March for alleged financial fraud. Atkinson joined the Europe of Nations and Freedom (ENF) group at its launch on 15 June 2015.\n\nOn 8 April 2016, Alternative for Germany (AfD) MEP Beatrix von Storch left the ECR group to join EFDD.\n\nOn 24 October 2016, Steven Woolfe left the group to sit as Non-Inscrits, followed by Diane James on 20 November 2016.\n\nOn 9 January 2017, the Five Star Movement voted in an online referendum to leave EFDD in order to join the ALDE group; however, they were rejected by ALDE later the same day. In the aftermath, two MEPs left the group, with Marco Affronte defected to the Greens/EFA group, and Marco Zanni to the ENL group. Other Five Star Movement MEPs pulled out of switching parliamentary group after threatened by party leader Beppe Grillo with a fine of €250,000.\n\nIn October 2017, with change in the French Front National, Florian Philippot, president of the \"Patriotes\", Sophie Montel and Mireille d'Ornano join the Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy group.\n\nOn 13 February 2018, former group co-president David Borrelli left the M5S and moved to Non-Inscrits.\n\nOn 3 July 2018, the 2 Sweden Democrats MEPs moved to European Conservatives and Reformists.\n\nEurope of Freedom and Direct Democracy has 45 elected members as follows:\n\n\nDuring the European Parliament debate about Catalan independence referendum in 2017, the EFDD, by the voice of Ray Finch considered that European Union should have made some intervention against Spain to protect Catalan independence. He considered that this referendum led to human rights abuses. According to him, people should have the right to vote even when the referendum is illegal.\n\n"}
{"id": "34809570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34809570", "title": "Freedom, Inc.", "text": "Freedom, Inc.\n\nFreedom, Inc. or Freedom, Incorporated of Kansas City Missouri is a political organization founded in 1961 by five African-American political activists, and which was crucial to desegregation of Kansas City Missouri public facilities, the election of many black Missouri State Representatives since 1963, the \"strong\" candidacy of Bruce R. Watkins for Mayor of Kansas City in 1978-79, the 1982 election of Alan Wheat, the first black Congressman to represent a majority-white district in the Greater Kansas City Missouri Metropolitan Area, the 1991 election of Emmanuel Cleaver as the first black mayor of Kansas City, and—according to new information reported on KKFI on February 18, 2012 during an on-air interview of filmmaker Emiel Cleaver, possibly a blueprint responsible for elections of \"First Black Mayors\" in New Orleans, Louisiana and other major U.S. cities. The organization was reportedly the brainchild of Leon M. Jordan and Bruce R. Watkins, who were elected its first chairman and co-chairman, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "21401843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21401843", "title": "Freedom of speech", "text": "Freedom of speech\n\nFreedom of speech is a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or a community to articulate their opinions and ideas without fear of retaliation, censorship, or legal sanction. The term \"freedom of expression\" is sometimes used synonymously but includes any act of seeking, receiving, and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.\n\nFreedom of expression is recognized as a human right under article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 19 of the UDHR states that \"everyone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference\" and \"everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice\". The version of Article 19 in the ICCPR later amends this by stating that the exercise of these rights carries \"special duties and responsibilities\" and may \"therefore be subject to certain restrictions\" when necessary \"[f]or respect of the rights or reputation of others\" or \"[f]or the protection of national security or of public order (order public), or of public health or morals\".\n\nFreedom of speech and expression, therefore, may not be recognized as being absolute, and common limitations to freedom of speech relate to libel, slander, obscenity, pornography, sedition, incitement, fighting words, classified information, copyright violation, trade secrets, food labeling, non-disclosure agreements, the right to privacy, the right to be forgotten, public security, and perjury. Justifications for such include the harm principle, proposed by John Stuart Mill in \"On Liberty\", which suggests that: \"the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others.\"\n\nThe idea of the \"offense principle\" is also used in the justification of speech limitations, describing the restriction on forms of expression deemed offensive to society, considering factors such as extent, duration, motives of the speaker, and ease with which it could be avoided. With the evolution of the digital age, application of the freedom of speech becomes more controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise, for example the Golden Shield Project, an initiative by Chinese government's Ministry of Public Security that filters potentially unfavorable data from foreign countries.\n\nFreedom of speech and expression has a long history that predates modern international human rights instruments. It is thought that ancient Athenian democratic principle of free speech may have emerged in the late 6th or early 5th century BC. The values of the Roman Republic included freedom of speech and freedom of religion.\n\nConcepts of freedom of speech can be found in early human rights documents. England's Bill of Rights 1689 legally established the constitutional right of 'freedom of speech in Parliament' which is still in effect. The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, adopted during the French Revolution in 1789, specifically affirmed freedom of speech as an inalienable right. The Declaration provides for freedom of expression in Article 11, which states that:\n\nThe free communication of ideas and opinions is one of the most precious of the rights of man. Every citizen may, accordingly, speak, write, and print with freedom, but shall be responsible for such abuses of this freedom as shall be defined by law.\n\nArticle 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948, states that: Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.\n\nToday, freedom of speech, or the freedom of expression, is recognized in international and regional human rights law. The right is enshrined in Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 13 of the American Convention on Human Rights and Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights. Based on John Milton's arguments, freedom of speech is understood as a multi-faceted right that includes not only the right to express, or disseminate, information and ideas, but three further distinct aspects:\n\nInternational, regional and national standards also recognize that freedom of speech, as the freedom of expression, includes any medium, be it orally, in written, in print, through the Internet or through art forms. This means that the protection of freedom of speech as a right includes not only the content, but also the means of expression.\n\nThe right to freedom of speech and expression is closely related to other rights, and may be limited when conflicting with other rights (see limitations on freedom of speech). The right to freedom of expression is also related to the right to a fair trial and court proceeding which may limit access to the search for information, or determine the opportunity and means in which freedom of expression is manifested within court proceedings. As a general principle freedom of expression may not limit the right to privacy, as well as the honor and reputation of others. However greater latitude is given when criticism of public figures is involved.\n\nThe right to freedom of expression is particularly important for media, which plays a special role as the bearer of the general right to freedom of expression for all. However, freedom of the press does not necessarily enable freedom of speech. Judith Lichtenberg has outlined conditions in which freedom of the press may constrain freedom of speech, for example where the media suppresses information or stifles the diversity of voices inherent in freedom of speech. Lichtenberg argues that freedom of the press is simply a form of property right summed up by the principle \"no money, no voice\".\n\nFreedom of speech is understood to be fundamental in a democracy. The norms on limiting freedom of expression mean that public debate may not be completely suppressed even in times of emergency. One of the most notable proponents of the link between freedom of speech and democracy is Alexander Meiklejohn. He has argued that the concept of democracy is that of self-government by the people. For such a system to work, an informed electorate is necessary. In order to be appropriately knowledgeable, there must be no constraints on the free flow of information and ideas. According to Meiklejohn, democracy will not be true to its essential ideal if those in power are able to manipulate the electorate by withholding information and stifling criticism. Meiklejohn acknowledges that the desire to manipulate opinion can stem from the motive of seeking to benefit society. However, he argues, choosing manipulation negates, in its means, the democratic ideal.\n\nEric Barendt has called this defense of free speech on the grounds of democracy \"probably the most attractive and certainly the most fashionable free speech theory in modern Western democracies\". Thomas I. Emerson expanded on this defense when he argued that freedom of speech helps to provide a balance between stability and change. Freedom of speech acts as a \"safety valve\" to let off steam when people might otherwise be bent on revolution. He argues that \"The principle of open discussion is a method of achieving a more adaptable and at the same time more stable community, of maintaining the precarious balance between healthy cleavage and necessary consensus.\" Emerson furthermore maintains that \"Opposition serves a vital social function in offsetting or ameliorating (the) normal process of bureaucratic decay.\"\n\nResearch undertaken by the Worldwide Governance Indicators project at the World Bank, indicates that freedom of speech, and the process of accountability that follows it, have a significant impact in the quality of governance of a country. \"Voice and Accountability\" within a country, defined as \"the extent to which a country's citizens are able to participate in selecting their government, as well as freedom of expression, freedom of association, and free media\" is one of the six dimensions of governance that the Worldwide Governance Indicators measure for more than 200 countries. Against this backdrop it is important that development agencies create grounds for effective support for a free press in developing countries.\n\nRichard Moon has developed the argument that the value of freedom of speech and freedom of expression lies with social interactions. Moon writes that \"by communicating an individual forms relationships and associations with others – family, friends, co-workers, church congregation, and countrymen. By entering into discussion with others an individual participates in the development of knowledge and in the direction of the community.\"\n\nLegal systems sometimes recognize certain limits on the freedom of speech, particularly when freedom of speech conflicts with other rights and freedoms, such as in the cases of libel, slander, pornography, obscenity, fighting words, and intellectual property. In Europe, blasphemy is a limitation to free speech. Justifications for limitations to freedom of speech often reference the \"harm principle\" or the \"offense principle\". Limitations to freedom of speech may occur through legal sanction or social disapprobation, or both. Certain public institutions may also enact policies restricting the freedom of speech, for example speech codes at state schools.\n\nIn \"On Liberty\" (1859), John Stuart Mill argued that \"...there ought to exist the fullest liberty of professing and discussing, as a matter of ethical conviction, any doctrine, however immoral it may be considered.\" Mill argues that the fullest liberty of expression is required to push arguments to their logical limits, rather than the limits of social embarrassment. However, Mill also introduced what is known as the harm principle, in placing the following limitation on free expression: \"the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others.\"\n\nIn 1985, Joel Feinberg introduced what is known as the \"offense principle\", arguing that Mill's harm principle does not provide sufficient protection against the wrongful behaviors of others. Feinberg wrote \"It is always a good reason in support of a proposed criminal prohibition that it would probably be an effective way of preventing serious offense (as opposed to injury or harm) to persons other than the actor, and that it is probably a necessary means to that end.\" Hence Feinberg argues that the harm principle sets the bar too high and that some forms of expression can be legitimately prohibited by law because they are very offensive. But, as offending someone is less serious than harming someone, the penalties imposed should be higher for causing harm. In contrast, Mill does not support legal penalties unless they are based on the harm principle. Because the degree to which people may take offense varies, or may be the result of unjustified prejudice, Feinberg suggests that a number of factors need to be taken into account when applying the offense principle, including: the extent, duration and social value of the speech, the ease with which it can be avoided, the motives of the speaker, the number of people offended, the intensity of the offense, and the general interest of the community at large.\n\nAlong similar lines as Mill, Jasper Doomen argued that harm should be defined from the point of view of the individual citizen, not limiting harm to physical harm since nonphysical harm may also be involved; Feinberg's distinction between harm and offense is criticized as largely trivial.\n\nIn 1999, Bernard Harcourt wrote of the collapse of the harm principle: \"Today the debate is characterized by a cacophony of competing harm arguments without any way to resolve them. There is no longer an argument within the structure of the debate to resolve the competing claims of harm. The original harm principle was never equipped to determine the relative importance of harms.\"\n\nInterpretations of both the harm and offense limitations to freedom of speech are culturally and politically relative. For instance, in Russia, the harm and offense principles have been used to justify the Russian LGBT propaganda law restricting speech (and action) in relation to LGBT issues. A number of European countries that take pride in freedom of speech nevertheless outlaw speech that might be interpreted as Holocaust denial. These include Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and Switzerland.\n\nIn the U.S., the standing landmark opinion on political speech is \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" (1969), expressly overruling \"Whitney v. California\". In \"Brandenburg\", the US Supreme Court referred to the right even to speak openly of violent action and revolution in broad terms: The opinion in \"Brandenburg\" discarded the previous test of \"clear and present danger\" and made the right to freedom of (political) speech's protections in the United States almost absolute. Hate speech is also protected by the First Amendment in the United States, as decided in \"R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul\", (1992) in which the Supreme Court ruled that hate speech is permissible, except in the case of imminent violence. See the First Amendment to the United States Constitution for more detailed information on this decision and its historical background.\n\nJo Glanville, editor of the \"Index on Censorship\", states that \"the Internet has been a revolution for censorship as much as for free speech\". International, national and regional standards recognise that freedom of speech, as one form of freedom of expression, applies to any medium, including the Internet. The Communications Decency Act (CDA) of 1996 was the first major attempt by the United States Congress to regulate pornographic material on the Internet. In 1997, in the landmark cyberlaw case of \"Reno v. ACLU\", the US Supreme Court partially overturned the law. Judge Stewart R. Dalzell, one of the three federal judges who in June 1996 declared parts of the CDA unconstitutional, in his opinion stated the following:\n\nThe Internet is a far more speech-enhancing medium than print, the village green, or the mails. Because it would necessarily affect the Internet itself, the CDA would necessarily reduce the speech available for adults on the medium. This is a constitutionally intolerable result. Some of the dialogue on the Internet surely tests the limits of conventional discourse. Speech on the Internet can be unfiltered, unpolished, and unconventional, even emotionally charged, sexually explicit, and vulgar – in a word, \"indecent\" in many communities. But we should expect such speech to occur in a medium in which citizens from all walks of life have a voice. We should also protect the autonomy that such a medium confers to ordinary people as well as media magnates.[...] My analysis does not deprive the Government of all means of protecting children from the dangers of Internet communication. The Government can continue to protect children from pornography on the Internet through vigorous enforcement of existing laws criminalizing obscenity and child pornography. [...] As we learned at the hearing, there is also a compelling need for public educations about the benefits and dangers of this new medium, and the Government can fill that role as well. In my view, our action today should only mean that Government's permissible supervision of Internet contents stops at the traditional line of unprotected speech. [...] The absence of governmental regulation of Internet content has unquestionably produced a kind of chaos, but as one of the plaintiff's experts put it with such resonance at the hearing: \"What achieved success was the very chaos that the Internet is. The strength of the Internet is chaos.\" Just as the strength of the Internet is chaos, so that strength of our liberty depends upon the chaos and cacophony of the unfettered speech the First Amendment protects.\n\nThe World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) Declaration of Principles adopted in 2003 makes specific reference to the importance of the right to freedom of expression for the \"Information Society\" in stating:\n\nWe reaffirm, as an essential foundation of the Information society, and as outlined in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; that this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. Communication is a fundamental social process, a basic human need and the foundation of all social organisation. It is central to the Information Society. Everyone, everywhere should have the opportunity to participate and no one should be excluded from the benefits of the Information Society offers.\n\nAccording to Bernt Hugenholtz and Lucie Guibault the public domain is under pressure from the \"commodification of information\" as information with previously little or no economic value has acquired independent economic value in the information age. This includes factual data, personal data, genetic information and pure ideas. The commodification of information is taking place through intellectual property law, contract law, as well as broadcasting and telecommunications law.\n\nThe internet and freedom of speech have been in the spotlight quite often recently. With the removal of Alex Jones from Facebook and YouTube, questions are being raised about freedom of speech rights and how those liberties apply to the internet.\n\nFreedom of information is an extension of freedom of speech where the medium of expression is the Internet. Freedom of information may also refer to the right to privacy in the context of the Internet and information technology. As with the right to freedom of expression, the right to privacy is a recognised human right and freedom of information acts as an extension to this right. Freedom of information may also concern censorship in an information technology context, i.e. the ability to access Web content, without censorship or restrictions.\n\nFreedom of information is also explicitly protected by acts such as the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act of Ontario, in Canada.\n\nThe concept of freedom of information has emerged in response to state sponsored censorship, monitoring and surveillance of the internet. Internet censorship includes the control or suppression of the publishing or accessing of information on the Internet. The Global Internet Freedom Consortium claims to remove blocks to the \"free flow of information\" for what they term \"closed societies\". According to the Reporters without Borders (RWB) \"internet enemy list\" the following states engage in pervasive internet censorship: China, Cuba, Iran, Myanmar/Burma, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.\n\nA widely publicized example of internet censorship is the \"Great Firewall of China\" (in reference both to its role as a network firewall and to the ancient Great Wall of China). The system blocks content by preventing IP addresses from being routed through and consists of standard firewall and proxy servers at the Internet gateways. The system also selectively engages in DNS poisoning when particular sites are requested. The government does not appear to be systematically examining Internet content, as this appears to be technically impractical. Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China is conducted under a wide variety of laws and administrative regulations, including more than sixty regulations directed at the Internet. Censorship systems are vigorously implemented by provincial branches of state-owned ISPs, business companies, and organizations.\n\nBefore the invention of the printing press a written work, once created, could only be physically multiplied by highly laborious and error-prone manual copying. No elaborate system of censorship and control over scribes existed, who until the 14th century were restricted to religious institutions, and their works rarely caused wider controversy. In response to the printing press, and the \"heresies\" it allowed to spread, the Roman Catholic Church moved to impose censorship. Printing allowed for multiple exact copies of a work, leading to a more rapid and widespread circulation of ideas and information (see print culture). The origins of copyright law in most European countries lie in efforts by the Roman Catholic Church and governments to regulate and control the output of printers.\nIn 1501 Pope Alexander VI issued a Bill against the unlicensed printing of books and in 1559 the Index Expurgatorius, or \"List of Prohibited Books\", was issued for the first time. The Index Expurgatorius is the most famous and long lasting example of \"bad books\" catalogues issued by the Roman Catholic Church, which presumed to be in authority over private thoughts and opinions, and suppressed views that went against its doctrines. The Index Expurgatorius was administered by the Roman Inquisition, but enforced by local government authorities, and went through 300 editions. Amongst others, it banned or censored books written by René Descartes, Giordano Bruno, Galileo Galilei, David Hume, John Locke, Daniel Defoe, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Voltaire. While governments and church encouraged printing in many ways because it allowed for the dissemination of Bibles and government information, works of dissent and criticism could also circulate rapidly. As a consequence, governments established controls over printers across Europe, requiring them to have official licenses to trade and produce books.\nThe notion that the expression of dissent or subversive views should be tolerated, not censured or punished by law, developed alongside the rise of printing and the press. \"Areopagitica\", published in 1644, was John Milton's response to the Parliament of England's re-introduction of government licensing of printers, hence publishers. Church authorities had previously ensured that Milton's essay on the right to divorce was refused a license for publication. In Areopagitica, published without a license, Milton made an impassioned plea for freedom of expression and toleration of falsehood, stating:\n\nGive me the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to conscience, above all liberties.\nMilton's defense of freedom of expression was grounded in a Protestant worldview and he thought that the English people had the mission to work out the truth of the Reformation, which would lead to the enlightenment of all people. But Milton also articulated the main strands of future discussions about freedom of expression. By defining the scope of freedom of expression and of \"harmful\" speech Milton argued against the principle of pre-censorship and in favor of tolerance for a wide range of views. Freedom of the press ceased being regulated in England in 1695 when the Licensing Order of 1643 was allowed to expire after the introduction of the Bill of Rights 1689 shortly after the Glorious Revolution. The emergence of publications like the \"Tatler\" (1709) and the \"Spectator\" (1711) are given credit for creating a 'bourgeois public sphere' in England that allowed for a free exchange of ideas and information.\n\nAs the \"menace\" of printing spread, more governments attempted to centralize control. The French crown repressed printing and the printer Etienne Dolet was burned at the stake in 1546. In 1557 the British Crown thought to stem the flow of seditious and heretical books by chartering the Stationers' Company. The right to print was limited to the members of that guild, and thirty years later the Star Chamber was chartered to curtail the \"greate enormities and abuses\" of \"dyvers contentyous and disorderlye persons professinge the arte or mystere of pryntinge or selling of books.\" The right to print was restricted to two universities and to the 21 existing printers in the city of London, which had 53 printing presses. As the British crown took control of type founding in 1637 printers fled to the Netherlands. Confrontation with authority made printers radical and rebellious, with 800 authors, printers and book dealers being incarcerated in the Bastille in Paris before it was stormed in 1789.\n\nA succession of English thinkers was at the forefront of early discussion on a right to freedom of expression, among them John Milton (1608–74) and John Locke (1632–1704). Locke established the individual as the unit of value and the bearer of rights to life, liberty, property and the pursuit of happiness. However Locke's ideas evolved primarily around the concept of the right to seek salvation for one's soul, and was thus primarily concerned with theological matters. Locke neither supported a universal toleration of peoples nor freedom of speech; according to his ideas, some groups, such as atheists, should not be allowed.\nBy the second half of the 17th century philosophers on the European continent like Baruch Spinoza and Pierre Bayle developed ideas encompassing a more universal aspect freedom of speech and toleration than the early English philosophers. By the 18th century the idea of freedom of speech was being discussed by thinkers all over the Western world, especially by French philosophes like Denis Diderot, Baron d'Holbach and Claude Adrien Helvétius. The idea began to be incorporated in political theory both in theory as well as practice; the first state edict in history proclaiming complete freedom of speech was the one issued December 4, 1770 in Denmark-Norway during the regency of Johann Friedrich Struensee. However Struensee himself imposed some minor limitations to this edict in October 7, 1771, and it was even further limited after the fall of Struensee with legislation introduced in 1773, although censorship was not reintroduced.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill (1806–1873) argued that without human freedom there can be no progress in science, law or politics, which according to Mill required free discussion of opinion. Mill's \"On Liberty\", published in 1859 became a classic defence of the right to freedom of expression. Mill argued that truth drives out falsity, therefore the free expression of ideas, true or false, should not be feared. Truth is not stable or fixed, but evolves with time. Mill argued that much of what we once considered true has turned out false. Therefore, views should not be prohibited for their apparent falsity. Mill also argued that free discussion is necessary to prevent the \"deep slumber of a decided opinion\". Discussion would drive the onwards march of truth and by considering false views the basis of true views could be re-affirmed. Furthermore, Mill argued that an opinion only carries intrinsic value to the owner of that opinion, thus silencing the expression of that opinion is an injustice to a basic human right. For Mill, the only instance in which speech can be justifiably suppressed is in order to prevent harm from a clear and direct threat. Neither economic or moral implications, nor the speakers own well-being would justify suppression of speech.\n\nIn Evelyn Beatrice Hall's biography of Voltaire, she coined the following sentence to illustrate Voltaire's beliefs: \"I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.\" Hall's quote is frequently cited to describe the principle of freedom of speech. In the 20th Century, Noam Chomsky states that: \"If you believe in freedom of speech, you believe in freedom of speech for views you don't like. Dictators such as Stalin and Hitler, were in favor of freedom of speech for views they liked only. If you're in favor of freedom of speech, that means you're in favor of freedom of speech precisely for views you despise.\" Lee Bollinger argues that \"the free speech principle involves a special act of carving out one area of social interaction for extraordinary self-restraint, the purpose of which is to develop and demonstrate a social capacity to control feelings evoked by a host of social encounters.\" Bollinger argues that tolerance is a desirable value, if not essential. However, critics argue that society should be concerned by those who directly deny or advocate, for example, genocide (see limitations above).\n\nThe 1928 novel \"Lady Chatterley's Lover\" by D. H. Lawrence was banned for obscenity in a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia and Canada. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, it was the subject of landmark court rulings which saw the ban for obscenity overturned. Dominic Sandbrook of \"The Telegraph\" in the UK wrote, \"Now that public obscenity has become commonplace, it is hard to recapture the atmosphere of a society that saw fit to ban books such as \"Lady Chatterley’s Lover\" because it was likely to “deprave and corrupt” its readers.\" Fred Kaplan of \"The New York Times\" stated the overturning of the obscenity laws \"set off an explosion of free speech\" in the US.\n\nThe right to freedom of expression has been interpreted to include the right to take and publish photographs of strangers in public areas without their permission or knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19476030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19476030", "title": "Golden Cavalry of St George", "text": "Golden Cavalry of St George\n\nThe Golden Cavalry of St George was the colloquial name of subsidies paid out by the British government to other European states in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, particularly during the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe name is a euphemism and derives from the British Sovereign gold coins, often used in these payments, which bear an image of Saint George, the patron saint of England, on horseback slaying the dragon.\n\nDuring the War of the Austrian Succession Britain kept Austria afloat by large subsidies owing to the Anglo-Austrian Alliance. Eight years later in the Seven Years' War they did the same for Prussia, who were now their allies against the Austrians. The Anglo-Prussian Convention signed in April 1758 guaranteed Prussia a payment of £670,000 a year.\n\nIn more recent times Lawrence of Arabia is reported to have made payments of these gold sovereigns to Arab soldiers during the Arab Revolt in return for their cooperation and he was nicknamed in Arabic 'Abu Khayyal' meaning 'father of the horsemen'..\n\nDuring World War II The 'cavalry of St George' was a euphemism for large scale bribery of the Spanish officials in Franco's dictatorship to prevent Spain from joining the Germans in the war.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars a number of European states were allied with the British against France. Britain, which had a large navy but a small army, was unable to deploy major forces on the European continent. As Britain was a wealthy commercial power, they were able to pay out millions of pounds to Allied nations, who could field much larger armies against the French. An example is the £1,500,000 paid to Austria to commit troops to the campaign against the French in the Netherlands in 1793, an expedition to which the British could contribute only men. Adjusted for inflation, this is equivalent to £273,000,000 in 2011.\n\nLarge sums were made available for the purpose, sometimes as formal subsidies and sometimes as bribes for European statesman. This was partly funded by the introduction of the Income Tax by Prime Minister William Pitt. Though the policy was extremely costly, it ultimately proved successful as a coalition of European nations eventually defeated France in 1814.\n\n"}
{"id": "42709337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42709337", "title": "Gordon–Loeb model", "text": "Gordon–Loeb model\n\nThe Gordon–Loeb /ˈgȯr-dən ˈlōb/ Model is a mathematical economic model analyzing the optimal investment level in information security.\n\nInvesting to protect company data involves a cost that, unlike other investments, usually does not generate profit. It does, however, serve to prevent additional costs. Thus, it’s important to compare how expensive it is to protect a specific set of data, with the potential loss in case said data is stolen, lost, damaged or corrupted. To draft this model, the company must possess knowledge of three parameters: how much the data is worth; how much the data is at risk; the probability an attack on the data is going to be successful. This last parameter, Gordon and Loeb defined as vulnerability. The product of said parameters provides the medium money loss with no security investment. \n\nFrom the model we can gather that the amount of money a company spends in protecting information should, in most cases, be only a small fraction of the predicted loss (for example, expected value of a loss following a security breach). Specifically, the model shows that it is generally inconvenient to invest in informatics security (including cybersecurity or computer security related activities) for amounts higher than 37% of the predicted loss. The Gordon-Loeb model also shows that, for a specific level of potential loss, the amount of resources to invest in order to protect an information set does not always increase with the increase in vulnerability of said set. Thus, companies can enjoy greater economic returns by investing in cyber/information security activities aimed to increase the security of data sets with a medium level of vulnerability. In other words, the investment in safeguarding a company’s data reduces vulnerability with decreasing incremental returns.\n\nExample: suppose an estimated data value of 1.000.000 euros, with an attack probability of 15%, and an 80% chance that an attack would be successful. In this case, the potential loss is given by the product 1.000.000 euros x 0.15 x 0.8 = 120.000 euros. According to Gordon and Loeb, the company’s investment in security should not exceed 120.000 euros x 0.37 = 44.000 euros.\n\nThe Gordon–Loeb Model was first published by Lawrence A. Gordon and Martin P. Loeb in their 2002 paper, in \"ACM Transactions on Information and System Security\", entitled \"The Economics of Information Security Investment.\" The paper was reprinted in the 2004 book Economics of Information Security. Gordon and Loeb are both Professors at the University of Maryland's Robert H. Smith School of Business.\n\nThe Gordon–Loeb Model is one of the most well accepted analytical models in the \"economics of cyber/information security\" literature. The Model has been widely referenced in the academic and practitioner literature. The model has also been empirically tested in several different settings. Research by mathematicians Marc Lelarge and Yuliy Baryshnikov generalized the results of the Gordon–Loeb Model.\n\nThe Gordon–Loeb model has been featured in the popular press, such as The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times.\n"}
{"id": "393968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393968", "title": "Hardline (subculture)", "text": "Hardline (subculture)\n\nHardline is a deep ecology subculture that has its roots in the vegan straight edge hardcore punk scene.\n\nFrom an initial founding statement the movement attempted a break with the straight edge and hardcore scenes. The founding statement and subsequent literature pushed a biocentric view of the world, anti-abortion stance and much more extreme version of straight edge. Many hardline bands existed, the most well known of which were Vegan Reich and Raid.\n\nThe hardline philosophy forbids its adherents from smoking or chewing any form of tobacco, drinking alcoholic beverages, and using illicit drugs or employing medicine. Hardliners (as they are called) are expected to follow a strict dietary regimen based on the above-mentioned pillars of respect for innocent life and the \"natural order\". Hardliners eat only foods that are vegan and relatively natural (e.g. brown rice over white, evaporated cane juice over white sugar, organic produce over conventional, natural oils over hydrogenated). Human rights issues are also factored into the movement's food politics, and followers are urged to shun third-world cash crops such as coffee, chocolate, sugar, and most tropical fruits. Hardliners include caffeine in their stance on mind-altering drugs so the first two items are generally abstained from, but consumption of the last two is often given more leeway.\n\nIn keeping with its Abrahamic view of the natural order, the sexual politics of the hardline movement are very conservative. Sex is not allowed except for the reason of procreation; thus homosexuality is seen as anathema, pornography and masturbation is abjured, birth control is avoided, and abortion is militantly opposed. Although the official hardline stance on sex is that its natural purpose is purely procreative, many hardliners justify recreational sex within the context of committed relationships as potentially procreative by opting not to use birth control.\n\nHardline has always been highly syncretic (over time absorbing influences from Islam and a host of other schools of thought) and initially claimed a Taoist foundation for their sexual morals. This appeal to the orientation of the punk and hardcore scenes met with little success, and the topics of abortion and homosexuality have always been sources of tension between hardliners and their subcultural cousins.\n\nThe hardline subculture grew out of the hardcore and hardcore punk scenes in the 1990s. Although one of the basic tenets of hardline is that it has existed in various forms since the beginning of time, the ideology was largely formulated by Sean Muttaqi of the band Vegan Reich. The hardline philosophy is said to be rooted in one ethic (the sacredness of innocent life), but in reality the ethos rested on that base and on an idea of an immutable natural order. Hardline can be described as a synthesis of deep ecology, straight edge, veganism and the animal rights movement.\n\nHardline began to attract followers shortly after the 1990 release of Vegan Reich's \"Hardline\" EP and the official founding of the subculture. Other bands soon formed; the most notable of them being Raid from Tennessee.\n\nSean Muttaqi, as editor of the zine \"Vanguard\" (hardline's official press organ), was able to exert ideological influence on the movement, and caused the center of its activities to become shifted to Tennessee. Many in the Memphis hardcore scene adopted Hardline stances and started editing magazines, organizing protests, engaging in direct action against industries that exploited animals, and otherwise acting on their new beliefs. Some of the most notable achievements of Memphis Hardline were organizing the movement's first annual gathering and founding the long-standing Coalition to Abolish the Fur Trade (CAFT).\n\nThings began to fade in Memphis. Muttaqi left for Jamaica to explore Rastafari and decided to leave the hardcore scene along with hardline altogether. Editing was transferred of \"Vanguard\". \n\nHardliners were instrumental in CAFT, the Animal Defense League, and Vegans For Life. Some were also involved in Earth First!, anti-imperialist organizations, and other leftist causes and groups.\n\nSome Hardliners from Massachusetts set out to establish an intentional community in Hawaii. The effort quickly failed due to personality conflicts (especially the ongoing debate among group members as to whether or not cooked food was natural enough) and a distinct lack of required agricultural and engineering skills. In an ironic coincidence, this self-defeating arc reflects tensions in similarly idealistic communes of the 1960s and 1970s during the History of the hippie movement and the back-to-the-land movement.\n\nHardline was undoubtedly heavily inspired from its inception by straight edge. The original logo of the movement was an outline of a large \"X\" (the sign most often associated with straightedge) with two crossed M16 rifles inside it. Muttaqi has said that he was first exposed to the idea of fusing veganism and abstinence from drugs by an English punk named Rat. Rat had allegedly coined the term \"vegan straight edge\" by the mid-1980s. However, Rat was doing little to spread his ideology while Muttaqi was transforming and propagating it. Vegan Reich was for many in the hardcore scene their first exposure to ideas about militant animal liberation, and the controversy they aroused drew considerable attention to their positions. Those in the subculture who gravitated toward animal-related causes but disagreed with some of hardline's finer points found themselves becoming vegan straightedge. Vegan straightedge band Earth Crisis initially wanted Muttaqi to release their debut EP, \"All Out War\" on his record label, Uprising Records.\n\nAs hardline came into its own, many hardliners decided that their philosophy was so beyond the narrow scene politics of straightedge that the two were entirely different things. The \"X\" was removed from the crossed rifles logo, straightedge was harshly criticized, and hardliners were encouraged to leave the hardcore scene. Much of this sprang from the momentum being gained by the more activist-oriented elements within the subculture. Eventually hardliners came to consider their network wholly divorced from the hardcore scene. However, the nature of information dissemination in a mostly pre-Internet media environment made recruiting from outside the hardcore subculture next to impossible. Although hardline served to involve people heavily in political activity, the overwhelming bulk of new members were straight-edgers who would with time come to identify primarily as activists instead of hardcore kids.\n\nIn mid-1998 the subculture experienced a massive internal upheaval as Indianapolis Hardline member David Agranoff's attempts to weaken Hardline were sidelined by Boston Hardline. \"Vanguard\" number eight announced the reorganization of the movement under the authority of the newly created Hardline Central Committee (HCC) and castigated Agranoff and his comrades for softening the network's ideology through their refinement and development of it. This proved a wise decision as Agranoff later became a police informer. Chapters were instructed to report to the Committee for evaluation and were told in no uncertain terms that they would not be recognized as cells until they submitted to this review. Also in the issue was a document about the stages through which the Hardline revolution would progress which was presented as being from 1990, but had never before been seen and was suspiciously contemporary feeling.\n\nSome chapters opted to leave hardline entirely and instead established a new activist network called Education For A Sustainable Future (ESF). ESF differed from its predecessor in that it took no stances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2705944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2705944", "title": "Hunt sabotage", "text": "Hunt sabotage\n\nHunt sabotage is the direct action that animal rights or animal welfare activists undertake to interfere with hunting activity. \n\nAnti-hunting campaigners are divided into those who believe in direct intervention and those who watch the hunt to monitor for cruelty and report violations of animal welfare laws. \n\n\nIn the United Kingdom the interventionists are often (but not always) members of the Hunt Saboteurs Association, while the non-interventionists are often members of the League Against Cruel Sports or, more recently, Protect Our Wild Animals or the International Fund for Animal Welfare. \n\nEvery year in Spain, organizations such as Equanimal or the platform \"Matar por matar, non\" are involved in the sabotage of the \"Copa Nacional de Caza del Zorro\" (Spanish: \"National Fox Hunt Cup\") following the hunters making noise with megaphones to scare foxes and preventing them from being killed.\n\nAssociations\n\nBooks\n\nOthers\n"}
{"id": "9488926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9488926", "title": "Indicative planning", "text": "Indicative planning\n\nIndicative planning is a form of economic planning implemented by a state in an effort to solve the problem of imperfect information in market and mixed economies in order to increase economic performance. However, indicative planning takes only endogenous market uncertainty and plans the economy accordingly and does not look into exogenous uncertainty like technology, foreign trade, etc. When utilizing indicative planning, the state employs \"influence, subsidies, grants, and taxes [to affect the economy], but does not compel\". Indicative planning is contrasted with \"directive\" or \"mandatory planning\", where a state (or other economic unit) sets quotas and mandatory output requirements. Planning by inducement is often referred to as indicative planning.\n\nIndicative planning is coordinated information that guides the choices of separate state and private entities in a market economy or mixed economy.\n\nThis method of economic planning originated in France after the Second World War and was carried out by the Commission General du Plan. The underlying concept behind indicative planning is the early identification of oversupply, bottlenecks and shortages so that state investment behavior can be modified in a timely fashion to reduce the incidence of market disequilibrium, with the goal being a concerted economy. Indicative planning was one aspect of dirigisme.\n\nSince the 1978 economic reforms in China, the state reduced its role to directing economic activity rather than managing it through directive plans. By the early 21st century, the Chinese government had limited the role of directive mandatory planning to goods of national importance and large-scale construction, while increasing the scope of indicative planning and market forces in all other sectors of the economy. The current Chinese socialist market economy is largely based on market forces for consumer goods and indicative planning for heavy industry in the public sector.\n\nThe Soviet Union utilized indicative plans for its state-run economy up until 1928, before they were integrated into mandatory planning under the Supreme Council of the National Economy and later by the Gosplan. Alexei Kosygin's 1965 Soviet economic reform tried to introduce some sort of indicative planning in the USSR.\n\nThe Japanese government practiced indicative planning through the Japanese Economic Planning Agency.\n\nThe term \"National Economic Planning\" is associated with government's effort to coordinate the working of both the public sector and the private sector through a structured mechanism. Although, during the 20th century, the term was more associated with the communist and eastern economies, through the 1970s, theorists and practitioners documented the growth of this practice amongst western economies too . In the latter part of the 20th century and till date, economists have demanded that underdeveloped and developing countries — especially in continents like Africa — should embrace National Economic Planning to a large extent . Famous proponents and practitioners of National Economic Planning have been Nobel Prize–winning Russian politician Leonid Kantorovich, John M Hartwick , Carl Landauer (who, in 1947, wrote one of the first western books on the subject, titled Theory of National Economic Planning), American Republican politician Alf Landon, the Russian born Canadian politician David Lewis, Chinese politician Zhang Baoshun and German sociologist Adolph Lowe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4991393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4991393", "title": "Invisible Party", "text": "Invisible Party\n\nThe Invisible Party (\"Osynliga partiet\") was a Swedish conceptual anti-capitalist media campaign masquerading as an \"organization\" with the purpose of connecting all anti-capitalist action, however small or without actual realization, to an \"invisible\" political party.\n\nAlthough it called itself a party, it did not have official members but instead had \"participants\". It could not, and did not wish to, participate in elections. The professed goal of the group was to undermine the capitalist system. It was founded by different parts of the Swedish extra-parliamentary left, in particular the Swedish Anarcho-syndicalist Youth Federation.\n\nThe Invisible Party \"disbanded\" after a September 16, 2006 press release by the \"central committee\" behind the campaign declaring that they would discontinue their activities:\n\nThe Invisible Party can be seen as a shared concept, a symbol for a struggle against capitalism and the perceived exploitation of the workforce. Participation in the party has involved strikes, blockades, flyposting, sabotage, shoplifting, riots, and other radical tactics.\n\nAnna-Lena Lodenius, a Swedish author on political extremism, has described the Invisible Party as follows:\nThe leftist website Motkraft described the views of the group as follows:\nAfter the Centre Party proposed a special youth contract for those under 26 (similar to France's First Employment Contract policy), activists claiming to be members of the Invisible Party responded by vandalizing Centre Party offices throughout Sweden. The Centre Party was in opposition at the time.\n\nActivists under the banner of the Invisible Party continued the vandalism throughout the 2006 Swedish general election campaign, hitting the offices of the Christian Democrats, another opposition party, as well.\n\nAs of 2006, the Swedish Security Service (Säpo) was gathering information about the Invisible Party and its supporters.\n\nThe Invisible Party was widely misunderstood outside the extra-parliamentary left. Media presented the party as an actual organization with members in the strict and traditional sense. Because of the actions against the Centre Party the party was vilified by Swedish media and presented as a violent and anti-democratic organization. This led to the true purpose of the campaign becoming even more obscure than before. The winner of the Swedish political reality show \"Toppkandidaterna\" (The Top Candidates), Petter Nilsson, donated 100,000 of his 250,000 SEK prize-money to the project. After the actions against the Centre Party, the party demanded that the license-funded public broadcaster SVT should ask Nilsson to repay the money, and the Centre Party Youth claimed that SVT was \"responsible for the attacks\", but SVT chose not to take any action against Nilsson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58354", "title": "Medicare (Canada)", "text": "Medicare (Canada)\n\nMedicare () is an unofficial designation used to refer to the publicly funded, single-payer health care system of Canada. Canada does not have a unified national health care system, instead the system consists of 13 provincial and territorial health insurance plans that provides universal health care coverage to Canadian citizens, permanent residents, and certain temporary residents. These systems are individually administered on a provincial or territorial basis, within guidelines set by the federal government. The formal terminology for the insurance system is provided by the \"Canada Health Act\" and the health insurance legislation of the individual provinces and territories.\n\nThe name is a contraction of \"medical\" and \"care\", and was used in the United States for health care programs since at least 1953.\n\nUnder the terms of the Canada Health Act, all \"insured persons\" are entitled to receive \"insured services\" without copayment. Such services are defined as medically necessary services if provided in hospital, or by 'practitioners' (usually physicians). Approximately 70% of expenditures for health care in Canada come from public sources, with the rest paid privately (both through private insurance, and through out-of-pocket payments). The extent of public financing varies considerably across services. For example, approximately 99% of physician services, and 90% of hospital care, are paid by publicly funded sources, whereas almost all dental care is paid for privately. Most physicians are self-employed private entities which enjoy coverage under each province's respective healthcare plans.\n\nServices of non-physicians working within hospitals are covered; conversely, provinces can, but are not forced to, cover services by non-physicians if provided outside hospitals. Changing the site of treatment may thus change coverage. For example, pharmaceuticals, nursing care, and physical therapy must be covered for inpatients, but there is considerable variation from province to province in the extent to which they are covered for patients discharged to the community (e.g., after day surgery). The need to modernize coverage was pointed out in 2002 by both the Romanow Commission and by the Kirby committee of the Canadian Senate (see External links below). Similarly, the extent to which non-physician providers of primary care are funded varies; Quebec offers primary health care teams through its CLSC system.\n\nThe first implementation of public hospital care in Canada came at the provincial level in Saskatchewan in 1947 and in Alberta in 1950, under provincial governments led by the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation and the Social Credit party respectively. The first implementation of nationalized public health care – at the federal level – came about with the Hospital Insurance and Diagnostic Services Act (HIDS), which was passed by the Liberal majority government of Louis St. Laurent in 1957, and was adopted by all provinces by 1961. Lester B. Pearson's government subsequently expanded this policy to universal health care with the Medical Care Act in 1966.\n\nSome have argued that these developments towards public national health care came as a result of the adoption of a publicly funded health plan in 1961-1962 in Saskatchewan government. The fight for a publicly funded system was originally led by Premier Tommy Douglas and implemented by Woodrow Stanley Lloyd, who became premier of the province when Douglas resigned to become the leader of the new federal New Democratic Party. Although Saskatchewan is often credited with the birth of public health care funding in Canada, the federal legislation itself was actually drafted (and first proposed to parliament) by Allan MacEachen, a Liberal MP from Cape Breton.\n\nIn 1984, the Canada Health Act was passed, amalgamating the 1966 Medical Care Act and the 1957 Hospital Insurance and Diagnostic Services Act. The Canada Health Act affirmed and clarified five founding principles: (a) \"public administration\" on a non-profit basis by a public authority; (b) \"comprehensiveness\" – provincial health plans must insure all services that are medically necessary; (c) \"universality\" – a guarantee that all residents in Canada must have access to public healthcare and insured services on uniform terms and conditions; (d) \"portability\" – residents must be covered while temporarily absent from their province of residence or from Canada; and (e) \"accessibility\" – insured persons must have reasonable and uniform access to insured health services, free of financial or other barriers. These five conditions prevent provinces from radical innovation, but many small differences do exist between the provinces.\n\nAlthough in theory all Canadians should qualify for coverage, each province or territory operates its own health insurance program, and provinces and territories have enacted qualification rules which effectively exclude many Canadians from coverage. For example, to qualify for enrollment in Ontario, one must, among other requirements, \"be physically present in Ontario for 153 days in any 12-month period; and be physically present in Ontario for at least 153 days of the first 183 days immediately after establishing residency in the province.\" While there are exceptions for students studying out of province, and for mobile workers, many Canadians who regularly travel from one province to another for other reasons, as well as those who often travel outside Canada, cannot qualify for enrollment in any province. Proof-of-residency provisions requiring presentation of documents such as utility bills and bank statements also operate to establish eligibility.\n\nAccording to Canada's constitution, the provinces have responsibility for health care, education and welfare. However, the federal Canada Health Act sets standards for all the provinces. The Canada Health Act requires coverage for all medically necessary care provided in hospitals or by physicians; this explicitly includes diagnostic, treatment and preventive services. Coverage is universal for qualifying Canadian residents, regardless of income level.\n\nFunding for the health care is transferred from the general revenues of the Canadian federal government to the 10 provinces and 3 territories through the Canada Health Transfer. Some provinces also charge annual health care premiums. These are, in effect, taxes (since they are not tied to service use, nor to provincial health expenditures). The system is accordingly classified by the OECD as a tax-supported system, as opposed to the social insurance approaches used in many European countries. Boards in each province regulate the cost, which is then reimbursed by the federal government. Patients do not pay out of pocket costs to visit their doctor, at present.\n\nCanada uses a mix of public and private organizations to deliver health care in what is termed a publicly funded, privately delivered system. Hospitals and acute care facilities, including long term complex care, are typically directly funded. Health care organizations bill the provincial health authorities, with few exceptions. Hospitals are largely non-profit organizations, historically often linked to religious or charitable organizations. In some provinces, individual hospital boards have been eliminated and combined into quasi-private regional health authorities, subject to varying degrees of provincial control.\n\nPrivate services are provided by diagnostic laboratories, occupational and physical therapy centres, and other allied professionals. Non-medically necessary services, such as optional plastic surgery, are also often delivered by for-profit investor-owned corporations. In some cases patients pay directly and are reimbursed by the health care system, and in other cases a hospital or physician may order services and seek reimbursement from the provincial government.\n\nWith rare exceptions, medical doctors are small for-profit independent businesses. Historically, they have practised in small solo or group practices and billed the government Canadian Health Care system on a fee for service basis. Unlike the practice in fully socialized countries, hospital-based physicians are not all hospital employees, and some directly bill the provincial insurance plans on a fee-for-service basis. Since 2000, physicians have been allowed to incorporate for tax reasons (dates of authorization vary province to province).\n\nEfforts to achieve \"primary health care reform\" have increasingly encouraged physicians to work in multidisciplinary teams, and be paid through blended funding models, including elements of capitation and other 'alternative funding formulas'. Similarly, some hospitals (particularly teaching hospitals and rural/remote hospitals) have also experimented with alternatives to fee-for-service.\n\nIn summary, the system is known as a \"public system\" due to its public financing, but is not a nationalized system such as the UK's NHS: most health care services are provided privately.\n\nAn additional complexity is that, because health care is deemed to be under provincial jurisdiction, there is not a \"Canadian health care system\". Most providers are private, and may or may not coordinate their care. Publicly funded insurance is organized at the level of the province/territory; each manages its own insurance system, including issuing its own healthcare identification cards (a list of the provincial medical care insurance programs is given at the end of this entry). Once care moves beyond the services required by the Canada Health Act—for which universal comprehensive coverage applies—there is inconsistency from province to province in the extent of publicly funded coverage, particularly for such items as outpatient drug coverage and rehabilitation, as well as vision care, mental health, and long-term care, with a substantial portion of such services being paid for privately, either through private insurance, or out-of-pocket. Eligibility for these additional programs may be based on various combinations of such factors as age (e.g., children, seniors), income, enrollment in a home care program, or diagnosis (e.g., HIV/AIDS, cancer, cystic fibrosis).\n\nUnlike a number of other countries with universal health insurance systems, Canada lacks a universal pharmaceutical subsidy scheme, with co-payment, cost ceilings, and special subsidy groups varying by private insurer and by province. Each province may provide its own prescription drug benefit plan, although the Canada Health Act requires only coverage for pharmaceuticals delivered to hospital inpatients. Provincial prescription drug benefit plans differ across provinces. Some provinces cover only those in particular age groups (usually, seniors) and/or those on social assistance. Others are more universal. Quebec achieves universal coverage through a combination of private and public plans. Co-payments also vary. Provinces maintain their own provincial formularies, although the Common Drug Review provides evidence-based formulary listing recommendations to the provincial ministries. Note that there is ongoing controversy in Canada, as in other countries, about inclusion of expensive drugs and discrepancies in their availability, as well as in what if any provisions are made for allowing medications not yet approved to be administered under \"exceptional drug\" provisions. Drug costs are contentious. Their prices are controlled by the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board (PMPRB). The PMPRB's pricing formula ensures that Canada pays prices based on the average of those charged to selected countries; they are neither the highest, nor the lowest.\n\nDental care is not required to be covered by the government insurance plans. In Quebec, children under the age of 10 receive almost full coverage, and many oral surgeries are covered for everyone. Canadians rely on their employers or individual private insurance, pay cash themselves for dental treatments, or receive no care. In some jurisdictions, public health units have been involved in providing targeted programs to address the need of the young, the elderly or those who are on welfare. The Canadian Association of Public Health Dentistry tracks programs, and has been advocating for extending coverage to those currently unable to receive dental care.\n\nThe range of services for vision care coverage also varies widely among the provinces. Generally, \"medically required\" vision care is covered if provided by physicians (cataract surgery, diabetic vision care, some laser eye surgeries required as a result of disease, but not if the purpose is to replace the need for eyeglasses). Similarly, the standard vision test may or may not be covered. Some provinces allow a limited number of tests (e.g., no more than once within a two-year period). Others, including Ontario, Alberta, Saskatchewan, and British Columbia, do not, although different provisions may apply to particular sub-groups (e.g., diabetics, children).\n\nNaturopathic services are covered in some cases, but homeopathic services are generally not covered. Chiropractic is partially covered in some provinces. Cosmetic procedures are not typically covered. Psychiatric services (provided by physicians) are covered, fee-for-service psychology services outside of hospitals or community based mental health clinics are usually not. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, nursing, and chiropractic services are often not covered unless within hospitals. Some provinces, including Ontario include some rehabilitation services for those in the home care program, those recently discharged from hospitals (e.g., after a hip replacement), or those in particular age categories. Again, considerable variation exists, and provinces can (and do) alter their coverage decisions.\n\nThe fact that health insurance plans are administered by the provinces and territories in a country where large numbers of residents of certain provinces work in other provinces may lead to inequitable inter-provincial outcomes with respect to revenues and expenditures. For example, many residents of the Atlantic provinces work in the oil and gas industry in the western province of Alberta. For most of the year these workers may be contributing significant tax revenue to Alberta (e.g. through fuel, tobacco and alcohol taxes) while their health insurance costs are borne by their home province in Atlantic Canada.\n\nAnother considerable inter-provincial imbalance is a person who is insured by Quebec and obtains healthcare in another province or territory. Quebec does not have any physician payment agreements with any other provinces or territories of Canada. As a result, someone that sees a physician outside Quebec, even in another part of Canada, must either pay the cost themselves and submit a request to the Régie de l'Assurance Maladie du Québec (RAMQ Medicare) for reimbursement (even then, expenses are often denied), or take out a third party insurance plan. The same situation also applies to a resident of any other part of Canada visiting Quebec, only they submit any claims to their respective provincial healthplan. All provinces and territories of Canada, however, do have reciprocal hospital agreements, so hospital admissions, for example, are covered throughout Canada.\n\nPolling data in the last few years have consistently cited Canadian Health Care as among the most important political issues in the minds of Canadian voters. Along with peacekeeping, Canadian Health Care was found, based on a CBC poll, to be among the foremost defining characteristics of Canada. \nIt has increasingly become a source of controversy in Canadian politics. As a recent report from the Health Council of Canada has noted\n\"Herein lies one of the puzzles of Canadian health care: Canadians increasingly view the health care system as unsustainable and under threat, even as their own experiences with the system are mostly positive.\"\n\nAs analysts have noted, the root of the concern may be traced to successful cost control efforts in the mid 1990s, where public health expenditure per capita, in inflation-adjusted dollars, actually fell. These efforts arose from efforts by the federal government to deal with its deficit through various austerity measures, which led to cuts in their transfers to the provinces, and in turn to squeezing hospital budgets and physician reimbursements. The number of physicians being trained was reduced. The result was seen in increased wait times, particularly for elective procedures. More recently, government has been reinvesting in health care, but public confidence has been slow to recover.\n\nA number of studies have compared Canada with other countries, and concluded that each system has its own strengths and weaknesses. The World Health Organization, ranked Canada in 2000 as 30th worldwide in performance. However, the basis for these rankings has been highly contentious. As Deber noted, \"The measure of \"overall healthsystem performance\" derives from adjusting \"goal attainment\" for educational attainment. Although goal attainment is in theory based on five measures (level and distribution of health, level and distribution of \"responsiveness\" and \"fairness of financial contribution\"), the actual values assigned to most countries, including Canada, were never directly measured. The scores do not incorporate any information about the actual workings of the system, other than as reflected in life expectancy. The primary reason for Canada's relatively low standing rests on the relatively high educational level of its population, particularly as compared to France, rather than on any features of its health system.\" Other countries had similar complaints, and the WHO has not repeated this ranking.\n\nIn 2003, the prime minister and the provincial premiers agreed upon priority areas for reinvestment. The 2003 First Ministers’ Accord on Health Care Renewal reaffirmed their commitment to the principles of the Canada Health Act. They indicated the following principles:\n\n\"Drawing from this foundation, First Ministers view this Accord as a covenant which will help to ensure that:\n\nThe accord set the following priority areas: primary health care, home care, catastrophic drug coverage, access to diagnostic/medical equipment and information technology and an electronic health record. The extent of progress in meeting reform goals has varied across these areas.\n\nEvaluating the accuracy of claims about the system is hampered by several factors. The highly decentralized nature of health care delivery means that good data is not always available. It is often difficult to distinguish compelling but atypical anecdotes from systemic problems. Considerable effort is being made to develop and implement comparable indicators to allow better assessment of progress. However, the Health Council of Canada—with a mandate to monitor and report on health reform—complained in 2007 that progress has stalled.\n\nThe debate about health care has also become heavily ideological. The Fraser Institute, a right leaning think tank supporting \"competitive market solutions for public policy problems\" is a frequent critic of publicly funded Canadian Health Care. It publishes yearly reports about wait times which are then used to argue that the system is both failing and unsustainable. Others criticize their methodology, which is based on physician perceptions rather than actual waits. Other complaints come from the political left, who object to 'privatization' (by which they usually mean a heavier involvement of for-profit providers). (See, for example, the Canadian Health Coalition web page.) There are frequent debates in the media and on line between advocates and opponents of Canadian healthcare.\n\nCommon complaints relate to access, usually to elective surgery (especially hip and knee replacement and cataract surgery) and diagnostic imaging. These have been the primary targets of health care reinvestment, and it appears that considerable progress has been made for certain services, although the implications for procedures not on the target list are unclear. Canadian physicians have been heavily involved, particularly in developing appropriateness criteria to ensure timely access for necessary care. It is estimated to have cost Canada's economy $14.8 billion in 2007 to have patients waiting longer than needed for medical procedures.\nBarua and Esmail completed a study in October 2013, Waiting Your Turn, Wait Times for Health Care in Canada. The authors surveyed both private and publicly funded outpatient health care offices and found the amount of wait time between general practitioner and specialists. The second segment was determining wait times between consultation and time of procedure. They studied each province and found where the longest and shortest wait times were. Barua and Esmail found that the wait times for health services have increased 95% from 1993-2013. Esmail and Barua also compared the wait times in 2012 to the wait times in 2013. A few provinces wait times decreased but mostly provinces wait times increased slightly. The number of procedures overall that people in 2013 waited for was 928,120. This is a 6.6% increase from 2012.\n\nA related issue is the volume, and distribution, of health human resources. There are ongoing issues about the distribution of physicians, with the pendulum swinging from arguing that there were too many, to arguing that there were too few. As Ben Chan found, the major factor driving the drop in physician numbers was changes in training programs. Combined with such factors as changes in the hours worked by each physician, and a decrease in the proportion of doctors choosing to go into family practice, there were shortages in some areas, particularly for general practitioners (GP) / family doctors. One response has been to encourage 'primary care reform', including greater use of multidisciplinary health care teams. There are also ongoing issues regarding nurses. (See Nursing Health Services Research Unit, which links to some reports. CIHI also gives data about nursing.)\n\nDelisting is the term used in Canada when a province decides that a medical procedure will no longer be covered by the health care system in that province.\n\nWhile health care coverage is country wide, and is required to be portable and to have equal access, there are a few differences between what provinces will cover. In some cases, this has resulted in lost grants to the provinces; in other cases it has not.\n\nAn example of a delisted service is circumcision in Ontario. It is still possible to have a boy circumcised in Ontario by a doctor but the parents must pay the cost.\n\nThe issue of delisting services is becoming increasingly a political battleground in Canadian health care. In an effort to save health care money some provinces are delisting some services; however, some delisted services are ones that could be considered \"medically necessary\". For example, except for seniors, children, and diabetics eye exams to check vision are no longer covered in Ontario.\n\nSome politicians and think tanks have proposed removing barriers to the existence of a parallel private healthcare system. Others note that such systems act to erode cost control and impede equity.\nThough polling suggests support for such reforms has been increasing, it has yet to be adopted as official policy by any of the main federal political parties.\n\nUnder federal law, private clinics are not legally allowed to charge patients directly for services covered by the Canada Health Act, if they qualify for the public insurance. Regardless of this legal issue, many do offer such services. There are disputes as to whether surgical procedures can be performed. Two related issues have obstructed the growth of such clinics. One is regulatory — hospital-based quality assurance often failed to encompass them. This gap has been filled in most provinces, but sometimes only after celebrated incidents in which patients died in unregulated clinics, including one physician who performed cosmetic surgery in an Ontario hotel room. The second is economic — there may be no way for physicians to recoup the additional costs of running a surgical facility from their fees. Here, provinces can choose to offer 'facility fees' to these clinics, but doing so has often been contentious, particularly if hospitals felt that these costs would be better devoted to allowing them to increase their operating room time.\n\nNote that uninsured persons can pay for care (including medical tourism), and that insured persons can still pay for uninsured services. These are both niche markets.\n\nOpponents of Canadian health care often raise issues such as long wait times, a 'brain-drain' drawing qualified professionals away from Canada to other jurisdictions where working in the health care field is more profitable, and impairment of the Canadian health care system due to budget cuts. Fox News ran a story in 2007 reporting that during a period of above average numbers of births, at least 40 Canadian mothers of premature babies had to travel to the U.S. for treatment due to insufficient capacity for premature babies in British Columbia neonatal units. Nonetheless, Canada's health care system covered the health care costs of those mothers affected.\n\nIn 2003, the Government in Canada spent $2,998 USD per capita on healthcare as compared to $5,711 USD per capita in the United States, while almost every Canadian citizen is fully covered. In the United States, 11.9% of adults lack public or private health coverage, despite higher proportional spending along with large private investment.\n\nThe lack of competition has given healthcare unions a monopoly on essential services, thus ensuring a very strong bargaining position. Nova Scotia is currently debating healthcare legislation aimed at removing the threat of striking healthcare workers and replacing it with binding arbitration.\n\nOne proposed solution for improving the Canadian healthcare system is to increase funding. Proponents of this approach point to the rise of neo-conservative economic policies in Canada and the associated reduction in welfare state expenditure (particularly in the provinces) from the 1980s onwards as the cause of degradation in the system. While some say evidence clearly indicate an overall percentage increase on healthcare spending, the net spending has been drastically decreasing on top of inflation.\n\nOther critics of healthcare state that increased funding will not solve systemic problems in the healthcare system including a rising cost of medical technology, infrastructure, and wages. These critics say that Canada's proximity to the United States causes a \"brain drain\" or migration of Canadian-trained doctors and nurses (as well as other professionals) to the United States, where private hospitals can pay much higher wages and income tax rates are lower (partially because health care is not covered through taxation). Some of these critics argue that increased privatization of healthcare would improve Canada's health infrastructure. Others argue vehemently against it. For example, large resources are required to train and educate doctors. Since the number of available doctors is therefore limited, doctors working for a private system would not be working under the public system creating little to no net increase in available services.\n\nCritics of greater privatization state that healthcare should be kept public, (public in funding only, as most services are provided by the private sector including doctors who in most cases are private corporations) in part because it separates Canadians from Americans by mandating equality and fairness in health care. This is in contrast to other states where doctors are on a per capita based salary. In this sense the Canadian Healthcare system is merely a publicly funded one where services are provided by a mixture of public and private entities, which most Canadians appreciate and desire. Changing the system to eliminate the balance between public and private service providers to a completely public system is one such alternative.\n\nSince the early 1990s, Ontario has implemented several systematic reforms to reduce health care costs. Similar reforms have been implemented in other provinces.\n\nCurrently in Ontario, people with an annual taxable income above $20,000 must pay an annual health care premium ranging from $60–$900. Funding for health care in Ontario also comes in part from a dedicated Employer Health Tax (EHT) that ranges from 0.98%-1.95% of employer payroll. Eligible employers are exempted from EHT on the first $400,000 of payroll. British Columbia and Quebec charge similar premiums.\n\nOntario has increased the number of 24-hour drop-in medical clinic networks to reduce costs associated with treating off-hours emergencies in hospital emergency rooms.\n\nMany family doctor practices have created their own clinics, offering 24-hour service for their patients if needed. Each doctor in the practice takes a turn at being \"on call\" on a rotating basis. Patients who have family doctors belonging to these practices are able to have a doctor come to their home in extreme situations. There is no additional charge for these services as they are billed to the Province, the same as an office visit.\n\nHospitals in some major Canadian cities, such as London, Ontario, have restructured their emergency services to share emergency treatment among several hospitals. One hospital may provide full emergency room care, while another sees patients who have broken limbs, minor injuries and yet another sees patients suffering cold, flu, etc.\n\nIn 2007, the first nurse practitioner-led office to relieve waiting times caused by a shortage of primary practitioners was opened in Sudbury, Ontario.\n\nOntario has also attempted to move the system away from bill for service or visit and toward preventive and community-based approaches to healthcare. The Ontario government in the early 1990s helped develop many community health care centres, often in low-income areas, which provide both medical and social support which combines health care with programs such as collective kitchens, Internet access, anti-poverty groups and groups to help people quit smoking.\n\nWhile funding has decreased for these centres, and they have had to cut back, they have had a lower cost than the traditional fee-for-service approach. Many of these centres are filled to capacity in terms of general doctors, and there are often fairly long waiting lists and the centres also utilize nurse practitioners, who reduce the workload on the doctors and increase efficiency.\n\nOntario and Quebec have recently licensed midwives, providing another option for childbirth which can reduce costs for uncomplicated births. Midwives remain close to hospital facilities in case the need for emergency care emerges. These births often cost much less than the traditional hospital delivery. Hospitals have also reformed their approach to birthing by adding private birthing areas, often with a hot tub (which is good for relieving pain without medication).\n\nCurrently, privately owned and operated hospitals that allow patients to pay out-of-pocket for services cannot obtain public funding in Canada, as they contravene the \"equal accessibility\" tenets of the Canada Health Act. Some politicians and medical professionals have proposed allowing public funding for these hospitals. Workers' Compensation Boards, the Canadian Forces, the RCMP, federally incarcerated prisoners, and medical care for which an insurance company has liability (e.g., motor vehicle accidents) all pay for health care outside of the public systems in all provinces.\n\nIn Quebec, a recent legal change has allowed this reform to occur. In June 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada overturned a Quebec law preventing people from buying private health insurance to pay for medical services available through the publicly funded system and this ruling does not apply outside the province. See: Chaoulli v. Quebec (Attorney General).\n\nIn November 2005, the Quebec government announced that it would allow residents to purchase private medical insurance to comply with this ruling.\n\nPrivate insurance from companies such as Blue Cross, Green Shield and Manulife have been available for many years to cover services not covered by the Canadian health care system, such as dental care and some eye care. Private insurance is provided by many employers as a benefit.\n\nThe Canadian Medical Association (CMA) released a report in July 2007 endorsing private healthcare as a means to improve an ailing healthcare system. Dr. Brian Day, who acted as President of the CMA in 2007/2008, is the owner of the largest private healthcare hospital in Canada and a proponent of mixed public and private healthcare in Canada.\n\nIt is generally accepted that physicians arriving in Canada from other countries must meet Canadian Health Practitioner standards. So there is concern that doctors from other countries are not trained or educated to meet Canadian standards. Consequently, doctors who want to practise in Canada must meet the same educational and medical qualifications as Canadian-trained practitioners. Others suggest that the Canadian Medical Association, the Ontario Medical Association, and the regulatory bodies (the provincial Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons) have created too much red tape to allow qualified doctors to practise in Canada. Canada's health system is ranked 30th in the world, suggesting the logic of the doctor shortage defies the statistics. In fact according to a report by Keith Leslie of the Canadian Press in the Chronicle Journal, Nov 21, 2005, over 10,000 trained doctors are working in the United States, a country ranked 37th in the world. It would suggest money or the perception of better working conditions, or both, are resulting in an exodus of Canadian doctors (and nurses) to the USA.\n\nIt is important to recognize that many consider the doctor shortage in Canada to be a very severe problem affecting all sectors of health care. It may relate in part to the details of how doctors are paid; a detail often misunderstood. In Canada, almost all doctors receive a fee per-visit, not per-service. It has been suggested that this type of \"fee-for-visit\" payment system can encourage complexity, volume visits, repeat visits, referrals, and testing.\n\nOne consequence of the shortage in Canada is that a great many patients are left without family doctors, and trained specialists, making early intervention very difficult. As the article in the Toronto Star specially isolates, it is not so much a problem of a doctor shortage but of a shortage of 'licensed doctors'. Michael Urbanski states that Canada already has a hidden reserve of foreign-trained MDs eager to begin medical practice. \"However, what's crucial to understanding the issue of doctor shortage in Ontario is that while the Liberal government is planning to go \"poaching\" for other countries' doctors, there are an estimated 4,000 internationally trained doctors right here in Ontario working at low-wage jobs.\"\n\nA CBC report [6](August 21, 2006) on the health care system reports the following:\n\nDr. Albert Schumacher, former president of the Canadian Medical Association estimates that 75 per cent of health-care services are delivered privately, but funded publicly. \"Frontline practitioners whether they're GPs or specialists by and large are not salaried. They're small hardware stores. Same thing with labs and radiology clinics …The situation we are seeing now are more services around not being funded publicly but people having to pay for them, or their insurance companies. We have sort of a passive privatization.\n\nIn a report by Keith Leslie of the Canadian Press in the Chronicle Journal, Nov 21, 2005, commenting on an Ontario Medical Association Report, prepared by the human resources committee states \"The year 2005 finds the province in the midst of a deepening physician resources crisis\". The report continues to report, \"the government should make it easier for doctors from other provinces to work in Ontario and ... \". Here we have signs of inter-provincial competition affecting the doctor shortage in one province over another. Essentially, privatized healthcare is not a choice of interest for lower income Canadians, it is most likely to be unaffordable and unfair to those who suffer on a social standard.\n\nThough the Canada Health Act provides national guidelines for healthcare, the provinces have exclusive jurisdiction over health under the constitution and are free to ignore these guidelines, although if they ignore the guidelines, the federal government may deny federal funding for healthcare. All provinces currently abide by the Canada Health Act in order to receive this funding; however the Alberta legislature has considered proposals to ignore the Act to allow them to implement reforms not allowed under the Act.\n\nThe federal government has no direct role in the delivery of medicine in the provinces and territories so each province and territory has its own independent public health insurance program. Under the Canada Health Act, each province and territory must provide services to members of plans in other provinces and territories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21434496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21434496", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (Syria)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (Syria)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform () is a government ministry office of the Syrian Arab Republic, responsible for agriculture affairs in Syria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53281153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53281153", "title": "Mohna Ansari", "text": "Mohna Ansari\n\nMohna Ansari () is a member of National Human Rights Commission of Nepal. She was appointed to this position in October 2014. She is a well-known rights activist, and Nepal's only female attorney from the Muslim community.\nShe worked as a commissioner at the National Women Commission (NWC) of Nepal between 2010 and 2014. She then worked as the Senior Advisor of IDEA International.\n\nMohna Ansari was born in Nepalganj, Banke, in a lower middle-class Muslim family. She grew up in \"ailani\" land \"(\"public land informally owned) with her family. When she was in the six grade, the land reform program introduced by the government allowed her father to pay taxes and claim ownership of the land. However, there was a counter-claim on their land, and her father lost her case in the court. She attributes this incident as inspiration to become a lawyer later in life. Her family's sole source of income was her father's carpentry shop. However, her parents are illiterate, so they wanted their kids to be educated and to have careers in different sectors. Her brothers went to English medium boarding school, while she went to government school but according to her she was happy that her parent sent her to school where she got education not only Islamic but also modern education.\n\nFinancial issues plagued her college education and she was forced to drop out after her first year. She joined college three years later upon getting a scholarship. Then, she enrolled in a bachelor in law at Mahendra Multiple College, the only government college in Nepalgunj and graduated in 2003. During her studies, she supported herself by teaching in schools and working as a private tutor. She also found time to write articles about issues affecting women and children for local newspapers.\nShe has an additional degree, a master's degree in sociology. She also participated in a course on the \"Human Rights and Peace Studies\" conducted by South Asian Forum for Human Rights (SAFHR) in 2004.\n\nShe started her career as a journalist at a young age, reporting mainly on women and children issues, and partially got involved with the work of the Amnesty International Nepal as well as INSEC. She was appointed by the government as a member of the Regional Sports Development Committee for Mid-Western Region in 1994. After her graduation in 2003, she joined the Nepal Bar Association Banke and managed a legal assistance program for vulnerable women and children.\nFrom 2004 to 2010, Ansari worked with several national and international organizations including Action Aid Nepal, the McConnell Foundation, the Women's Power Development Center and the UNDP covering the areas of women empowerment and social inclusion, gender and equity, legal education, conflict resolution, peace building and mediation and human rights. As one of the expert panel appointed by the SNV Nepal in 2010, she wrote a paper for the National Inclusion Commission (NIC) on social inclusion of Muslims in Nepal. She is also a master trainer of the “Gender and Equity Concerns” and has trained hundreds of men and women.\n\nShe presented papers on women and children's issues in international forums in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia, the Netherlands, Belgium, and United States. Recently in 2014, she presented a paper on “Statelessness Among Women and Children in Nepal” in the Global Forum on Statelessness in The Hague.\n\nIn 2016, Ansari attended the Universal Periodic Review of Nepal at the Human Rights Council in Geneva as a member of the National Human Rights Commission. Speaking on behalf of the Commission, Ansari spoke about the use of state force in the suppression of the Madhesh movement, and discriminatory citizenship provisions. While she was leading an investigation team for the Madhesh movement, the team found that live ammunition was used instead of rubber bullets. Following this meeting, the then Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli raised questions with NHRC Chairman Anup Raj Sharma and other commissioners about the speech. Nikhil Narayan, the senior legal adviser to ICJ (South Asia), said this summons and criticism threatened members of the NHRC, and prevented the Commission from discharging its duties independently.\n\nAnsari has received recognition for her work and has been honored with the following awards. \n"}
{"id": "31285990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31285990", "title": "Municipal associations in Thuringia", "text": "Municipal associations in Thuringia\n\nIn the Free state of Thuringia (de:Freistaat Thueringen) there is the posibiliuty to establish Municipal associations (de:Verwaltungsgemeinschaften) according to § 46 of the \"Thuringian Communal- and District Order \" (de: Thueringer Kommunalordnung –TuerKO). In addition, the transference of administration procedures to a particular fulfilling municipality (\"\") might be possible as well.\n\n\n1 District Altenburger Land\n2 District Landkreis Eichsfeld\n3 District Landkreis Gotha\n4 District Landkreis Greiz\n5 District Landkreis Hildburghausen\n6 District Ilm-Kreis\n7 District Kyffhäuserkreis\n8 District Landkreis Nordhausen\n9 District Saale-Holzland-Kreis\n10 District Saale-Orla-Kreis\n11 District Saalfeld-Rudolstadt\n\n12 District Schmalkalden-Meiningen\n13 District Sömmerda\n14 District Unstrut-Hainich-Kreis\n15 District Wartburgkreis\n16 District Weimarer Land\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30882554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30882554", "title": "National Bullying Prevention Month", "text": "National Bullying Prevention Month\n\nNational Bullying Prevention Month is a campaign in the United States founded in 2006 by PACER's National Bullying Prevention Center. The campaign is held during the month of October and unites communities nationwide to educate and raise awareness of bullying prevention. Traditionally held the first week in October, the event was expanded in 2010 to include activities, education, and awareness building for the entire month. National Bullying Prevention Month is recognized in communities across the United States, with hundreds of schools and organizations signing on as partners. Facebook, CNN and Yahoo! Kids have supported the month through media outreach and dissemination.\n\nPACER developed the initial campaign National Bullying Prevention and Awareness Week in response to the need to raise awareness of bullying, as it was historically viewed \"a childhood rite of passage\" and believed that bullying \"made kids tougher\", when the reality is that bullying has devastating effects such as school avoidance, loss of self-esteem, increased anxiety, and depression. PACER reached out to the community through partnerships with education based organizations such as National PTA, American Federation of Teachers and National Education Association to provide schools, parents and students with resources to respond to bullying behavior and to begin the shift of societal acceptance of bullying to social change of addressing the issue through education and support. PACER disseminated nationwide press releases through the partners and media channels, encouraging a call to action to educate the community about their role in bullying prevention, which provided the groundwork for the campaign to be consistently recognized as an annual event.\n\n\n\nThe 10th annual event in October 2015 \nPACER partners with:\n\nThe ninth annual event in October 2014\n\nPACER partners with: \n\nThe eighth annual month in October 2013\n\nPACER partners with:\n\n\nThe seventh annual month was held in October 2012.\n\nPACER partners with:\n\nThe sixth annual was held in October 2011 and includes opportunities to partner, share activities, and support the movement.\n\nNational partners included PACER's National Bullying Prevention Center, National PTA, American Federation for Teachers, National School Climate Center (Bully Bust), National Education Association - NEA, National Association of State Directors of Special Education and many more!\n\nSpecial events included:\n\n• PACER's second annual Run, Walk, Roll Against Bullying. Other organizations around the country hold their own Run, Walk, Rolls using PACER's free online toolkit,\n\n• PACER creates UNITY DAY with a call to action to \"Make it orange, make it end, unite against bullying\". Ellen DeGeneres wears orange to show her support.\n\n• UNITY DANCE DAY Students around the country participate in PACER's first UNITY DANCE DAY, using music and dance to show support of those who are bullied.\n\nThe fifth annual event grows from a week to a month with October designated National Bullying Prevention Month which unites communities nationwide to raise awareness of bullying prevention. The event is expanded to include free, downloadable activities, education, and awareness building for the entire month and the message is realigned to engage, educate and inspire other to join the movement. Educators, students, families, and individuals who care about students access the tools to address bullying in their school, recreational program, and community organizations. Over 700 partners and champions joined PACER Center against bullying join the cause. Yahoo! Kids features the campaign on their site for the third year and Facebook, Demi Lovato and PACER partner to reach millions on a cyberbullying prevention message. The month is featured on CNN's Anderson Coopers Town Hall meetings. Ellen DeGeneres lists PACER Center as a bullying prevention resource on her website along with several other national media resources, such as CNN.com.\n\nThe fourth annual National Bullying Prevention Week was held Oct. 4 - 10, 2009. The campaign title is condensed and retitled to \"National Bullying Prevention Week\". The mission of the week is realigned to encourage children, teens, adults, schools, and communities across the country to partner with PACER Center to prevent bullying. The movement is being given a boost with the launch of —a relevant, edgy Website created by and for teens. In addition to videos, stories, blogs, and social networking, the site features a toolbox of things teens and schools can do to address bullying—from creating their own videos to performing role plays for younger students. Teen sensation, Demi Lovato, also becomes the spokesperson for PACER and the cause. A free, downloadable classroom toolkit is added to the campaign, along with interactive role plays. Over 300 partners sign for the event. Yahoo! Kids features the campaign on their site for the second year.\n\nThe third annual National Bullying Prevention Awareness Week was held Oct. 5 - 11, 2008. It was sponsored by PACER Center's National Center for Bullying Prevention. Cosponsors were the National PTA, National Education Association, American Federation for Teachers, National Coalition for Parent Involvement in Education, and School Social Work Association of America. Yahoo! Kids features the week-long campaign on their website. Over 100 partners join the cause online.\n\nThe second annual National Bullying Prevention Awareness Week was held Oct. 21 - 27, 2007. It was sponsored by PACER Center's National Center for Bullying Prevention. Cosponsors were the National PTA, National Education Association, American Federation for Teachers, National Coalition for Parent Involvement in Education, and School Social Work Association of America. Teachers, parents, and children nationwide are encouraged to increase community awareness about the prevalence and impact of bullying on all children. Activities and materials such as contests, toolkits, and online bullying prevention training are available at .\n\nNational Bullying Prevention Awareness Week was held Oct. 22 - 28, 2006. It is sponsored by PACER Center and cosponsored by National PTA, National Coalition for Parent Involvement in Education, and National Education Association. Teachers, parents, and children nationwide were encouraged to use bullying prevention activities and materials at PACER's interactive, animated website for elementary school students to help end bullying.\n\n\"Childhood bullying is a significant problem nationwide,\" said Paula F. Goldberg, executive director of PACER, a national parent center located in Minnesota. \"It can cause school absenteeism, mental and physical stress, poor school performance, poor self-esteem, and, in some cases, school violence. Statistics show that 160,000 children in the United States miss school each day as a result of being bullied. That's not acceptable. \"Teachers and parents can play a critical role in creating a climate where bullying is not tolerated. When adults and children stand together, bullying ends,\" Goldberg said.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44369123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44369123", "title": "National Movement (Poland)", "text": "National Movement (Poland)\n\nNational Movement (), abbreviated to RN, is a political party, first formed as an electoral alliance of far-right and right-wing populist political movements in Poland, which have signed an ideological agreement, including movements National Radical Camp and the All-Polish Youth, and conservative-liberal Real Politics Union, the only political party taking part in the agreement. The party was formed after the Polish Independence March in 2012.\n\nThe First Congress of the National Movement took place on June 8, 2013 in Warsaw. Guest of honor at the congress was Rafał Ziemkiewicz. Representatives of the groups co-create the movement signed the declaration of ideological National Movement.\n\nThe Second Congress of the National Movement took place May 3, 2014 in Warsaw. Honorary guests of the congress were Leszek Zebrowski, Stanislaw Michalkiewicz and Márton Gyöngyösi of the Hungarian Jobbik. Also the guest list included the party's other international allies: Roberto Fiore of Forza Nuova \"()\"', and the leaders of the Spanish Democracia Nacional. The congress passed the following demands of the program:\n\n\nAs adopted in the January 2013 declaration of ideology, the decision-making council of the National Movement has indicated its three main components: identity (nation, family, people), sovereignty (the state, culture, economy) and freedom (of speech, management, people); identified the awareness and commitment of the young generation of Poles as the strength of the National Movement and pledged to work on the transformation of the homeland, emphasized the idea of the nation, understood as a cultural community formed by generations. National Movement advocates fight for the sovereignty of the country, to repair the political and economic state and defending the freedom of its citizens, as well as the realisation in the sphere of culture and politics of traditional values. The purpose of the Movement is a fundamental social change - the so-called. \"Overthrow of the republic of the Round Table\". Declares itself as a social movement which is a network of community initiatives for state sovereignty and national identity.\n\nIn the absence of hierarchical and organisational dependencies, the movement will be guided by the common symbols, and the demands of the electorate. One of the symbols is the image of the nationalist right, which formed in the struggle for Polish independence. For most of the activists of the Movement such symbols are also soldiers of the army of the underground National Armed Forces (NSZ), who fought during World War II and after the war against the German and Soviet occupation. National Armed Forces, founded by the military part of the underground organisation nationalist camp in 1942, also declared obedience to submit to the Army. Among the soldiers of the National Armed Forces of the Supervisory Board sees its historical similarity and should continue to operate. Fundamental important dates to the Movement is the day commemorating the creation of the National Armed Forces attributable to 22 September, the anniversary of Captain Witold Pilecki's death sentence and 1 March - National Day of Remembrance \"Soldiers accursed\" (from 2011 official holiday) and attributable to the November 11 march Independence. National Movement is also trying to commemorate the anniversary of the imposition of martial law and the 1981 workers' uprising in Poznań in 1956.\n\nNational Movement, a coalition of independent groups, presents a conservative position on social issues. According to the program, decided at the second congress of 2014 the movement traditional ally of the Catholic Church and will strive to uphold traditional Christian values. The movement also refers to the tradition and heritage of ancient Rome. The progress of civilisation, which was to take place in Poland thanks to EU funds, is treated as a partial compensation for the losses that Poland suffered in connection with the unilateral opening of the market in the pre-accession period, while Polish banking sector depends on foreign capital.\n\nThe outline of the economic program was presented by Krzysztof Bosak during the second congress of the Movement. According to the RN, it is possible to combine a wide range of economic freedoms with constructive approach to the state, furnished on the basis of the principles of thrift and subsidiarity. The establishment of the Institute for National Strategy, will bring together experts and work out a modern program for the National Movement.\n\nThe movement is opposed to the introduction of the euro in Poland.\n\nThe National Movement is assumed to be an eurosceptic grouping.\n\nIn a joint statement with the Hungarian Jobbik on the situation in Ukraine, they have indicated a desire to deepen cooperation between the two groups. They announced the Polish-Hungarian exchange of lists of candidates for election to the European Parliament in 2014 (which ultimately did not happen). Hungarian and Polish nationalists believe that national governments devote national interests in favour of eurofederalism. In this particular case, both national movements called together the national authorities of their countries for political and diplomatic efforts to protect endangered the rights of national minorities in Ukraine due to the revolutionary mood in the east, including promoting the symbolism and characters associated with the Ukrainian ethnic chauvinism that in the context of historical experience violently celebrated national minorities in these lands.\n\nThe National Movement announced their desire to take in the elections to the European Parliament on the 7th January 2014 which were to be held in the same year. The movement's policies for these elections were: Building a \"Europe of Homelands\" instead of a \"European Federal State\" through annulling the Lisbon Treaty, the fight against the promotion of gender ideology, promoting Polish historical policy at the EU level, striving for the rights of Poles abroad (especially in Lithuania) withdrawal from the climate package, as well as promoting Polish mining and coal-based energy [13]. The National Movement fielded candidates in all constituencies. In the elections 98 626 people voted for the National Movement, which gave it 1.4% of the vote (9th place overall).\n\nIn the by-election to district No. 47 of the Senate on September 7, 2014, the candidate of the National Movement, Krzysztof Bosak, received 6.42% of votes, which placed him in 3rd place out of 6 candidates.\n\nIn the Polish presidential election in 2015 the party fielded a candidate, Marian Kowalski, a columnist and bodybuilder. He was eliminated in the first-round with only 77,630 votes, a 0.52% share.\n\nIn the 2015 parliamentary election the RN cooperated with Kukiz'15, whose five of 42 seats were held by National Movement members. On April 2016 National Movement management decided to leave Kukiz's movement, but only one MP followed party instruction. These ones, who stayed in Kukiz'15, together with a few other Kukiz's MPs, formed association \"National Democracy\" (Endecja).\n"}
{"id": "49349454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49349454", "title": "Nurul Islam (lawyer)", "text": "Nurul Islam (lawyer)\n\nNurul Islam is a Rohingya political activist and Yangon-educated lawyer from Myanmar (Burma). He is the president of the Arakan Rohingya National Organisation (ARNO) and lives with his family in London, the United Kingdom.\n\nIslam is the president of the Arakan Rohingya National Organisation (ARNO), a political organisation that campaigns for the rights of the Rohingya people, an ethnic minority in northern Rakhine State, Myanmar. He has worked closely with other organisations, such as the National United Party of Arakan, a Rakhine nationalist political party. \n\nIslam is a vocal political activist, having held multiple peaceful rallies outside the Burmese embassy in London, where he resides. He, along with his associates, has called on the international community to \"protect the defenseless Rohingyas\".\n\nIslam achieved a bachelors and a Bachelors of Law (LL.B) from Rangoon University (now the University of Yangon) in 1972 and 1973 respectively. He completed his Diplomacy Training Program from the University of New South Wales in Australia, and achieved a masters in Human Rights from the University of East London in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "34560927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34560927", "title": "OPEC siege", "text": "OPEC siege\n\nOn December 21, 1975, six militants attacked the semi-annual meeting of OPEC leaders in Vienna, Austria; the attackers took more than 60 hostages after killing an Austrian policeman, an Iraqi OPEC security officer, and a Libyan economist. Several other individuals were wounded. The self-named \"Arm of the Arab Revolution\" group was led by Carlos the Jackal. The siege ended two days later, after flights to Algiers and Tripoli, with all the hostages and terrorists walking away from the situation.\n\nOn December 21, 1975, Saudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum Ahmed Zaki Yamani and the other oil ministers of the members of OPEC were taken hostage in Vienna, Austria, where the ministers were attending a meeting at the OPEC headquarters at Dr-Karl-Lueger-Ring 10 (renamed Universitätsring in 2012). The hostage attack was orchestrated by a six-person team led by Venezuelan terrorist Carlos the Jackal (which included Gabriele Kröcher-Tiedemann, Hans-Joachim Klein and Anis al-Naqqash). The self-named \"Arm of the Arab Revolution\" group called for the liberation of Palestine. Carlos planned to take over the conference by force and kidnap all eleven oil ministers in attendance and hold them for ransom, with the exception of Ahmed Zaki Yamani and Iran's Jamshid Amuzegar, who were to be executed.\n\nCarlos led his team past two police officers in the building's lobby and up to the first floor, where a police officer, an Iraqi plainclothes security guard and a young Libyan economist, Yusuf al-Azmarly, were shot dead.\n\nAs Carlos entered the conference room and fired shots into the ceiling, the delegates ducked under the table. The terrorists searched for Ahmed Zaki Yamani and then divided the sixty-three hostages into groups. Delegates of friendly countries were moved toward the door, 'neutrals' were placed in the centre of the room and the 'enemies' were placed along the back wall, next to a stack of explosives. This last group included those from Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar and the UAE. Carlos demanded that a bus be provided to take his group and the hostages to the airport, where a DC-9 airplane and crew would be waiting. In the meantime, Carlos briefed Yamani on his plan to eventually fly to Aden, where Yamani and Amuzegar would be killed. During the attack Hans-Joachim Klein was shot and injured; however, Carlos refused to leave him behind and demanded medical assistance. Kurdish-born doctor Wiriya Rawenduzy, who was living and working in Vienna, volunteered to accompany the terrorists on board in exchange for the hostages' safe release upon arrival.\n\nCarlos demanded that the Austrian authorities read a communiqué about the Palestinian cause on Austrian radio and television networks every two hours. To avoid the threatened execution of a hostage every 15 minutes, the Austrian government agreed and the communiqué was broadcast as requested. The communiqué written in French demanded the Arab world wage a \"total liberation war\". Vienna Police said that 96 hostages were taken during the siege. The attackers freed about 50 Vienna resident hostages and a bus was provided the following morning at 6:40 as requested and 42 hostages were boarded and taken to the airport.\n\nAn Austrian Airlines DC-9 was provided for the group and was airborne just after 9:00, with explosives placed under Yamani's seat. The plane first stopped in Algiers, where Carlos left the plane to meet with the Algierian Foreign minister. Five oil-ministers and 31 other hostages were released, five oil ministers were kept.\n\nThe refueled plane left for Tripoli, where there was trouble in acquiring another plane as had been planned. Carlos decided to instead return to Algiers and change to a Boeing 707, a plane large enough to fly to Baghdad nonstop. Ten more hostages were released before leaving.\n\nWith only ten hostages remaining, the Boeing 707 left for Algiers and arrived at 3:40 a.m. After leaving the plane to meet with the Algerians, Carlos talked with his colleagues in the front cabin of the plane and then told Yamani and Amuzegar that they would be released at mid-day. Carlos was then called from the plane a second time and returned after two hours.\n\nAt this second meeting it is believed that Carlos held a phone conversation with Algerian President Houari Boumédienne, who informed Carlos that the oil ministers' deaths would result in an attack on the plane. Yamani's biography suggests that the Algerians had used a covert listening device on the front of the aircraft to overhear the earlier conversation between the terrorists, and found that Carlos had in fact still planned to murder the two oil ministers. Boumédienne must also have offered Carlos asylum at this time and possibly financial compensation for failing to complete his assignment.\n\nOn returning to the plane Carlos stood before Yamani and Amuzegar and expressed his regret at not being able to murder them. He then told the hostages that he and his comrades would leave the plane, after which they would all be free. After waiting for the terrorists to leave, Yamani and the other nine hostages followed and were taken to the airport by Algerian Foreign Minister Abdelaziz Bouteflika. The terrorists were present in the next lounge and Khalid, the Palestinian, asked to speak to Yamani. As his hand reached for his coat, Khalid was surrounded by guards and a gun was found concealed in a holster. All the hostages and terrorists walked away from the situation, two days after it began.\n\nIn the years following the OPEC raid, Carlos's accomplices revealed that the operation was commanded by Wadie Haddad, a founder of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. They also claimed that the idea and funding came from an Arab president, widely thought to be Libya's Muammar al-Gaddafi. Fellow militants Bassam Abu Sharif and Klein claimed that Carlos received and kept a ransom between US$20 million and US$50 million from \"an Arab president\". Carlos claimed that Saudi Arabia paid ransom on behalf of Iran, but that the money was \"diverted en route and lost by the Revolution\". He was finally captured in 1994 and is serving life sentences for at least 16 other murders.\n\nThe 1997 film \"The Assignment\" depicts the OPEC siege early in the film.\n\nThe 2010 Olivier Assayas-directed series \"Carlos\" documented the life of Ramírez Sánchez. The film won a Golden Globe Award for Best Miniseries or Television Movie. Carlos was played by the Venezuelan actor Édgar Ramírez.\n"}
{"id": "37215345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37215345", "title": "Older People for Older People", "text": "Older People for Older People\n\nOlder People for Older People (or O4O) was a project aimed to provide a greater degree of independence to the elderly whom were located in non-urban areas.\n\nThe project was a winner at the Regions for Economic Change Conference in 2012.\n\nWith the intent to focus on what the elderly could provide for a community, and recognize their capabilities, the project investigated the means of using community building to facilitate the provision of services available to those people of old age. It used older people's skills to assist other older people, delaying the times at which they move out of their own homes. It was part-financed by the European Regional Development Fund through the Northern Periphery Programme and covered rural areas of Scotland, Finland, Greenland, Northern Ireland and Sweden. It ran from 2008 to 2013. At the end of the project, some services developed under it continued to be provided.\n\nThe project was supported by the University of the Highlands and Islands, the University of Aberdeen and the Highlands and Islands Enterprise. The project was shortlisted for the RegioStars awards in December 2011 and announced as winner at the Regions for Economic Change Conference in 2012.\n\nOne project outcome was the development of a toolkit to help others create their own O4O projects. Some example outcomes which were developed are community transport, supported housing, self-sufficiency via a luncheon club using shared local produce, volunteering and schemes for friendship and helping.\n"}
{"id": "22615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22615", "title": "Ostracism", "text": "Ostracism\n\nOstracism (, \"ostrakismos\") was a procedure under the Athenian democracy in which any citizen could be expelled from the city-state of Athens for ten years. While some instances clearly expressed popular anger at the citizen, ostracism was often used preemptively. It was used as a way of neutralizing someone thought to be a threat to the state or potential tyrant. It has been called an \"honourable exile\" by scholar P. J. Rhodes. The word \"ostracism\" continues to be used for various cases of social shunning.\n\nThe name is derived from the \"ostraka\" (singular \"ostrakon\", ὄστρακον), referring to the pottery shards that were used as voting tokens. Broken pottery, abundant and virtually free, served as a kind of scrap paper (in contrast to papyrus, which was imported from Egypt as a high-quality writing surface, and was thus too costly to be disposable).\n\nEach year the Athenians were asked in the assembly whether they wished to hold an ostracism. The question was put in the sixth of the ten months used for state business under the democracy (January or February in the modern Gregorian Calendar). If they voted \"yes\", then an ostracism would be held two months later. In a section of the agora set off and suitably barriered, citizens gave the name of those they wished to be ostracised to a scribe, as many of them were illiterate, and they then scratched the name on pottery shards, and deposited them in urns. The presiding officials counted the \"ostraka\" submitted and sorted the names into separate piles. The person whose pile contained the most \"ostraka\" would be banished, provided that an additional criterion of a quorum was met, about which there are two principal sources:\nPlutarch's evidence for a quorum of 6,000, on \"a priori\" grounds a necessity for ostracism also per the account of Philochorus, accords with the number required for grants of citizenship in the following century and is generally preferred.\n\nThe person nominated had ten days to leave the city. If he attempted to return, the penalty was death. Notably, the property of the man banished was not confiscated and there was no loss of status. After the ten years, he was allowed to return without stigma. It was possible for the assembly to recall an ostracised person ahead of time; before the Persian invasion of 479 BC, an amnesty was declared under which at least two ostracised leaders—Pericles' father Xanthippus and Aristides 'the Just'—are known to have returned. Similarly, Cimon, ostracised in 461 BC, was recalled during an emergency.\n\nOstracism was crucially different from Athenian law at the time; there was no charge, and no defence could be mounted by the person expelled. The two stages of the procedure ran in the reverse order from that used under almost any trial system — here it is as if a jury are first asked \"Do you want to find someone guilty?\", and subsequently asked \"Whom do you wish to accuse?\". Equally out of place in a judicial framework is perhaps the institution's most peculiar feature: that it can take place at most once a year, and only for one person. In this it resembles the Greek \"pharmakos\" or scapegoat — though in contrast, \"pharmakos\" generally ejected a lowly member of the community.\n\nA further distinction between these two modes (and one not obvious from a modern perspective) is that ostracism was an automatic procedure that required no initiative from any individual, with the vote simply occurring on the wish of the electorate — a diffuse exercise of power. By contrast, an Athenian trial needed the initiative of a particular citizen-prosecutor. While prosecution often led to a counterattack (or was a counterattack itself), no such response was possible in the case of ostracism as responsibility lay with the polity as a whole. In contrast to a trial, ostracism generally reduced political tension rather than increased it.\n\nAlthough ten years of exile would have been difficult for an Athenian to face, it was relatively mild in comparison to the kind of sentences inflicted by courts; when dealing with politicians held to be acting against the interests of the people, Athenian juries could inflict very severe penalties such as death, unpayably large fines, confiscation of property, permanent exile and loss of citizens' rights through \"atimia\". Further, the elite Athenians who suffered ostracism were rich or noble men who had connections or \"xenoi\" in the wider Greek world and who, unlike genuine exiles, were able to access their income in Attica from abroad. In Plutarch, following as he does the anti-democratic line common in elite sources, the fact that people might be recalled early appears to be another example of the inconsistency of majoritarianism that was characteristic of Athenian democracy. However, ten years of exile usually resolved whatever had prompted the expulsion. Ostracism was simply a pragmatic measure; the concept of serving out the full sentence did not apply as it was a preventative measure, not a punitive one.\n\nOne curious window on the practicalities of ostracism comes from the cache of 190 ostraka discovered dumped in a well next to the acropolis. From the handwriting they appear to have been written by fourteen individuals and bear the name of Themistocles, ostracised before 471 BC and were evidently meant for distribution to voters. This was not necessarily evidence of electoral fraud (being no worse than modern voting instruction cards), but their being dumped in the well may suggest that their creators wished to hide them. If so, these ostraka provide an example of organized groups attempting to influence the outcome of ostracisms. The two-month gap between the first and second phases would have easily allowed for such a campaign.\n\nThere is another interpretation, however, according to which these ostraka were prepared beforehand by enterprising businessmen who offered to them for sale to citizens who could not easily inscribe the desired names for themselves or who simply wished to save time.\n\nThe two-month gap is a key feature in the institution, much as in elections under modern liberal democracies. It first prevented the candidate for expulsion being chosen out of immediate anger, although an Athenian general such as Cimon would have not wanted to lose a battle the week before such a second vote. Secondly, it opened up a period for discussion (or perhaps agitation), whether informally in daily talk or public speeches before the Athenian assembly or Athenian courts. In this process a consensus, or rival consensuses, might emerge. Further, in that time of waiting, ordinary Athenian citizens must have felt a certain power over the greatest members of their city; conversely, the most prominent citizens had an incentive to worry how their social inferiors regarded them.\n\nOstracism was not in use throughout the whole period of Athenian democracy (circa 506–322 BC), but only occurred in the fifth century BC. The standard account, found in Aristotle's Constitution of the Athenians 22.3, attributes the establishment to Cleisthenes, a pivotal reformer in the creation of the democracy. In that case ostracism would have been in place from around 506 BC. The first victim of the practice, however, was not expelled until 487 BC — nearly twenty years later. Over the course of the next sixty years some twelve or more individuals followed him. The list may not be complete, but there is good reason to believe the Athenians did not feel the need to eject someone in this way every year. The list of known ostracisms runs as follows:\n\n\nAround twelve thousand political ostraka have been excavated in the Athenian agora and in the Kerameikos. The second victim, Cleisthenes' nephew Megacles, is named by 4647 of these, but for a second undated ostracism not listed above. The known ostracisms seem to fall into three distinct phases: the 480s BC, mid-century 461–443 BC and finally the years 417–415: this matches fairly well with the clustering of known expulsions, although Themistocles before 471 may count as an exception. This suggests that ostracism fell in and out of fashion.\n\nThe last known ostracism was that of Hyperbolos in circa 417 BC. There is no sign of its use after the Peloponnesian War, when democracy was restored after the oligarchic coup of the Thirty had collapsed in 403 BC. However, while ostracism was not an active feature of the 4th-century version of democracy, it remained; the question was put to the assembly each year, but they did not wish to hold one.\n\nBecause ostracism was carried out by thousands of people over many decades of an evolving political situation and culture, it did not serve a single monolithic purpose. Observations can be made about the outcomes, as well as the initial purpose for which it was created.\n\nThe first rash of people ostracised in the decade after the defeat of the first Persian invasion at Marathon in 490 BC were all related or connected to the tyrant Peisistratos, who had controlled Athens for 36 years up to 527 BC. After his son Hippias was deposed with Spartan help in 510 BC, the family sought refuge with the Persians, and nearly twenty years later Hippias landed with their invasion force at Marathon. Tyranny and Persian aggression were paired threats facing the new democratic regime at Athens, and ostracism was used against both.\n\nTyranny and democracy had arisen at Athens out of clashes between regional and factional groups organised around politicians, including Cleisthenes. As a reaction, in many of its features the democracy strove to reduce the role of factions as the focus of citizen loyalties. Ostracism, too, may have been intended to work in the same direction: by temporarily decapitating a faction, it could help to defuse confrontations that threatened the order of the State.\n\nIn later decades when the threat of tyranny was remote, ostracism seems to have been used as a way to decide between radically opposed policies. For instance, in 443 BC Thucydides, son of Melesias (not to be confused with the historian of the same name) was ostracised. He led an aristocratic opposition to Athenian imperialism and in particular to Pericles' building program on the acropolis, which was funded by taxes created for the wars against the Achaemenid Empire. By expelling Thucydides the Athenian people sent a clear message about the direction of Athenian policy. Similar but more controversial claims have been made about the ostracism of Cimon in 461 BC.\n\nThe motives of individual voting citizens cannot, of course, be known. Many of the surviving ostraka name people otherwise unattested. They may well be just someone the submitter disliked, and voted for in moment of private spite. As such, it may be seen as a secular, civic variant of Athenian curse tablets, studied in scholarly literature under the Latin name \"defixiones\", where small dolls were wrapped in lead sheets written with curses and then buried, sometimes stuck through with nails for good measure.\n\nIn one anecdote about Aristides, known as \"the Just\", who was ostracised in 482, an illiterate citizen, not recognising him, came up to ask him to write the name Aristides on his ostrakon. When Aristides asked why, the man replied it was because he was sick of hearing him being called \"the Just\". Perhaps merely the sense that someone had become too arrogant or prominent was enough to get someone's name onto an ostrakon. Ostracism rituals could have also been an attempt to dissuade people from covertly committing murder or assassination for intolerable or emerging individuals of power so as to create an open arena or outlet for those harboring primal frustrations and urges or political motivations. The solution for murder, in Gregory H. Padowitz's theory, would then be \"ostracism\" which would ultimately be beneficial for all parties – the unfortunate individual would live and get a second chance and society would be spared the ugliness of feuds, civil war, political jams and murder.\n\nThe last ostracism, that of Hyperbolos in or near 417 BC, is elaborately narrated by Plutarch in three separate \"lives\": Hyperbolos is pictured urging the people to expel one of his rivals, but they, Nicias and Alcibiades, laying aside their own hostility for a moment, use their combined influence to have him ostracised instead. According to Plutarch, the people then become disgusted with ostracism and abandoned the procedure forever.\n\nIn part ostracism lapsed as a procedure at the end of the fifth century because it was replaced by the \"graphe paranomon\", a regular court action under which a much larger number of politicians might be targeted, instead of just one a year as with ostracism, and with greater severity. But it may already have come to seem like an anachronism as factional alliances organised around important men became increasingly less significant in the later period, and power was more specifically located in the interaction of the individual speaker with the power of the assembly and the courts. The threat to the democratic system in the late 5th century came not from tyranny but from oligarchic coups, threats of which became prominent after two brief seizures of power, in 411 BC by \"the Four Hundred\" and in 404 BC by \"the Thirty\", which were not dependent on single powerful individuals. Ostracism was not an effective defence against the oligarchic threat and it was not so used.\n\nOther cities are known to have set up forms of ostracism on the Athenian model, namely Megara, Miletos, Argos and Syracuse, Sicily. In the last of these it was referred to as \"petalismos\", because the names were written on olive leaves. Little is known about these institutions. Furthermore, pottery shards identified as \"ostraka\" have been found in Chersonesos Taurica, leading historians to the conclusion that a similar institution existed there as well, in spite of the silence of the ancient records on that count.\n\nA similar modern practice is the recall election, in which the electoral body removes its representation from an elected officer.\nUnlike under modern voting procedures, the Athenians did not have to adhere to a strict format for the inscribing of \"ostraka\". Many extant \"ostraka\" show that it was possible to write expletives, short epigrams or cryptic injunctions beside the name of the candidate without invalidating the vote. For example:\n\nThe social psychologist Kipling Williams has written extensively on ostracism as a modern phenomenon. Williams defines ostracism as \"any act or acts of ignoring and excluding of an individual or groups by an individual or a group\". Williams suggests that the most common form of ostracism in a modern context is refusing to communicate with a person. By refusing to communicate with a person, that person is effectively ignored and excluded. The advent of the internet has made ostracism much easier to engage in, and conversely much more difficult to detect, with Williams and others describing this online ostracism as \"cyberostracism\". In email communication, in particular, it is relatively easy for a person or organization to ignore and exclude a specific person, through simply refusing to communicate with the person. Karen Douglas thus describes \"unanswered emails\" as constituting a form of cyberostracism, and similarly Eric Wesselmann and Kipling Williams describe \"ignored emails\" as a form of cyberostracism.\n\nWilliams and his colleagues have charted responses to ostracism in some five thousand cases, and found two distinctive patterns of response. The first is increased group-conformity, in a quest for re-admittance; the second is to become more provocative and hostile to the group, seeking attention rather than acceptance.\n\nAs it researched as well by many social psychologists, (Williams, 2007) research has demonstrated that being rejected from groups can have profound effects on a person (Smith, E. R., Macki, D. M., & Claypool, H. M., (2014) social psychoogy. Psychology Press. p.409)\n\nResearch suggests that ostracism is a common reprisal strategy used by organizations in response to whistleblowing. Kipling Williams, in a survey on US whistleblowers, found that 100% reported post-whistleblowing ostracism. Alexander Brown similarly found that post-whistleblowing ostracism is a common response, and indeed describes ostracism as form of \"covert\" reprisal, as it is normally so difficult to identify and investigate.\n\nQahr and Ashti is a culture-specific Iranian form of personal shunning, most frequently of another family member. Qahr and ashti are described by Dr. Kambiz Behzadi as:\nWhile modern Western concepts of ostracism are based upon enforcing conformity within a societally-recognized group, Iranian Qahr is a private (batin), family-oriented affair of conflict or display of anger that is never disclosed to the public at large, as to do would be a breach of social etiquette.\n\nIn the Islamic Republic of Iran, the husband only has the right to show \"qahr\" towards his wife, the wife does not have this right to show qahr towards her husband, as the husband's family rank is that of Head of Household while the wife has a much lower family ranking. She may practice qahr only towards others of equal or lower status.\n\n\"Qahr\" is avoidance of a lower-ranking family member who has committed a perceived insult. It is one of several ritualized social customs of Iranian culture.\n\n\"Gozasht\", an Iranian word meaning 'tolerance, understanding and a desire or willingness to forgive' is an essential componant of Qahr and Ashti for both psychological needs of closure and cognition, as well as a culturally accepted source for practicing necessary religious requirements of \"tawbah\" \"(repentance, see Koran 2:222)\" and \"du'a\" (supplication).\n\n\n Oration IV of Andocides purports itself to be speech urging the ostracism of Alcibiades in 415 BC, but it is probably not authentic.\n\nFrom Aristotle Constitution of the Athenians:\n\nFrom Philochorus, \"Atthis\"\n\nFrom Plutarch's 'Lives':\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31057260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31057260", "title": "PRECEDE–PROCEED model", "text": "PRECEDE–PROCEED model\n\nThe PRECEDE–PROCEED model is a cost–benefit evaluation framework proposed in 1974 by Lawrence W. Green that can help health program planners, policy makers and other evaluators, analyze situations and design health programs efficiently. It provides a comprehensive structure for assessing health and quality of life needs, and for designing, implementing and evaluating health promotion and other public health programs to meet those needs. One purpose and guiding principle of the PRECEDE–PROCEED model is to direct initial attention to outcomes, rather than inputs. It guides planners through a process that starts with desired outcomes and then works backwards in the causal chain to identify a mix of strategies for achieving those objectives. A fundamental assumption of the model is the active participation of its intended audience — that is, that the participants (\"consumers\") will take an active part in defining their own problems, establishing their goals and developing their solutions.\n\nIn this framework, health behavior is regarded as being influenced by both individual and environmental factors, and hence has two distinct parts. First is an \"educational diagnosis\" – \"PRECEDE\", an acronym for Predisposing, Reinforcing and Enabling Constructs in Educational Diagnosis and Evaluation. Second is an \"ecological diagnosis\" – \"PROCEED\", for Policy, Regulatory, and Organizational Constructs in Educational and Environmental Development. The model is multidimensional and is founded in the social/behavioral sciences, epidemiology, administration, and education. The systematic use of the framework in a series of clinical and field trials confirmed the utility and predictive validity of the model as a planning tool.\n\nThe PRECEDE framework was first developed and introduced in the 1970s by Green and colleagues. PRECEDE is based on the premise that, just as a medical diagnosis precedes a treatment plan, an educational diagnosis of the problem is very essential before developing and implementing the intervention plan. Predisposing factors include knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, personal preferences, existing skills, and self-efficacy towards the desired behavior change. Reinforcing factors include factors that reward or reinforce the desired behavior change, including social support, economic rewards, and changing social norms. Enabling factors are skills or physical factors such as availability and accessibility of resources, or services that facilitate achievement of motivation to change behavior. The model has led to more than 1000 published studies, applications and commentaries on the model in the professional and scientific literature.\n\nIn the early 1990s the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC, US Department of Health and Human Services) gave additional national prominence to the PRECEDE model. Dr. Marshall Kreuter, Director of the Division of Chronic Disease Control and Community Intervention and his staff adapted and incorporated PRECEDE within a model planning process offered, with federal technical assistance, to state and local health departments to plan and evaluate health promotion programs (with their coalitions). The CDC model was called \"PATCH\", for Planned Approach to Community Health. The relevance of this initiative to the application of PRECEDE, and the inspiration for some of the extensions of the (PATCH) model to incorporate PROCEED dimensions was detailed in a special issue of the Journal of Health Education in 1992.\n\nIn 1991, \"PROCEED\" was added to the framework in consideration of the growing recognition of the expansion of health education to encompass policy, regulatory and related ecological/environmental factors, in determining health and health behaviors. As health-related behaviors, such as smoking and alcohol abuse, increased or became more resistant to change, so did the recognition that these behaviors are influenced by factors such as the media, politics, and businesses, which are outside the direct control of the individuals. Hence more \"ecological\" methods were needed to identify and influence these environmental and social determinants of health behaviors. With the emergence of and rapid growth in the field of genetics, the PRECEDE–PROCEED model was revised, in 2005, to include and address the growing knowledge in this field.\n\nThe PRECEDE–PROCEED planning model consists of four planning phases, one implementation phase, and 3 evaluation phases.\n\nThe first stage in the program planning phase deals with identifying and evaluating the social problems that affect the quality of life of a population of interest. Social assessment is the \"application, through broad participation, of multiple sources of information, both objective and subjective, designed to expand the mutual understanding of people regarding their aspirations for the common good\". During this stage, the program planners try to gain an understanding of the social problems that affect the quality of life of the community and its members, their strengths, weaknesses, and resources; and their readiness to change. This is done through various activities such as developing a planning committee, holding community forums, and conducting focus groups, surveys, and/or interviews. These activities will engage the beneficiaries in the planning process and planners will be able to see the issues just as the community sees them.\n\n\"Epidemiological diagnosis\" deals with determining and focusing on specific health issue(s) of the community, and the behavioral and environmental factors related to prioritized health needs of the community. Based on these priorities, achievable program goals and objectives for the program being developed are established. Epidemiological assessment may include secondary data analysis or original data collection — examples of epidemiological data include vital statistics, state and national health surveys, medical and administrative records, etc. Genetic factors, although not directly changeable through a health promotion program, are becoming increasingly important in understanding health problems and counseling people with genetic risks, or may be useful in identifying high-risk groups for intervention.\n\n\"Behavioral diagnosis\" — This is the analysis of behavioral links to the goals or problems that are identified in the social or epidemiological diagnosis. The behavioral ascertainment of a health issue is understood, firstly, through those behaviors that exemplify the severity of the disease (e.g. tobacco use among teenagers); secondly, through the behavior of the individuals who directly affect the individual at risk (e.g. parents of teenagers who keep cigarettes at home); and thirdly, through the actions of the decision-makers that affects the environment of the individuals at risk (e.g. law enforcement actions that restrict teens' access to cigarettes). Once behavioral diagnosis is completed for each health problem identified, the planner is able to develop more specific and effective interventions.\n\n\"Environmental diagnosis\" — This is a parallel analysis of social and physical environmental factors other than specific actions that could be linked to behaviors. In this assessment, environmental factors beyond the control of the individual are modified to influence the health outcome. For example, poor nutritional status among children may be due to the availability of unhealthful foods in school. This may require not only educational interventions, but also additional strategies such as influencing the behaviors of a school's food service managers.\n\nOnce the behavioral and environmental factors are identified and interventions selected, planners can start to work on selecting factors that, if modified, will most likely result in behavior change, as well as sustain it. These factors are classified as 1) predisposing, 2) enabling, and 3) reinforcing factors.\n\n\"Predisposing factors\" are any characteristics of a person or population that motivate behavior prior to or during the occurrence of that behavior. They include an individual's knowledge, beliefs, values, and attitudes.\n\n\"Enabling factors\" are those characteristics of the environment that facilitate action and any skill or resource required to attain specific behavior. They include programs, services, availability and accessibility of resources, or new skills required to enable behavior change.\n\n\"Reinforcing factors\" are rewards or punishments following or anticipated as a consequence of a behavior. They serve to strengthen the motivation for a behavior. Some of the reinforcing factors include social support, peer support, etc.\n\nThis phase focuses on the administrative and organizational concerns that must be addressed prior to program implementation. This includes assessment of resources, development and allocation of budgets, looking at organizational barriers, and coordination of the program with other departments, including external organizations and the community.\n\n\"Administrative diagnosis\" assesses policies, resources, circumstances and prevailing organizational situations that could hinder or facilitate the development of the health program.\n\n\"Policy diagnosis\" assesses the compatibility of program goals and objectives with those of the organization and its administration. This evaluates whether program goals fit into the mission statements, rules and regulations that are needed for the implementation and sustainability of the program.\n\nThis phase is used to evaluate the process by which the program is being implemented. This phase determines whether the program is being implemented according to the protocol, and determines whether the objectives of the program are being met. It also helps identify modifications that may be needed to improve the program.\n\nThis phase measures the effectiveness of the program with regards to the intermediate objectives as well as the changes in predisposing, enabling, and reinforcing factors. Often this phase is used to evaluate the performance of educators.\n\nThis phase measures change in terms of overall objectives as well as changes in health and social benefits or quality of life. That is, it determines the effect of the program in the health and quality of life of the community.\n\nThe PRECEDE–PROCEED model is a participatory model for creating successful community health promotion and other public health interventions. It is based on the premise that behavior change is by and large voluntary, and that health programs are more likely to be effective if they are planned and evaluated with the active participation of those who will implement them, and those who are affected by them. Thus, it looks at health and other issues within the context of the community. Interventions designed for behavior change to prevent injuries and violence, to improve heart health, and to improve and increase scholarly productivity among health education faculty, are among more than 1000 published applications developed or evaluated using the PRECEDE–PROCEED model as a guideline.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30240067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30240067", "title": "Peace Dove (Sumgayit)", "text": "Peace Dove (Sumgayit)\n\nPeace Dove () is an allegorical sculpture in Nasimi Culture and Leisure Park in Sumgayit, Azerbaijan. The \"Peace Dove\" is the symbol of Sumgayit.\n\nThe monument was designed by the Chief Artist of Sumgayit Vagif Nazirov and architect A. Guliyev. It is made of solid concrete. It was raised in 1978 as a symbol of peace in a newly functioning public park on coastline city of Sumgayit.\n\nIn 2008, the monument and the whole park went through an extensive renovation works.\n"}
{"id": "31014231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31014231", "title": "Petar Čobanković", "text": "Petar Čobanković\n\nPetar Čobanković (29 January 1957) is a former Croatian politician who served as Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management.\n\nČobanković finished elementary and high school in Ilok, after that he attended Faculty of Agriculture at University of Zagreb where he obtained his B.Sc. in agriculture. From 2000 until 2001 he was Prefect of Vukovar-Srijem County. Between 2003 and 2008 he was the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management in the Cabinet of Ivo Sanader I. On January 12, 2008 he was named Minister of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management in the Cabinet of Ivo Sanader II. In 2010 he became deputy-prime minister of Government of Croatia in the Cabinet of Jadranka Kosor.\n\nČobanković pleaded guilty and he was sentenced in March 2013 to one year in jail for corruption. The sentence was consequently reduced to a community sentence in an exchange for full cooperation with the prosecutor in the corruption case against the former Croatian premier Ivo Sanader.\n"}
{"id": "6674711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674711", "title": "Pierre Mulele", "text": "Pierre Mulele\n\nPierre Mulele (11 August 1929 – 3 or 9 October 1968) was a Congolese rebel active in the Simba Rebellion of 1964. Mulele had also been minister of education in Patrice Lumumba's cabinet. With the assassination of Lumumba in January 1961 and the arrest of his recognised deputy Antoine Gizenga one year later, Mulele became one of the top Lumumbists determined to continue the struggle. He went to Cairo, Egypt, as the representative of the Lumumbists' Congo National Liberation Committee based in Brazzaville. From Cairo he proceeded to China in 1963 to receive military training, and also took a group of Congolese youths with him, who received training in guerrilla tactics. He was a member of the Bapende ethnic group.\n\nIn January 1964, a new conflict broke out as Congolese rebels calling themselves \"Simba\" (Swahili for \"lion\") rebelled against the government. They were led by Mulele, Gaston Soumialot and Christophe Gbenye, former members of Antoine Gizenga's Parti Solidaire Africain (PSA). \n\nDuring the Simba Rebellion, Mulele, who had previously undergone training in the Eastern bloc as well as the People's Republic of China, led a Maoist faction in the Kwilu District. This came to be known as the Kwilu Rebellion. Mulele was an avowed Maoist, and for this reason his insurgency was supported by communist China. By the end of April 1964, Mulele's rebellion had been rendered somewhat less dangerous by the government. The USSR, with an embassy in the national capital of Leopoldville, did not support Mulele's Kwilu revolt and had no part in its preparation: lack of support from the Soviets was in the first place responsible for Mulele turning to China as his patron.\n\nNonetheless, by August the Simba insurgents had captured Stanleyville and set up a rebel government there. However, the Congolese central government requested foreign intervention, and the troops fighting under the command of Soumialot and Gbenye were routed in November 1964, after intense drives by central government troops officered by foreign mercenaries. The landing of Belgian paratroopers in Stanleyville also proved instrumental in the rebels' defeat, as did key military assistance from the United States. On 24 November 1964, five US Air Force C-130 transports dropped 350 Belgian paratroopers of the Para-Commando Regiment onto the airfield at Stanleyville to rescue 2,000 European civilians being held hostage by the Simbas. This move made the United States very unpopular in Africa at the time. After the rebellion's defeat, Mulele fled into exile in Congo-Brazzaville. \n\nIn 1968, then-President Joseph-Désiré Mobutu (later Mobutu Sese Seko) lured Mulele out of exile by promising him amnesty. Mulele returned to Congo-Kinshasa, believing he would be granted amnesty. Instead, he was publicly tortured and executed: his eyes were pulled from their sockets, his genitals were ripped off, and his limbs were amputated one by one, all while he was alive. What was left was dumped in the Congo River.\n\nWhen the Kwilu rebellion broke out in 1964, the revolt was led by Mulele in a way reminiscent of the Chinese communist revolutionary tactics during the Chinese Civil War. Mulele required his fighters to adhere to a very strict moral code, emphasising self-discipline and respect for civilians. The tribal peasant fighters proved difficult to control and many disregarded Mulele's orders. The eight instructions on conduct Mulele issued to his guerrilla fighters showed the great influence Mao Zedong's writings regarding \"people's war\" had on the Kwilu insurgency. Mulele's code of conduct was as follows:\nThe attempt to adapt Maoist Chinese practice to African conditions also extended to Mulele's use of the peasants as the mainstay of his revolution.\n\nMulele was born in Isulu-Matende. He married Leonie Abo, a fellow fighter who spent five years in the underground rebel movement alongside guerrillas loyal to Mulele. In 1968, after her husband's assassination, she fled to Congo-Brazzaville where she has since lived. Abo has made a great effort to preserve the memory of her slain revolutionary husband, Pierre Mulele. The Belgian book \"Une Femme du Congo\" (\"A Congolese Woman\"), by Ludo Martens, tells Abo's life story.\n\n"}
{"id": "165754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165754", "title": "Pork barrel", "text": "Pork barrel\n\nPork barrel is a metaphor for the appropriation of government spending for localized projects secured solely or primarily to bring money to a representative's district. The usage originated in American English. In election campaigns, the term is used in derogatory fashion to attack opponents. However, scholars use it as a technical term regarding legislative control of local appropriations.\n\nThe term \"pork barrel politics\" usually refers to spending which is intended to benefit constituents of a politician in return for their political support, either in the form of campaign contributions or votes. In the popular 1863 story \"The Children of the Public\", Edward Everett Hale used the term \"pork barrel\" as a homely metaphor for any form of public spending to the citizenry. However, after the American Civil War, the term came to be used in a derogatory sense. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" dates the modern sense of the term from 1873. \n\nPork barrel originally came from storing meat. By the 1870s, references to \"pork\" were common in Congress, and the term was further popularized by a 1919 article by Chester Collins Maxey in the \"National Municipal Review\", which reported on certain legislative acts known to members of Congress as \"pork barrel bills\". He claimed that the phrase originated in a pre-Civil War practice of giving slaves a barrel of salt pork as a reward and requiring them to compete among themselves to get their share of the handout.\nMore generally, a barrel of salt pork was a common larder item in 19th century households, and could be used as a measure of the family's financial well-being. For example, in his 1845 novel \"The Chainbearer\", James Fenimore Cooper wrote: \"I hold a family to be in a desperate way, when the mother can see the bottom of the pork barrel.\"\n\nTypically, \"pork\" involves funding for government programs whose economic or service benefits are concentrated in a particular area but whose costs are spread among all taxpayers. Public works projects, certain national defense spending projects, and agricultural subsidies are the most commonly cited examples.\n\nCitizens Against Government Waste outlines seven criteria by which spending can be classified as \"pork\":\n\nAn early example of pork barrel politics in the United States was the Bonus Bill of 1817, which was introduced by Democrat John C. Calhoun to construct highways linking the Eastern and Southern United States to its Western frontier using the earnings bonus from the Second Bank of the United States. Calhoun argued for it using general welfare and post roads clauses of the United States Constitution. Although he approved of the economic development goal, President James Madison vetoed the bill as unconstitutional.\n\nOne of the most famous alleged pork-barrel projects was the Big Dig in Boston, Massachusetts. The Big Dig was a project to relocate an existing section of the interstate highway system underground. The official planning phase started in 1982; the construction work was done between 1991 and 2006; and the project concluded on December 31, 2007. It ended up costing US$14.6 billion, or over US$4 billion per mile. Tip O'Neill (D-Mass), after whom one of the Big Dig tunnels was named, pushed to have the Big Dig funded by the federal government while he was the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives.\n\nDuring the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign, the Gravina Island Bridge (also known as the \"Bridge to Nowhere\") in Alaska was cited as an example of pork barrel spending. The bridge, pushed for by Republican Senator Ted Stevens, was projected to cost $398 million and would connect the island's 50 residents and the Ketchikan International Airport to Revillagigedo Island and Ketchikan.\n\nFormer Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye described himself as “the No. 1 earmarks guy in the U.S. Congress.” Inouye regularly passed earmarks for funding in the state of Hawaii including military and transportation spending.\n\nPork-barrel projects, which differ from \"earmarks\", are added to the federal budget by members of the appropriation committees of United States Congress. This allows delivery of federal funds to the local district or state of the appropriation committee member, often accommodating major campaign contributors. To a certain extent, a member of Congress is judged by their ability to deliver funds to their constituents. The Chairman and the ranking member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations are in a position to deliver significant benefits to their states. Researchers Anthony Fowler and Andrew B. Hall claim that this still does not account for the high reelection rates of incumbent representatives in American legislatures.\n\nThe Madrid-Seville high-speed line was a noted example of pork barrel politics in Spain. Pasqual Maragall revealed details of an unwritten agreement between him and Felipe Gonzalez, the prime minister at the time who was from Seville. The agreement was that Barcelona would receive the 1992 Summer Olympics and Seville would receive the high-speed railway line (which opened in 1992). This was in spite of position of the Madrid-Barcelona high-speed rail line as Spain's most profitable high-speed line. Barcelona received its AVE connection in 2008, though with many advantages that the line to Seville does not have, e.g. full-speed bypasses LAV Madrid – Sevilla and LAV Madrid – Zaragoza – Barcelona: the decision to construct the line to Seville was only taken in 1986 and construction was rushed, so that the line would be ready for the Seville Expo '92.\n\nIn other countries, the practice is often called patronage, but this word does not always imply corrupt or undesirable conduct.\n\n\"Pork barrel\" is frequently used in Australian politics, where marginal seats are often accused of receiving more funding than safe seats or, in the case of the 2010 election in negotiations with key independents.\n\nRomanians speak of ' (literally, \"electoral alms\"), while the Polish ' means literally \"election sausage\". In Serbian, ' (\"cutting the cake\") refers to post-electoral distribution of state-funded positions for the loyal members of the winning party. The Czech ' (\"pre-election goulash\") has similar meaning, referring to free dishes of goulash served to potential voters during election campaign meetings targeted at lower social classes; metaphorically, it stands for any populistic political decisions that are taken before the elections with the aim of obtaining more votes. The process of diverting budget funds in favor of a project in a particular constituency is called \"\" (\"portioning of the bear\") in Czech usage.\n\nIn India, the term \"pork barrel politics\" has been employed to depict the pattern of distribution of discretionary grants by the national government (see for example Arulampalam et al. 2009) Biswas et al. 2010; Rodden and Wilkinson 2004; Sharma, 2017. The latest contribution by Sharma demonstrates that the incentives of the Prime Minister's party under a coalition system create a universalisation effect which means \"giving something to everyone\". Thus, the states governed by non-affiliated parties do not suffer as much as in the dominant party era. In fact, a coalition party system limits opportunities to reward party loyalty (see Sharma 2017).\n\nThe term \"parish pump politics\" is more commonly used in Ireland although Independent TD Shane Ross did refer to Pork Barrel politics at a press conference for the Independent Alliance in the run up to the 2016 General Election, saying that the Alliance was \"not interested in \"pork barrel\" politics\". Despite being appointed Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport in the 32nd Dáil he went on to prioritise the reopening of a police station in his own constituency which was eventually delivered on the eve of the election of new Taoiseach Leo Varadkar in June 2017.\n\nThe German language differentiates between campaign goodies (\"Wahlgeschenke\", literally \"election gifts\") to occur around election dates and parish-pump politics (\"Kirchturmpolitik\", literally \"church tower politics\") for concentrating funding and reliefs to the home constituency of a politician. While the former is a technical term (neutral or slightly derogatory) the latter is always derogatory meaning that the scope of actions is limited to an area where the steeple of the politician's village can still be seen. In Switzerland the wording of provincial thinking (\"Kantönligeist\", literally \"cantonal mind\") may cover these actions as well and it is understood as a synonym in Germany and Austria.\n\nIn the Philippines, the term \"pork barrel\" is used to mean funds allocated to the members of the Philippine House of Representatives and the Philippine Senate to spend as they see fit without going through the normal budgetary process or through the Executive Branch. It can be used for both \"hard\" projects, such as buildings and roads, and \"soft\" projects, such as scholarships and medical expenses. The first pork barrel fund was introduced in 1922 with the passage of the first Public Works Act (Act No 3044). This pork barrel system was technically stopped by President Ferdinand Marcos during his dictatorship by abolishing Congress. It was reintroduced to the system after the restoration of the Congress in 1987. The program has had different names over the years, including the Countryside Development Fund, Congressional Initiative Fund, and currently the Priority Development Assistance Fund. Since 2006, the PDAF was ₱70.0 M for each Representative and ₱200.0 M for each Senator.\n\nDuring the presidency of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, PDAF became the biggest source of corruption among the legislators. Kickbacks were common and became syndicated—using pre-identified project implementers including government agencies, contractors and bogus non-profit corporations as well as the government's Commission on Audit.\n\nIn August 2013, outrage over the ₱10 B Priority Development Assistance Fund scam, involving Janet Lim-Napoles and numerous Senators and Representatives, led to widespread calls for abolition of the PDAF system. The so-called Million People March which occurred on August 26, 2013, National Heroes' Day in the Philippines, called for the end of \"pork barrel\" and was joined by simultaneous protests nationwide and by the Filipino diaspora around the world.\n\nPetitioners have challenged the constitutionality of the PDAF before the high court following reports of its widespread and systematic misuse by some members of Congress in cahoots with private individuals. Three incumbent senators and several former members of the House of Representatives have been named respondents in a plunder complaint filed with the Office of the Ombudsman in connection with the alleged P10-billion pork barrel scam. Public outrage over the anomaly has resulted in the largest protest gathering under the three-year-old Aquino administration.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, the Supreme Court declared the controversial Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF), or more commonly known as the pork barrel, as unconstitutional. In a briefing, the high court declared the PDAF Article in 2013 General Approriations Act and all similar provisions on the pork barrel system as illegal because it \"allowed legislators to wield, in varying gradiations, non-oversight, post-enactment authority in vital areas of budget executions (thus violating) the principle of separation of powers\".\n\nSimilar expressions, meaning \"election meat\", are used in Danish ('), Swedish (') and Norwegian (\"\"), where they mean promises made \"before\" an election, often by a politician who has little intention of fulfilling them.\nThe Finnish political jargon uses \"\" (culvert politics) in reference to national politicians concentrating on small local matters, such as construction of roads and other public works at politician's home municipality. In Iceland, the term \"kjördæmapot\" refers to the practice of funneling public funds to key voting demographics in marginal constituencies.\n\nThe term is rarely used in British English, although similar terms exist: election sweetener, tax sweetener, or just sweetener which refers to the practise of a chancellor of the exchequer leaving room in their fiscal program to announce a big tax cut or spending boost in the budget immediately prior to an election, usually targeting a key voting demographic (such as the elderly) or benefitting marginal constituencies. The term \"pork barrel\" was, however, used in August 2013 by the Campaign for Better Transport in their criticism of Danny Alexander MP's involvement in securing funding for the A6 Manchester Airport Relief Road which passed through a marginal Liberal Democrat constituency. It was also used by Pete Wishart in the House of Commons on 26 June 2017 in reference to the deal between the Conservative Party and the Democratic Unionist Party to keep the former in power.\n\n"}
{"id": "43087289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43087289", "title": "Ramón Massó Tarruella", "text": "Ramón Massó Tarruella\n\nRamón Massó Tarruella (1928 - 2017) was a Spanish media and communications expert and a former Carlist politician.\n\nRamón Massó Tarruella was born to an established, much branched and well-to-do Catalan bourgeoisie family. His grandfather, Ramón Massó Marcer, originated from the small seaside town of Sant Pere de Ribes. In 1885, during rapid expansion of the Catalan clothing manufacturing, he moved to Barcelona to set up his own business; he started a company specializing in dyes for the textile industry (his cousin, Ramón Oliveras Massó, became an academic and taught chemistry in the Barcelona-based Escuela de Ingenieros Industriales until 1936). His son, Juan Massó Soler, entered the family business in 1912 and developed it into a successful chemical company. Member of many Catalan commercial and trade institutions, he married Nuria Tarruella Riu.\n\nThe couple had 8 children, 3 sons (José Luis, Ramón, Juan Antonio) and 5 daughters (Montserrat, Isabel, Maria Amelia, Pilar and Nuria), all raised in a profoundly Catholic and traditional ambience. In the 1950s José Luis and Juan Antonio got engaged in the family company and later turned it into Comercial Química Massó Sociedad Anónima, which expanded into new market sectors and remains active until today. In the early 1960s Juan Antonio left the family enterprise and commenced studying canon law, ordained as a priest in 1965; following his transfer to Australia he later became head (Regional Vicar) of Opus Dei there, the position retained until his death.\n\nAs a child Ramón together with his family fled Barcelona, the city which fell under the anarchist control during the first months of the Civil War. The family settled in San Sebastián in the nationalist zone. The Massó boys joined Pelayos, the Carlist organization for older children animated mostly by the Catalan emigrees, but terminated their engagement following of the Carlist and Falangist juvenile organizations; as a kid Massó took part in the 1937 anti-unification demonstrations, allegedly shouting \"death to Franco\" and \"death to Falange\". Following the end of hostilities the family returned to Barcelona, where Ramón together with his brothers became a teenage member of the Catalan Opus Dei.\n\nIn late 1940s Massó moved to Madrid studying Filosofia y Letras to graduate in Philosophy (later he became also Técnico en Publicidad). During his university years he joined Agrupación de Estudiantes Tradicionalistas, a technically illegal though tolerated Carlist student organization. Enraged by increasing marginalization of Carlism within the political realm of the regime he developed his childish anti-Falangist sentiments into a firm anti-Francoist outlook. Engaged in leafleting campaigns and skirmishes against the official organization, in 1954 Massó (recommended by the Carlist political leader Manuel Fal Conde) grew to the position of Delegado Nacional of AET.\n\nMassó was increasingly disappointed by the perceived somnolent atmosphere of the movement's circulos, with the older generation trapped in recollections of the long gone days of glory. Highly emotional semi-clandestine 1956 attempts to dissuade the Carlist claimant from a would-be dynastical union with the \"Alfonsinos\" and to inspire him towards a decisive policy proved unsuccessful. The Massó-led \"aetistas\", upset with the diffident Don Javier, decided to focus on his eldest son Carlos Hugo, with whom the group found common ground during his brief stay in Madrid en route to Portugal in 1955.\nCarlos Hugo, at that time a French citizen completing PhD in economics in Oxford, threw himself into the Spanish politics in liaison with Massó and his team. Following half a year spent quietly in Bilbao on improving his castellano and learning Spanish politics (his key tutor Massó just commenced teaching at the local Colegio Gaztelueta), the prince made a public debut during the annual Carlist amassment at Montejurra in May 1957. The entry, repeatedly rehearsed, meticulously planned and pre-agreed with the Carlist leadership, turned out to be a masterpiece of public appearance. The unexpected prince's presentation generated exploding enthusiasm of the crowd, excited by youth, optimism and royal firmness of the speaker (though the lecture contained only one reference to God and included phrases sounding like an offer to Franco). Massó and his team ensured that \"La Proclama de Montejurra\" gets propagated in the Carlist circulos across Spain. In 1958 Carlos Hugo's speech – again carefully crafted by the prince, Massó and the team – called for profound change, put social issues on the forefront and contained a positive reference to Franco. During the following years the snowballing attendance at Montejurra transformed it from a Carlist-flavored local \"Via Crucis\" to the largest (save official, religious and football gatherings) public amassment in Francoist Spain. \n\nThe emergence of Carlos Hugo and the \"hugocarlistas\" coincided with the overall change in the Carlist strategy towards Francoism; in 1955 the intransigent Fal Conde was replaced as the movement's leader by a collective governing body, which initiated a new collaborative policy. Tactically Massó also opted for limited collaboration with Francoism (which cost him AET leadership in 1957), judging that gaining room for action is vital for his further aims. However, while the new Carlist leader José María Valiente sincerely hoped for some sort of prudent partnership between Francoism and Carlism, Massó aimed at dismantling the regime from within. Moreover, while Valiente oriented himself towards the army and bureaucracy, the hugocarlistas approached the hardcore syndicalist Falange sector, likewise promoting new social order and disdainful towards greedy capitalism.\n\nThe collaborative approach appeared to work: in the early 1960s the Carlists were granted a few media and organizational concessions. The \"hugocarlistas\" benefited the most, opening a number of new periodicals turned into their ideological tribunes (mostly \"Azada y asta\" and \"Montejurra\"), galvanizing the chain of Círculos Culturales Vázquez de Mella and launching their own workers' organization, MOT, all of them becoming later dissemination channels of their political vision.\n\nAs Carlos Hugo moved to Madrid he organized the young collaborators, dubbed \"camarilla\" and headed by Massó, into his Secretaría Política. The partnership of the old and the young leaders seemed smooth, though some of the former started suspecting the latter of dangerously Leftist ideas. Backed by the aging claimant the \"hugocarlistas\" assumed more powers as the newly established Junta de Gobierno diluted the authority of Valiente. Massó outplayed the chief opponent, José Luis Zamanillo, marginalized him in 1962–1963 and finally got him expelled early 1964. From this moment on the \"hugocarlistas\" spelled out their vision of Carlism more openly; the same year they published \"Esquema doctrinal\", a lecture which avoided open challenge to Francoism and presented a monarchist corporative political organization combined with anti-capitalist and democratic principles. During the 1965 Montejurra the \"hugocarlistas\" voiced their praise of socialism and even Marxism at unprecedented levels.\n\nIt is not clear whether Massó intended to instaurate the Carlist dynasty by means of new social mobilization or he tried to promote profound transformation using Carlos Hugo as an agent of change; anyway, the two threads became intertwined. The immediate political objective of Massó was to prevent the Alfonsist restoration. The young Carlists dogged the \"juanista niño\", boycotting or jeering Juan Carlos; they publicly humiliated the royal prince and his wife a few times. At the same time, Massó engineered a campaign to promote Carlos Hugo across the country. The operation revealed much understanding of the media role in the consumer society, as it exploited common tabloid threads and kept feeding the press with new scoops (the prince as a miner in Asturias, at a parachute course, at Sanfermines) and taking advantage of charm and youth of the prince's three sisters. The efforts proved fairly successful, as in the tightly censured media the Borbon-Parmas gained sort of nationwide positive recognition.\n\nThe greatest scoop came in 1964, when Carlos Hugo married princess Irene of the Netherlands. At this point, however, the regime propaganda machine was firmly ordered to backtrack. Franco, though personally delighted that the Dutch royal family (one of the harshest critics of his regime) was publicly humiliated by a Spanish royal hopeful, grew increasingly anxious that the popularity of Carlos Hugo might get him cornered when it comes to an inescapable dynastical decision. Despite wide TV coverage across Western Europe the Spanish media played down the event, which marked hard limits of Massó's strategy and got him bitterly disappointed.\n\nIn mid-1960s Massó realized that his strategy had failed; moreover, he realized that Leftist phraseology (with \"socialismo\" and \"autogestión\" most prominent catchwords) had divided and debilitated Carlism. In 1965 he loosened his ties with Carlos Hugo by moving from Madrid to Pamplona, where he commenced teaching at the Opus Dei university. As opposition against his influence mounted from the orthodox Traditionalist camp of Valiente and from the militantly Leftist group of José de Zavala, in 1966 Massó ceased as head of Secretaría Política; in 1967 he and some of his collaborators handed their resignations and withdrew from politics. He remained loosely related to Carlism, e.g. shortly before death taking part in historical conference,\n\nIn late 1960s Massó settled in Pamplona, working as an academic teacher at Instituto de Estudios Superiores de la Empresa (IESE), a prestigious business school founded by Opus Dei back in 1958. It was there that he completed the Alta Dirección curriculum himself, a holistic leadership program offered to top corporate managers. Finally disillusioned with Opus Dei and with its role during the process of installing Juan Carlos as the future king of Spain, Massó broke with the organization and moved to Barcelona. In his native city he joined Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona (UAB), where he became \"catedratico\" in Departamento de publicidad at the Facultad de Ciencias de la Información.\n\nMassó's small booklet \"Estrategia para unas extrañas elecciones\" (1977) earned him local media recognition and triggered co-operation with \"La Vanguardia\"; he became its key politics and public affairs commentator (until 1984). Massó experienced most of the Spanish transition to democracy not as a protagonist but as a witness, periodically having a regular column in the Sunday issue. As a press pundit he was careful to remain within the limits of political science and styled himself as an unbiased scholarly observer, though his hostility to Francoism and support for reforms remained evident. In general opposed to sectarian politics, he occasionally kept referring to Lenin as a political authority. His commentary suggested also that Massó sort of put up with the royal function of Juan Carlos and with his role in the Spanish transition. In late 1970s together with his former Carlist collaborator José Antonio Parilla he engaged in the Nono Art publishing house and co-ordinated work on a popular series \"Breu História de Catalunya\" (1979–81).\n\nIn mid-1970s Massó co-founded Alas, one of the first media agencies in Spain and became head of its Barcelona branch. About the same time he launched the term \"politing\", intended as a merger of \"politics\" and \"marketing\" and meant as a specialized knowledge (if not a science itself) on the crossroads of social sciences, public relations and politics. His work \"Introducción al “politing”. Lanzamiento de un aspirante\" (1976), apart from gaining official prizes (Premio Markedit, Premio Instituto Nacional de Publicidad), generated also significant interest among the academics, politicians and commentators. The book was formatted as a systematic theoretical lecture on the basics of political marketing, though it contained many explicit and implicit references to the 1957–1967 political experiences of the author. Relative success of launching Carlos Hugo became one of Masso's key credentials as a scholar in public relations and as a businessman running commercial (he claims authorship of La Caixa brand) and social (e.g. cancer awareness) media campaigns. He followed with another book, \"De la magia a la artesanía: el politing del cambio español\" (1980), becoming a nationwide recognised scholar and giving courses organised by Sociedad Española de Anunciantes, Instituto Nacional de Publicidad or Escuela Oficial de Radio y Television.\n\nIn the 1990s Massó switched his focus to media with \"El exito de la cultura light: Anuncios y noticias\" (1993) and \"Noticias frente a hechos: Entender la realidad despues de leer los periodicos\" (1997). Later on he broadened his interest into the wider realm of public communication, focusing on combined multidimensional holistic forms and channels of information exchange named \"integral communication\". He co-founded the Barcelona-based Institut de Comunicació Integral, an independent college specializing in marketing, brand communications and public relations, and became its president. ICOMI turned out to be a commercial (though not necessarily scientific) success and became a fashionable educational institute (incorporated into Universidad Abad Oliva CEU in 2003). During the last decade Massó published successive books on culture, communications and politics: \"Otro rey para España: crónica del lanzamiento y fracaso de Carlos Hugo\" (2004), \"Los últimos días de la Telecracia\" (with Enrique Nebot, 2009), \"Nacimiento y muerte de las marcas\" (with Joaquín García-Lavernia Gil, 2010), \"Navegando por el cachondeo de la historia\" (2012) and even a children's book, \"La segunda vida de Don Jos Kintana\" (1999). He maintaied Twitter and Facebook accounts, scarcely active during last years of his life.\n\nIn the 1990s, looking back on his political past, Massó admitted defeat at the hands of a competitive group of Machiavellian players coming from the same Opus Dei hotbed (especially López Rodó), who outplayed him by dismantling Francoism with technocratic strategy and with Juan Carlos as a better marketed and better designed version of Carlos Hugo. He denied charges that he had implanted Marxism within the Carlist realm; he rather pointed to the Juan Vázquez de Mella heritage, based on \"sociedalismo\" and the concept of .\nIn historiography Massó remains a rather divisive and ambiguous figure, with little agreement as to his role and intentions. Some historians (Payne, Bartyzel) maintain that he unleashed forces which either destroyed Carlism or turned it into its own antinomy. Some historians (Clemente, Martorell Pérez) claim that he helped to safeguard Carlist identity or at least contributed to emphasizing genuine Carlism and sidetracking its accidental threads. Some historians (MacClancy, Caspistegui Gorasurreta) suggest that he commenced the process of redirecting Carlism from traditional and orthodox path to a new formula. Some historians (Perez-Nievas) do not consider Massó worth mentioning and present de Zavala as the leader of the group.\n\nAccording to one group of studies (Martorell Pérez, MacClancy) Massó was primarily motivated by dynastical objectives, according to another (Clemente) he was not a monarchist at all. There are scholars (Bartyzel) who consider him a radical Leftist approximate to Marxism, there are others (Clemente) who consider him a \"neocapitalist technocrat\". Certain works (Martorell Pérez, in line with Masso's own later narration) present Carlos Hugo as a politician invented and created by Massó, certain works (Clemente) present Massó as Carlos Hugo's sidekick, useful at one political phase and to be replaced at the following one. Massó's departure from politics is explained by failure of his policy (Martorell Pérez), by Carlos Hugo's decision to replace him (Clemente), by his alleged falling in love with one of Carlos Hugo's sisters (Fraga), by pressure from Opus Dei (Lavardín), by combined efforts of enemies from the Right like Valiente and from the Left like de Zavala (Pérez Madrigal) or by pure greed (Zabala).\n\nOne thing most historians agree on is that Massó proved instrumental in dismantling Traditionalist Carlism (though they do not agree whether a non-Traditionalist Carlism can actually exist). None of the currently operating Carlist grouplets admits deference to Massó. Traditionalists (carloctavistas, sixtinos, ) tend to view him as a turncoat, the progressives (Partido Carlista, javierocarlistas) tend to view him as merely a former .\n\nBefore death he dedicated his future corpse to scientific research, and hence there was no funeral arranged and there is no grave. His death was acknowledged on few websites related to Partido Carlista, though not by major Spanish media.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31584931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584931", "title": "Royal secretary", "text": "Royal secretary\n\nRoyal Secretary is a position at the court of a monarch generally responsible for communicating the sovereign's wishes to the other members of government. At times and places it may have a number of other duties. In most cases the royal secretary is a close adviser of the monarch. In some cases the office of Royal Secretary evolved into the Secretary of State.\n\nIn the Kingdom of Israel the royal secretary had both the duties of private secretary to the king and secretary of state. In addition, the royal secretary exercised some fiscal duties.\n\nCurrently the royal secretary of Great Britain is denominated Private Secretary to the Sovereign and has been since 1805.\n\n\n\n\nSeungjeongwon was the Royal Secretariat during the Joseon Dynasty of Korea (1392 – 1910).\n\nOriginally of the office of royal secretary in Poland was the secretary protonotarius (or royal notary). It was under this name that the office operated under Władysław II Jagiełło from 1387 to 1423. Under the Jagiellon dynasty the royal secretaries were responsible for arranging the royal correspondence, representing the king at the regional sejms, arranging all kinds of cases most often financial, diplomatic correspondence, and editing the most important public documents. They also kept deputations entertained and resolved disputes between courtiers. The elected kings maintained the tradition and the royal secretary often had a great deal of power.\n\nThe secretary to the Pope, formerly known as \"Secretarius Domesticus\" evolved into the Secretariat of State.\n"}
{"id": "27262733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27262733", "title": "Security information and event management", "text": "Security information and event management\n\nIn the field of computer security, security information and event management (SIEM) software products and services combine security information management (SIM) and security event management (SEM). They provide real-time analysis of security alerts generated by applications and network hardware.\n\nVendors sell SIEM as software, as appliances or as managed services; these products are also used to log security data and generate reports for compliance purposes.\n\nThe acronyms \"SEM\", \"SIM\" and \"SIEM\" have been sometimes used interchangeably. The segment of security management that deals with real-time monitoring, correlation of events, notifications and console views is known as \"security event management\" (SEM). The second area provides long-term storage as well as analysis, manipulation and reporting of log data and security records of the type collated by SEM software, and is known as \"security information management\" (SIM). As with many meanings and definitions of capabilities, evolving requirements continually shape derivatives of SIEM product-categories. Organizations are turning to big data platforms, such as Apache Hadoop, to complement SIEM capabilities by extending data storage capacity and analytic flexibility. The need for voice-centric visibility or vSIEM (voice security information and event management) provides a recent example of this evolution.\n\nThe term \"security information event management\" (SIEM), coined by Mark Nicolett and Amrit Williams of Gartner in 2005,\n\n\nA key focus is to monitor and help manage user and service privileges, directory services and other system-configuration changes; as well as providing log auditing and review and incident response.\n\n\nComputer security researcher Chris Kubecka identified the following SIEM use cases, presented at the hacking conference 28C3 (Chaos Communication Congress).\n\nDavid Swift of the SANS Institute wrote about activities that can be monitored and customized rules that can be created for event correlation to trigger alerts based on certain conditions from various log sources such as network devices, security devices, servers and antivirus. Some examples of customized rules to alert on event conditions involve user authentication rules, attacks detected and infections detected. Thresholds can be configured to trigger alerts based on the quantity of occurrences of events. \nThe SIEM acronym is alternately pronounced \"SIM\" or \"SEEM\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4288041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4288041", "title": "Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories) Convention, 1947", "text": "Social Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories) Convention, 1947\n\nSocial Policy (Non-Metropolitan Territories) Convention, 1947 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1947 with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals concerning social policy in non-metropolitan territories...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by four states: Belgium, France, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "14263740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14263740", "title": "Sodium lactate", "text": "Sodium lactate\n\nSodium lactate is the sodium salt of lactic acid, and has a mild saline taste. It is produced by fermentation of a sugar source, such as corn or beets, and then, by neutralizing the resulting lactic acid to create a compound having the formula NaCHO.\n\nAs a food additive, sodium lactate has the E number E325 and is naturally a liquid product, but also is available in powder form. It acts as a preservative, acidity regulator, and bulking agent.\n\nSodium lactate is sometimes used in shampoo products and other similar items such as liquid soaps, as it is an effective humectant and moisturizer.\n\nSodium lactate is used to treat arrhythmias caused by overdosing of class I antiarrythmics, as well as pressor sympathomimetics which can cause hypertension.\n\nIt also can be given intravenously as a source of bicarbonate for preventing or controlling mild to moderate metabolic acidosis in patients with restricted oral intake (for sodium bicarbonate) whose oxidative processes are not seriously impaired. However, the use in lactic acidosis is contraindicated. It can cause panic attacks in patients with existing panic disorder.\n\nDespite the similarity in name, sodium lactate is not chemically similar to lactose (milk sugar), so need not be restricted by those with lactose intolerance. In general, lactates such as sodium, calcium, and potassium lactate are salts derived from the neutralization of lactic acid and most commercially used lactic acids are fermented from dairy-free products such as cornstarch, potatoes, or molasses. Sugar or tapioca additionally may be used. In some rare instances, some lactic acid is fermented from dairy products such as whey and lactose. Whey is made of up 6.5% solids of which 4.8% is solid lactose. Waste whey is infrequently used to produce lactic acid when the whey itself is produced as waste during the manufacture of certain dairy products. Such dairy-type lactic acid generally goes back into dairy products, such as ice cream and cream cheese, rather than into nondairy products. Moreover, although the lactic-acid starter culture to ferment corn or beets may contain milk, sodium lactate does not contain milk protein and need not be restricted by someone avoiding milk or those with a milk allergy.\n"}
{"id": "42533544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42533544", "title": "Soviet deportations from Lithuania", "text": "Soviet deportations from Lithuania\n\nSoviet deportations from Lithuania were a series of 35 mass deportations carried out in Lithuania, a country that was occupied as a constituent socialist republic of the Soviet Union, in 1941 and 1945–1952. At least 130,000 people, 70% of them women and children, were forcibly transported to labor camps and other forced settlements in remote parts of the Soviet Union, particularly in the Irkutsk Oblast and Krasnoyarsk Krai. Among the deportees were about 4,500 Poles. These deportations do not include Lithuanian partisans or political prisoners (approximately 150,000 people) deported to Gulags (prison camps). Deportations of the civilians served a double purpose: repressing resistance to Sovietization policies in Lithuania and providing free labor in sparsely inhabited areas of the Soviet Union. Approximately 28,000 of Lithuanian deportees died in exile due to poor living conditions. After Stalin's death in 1953, the deportees were slowly and gradually released. The last deportees were released only in 1963. Some 60,000 managed to return to Lithuania, while 30,000 were prohibited from settling back in their homeland. Similar deportations took place in Latvia, Estonia, and other parts of the Soviet Union (see Soviet deportations from Estonia and population transfer in the Soviet Union). Lithuania observes the annual Mourning and Hope Day on June 14 in memory of those deported.\n\nIn August 1939, Nazi Germany and Soviet Union signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact whereby dividing Eastern Europe into spheres of influence. The Baltic states (Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia) became part of the Russian sphere. The Soviet Union began preparations for the occupation and incorporation of these territories. First, it imposed mutual assistance treaties by which the Baltic states agreed to allow military bases for Soviet soldiers within their territory. Further steps were delayed by Winter War with Finland. By spring 1940, the war was over and Soviet Union increased its rhetoric accusing the Baltics of anti-Soviet conspiracy. Lithuania received Soviet ultimatum on June 14, 1940. Almost identical ultimatums to Latvia and Estonia followed two days later. Soviet Union demanded to allow an unlimited number of Soviet troops to enter the state territory and to form a more pro-Soviet government. The Soviets followed semi-constitutional procedures while forcibly transforming the independent Baltic states into the soviet socialist republics. They formed pro-Soviet People's Governments and held show elections to People's Parliaments. The annexation of the Lithuanian SSR, Latvian SSR, and Estonian SSR was completed by August 6, 1940.\n\nThe Soviets took control of political, economic, and cultural life in the three states. They rapidly implemented various sovietization policies: nationalization of private enterprises, land reform in preparation for collectivization, suppression of political, cultural, and religious organizations. Economic life was disrupted and standard of living decreased. Political activists and other people labeled as \"enemy of the people\" were arrested and imprisoned. In June 1941, some 17,000 Lithuanians were deported during the first deportation. Further repressions were prevented by Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. Within a week Lithuania was under Nazi regime. At first the Germans were greeted as liberators from the oppressive Soviet rule. Even when the Lithuanians became disillusioned with the Nazi regime and organized resistance, notably the Supreme Committee for the Liberation of Lithuania, the Soviet Union remained \"Public Enemy Number One.\"\n\nIn 1944, Nazi Germany was losing the war and Soviet Russia was making steady advances. In July 1944, Red Army reached the Lithuanian borders as part of the Operation Bagration. Most of the Lithuanian territory was taken during the Baltic Offensive. The last battle in Klaipėda ended in January 1945. Anticipating return of the Soviet terror, some 70,000 Lithuanians retreated into Germany ahead of the advancing Red Army. Generally those were political and cultural activists, artists and scientists, better educated and wealthier. Spending the first post-war years as displaced persons, they eventually settled in other countries, most often United States, forming culturally active Lithuanian diaspora. Those who remained in Lithuania were drafted into the army (some 80,000 soldiers). Men escaped the draft by joining the Lithuanian partisans, armed anti-Soviet resistance. Armed resistance inspired civil and political disobedience, to which the Soviets responded with persecutions: massacres, executions, arrests, deportations, etc.\n\nExtra soldiers, equipment, and vehicles would be brought in to carry out the deportation. However, the deportations were kept strictly secret. There was a single public order by Juozas Bartašiūnas in February 1946. Armed groups of soldiers would surround a targeted house in the middle of the night. At night it was more likely to find everyone at home and easier to keep the operation quiet without alarming other residents. Everyone inside, including newborns and the elderly, would be ordered to pack food and other necessities (the exact list of what should or could be taken varied between deportations and depended on the generosity of the soldiers). If someone attempted to resist or run away, they would be shot or beaten. Often families would be separated and there were cases when parents, children, or spouses voluntarily reported to the train station to be deported with their captured relatives. The trains often used cattle cars with no amenities. The journey often lasted weeks if not months. The conditions were unsanitary, passengers often lacked food and water. Often trains would report deaths, especially among children and elderly, before reaching the destination. In one case, a train with deportees derailed killing 19 and injuring 57 people. While official instructions (for example Serov Instructions of 1941) often prescribed mild treatment of the deportees, in reality the captured people were subject to abuse and robbed of the few things that they were allowed to pack.\n\nThe first mass deportation was carefully planned by the Soviets. Already in late summer 1940, high-ranking Soviet officials began hinting at planned mass arrests and deportations. NKVD began registering and tracking all \"anti-Soviet elements\", i.e. people who were judged to be harboring anti-Soviet attitudes solely based on their social standing, political affiliations, religious beliefs, etc. In particular, it targeted policemen, members of the Lithuanian Nationalist Union, Lithuanian Riflemen's Union, various Catholic organizations. In total, NKVD estimated that it needed to register 320,000 people or about 15% of the Lithuanian population, which with family members constituted about half of the population. In preparation for the deportation, NKVD drafted lists of people that would be deported during the first campaign, identified their incriminating background, traced their family members, and located their current residence. The list was fluid and kept changing. For example, a report dated May 13, 1941 identified 19,610 people that should be arrested and deported to prison camps and 2,954 people (mostly family members of those arrested) that should be deported to work camps. A month later, the numbers changed to 8,598 arrested and 13,654 deported family members clearly indicating a policy of eliminating entire anti-Soviet families.\n\nThe operation began during the Friday night of June 13 and was carried out by NKVD and NKGB troops from Russia, Ukraine, Belarus. Ivan Serov issued instructions, known as Serov Instructions, detailing how the deportees should be detained and transported to the trains. The instructions emphasized that the deportations should be carried out as stealthily as possible to minimize panic and resistance. Each four-member executive group was given the task of deporting two families. According to the official instructions, each family could take up to of food, clothes, shoes, and other necessities but witnesses testified that these instructions were often not followed. Many families left unprepared for the journey or the life at the destination. According to the official instructions, signed by Mečislovas Gedvilas and Icikas Meskupas, property left by the deportees was to be divided into personal property (clothes, linens, furniture, tableware) and other (art, investments, trade inventory, real estate, farm animals, agricultural tools and machinery). Personal property was to be transferred to a representative of the deportee who would sell the property and would transfer the money to the original owners. Other property was to be confiscated and either sold or used by local Soviet officials. These instructions were not followed and people reported widespread looting of the left property.\n\nThe deportations continued, but on June 16 it was counted that the Soviets were still missing about 1,400 people from their list. Needing to meet their quotas, Soviet officials hurriedly arrested another 2,000 people on June 16–18. The trains with deportees gathered in Naujoji Vilnia where men (using various excuses of needing additional inspection, questioning, or paperwork) were separated from their families and loaded onto trains heading towards prison camps. In total, there were 17 trains; they moved out on June 19 and reached their destinations between June 30 and July 9. An official NKVD report, prepared on June 19, accounted for 17,485 deportees, but the official statistics was incomplete and confused. The Genocide and Resistance Research Centre of Lithuania has traced and published the fate of 16,246 deportees.\n\nBy 1944, Nazi Germany was retreating along the Eastern Front and Soviet forces reached the territory of Lithuania by mid-1944. In October 1944, Soviet officials, including Sergei Kruglov who had experience deporting the Chechen and Ingush people, began circulating ideas about deporting families of \"bandits\" – men who avoided conscription into the Red Army and joined the Lithuanian partisans. However, such measures were not practical at the time of war. Instead, preparations were made to deport any Lithuanian Germans, their families, and more distant relatives. The train with 1,000 people left Kaunas on May 3 and arrived at its destination only in June. The deportees provided free labor to cotton plantations in the valley of the Vakhsh River. Due to particularly poor living conditions, about 580 deportees died in the first two years.\n\nAfter World War II ended, Mikhail Suslov, chairman of the Bureau for Lithuanian Affairs of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, approved a decision to deport 50–60 families from each county. Lavrentiy Beria approved the plan and sent Bogdan Zaharovich Kobulov and Arkady Apollonov to assist. The campaign targeted Lithuanian families of the \"bandits\" and was coordinated with a \"legalization\" offer to the partisans: if they surrendered, their families would be unharmed. However, such promises were not kept and lists of legalized partisans were used as basis for the deportee lists. Over 6,000 people were deported over the course of a month and a half. Most of those families had already their property confiscated, therefore official Soviet instructions that a family could take up to of property were often useless. In addition to NKVD troops, destruction battalions were used for auxiliary duties.\n\nFrom 1946 to early 1948, the civilian deportations were relatively small. The main method of oppression were individual arrests of \"enemies of the people\" and subsequent mass deportations of the prisoners. The deportations targeted Lithuanian partisans and their supported, but also included kulaks () and bourgeoisie.\n\nTwo largest deportations were carried out in May 1948 (code name \"Vesna\" – spring) and in March 1949 (code name \"Priboi\" – coastal surf) when some 70,000 people were deported. The deportations were ordered by the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union. Operation \"Priboi\" was carried out simultaneously in the Lithuanian SSR, Latvian SSR, and Estonian SSR. Operation \"Vesna\" affected only Lithuania (possibly because resistance movement was the strongest in Lithuania). Officially, this new wave of terror continued to target families and supporters of the resistance fighters. However, it was intended to break the resistance to collectivization, which required that peasants contribute their land, livestock, and farming equipment to a kolkhoz (collective farm). The farmer would then work for the collective farm and be paid a share of the farm's product and profit according to the number of workdays. Very few farmers joined the process voluntarily as it would mean abandoning private ownership for a system often compared to serfdom.\n\nAs people had witnessed previous deportations and knew the warning signs (e.g. the arrival of fresh troops and transport vehicles), many residents attempted to hide. In Lithuania, according to official Soviet records, some 13,700 avoided capture. Therefore, the authorities organized a follow-up deportation in April 1949. Some 3,000 people were found. They were labeled as especially dangerous, treated as prisoners, and sent to gold mines in Bodaybo.\n\nIt seemed that the 1947–1948 deportations achieved their goals: 1949 saw a flurry of collectivization and further weakening of the armed resistance. However, the pace of collectivization in Lithuania was still not as rapid as in Latvia or Estonia, where 93% and 80% of the farms were collectivized by the end of 1949. Therefore, an additional large-scale deportation took place in October 1951 (code name \"Osen\" – autumn). It specifically targeted kulaks and those who did not join the collective farms.\n\nThe living conditions varied greatly and depended on the geographic location of the forced settlement, local conditions, and type of work performed by the deportees. Even official reports acknowledged lack of suitable housing; for example, a report from Igarka described barracks with leaky roofs and without windows, beds, or bedding. Majority of the Lithuanian deportees were employed by the logging and timber industry. The deportees could not leave the location of their settlement or change work; their deportations had no expiration date and were for their lifetime. Those who attempted escape or \"avoid work\" were sent to prison camps. Between 1945 and 1948, 1722 Lithuanians attempted to escape; 1070 were caught by 1949. In 1948, stricter regulations adopted by the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union allotted 20 years in prison for those who escaped and 5 years for those aiding the fugitives. Children born in exile were classified as deportees and were subject to the same treatment as their parents, with some exceptions for mixed (deportee and non-deportee) families.\n\nDue to poor living conditions, demanding physical labor, lack of food and medical care, the mortality rates were high, especially among the young and the elderly. Based on the incomplete and inaccurate records kept by MVD and MGB, Arvydas Anušauskas estimated that some 16,500 and 3,500 Lithuanians died in 1945–1952 and 1953–1958 respectively; this number does not include 8,000 deaths among the deportees of 1941. Thus total Lithuanian deaths could be around 28,000. Children accounted for about a quarter of the total casualties.\n\nStalin's death in 1953 was followed by the Khrushchev Thaw and a de-Stalinization campaign, which included gradual release of the deportees and prisoners. In July 1954, deportee children under 16 were removed from the deportee list and the sentence for escape was reduced from 20 to 3 years in prison. The release of the Lithuanians was slow. When in 1954 an amnesty was announced for people older than 55–60, disabled, or incurably ill, a special provision excluded the Lithuanians or members of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists due to matters of \"public security.\" In Lithuania, the deportee files were slowly reviewed on case-by-case basis by the Supreme Soviet of the Lithuanian SSR. Soviet apparatchiks regarded the deportees as a threat, especially when they wanted to claim their property confiscated at the time of the deportation. The Lithuanians approved releases only in limited circumstances if they found some irregularities or violations.\n\nIn 1956 and 1957, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union approved releases of larger groups of the deportees, including the Lithuanians. Deportees started returning in large numbers creating difficulties for local communists – deportees would petition for return of their confiscated property, were generally considered unreliable and required special surveillance. Soviet Lithuanian officials, including Antanas Sniečkus, drafted local administrative measures prohibiting deportee return and petitioned Moscow to enact national policies to that effect. In May 1958, the Soviet Union revised its policy regarding the remaining deportees: all those who were not involved with the Lithuanian partisans were released, but without the right to return to Lithuania. The last Lithuanians—the partisan relatives and the partisans—were released only in 1960 and 1963 respectively. Majority of the deportees released in May 1958 and later never returned to Lithuania.\n\nAbout 60,000 deportees returned to Lithuania. However, they faced further difficulties: their property was long looted and divided up by strangers, they faced discrimination for jobs and social guarantees, their children were denied higher education. Former deportees, resistance members, and their children were not allowed to integrate into the society. That created a permanent group of people that opposed the regime and continued non-violent resistance.\n\nDeportations of civilian population without warning, trial, or apparent cause were one of the most serious grievances against the Soviet regime. When, during Gorbachev-introduced \"glastnost\", Lithuanians were allowed a greater freedom of speech, honoring the memory of the deportees was one of their first demands. Such demands were raised during the first public anti-Soviet rally organized by the Lithuanian Liberty League on August 23, 1987.\n\nSome Lithuanians believe that the deportees should be paid a compensation for their slave labor in a similar fashion as Germany paid compensation to forced laborers in Nazi Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15129293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15129293", "title": "States of Friesland", "text": "States of Friesland\n\nThe States of Friesland were the sovereign body that governed the province of Friesland under the Dutch Republic. They were formed in 1580 after the former Lordship of Frisia (a part of the Habsburg Netherlands) acceded to the Union of Utrecht and became one of the Seven United Netherlands. The Frisian stadtholder was their \"First Servant\" (mostly in military matters, as he had few other powers before 1748, when the Government Regulations for Friesland were promulgated by then-stadtholder William IV, Prince of Orange). The board of \"Gedeputeerde Staten\" (Delegated States) was the executive of the province when the States were not in session (which was most of the time). The States of Friesland were abolished after the Batavian Revolution of 1795, when the Batavian Republic was founded. They were resurrected in name (but not in substance) in the form of the Provincial States of Friesland under the Constitution of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.\nAfter the Lordship of Frisia (formerly enjoying Imperial immediacy in the Holy Roman Empire, but given as a fief to the father of George, Duke of Saxony in 1498 by Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, then still King of the Romans, and sold by duk George to Charles V in 1515), became part of the Habsburg Netherlands, its government followed the general Habsburg model of a stadtholder with a Council (in this case the Court of Friesland). But as in other provinces of the Netherlands a States was periodically convened to send representatives to the States General of the Netherlands to deliberate about the granting of extraordinary subsidies to the central government (called \"Beden\"), and as in other provinces the three Estates: Clergy, Nobility, and Third Estate were represented in that body. In Friesland the Third Estate was formed by representatives of the three \"Goas\" that made up Friesland: \"Westergo\", \"Oostergo\", and \"Zevenwouden\". These representatives were elected by \"eigenerfden\" (comparable to freeholders) who possessed a \"hornleger\" (a farmhouse and yard), with a parcel of land attached that was taxed for the \"verponding\" or \"floreen\" (a land tax that was comparable to the French \"Taille\"). The \"electoral districts\" were formed by the 30 \"Grietenijen\" into which Friesland was subdivided. Originally the citizens of the eleven cities were mixed in with the peasants and nobles in the \"grietenijen\", but just before the accession of Friesland to the Union of Utrecht in 1580, they were allowed to form a separate fourth \"quarter\", apart from the three Goas just mentioned, by then-stadtholder George de Lalaing, Count of Rennenberg, and have their own representation in the States. After the revolutionary period of the accession to the Union in 1579-1580 the Clergy and Nobility no longer participated in the States, at least as separate Estates. \n\nThe \"Gedeputeerde Staten\" (Delegated States) also predated the Dutch Republic. Already in the 1530s they were formed by the States as a counterweight against the Court of Friesland (then still mainly a kind of Privy council for the stadtholder, and secondarily the court of highest instance in the Lordship). During the first years of the Dutch Revolt they achieved a permanent existence when Rennenberg in 1577 formally recognized them after the Pacification of Ghent. Initially they consisted of two members for each of the \"quarters\" of Friesland, but in 1584 the quarter of the cites was given three representatives, bringing the total number of members to nine. They formed the true \"Executive\" on a daily basis and were directly responsible to the States.\n\nThe States of Friesland were the assembly of the thirty \"grietenijen\" and eleven cities of Friesland in which each had one vote. (In comparison, the States of Holland and West Friesland were made up of eighteen cities and the \"ridderschap\" (College of Nobles) of the County of Holland, each having one vote). Other than most other provinces, Friesland did not have a \"Ridderschap\" as part of its States, and the Clergy was also no longer represented as such (though individual nobles and clergymen could of course be delegates). Every \"grietenij\" and every city was allowed to send two delegates to the annual session of the States, that was known as the \"Landdag\" (Landtag or Diet (assembly)). The \"grietenijen\" elected such delegates, called \"Volmachten\" (which literally means Proxy) in elections in which owners of a taxable parcel of land of a certain minimum size, with a farmhouse on it (so-called \"eigenerfden\"), could take part.The minimum size varied over the course of time. In the Government Regulations adopted in 1748 the minimum size was put at five \"pondematen\" of clay soil, or ten \"pondematen\" of woodland. \n\nIt should be noted that the vote was tied to the land and was transferred when the land was sold or otherwise transferred. The minimum size of the taxable parcel so determined the number of votes in the \"grietenij\". The system was open to the abuse of amassing these taxable parcels to amass votes in the \"grietenij\" elections. Indeed, vote collectors would buy the plots with borrowed money, giving a mortgage to the lender, and then immediately renting it out to a tenant, who would not be eligible to vote. The \"hornlegers\" on this land were rented out in perpetuity for very low rents (sometimes the value of two roosters) and still allow the new owner to use the vote attached to the land (so-called \"rooster votes\"), but for this reason the Regulation of 1748 stipulated that the new owner should own the house for at least a year, before he could use its vote.\n\nNot everybody who owned such a taxable parcel was allowed to vote, however. Excluded were members of religious denominations that were \"not-admitted\". The only admitted denominations were the Dutch Reformed Church (and its French-language equivalent, the Walloon church); the Lutheran church, and the Mennonites. Minors could be represented by their guardians. Otherwise, everybody (women, as well as men, natural-born citizens as well as aliens) could exercise the vote.\n\nPassive suffrage was more restricted. In the first place, one of the \"Volmachten\" of every \"grietenij\" had to be an \"eigenerfde\" (i.e. a commoner), while the other had to be a \"nobleman.\" But this immediately posed the problem that Friesland did not have a nobility in the usual sense of families who had received a feudal fief from a liege lord, or people who had been knighted, for lack of a feudal history. However, Friesland did have notable families of great substance, who lived on castles known as \"Stinsen\", and enjoyed the respect of the local population, whose \"natural leaders\" they were. These people (though not having pieces of paper, such as patents of nobility, to prove their claim) were generally considered members of the domestic nobility, and they often used noble titles like baron or jonkheer. On the other hand, members of foreign nobility could be \"recognized\" as nobles. But all in all, the qualification was vague and gave occasion to much litigation before the \"Gedeputeerde Staten\" (who acted as the competent court in disputes about accreditation).\n\nThe \"volmachten\" representing the cities also were of two kinds: one had to be a member of the city \"vroedschap\"; the other a member of the city magistracy, like a \"burgemeester\". These delegates were, however, elected by the combined \"vroedschap\" and magistracy, not by each separately. In sum, the \"Landdag\" usually consisted of 84 members (60 for the \"grietenijen\" and 22 for the cities). But as so much in Friesland this was not strictly enforced, and often the number of delegates was (much) larger, though the number of votes remained fixed at (30 + 11 =) 41.\n\nFor all \"volmachten\" was required that they be:\n\nThe \"Landdag\" was usually convened once a year (in January), by a summons issued by the \"Gedeputeerde Staten\" to the \"Grietmannen\" of the \"grietenijen\" and the city governments, who were charged with organizing the elections. The summons usually specified the agenda for the session also, though this would not bind the \"Landdag\". After the elections had taken place the \"volmachten\" would convene at the \"Landshuis\" in Leeuwarden at the appointed day and time. After the opening of the session they would divide themselves up in four \"chambers\" (one for each \"quarter\"), who would start their deliberations in four rooms assigned to these quarters.\n\nThe work of the \"Landdag\" on a daily basis was organized by a steering committee of eight \"volmachten\" (two for each quarter) called the \"Mindergetal\" (literally \"smaller number\" as they were a committee from the States that was smaller than the number of the delegates in the \"Landdag\"). Initially this committee was elected by the \"Landdag\" at the beginning of the deliberations, but later they were appointed for a number of years, according to a schedule of rotation. All documents for the States (such as petitions) first had to be submitted to the \"Mindergetal\", whose members would convey them to their own Chamber, and report back to the \"Mindergetal\" with the advice from the Chamber. The \"Mindergetal\" also drafted Resolutions for the \"Landdag\", which were then submitted to the Chambers for deliberation and consent. The \"Mindergetal\" also advised the States on documents from the States General and the Council of State.\n\nAs elsewhere in the Dutch Republic the \"center of gravity\" of government was located in local government (i.e. the cities and villages). Sovereignty was supposed to be located \"in the People\" and to percolate upward from there to the States of the province by way of the local authorities, where it was eventually \"reposited\". The States were (at least after 1588, when the last of the Governors-General, who before then were considered the founts of sovereignty, Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester, left Dutch territory forever) considered the governing bodies where sovereignty ultimately resided But under the Union of Utrecht the seven provinces had concluded a defensive alliance in 1579 and delegated certain sovereign powers upward to the States General of the Netherlands, such as the common defense and foreign policy. For these common matters the provinces had to supply financial contributions and these contributions were with their consent determined in the States General. The States of the provinces were therefore in the first place responsible for the representation of their province in the States General, and for providing the agreed contributions. Legislating about the necessary taxation in each province was therefore an important task of the States (though the collection of those taxes was usually left to the local authorities, who in turn, before 1748, outsourced that task to tax farmers). The States were generally the legislature on the provincial level, though most civil and criminal law already existed under the system known as Roman-Dutch law, that was enforced by the courts with the Court of Friesland at their apex. As the notion of Separation of powers did not (yet) exist, the States were also the Executive on the provincial level. \n\nIt is often assumed that the provincial stadtholder (an office held over from the Habsburg Netherlands) was the true \"Executive\", but this was only the case in any meaningful sense of the word after the Orangist revolution of 1747. Before that, the actual powers of the Frisian stadtholder were very limited by the Instruction the States drafted at the appointment of each of those stadtholders. Ironically, Friesland was the only province that always had a stadtholder, even during the First Stadtholderless Period (1650-1672) and the Second Stadtholderless Period (1702-1747), when other provinces had abolished the office of stadtholder. After 1588 the Frisian stadtholders were always members of the House of Nassau-Dietz, beginning with William Louis, Count of Nassau-Dillenburg. The office was even made hereditary in Friesland for members of this House in 1675. After William the Silent Friesland never had a stadtholder who was a member of the original House of Orange, that expired with William III of England who was never a stadtholder of Friesland. Before 1747 (when the then-Frisian stadtholder, William IV, Prince of Orange, was made stadtholder of all the other provinces also), the competence of the Frisian stadtholder was usually limited in wartime to being Captain-General of the Frisian contingent of troops in the Dutch States Army, usually subordinated to the stadtholder of Holland. In peacetime his duties were even less onerous. All of this changed, however, with the Government Regulations that were promulgated by William IV in 1748 at the express \"request\" of the Frisian States. After that a large number of powers of appointment that previously had belonged to the States themselves, or the \"Gedeputeerde Staten\", were taken over by the stadtholder. But the States retained the monopoly of creating and abolishing offices for the discharge of tasks on the provincial level, which may be seen as the principal \"executive\" function of the States.\n\nThe \"constitution\" of Friesland, as in the other provinces of the Republic, was not one written document, but a quilt of medieval charters, ordinances that predated the Union of Utrecht (like the Placard of 30 October 1539, that regulated the elections in Friesland, treaties (like the Peace of Münster), and customs, and legal precedents from Roman-Dutch law. But certain problems with these largely unwritten norms formed an impetus for several attempts at constitutional reform in the form of the promulgation of a written Government Regulation. These problems were widely felt abuses like the trade in votes in the \"grietenijen\" and the sale of offices, or in general rampant corruption. The trade in votes led to a situation similar to that of the Rotten and pocket boroughs in the United Kingdom before the Reform Act 1832. The sale of offices was a universal abuse that is known as Simony in the context of the Church, and in many countries elicited periodical attempts at suppression (like e.g. the Sale of Offices Act 1551 in England). But there were other forms of corruption also, that needed to be addressed. Also, the \"rules of the game\" embedded in the existing system favored certain political players over others, and this led to attempts to arrive at a more equitable set-up. In Friesland these attempts at constitutional reform came to a head during three periods with a \"revolutionary flavor\": 1627, 1672 and 1748.\n\nIn 1627 the proximate cause of the reform movement were new taxes that were introduced in connection with the war situation. As so often, the taxpayers rebelled at this, especially those in the cities, who felt unfairly imposed upon. The oligarchy of the \"grietmannen\" was blamed for this, and this led to a movement to diminish their power.\n\nThe States appointed a commission of inquiry on 13 December 1626 that had to gather comments from the population about its grievances through the intermediary of the \"grietmannen\" and the city governments, and report by 30 January 1627 (i.e. at the time the new \"Landdag\" was to be convened). This procedure resulted in a Resolution of the States of 17 April 1627, which became known as the Appeal about Abuses. This formed the basis for the so-called \"poincten reformatoir\" (reform points) of 1627, a terminology that was repeated at later occasions.\n\nThe most important of these 28 points were the following:\nThese points were promulgated by the Resolution of the States of 15 June 1627.\n\nUnfortunately, these reforms, though impressive on paper, were honored primarily in the breach. They formed the basis for new attempts at reform in 1672 therefore, when a war situation again roiled public sentiments. A petition of representatives of the cities of 12 September 1672 to the States referred explicitly to the Appeal about Abuses of 1627. The States had already on 2 March 1672 formed a commission to draw up proposals for military and financial reform, but without result, so the petition may be explained from the frustrations of the population at this inaction. The military situation became threatening for Friesland when on 25 June 1672 the troops of the Prince-Bishopric of Münster, led by Christoph Bernhard von Galen, who had invaded the Dutch Republic from the East, came near to the Frisian border. The danger was soon averted, but the Countess Albertine Agnes of Nassau, Regent for her son Henry Casimir II, Prince of Nassau-Dietz, the putative stadtholder after the death of her husband William Frederick, Prince of Nassau-Dietz, had already petitioned the States on behalf of her son, to inundate the countryside as a means to stop the enemy. This harebrained scheme was averted, but by then the population was in full revolt.\n\nIn Leeuwarden the mob put pressure on the Magistrate to promote the appointment of the only 15-year old Prince as Frisian stadtholder, and this was actually done on 13 July 1672. This did not satisfy the reformers, however, and in September 1672 the Leeuwarden Magistrate was forced to allow the convening of a commission that soon came up with proposals for reform. A petition was handed over to the States and on 18 September 1672 the \"Landdag\" appointed a commission to deliberate the 53 points in this petition. Around this time the eminent Frisian juristUlrik Huber published a brochure, entitled \"Spiegel van Doleancie en Reformatie\" (Mirror of Appeal and Reform) in which he pleaded for a rational and constitutional/legal approach to reform, instead of the wild \"revolutionary\" approach of the reformers. He proposed that either the States, or the Court of Friesland would take the initiative.\n\nHis most useful contribution as a legal scholar was, however, that he discussed the \"poincten reformatoir\" of 1627 to decide what was still relevant. Among those points he counted:\n\nFrom this brochure it may be inferred that the abuses were indeed serious. In any case, the commission of the States indeed included many of the points from the 1627 \"poincts reformatoir\" recommended by Huber in her proposal, and added a large number of new ones, not always of great import, but sometimes of great consequence, like the proposed prohibition of \"grietmannen\" standing for election as \"volmacht\". This was intended to diminish the power of the \"grietmannen\" and would cause great problems when the proposals were adopted under pressure of the Leeuwarden mob by the States in the Resolution of 27 September 1672.\n\nThe new \"Landdag\" was convened for 14 October 1672, elected under the new Resolution, hence without \"grietmannen\". However, the excluded \"grietmannen\" now started a fight over the letters of accreditation of the newly elected \"volmachten\", in which they managed to bring the whole accreditation process to a standstill. The old \"volmachten\", with the support of the new stadtholder and his mother, then convened the States in the city of Sneek for 7 November 1672. The old \"volmachten\" defended this schism in the States with the argument that they had been elected for the entire year of 1672, so the recent elections had been illegal, as was the Resolution of 27 September 1672. The two competing \"Landdagen\" (in Leeuwarden and Sneek) then published so-called \"Deducties\" (Arguments) in pamphlet form in which they pleaded their cases during November and December 1672. The quarrel threatened the safety of the Union, so the States General sent a commission to mediate between the warring \"Landdagen\". That commission arrived on 4 January 1673 in Leeuwarden and offered its services to both the Sneek and Leeuwarden groups. Sneek accepted immediately, but Leeuwarden rejected the offer. The Leeuwarden States preferred mediation by the Court of Friesland. However, this ploy failed and the commission from the States General on 21 January 1673 sent an ultimatum to the Leeuwarden States to accept their mediation. After some hesitation this was accepted on 25 January.\n\nThe commission (augmented with the boy-stadtholder) then started with the compilation of a new set of \"poincten reformatoir\" with resulted in a draft-Resolution for the States of 105 articles, presented on 8 February 1673 to the States. But this draft did not meet with approval. On 17 February the newly elected \"Landdag\" was opened with a speech by one of the commissioners from the States General, but the commission left Leeuwarden on 1 March 1673, without having attained a result. The \"Gedeputeerde Staten\" then proposed to the States to put the matter in the hands of a commission of the States, formally chaired by the boy-stadtholder, consisting of one representative of each of the land quarters, and two representatives of the city quarter (one of which was Allart Pieter van Jongestall). This commission took the report of the mediation commission as a starting point and came (after some culling) up with 97 articles, which were promulgated by the Resolution of the States of 19 March 1673.\n\nThe new Regulation contained the following important points:\nFurthermore, a large number of articles from the previous \"poincten reformatoir\" were included. The whole was called the \"poincten decisoir\" of 1673. However, despite this seemingly decisive result the new Regulation was again (like the one of 1627) honored in the breach.\n\nA new political crisis, the one of 1748, was needed to finally arrive at a written constitution that was effective. To understand that crisis the situation during the Second Stadtholderless Period should briefly be recapitulated. After the death of king-stadtholder William III in 1702 the stadtholderate was abolished in all provinces, except Friesland and Groningen, and a regime of Dutch States Party \"regenten\" came into power that would stay there until the French invasion of 1747, which caused a popular revolt. During this long period, Friesland retained a stadtholder with the usual limited powers. This was first John William Friso, Prince of Orange, who inherited the office in 1696 (still a minor) and died in 1711. At the time of his death his wife, Landgravine Marie Louise of Hesse-Kassel, was pregnant with their son William IV, Prince of Orange, who was born six weeks later. He also inherited the office of stadtholder in Friesland and Groningen, but evidently was unable to serve, and his mother acted as a regent until his majority in 1731. During this time Gelderland in 1722 also indicated its willingness to accept him as its stadtholder. Between 1731 and 1747 he therefore was already stadtholder in three of the seven provinces of the Republic, but for each separately, and without powers at the national level. In the four other provinces and on the national level the States party dominated, and it also had great influence in the three provinces that had appointed William, which contributed to a steady erosion of his prerogatives in those provinces, according to complaints of his Orangist partisans.\n\nThe French invasion of 1747 showed the military unpreparedness of the Republic, as in 1672, and as in 1672 the population revolted against the States party and demanded that a stadtholder be appointed to take charge of the country's defenses. The only likely candidate was William IV, and despite great misgivings the States of Holland and the other three provinces appointed him in their vacant stadtholder's offices in May 1747. He then moved his court from Leeuwarden to the Hague, and started to consolidate his political position by deftly exploiting the disarray of his political opponents and replacing them with his own partisans, often helped by judiciously applied street violence of Orangist mobs to intimidate his opponents. Friesland was spared this violence, apart from a few riots against the tax farmers, which in other parts of the Republic also had drawn the ire of the population. The States asked for military protection against the mob violence from the stadtholder, but like in other cases where he deemed that violence convenient for his purposes, he refused to send troops.\n\nThis mob violence was in Friesland, however, canalized into a movement to reform the old regime, starting with a deputation that on 1 June 1748 was sent by the city of Harlingen to the States in Leeuwarden, with a petition, containing the following demands:\n\nThese demands were accepted by the hastily assembled States on 5 June, but meanwhile a large number of citizen-delegates from all over Friesland had assembled in Leeuwarden to present further grievances. These so-called \"gecommitteerden\" marched to the States and presented a number of demands, partly overlapping with the ones just mentioned, but in addition also that the \"poincten reformatoir\" of 1627 and the \"poincten decisoir\" of 1672 would be brought into force, and that the authorities would indicate their willingness to accede to future petitions, or would allow the populace to approach the stadtholder with their grievances. Even more consequential than these demands (that were immediately granted) was that the \"gecommitteerden\" charged a number of commissions from their midst to formulate new proposals. This led to a number of further reforms in the following months, such as the new rule that the stadtholder would have a tie-breaking vote in the \"Landdag\".\n\nOn 5 July 1748 the \"gecommitteerden\" went to the States in solemn procession, and presented a further list of 72 demands, and another list of 47 demands on 25 July. These lists contained (in random order) the usual forms of redress of grievances against the combination of offices; forms of official corruption, like sale of offices; appointment of minors in offices as sinecures; election abuses; the abolition of the regulation of stud horses (which appears to have been an enduring grievance); accountability in the public finances, including the mustering of the troops; reduction of the standing army in peace time; increase of the minimum size of the parcel of land attached to a vote, to ten pondematen clay soil and twenty pondematen woodland, but only for new cases; the prohibition of payments by the authorities in the form of paper money or IOUs; incompatibilities of all kinds of public offices, especially for \"grietmannen\"; abolition of a number of privileges; and many others of more or less importance. Most of these demands were accepted by the States, but with the proviso that these decisions would be \"approved\" by the stadtholder. The \"gecommitteerden\" saw this as too much wiggle room, and demanded that the reforms would be \"guaranteed\" by the stadtholder, which the States hastily consented to.\n\nThese reforms seemed a great success for the \"democratic\" forces in Friesland, and a defeat for the old oligarchy. But then the stadtholder intervened. He had already restored the \"Regeringsreglementen\" (Government Regulations) that the States of Gelderland, of Overijssel and of Utrecht had been forced to accept in 1674 as the price of their re-admission to the Union after their occupation by the French army in 1672, and which had given then-stadtholder William III far-reaching powers of control over their provincial governments. These Regulations had lapsed under the stadtholderless regime, but were now re-introduced for the benefit of William IV. They gave him the right of appointment, or at least approval of appointments, of magistrates on the local level (from a slate of nominees, drawn up by the local \"vroedschap\", but he was not bound by those nominations), and of officials on the provincial level, among whom delegates to the States General. William also tamped down on \"democratic\" movements among his followers in other parts of the country.\n\nIn August 1748 he did sent troops \"to restore order\" (though the disturbances had ceased by then) and delegated a commission of the States General to hold an inquiry into the causes of the unrest in Friesland. This commission consisted of a number of his henchmen from other provinces: Schimmelpenninck van der Oye (delegate for Gelderland), Gevaerts (Holland), Verelst (Zeeland), Perzoon (Overijssel). They arrived in Leeuwarden at the end of August and immediately started hearings of a number of people specifically selected by William himself (mostly \"grietmannen\" from well-known noble families) to inform them about what had been going on. It should not cause much surprise that the first conclusion the Commission arrived at after its inquiry was that the main cause of the disturbances had been \"the little authority, left to the stadtholder, because of which the authority of the States had become overweening\"\n\nLittle happened after the departure of the Commission at the end of September, however, as everybody seemed to be awaiting the arrival of the stadtholder himself, which was delayed until December 1748. On 21 December 1748 he gave a forceful speech to the \"Landdag\" and handed over his already completed \"Reglement reformatoir\", a Government Regulation for Friesland after the model of the Regulations for the other provinces mentioned before. After referring to the request of the States of 11 June 1748, the stadtholder enumerated 60 articles, among which the following:\n\nWilliam left Leeuwarden for The Hague at the end of 1748 in the belief that he had finally laid down a written constitution for Friesland that would actually be observed. However, this appears not to have been the case, as shown by the facts in the \"Apologie\" (Apologia) the Frisian politician Court Lambertus van Beyma published during his exile in Saint-Omer in 1790. Many corrupt practices were continued, and the hoped for forceful government of William IV as a benevolent dictator in the Republic did not materialize. After his unexpected death in 1751 his infant son William V, Prince of Orange formally succeeded him as stadtholder in all provinces of the Republic, but the government was exercised as Regent by his mother Anne, Princess Royal and Princess of Orange until her death in 1759. During this time a so-called \"Frisian cabal\" of her courtiers made the stadtholderian regime infamous for its corrupt practices. One especially corrupt official was her equerry Douwe Sirtema van Grovestins, who once sold the governorship of Dutch Ceylon for 70,000 guilders.. When William V came of age in 1766 and was duly appointed stadtholder in all provinces, he remained under the tutelage of his equally corrupt mentor Duke Louis Ernest of Brunswick-Lüneburg, with whom he concluded the Acte van Consulentschap. This regime eventually provoked the Patriot Revolt during the Patriottentijd.\n\nThe system of suffrage for the States facilitated the accumulation of votes in a few hands of people who bought up land parcels to which votes were attached. To finance these land purchases they generally took out mortgage loans. In any case, around the 1770s the main investors in these mortgage loans were wealthy members of the Mennonite religious minority, who were discriminated against in public life. Though they could vote in elections, they were not allowed to stand for those elections, which formally deprived them of political influence. But materially they did use their hold over the mortgagors to strongly influence the elections. They were strongly opposed to the stadtholderate that they saw as the main obstacle to their own emancipation. Through their influence the States had a large minority of Patriot members, and at times even a majority.\n\nOne example of this Patriot hold over the States was seen in February 1782 when the States accepted the letters of accreditation of the envoy of the \"Rebel\" Unites States of America, John Adams, as the first province in the Union (and the second sovereign body in Europe, after the Kingdom of France), and instructed their delegates in the States General to do likewise. This helped convince the latter body to recognise the United States on 19 April 1782, against the will of the stadtholder, which represented an important diplomatic coup for Adams.\n\nBut usually the Patriots and the Orangists in the States were more or less in balance and around 1787 the Orangists had a definite majority, though this was uncertain enough that the British ambassador in the Republic, Sir James Harris, who had by then a mandate from the government of William Pitt the Younger to subvert the Patriots, and had the use of a slush-fund of £70,000 to further that end, embarked on a scheme to buy up enough mortgages of Pro-Orangist voters in Friesland, to break the hold of the Mennonites, and secure a definite Orangist majority in the States.\n\nHowever, the elections of January 1787 had already resulted in an Orangist majority in the States, which was immediately used to legislate against the Patriots: Patriot petitions were prohibited as were Patriot demonstrations. But the Patriots did not take this attempt at suppression lying down. Van Beyma mobilized the Patriot civic militias that helped protect the centers of Patriot opposition against the States against repression by the States Army garrison in Leeuwarden. One of those centers was the University of Franeker where the faculty and students were strong Patriot partisans. The faculty member Johan Valckenaer was dismissed by the States for his political views in May 1787, which caused the students to riot. This recommended Franeker as a safe place for Patriots. When a split developed in the States of Utrecht in the Summer of 1787, with rival States, one from Amersfoort, the other from Utrecht city, vied for recognition as the \"true\" representatives of that province in the States General, van Beyma tried to do the same in Friesland.\n\nAbout twelve Patriot \"volmachten\" went to Franeker to constitute themselves as the \"Franeker\" States in opposition to the rest of the \"volmachten\" who remained in Leeuwarden. Valckenaer opposed this, because he thought that militarily Harlingen, where the arsenal of the Admiralty of Friesland was located, was a better choice. The opportunity passed, however, when the Leeuwarden States had Harlingen occupied by States Army troops on 4 September 1787. Meanwhile, Franeker had been reinforced with Patriot militia from Holland, and the city prepared for a siege. While the Leeuwarden States recalled States Army troops, paid for by Friesland, to the province, both sides started anathematizing each other, both claiming to be the \"true and only legitimate\" States of Friesland.\n\nBefore the civil war could begin in earnest, however, the Prussian invasion of Holland started on 13 September 1787, and soon the resistance of the Frisian Patriots collapsed. Those that could get away, fled to Amsterdam, led by van Beyma and Valckenaer, to take part in the last stand of the Patriots. After the fall of that city on 10 October 1787 most of the Frisian Patriots fled to France, where most congregated in Saint-Omer in the next few years, often feuding among themselves.\n\nBut they returned \"with a vengeance\" in 1795 when the old Republic was overturned by the Batavian Revolution. On 7 February 1795 a \"Committé Révolutionair Provinciaal\" met for the first time. This took over the powers of the Frisian States. Soon, after the example of the Provisional Representatives of the People of Holland a similar assembly of Provisional Representatives of the People of Friesland formally took over from the States on 19 February 1795. This was replaced by the National Assembly of the Batavian Republic in April 1796.\n\nThe States of Friesland (, ) are the States-Provincial for the Dutch province of Friesland, first introduced under the Constitution of the Netherlands in 1814. It forms the legislative body of the province. Its 43 seats are distributed every four years in provincial elections. Since 2008, it is chaired by John Jorritsma (VVD).\n\nSince the 2015 provincial elections, the seats of the States of Friesland are as following:\n\n!colspan=\"2\" align=\"left\"|Party\n!Votes\n!Seats\n\n!colspan=\"2\" align=\"left\"|Total\n! 297,307\n!align=\"center\" | 43\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7963444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963444", "title": "Steven Chu", "text": "Steven Chu\n\nSteven Chu (, born February 28, 1948) is an American physicist and a former government official. He is known for his research at Bell Labs and Stanford University regarding the cooling and trapping of atoms with laser light, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1997, along with his scientific colleagues Claude Cohen-Tannoudji and William Daniel Phillips.\n\nChu served as the 12th United States Secretary of Energy from 2009 to 2013. At the time of his appointment as Energy Secretary, Chu was a professor of physics and molecular and cellular biology at the University of California, Berkeley, and the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, where his research was concerned primarily with the study of biological systems at the single molecule level.\n\nChu resigned as energy secretary on April 22, 2013. He returned to Stanford as Professor of Physics and Professor of Molecular & Cellular Physiology.\n\nChu is a vocal advocate for more research into renewable energy and nuclear power, arguing that a shift away from fossil fuels is essential to combating climate change. He has conceived of a global \"glucose economy\", a form of a low-carbon economy, in which glucose from tropical plants is shipped around like oil is today.\n\nChu was born in St. Louis, Missouri, with ancestry from Liuhe, Taicang, in Jiangsu, China, and graduated from Garden City High School. He received both a B.A. in mathematics and a B.S. in physics in 1970 from the University of Rochester. He went on to earn his Ph.D. in physics from the University of California, Berkeley under Eugene D. Commins, in 1976, during which he was supported by a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship.\n\nChu comes from a family of scholars. His father, Ju-Chin Chu, earned a doctorate in chemical engineering from MIT and taught at Washington University in St. Louis and Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, and his mother studied economics. His maternal grandfather, Shu-tian Li, earned a Ph.D. from Cornell University, and was a professor and president of Tianjin University (Peiyang University). His mother's uncle, Li Shu-hua, a physical scientist, studied physics at the Sorbonne before returning to China. Chu's older brother, Gilbert Chu, is a professor of biochemistry and medicine at Stanford University. His younger brother, Morgan Chu, is a partner and former co-managing partner at the law firm Irell & Manella. According to Chu, his two brothers and four cousins have four Ph.D.s, three M.D.s, and a J.D. among them.\n\nIn 1997, he married Jean Fetter, a British-American Oxford-trained physicist. He has two sons, Geoffrey and Michael, from a previous marriage to Lisa Chu-Thielbar.\n\nChu is interested in sports such as baseball, swimming, and cycling. He taught himself tennis—by reading a book—in the eighth grade, and was a second-string substitute for the school team for three years. He also taught himself how to pole vault using bamboo poles obtained from the local carpet store. Chu said he never learned to speak Chinese because his parents always spoke to their children in English.\n\nAfter obtaining his doctorate he remained at Berkeley as a postdoctoral researcher for two years before joining Bell Labs, where he and his several co-workers carried out his Nobel Prize-winning laser cooling work. He left Bell Labs and became a professor of physics at Stanford University in 1987, serving as the chair of its Physics Department from 1990 to 1993 and from 1999 to 2001. At Stanford, Chu and three others initiated the Bio-X program, which focuses on interdisciplinary research in biology and medicine, and played a key role in securing the funding for the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology. In August 2004, Chu was appointed as the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, a U.S. Department of Energy National Laboratory, and joined UC Berkeley's Department of Physics and Department of Molecular and Cell Biology. Under Chu's leadership, the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory has been a center of research into biofuels and solar energy. He spearheaded the laboratory's Helios project, an initiative to develop methods of harnessing solar power as a source of renewable energy for transportation.\n\nChu's early research focused on atomic physics by developing laser cooling techniques and the magneto-optical trapping of atoms using lasers. He and his co-workers at Bell Labs developed a way to cool atoms by employing six laser beams opposed in pairs and arranged in three directions at right angles to each other. Trapping atoms with this method allows scientists to study individual atoms with great accuracy. Additionally, the technique can be used to construct an atomic clock with great precision.\n\nAt Stanford, Chu's research interests expanded into biological physics and polymer physics at the single-molecule level. He studied enzyme activity and protein and RNA folding using techniques like fluorescence resonance energy transfer, atomic force microscopy, and optical tweezers. His polymer physics research used individual DNA molecules to study polymer dynamics and their phase transitions. He continued researching atomic physics as well and developed new methods of laser cooling and trapping.\n\nSteven Chu is a co-winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1997 for the \"development of methods to cool and trap atoms with laser light\", shared with Claude Cohen-Tannoudji and William Daniel Phillips.\n\nHe is a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and the Academia Sinica, and is a foreign member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Korean Academy of Science and Engineering. He was also awarded the Humboldt Prize by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation in 1995.\n\nChu received an honorary doctorate from Boston University when he was the keynote speaker at the 2007 commencement exercises. He is a Senior Fellow of the Design Futures Council. \"Diablo Magazine\" awarded him an Eco Award in its April 2009 issue, shortly after he was nominated for Energy Secretary.\n\nWashington University in St. Louis and Harvard University awarded him honorary doctorates during their 2010 and 2009 commencement exercises, respectively. He was awarded an honorary degree from Yale University during its 2010 commencement. He was also awarded an honorary degree from the Polytechnic Institute of New York University, the same institution at which his father taught for several years, during its 2011 commencement. Penn State University awarded him an honorary doctorate during their 2012 commencement exercises. In 2014, Chu was awarded an honorary doctorate from Williams College, during which he gave a talk moderated by Williams College Professor Protik Majumder. Chu was also awarded an honorary doctorate from Amherst College in 2017, where he later gave a lecture titled \"Climate Change and Needed Technical Solutions for a Sustainable Future\" in March 2018.\n\nChu was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society (ForMemRS) in 2014. His nomination reads: \n\nHis nomination to be Secretary of Energy was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate on January 20, 2009. On January 21, 2009, Chu was sworn in as Secretary of Energy in the Barack Obama administration. Chu is the first person appointed to the U.S. Cabinet after having won a Nobel Prize. He is also the second Chinese American to be a member of the U.S. Cabinet, after former Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao.\n\nHis scientific work continued, however, and he even published a paper on gravitational redshift in \"Nature\" in February 2010 and another one he co-authored in July 2010.\n\nIn March 2011 Chu said that regulators at the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission should not delay approving construction licenses for planned U.S. nuclear power plants in the wake of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in Japan.\n\nIn August 2011 Chu praised an advisory panel report on curbing the environmental risks of natural-gas development. Chu responded to the panel's report on hydraulic fracturing, the controversial drilling method that is enabling a U.S. gas boom while bringing fears of groundwater contamination. The report called for better data collection of air and water data, as well as \"rigorous\" air pollution standards and mandatory disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Chu said that he would \"be working closely with my colleagues in the Administration to review the recommendations and to chart a path for continued development of this vital energy resource in a safe manner\".\n\nChu faced controversy for a statement he made prior to being appointed, claiming in a September 2008 interview with the Wall Street Journal that \"somehow we have to figure out how to boost the price of gasoline to the levels in Europe.\" However, in March 2012 he retracted this comment, saying \"since I walked in the door as secretary of Energy I've been doing everything in my powers to do what we can to … reduce those prices\" and that he \"no longer shares the view [that we need to figure out how to boost gasoline prices in America]\".\n\nOn February 12, 2013, Chu was the designated survivor during the State of the Union address.\n\nOn February 1, 2013, Chu announced his intent to resign. In his resignation announcement, he warned of the risks of climate change from continued reliance on fossil fuels, and wrote, \"the Stone Age did not end because we ran out of stones; we transitioned to better solutions\". He resigned on April 22, 2013.\n\nChu has been a vocal advocate for more research into renewable energy and nuclear power, arguing that a shift away from fossil fuels is essential to combat climate change and global warming. He also spoke at the 2009 and 2011 National Science Bowl about the importance of America's science students, emphasizing their future role in environmental planning and global initiative. Chu said that a typical coal power plant emits 100 times more radiation than a nuclear power plant.\n\nChu warns that global warming could wipe out California farms within the century.\n\nHe joined the Copenhagen Climate Council, an international collaboration between business and science established to create momentum for the 2009 UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nIn 2015, Chu signed the \"Mainau Declaration 2015 on Climate Change\" on the final day of the 65th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting. The declaration was signed by a total of 76 Nobel Laureates and handed to then-President of the French Republic, François Hollande, as part of the successful COP21 climate summit in Paris.\n\nChu was instrumental in submitting a winning bid for the Energy Biosciences Institute, a BP-funded $500 million multidisciplinary collaboration between UC Berkeley, the Lawrence Berkeley Lab, and the University of Illinois. This sparked controversy on the Berkeley campus, where some fear the alliance could harm the school's reputation for academic integrity.\n\nBased partially on his research at UC Berkeley, Chu has speculated that a global \"glucose economy\", a form of a low-carbon economy, could replace the current system. In the future, special varieties of high-glucose plants would be grown in the tropics, processed, and then the chemical would be shipped around like oil is today to other countries. \"The St. Petersburg Times\" has stated that Chu's concept \"shows vision on the scale needed to deal with global warming\".\n\nChu has also advocated making the roofs of buildings and the tops of roads around the world white or other light colors, which may reflect sunlight back into space and mitigate global warming. The effect would be, according to Chu, similar to taking every car in the world off the roads for about 11 years. Samuel Thernstrom, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute and co-director of its Geoengineering Project, expressed support for the idea in \"The American\", praising Chu for \"do[ing] the nation a service\" with the concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24214715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24214715", "title": "Temple denial", "text": "Temple denial\n\nTemple denial refers to the assertion that none of the Temples in Jerusalem ever existed or were not located on the Temple Mount. Israeli writer David Hazony has described the phenomenon as \"a campaign of intellectual erasure [by Palestinian leaders, writers, and scholars] ... aimed at undermining the Jewish claim to any part of the land\", and compared the phenomenon to Holocaust denial. Daniel Levin calls Temple denial a \"relatively new phenomenon\" that \"has become a central tenet of Palestinian nationalism\". He stated: \"The Islamic land trust is destroying Judeo-Christian ruins beneath the Temple Mount so as to deny any connection between Judaism and Christianity and Jerusalem.\"\n\nDore Gold, president of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs and former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations, used the term \"Temple denial\" in his 2007 book, \"The Fight for Jerusalem: Radical Islam, the West, and the Future of the Holy City\".\n\nThe \"New York Times\" noted that \"Temple denial, increasingly common among Palestinian leaders, also has a long history: After Israel became a state in 1948, the Waqf removed from its guidebooks all references to King Solomon's Temple, whose location at the site it had previously said was \"beyond dispute.\"\"\n\nAccording to Gold and Dennis Ross, at the 2000 Camp David Summit Yasser Arafat insisted that \"the Temple\" existed near Nablus, not on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem. And in the recollection of Ehud Barak, referring to a conversation he had with Clinton, Arafat said to the US President, \"there is nothing there [i.e., no trace of a temple on the Temple Mount].\" \n\nRoss later wrote about an August 2000 meeting he had with Arafat: \"Since we would be discussing the options on the Haram, I anticipated that Arafat might well again declare that the Temple—the most sacred place in Jewish tradition—did not exist in Jerusalem, but was in Nablus... I wanted Gamal, a Christian of Coptic origin who was originally from Egypt, to tell Arafat that this was an outrageous attempt to delegitimize the Israeli connection to Jerusalem... Finally, after nearly ten minutes of increasing invective, I intervened and said 'Mr. Chairman, regardless of what you think, the President of the United States \"knows\" that the Temple existed in Jerusalem. If he hears you denying its existence there, he will never again take you seriously. My advice to you is never again raise this issue in his presence.'\"\n\nAccording to Gold, in the wake of Arafat's remark at Camp David, Temple denial \"spread across the Middle East like wildfire\", and even \"subtly slipped into the writing of Middle-East based western reporters\".\n\nIn 2005, in a book entitled \"From Jerusalem to Mecca and Back; The Islamic Consolidation of Jerusalem\", Yitzhak Reiter describes the growing tendency of Islamic authorities to deny the existence of the Jewish Temples on the Temple Mount, characterizing it as part of a campaign to increase the status of Jerusalem and the Temple mount in Islam as part of the effort to make Jerusalem a Muslim city under Arab governance. According to Reiter, this narrative \"reflects the mainstream in many Islamic communities around the world\", and is promoted by \"religious figures, politicians, academics and journalists\".\n\nNot all Islamic scholars accept Temple denialism. Imam Abdul Hadi Palazzi, leader of the Italian Muslim Assembly and a co-founder and a co-chairman of the Islam-Israel Fellowship, quotes the Quran to support Judaism's special connection to the Temple Mount. According to Palazzi, \"[t]he most authoritative Islamic sources affirm the Temples\". He adds that Jerusalem is sacred to Muslims because of its prior holiness to Jews and its standing as home to the biblical prophets and kings David and Solomon, all of whom he says are sacred figures also in Islam. He claims that the Quran \"expressly recognizes that Jerusalem plays the same role for Jews that Mecca has for Muslims\".\n\nIn October 2015, the \"New York Times\" published an article stating that \"The question, which many books and scholarly treatises have never definitely answered, is whether the 37-acre site, home to Islam's sacred Dome of the Rock shrine and al-Aqsa Mosque, was also the precise location of two ancient Jewish temples, one built on the remains of the other, and both long since gone.\" Within a few days, the newspaper responded to feedback by changing the text to \"The question, which many books and scholarly treatises have never definitively answered, is where on the 37-acre site, home to Islam’s sacred Dome of the Rock shrine and Al Aqsa Mosque, was the precise location of two ancient Jewish temples, one built on the remains of the other, and both long since gone.\" A few weeks later, the newspaper further corrected the story, backdating the Islamic waqf that controls the site from 1967 to 1187.\n\n"}
{"id": "2570211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2570211", "title": "Titan Rain", "text": "Titan Rain\n\nTitan Rain was the designation given by the federal government of the United States to a series of coordinated attacks on American computer systems since 2003; they were known to have been ongoing for at least three years. The attacks were labeled as Chinese in origin, although their precise nature, e.g., state-sponsored espionage, corporate espionage, or random hacker attacks, and their real identities – masked by proxy, zombie computer, spyware/virus infected – remain unknown. The activity known as \"Titan Rain\" is believed to be associated with an Advanced Persistent Threat.\n\nTitan Rain hackers gained access to many United States defense contractor computer networks who were targeted for their sensitive information, including those at Lockheed Martin, Sandia National Laboratories, Redstone Arsenal, and NASA.\n\nThe series of attacks are believed by some to be the actions of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), rather than some freelance Chinese hackers. These hackers attacked both the American (\"Defense Intelligence Agency\" – DOD) and British Government Departments (Ministry of Defence – MOD). The British government had an incident in 2006 where a part of the House of Commons computer system was shut down by - initially thought to be an individual – an “organised Chinese hacking group.”\nAlthough most of the evidence has pointed to the Chinese government as the attackers, the Chinese government has claimed that it was not them who attacked the United States, leading to another possibility that it was hackers using Chinese computers.\n\n‘Titan Rain’ has caused friction between the U.S. and Chinese governments, and the U.S. government has blamed the Chinese government for the attacks of 2004 on the unclassified, although potentially fatal information. Adam Paller, SANS Institute research director, stated that the attacks came from individuals with “intense discipline,” and that, “no other organisation could do this if they were not a military”. Such sophistication and evidence has pointed toward the Chinese military (People’s Liberation Army) as the attackers. \n‘Titan Rain’ reportedly attacked multiple high-end political systems, such as NASA and the FBI. Although no sensitive and classified information was reported stolen, the hackers were however able to steal unclassified information (e.g. information from a home computer). The fact that the information was classified or not was somewhat irrelevant; when it all comes together it could reveal the strengths and weaknesses of the U.S., making such an attack very damaging.\n‘Titan Rain’ has caused distrust between other countries (such as the United Kingdom and Russia – other superpowers) and China. Such distrust has occurred because these countries were likely attacked, but either did not detect an attack or have not released statements that they were attacked. The United Kingdom have stated officially that their governmental offices were attacked by hackers of a Chinese source. The events of ‘Titan Rain’ have caused the rest of the world to be more cautious of attacks; not just from China, but from other countries as well, thereby causing, however small, a slight distrust between other countries. This distrust between them may affect future agreements and dealings and as such further affect their relationship with China.\n\nOne alternative to the People’s Liberation Army carrying out the attacks is hackers using Chinese computers and websites to carry out the attack. It has been long known that many Chinese computers and websites are very insecure. Hackers use the website/system to attack a targeted system. This makes it look as if it was a Chinese system attacking the target, and not the hacker. This method allows a hacker to attack a system without his/her location being revealed. People’s Republic of China (PRC) have argued that this method had been used to attack the U.S. and other locations targeted by ‘Titan Rain’. This has, however, sparked controversy as to who actually caused the events of ‘Titan Rain’ – the Chinese or a bored hacker?\n\nIn addition, to support Adam Paller’s idea of the attackers having to be a large, organised body with “intense discipline,” it is possible such an organisation could have exploited these insecure computers, servers and websites to attempt to steal sensitive information from the United States and other targets. \nA rogue state and/or a large, sophisticated collection of hackers could have used these insecurities in China’s computers to attack the targets, rather than China themselves being the attacker. Using this method of using China’s computers means that this organisation can hide themselves while making an effective attack, all with relative ease. Such a plot protects the hackers but put the Chinese government in a predicament where they cannot prove that they did not do the attack, causing tensions between the United States and China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51717289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51717289", "title": "Turkmen Brigades (Popular Mobilization Units)", "text": "Turkmen Brigades (Popular Mobilization Units)\n\nThe Turkmen Brigades are Iraqi Turkmen militias as part of the Popular Mobilization Forces formed in 2014.\n\nThe group's commander, Said Yilmaz Najar, rejected proposals of an unified Turkmen militia from the Iraqi Turkmen Front, saying that his group has both Shia and Sunni Turkmen.\n\nOn 25 September 2016, 16th Brigade has announced that the militias will participate the Hawija Offensive.\n"}
{"id": "18538544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18538544", "title": "Young Gifted and Talented Programme", "text": "Young Gifted and Talented Programme\n\nThe Young, Gifted & Talented Programme (YG&T) was a United Kingdom government scheme that aimed to enhance the educational development of students between the ages of 4 and 19. The scheme was established in 2002, and scrapped in 2010 in favour of reallocating funds to help disadvantaged students get into University.\n\nWithin the scheme, a young and gifted individual is defined as: \"...children and young people with one or more abilities developed to a level significantly ahead of their year group (or with the potential to develop those abilities)”.\n\nEntrance to the scheme is via a validation process performed by the student's school or college and is based on criteria including:\n\n\nWhile the onus is on schools to determine the size of their gifted and talented population, clear justification for the size of the group and the benefit to all members must be clearly identified. The DCSF uses 10% of any given school population as the assumption of size during the planning process.\n\nThe operations of the programme are outsourced to the CfBT Education Trust who took over the National Programme for Gifted and Talented Education in September 2007 and renamed it to the Young, Gifted & Talented.\n\nThe program also supports the activities of private organisations in providing training activities and materials to the identified student groups.\n\n"}
