{"id": "44729903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44729903", "title": "2014 Sundarbans oil spill", "text": "2014 Sundarbans oil spill\n\nThe 2014 Sundarbans oil spill was an oil spill that occurred on 9 December 2014 at the Shela River in Sundarbans, Bangladesh, a UNESCO World Heritage site. The spill occurred when an oil-tanker named \"Southern Star VII\", carrying of furnace oil, was in collision with a cargo vessel and sank in the river. By December 17, the oil had spread over a area. The oil spread to a second river and a network of canals in Sundarbans, which blackened the shoreline. The spill threatened trees, plankton, and vast populations of small fish and dolphins. The spill occurred at a protected mangrove area, home to rare Irrawaddy and Ganges dolphins. By 12 January 2015, of oil had been cleaned up by local residents, the Bangladesh Navy, and the government of Bangladesh.\n\nThe collision between the oil tanker and the cargo vessel occurred at the Shela River in Sundarbans, Khulna Division, Bangladesh. The site is near Mongla Port, and is about from Kolkata Port. The oil tanker was at anchor at the confluence between the Shela River and the Passur River in dense fog when the cargo vessel collided with it at 5am on December 9, 2014. The site is in a protected mangrove area, home to rare Irrawaddy and Ganges dolphins.\n\nSeven crew members of the sunken ship managed to swim ashore, but the captain of the ship, Mokhlesur Rahman, died, and his body was recovered a few kilometers away from the spot where the ship sank. Experts estimated that was lost as a result of the sinking of the oil-tanker. The residents of the surrounding area are at a health risk. \nThe government of Bangladesh told the local residents to collect the oil and sell it to the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation. The local oil collectors faced health risks and various skin diseases, including hair fallout if furnace oil mixed with water contacts a person's face or hair.\n\nEnvironmentalists warned that the event was an ecological \"catastrophe\", as the spill occurred at a protected area where rare dolphins were present. Experts expressed concerns that the oil spill will hamper the well-being of the aquatic organisms in the area. Wildlife near the river are at a risk of death, because the smell of oil makes breathing difficult. Some images indicate that the disaster killed some animals.\n\nOn 13 December 2014, a dead Irrawaddy dolphin was seen floating on the Harintana-Tembulbunia channel of the Shela River. However, it was not confirmed that the dolphin's death was caused by the oil spill. According to the local residents, few dolphins have been seen in the area since the oil spill.\nOriental small-clawed otter (\"Amblonyx cinereus\") aquatic carnivore animal lives in the aquatic ecosystem of Sundarbans. On 18 December 2014, two dead otters were recovered from the Shela River by forest department workers. An autopsy of the two otters confirmed that they had died from ingesting oil. The otter is considered to be an endangered species, and has been included in the International Union for Conservation of Nature endangered list.\n\nA team of forest department workers saw crocodiles, monitor lizards and many other animals smeared with oil at the Chandpai range of the Sundarbans.\n\nThe oil spill is also posing a major threat to the forest's food cycle. Reports from various sources showed that the microorganisms, the primary level of the food cycle, are dying. The United Nations expressed deep concern over the oil spill, urging the government of Bangladesh to impose a \"complete ban\" on commercial vessels moving through the forest.\n\nShajahan Khan, the shipping minister of Bangladesh, told Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha that he has talked with environmental experts, and they said that there will likely be no major damage as a result of the oil spill. Researchers said that Khan's claim was \"unscientific and misleading\".\n\nTen species that are at risk as a result of the spill have been listed by The National Geographic Traveler. These species are the Irrawady dolphins, Bengal tigers, leopards, great egrets, rhesus macaques, northern river terrapins, black-capped kingfishers, chitals, saltwater crocodiles, and horseshoe crabs.\nThe presence of White Rumped Vulture (\"Gyps bengalensis\") over the Sundarbans sky also indicated the large scale death of wild fauna. The secondary\neffect of oil spill is always much greater than the primary effects.\n\nAfter the spill, primarily Bangladeshi fishermen began to clean up the oil using sponges and sacks. Padma Oil Company, a government-owned corporation, bought the oil at a price of 30 takas per litre. The Bangladeshi navy initially sent four ships to deal with the spill, and planned to use chemicals to disperse the oil, but the plan was canceled, as there were concerns that dispersing the oil would further damage the ecology and biodiversity of the mangrove forest. The government of Bangladesh closed the Shela River to all vessels. The owner of the sunken oil tanker, MS Harun & Co., began salvage efforts, assisted by three private rescue vessels. The Bangladesh Forest Department filed a 1 billion taka lawsuit against the owners of the two cargo ships involved in the collision. By 12 January 2015, the government, with the help of local residents, the Bangladesh Navy, and the owner of the oil tanker, had collected of oil. The Bangladesh government said that they do not have the capacity to manage oil spills.\n\nThe Economic Relations Division of the Bangladesh government sent a letter to the United Nation's Bangladesh office on 15 December 2014, asking for help in the oil collection efforts. The United Nations accepted the request, and a team from the UNEP and OCHA went to the site of the spill. A team from the United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination arrived in the Dhaka to support the cleanup efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1482062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482062", "title": "About-Picard law", "text": "About-Picard law\n\nThe 2001 About-Picard law [abu pika:r] (named after French parliament members Nicolas About and Catherine Picard), a controversial piece of French legislation, broadly speaking, makes it possible to act against organisations (legal entities) when such organisations have become involved in certain crimes. The law, in its own words, aimed at movements deemed cultic (\"mouvements sectaires\") that \"undermine human rights and fundamental freedoms\". The law has caused controversy internationally, with some commentators alleging that it infringes religious freedom while proponents content it reinforces religious freedom.\n\nFreedom of religion and separation of church and state have formed part of the French idea of the state since at least the French Revolution and in some ways long before, since the 16th century period of the Reformation and of the Wars of Religion. Separation of religion and state in France takes the form of \"laïcité\", by which political power avoids interference in the sphere of religious dogma, and religion avoids interference in public policies. The French understand \"freedom of religion\" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches. Also, because of a long history of one single dominating church (the Catholic Church), the French state sees its duty less in protecting religion from state interference than in protecting the individual from interference by religion.\n\nIn the wake of the Order of the Solar Temple murders and suicides, the French Parliament established the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France to investigate cults. In December 1995 the Commission delivered a report on cults which caused much controversy, some of it due to a list extracted from a report by the French National Police on purported cults. (The Commission assimilated information and analysis from the French police secret service, the Renseignements généraux.)\n\nFollowing the recommendations of the report, Prime Minister Alain Juppé set up in 1996 the \"Interministerial board of observation of sects\", followed in 1998 by the \"Interministerial Mission in the Fight Against Sects\" (MILS). In 2002 the \"Interministerial Monitoring Mission Against Sectarian Abuses\" (MIVILUDES) replaced MILS.\n\nOther action of the French government against potential abuses by cults resulted in the passing of the About-Picard law.\n\nCommentators often refer to the Law 2001-504 of June 12, 2001 as the About-Picard law, from the name of its \"rapporteurs\" (parliamentarians who report upon the draft law), senator Nicolas About (UDF center-right party) and deputy Catherine Picard (PS center-left party).\n\nThe French parliament adopted the law with broad cross-party support under the government of center-right president Jacques Chirac and socialist prime minister Lionel Jospin.\n\nArticle 223-15-2 of Penal code:(Act no. 2001-504 of 12 June 2001, article 10 Official Journal of 13 June 2001 ; Ordinance No. 2000-916 of 19 September 2000, article 3 Official Journal of 22 September 2000, into force 1 January 2002) \n« Fraudulently abusing the ignorance or state of weakness of a minor, or of a person whose particular vulnerability, due to age, sickness, infirmity, to a physical or psychological disability or to pregnancy, is apparent or known to the offender, or abusing a person in a state of physical or psychological dependency resulting from serious or repeated pressure or from techniques used to affect his judgement, in order to induce the minor or other person to act or abstain from acting in any way seriously harmful to him, is punished by three years' imprisonment and a fine of € 375,000.\nWhere the offence is committed by the legal or de facto manager of a group that carries out activities the aim or effect of which is to create, maintain or exploit the psychological or physical dependency of those who participate in them, the penalty is increased to five years' imprisonment and to a fine of € 750,000. »\n\nThe additional penalties that natural or legal persons may incur are mentioned in the following articles 223-15-3 and 4.\n\nNotable new points introduced by the law include:\nThe initial draft of the About-Picard law included the criminalization of \"mental manipulation\". Many organizations criticised this clause for its vagueness. Minister of Justice Élisabeth Guigou pushed for the removal of this clause, which the legislators excluded from the final version of the law. However, the law makes it a crime to defraud a person weakened by illness, old age, etc., but also of a person in a state of \"psychological or physical subjection resulting from grave or reiterated pressures or techniques able to alter judgement\".\n\nThere was one famous application of the law since its adoption: that of Arnaud Mussy, leader of the tiny \"Néo-Phare\" (New Lighthouse) cult. Mussy, who claims that he is the Christ, had announced imminent apocalypse, resulting in the suicide of one of his followers and the attempted suicides of two others, who were severely wounded in 2001. The criminal court in Nantes sentenced him to three years in prison and 90,000 FF damages in November 2004. It ruled that he had \"abused fraudulently the state of ignorance and weakness of several persons in the state of bodily or mental dependence\". A higher court in Rennes confirmed the sentence in July 2005.\n\nThe French government, when challenged on issues of religious discrimination, states that it has no concern in any way with religious doctrine \"per se\". The government has taken the position that it will deal with the concrete consequences of cult affiliation, especially with respect to children. The government sees this as particularly important in the light of past abuse committed in some criminal cults, such as sexual slavery and mass suicide. According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.\n\nCritics of the law see this as merely a semantic change and maintain that no empirical studies support claims of the use of techniques of coercive persuasion by NRMs.\n\nThe Bishop of Soissons, Marcel Herriot, defended the law on 25 June 2000 asserting it was necessary to protect by law persons, family, society and religions themselves from sects that are violating fundamental freedoms and human dignity.\n\nSome groups claim that the Parliamentary Reports and the controversy surrounding the About-Picard law have created an unhealthy atmosphere, resulting in minority religious groups suffering from excessively strict, uneven, or even abusive discrimination in the application of other laws by local authorities. For example, the group \"Coordination des Associations et Particuliers pour la Liberté de Conscience\" (Co-ordination of Associations and Individuals for Freedom of Conscience) requested the repeal of the law, asserting laws should not specify groups as \"sectarian\" or \"cultic\" as, in a democracy. However, an OSCE report has described this group as a partisan \n\nThe umbrella association of French Jehovah's Witnesses sued the French government in the ECHR in case #53430/99, alleging that the publication of the parliamentary reports and the enactment of the About-Picard law infringed its civil rights. The court rejected the application.\n\nIn other cases (#53934/00), the Court affirmed that the publication of a Parliamentary Report disparaging to some groups did not constitute an infringement of human rights, even though these groups were not given a legal recourse for the removal of their name from the report.\n\nHuman rights activists dubbed the law \"un délit d'opinion\" (a thought crime).\n\nForty different religious and human-rights groups submitted a petition to the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly. This petition led to a report (Report 9612 of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of Europe) containing an expert paper by Swiss professor Joseph Voyame, who concluded:\nVoyame deduces that the law clearly responds to a need, that the measure of dissolution appears radical, but also effective and reliable, and that judicial guarantees surround it. He also discusses the title with its mentioning of \"cultic groups\", but comes to the conclusion that the uncertainty regarding the definition has little importance:\nThe title is undeniably part of the [Act], but has no legislative authority in itself. Although it may be useful for the purposes of interpretation, it cannot be used in making a ruling that runs counter to a clear legal provision [...] As we will see, [Sections] 1, 19 and 20 of this [Act] identify the targeted incorporated organizations and groups with the greatest possible precision. It is these standard-setting texts that are decisive.\nThe report discussed several objections regarding the word \"secte\" (cult):\n... the word ‘sect’ has taken on an extremely pejorative connotation. In the eyes of the public, it stigmatises movements whose activities are dangerous either for their members or for society. Today, the world contains dozens, perhaps even hundreds, of groups both large and small, all with various beliefs and observances, which are not necessarily dangerous or prejudicial to freedom. It is true that among these groups are some which have committed criminal acts. Nevertheless, the existence of a few dangerous movements is not enough to condemn all the rest (...)\nThe report concluded:\nThe act for the most part simply reiterates existing provisions in the Criminal Code, the Code of Consumption, the Code of Public Health and the New Code of Civil Procedure and does so for a precise purpose in conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights, as we have just seen. Consequently, even if it had been possible to achieve the same objective by recourse to existing provisions, there is nothing to prevent the passing of an act which has the advantage of grouping together all the provisions necessary to achieve that objective.\nIn November 2002, the Council of Europe passed a resolution inviting the Government of France to reconsider the About-Picard Law and to clarify certain terms in the law. It referred, however, to the Recommendation 1412 (1999) on the illegal activities of sects, where it had concluded that it was \"essential to ensure that the activities of groups, whatever religious, esoteric or spiritual description they adopted, were in keeping with the principles of democratic societies and, in particular, the provisions of Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).\" and it stated that \"ultimately, should the case arise, it will be for the European Court of Human Rights, and it alone, to say whether or not this law is compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.\" .\n\nIn an open letter dated June 2000 to Alain Vivien about religious freedom in France, Aaron Rhodes, Executive Director of the International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights (IHFHR), wrote:\nWe question ourselves how such a law can claim to guarantee human rights when it goes against the rights of association, expression, religion and conscience; when it puts in danger the right of minorities and maintains prejudices that are so incompatible with the concept of tolerance intrinsic to that of human rights. France must deal with its responsibilities and obligations as a signatory for the International Conventions and respect the European laws and its interpretation by the Court of Strasbourg, before one of its citizens become a victim of discrimination due to the law which you propose.\nAlain Vivien responded: \"[The IHFHR] seems today to have passed into the hands of Scientologists and perhaps other transnational organizations\". Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge. Rhodes voiced his embarrassment: \"[...]for you and your fellow French citizens by your recourse to methods of denunciations and insinuations that remind us of those sometimes used by totalitarian and backward regimes.\"\n\nSome groups sought the help of their governments to fight what they saw as religious intolerance in France. In the United States, the Church of Scientology utilised pressure groups against the French government, and had some success with the Clinton administration, which repeatedly brought the matter before the French government.\n\nAccording to pastor Jean-Arnold de Clermont, head of the French Protestant federation and himself a strong critic of the first draft of the law, the complaints originating in the United States concerning religious freedom in France were largely based on biased, poor information.\n\nAccording to a newspaper article published in \"The Guardian\" in June 2000, the French government considered American interference regarding religious freedom in France as unwarranted meddling by the US government in France's internal affairs. Paul Webster wrote that President Jacques Chirac told Clinton that religious freedom would no longer be a subject for bilateral presidential talks, \"in the light of what has been officially described as 'shocking' White House support for Scientologists and Moonies\". The French government also described the United States Congress's introduction of laws protecting religious freedom internationally as \"an unacceptable intrusion into internal affairs\". Alain Vivien, former chairman of the French ministerial mission to combat the influence of cults (MILS), and the president of the \"Centre Contre les Manipulations Mentales\" (Centre Against Mental Manipulation), said many observers believed that Clinton was making his peace with big religious movements, \"because they offer an indispensable source of political financing\", and that with the help of Scientologists, cults were infiltrating UN and European human rights associations and collaborating on virulent reports against France's policies.\n\nThe French did not alter their law following these requests; and the claims and actions of the US government regarding the religious situation in France largely ceased with the Bush administration.\n\nSome critics of French legislation have voiced concerns that countries which do not have the same legal safeguards and constitutional rights as France may emulate this legislation. In the words of a US official:\nYet the law itself remains problematic not only because of the threat the language carries in France, but because it is even now being considered for emulation by countries that lack France’s commitment to rule of law and human rights. Such a model serves only too well as cover for those nations who persecute under the guise of law enforcement.\nOn 15 September 2006 the United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor released a report on religious freedom in France. This report noted that \"The constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.\" It reported mostly anonymous concerns over repression of religious freedom in France, notably in regards to what the report referred to in one case as \"cult groups\", as well as the law banning religious symbols in schools, and rising anti-semitism in France.\n\n\n\n\n\"All texts in French.\"\n\n\"All texts in French.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149170", "title": "Academy", "text": "Academy\n\nAn academy (Attic Greek: Ἀκαδήμεια; Koine Greek Ἀκαδημία) is an institution of secondary education, higher learning, research, or honorary membership.\nThe term academia refers to the worldwide human group composed of professors and researchers at institutes of higher learning.\n\nThe name traces back to Plato's school of philosophy, founded approximately 385 BC at Akademia, a sanctuary of Athena, the goddess of wisdom and skill, north of Athens, Greece.\n\nThe word comes from the \"Academy\" in ancient Greece, which derives from the Athenian hero, \"Akademos\". Outside the city walls of Athens, the gymnasium was made famous by Plato as a center of learning. The sacred space, dedicated to the goddess of wisdom, Athena, had formerly been an olive grove, hence the expression \"the groves of Academe.\"\n\nIn these gardens, the philosopher Plato conversed with followers. Plato developed his sessions into a method of teaching philosophy and in 387 BC, established what is known today as the Old Academy.\n\nBy extension \"academia\" has come to mean the cultural accumulation of knowledge, its development and transmission across generations and its practitioners and transmitters. In the 17th century, British, Italian and French scholars used the term to describe types of institutions of higher learning.\n\nBefore \"Akademia\" was a school, and even before Cimon enclosed its precincts with a wall, it contained a sacred grove of olive trees dedicated to Athena, the goddess of wisdom, outside the city walls of ancient Athens. The archaic name for the site was \"Hekademia\", which by classical times evolved into \"Akademia\" and was explained, at least as early as the beginning of the 6th century BC, by linking it to an Athenian hero, a legendary \"Akademos\". The site of \"Akademia\" was sacred to Athena and other immortals.\n\nPlato's immediate successors as \"scholarch\" of \"Akademia\" were Speusippus (347–339 BC), Xenocrates (339–314 BC), Polemon (314–269 BC), Crates (ca. 269–266 BC), and Arcesilaus (ca. 266–240 BC). Later scholarchs include Lacydes of Cyrene, Carneades, Clitomachus, and Philo of Larissa (\"the last undisputed head of the Academy\"). Other notable members of \"Akademia\" include Aristotle, Heraclides Ponticus, Eudoxus of Cnidus, Philip of Opus, Crantor, and Antiochus of Ascalon.\n\nAfter a lapse during the early Roman occupation, \"Akademia\" was refounded as a new institution of some outstanding Platonists of late antiquity who called themselves \"successors\" (\"diadochoi\", but of Plato) and presented themselves as an uninterrupted tradition reaching back to Plato. However, there cannot have actually been any geographical, institutional, economic or personal continuity with the original Academy in the new organizational entity.\n\nThe last \"Greek\" philosophers of the revived \"Akademia\" in the 6th century were drawn from various parts of the Hellenistic cultural world and suggest the broad syncretism of the common culture (see \"koine\"): Five of the seven \"Akademia\" philosophers mentioned by Agathias were Syriac in their cultural origin: Hermias and Diogenes (both from Phoenicia), Isidorus of Gaza, Damascius of Syria, Iamblichus of Coele-Syria and perhaps even Simplicius of Cilicia.\n\nThe emperor Justinian closed the school in AD 529, a date that is often cited as the end of Antiquity. According to the sole witness, the historian Agathias, its remaining members looked for protection under the rule of Sassanid king Khosrau I in his capital at Ctesiphon, carrying with them precious scrolls of literature and philosophy, and to a lesser degree of science. After a peace treaty between the Persian and the Byzantine empire in 532 guaranteed their personal security (an early document in the history of freedom of religion), some members found sanctuary in the pagan stronghold of Harran, near Edessa. One of the last leading figures of this group was Simplicius, a pupil of Damascius, the last head of the Athenian school.\n\nIt has been speculated that \"Akademia\" did not altogether disappear. After his exile, Simplicius (and perhaps some others), may have travelled to Harran, near Edessa. From there, the students of an Academy-in-exile could have survived into the 9th century, long enough to facilitate the Arabic revival of the Neoplatonist commentary tradition in Baghdad.\n\nIn ancient Greece, after the establishment of the original Academy, Plato's colleagues and pupils developed spin-offs of his method. Arcesilaus, a Greek student of Plato established the Middle Academy. Carneades, another student, established the New Academy. In 335 BC, Aristotle refined the method with his own theories and established the Lyceum in another gymnasium.\n\nThe library of Alexandria in Egypt was frequented by intellectuals from Africa, Europe and Asia studying various aspects of philosophy, language and mathematics.\n\nThe University of Timbuktu was a medieval university in Timbuktu, present-day Mali, which comprised three schools: the Mosque of Djinguereber, the Mosque of Sidi Yahya, and the Mosque of Sankore. During its zenith, the university had an average attendance of around 25,000 students within a city of around 100,000 people.\n\nIn China a higher education institution Shang Xiang was founded by Shun in the Youyu era before the 21st century BC. The Imperial Central Academy at Nanjing, founded in 258, was a result of the evolution of Shang Xiang and it became the first comprehensive institution combining education and research and was divided into five faculties in 470, which later became Nanjing University.\n\nIn the 8th century another kind of institution of learning emerged, named Shuyuan, which were generally privately owned. There were thousands of Shuyuan recorded in ancient times. The degrees from them varied from one to another and those advanced Shuyuan such as Bailudong Shuyuan and Yuelu Shuyuan can be classified as higher institutions of learning.\n\nTaxila or Takshashila, in ancient India, modern-day Pakistan, was an early centre of learning, near present-day Islamabad in the city of Taxila. It is considered as one of the ancient universities of the world. According to scattered references which were only fixed a millennium later it may have dated back to at least the 5th century BC. Some scholars date Takshashila's existence back to the 6th century BC. The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was most likely still provided on an individualistic basis. Takshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the 5th century AD.\n\nIt became a noted centre of learning at least several centuries BC, and continued to attract students until the destruction of the city in the 5th century AD. Takshashila is perhaps best known because of its association with Chanakya. The famous treatise Arthashastra (Sanskrit for The knowledge of Economics) by Chanakya, is said to have been composed in Takshashila itself. Chanakya (or Kautilya), the Maurya Emperor Chandragupta and the Ayurvedic healer Charaka studied at Taxila.\n\nGenerally, a student entered Takshashila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.\n\nNalanda was established in the 5th century AD in Bihar, India. It was founded in 427 in northeastern India, not far from what is today the southern border of Nepal. It survived until 1197 when it was set upon, destroyed and burnt by the marauding forces of Ikhtiyar Uddin Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji. It was devoted to Buddhist studies, but it also trained students in fine arts, medicine, mathematics, astronomy, politics and the art of war.\n\nThe center had eight separate compounds, 10 temples, meditation halls, classrooms, lakes and parks. It had a nine-story library where monks meticulously copied books and documents so that individual scholars could have their own collections. It had dormitories for students, perhaps a first for an educational institution, housing 10,000 students in the university’s heyday and providing accommodation for 2,000 professors. Nalanda University attracted pupils and scholars from Korea, Japan, China, Tibet, Indonesia, Persia and Turkey.\n\nFounded in Fes, University of Al-Karaouine in the 9th century and in Cairo, Al-Azhar University in the 10th century, and in Mali, the University of Timbuktu in about 1100. Mustansiriya Madrasah in Baghdad, Iraq was established in 1227 as a madrasah by the Abbasid Caliph al-Mustansir. Its library had an initial collection of 80,000 volumes, given by the Caliph. The collection was said to have grown to 400,000 volumes.\n\nIn Europe, the academy dates to the ancient Greeks and Romans in the pre-Christian era. Newer universities were founded in the 12th and 13th centuries, and the European institution of academia took shape. Monks and priests moved out of monasteries to cathedral cities and other towns where they opened the first schools dedicated to advanced study.\n\nThe most notable of these new schools were in Bologna, Salamanca, Paris, Oxford and Cambridge, while others were opened throughout Europe.\n\nThe seven liberal arts — the Trivium (Grammar, Rhetoric, and Logic), and the Quadrivium (Arithmetic, Geometry, Music, and Astronomy) — had been codified in late antiquity. This was the basis of the curriculum in Europe until newly available Arabic texts and the works of Aristotle became more available in Europe in the 12th century.\n\nIt remained in place even after the new scholasticism of the School of Chartres and the encyclopedic work of Thomas Aquinas, until the humanism of the 15th and 16th centuries opened new studies of arts and sciences.\n\nWith the Neoplatonist revival that accompanied the revival of humanist studies, \"accademia\" took on newly vivid connotations.\n\nDuring the Florentine Renaissance, Cosimo de' Medici took a personal interest in the new Platonic Academy that he determined to re-establish in 1439, centered on the marvellous promise shown by the young Marsilio Ficino. Cosimo had been inspired by the arrival at the otherwise ineffective Council of Florence of Gemistos Plethon, who seemed a dazzling figure to the Florentine intellectuals. In 1462 Cosimo gave Ficino a villa at Careggi for the Academy's use, situated where Cosimo could see it from his own villa, and drop by for visits. The academy remained a wholly informal group, but one which had a great influence on Renaissance Neo-Platonism.\nIn Rome, after unity was restored following the Western Schism, humanist circles, cultivating philosophy and searching out and sharing ancient texts tended to gather where there was access to a library. The Vatican Library was not coordinated until 1475 and was never catalogued or widely accessible: not all popes looked with satisfaction at gatherings of unsupervised intellectuals. At the head of this movement for renewal in Rome was Cardinal Bessarion, whose house from the mid-century was the centre of a flourishing academy of Neoplatonic philosophy and a varied intellectual culture. His valuable Greek as well as Latin library (eventually bequeathed to the city of Venice after he withdrew from Rome) was at the disposal of the academicians. Bessarion, in the latter years of his life, retired from Rome to Ravenna, but he left behind him ardent adherents of the classic philosophy.\n\nThe next generation of humanists were bolder admirers of pagan culture, especially in the highly personal academy of Pomponius Leto, the natural son of a nobleman of the Sanseverino family, born in Calabria but known by his academic name, who devoted his energies to the enthusiastic study of classical antiquity, and attracted a great number of disciples and admirers. He was a worshipper not merely of the literary and artistic form, but also of the ideas and spirit of classic paganism, which made him appear a condemner of Christianity and an enemy of the Church. In his academy every member assumed a classical name. Its principal members were humanists, like Bessarion's protégé Giovanni Antonio Campani (Campanus), Bartolomeo Platina, the papal librarian, and Filippo Buonaccorsi, and young visitors who received polish in the academic circle, like Publio Fausto Andrelini of Bologna who took the New Learning to the University of Paris, to the discomfiture of his friend Erasmus. In their self-confidence, these first intellectual neopagans compromised themselves politically, at a time when Rome was full of conspiracies fomented by the Roman barons and the neighbouring princes: Paul II (1464–71) caused Pomponio and the leaders of the academy to be arrested on charges of irreligion, immorality, and conspiracy against the Pope. The prisoners begged so earnestly for mercy, and with such protestations of repentance, that they were pardoned. The Letonian academy, however, collapsed.\n\nIn Naples, the \"Quattrocento\" academy founded by Alfonso of Aragon and guided by Antonio Beccadelli was the \"Porticus Antoniana\", later known as the \"Accademia Pontaniana\", after Giovanni Pontano.\n\nThe 16th century saw at Rome a great increase of literary and aesthetic academies, more or less inspired by the Renaissance, all of which assumed, as was the fashion, odd and fantastic names. We learn from various sources the names of many such institutes; as a rule, they soon perished and left no trace. In the 1520s came the \"Accademia degli Intronati\", for the encouragement of theatrical representations. There were also the Academy of the \"Vignaiuoli\", or \"Vinegrowers\" (1530), and the \"\" (1542), founded by Claudio Tolomei under the patronage of Cardinal Ippolito de' Medici. These were followed by a new academy in the \"Orti\" or Farnese gardens. There were also the academies of the \"Intrepidi\" (1560), the \"Animosi\" (1576), and the \"Illuminati\" (1598); this last, founded by the Marchesa Isabella Aldobrandini Pallavicino. Towards the middle of the 16th century there were also the Academy of the \"Notti Vaticane\", or \"Vatican Nights\", founded by St. Charles Borromeo; an \"Accademia di Diritto civile e canonico\", and another of the university scholars and students of philosophy (Accademia Eustachiana). As a rule these academies, all very much alike, were merely circles of friends or clients gathered around a learned man or wealthy patron, and were dedicated to literary pastimes rather than methodical study. They fitted in, nevertheless, with the general situation and were in their own way one element of the historical development. Despite their empirical and fugitive character, they helped to keep up the general esteem for literary and other studies. Cardinals, prelates, and the clergy in general were most favourable to this movement, and assisted it by patronage and collaboration.\n\nIn Florence, the Medici again took the lead in establishing the Accademia e Compagnia delle Arti del Disegno in 1563, the first of the more formally organised art academies that gradually displaced the medieval artists' guilds, usually known as the Guild of Saint Luke, as the bodies responsible for training and often regulating artists, a change with great implications for the development of art, leading to the styles known as Academic art. The private Accademia degli Incamminati set up later in the century in Bologna by the Carracci brothers was also extremely influential, and with the Accademia di San Luca of Rome (founded 1593) helped to confirm the use of the term for these institutions.\n\nGradually academies began to specialize on particular topics (arts, language, sciences) and began to be founded and funded by the kings and other sovereigns (few republics had an academy). And, mainly, since 17th century academies spread throughout Europe.\n\nIn the 17th century the tradition of literary-philosophical academies, as circles of friends gathering around learned patrons, was continued in Italy; the \"Umoristi\" (1611), the \"Fantastici (1625), and the \"Ordinati\", founded by Cardinal Dati and Giulio Strozzi. About 1700 were founded the academies of the \"Infecondi\", the \"Occulti\", the \"Deboli\", the \"Aborigini\", the \"Immobili\", the \"Accademia Esquilina\", and others. During the 18th century many Italian cities established similar philosophical and scientific academies. In the first half of the 19th century some of these became the national academies of pre-unitarian states: the Academy of Accesi became the Panomitan Academy of Buon Gusto (Trento); the Academy of Timidi became the Royal Academy of Mantua; the Accademia dei Ricovrati became the Galileiana Academy of Arts and Science (Padova); the Academy of Dissonanti became the Royal Academy of Modena and the Academy of Oscuri became the Royal Academy of Lucca.\n\nThe Académie de peinture et de sculpture in Paris, established by the monarchy in 1648 (later renamed) was the most significant of the artistic academies, running the famous Salon exhibitions from 1725. Artistic academies were established all over Europe by the end of the 18th century, and many, like the Akademie der Künste in Berlin (founded 1696), the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando in Madrid (founded 1744), the Imperial Academy of Arts in Saint Petersburg (1757), the Royal Academy in London (1768) and the Accademia di Belle Arti di Brera in Milan (1776) still run art schools and hold large exhibitions, although their influence on taste greatly declined from the late 19th century.\n\nA fundamental feature of academic discipline in the artistic academies was regular practice in making accurate drawings from antiquities, or from casts of antiquities, on the one hand, and on the other, in deriving inspiration from the other fount, the human form. Students assembled in sessions drawing the draped and undraped human form, and such drawings, which survive in the tens of thousands from the 17th through the 19th century, are termed académies in French.\n\nSimilar institutions were often established for other arts: Rome had the Accademia di Santa Cecilia for music from 1585; Paris had the Académie Royale de Musique from 1669 and the Académie Royale d'Architecture from 1671.\n\nThe Accademia degli Infiammati of Padova and the Accademia degli Umidi, soon renamed the Accademia Fiorentina, of Florence were both founded in 1540, and were both initially concerned with the proper basis for literary use of the \"volgare\", or vernacular language of Italy, which would later become the Italian language. In 1582 five Florentine literati gathered and founded the Accademia della Crusca to demonstrate and conserve the beauty of the Florentine vernacular tongue, modelled upon the authors of the Trecento. The main instrument to do so was the \"Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca\". The Crusca long remained a private institution, criticizing and opposing the official Accademia Fiorentina.\n\nThe first institution inspired by the Crusca was the Fruitbearing Society for German language, which existed from 1617 to 1680.\n\nThe Crusca inspired Richelieu to found in 1634 the analogous Académie française with the task of acting as an official authority on the French language, charged with publishing the official dictionary of that language. The following year the Académie received letters patent from the king Louis XIII as the only recognized academy for French language.\n\nIn its turn the state established Académie was the model for the Real Academia Española (founded in 1713) and the Swedish Academy (1786), which are the ruling bodies of their respective languages and editors of major dictionaries. It also was the model for the Russian Academy, founded in 1783, which afterwards merged into the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nAfter the short-lived Academia Secretorum Naturae of Naples, the first academy exclusively devoted to sciences was the Accademia dei Lincei founded in 1603 in Rome, particularly focused on natural sciences.\nIn 1657 some students of Galileo founded the Accademia del Cimento (Academy of Experiment) in Florence, focused on physics and astronomy. The foundation of Academy was funded by Prince Leopoldo and Grand Duke Ferdinando II de' Medici. This academy lasted after few decades.\n\nIn 1652 was founded the Academia Naturae Curiosorum by four physicians. In 1677, Leopold I, emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, recognised the society and in 1687 he gave it the epithet \"Leopoldina\", with which is internationally famous.\nSo, it became the academy of sciences for the whole Holy Roman Empire.\n\nOn 28 November 1660, a group of scientists from and influenced by the Invisible College (gathering approximately since 1645) met at Gresham College and announced the formation of a \"College for the Promoting of Physico-Mathematical Experimental Learning\", which would meet weekly to discuss science and run experiments. In 1662 Charles II of England signed a Royal Charter which created the \"Royal Society of London\", then \"Royal Society of London for the Improvement of Natural Knowledge\".\n\nIn 1666 Colbert gathered a small group of scholars to found a scientific society in Paris. The first 30 years of the Academy's existence were relatively informal, since no statutes had as yet been laid down for the institution. In contrast to Royal Society, the Academy was founded as an organ of government. In 1699, Louis XIV gave the Academy its first rules and named it Académie royale des sciences.\n\nAlthough Prussia was a member of Holy Roman Empire, in 1700 Prince-elector Frederick III of Brandenburg founded its own Prussian Academy of Sciences upon the advice of Gottfried Leibniz, who was appointed president.\n\nDuring the 18th century many European kings followed and founded their own academy of sciences: in 1714 the Academy of Sciences of the Institute of Bologna, in 1724 the Russian Academy of Sciences, in 1731 the Royal Dublin Society, in 1735 in Tuscany, in 1739 the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, in 1742 the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters, in 1751 the Göttingen Academy of Sciences, in 1754 in Erfurt, in 1759 the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities, in 1763 the Academia Theodoro-Palatina in Heidelberg, in 1779 the Sciences Academy of Lisbon, in 1783 the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in 1782 the Accademia dei Quaranta in Rome, in 1784 in Turin.\n\nThis kind of academy lost importance after the university reform begun with the foundation of the University of Berlin, when universities were provided with laboratories and clinics, and were charged with doing experimental research.\n\nAcademic societies or learned societies began as groups of academics who worked together or presented their work to each other. These informal groups later became organized and in many cases state-approved. Membership was restricted, usually requiring approval of the current members and often total membership was limited to a specific number. The Royal Society founded in 1660 was the first such academy. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences was begun in 1780 by many of the same people prominent in the American Revolution. Academic societies served both as a forum to present and publish academic work, the role now served by academic publishing, and as a means to sponsor research and support academics, a role they still serve. Membership in academic societies is still a matter of prestige in modern academia.\n\nAt first such institutions only trained the Artillery and Military Engineering officers, like the \"Aula da Artilharia\" (founded in 1641) and the \"Aula de Fortificação\" (1647) in Lisbon, the Real Accademia di Savoia in Turin (opened in 1678), the Imperial Artillery Military Academy of Saint Petersburg (1698), the Royal Military Academy Woolwich (1741), the \"Real Colegio de Artilleria\" in Segovia (1764).\n\nStarting at the end of the 16th century in the Holy Roman Empire, France, Poland and Denmark, many Knight academies were established to prepare the aristocratic youth for state and military service. Many of them lately turned into gymnasiums, but some of them were transformed into true military academies.\n\nThe Royal Danish Military Academy began to educate all officers for the Royal Danish Army by request of King Frederick IV in 1713.\n\nThe École Militaire was founded by Louis XV of France in 1750 with the aim of creating an academic college for cadet officers from poor families. The construction began in 1752, but the school did not open until 1760.\n\nThe Theresian Military Academy was founded on 14 December 1751 by Maria Theresa of Austria. Per year the Academy accepted 100 noblemen and 100 commoners to start their education there.<br>\nThese were the model for the subsequent military academies throughout Europe, like the \"Reale Accademia Militare\" of Naples in 1787 and the Military Academy Karlberg in 1792.\n\nThe term is used widely today to refer to anything from schools to learned societies to funding agencies to private industry associations.\n\nNational academies are bodies for scientists, artists or writers that are usually state-funded and often are given the role of controlling much of the state funding for research into their areas, or other forms of funding. Some use different terms in their name – the British Royal Society for example. The membership typically comprises distinguished individuals in the relevant field, who may be elected by the other members, or appointed by the government. They are essentially not schools or colleges, though some may operate teaching arms. The Académie Française was the most influential pattern for these. Finland even has two separate \"academies\": Academy of Finland is a government-run funding agency, Suomalainen tiedeakatemia is a learned society.\n\nThe Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which presents the annual Academy Awards, is an example of a purely industry body using the name. College-type specialized academies include the Royal Academy of Music of the United Kingdom; the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy; United States Air Force Academy; and the Australian Defence Force Academy. In emulation of the military academies, police in the United States are trained in police academies.\n\nBecause of the tradition of intellectual brilliance associated with this institution, many groups have chosen to use the word \"academy\" in their name, especially specialized tertiary educational institutions. In the early 19th century \"academy\" took the connotations that \"gymnasium\" was acquiring in German-speaking lands, of school that was less advanced than a college (for which it might prepare students) but considerably more than elementary. Early American examples are the prestigious preparatory schools of Phillips Andover Academy, Phillips Exeter Academy and Deerfield Academy. In England, \"academy\" had a specialized meaning for schools, but the Edinburgh Academy was more like the American examples. Academy was also used very loosely for various commercial training schools for dancing and the like.\n\nMozart organized public subscription performances of his music in Vienna in the 1780s and 1790s, he called the concerts \"academies\". This usage in musical terms survives in the concert orchestra Academy of St Martin in the Fields and in the Brixton Academy, a concert hall in Brixton, South London.\n\nAcademies proliferated in the 20th century until even a three-week series of lectures and discussions would be termed an \"academy\". In addition, the generic term \"the academy\" is sometimes used to refer to all of academia, which is sometimes considered a global successor to the Academy of Athens.\n\nIn France, regional academic councils called academies are responsible for supervising all aspects of education in their region. The academy regions are similar to, but not identical to, the standard French administrative regions. the rector of each academy is a revocable nominee of the Ministry of Education. These academies' main responsibility is overseeing primary and secondary education, but public universities are in some respects also answerable to the academy for their region. However, French private universities are independent of the state and therefore independent of the regional academies.\n\nIn Imperial Russia and Soviet Union the term \"academy\", or Academy of Sciences was reserved to denote a state research establishment, see Russian Academy of Sciences. The latter one still exists in Russia, although other types of academies (study and honorary) appeared as well.\n\nFrom the mid-seventeenth to the 19th centuries, educational institutions in England run by nonconformist groups that did not agree with the Church of England teachings were collectively known as \"the dissenting academies\". As a place at an English public school or university generally required conformity to the Church of England, these institutions provided an alternative for those with different religious views and formed a significant part of England’s educational system.\n\nUniversity College London (UCL) was founded in 1826 as the first publicly funded English university to admit anyone regardless of religious adherence; and the Test and Corporation Acts, which had imposed a wide range of restrictions on citizens who were not in conformity to the Church of England, were abolished shortly afterwards, by the Catholic Relief Act of 1829.\n\nIn 2000, a form of \"independent state schools\", called \"academies\", were introduced in England. They have been compared to US charter schools. They are directly funded from central government rather than through local councils, and are partly privately sponsored. Often the sponsors are from business, but some are sponsored by universities and charities. These schools have greater autonomy than schools run by the local councils. They are usually a type of secondary school, but some are \"all through\" schools with an integral primary school. Some of the early ones were briefly known as \"city academies\"—the first such school opening on 10 September 2002 at the Business Academy Bexley.\n\nThe Queen's Speech, which followed the 2010 general election, included proposals for a bill to allow the Secretary of State for Education to approve schools, both Primary and Secondary, that have been graded \"outstanding\" by Ofsted, to become academies. This will be through a simplified streamlined process which will not require the sponsors to provide capital funding.\n\nIn 2012, the UK government began forcing some schools which had been graded satisfactory or lower into becoming academies, unilaterally removing existing governing bodies and head teachers in some cases. An example was Downhills Primary School in Haringey, where the head teacher refused to turn the school into an academy. OFSTED were called in to assess the school, failed it, and both the head and the governing body were removed and replaced with a Government-appointed board despite opposition from the school and parents.\n\nPrior to the twentieth century, education was not as carefully structured in the United States as it is in the twenty-first. There was not a rigid division between high school and colleges. In many cases, educational records were not kept nor diplomas issued.\n\nA reference to academia, in the United States, is to post-secondary education, especially the most elite or liberal arts part of it. However, an academy was what later became known as a high school. Some older high schools, such as Corning Free Academy, retained the term in their names (Corning Free Academy, demoted to a middle school, closed in 2014). However, the United States Military Academy is a college. A number of colleges began as (high school) academies.\n\nAcademia began to splinter from its Christian roots in 18th-century colonial America. In 1753, Benjamin Franklin established the Academy and Charitable School of the Province of Pennsylvania. In 1755, it was renamed the College and Academy and Charitable School of Philadelphia. Today, it is known as the University of Pennsylvania. For the first time, academia was established as a secular institution. For the most part, church-based dogmatic points of view were no longer thrust upon students in the examination of their subjects of study. Points of view became more varied as students were free to wander in thought without having to add religious dimensions to their conclusions.\n\nIn 1819, Thomas Jefferson founded the University of Virginia and developed the standards used today in organizing colleges and universities across the globe. The curriculum was taken from the traditional liberal arts, classical humanism and the values introduced with the Protestant Reformation. Jefferson offered his students something new: the freedom to chart their own courses of study rather than mandate a fixed curriculum for all students. Religious colleges and universities followed suit.\n\nThe Academy movement in the U.S. in the early 19th century arose from a public sense that education in the classic disciplines needed to be extended into the new territories and states that were being formed in the Old Northwest, in western New York State, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Illinois. Dozens of academies were founded in the area, supported by private donations.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment in 18th-century Europe, the academy started to change in Europe. In the beginning of the 19th century Wilhelm von Humboldt not only published his philosophical paper \"On the Limits of State Action\", but also directed the educational system in Prussia for a short time. He introduced an academic system that was much more accessible to the lower classes. Humboldt's Ideal was an education based on individuality, creativity, wholeness, and versatility. Many continental European universities are still rooted in these ideas (or at least pay lip-service to them). They are, however, in contradiction to today's massive trend of specialization in academia.\n\nAn \"academic\" is a person who works as a teacher or researcher at a university or other higher education institution.\nAn academic usually holds an advanced degree.\nThe term \"scholar\" is sometimes used with equivalent meaning to that of \"academic\" and describes in general those who attain mastery in a research discipline. It has wider application, with it also being used to describe those whose occupation was researched prior to organized higher education.\n\nAcademic administrators such as university presidents are not typically included in this use of the term \"academic\", although many administrators hold advanced degrees and pursue scholarly research and writing while also tending to their administrative duties.\n\nIn the United States, the term academic is approximately synonymous with that of the job title professor although in recent decades a growing number of institutions include librarians in the category of \"academic staff.\"\nIn the United Kingdom, various titles of academic rank are used, typically research associate, research fellow (also senior research fellow and principal research fellow), lecturer (also senior lecturer and principal lecturer), reader, and professor. The colloquial term don is sometimes substituted for teaching staff at Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nAcademia is usually conceived of as divided into \"disciplines\" or \"fields\" of study. These have their roots in the subjects of the medieval trivium and quadrivium, which provided the model for scholastic thought in the first universities in medieval Europe.\n\nThe disciplines have been much revised, and many new disciplines have become more specialized, researching smaller and smaller areas. Because of this, \"interdisciplinary\" research is often prized in today's academy, though it can also be made difficult both by practical matters of administration and funding and by differing research methods of different disciplines. In fact, many new fields of study have initially been conceived as interdisciplinary, and later become specialized disciplines in their own right – a recent example is cognitive science.\n\nMost academic institutions reflect the divide of the disciplines in their administrative structure, being divided internally into \"departments\" or \"programs\" in various fields of study. Each department is typically administered and funded separately by the academic institution, though there may be some overlap and faculty members, research and administrative staff may in some cases be shared among departments. In addition, academic institutions generally have an overall administrative structure (usually including a president and several deans) which is controlled by no single department, discipline, or field of thought. Also, the tenure system, a major component of academic employment and research in the US, serves to ensure that academia is relatively protected from political and financial pressures on thought.\n\nThe degree awarded for completed study is the primary academic qualification. Typically these are, in order of completion, associate's degree, bachelor's degree (awarded for completion of undergraduate study), master's degree, and doctorate (awarded after graduate or postgraduate study). These are only currently being standardized in Europe as part of the Bologna process, as many different degrees and standards of time to reach each are currently awarded in different countries in Europe. In most fields the majority of academic researchers and teachers have doctorates or other terminal degrees, though in some professional and creative fields it is common for scholars and teachers to have only master's degrees.\n\nClosely related to academic publishing is the practice of bringing a number of intellectuals in a field to give talks on their research at an academic conference, often allowing for a wider audience to be exposed to their ideas.\n\nWithin academia, diverse constituent groups have diverse, and sometimes conflicting, goals. In the contemporary academy several of these conflicts are widely distributed and common. A salient example of conflict is that between the goal to improve teaching quality and the goal to reduce costs. The conflicting goals of professional education programs and general education advocates currently are playing out in the negotiation over accreditation standards.\n\nPutting theory into practice can result in a gap between what is learned in academic settings and how that learning is manifested in practical settings. This is addressed in a number of professional schools such as education and social work, which require students to participate in practica for credit. Students are taught to bridge the gap between theory and practice.\n\nNot everyone agrees on the value of theory as opposed to practice. Academics are sometimes criticized as lacking practical experience and thus too insulated from the 'real world.' Academic insularity is colloquially criticized as being \"ivory tower\"; when used pejoratively, this term is criticized as anti-intellectualism.\n\nTo address this split, there is a growing body of practice research, such as the practice-based research network (PBRN) within clinical medical research. Arts and humanities departments debate how to define this emerging research phenomenon. There are a variety of contested models of practice research (practice-as-research, practice-based and practice through research), for example, screen media practice research.\n\nUniversities are often culturally distinct from the towns or cities where they reside. In some cases this leads to discomfort or outright conflict between local residents and members of the university over political, economic, or other issues. Some localities in the Northeastern United States, for instance, have tried to block students from registering to vote as local residents—instead encouraging them to vote by absentee ballot at their primary residence—in order to retain control of local politics. Other issues can include deep cultural and class divisions between local residents and university students. The film \"Breaking Away\" dramatizes such a conflict.\n\nThe goals of research for profit and for the sake of knowledge often conflict to some degree.\n\nAmong the earliest research journals were the Proceedings of Meetings of the Royal Society in the 17th century. At that time, the act of publishing academic inquiry was controversial, and widely ridiculed. It was not at all unusual for a new discovery to be announced as an anagram, reserving priority for the discoverer, but indecipherable for anyone not in on the secret: both Isaac Newton and Leibniz used this approach. However, this method did not work well. Robert K. Merton, a sociologist, found that 92 percent of cases of simultaneous discovery in the 17th century ended in dispute. The number of disputes dropped to 72 percent in the 18th century, 59 percent by the latter half of the 19th century, and 33 percent by the first half of the 20th century. The decline in contested claims for priority in research discoveries can be credited to the increasing acceptance of the publication of papers in modern academic journals.\n\nThe Royal Society was steadfast in its unpopular belief that science could only move forward through a transparent and open exchange of ideas backed by experimental evidence. Many of the experiments were ones that we would not recognize as scientific today—nor were the questions they answered. For example, when the Duke of Buckingham was admitted as a Fellow of the Royal Society on June 5, 1661, he presented the Society with a vial of powdered \"unicorn horn\". It was a well-accepted 'fact' that a circle of unicorn's horn would act as an invisible cage for any spider. Robert Hooke, the chief experimenter of the Royal Society, emptied the Duke's vial into a circle on a table and dropped a spider in the centre of the circle. The spider promptly walked out of the circle and off the table. In its day, this was cutting-edge research.\n\nResearch journals have been so successful that the number of journals and of papers has proliferated over the past few decades, and the credo of the modern academic has become \"publish or perish\". Except for generalist journals such as \"Science\" or \"Nature\", the topics covered in any single journal have tended to be narrow, and readership and citation have declined. A variety of methods for reviewing submissions exist. The most common involves initial approval by the journal, peer review by two or three researchers working in similar or closely related subjects who recommend approval or rejection as well as request error correction, clarification or additions before publishing. Controversial topics may receive additional levels of review. Journals have developed a hierarchy, partly based on reputation but also on the strictness of the review policy. More prestigious journals are more likely to receive and publish more important work. Submitters try to submit their work to the most prestigious journal likely to publish it to bolster their reputation and curriculum vitae.\n\nAndrew Odlyzko, an academician with a large number of published research papers, has argued that research journals will evolve into something akin to Internet forums over the coming decade, by extending the interactivity of current Internet preprints. This change may open them up to a wider range of ideas, some more developed than others. Whether this will be a positive evolution remains to be seen. Some claim that forums, like markets, tend to thrive or fail based on their ability to attract talent. Some believe that highly restrictive and tightly monitored forums may be the least likely to thrive.\n\nGowns have been associated with academia since the birth of the university in the 14th and 15th centuries, perhaps because most early scholars were priests or church officials. Over time, the gowns worn by degree-holders have become standardized to some extent, although traditions in individual countries and even institutions have established a diverse range of gown styles, and some have ended the custom entirely, even for graduation ceremonies.\n\nAt some universities, such as the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, undergraduates may be required to wear gowns on formal occasions and on graduation. Undergraduate gowns are usually a shortened version of a bachelor's gown. At other universities, for example, outside the UK or U.S., the custom is entirely absent. Students at the University of Trinity College at the University of Toronto wear gowns to formal dinner, debates, to student government, and to many other places.\n\nIn general, in the U.S. and UK recipients of a bachelor's degree are entitled to wear a simple full-length robe without adornment and a mortarboard cap with a tassel. In addition, holders of a bachelor's degree may be entitled to wear a ceremonial hood at some schools. In the U.S., bachelor's hoods are rarely seen. Bachelor's hoods are generally smaller versions of those worn by recipients of master's and doctoral degrees.\n\nRecipients of a master's degree in the U.S. or UK wear a similar cap and gown but closed sleeves with slits, and usually receive a ceremonial hood that hangs down the back of the gown. In the U.S. the hood is traditionally edged with a silk or velvet strip displaying the disciplinary color, and is lined with the university's colors.\n\nAccording to The American Council on Education “six-year specialist degrees (Ed.S., etc.) and other degrees that are intermediate between the master's and the doctor's degree may have hoods specially designed (1) intermediate in length between the master's and doctor's hood, (2) with a four-inch velvet border (also intermediate between the widths of the borders of master's and doctor's hoods), and (3) with color distributed in the usual fashion and according to the usual rules. Cap tassels should be uniformly black.”\n\nRecipients of a doctoral degree tend to have the most elaborate academic dress, and hence there is the greatest diversity at this level. In the U.S., doctoral gowns are similar to the gowns worn by master's graduates, with the addition of velvet stripes across the sleeves and running down the front of the gown which may be tinted with the disciplinary color for the degree received. Holders of a doctoral degree may be entitled or obliged to wear \"scarlet\" (a special gown in scarlet) on high days and special occasions. While some doctoral graduates wear the mortarboard cap traditional to the lower degree levels, most wear a cap or \"Tudor bonnet\" that resembles a tam o'shanter, from which a colored tassel is suspended.\n\nIn modern times in the U.S. and UK, gowns are normally only worn at graduation ceremonies, although some colleges still demand the wearing of academic dress on formal occasions (official banquets and other similar affairs). In the 19th and early 20th centuries, it was more common to see the dress worn in the classroom, a practice which has now all but disappeared. Two notable exceptions are Oxford and a society at Sewanee, where students are required to wear formal academic dress in the examination room.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30875305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875305", "title": "Activation-synthesis hypothesis", "text": "Activation-synthesis hypothesis\n\nThe activation-synthesis hypothesis, proposed by Harvard University psychiatrists John Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley, is a neurobiological theory of dreams first published in the American Journal of Psychiatry in December 1977. The differences in neuronal activity of the brainstem during waking and REM sleep were observed, and the hypothesis proposes that dreams result from brain activation during REM sleep. Since then, the hypothesis has undergone an evolution as technology and experimental equipment has become more precise. Currently, a three-dimensional model called AIM Model, described below, is used to determine the different states of the brain over the course of the day and night. The AIM Model introduces a new hypothesis that primary consciousness is an important building block on which secondary consciousness is constructed.\n\nWith the advancement of brain imaging technology, the sleep-waking cycle can be studied as never before. The brain can be objectively quantified and identified as being in either one of three states: awake, REM sleep, and NREM sleep due to these advanced methods of measurement. It has been shown that global deactivation of the brain from waking state to NREM sleep occurs, and a subsequent reactivation during REM sleep, to a degree greater than during waking. Consciousness and its substates, primary consciousness and secondary consciousness, play a part in identifying the state of the brain. Primary consciousness is the simple awareness of perception and emotion; that is, the awareness of the world via advanced visual and motor coordination information your brain receives. Secondary consciousness is an advanced state that includes both primary consciousness and abstract analysis, or thinking, and metacognitive components, or the awareness of being aware. Most animals show some stages of primary consciousness, but only humans have been experimentally shown to experience secondary consciousness. The cycle of waking-NREM-REM sleep is essential to mental health of mammals. It has been shown through experimentation that animals subjected to inability to enter REM sleep show an immediate attempt to quickly enter REM stages and long-term effects on motor coordination and habitual motor habits, eventually leading to the death of the animal. It has also been shown that homeothermic animals might require sleep to maintain body weight and temperature.\n\nThe waking consciousness is the awareness of the world, our bodies, and ourselves. This includes humans experiencing the awareness of being aware of ourselves, an intrinsic ability to humans. It's the ability to look in a mirror and know that you are looking at yourself, and not just another human being. Being awake allows the distinction between tasks and default brain states, and also distinguishes between background and foreground processing. Being awake allows the person to not only be aware of themselves and the world, but also to have conscious motor coordination and understand the difference between need and want that comes from secondary consciousness.\n\nThere is a difference between being just asleep and in a state of mind called dreaming. Sleeping can be described as the lack of conscious awareness of the outside world, meaning large portions of the brain that receive and interpret signals are deactivated during this time, while dreaming is a specific state of sleep in which enhanced brain activity has been shown to occur, theorizing the primary consciousness could be active during dreaming. Indeed, during dreams we are consciously aware of our surroundings, and assuredly have a certain perception and emotion throughout the course of the dream, suggesting that at least part of the primary consciousness is activated during the dream.\n\nA dream has all features of primary consciousness but is produced in the brain without external stimulation. Unlike the waking state, the brain cannot recognize its own condition; that it is in the midst of the dream and is not the same as the real world. The brain has a single-minded state of primary consciousness during dreaming, which allows the brain to reach greater perception and awareness of a single scenario out of images and dreams. This is called the dream consciousness.\n\nThe four sleep stages have been identified as follows: sleep onset stage I, late-night stage II, and deep sleep stages III and IV. Deep sleep stages III and IV all occur during the first half of the night, while lighter stages I and II occur during the later half. During standard sleep laboratory measurements, the states of sleep and waking have behavioral, polygraphic, and psychological manifestation within the pontine brainstem. These states are regulated by a reciprocal relationship between two types of neuronal cells, aminergic inhibitory cells such as serotonin and norepinephrine and cholinergic excitatory cells such as acetylcholine. Changes in the sleep stages occur when the activity curves of these neurons cross. REM sleep stage I is a state of sleep just above and most closely linked to sleep onset stage I.\n\nNREM sleep can be described as the stages of sleep that show greatly decreased brain activity. There are four different stages of NREM sleep. The brain shows dulled or limited senses of perception, though the thought process has been shown to be logical and perseverative. Episodic movements of the body occur during these stages, though they are involuntary movements.\n\nREM sleep is an evolutionarily recent behavior of humans. REM stands for rapid eye movement. It is the deepest sleep a mammal can go into. It is regulated by the pontine brainstem. Infants spend most of their time in REM sleep, and rather than enter stage 1 sleep they go directly to REM sleep. Most REM sleep occurs just above stage I of sleep, and experiences different mental abilities than during NREM sleep. The thought process is non-logical and often bizarre, sensation and perception is vivid but created internally by the brain, and the body's movements are inhibited. Most REM stages last 10–15 minutes, and the average human will go through 4–6 of these stages during sleep each night. Subsequent REM stages increase in duration, so the last REM stage before awakening is the longest and most vivid. During REM sleep the brain shows increased states of minimal inhibition, which degrades in our ability to recognize the state for which it is; a dream. It has been proposed that REM sleep is necessary for preparation of many integrative functions, of which one is consciousness. It supports the idea that sleep, and dreaming, is necessary preparation for the next day's processes. The scientific tracking of REM sleep stages can be measured by neuronal signals within the pontine brainstem. The interactions of aminergic inhibitory neurons and cholinergic excitatory neurons can be measured, and REM sleep occurs when aminergic cells are at their least active and cholinergic cells are at their most active.\n\nIt has been stated that REM sleep is a recent evolutionary behavior in homeothermic animals. In both, there is increased REM sleep in the early stages of life. In humans, REM sleep peaks during the third trimester of gestation, and quickly falls after birth as primary consciousness declines and secondary consciousness grows with the development of the brain. The developing control over stages of sleep and waking suggests that sleep and REM has developed as a way to self-activate in order to anticipate awake-state circumstances.\n\nWithin the pons, the modeling and tracking of these aminergic inhibitory neurons and cholinergic excitatory neurons occurs via the study of PGO waves.\n\nThe development of consciousness is a gradual, time-consuming and lifelong process that builds upon and uses a more primitive virtual reality generator that is more definable in our dreams. As such, the development of secondary consciousness during the lifetime requires a blank consciousness that during REM sleep creates an imaginary self that has movements and experiences emotions. This is an experimental state not associated with awareness, and this state, or protoconscious, is able to be reached during childhood. This protoconsciousness is a protoself created early in life by the brain as a building block for consciousness to develop, and provides intrinsic predictions of external inputs created by dreaming.\n\nHobson and McCarley originally proposed in the 1970s that the differences in the waking-NREM-REM sleep cycle was the result of interactions between aminergic REM-off cells and cholinergic REM-on cells. This was perceived as the activation-synthesis model, stating that brain activation during REM sleep results in synthesis of dream creation. Hobson's five cardinal characteristics include: intense emotions, illogical content, apparent sensory impressions, uncritical acceptance of dream events, and difficulty in being remembered.\n\nThanks to the development of technology since the original proposal, new experimental data has been collected and additional mechanistic details of neuronal control have been developed. It has been determined that consciousness states can be described with three values, and the AIM model is a model that uses these values for representing the similarities and differences between waking and dreaming. It is a three-dimensional state-space model that describes different states of the brain and their variance throughout the day and night. It is composed of three different values: A – activation, I – input-output gating, and M – modulation. The model is limited however, in that it cannot yet explain the regional differences in brain activity that distinguish REM sleep from waking. Other limitations include the inability to quantifiably identify and measure M in humans. During waking and activation of primary and secondary consciousnesses, high values of A, I, and M have been observed, but during REM sleep high values of A but low I and M have been observed.\n\nThe protoconsciousness is template of consciousness that occurs during sleep, and on which can be constructed other mental conscious processes. Early in childhood, it has been said that this protoconsciousness is where secondary aspects of consciousness are originally developed and tested by the primary consciousness, and the person can slowly develop increased secondary consciousness throughout their life as their protoconscious template is further expanded, developed, and creates more vivid ideas and representations of secondary consciousness.\n\nLarge parts of the brain that are activated and sending signals during waking are inactive during NREM sleep and become reactivated during REM sleep. It is based on the fact that the brain and its neural circuitry is plastic and self-regulating, especially in its own activation and inactivation. This was observed by two experiments: development of sleepiness after dopamine neuron destruction in substantia nigra in the midbrain, and discovery of the reticular activating system, which are visual cues received through our eyes and to our brain that begin the waking process, that waking consciousness depends sleep. Following these studies, it became clear that activity levels and quality of consciousness were functions of brain activation and deactivation.\n\nIt has been shown that the internal activation of the brain is associated with the inhibition of both external sensory input and motor output. This implies that the brain is actively kept offline during REM, and the brainstem guarantees the coordination of factors I and A via the input-output gate control within the brainstem. PGO waves play a part in the ability of the brain to remain asleep while constituting the building blocks for perception and fine motor control via their phasic coordination. It has therefore been proposed that PGO signals are used in the construction of visual imagery of dreams.\n\nThe neuromodulator release of aminergic neurons have a broad chemical influence on the brain; they instruct other neurons to keep or discard a record of information they've processed. The mechanics of modulation are not known at this time, and modulation has yet to be quantitatively identified. Qualitatively, aminergic modulation has been shown to be strong during waking but lower during sleep, but more studies need to be conducted. Numerous studies have emerged from the discipline of computational neuroscience that support to the AIM model. The theory of Metalearning in particular describes how these neuromodulators facilitate dynamic learning, though a series of interpretive models all consistent with the AIM model.\n\nThe three-dimensional AIM model shows that during the cycle of brain states waking-NREM-REM, the brain is dynamically changing constantly, and that this state space described by the AIM has an infinite number of subregions other than the main three. It proposes that via a protoconsciousness brain activation during sleep is necessary for the development and maintenance of waking consciousness and other higher-order brain functions such as problem solving. It suggests the possibility that the state of waking consciousness is only present in humans due to the evolution of extensive cortical structures within the brain. Dreaming is a state of the brain that is similar to yet different from the waking consciousness, and interaction and correlation between the two is necessary for optimal performance from both. One study conducted measuring brain activity via EEG used Hobson's AIM model to show that quantitatively dream consciousness is remarkably similar to waking consciousness.\n"}
{"id": "50640898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50640898", "title": "Adobe Museum of Digital Media", "text": "Adobe Museum of Digital Media\n\nThe Adobe Museum of Digital Media is a virtual museum dedicated to digital art, and also commentary on the relationship between digital media and society. It was created and sponsored as a marketing exercise by Adobe Systems.\n\nThe museum's first exhibition was a video exhibit by Tony Oursler. Other artists exhibited have included Mariko Mori.\n\n"}
{"id": "2793994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2793994", "title": "Aletheia", "text": "Aletheia\n\nAletheia (Ancient Greek: ) is truth or disclosure in philosophy. It was used in Ancient Greek philosophy and revived in the 20th century by Martin Heidegger.\n\nIt is a Greek word variously translated as \"unclosedness\", \"unconcealedness\", \"disclosure\" or \"truth\". The literal meaning of the word is \"the state of not being hidden; the state of being evident.\" It also means factuality or reality. It is the opposite of lethe, which literally means \"oblivion\", \"forgetfulness\", or \"concealment\". According to Pindar's Olympian Ode, Aletheia is the daughter of Zeus, while Aesop in his Fables said that she was crafted by Prometheus.\n\nIn the early to mid 20th-century, Martin Heidegger brought renewed attention to the concept of \"aletheia\", by relating it to the notion of disclosure, or the way in which things appear as entities in the world. While he initially referred to \"aletheia\" as \"truth\", specifically a form that is pre-Socratic in origin, Heidegger eventually corrected this interpretation, writing:\n\nTo raise the question of \"aletheia\", of disclosure as such, is not the same as raising the question of truth. For this reason, it was inadequate and misleading to call \"aletheia\", in the sense of opening, truth.\"\n\nHeidegger gave an etymological analysis of \"aletheia\" and drew out an understanding of the term as 'unconcealedness'. Thus, \"aletheia\" is distinct from conceptions of truth understood as statements which accurately describe a state of affairs (correspondence), or statements which fit properly into a system taken as a whole (coherence). Instead, Heidegger focused on the elucidation of how an ontological \"world\" is disclosed, or opened up, in which things are made intelligible for human beings in the first place, as part of a holistically structured background of meaning.\n\nHeidegger also wrote that \"\"Aletheia\", disclosure regarded as the opening of presence, is not yet truth. Is \"aletheia\" then less than truth? Or is it more because it first grants truth as \"adequatio\" and \"certitudo\", because there can be no presence and presenting outside of the realm of the opening?\"\n\nHeidegger began his discourse on the reappropriation of \"aletheia\" in his magnum opus, \"Being and Time\" (1927), and expanded on the concept in his \"Introduction to Metaphysics\". For more on his understanding of \"aletheia\", see \"Poetry, Language, and Thought\", in particular the essay entitled \"The Origin of the Work of Art\", which describes the value of the work of art as a means to open a \"clearing\" for the appearance of things in the world, or to disclose their meaning for human beings. Heidegger revised his views on \"aletheia\" as truth, after nearly forty years, in the essay \"The End of Philosophy and the Task of Thinking,\" in \"On Time and Being\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236191", "title": "Biopsychosocial model", "text": "Biopsychosocial model\n\nThe biopsychosocial model is a model of health that includes biological, psychological, and social factors, The model was proposed by George L. Engel in 1977 for understanding health and illness. It has been criticized for lacking philosophical coherence and being undisciplined.\n\nThe biopsychosocial model was proposed by George L. Engel to better reflect the development of illness through the complex interaction of biological factors (genetic, biochemical, \"etc\"), psychological factors (mood, personality, behavior, etc.), and social factors (cultural, familial, socioeconomic, medical, etc.). The model provides a blueprint for research, a framework for teaching, and a design for action in the real world of health care.\n\nThe proposal of the model was in reaction to the perceived lack of science being used in psychiatry at the time and the reductionist approach used in other medicine fields—neither of which were adequate for treating illness. In developing the model, Engel noted that it needed to be equally applicable for illnesses, rather than being for either physical or psychological problems. By considering both in the same terms, it became obvious that both the inclusion of somatic and psychosocial factors were indispensable and the exclusion of either would impact on patient care.\n\nThere have been a number of criticisms of the biopsychosocial model. Benning summarised the arguments against the model including that it lacked philosophical coherence, was insensitive to patients' subjective experience, was unfaithful to the general systems theory that Engel claimed it be rooted in, and that it engendered an undisciplined eclecticism that provides no safeguards against either the dominance or the under-representation of any one of the three domains of bio, psycho, or social. Some have argued that the approach borders on anarchy because of the suggestion that the target and focus on intervention is determined by the practitioner based on personal preference. Finally, some became reductionistic about the model itself, attempting to predict small parts of one aspect to predict the functioning in one field of medicine, for example psychiatry.\n\n"}
{"id": "22180498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22180498", "title": "Birman–Wenzl algebra", "text": "Birman–Wenzl algebra\n\nIn mathematics, the Birman-Murakami-Wenzl (BMW) algebra, introduced by and , is a two-parameter family of algebras C(\"ℓ\", \"m\") of dimension 1·3·5 ··· (2\"n\" − 1) having the Hecke algebra of the symmetric group as a quotient. It is related to the Kauffman polynomial of a link. It is a deformation of the Brauer algebra in much the same way that Hecke algebras are deformations of the group algebra of the symmetric group.\n\nFor each natural number \"n\", the BMW algebra C(\"ℓ\", \"m\") is generated by G,G...,G,E,E...,E and relations:\n\nThese relations imply the further relations: <br>\n\nThis is the original definition given by Birman & Wenzl. However a slight change by the introduction of some minus signs is sometimes made, in accordance with Kauffman's 'Dubrovnik' version of his link invariant. In that way, the fourth relation in Birman & Wenzl's original version is changed to <br>\n(1) (Kauffman skein relation) \n\n(2) (Idempotent relation) \n(3) (Braid relations) \n(4) (Tangle relations) \n(5) (Delooping relations) \n\n\nIt is proved by that the BMW algebra C(\"ℓ\", \"m\") is isomorphic to the Kauffman's tangle algebra KT, the isomorphism formula_22 is defined by <br>\n\nDefine the face operator as\nwhere formula_24 and formula_25 are determined by \nand \n\nThen the face operator satisfies the Yang-Baxter equation. \nNow formula_29 with \nIn the limits formula_31, the braids formula_32 can be recovered up to a scale factor.\n\nIn 1984, Vaughan Jones introduced a new polynomial invariant of link isotopy types which is called the Jones polynomial. The invariants are related to the traces of irreducible representations of Hecke algebras associated with the symmetric groups. In 1986, showed that the Kauffman polynomial can also be interpreted as a function formula_33 on a certain associative algebra. In 1989, constructed a two-parameter family of algebras C(\"ℓ\", \"m\") with the Kauffman polynomial K(\"ℓ\", \"m\") as trace after appropriate renormalization.\n\n"}
{"id": "39963848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39963848", "title": "Central Monitoring System", "text": "Central Monitoring System\n\nThe Central Monitoring System, abbreviated to CMS, is a centralized telephone interception provisioning system installed by the Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT), an Indian Government owned telecommunications technology development centre, and operated by Telecom Enforcement Resource and Monitoring (TERM) Cells. The CMC system is going to be set up in each major state collocated with the TERM Cells.Telecom operators in India are required by law to give access to their networks to law enforcement agencies.\nGovernment has set up the Centralized Monitoring System (CMS) to automate the process of Lawful Interception & Monitoring of telecommunications. CMS has got the approval from government. Cabinet Committee on Security has approved the project of CMS with government funding of Rs 400 Crores. Pilot trials have been completed and the system is anticipated to be progressively operationalised from the end of the financial year.\n\nThe 2007-08 annual report of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) stated that the requirements for the CMS project had been finalized by the Telecommunication Engineering Center (TEC), after deliberations with security agencies, and that the first phase of the project, covering the \"national capital\", was scheduled to be implemented by 31 March 2008. It also stated that C-DOT had finalized the \"scope, architecture and dimensioning of the network\". The 2008-09 annual report stated that proof of concept had been demonstrated and that R&D activities for the project were \"ongoing\". The Government of India budgeted $150 million for the system as part of its 12th Five Year Plan, with Cabinet ultimately approving a higher amount. The CMS was fast-tracked following the 2008 Mumbai attacks. However, it faced repeated delays and missed the original deployment deadline of the end of 2012, and the next deadline of March 2013.\n\nCMS was first announced publicly in a press release by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), dated 26 November 2009. The release lacked details on the system but stated that CMS was a \"centralized system to monitor communications on mobile phones, landlines and the internet in the country\" and claimed that the project would \"strengthen the security environment in the country\". CMS was mentioned by Minister of Communications and Information Technology Kapil Sibal on 1 January 2011, while addressing the media to announce his 100-day agenda for the Indian telecom sector. Sibal mentioned it in passing, telling the media that \"Steps will be taken to establish the Central Monitoring System which will facilitate and prevent misuse of lawful interception facility.\" The announcement was described as \"muted\" by \"Time\" magazine.\n\nOn 9 March 2011, Minister of State for Communications & Information Technology, Sachin Pilot stated that the CMS was to be set up for the \"Lawful Interception and Monitoring of communications to address the national security concerns. It will automize the present manual system of interception and monitoring, which will enhance the secrecy of intercepted numbers and will cut down the delay in provisioning.\"\n\nOn 15 October 2012, \"The New Indian Express\" reported that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had requested for authorization to access CMS once it became functional. The paper also stated that a pilot trial was underway. \"Mint\" cited an internal note from the DoT dated 10 June 2013, which reportedly said that CMS had \"undergone successful pilots\" and was \"likely to be commissioned\" by the end of 2013. The government began rolling out the CMS, state by state, in April 2013.\n\nIn July 2013, BlackBerry granted the Indian Government access to its messaging services. It is presumed that CMS will be used to monitor these services, although it may be done through C-DOT's Lawful Intercept and Monitoring (LIM) system. It will make two amendments to the Indian Telegraph Act to allow for intercepting and monitoring through the CMS and to allow \"collecting, storing and analyzing message pertaining to information of any nature by the Telegraph Authority\".\n\nIn exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 (13 of 1885), the Government of India made Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951. Directions for interception of any message or class of messages under sub-section (2) of Section 5 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 shall not be issued except by an order made by the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs in the case of Government of India and by the Secretary to the State Government in-charge of the Home Department in the case of a State Government. In unavoidable circumstances, such order may be made by an officer, not below the rank of a Joint Secretary to the Government of India, who has been duly authorized by the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary, as the case may be:\n\nProvided that in emergent cases:\n\n(i) in remote areas, where obtaining of prior directions for interception of messages or class of messages is not feasible; or\n\n(ii) for operational reasons, where obtaining of prior directions for interception of message or class of messages is not feasible;\n\nthe required interception of any message or class of messages shall be carried out with the prior approval of the Head or the second senior most officer of the authorized security \"i.e.\" Law Enforcement Agency at the Central Level and the officers authorised in this behalf, not below the rank of Inspector General of Police at the state level but the concerned competent authority shall be informed of such interceptions by the approving authority within three working days and that such interceptions shall be got confirmed by the concerned competent authority within a period of seven working days. If the confirmation from the competent authority is not received within the stipulated seven days, such interception shall cease and the same message or class of messages shall not be intercepted thereafter without the prior approval of the Union Home Secretary or the State Home Secretary, as the case may be.\n\nThe Hon’ble Supreme Court has upheld the constitutional validity of interceptions and monitoring under Section 5(2) of the Act through its order dated 18.12.1996 in Writ Petition (C) No.256/1991 by People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) Vs. Union of India. It has also observed that the right to hold a telephone conversation in the privacy of one's home or office without interference can certainly be claimed as “Right to Privacy”, and accordingly, held that telephone tapping would infringe the Right to Life and Right to Freedom of Speech & Expression enshrined in Articles 21 and 19(1)(a) respectively of the Constitution of India, unless it is permitted under the procedure established by law. The Hon’ble Court further observed that Section 5(2) of the Act clearly provides that ‘occurrence of any public emergency’ or ‘interest of public safety’ is a sine qua non for the application of these provisions. Neither of these are secretive conditions or situations. Either of the situations would be apparent to a reasonable person.\n\nInterception of communication by authorized Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) is carried out in accordance with Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007. Following is the list of authorised Law Enforcement Agencies for Lawful Interception:\n\nCentral Agencies \n\n\nDirector General of Police, of concerned state/Commissioner of Police, Delhi for Delhi Metro City Service Area only.\n\nCall data records (CDRs) can be sought by following the statutory provisions contained in Section 92 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 or Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419 A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007.\n\nEarlier the provisioning of Interception of the Telephone was being done by the Telecom operators on the basis of duly authorized order by the competent authority in accordance with 419A telephone rule. Traditionally, the Law Enforcement Agency was approaching the various telecom companies based on the numbering scheme of the target telephone number. In CMS setup there is no change in the Interception authorization order envisaged in 419A telephone rule except that now the Law Enforcement Agency will go to only TERM Cell for any interception order provisioning irrespective of telephone numbering scheme. There is no change in the existing LIS / LIM system in the telecom network. The TERM Cell who are the field unit of DOT and carries the enforcement and regulation of licensing conditions in the field will be sole authority to provision the interception orders but interception orders will be obtained by Law Enforcement Agencies in according to the 419A telephone rule.\n\nGovernment has set up the Centralized Monitoring System (CMS) to automate the process of Lawful Interception & Monitoring of telecommunications technology. Government of India on 2015-12-02 in a reply to parliament question no. 595 on scope, objectives and framework of the CMS has struck a balance between national security, online privacy and free speech informed that to take care of the privacy of citizens, lawful interception and monitoring is governed by the Section 5(2) of Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 read with Rule 419A of Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Rules, 2007 wherein oversight mechanism exists in form of review committee under chairmanship of the Cabinet Secretary at Central Government level and Chief Secretary of the State at the State Government level. The same mechanism is applicable for the interception under the CMS Project also. Additionally, there is an inbuilt mechanism of check and balance as Security Agencies/Law Enforcement Agencies cannot provision the target and the provisioning agency cannot see the content.\n\n\"Business Standard\" criticised the fact that a warrant need not be obtained. \"Firstpost\" criticised the lack of information from the government about the project and the lack of a legal recourse for a citizen whose personal details were misused or leaked. \"The Hindu\" also criticised the lack of information available about the system.\n\n\"The Indian Express\" criticised the introduction of the system in the absence of accountability and \"any reasonably effective safeguards\" to protect privacy. \"The Times of India\" criticised the introduction of CMS without public debate or Parliamentary accountability. The paper also felt that Indian privacy laws were \"lax\", and \"far worse than American law on these matters\".\n\n\"Forbes India\" pointed out that a consequence of CMS would be that innocent citizens could be wrongly accused of criminal activity. \"The New York Times\" argued that India did not need centralised interception facilities to have centralised tracking of interception requests. The paper also expressed supported for a strong privacy law, and advised Indian citizens to \"take greater care of their own privacy and safeguard the security of their communications\".\n\nHuman rights and civil-liberties groups have expressed concerns that the CMS is prone to abuse, and is an infringement of privacy and civil liberties. Critics have described it as \"abuse of privacy rights and security-agency overreach\".\n\nMeenakshi Ganguly, the South Asia director of Human Rights Watch, felt that the move toward extensive \"surveillance capabilities enabled by digital communications\" suggests that governments are now \"casting the net wide, enabling intrusions into private lives\". Ganguly also felt that increasing surveillance around the world was an attempt by governments to \"grapple with the power of social media that can enable spontaneous street protests\".\n\nPraveen Swami, strategic affairs editor of Network18, felt that \"There is also the argument that the threat of a cyber attack is deliberately overplayed ... it is far-fetched. So there is a need for balance\". Pawan Sinha, a human rights teacher at Delhi University, believes that bypassing courts was \"really very dangerous\" and could be \"easily misused\".\n\nAnja Kovacs of the Internet Democracy Project, and a fellow at the New Delhi-based Centre for Internet and Society, felt that there was \"a growing discrepancy and power imbalance between citizens and the state\" and that in the Indian scenario, there were \"no checks and balances in place\".\n\nSunil Abraham, executive director of Bangalore-based non-profit Centre for Internet and Society, advised Indians to \"stop using proprietary software, shift to free/open source software\" and \"encrypt all sensitive Internet traffic and email using software like TOR and GNU Privacy Guard\".\n\nPranesh Prakash, director of policy at the Centre for Internet and Society, warned that the lack of privacy laws and government accountability makes the programme \"very worrisome.\" Cyberlaw specialist Pavan Duggal stated that the \"system is capable of tremendous abuse\" and \"even legitimate conversations could end up being tracked\". Mishi Choudhary, executive director, Software Freedom and Law Center stated that, \"There has been no public consultation on this issue. No one knows what they have proposed or whether it has parliamentary mandate. We don't even have empirical data on phone tapping from the government. It's like a black hole.\"\n\nHuman rights activist Neingulo Krome described CMS as \"a threat to democracy\" and also felt that the agencies involved could \"soon challenge the authority of the government itself\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1346922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1346922", "title": "Container-deposit legislation", "text": "Container-deposit legislation\n\nContainer-deposit legislation (also known as a deposit-refund system, bottle bill, or deposit-return system) is any law that requires the collection of a monetary deposit on beverage containers (refillable or non-refillable) at the point of sale. When the container is returned to an authorized redemption center, or retailer in some jurisdictions, the deposit is partly or fully refunded to the redeemer (presumed to be the original purchaser). It is a deposit-refund system.\n\nGovernments may pass container deposit legislation for several reasons, including, for example:\n\nDeposits that are not redeemed are often kept by distributors or bottlers to cover the costs of the system (including handling fees paid to retailers or redemption enters to collect, sort, and handle the containers) or are escheated to the governmental entity involved to fund environmental programs. \n\nA & R Thwaites & Co in Dublin, Ireland, announced in 1799 the provision of artificial \"soda water\" and that they paid 2 shillings a dozen for returned bottles. Schweppes that also was in the business of artificially made mineral waters, had a similar recycling policy about 1800, without any legislation. Scottish bottled beverage companies also voluntarily introduced such a scheme to encourage the return of their bottles for reuse. In Sweden a standard system for deposits on bottles and recycling was established in 1884, eventually by law. The popular demand for a deposit on aluminium cans to reduce littering led to legislation in 1984.\n\nIn North America, British Columbia's legislated deposit-return system, enacted in 1970, is the oldest such program in North America.\n\nIn the days when bottles were washed and re-used, drinks manufacturers paid for the return of their (proprietary) containers, but with the advent of single-use containers great savings were possible, leaving their disposal as the consumer's responsibility.\n\nWhile a national scheme has been repeatedly delayed largely due to unveiled threats from the beverage industry of multimillion-dollar ad campaigns against politicians who support it and disagreements between the states, there has been a growing momentum of state-based operated container deposit schemes (CDS). Currently all states except Victoria and Tasmania look to have some sort of state-based container deposit scheme operating within the next 2 years. With 8 billion beverage containers landfilled or littered every year in Australia, proponents argue that it is the most effective method to reduce such litter; and improve recycling above that achieved by kerbside. It also has many co-benefits such as funds for charities and several thousand new jobs, that cannot be achieved by other approaches.\n\nSmaller beer bottles (250 or 330 mL) carry a €0.10 deposit, and larger ones (750 mL or 1 L) a €0.20 one. Some fruit-juice bottles, such as those sold by Oxfam Wereldwinkels/Magasins du Monde], carry a €0.30 deposit. Some hard plastic milk bottles such as those sold by Delhaize carry a €0.20 deposit.\n\nIn 1970, British Columbia became the first Canadian province to establish a mandatory deposit-return system for soft drinks and beer containers. Today, nearly all provinces and territories in Canada have followed suit; the territory of Nunavut is the only jurisdiction in Canada that has yet to implement some sort of deposit refund system. \n\nDeposits range from CAD$0.05 to CAD$0.40 per unit depending on the material and size of the container and whether the container contains an alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage. \n\nBelow is a brief summary of each program:\n\n\nSince 2006, a refundable deposit of 0.5 HRK (Croatian Kuna) has been levied on non-refillable containers (except dairy products) with minimum volume of 200ml. Retailers over 200m2 are obliged to take-back containers. Collection is mostly manual, although some collection occurs with reverse vending machines. Retailers must sort containers by material type (PET bottles, aluminum/steel cans, and glass bottles). The scheme is government operated and there is a collection target of 95%. In 2015, the scheme recovered up to 90% of all non-refillable containers placed on the Croatian market. \n\nIn the Czech Republic most beer is sold in returnable glass bottles that carry a CZK 3 deposit. These bottles are collected by shops and supermarkets. Reverse vending machines have mostly replaced human staff. There is also a CZK 100 deposit on plastic beer crates with a 20 bottle capacity. Most reverse vending machines accept an entire crate full of empty bottles, returning CZK 160. There is no deposit on other containers.\n\nIn Denmark the selling of aluminium beverage cans was forbidden between 1982 and 2002. However this regulation violated European Union law. Therefore, the EU forced Denmark to replace it, and the new legislation, passed in 2002, introduced a container deposit scheme. The law covers beer (alcohol content >0.5% by volume), carbonated soft drinks (alcohol content 0-0.5%), energy drinks, mineral water, iced tea, ready-to-drink beverages, and mixer products (alcohol content 0.5%-10%). Excluded from the scheme are fruit squash, juice, cocoa, wine and spirits, and milk. The deposit levels are as follows: \nThe deposit system operator is Dansk Retursystem A/S, a private non-profit organization. Most collection (95%) is done automatically using reverse vending machines, but some (5%) is done manually. In 2014, the system achieved a total return rate of 89%.\n\nIn Estonia there is a universal deposit and recycling system since 2005 for one-time and refillable containers. This includes soft drinks, water, beer, cider, juice, juice concentrates, nectars, and low-ethanol alcoholic beverages (up to 6% volume). It does not include strong alcoholic beverages such as wine or vodka, glass jars, or Tetra Paks. The deposit is €0.10 on all metal, plastic, and glass beverage containers of all sizes. The system is operated by Eesti Pandipakend OÜ, which is a producer responsibility organization representing the Estonian Association of Brewers, the Association of Producers of Soft Drinks, the Association of Importers of Soft Drinks and Beer, and the Estonian Retailers Association.\n\nIn 2015, 90% of all PET bottles, 70% of all aluminum cans and 87% of all glass bottles sold in Estonia were returned for recycling and/or reuse. The overall return rate was 82.3%. \n\nThe United Nations Development Programme had funded a feasibility study to look at the possibility of establishing a deposit-return system in Fiji, building on the experience gained from their successful projects in Kiribati and the Federated States of Micronesia.\n\nIn 2011, the Fijian Government approved the Environment Management [Waste Disposal and Recycling][Amendment] Regulations 2011, and the Environment Management [Container Deposit] Regulations 2011. The Regulations provide the legal framework for the introduction of a container deposit and refund system, allowing beverage producers and importers to adjust pricing and accommodate deposits. The Regulations will also allow the Department of Environment to register and establish the Managing Agency that will administer Fiji's container deposit system, and establish a revolving fund account to receive all deposits paid by producers for all beverages sold. No further details are available.\n\nDeposits were introduced on aluminum cans in 1996, on PET bottles in 2008, and on glass bottles in 2012. Almost all soft drinks are covered by the program, in addition to water, beer, cider, long drinks, sport drinks, juice, and liquor/spirits/wine sold by Alko. Milk is exempt. The system is administered by Suomen palautuspakkaus Oy (abbr. Palpa), which is a private consortium of beverage importers and manufacturers. In 2016, aluminum cans were recovered at a rate of 96%, PET bottles 92%, and one-way glass 88%. The deposit values for these containers are as follows: \n\n\nThe scheme is, in technical sense, voluntary and Palpa does not hold a legal monopoly for container deposits systems. However, it is the only such system in operation. Those beverage containers that do not belong to a container deposit system are levied an excise tax of €0.51/L, regardless of the container size. The tax is so high that essentially all beverage manufacturers and importers opt to join the Palpa system instead of paying the excise tax.\n\nIn Germany container deposit legislation, known as \"Einwegpfand\" (single-use deposit), was passed in 2002, and was implemented on 1 January 2003. However, its implementation was fought by lobby groups of German bottling industry and retailers. This fight also included trials at the Federal Administrative Court of Germany and the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany, but all trials were won by the German federal government. The deposit legislation covers plastic, aluminum, and glass containers for water, beer, mixed drinks containing beer, carbonated/non-carbonated soft drinks, and mixed alcoholic drinks. Excluded from the program are containers for fruit and vegetable juice, milk products, wine, spirits, liquors, and certain dietary drinks. Also excluded are containers smaller than 100mL and larger than 3L. At any given time, an estimated 2 billion beer bottles are in circulation in Germany, each of which sees an average of 36 reuses.\n\nAs of October 2016, the standard deposit for all single-use containers (cans, single-use glass and plastic bottles) 0.1L-3L in volume is €0.25. Retailers are only obliged to take back the material fractions that they sell. \n\nThe deposit for refillable bottles is not defined by law. The usual rates are locally €0.02 for some wine bottles, €0.08 for beer bottles up to 0.5 L, and €0.15 for beer bottles with flip-top closures, beer bottles over 0.5 L and other bottles (mostly water and soft-drinks, lesser fruit drinks, milk, cream, yoghurt). Some bottles have an even higher deposit. Bottle crates have a deposit of €1.50. Shops only accept bottles of sold vendors and sizes.\n\nGermany's collection system is 80% automated and 20% manual. Most supermarkets in Germany have a reverse vending machine that is designed to be used by customers and which scans \"Pfand\" returns and prints a receipt for the total value of the refund which can be exchanged for cash or put towards the cost of future purchases. \n\nSupermarkets near the Danish border have established a scheme, where Scandinavian residents are exempt from \"Pfand\", by signing an \"Export declaration\" and providing that cans are exported within 24 hours and the contents are not consumed within Germany.\n\nIn Hungary, beer, wine and standardized liquor bottles carry a deposit on them, which was liberalized in the recent past. Beer bottles have 25 forints on them, but for wine glasses and for liquor bottles, the sum is decided by the trader, which people can exploit by buying a drink in a certain retailer and bringing the bottle back to its rival who have a bigger deposit on it. PET bottles and metal beverage containers are taken back only by some super- and hypermarkets, such as Lidl, Auchan, Tesco, Interspar. They all use reverse vending machines to collect them: for bottles and in most places for the PET bottles they use a Wincor-Nixdorf or a Tomra machine, while ALU cans are collected by the Hungarian ALU-press machine. Its advantage is that it accepts flattened or pressed cans as well, and it crushes them with a pressing machine, thus improving the storage capacity of the machine. The containers' prices - 2 forints/ALU can and 1 forint/PET bottle - do not widely motivate people to revend these containers.\n\nIceland has had a deposit system on a national scale for a wide range of containers (plastic, aluminum, and glass) since 1989. All ready-to-drink beverages, wine, and liquor are included in the program. Milk, milk products, and juice extracts are excluded. The deposit is the same for all bottles and cans, ISK 16. \n\nThe recycling rate per product is approximately 90% aluminum, 87% PET, and 83% glass.\n\nIn Israel, there is a 0.30-shekel (₪) deposit on beverage containers over 100ml and under 5L, except for dairy products. The system is operated by the ELA Recycling Corporation, a private non-profit organization owned by Israel's beverage manufacturers. Businesses are required to accept bottles if they sold them, or if they are over 28 square meters and sell beverages from the same manufacturer or importer. Businesses are not required to accept more than 50 bottles per customer per day. The deposit was initially ₪0.25, but was raised shortly after the ₪0.05 coin was discontinued.\n\nIn 2015, the system achieved a total return rate of 77%.\n\nMost 500 mL beer bottles (local brands such as Goldstar and Maccabee plus certain imported ones like Carlsberg and Tuborg) have a deposit of ₪1.20, and are willingly accepted even by smaller businesses (plastic water bottles, glass wine bottles and soda cans are mostly accepted by larger supermarket chains, some of which possess reverse vending machines).\n\nThe container deposit legislation, as a monetary approach to the garbage/recycling problem, has never caught on in Japan. However, under increasingly ever stricter sorting rules announced by each town or city, garbage is meticuously sorted into kitchen garbage, newspapers/books, metal cans (washed)/plastic bottles (rinsed), garden weeds, etc. in each neighborhood for pickkup by collection cars, usually on different days notified by the local government. \n\nLithuania implemented container deposit legislation for single-use cans and bottles in February 2016. Lithuania's program is comprehensive and charges a deposit on nearly all types of beverage containers, including those made of plastic, metal, and glass 0.1L to 3L. The deposit is applicable to beer and beer cocktails; cider and other fermented beverages; mixed alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages; all types of water; juice and nectars (sold in glass, plastic, and metal packaging); and fruit wines and wine-product cocktails sold in plastic and metal packaging. Milk, wine, and spirits are exempt. The deposit is the same for all containers and is €0.10 per bottle/can, and most collection is done using reverse vending machines. \n\nLithuania's deposit return system is operated by Užstato Sistemos Administratorius (USAD). Container return rates for plastic bottles were 34% before the deposit scheme, 74.3% at end of 2016, 91.9% at end of 2017, and 93% in 2018.\n\nUnder the current deposit-return scheme, large polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles greater than 0.5L are subject to a €0.25 deposit, but only those for soft drinks and water. All other beverage types, such as medical drinks, wine, spirits, etc., are excluded. The system, which is operated by Stichting Retourverpakkingen NL, is mostly automated collection (89%) with only 11% of returns being done manually. Beer bottles carry a €0.10 deposit, and beer crates €1.50.\n\nIn 2014, the Netherlands' deposit system recovered 95% of the containers covered by the program.\n\nNew Zealand had no container-deposit legislation until 2008 when the Waste Minimisation Act 2008 passed into law. The Act has provision for product stewardship of which container-deposit legislation is the most familiar type. there is no widespread deposits available on containers with some beer bottles being a notable exception.\n\nAutomated recycling of bottles has been in use since the 1970s. Aluminum and steel beverage cans had a 5,60 kr surtax in Norway up until the end of the 20th century. In 1999, a container deposit legislation was passed, which also abolished this regulation. Today, these are the following container deposits in Norway:\n\nIn 2018 the rates were increased to 2 NOK (formerly 1 NOK) and 3 NOK (previously 2.50 NOK) due to inflation and the discontinuation of the 50-øre coin.\n\nInfinitum AS (formerly Norsk Resirk A/S) is responsible for operating the national recycling scheme for non-refillable plastic bottles and beverage cans in Norway. The non-profit corporation was founded in 1999 and is owned by companies and organizations in the beverage industry and food trading. \n\nThe Norwegian system works in such a way that the excise tax decreases as the returns increases, meaning that for example that 90 per cent returns for cans translates into a 90 per cent discount on the excise tax. This again allows drink products to be sold at lower prices.\n\nIn 2014, 95.4% of PET bottles and 96.6% of all drink cans in Norway were returned under the scheme. \n\nDeposits on drink containers have a long history in Norway, starting with deposits on beer bottles in 1902. The deposit back then was 0.06 kr (3.30 kr in 2006 currency value).\nThis deposit arrangement was later expanded to include soft drink bottles.\n\nUp until 1 January 2001, the Vinmonopolet government wine and spirits monopoly chain had deposits on products made by the company itself, this did not include imported products.\n\nAll sellers of deposit marked drinking containers are required by law to accept returns of empty containers for cash. As of 2016, drink containers can be returned and deposits retrieved at over 15,000 establishments in Norway. The collection system is 95% automated (using reverse vending machines) and only 5% manual. Most reverse vending machines in Norway are manufactured by Tomra Systems ASA.\n\nIn Sweden, there are deposits on nearly all ready-to-serve beverages, including beer, soft drinks, cider, and bottled water. Dairy products, vegetable juice, fruit juice, and berry drinks are excluded from the program. The deposit values are as follows: \nAB Svenska Returpack (Pantamera) is responsible for the deposit system for aluminium cans and PET bottles. The aluminum cans have had a deposit since 1984, and PET bottles since 1994. Svensk GlasÅtervinning AB is responsible for the deposit system of glass bottles. A glass bottle recycling system was introduced in 1884 and the bottles were first standardized in 1885.\n\nUntil 1998, the hard alcohol and wine bottles sold at Systembolaget — the government owned alcohol retail monopoly — had a deposit as well, but due to the deregulation of the Systembolaget's suppliers, the former sole supplier V&S Group dropped the deposit on their bottles due to the restricted bottle shapes giving V&S a disadvantage compared to the competitors. The bottles could be returned and deposit refunded until early 1999 at Systembolaget.\n\nThe legislation regarding container deposit systems was updated so that from January 1, 2006, containers from other plastics and metals, e.g., steel cans, can be included in the deposit systems. The law also makes it illegal in Sweden to sell consumption-ready beverages in containers that are not part of an authorized Swedish container deposit system, with the exception of beverages that mainly consist of dairy products or vegetable, fruit, or berry juice. However, private importation from (mainly Eastern European) countries without deposit occurs by vendors that thus compete with a somewhat lower customer price. The recycling of these contraband cans has not been seen as a problem, but Returpack made a campaign in 2010 offering 0.10 krona for each imported can (without deposit) to the benefit of WWF, retrieving 17 million cans. In 2011, a similar campaign was repeated, retrieving almost 18 million cans.\nNon-deposit glass containers are collected in large glass garbage bins, for clear or coloured glass, placed centrally in most urban areas.\n\nThe 1.5 L refillable PET bottle with a deposit of 4.00 kr has been discontinued, and has been replaced by the 1.5 L non-refillable PET bottle. The last day for returning bottles made by Spendrups for deposit was 30 June 2007, and the last day for bottles made by Coca-Cola Sweden was 30 June 2008.\n\nAlthough Sweden is one of the leading countries in recycling of beverage containters, Returpack uses TV commercials to promote more recycling. Commercials have been made with well-known melodies sung, like \"Guantanamera\" and \"Pata pata\"—sounding like Returpack's slogan \"panta mera\" (i.e., \"recycle more\").\n\nIn 2016, the overal recycling rate was 84.9% for both aluminum cans and PET bottles, which translates to 177 packages per person in Sweden.\n\nIn Switzerland, there is a government ruling that 75% of containers must be returned, otherwise a deposit system may be introduced.\n\nUntil the turn of the 21st century, most British bottled beer was sold (whether in off-licences or pubs) in standard quart, pint, half-pint or third-pint (nip) bottles, although some brewers preferred their own distinctive designs. The standard deposit was 7pence (p) for a pint bottle and 5p for a half-pint. However, in the absence of legislation, and given the switch from pub to supermarket sales, and from Imperial to metric measures, the industry has now entirely abandoned refillable bottles.\n\nBeer casks sold for the home or party consumption of draught beer are usually also loaned out against a deposit which may run to several tens of pounds.\n\nIn England, in January 2017, ministers were reported to be considering a 10p or 20p refundable deposit on plastic bottles and containers after Green Party co-leader Caroline Lucas had voiced her support of such a scheme at the end of 2016. As of February 2017, the idea of a plastic bottle levy was unlikely as the government rejected the deposit scheme proposal. In March 2018, the UK government announced plans to introduce a deposit return scheme in England for drinks containers.\n\nAs of June 2015, Northern Ireland had been considering a drinks deposit scheme, following the publication of a feasibility study for a deposit return scheme for drinks containers in Scotland. It has yet to implement such a scheme.\n\nIn Scotland, some Barr products in 750 mL glass bottles, had a 30p container deposit although this was discontinued in August 2015. Some Tesco stores have reverse vending machines which pay ½p per aluminium can (equivalent value in Tesco Clubcard Points). Furthermore, the landmark Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 passed by the Scottish Parliament contains within it powers for Scottish ministers to implement a national scheme. As of April 2017, a Holyrood motion supporting the idea of a small deposit on all drinks containers was signed by 66 MSPs, including member from every party. In May 2015, the Association for the Protection of Rural Scotland (APRS) published Scottish polling which revealed overwhelming support for deposit-return. The figures showed that 78.8% of those who expressed a view supported this approach for Scotland, while just 8.5% opposed it. Several companies, most notably large drinks corporations like Coca-Cola, are known to have lobbied against the introduction of a national deposit scheme. Leaked documents reveal that in Europe, Coca Cola had identified deposit programs as a threat and they were planning to fight back. But in February 2017, the drinks company unexpectedly announced its support for a deposit-return program in Scotland, and in a statement to the Independent, Coca-Cola UK stated: \"We have embarked on a major review of our sustainable packaging strategy to understand what role we can play in unlocking the full potential of a circular economy in Great Britain.\" On September 5, 2017, Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced that a deposit-system would be implemented as a means to tackle the rising tide of waste. No date has been set for implementation at this time. In the days of refillable milk bottles, such bottles were deposit-free.\n\nAs of March 2018, Welsh ministers are working on a plan to introduce a deposit return scheme.\n\nThe United States container-deposit laws are popularly called \"bottle bills\" after the Oregon Bottle Bill, which was the first U.S. state to pass container deposit legislation in 1971.\n\nEfforts to pass container deposit legislation in the 39 states that do not have them are often politically contentious. The U.S. beverage container industry—including both the bottlers of water, soda, beer, and the corporate owners of grocery stores and convenience stores—often spends large amounts of money lobbying against the introduction of both new and amended beverage container deposit legislation. Because of this, a new bottle bill has not been passed since 2005, and Delaware repealed its law in 2010 in favour of a non-refundable USD $0.04 tax per beverage container sold (Universal Recycling Law). Delaware's bottle bill was introduced in 1982 and had charged a $0.05 deposit on all beverage container (except aluminum) under 2 quarts. \n\nThere are currently 10 states that have container deposit laws: \n\nStates that formerly have can deposit regulation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23355975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23355975", "title": "Denomination effect", "text": "Denomination effect\n\nThe denomination effect is a form of cognitive bias relating to currency, suggesting people may be less likely to spend larger currency denominations than their equivalent value in smaller denominations. It was proposed by Priya Raghubir, professor at the New York University Stern School of Business, and Joydeep Srivastava, professor at University of Maryland, in their 2009 paper \"Denomination Effect\".\n\nRaghubir and Srivastava conducted three studies in their research on the denomination effect; their findings suggested people may be more likely to spend money represented by smaller denominations and that consumers may prefer to receive money in a large denomination when there is a need to control spending. The denomination effect can occur when large denominations are perceived as less exchangeable than smaller denominations.\n\nThe effect's influence on spending decisions has implications throughout various sectors in society, including consumer welfare, monetary policy and the finance industry. For example, during the Great Recession, one businessman observed employees using more coins rather than banknotes in an office vending machine, perceiving the customers used coins to feel thriftier. Raghubir and Srivastava also suggested the effect may involve incentives to alter future behavior and that a large denomination can serve as a mechanism to prevent the urge to spend.\n\nRaghubir and Srivastava conducted three distinct studies as part of their experiment. Their first experiment involved 89 undergraduate students from two United States universities. As a cover story, the students were thanked for their participation and randomly given either a small denomination (four quarters) or a large denomination ($1 bill) and told they could keep or spend the money on confectionery. Small denominations were given to 43 students (48% of study group) and 46 students (52% of study group) were given large denominations. Approximately 44% (39/89) of the participants, in both conditions, chose to purchase confectionery. About 63% of the participants with the four quarters purchased candy, yet only 26% of the participants with the $1 bill spent money, suggesting the students were more inclined to spend when given a smaller denomination.\n\nIn a second study, 75 gas-station customers were each asked to participate in a short survey on gas usage. Each participant was given $5 as either five $1 bills, five $1 coins or one $5 bill and told they could spend the money at the gas station store. Customers who were given five $1 bills were more likely to buy something compared to customers receiving a single $5 bill. Customers who received five $1 coins had the lowest likelihood of spending, however the currency is in low-circulation and some are retained as souvenirs.\n\nA third study sought to understand whether the effect was particular to American culture. In China, 150 housewives were given an envelope of money in exchange for completing a survey, containing either a single Renminbi (CNY) 100 banknote or five banknotes of equivalent value (in 2009, CNY 100 was equivalent to roughly $14.63 USD or €10.40 EUR). The cash represented a significant amount of money based on the monthly income of the participants, as 18.7% (28/150) earned less than CNY 300, 65% earned (97/150) between CNY 301 and 600 and 16.7% (25/150) earned over CNY 600. The average household size was about 3.3 people in both conditions. Some who purchased household items were less satisfied if they had received a large banknote, compared to the others who felt more satisfied spending smaller denominations.\n\nOne study, conducted by marketing professors Arul Mishra, Himanshu Mishra and Dhananjay Nayakankuppam in 2006, documented a phenomenon whereby consumers spent less of a large denomination, but not with smaller denominations. In the study, they concluded that people give higher value to a large single denomination because it is more difficult to process the transaction, leading people to overvalue it and make them less likely to spend compared to an identical amount in smaller denominations. Unlike Mishra et al., who studied purchase intentions, Raghubir and Srivastava examined actual purchase decisions.\n\nPrevious research by Raghubir and Srivastava in 2008 found a higher inclination to spend using alternative payment methods, such as a credit or gift cards. Their experiment built on earlier research studies, including one by Harvard business professor John Gourville in 1998, which showed that people are more likely to analyze a transaction positively when the same amount of money is presented as an equally distributed sum each day instead of a single lump sum each year.\n\nRaghubir and Srivastava concluded in study 1 that people are more likely to spend when an equivalent amount of money is represented by a smaller denomination relative to a single large denomination. In study 2, they concluded that consumers prefer to receive money in a large denomination compared to small denominations when there is a need to control spending. Study 3 further proves that the denomination effect depends on an individual's desire to reduce the uneasy feeling associated with spending money. The denomination effect occurs because people perceive a large denomination as less replaceable than smaller denominations, which can be used to control and regulate spending.\n\nIn 2009, Sean Gregory with \"Time\" magazine explained that consumers view large denominations as more valuable than smaller denominations and that they tend to isolate the cash in their minds. Each smaller denomination $20 bill, he noted, is a less valuable entity than the single large denomination $100 bill. It's easier to spend five $20 bills than it is to spend a single $100 bill. Gregory also added that consumers fear breaking a single large denomination because they won't be able to stop spending the change.\n\nThe researchers suggested that the denomination effect may involve imposing self-constraints or incentives to alter future behavior, noting a large denomination can serve as a precommitment mechanism to prevent the urge to spend compared to small denominations.\n\nRaghubir and Srivastava believe the influence of denomination on spending decisions has implications on consumer welfare and monetary policy. Raghubir suggested offering smaller denominations to encourage spending and proposed increasing circulation of $1 coins and introduce $2 coins in the United States.\nIn 2012, Gary Belsky and Tom Gilovich of \"Time\" magazine stated that Raghubir and Srivastava's results were consistent with what they called \"mental accounting\", suggesting small denomination banknotes tend to get assigned to a \"mental petty cash account\" to spend on trivial things. In contrast, larger denomination banknotes are perceived as \"real money\" and likely to spend on things of greater importance.\n\nA 2009 National Public Radio report noted that as the recession worsened, a Sacramento businessman noticed that people were using more coins, rather than banknotes, in his office vending machine. The businessman believed the consumers were feeling economic hardship and that using coins instead of banknotes made them feel thriftier.\n\nJohn Manning, columnist at the \"International Banker\", noted the effect surfaces in the finance field, when an asset's unit of value exposes an investor's tendency to spend less when given in larger amounts. Manning cited the example of a stock split, suggesting the number of shares is increased by a certain ratio and diminished in price by the same factor, so that the company's total equity value remains the same. Stock splits are done largely because of the denomination effect, as the belief is that a less expensive share price can increase stock demand.\n\n\nCitations\nSources\n"}
{"id": "2177194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177194", "title": "Djwal Khul", "text": "Djwal Khul\n\nDjwal Khul (variously spelled 'Djwhal Khul', 'Djwal Kul', the 'Master D.K.', 'D.K.', or simply 'DK'), is believed by some Theosophists and others to be a Tibetan disciple in the tradition of ancient esoteric spirituality known as The Ageless Wisdom tradition. The texts describe him as a member of the 'Spiritual Hierarchy', or 'Brotherhood', of Mahatmas, one of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, defined as the spiritual guides of mankind and teachers ancient cosmological, metaphysical, and esoteric principles that form the origin of all the world's great philosophies, mythologies and spiritual traditions. According to Theosophical writings, Djwal Khul is said to work on furthering the spiritual evolution of our planet through the teachings offered in the 24 books by Alice Bailey of Esoteric Teachings published by The Lucis Trust; he is said to have telepathically transmitted the teachings to Bailey and is thus regarded by her followers as the communications director of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom.\n\nDjwal Khul's name first appeared in the work of Madame Blavatsky, a co-founder of the Theosophical Society and author of \"The Secret Doctrine\", published in 1888, which was primarily written by Koot Hoomi and Morya, according to Blavatsky and others in the Mahatma letters.\n\nBailey writes in August 1934, in the first person voice of DK: [I am] \"a Tibetan disciple of a certain degree, and this tells you but little, for all are disciples from the humblest aspirant up to and beyond The Christ Himself. I live in a physical body like other men on the borders of Tibet and at times (from the exoteric standpoint) preside over a large group of Tibetan Lamas, when my other duties permit.\" In some writings, his name was omitted and he was referred to by the abbreviation \"Master D. K.\" or the appellation \"The Tibetan\".\n\nIn 1919 Alice Bailey (1880–1949), severed her links with the Theosophical Society for various reasons and later began writing books she described as being telepathically dictated to her by Djwhal Khul whom she referred to as \"The Tibetan\" (later associated with the initials \"D.K.\"). According to Bailey, her D.K. was the main author behind Blavatsky's \"The Secret Doctrine\". Bailey stated that after initial resistance, she was eventually persuaded by the quality of what she had written in 'dictation' in the first few weeks work with DK to continue to write down the communications from this source. She wrote for 30 years, from 1919 to 1949.\n\nBailey wrote that Djwal Khul's intention was the revelation of esoteric teachings that were valuable for the continued training and teaching of spiritual aspirants in the 20th and early 21st century. She believed her work was done on behalf of the \"spiritual hierarchy\" of advanced beings, that included Djwal Khul, whose sole interest was to guide humanity towards the establishing of goodwill and right human relations, the vital first steps that would help prepare the way for the \"Reappearance of the Christ\" (called by Theosophists \"The Maitreya\"). Alice Bailey's 24 books with DK were to be the second in a series of three revelations, after Blavatsky's \"The Secret Doctrine\", that were meant present the preparatory teachings that would serve to usher in the New Age referred to as the \"Age of Aquarius\", because the astrological sign of Aquarius will soon succeed this present Piscean cycle in the cycle of the astrological ages.\n\nIn a preface included in many of Bailey's books, Djwal Khul, in the dictations described by Bailey, refers to the fact that he has been reported to be an abbot of a Tibetan monastery and the spiritual preceptor of a large group of lamas. She wrote that he lived in Northern India, near the borders of Tibet. Other than that the books do not include personal details about Djwal Khul and the dictated content focuses on his esoteric teachings. Of the minimal personal details, Bailey writes that Djwhal Khul considers himself a disciple of a certain degree in the spiritual, non-physical, ashram of the Master Koot Hoomi, who is considered by Theosophists and other students of Alice Bailey's books to be another member of the same \"spiritual hierarchy\" of advanced beings.\n\nC. W. Leadbeater claimed that he saw Djwal Khul teleport into a room in which he and Madame Blavatsky were sitting.\n\nBailey's work and her books with Djwal Khul were published by the Lucis Trust, an organization she set up with her husband, Foster Bailey. Over time, Djwal Khul's name has appeared in the writings about Ascended Masters (a phrase not used or sanctioned by either The Tibetan or Mrs. Bailey) of various New Age organizations (of debatable credibility according to some) such as the \"Ascended Master Teachings\" of Elizabeth Clare Prophet, who claims that she has channeled Djwal Khul as well as the other Mahatmas, such as \"Koot Hoomi\" and \"the Master El Morya\", among many others, resulting in dozens of volumes of transcriptions. The leaders of these groups described themselves as having direct contact with him and other \"Masters of Wisdom\", and to be working as their disciples on the physical plane. Within the Arcane School founded by Bailey, DK's works are studied along with other spiritual teachings of all ages. He is treated as a teacher and neither he nor his books have become objects of devotion.\n\nAccording to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, one of Djwal Khul's previous incarnations was as Caspar, one of the Three Wise Men (the one who gave gold to Jesus).\n\nIt is believed by the followers of Benjamin Creme and the followers of the Alice Bailey teachings, that Djwal Khul coordinates the activities of the seven masters of the Seven Rays to advance the \"Plan of the Masters\" and functions as the communications director of the Ascended Masters since he is believed to have telepathically transmitted the teachings in the Alice A. Bailey material to Alice Bailey.\n\nThe teachings of Djwal Khul, as conveyed through Bailey's many books in his name, contain and deal with many controversial topics, stating that there are widespread evils ingrained in popular ideas and statements about nationalism, race relations, American isolationism, Soviet totalitarianism, fascism, Nazism, and Zionism. The books include content critical of the then current 19th century and early 20th century ideas and views about people of African descent, Aboriginal Australians, the Jewish people and Arabs, and of Judaism and orthodox Christianity and fundamentalist movements of both East and West.\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. Johnson asserts that the Djwal Khul was actually Dayal Singh Majithia, a member of the \"Singh Saba\", an Indian independence movement organization and Sikh reform movement.\n\nAlso see the article “Talking to the Dead and Other Amusements” by Paul Zweig \"New York Times\" October 5, 1980, which maintains that Madame Blavatsky's revelations were fraudulent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10296", "title": "EPR paradox", "text": "EPR paradox\n\nThe Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox (EPR paradox) is a thought experiment proposed by physicists Albert Einstein, Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen (EPR) that they interpreted as indicating that the explanation of physical reality provided by Quantum Mechanics was incomplete. In a 1935 paper titled \"Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality be Considered Complete?\", they attempted to mathematically show that the wave function does not contain complete information about physical reality, and hence the Copenhagen interpretation is unsatisfactory; resolutions of the paradox have important implications for the interpretation of quantum mechanics.\n\nThe work was done at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton University in 1934, which Einstein after he had fled Nazi Germany. \n\nThe article that first brought forth these matters, \"Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?\" was published in 1935. The paper prompted a response by Bohr, which he published in the same journal, in the same year, using the same title. There followed a debate between Bohr and Einstein about the fundamental nature of reality. Einstein had been skeptical of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle and the role of chance in quantum theory. But the crux of this debate was not about chance, but something even deeper: Is there one objective physical reality, which every observer sees from his own vantage? (Einstein's view) Or does the observer co-create physical reality by the questions he poses with experiments? (Bohr's view)\n\nEinstein struggled to the end of his life for a theory that could better comply with his idea of causality, protesting against the view that there exists no objective physical reality other than that which is revealed through measurement interpreted in terms of quantum mechanical formalism. However, since Einstein's death, experiments analogous to the one described in the EPR paper have been carried out, starting in 1976 by French scientists Lamehi-Rachti and Mittig at the Saclay Nuclear Research Centre. These experiments appear to show that the local realism idea is false, vindicating Bohr.\n\nPer EPR, the paradox demonstrated that quantum theory was incomplete, and needed to be extended with hidden variables. One modern resolution is as follows: for two \"entangled\" particles created at once (e.g., an electron-positron pair from a photon), measurable properties have well-defined meaning only for the ensemble system. Properties of constituent subsystems (e.g., the individual electron or positron), considered individually, remain undefined. Therefore, if analogous measurements are performed on the two entangled subsystems, there will always be a correlation between the outcomes, and a well-defined global outcome for the ensemble. However, the outcomes for each subsystem, considered separately, at each repetition of the experiment, will not be well defined or predictable. This correlation does not imply that measurements performed on one particle influence measurements on the other. This modern resolution eliminates the need for hidden variables, action at a distance, or other schemes introduced over time, in order to explain the phenomenon.\n\nAccording to quantum mechanics, under some conditions, a pair of quantum systems may be described by a single wave function, which encodes the probabilities of the outcomes of experiments that may be performed on the two systems, whether jointly or individually. At the time the EPR article discussed below was written, it was known from experiments that the outcome of an experiment sometimes cannot be uniquely predicted. An example of such indeterminacy can be seen when a beam of light is incident on a half-silvered mirror. One half of the beam will reflect, and the other will pass. If the intensity of the beam is reduced until only one photon is in transit at any time, whether that photon will reflect or transmit cannot be predicted quantum mechanically.\n\nThe routine explanation of this effect was, at that time, provided by Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. Physical quantities come in pairs called conjugate quantities. Examples of such conjugate pairs are (Position, momentum), (Time, energy), and (Angular position, angular momentum). When one quantity was measured, and became determined, the conjugated quantity became indeterminate. Heisenberg explained this uncertainty as due to the quantization of the disturbance from measurement.\n\nThe EPR paper, written in 1935, was intended to illustrate that this explanation is inadequate. It considered two entangled particles, referred to as A and B, and pointed out that measuring a quantity of a particle A will cause the conjugated quantity of particle B to become undetermined, even if there was no contact, no classical disturbance. The basic idea was that the quantum states of two particles in a system cannot always be decomposed from the joint state of the two, as is the case for the Bell state, formula_1\n\nHeisenberg's principle was an attempt to provide a classical explanation of a quantum effect sometimes called non-locality. According to EPR there were two possible explanations. Either there was some interaction between the particles (Even though they were separated) or the information about the outcome of all possible measurements was already present in both particles.\n\nThe EPR authors preferred the second explanation according to which that information was encoded in some 'hidden parameters'. The first explanation of an effect propagating instantly across a distance is in conflict with the theory of relativity. They then concluded that quantum mechanics was incomplete since its formalism does not permit hidden parameters.\n\nViolations of the conclusions of Bell's theorem are generally understood to have demonstrated that the hypotheses of Bell's theorem, also assumed by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, do not apply in our world. Most physicists who have examined the issue concur that experiments, such as those of Alain Aspect and his group, have confirmed that physical probabilities, as predicted by quantum theory, do exhibit the phenomena of Bell-inequality violations that are considered to invalidate EPR's preferred \"local hidden-variables\" type of explanation for the correlations to which EPR first drew attention.\n\nSince the early twentieth century, quantum theory has proved to be successful in describing accurately the physical reality of the mesoscopic and microscopic world, in multiple reproducible physics experiments.\n\nQuantum mechanics was developed with the aim of describing atoms and explaining the observed spectral lines in a measurement apparatus. Although disputed especially in the early twentieth century, it has yet to be seriously challenged. Philosophical interpretations of quantum phenomena, however, are another matter: the question of how to \"interpret\" the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics has given rise to a variety of different answers from people of different philosophical persuasions (see Interpretations of quantum mechanics).\n\nQuantum theory and quantum mechanics do not provide single measurement outcomes in a deterministic way. According to the understanding of quantum mechanics known as the Copenhagen interpretation, measurement causes an instantaneous collapse of the wave function describing the quantum system into an eigenstate of the observable that was measured. Einstein characterized this imagined collapse in the 1927 Solvay Conference. He presented a thought experiment in which electrons are introduced through a small hole in a sphere whose inner surface serves as a detection screen. The electrons will contact the spherical detection screen in a widely dispersed manner. Those electrons, however, are all individually described by wave fronts that expand in all directions from the point of entry. A wave as it is understood in everyday life would paint a large area of the detection screen, but the electrons would be found to impact the screen at single points and would eventually form a pattern in keeping with the probabilities described by their identical wave functions. Einstein asks what makes each electron's wave front \"collapse\" at its respective location. Why do the electrons appear as single bright scintillations rather than as dim washes of energy across the surface? Why does any single electron appear at one point rather than some alternative point? The behavior of the electrons gives the impression of some signal having been sent to all possible points of contact that would have nullified all but one of them, or, in other words, would have preferentially selected a single point to the exclusion of all others.\n\nEinstein was the most prominent opponent of the Copenhagen interpretation. In his view, quantum mechanics was incomplete. Commenting on this, other writers (such as John von Neumann and David Bohm) hypothesized that consequently there would have to be 'hidden' variables responsible for random measurement results, something which was not expressly claimed in the original paper.\n\nThe 1935 EPR paper condensed the philosophical discussion into a physical argument. The authors claim that given a specific experiment, in which the outcome of a measurement is known before the measurement takes place, there must exist something in the real world, an \"element of reality\", that determines the measurement outcome. They postulate that these elements of reality are local, in the sense that each belongs to a certain point in spacetime. Each element may only be influenced by events which are located in the backward light cone of its point in spacetime (i.e., the past). These claims are founded on assumptions about nature that constitute what is now known as local realism.\n\nThough the EPR paper has often been taken as an exact expression of Einstein's views, it was primarily authored by Podolsky, based on discussions at the Institute for Advanced Study with Einstein and Rosen. Einstein later expressed to Erwin Schrödinger that, \"it did not come out as well as I had originally wanted; rather, the essential thing was, so to speak, smothered by the formalism.\" In 1936, Einstein presented an individual account of his local realist ideas.\n\nThe original EPR paradox challenges the prediction of quantum mechanics that it is impossible to know both the position and the momentum of a quantum particle. This challenge can be extended to other pairs of physical properties.\n\nThe original paper purports to describe what must happen to \"two systems I and II, which we permit to interact ...\", and, after some time, \"we suppose that there is no longer any interaction between the two parts.\" As explained by Manjit Kumar (2009), the EPR description involves \"two particles, A and B, [which] interact briefly and then move off in opposite directions.\" According to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, it is impossible to measure both the momentum and the position of particle B exactly. However, it is possible to measure the exact position of particle A. By calculation, therefore, with the exact position of particle A known, the exact position of particle B can be known. Alternatively, the exact momentum of particle A can be measured, so the exact momentum of particle B can be worked out. Kumar writes: \"EPR argued that they had proved that ... [particle] B can have simultaneously exact values of position and momentum. ... Particle B has a position that is real and a momentum that is real.\" EPR appeared to have contrived a means to establish the exact values of \"either\" the momentum \"or\" the position of B due to measurements made on particle A, without the slightest possibility of particle B being physically disturbed.\n\nEPR tried to set up a paradox to question the range of true application of Quantum Mechanics: Quantum theory predicts that both values cannot be known for a particle, and yet the EPR thought experiment purports to show that they must all have determinate values. The EPR paper says: \"We are thus forced to conclude that the quantum-mechanical description of physical reality given by wave functions is not complete.\"\n\nThe EPR paper ends by saying: While we have thus shown that the wave function does not provide a complete description of the physical reality, we left open the question of whether or not such a description exists. We believe, however, that such a theory is possible.\n\nWe have a source that emits electron–positron pairs, with the electron sent to destination \"A\", where there is an observer named Alice, and the positron sent to destination \"B\", where there is an observer named Bob. According to quantum mechanics, we can arrange our source so that each emitted pair occupies a quantum state called a spin singlet. The particles are thus said to be entangled. This can be viewed as a quantum superposition of two states, which we call state I and state II. In state I, the electron has spin pointing upward along the \"z\"-axis (\"+z\") and the positron has spin pointing downward along the \"z\"-axis (−\"z\"). In state II, the electron has spin −\"z\" and the positron has spin +\"z\". Because it is in a superposition of states it is impossible without measuring to know the definite state of spin of either particle in the spin singlet.\n\nAlice now measures the spin along the \"z\"-axis. She can obtain one of two possible outcomes: +\"z\" or −\"z\". Suppose she gets +\"z\". According to the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, the quantum state of the system collapses into state I. The quantum state determines the probable outcomes of any measurement performed on the system. In this case, if Bob subsequently measures spin along the \"z\"-axis, there is 100% probability that he will obtain −\"z\". Similarly, if Alice gets −\"z\", Bob will get +\"z\".\n\nThere is, of course, nothing special about choosing the \"z\"-axis: according to quantum mechanics the spin singlet state may equally well be expressed as a superposition of spin states pointing in the \"x\" direction. Suppose that Alice and Bob had decided to measure spin along the \"x\"-axis. We'll call these states Ia and IIa. In state Ia, Alice's electron has spin +\"x\" and Bob's positron has spin −\"x\". In state IIa, Alice's electron has spin −\"x\" and Bob's positron has spin +\"x\". Therefore, if Alice measures +\"x\", the system 'collapses' into state Ia, and Bob will get −\"x\". If Alice measures −\"x\", the system collapses into state IIa, and Bob will get +\"x\".\n\nWhatever axis their spins are measured along, they are always found to be opposite. This can only be explained if the particles are linked in some way. Either they were created with a definite (opposite) spin about every axis—a \"hidden variable\" argument—or they are linked so that one electron \"feels\" which axis the other is having its spin measured along, and becomes its opposite about that one axis—an \"entanglement\" argument. Moreover, if the two particles have their spins measured about \"different\" axes, once the electron's spin has been measured about the \"x\"-axis (and the positron's spin about the \"x\"-axis deduced), the positron's spin about the \"z\"-axis will no longer be certain, as if (a) it knows that the measurement has taken place, or (b) it has a definite spin already, about a \"second\" axis—a hidden variable. However, it turns out that the predictions of Quantum Mechanics, which have been confirmed by experiment, cannot be explained by any local hidden variable theory. This is demonstrated in Bell's theorem.\n\nIn quantum mechanics, the \"x\"-spin and \"z\"-spin are \"incompatible observables\", meaning the Heisenberg uncertainty principle applies to alternating measurements of them: a quantum state cannot possess a definite value for both of these variables. Suppose Alice measures the \"z\"-spin and obtains \"+z\", so that the quantum state collapses into state I. Now, instead of measuring the \"z\"-spin as well, Bob measures the \"x\"-spin. According to quantum mechanics, when the system is in state I, Bob's \"x\"-spin measurement will have a 50% probability of producing +\"x\" and a 50% probability of -\"x\". It is impossible to predict which outcome will appear until Bob actually \"performs\" the measurement.\n\nThe paradox\n\nOne might imagine that, when Bob measures the \"x\"-spin of his positron, he would get an answer with absolute certainty, since prior to this he hasn't disturbed his particle at all. But it turns out that Bob's positron has a 50% probability of producing +\"x\" and a 50% probability of −\"x\", meaning the outcome is not certain. It's as if Bob's positron \"knows\" that Alice has measured the \"z\"-spin of her electron, and hence his positron's own \"z\"-spin must also be set, but its \"x\"-spin remains uncertain.\n\nPut another way, how does Bob's positron know which way to point if Alice decides (based on information unavailable to Bob) to measure x (i.e., to be the opposite of Alice's electron's spin about the \"x\"-axis) and \"also\" how to point if Alice measures z, since it is only supposed to know one thing at a time? The Copenhagen interpretation rules that say the wave function \"collapses\" at the time of measurement, so there must be action at a distance (entanglement) or the positron must know more than it's supposed to know (hidden variables). \n\nIt is one thing to say that physical measurement of the first particle's momentum affects uncertainty in its \"own\" position, but to say that measuring the first particle's momentum affects the uncertainty in the position of the \"other\" is another thing altogether. Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen asked how can the second particle \"know\" to have precisely defined momentum but uncertain position? Since this implies that one particle is communicating with the other instantaneously across space, i.e., faster than light, this is the \"paradox\".\n\nIncidentally, Bell used spin as his example, but many types of physical quantities—referred to as \"observables\" in quantum mechanics—can be used. The EPR paper used momentum for the observable. Experimental realisations of the EPR scenario often use photon polarization, because polarized photons are easy to prepare and measure.\n\nEPR describe the principle of locality as asserting that physical processes occurring at one place should have no immediate effect on the elements of reality at another location. At first sight, this appears to be a reasonable assumption to make, as it seems to be a consequence of special relativity, which states that energy can never be transmitted faster than the speed of light without violating causality.\n\nHowever, it turns out that the usual rules for combining quantum mechanical and classical descriptions violate EPR's principle of locality without violating special relativity or causality. Causality is preserved because there is no way for Alice to transmit messages (i.e., information) to Bob by manipulating her measurement axis. Whichever axis she uses, she has a 50% probability of obtaining \"+\" and 50% probability of obtaining \"−\", completely at random; according to quantum mechanics, it is fundamentally impossible for her to influence what result she gets. Furthermore, Bob is only able to perform his measurement \"once\": there is a fundamental property of quantum mechanics, the no cloning theorem, which makes it impossible for him to make an arbitrary number of copies of the electron he receives, perform a spin measurement on each, and look at the statistical distribution of the results. Therefore, in the one measurement he is allowed to make, there is a 50% probability of getting \"+\" and 50% of getting \"−\", regardless of whether or not his axis is aligned with Alice's. \n\nNote that in this argument, we never assumed that energy could be transmitted faster than the speed of light. This shows that the results of the EPR experiment do not contradict the predictions of special relativity.\n\nHowever, the principle of locality appeals powerfully to physical intuition, and Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen were unwilling to abandon it. Einstein derided the quantum mechanical predictions as \"spooky action at a distance\". The (incorrect) conclusion they drew was that quantum mechanics is not a complete theory.\n\nThe word locality has several different meanings in physics. For example, in quantum field theory \"locality\" means that quantum fields at different points of space do not interact with one another. However, quantum field theories that are \"local\" in this sense \"appear\" to violate the principle of locality as defined by EPR, but they nevertheless do not violate locality in a more general sense. Wavefunction collapse can be viewed as an epiphenomenon of quantum decoherence, which in turn is nothing more than an effect of the underlying local time evolution of the wavefunction of a system and \"all\" of its environment. Since the \"underlying\" behaviour doesn't violate causality or special relativity, it follows that neither does the additional effect of wavefunction collapse, whether real \"or\" apparent. Therefore, as mentioned above, neither the EPR experiment nor any quantum experiment demonstrates that superluminous signaling is possible.\n\nThere are several ways to resolve the EPR paradox. The one suggested by EPR is that quantum mechanics, despite its success in a wide variety of experimental scenarios, is actually an incomplete theory. In other words, there is some yet undiscovered theory of nature to which quantum mechanics acts as a kind of statistical approximation (albeit an exceedingly successful one). Unlike quantum mechanics, the more complete theory contains variables corresponding to all the \"elements of reality\". There must be some unknown mechanism acting on these variables to give rise to the observed effects of \"non-commuting quantum observables\", i.e., the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Such a theory is called a hidden variable theory.\n\nTo illustrate this idea, we can formulate a very simple hidden variable theory for the above thought experiment. One supposes that the quantum spin-singlet states emitted by the source are actually approximate descriptions for \"true\" physical states possessing definite values for the \"z\"-spin and \"x\"-spin. In these \"true\" states, the positron going to Bob always has spin values opposite to the electron going to Alice, but the values are otherwise completely random. For example, the first pair emitted by the source might be \"(+\"z\", −\"x\") to Alice and (−\"z\", +\"x\") to Bob\", the next pair \"(−\"z\", −\"x\") to Alice and (+\"z\", +\"x\") to Bob\", and so forth. Therefore, if Bob's measurement axis is aligned with Alice's, he will necessarily get the opposite of whatever Alice gets; otherwise, he will get \"+\" and \"−\" with equal probability.\n\nAssuming we restrict our measurements to the \"z\"- and \"x\"-axes, such a hidden variable theory is experimentally indistinguishable from quantum mechanics. In reality, there may be an infinite number of axes along which Alice and Bob can perform their measurements, so there would have to be an infinite number of independent hidden variables. However, this is not a serious problem; we have formulated a very simplistic hidden variable theory, and a more sophisticated theory might be able to patch it up. It turns out that there is a much more serious challenge to the idea of hidden variables.\n\nIn 1964, John Bell showed that the predictions of quantum mechanics in the EPR thought experiment are significantly different from the predictions of a particular class of hidden variable theories (the \"local\" hidden variable theories). Roughly speaking, quantum mechanics has a much stronger statistical correlation with measurement results performed on different axes than do these hidden variable theories. These differences, expressed using inequality relations known as \"Bell's inequalities\", are in principle experimentally detectable. After the publication of Bell's paper, a variety of experiments to test Bell's inequalities were devised. These generally relied on measurement of photon polarization. All experiments conducted to date have found behavior in line with the predictions of standard quantum mechanics theory.\n\nLater work by Henry Stapp showed that a key property of local hidden variable theories which lead to Bell's inequalities was counterfactual definiteness. Building on Stapp's observations, P.H. Eberhard showed that any local counterfactual model results in Bell's inequality even without the assumption of there being hidden variables unknown to physics upon which the relevant observables depend. Arthur Fine subsequently showed that any theory satisfying the inequalities can be modeled by a local hidden variable theory. (Although Eberhard referred to his result as \"Bell's theorem without hidden variables\", Fine used a more general definition of \"hidden variables\" that includes the possibility of the observables being elementary.) Fine went on to show that any stochastic factorizable model leads to Bell's inequality. Itamar Pitowsky showed that Bell's inequality was a special case of an inequality discovered by George Boole which provides a consistency check on whether data can be represented by variables on a single classical probability space. He interpreted this to be an indication that the locality assumption prevented the data from being represented as events on such a space.\n\nAs Eberhard's proof made use of both locality and counterfactual definiteness it was assumed that an interpretation could reject either one of these to escape Bell's inequality. Violation of locality is difficult to reconcile with special relativity, and is thought to be incompatible with the principle of causality, nevertheless there was renewed interest in the Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics which keeps counterfactual definiteness while introducing a conjectured non-local mechanism in the form of the 'quantum potential' that is defined as one of the terms of the Schrödinger equation. Mainstream physics preferred to keep locality and reject counterfactual definiteness. Fine's work showed that, taking locality as a given, there exist scenarios in which two statistical variables are correlated in a manner inconsistent with counterfactual definiteness, and that such scenarios are no more mysterious than any other, despite the fact that the inconsistency with counterfactual definiteness may seem counterintuitive.\n\nFurther insights resulted from the work of Lawrence J. Landau. Landau showed that if it is assumed that there is a single classical probability space underlying all the observables under consideration in the EPR experiment, Bell's inequality will result. Thus the fundamental issue is that Quantum mechanical probabilities cannot be modeled using classical (Kolmogorovian) probability regardless of whether Quantum Mechanics is considered a complete description of reality or not. Regarding Landau's proof Ray Streater notes that it shows that Bohmian mechanics is inconsistent with Quantum mechanics and succumbs to Bell's inequality despite claims to the contrary by its proponents. Streater notes that Landau's proof only requires the assumption of a single classical probability space (a condition still satisfied by Bohm's theory) and the fact that Bohmian mechanics additionally postulates the existence of a non-local mechanism, cannot prevent Bell's inequality from applying to it.\n\nSimilar observations have been made by Karl Hess, Walter, Philipp, Hans de Raedt and Kristel Michielsen, who note that in Bell's proof, Bell's assumption of a space of hidden variables behaving as a classical probability space is sufficient to produce a contradiction with the predications of Quantum mechanics via a consistency theorem of N. N. Vorob'ev, a statistician who had built on the same work of Boole used by Pitowsky. The additional assumption of locality used by Bell is redundant and indeed Fine's work had included a derivation of Bell's inequality that did not require the assumption of locality .\n\nHowever, Bell's theorem does not apply to all possible philosophically realist theories. It is a common misconception that quantum mechanics is inconsistent with all notions of philosophical realism. Realist interpretations of quantum mechanics are possible, although as discussed above, such interpretations must reject counterfactual definiteness. Examples of such realist interpretations are the consistent histories interpretation and the transactional interpretation (first proposed by John G. Cramer in 1986). Griffiths notes that it is not \"local realism\" that is ruled out by quantum mechanics but \"classical realism\". Some workers in the field have also attempted to formulate hidden variable theories that exploit loopholes in actual experiments, such as the assumptions made in interpreting experimental data, although no theory has been proposed that can reproduce all the results of quantum mechanics.\n\nAlternatives are still possible. A recent review article based on the Wheeler–Feynman time-symmetric theory rewrites the entire theory in terms of retarded Liénard–Wiechert potentials only, which becomes manifestly causal, and, establishes a conservation law for total generalized momenta held instantaneously for any closed system. The outcome results in correlation between particles from a \"handshake principle\" based on a variational principle applied to a system as a whole, an idea with a slightly non-local feature but the theory is nonetheless in agreement with the essential results of quantum electrodynamics and relativistic quantum chemistry.\n\nThere are also individual EPR-like experiments that have no local hidden variables explanation. Examples have been suggested by David Bohm and by Lucien Hardy.\n\nThe Bohm interpretation of quantum mechanics hypothesizes that the state of the universe evolves smoothly through time with no collapsing of quantum wavefunctions. One problem for the Copenhagen interpretation is to precisely define wavefunction collapse. Einstein maintained that quantum mechanics is physically incomplete and logically unsatisfactory. In \"The Meaning of Relativity\", Einstein wrote, \"One can give good reasons why reality cannot at all be represented by a continuous field. From the quantum phenomena it appears to follow with certainty that a finite system of finite energy can be completely described by a finite set of numbers (quantum numbers). This does not seem to be in accordance with a continuum theory and must lead to an attempt to find a purely algebraic theory for the representation of reality. But nobody knows how to find the basis for such a theory.\"\nIf time, space, and energy are secondary features derived from a substrate below the Planck scale, then Einstein's hypothetical algebraic system might resolve the EPR paradox (although Bell's theorem would still be valid). If physical reality is totally finite, then the Copenhagen interpretation might be an approximation to an information processing system below the Planck scale.\n\nAccording to the present view of the situation, quantum mechanics flatly contradicts Einstein's philosophical postulate that any acceptable physical theory must fulfill \"local realism\".\n\nIn the EPR paper (1935), the authors realised that quantum mechanics was inconsistent with their assumptions, but Einstein nevertheless thought that quantum mechanics might simply be augmented by hidden variables (i.e., variables which were, at that point, still obscure to him), without any other change, to achieve an acceptable theory. He pursued these ideas for over twenty years until the end of his life, in 1955.\n\nIn contrast, John Bell, in his 1964 paper, showed that quantum mechanics and the class of hidden variable theories Einstein favored would lead to different experimental results: different by a factor of for certain correlations. So the issue of \"acceptability\", up to that time mainly concerning theory, finally became experimentally decidable.\n\nThere are many Bell test experiments, e.g., those of Alain Aspect and others. They support the predictions of quantum mechanics rather than the class of hidden variable theories supported by Einstein.\n\nMost physicists today believe that quantum mechanics is correct, and that the EPR paradox is a \"paradox\" only because classical intuitions do not correspond to physical reality. How EPR is interpreted regarding locality depends on the interpretation of quantum mechanics one uses. In the Copenhagen interpretation, it is usually understood that instantaneous wave function collapse does occur. However, the view that there is no \"causal\" instantaneous effect has also been proposed within the Copenhagen interpretation: in this alternative view, measurement affects our ability to define (and measure) quantities in the physical system, not the system itself. In the many-worlds interpretation, locality is strictly preserved, since the effects of operations such as measurement affect only the state of the particle that is measured. However, the results of the measurement are not unique—every possible result is obtained.\n\nThe EPR paradox has deepened our understanding of quantum mechanics by exposing the fundamentally non-classical characteristics of the measurement process. Before the publication of the EPR paper, a measurement was often visualized as a physical disturbance that had to be inflicted \"directly\" upon the measured subsystem. For instance, when measuring the position of an electron, one imagines shining a light on it, thus disturbing the electron and producing the quantum mechanical uncertainties in its position. Such pat and convenient but unhelpful explanations of quantum mechanics remain commonplace today, but they fail to explain (among other things) the EPR paradox, which shows that a \"measurement\" can be performed on a particle without disturbing it directly, by performing a measurement on a distant entangled particle. In fact, Yakir Aharonov and his collaborators have developed a whole theory of so-called Weak measurement.\n\nTechnologies relying on quantum entanglement are now being developed. In quantum cryptography, entangled particles are used to transmit signals that cannot be eavesdropped upon without leaving a trace. In quantum computation, entangled quantum states are used to perform computations in parallel, which may allow certain calculations to be performed much more quickly than they ever could be with classical computers.\n\nThe above discussion can be expressed mathematically using the quantum mechanical formulation of spin. The spin degree of freedom for an electron is associated with a two-dimensional complex vector space \"V\", with each quantum state corresponding to a vector in that space. The operators corresponding to the spin along the \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" direction, denoted \"S\", \"S\", and \"S\" respectively, can be represented using the Pauli matrices:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the reduced Planck constant (or the Planck constant divided by 2π).\n\nThe eigenstates of \"S\" are represented as\n\nand the eigenstates of \"S\" are represented as\n\nThe vector space of the electron-positron pair is formula_6, the tensor product of the electron's and positron's vector spaces. The spin singlet state is\n\nwhere the two terms on the right hand side are what we have referred to as state I and state II above.\n\nFrom the above equations, it can be shown that the spin singlet can also be written as\n\nwhere the terms on the right hand side are what we have referred to as state Ia and state IIa.\n\nTo illustrate how this leads to the violation of local realism, we need to show that after Alice's measurement of \"S\" (or \"S\"), Bob's value of \"S\" (or \"S\") is uniquely determined, and therefore corresponds to an \"element of physical reality\". This follows from the principles of measurement in quantum mechanics. When \"S\" is measured, the system state ψ collapses into an eigenvector of \"S\". If the measurement result is \"+z\", this means that immediately after measurement the system state undergoes an orthogonal projection of ψ onto the\nspace of states of the form\n\nFor the spin singlet, the new state is\n\nSimilarly, if Alice's measurement result is −\"z\", the system undergoes an orthogonal projection onto\n\nwhich means that the new state is\n\nThis implies that the measurement for \"S\" for Bob's positron is now determined. It will be −\"z\" in the first case or +\"z\" in the second case.\n\nIt remains only to show that \"S\" and \"S\" cannot simultaneously possess definite values in quantum mechanics. One may show in a straightforward manner that no possible vector can be an eigenvector of both matrices. More generally, one may use the fact that the operators do not commute,\n\nalong with the Heisenberg uncertainty relation\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1197184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197184", "title": "Formal proof", "text": "Formal proof\n\nA formal proof or derivation is a finite sequence of sentences (called well-formed formulas in the case of a formal language), each of which is an axiom, an assumption, or follows from the preceding sentences in the sequence by a rule of inference. If the set of assumptions is empty, then the last sentence in a formal proof is called a theorem of the formal system. The notion of theorem is not in general effective, therefore there may be no method by which we can always find a proof of a given sentence or determine that none exists. The concept of natural deduction is a generalization of the concept of proof.\n\nThe theorem is a syntactic consequence of all the well-formed formulas preceding it in the proof. For a well-formed formula to qualify as part of a proof, it must be the result of applying a rule of the deductive apparatus of some formal system to the previous well-formed formulae in the proof sequence. \n\nFormal proofs often are constructed with the help of computers in interactive theorem proving. Significantly, these proofs can be checked automatically, also by computer. Checking formal proofs is usually simple, while the problem of \"finding\" proofs (automated theorem proving) is usually computationally intractable and/or only semi-decidable, depending upon the formal system in use.\n\nA \"formal language\" is a set of finite sequences of symbols. Such a language can be defined without reference to any meanings of any of its expressions; it can exist before any interpretation is assigned to it – that is, before it has any meaning. Formal proofs are expressed in some formal languages.\n\nA \"formal grammar\" (also called \"formation rules\") is a precise description of the well-formed formulas of a formal language. It is synonymous with the set of strings over the alphabet of the formal language which constitute well formed formulas. However, it does not describe their semantics (i.e. what they mean).\n\nA \"formal system\" (also called a \"logical calculus\", or a \"logical system\") consists of a formal language together with a deductive apparatus (also called a \"deductive system\"). The deductive apparatus may consist of a set of transformation rules (also called \"inference rules\") or a set of axioms, or have both. A formal system is used to derive one expression from one or more other expressions.\n\nAn \"interpretation\" of a formal system is the assignment of meanings to the symbols, and values to the sentences of a formal system. The study of interpretations is called formal semantics. \"Giving an interpretation\" is synonymous with \"constructing a model.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "972078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=972078", "title": "Garrote", "text": "Garrote\n\nA garrote or garrote vil (a Spanish word; alternative spellings include garotte and similar variants) is a weapon, most often a handheld ligature of chain, rope, scarf, wire or fishing line used to strangle a person.\n\nA garrote can be made out of many different materials, including ropes, cable ties, fishing lines, nylon, guitar strings, telephone cord or piano wire.\n\nA stick may be used to tighten the garrote; the Spanish word actually refers to the stick itself, so it is a \"pars pro toto\" where the eponymous component may actually be absent. In Spanish, the term may also refer to a rope and stick used to constrict a limb as a torture device.\n\nSince World War II, the garrote has been regularly employed as a weapon by soldiers as a silent means of killing sentries and other enemy personnel. Instruction in the use of purpose-built and improvised garrottes is included in the training of many elite military units and special forces. A typical military garrote consists of two wooden handles attached to a length of flexible wire; the wire is looped over a sentry's head and pulled taut in one motion. Soldiers of the French Foreign Legion have used a particular type of double-loop garrote (referred to as \"la loupe\"), where a double coil of rope or cord is dropped around a victim's neck and then pulled taut. Even if the victim pulls on one of the coils, he only succeeds in tightening the other.\n\nThe garrote was widely employed in 17th- and 18th-century India as an assassination device, particularly by the Thuggee cult. Practitioners used a yellow silk or cloth scarf called a rumāl. The Indian version of the garrote frequently incorporates a knot at the center intended to aid in crushing the larynx while someone applies pressure to the victim's back, usually with a foot or knee.\n\nThe garrote () is known to have been used in the first century BC in Rome. It is referred to in accounts of the Second Catilinian Conspiracy, where conspirators including Publius Cornelius Lentulus Sura were strangled with a \"laqueus\" in the Tullianum, and the implement is shown in some early reliefs, e.g., \"Répertoire de Reliefs grecs et romains\", tome I, p. 341 (1919). It was also used in the Middle Ages in Spain and Portugal. It was employed during the \"conquista\" of the Americas, notably in the execution of the Inca emperor Atahualpa.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, execution by strangulation was reserved for very high officials and members of the ruling family. Unlike the Spanish version, a bowstring was used instead of a tightening collar.\n\nDuring the Peninsular War of 1808–1814, French forces regularly used the garrote to execute Spanish \"guerrilleros\", priests, and other opponents of Napoleonic rule. Around 1810 the earliest known metallic garrote appeared in Spain, and on 28 April 1828, the garrote was declared the sole method of executing civilians in that country. In May 1897, the last public garroting in Spain was performed in Barcelona. After that, all executions were performed inside prisons. \n\nThe last civilian executions in Spain, both by garroting, were those of Pilar Prades in May 1959 and José María Jarabo in July 1959. Recent legislation had caused many crimes (such as robbery-murder) to fall under the jurisdiction of military law; thus, prosecutors rarely requested civilian executions. Military executions were still performed in Spain until the 1970s. The garrotings of Heinz Chez (real name Georg Michael Welzel) and Salvador Puig Antich in March 1974, both convicted in the Francoist State of killing police officers, were the last state-sanctioned garrotings in Spain and in the world.\n\nWith the 1973 Penal Code, prosecutors once again started requesting execution in civilian cases. If the death penalty had not been abolished in 1978 after caudillo Francisco Franco's death, it is most likely that civilian executions would have resumed. The last man to be sentenced to death by garroting was José Luis Cerveto \"el asesino de Pedralbes\" in October 1977, for a double robbery–murder in May 1974. Cerveto requested execution, but his sentence was commuted. Another prisoner whose civilian death sentence was commuted was businessman Juan Ballot, for the contract killing of his wife in Navarre in November 1973.\n\nIn Spain, the death penalty was abolished after a new constitution was adopted in 1978. The writer Camilo José Cela obtained a garrote (which had probably been used for the execution of Puig Antich) from the \"Consejo General del Poder Judicial\" to display at his foundation. The device was kept in storage in Barcelona. It was displayed in the room that the Cela Foundation devoted to his novel \"La familia de Pascual Duarte\" until Puig Antich's family asked for its removal.\n\nIn 1990, Andorra became the last country to officially abolish the death penalty by garrotting, though this method had not been employed there since the late 12th century.\n"}
{"id": "12336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12336", "title": "Gladiator", "text": "Gladiator\n\nA gladiator (, \"swordsman\", from , \"sword\") was an armed combatant who entertained audiences in the Roman Republic and Roman Empire in violent confrontations with other gladiators, wild animals, and condemned criminals. Some gladiators were volunteers who risked their lives and their legal and social standing by appearing in the arena. Most were despised as slaves, schooled under harsh conditions, socially marginalized, and segregated even in death.\n\nIrrespective of their origin, gladiators offered spectators an example of Rome's martial ethics and, in fighting or dying well, they could inspire admiration and popular acclaim. They were celebrated in high and low art, and their value as entertainers was commemorated in precious and commonplace objects throughout the Roman world.\n\nThe origin of gladiatorial combat is open to debate. There is evidence of it in funeral rites during the Punic Wars of the 3rd century BC, and thereafter it rapidly became an essential feature of politics and social life in the Roman world. Its popularity led to its use in ever more lavish and costly games.\n\nThe gladiator games lasted for nearly a thousand years, reaching their peak between the 1st century BC and the 2nd century AD. The games finally declined during the early 5th century after the adoption of Christianity as state church of the Roman Empire in 380, although beast hunts (\"venationes\") continued into the 6th century.\n\nEarly literary sources seldom agree on the origins of gladiators and the gladiator games. In the late 1st century BC, Nicolaus of Damascus believed they were Etruscan. A generation later, Livy wrote that they were first held in 310 BC by the Campanians in celebration of their victory over the Samnites. Long after the games had ceased, the 7th century AD writer Isidore of Seville derived Latin \"lanista\" (manager of gladiators) from the Etruscan word for \"executioner,\" and the title of Charon (an official who accompanied the dead from the Roman gladiatorial arena) from Charun, psychopomp of the Etruscan underworld. This was accepted and repeated in most early modern, standard histories of the games.\n\nReappraisal of pictorial evidence supports a Campanian origin, or at least a borrowing, for the games and gladiators. Campania hosted the earliest known gladiator schools (\"ludi\"). Tomb frescoes from the Campanian city of Paestum (4th century BC) show paired fighters, with helmets, spears and shields, in a propitiatory funeral blood-rite that anticipates early Roman gladiator games. Compared to these images, supporting evidence from Etruscan tomb-paintings is tentative and late. The Paestum frescoes may represent the continuation of a much older tradition, acquired or inherited from Greek colonists of the 8th century BC.\n\nLivy places the first Roman gladiator games (264 BC) in the early stage of Rome's First Punic War against Carthage, when Decimus Iunius Brutus Scaeva had three gladiator pairs fight to the death in Rome's \"cattle market\" Forum (\"Forum Boarium\") to honor his dead father, Brutus Pera. This is described as a \"munus\" (plural: \"munera\"), a commemorative duty owed the manes of a dead ancestor by his descendants. The development of the \"munus\" and its gladiator types was most strongly influenced by Samnium's support for Hannibal and the subsequent punitive expeditions against the Samnites by Rome and her Campanian allies; the earliest and most frequently mentioned type was the Samnite.\nThe war in Samnium, immediately afterwards, was attended with equal danger and an equally glorious conclusion. The enemy, besides their other warlike preparation, had made their battle-line to glitter with new and splendid arms. There were two corps: the shields of the one were inlaid with gold, of the other with silver ... The Romans had already heard of these splendid accoutrements, but their generals had taught them that a soldier should be rough to look on, not adorned with gold and silver but putting his trust in iron and in courage ... The Dictator, as decreed by the senate, celebrated a triumph, in which by far the finest show was afforded by the captured armour. So the Romans made use of the splendid armour of their enemies to do honour to their gods; while the Campanians, in consequence of their pride and in hatred of the Samnites, equipped after this fashion the gladiators who furnished them entertainment at their feasts, and bestowed on them the name Samnites. (Livy 9.40)\nLivy's account skirts the funereal, sacrificial function of early Roman gladiator combats and reflects the later theatrical ethos of the Roman gladiator show: splendidly, exotically armed and armoured barbarians, treacherous and degenerate, are dominated by Roman iron and native courage. His plain Romans virtuously dedicate the magnificent spoils of war to the Gods. Their Campanian allies stage a dinner entertainment using gladiators who may not be Samnites, but play the Samnite role. Other groups and tribes would join the cast list as Roman territories expanded. Most gladiators were armed and armoured in the manner of the enemies of Rome. The \"munus\" became a morally instructive form of historic enactment in which the only honourable option for the gladiator was to fight well, or else die well.\n\nIn 216 BC, Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, late consul and augur, was honoured by his sons with three days of \"gladiatora munera\" in the Forum Romanum, using twenty-two pairs of gladiators. Ten years later, Scipio Africanus gave a commemorative \"munus\" in Iberia for his father and uncle, casualties in the Punic Wars. High status non-Romans, and possibly Romans too, volunteered as his gladiators. The context of the Punic Wars and Rome's near-disastrous defeat at the Battle of Cannae (216 BC) link these early games to munificence, the celebration of military victory and the religious expiation of military disaster; these \"munera\" appear to serve a morale-raising agenda in an era of military threat and expansion. The next recorded \"munus\", held for the funeral of Publius Licinius in 183 BC, was more extravagant. It involved three days of funeral games, 120 gladiators, and public distribution of meat (\"visceratio data\") – a practice that reflected the gladiatorial fights at Campanian banquets described by Livy and later deplored by Silius Italicus.\n\nThe enthusiastic adoption of \"gladiatoria munera\" by Rome's Iberian allies shows how easily, and how early, the culture of the gladiator \"munus\" permeated places far from Rome itself. By 174 BC, \"small\" Roman \"munera\" (private or public), provided by an \"editor\" of relatively low importance, may have been so commonplace and unremarkable they were not considered worth recording:\nMany gladiatorial games were given in that year, some unimportant, one noteworthy beyond the rest — that of Titus Flamininus which he gave to commemorate the death of his father, which lasted four days, and was accompanied by a public distribution of meats, a banquet, and scenic performances. The climax of the show which was big for the time was that in three days seventy four gladiators fought.\nIn 105 BC, the ruling consuls offered Rome its first taste of state-sponsored \"barbarian combat\" demonstrated by gladiators from Capua, as part of a training program for the military. It proved immensely popular. Thereafter, the gladiator contests formerly restricted to private \"munera\" were often included in the state games (\"ludi\") that accompanied the major religious festivals. Where traditional \"ludi\" had been dedicated to a deity, such as Jupiter, the \"munera\" could be dedicated to an aristocratic sponsor's divine or heroic ancestor.\n\nGladiator games offered their sponsors extravagantly expensive but effective opportunities for self-promotion, and gave their clients and potential voters exciting entertainment at little or no cost to themselves. Gladiators became big business for trainers and owners, for politicians on the make and those who had reached the top and wished to stay there. A politically ambitious \"privatus\" (private citizen) might postpone his deceased father's \"munus\" to the election season, when a generous show might drum up votes; those in power and those seeking it needed the support of the plebeians and their tribunes, whose votes might be won with the mere promise of an exceptionally good show. Sulla, during his term as praetor, showed his usual acumen in breaking his own sumptuary laws to give the most lavish \"munus\" yet seen in Rome, on occasion of his wife's funeral.\n\nIn the closing years of the politically and socially unstable Late Republic, any aristocratic owner of gladiators had political muscle at his disposal. In 65 BC, newly elected curule aedile Julius Caesar held games that he justified as \"munus\" to his father, who had been dead for 20 years. Despite an already enormous personal debt, he used 320 gladiator pairs in silvered armour. He had more available in Capua but the Senate, mindful of the recent Spartacus revolt and fearful of Caesar's burgeoning private armies and rising popularity, imposed a limit of 320 pairs as the maximum number of gladiators any citizen could keep in Rome. Caesar's showmanship was unprecedented in scale and expense; he had staged a \"munus\" as memorial rather than funeral rite, eroding any practical or meaningful distinction between \"munus\" and \"ludi\".\n\nGladiatorial games, usually linked with beast shows, spread throughout the Republic and beyond. Anti-corruption laws of 65 and 63 BC attempted but failed to curb the political usefulness of the games to their sponsors. Following Caesar's assassination and the Roman Civil War, Augustus assumed Imperial authority over the games, including \"munera\", and formalised their provision as a civic and religious duty. His revision of sumptuary law capped private and public expenditure on \"munera\", claiming to save the Roman elite from the bankruptcies they would otherwise suffer, and restricted their performance to the festivals of Saturnalia and Quinquatria. Henceforth, the ceiling cost for a praetor's \"economical\" official \"munus\" employing a maximum 120 gladiators was to be 25,000 denarii; a \"generous\" Imperial \"ludi\" might cost no less than 180,000 denarii. Throughout the Empire, the greatest and most celebrated games would now be identified with the state-sponsored Imperial cult, which furthered public recognition, respect and approval for the Emperor's divine numen, his laws, and his agents. Between 108 and 109 AD, Trajan celebrated his Dacian victories using a reported 10,000 gladiators and 11,000 animals over 123 days. The cost of gladiators and \"munera\" continued to spiral out of control. Legislation of 177 AD by Marcus Aurelius did little to stop it, and was completely ignored by his son, Commodus.\n\nThe earliest \"munera\" took place at or near the tomb of the deceased and these were organised by their \"munerator\" (who made the offering). Later games were held by an \"editor\", either identical with the \"munerator\" or an official employed by him. As time passed, these titles and meanings may have merged. In the Republican era, private citizens could own and train gladiators, or lease them from a \"lanista\" (owner of a gladiator training school). From the Principate onwards, private citizens could hold munera and own gladiators only under Imperial permission, and the role of \"editor\" was increasingly tied to state officialdom. Legislation by Claudius required that quaestors, the lowest rank of Roman magistrate, personally subsidise two-thirds of the costs of games for their small-town communities – in effect, both an advertisement of their personal generosity and a part-purchase of their office. Bigger games were put on by senior magistrates, who could better afford them. The largest and most lavish of all were paid for by the emperor himself.\n\nThe earliest types of gladiator were named after Rome's enemies of that time: the Samnite, Thracian and Gaul. The Samnite, heavily armed, elegantly helmed and probably the most popular type, was renamed secutor and the Gaul renamed murmillo, once these former enemies had been conquered then absorbed into Rome's Empire. In the mid-republican \"munus\", each type seems to have fought against a similar or identical type. In the later Republic and early Empire, various \"fantasy\" types were introduced, and were set against dissimilar but complementary types. For example, the bareheaded, nimble retiarius (\"net-man\"), armoured only at the left arm and shoulder, pitted his net, trident and dagger against the more heavily armoured, helmeted Secutor. Most depictions of gladiators show the most common and popular types. Passing literary references to others has allowed their tentative reconstruction. Other novelties introduced around this time included gladiators who fought from chariots or carts, or from horseback.\n\nThe trade in gladiators was empire-wide, and subjected to official supervision. Rome's military success produced a supply of soldier-prisoners who were redistributed for use in State mines or amphitheatres and for sale on the open market. For example, in the aftermath of the Jewish Revolt, the gladiator schools received an influx of Jews – those rejected for training would have been sent straight to the arenas as \"noxii\" (lit. \"hurtful ones\"). The best – the most robust – were sent to Rome. In Rome's military ethos, enemy soldiers who had surrendered or allowed their own capture and enslavement had been granted an unmerited gift of life. Their training as gladiators would give them opportunity to redeem their honour in the \"munus\".\n\nTwo other sources of gladiators, found increasingly during the Principate and the relatively low military activity of the Pax Romana, were slaves condemned to the arena (\"damnati\"), to gladiator schools or games (\"ad ludum gladiatorium\") as punishment for crimes, and the paid volunteers (\"auctorati\") who by the late Republic may have comprised approximately half – and possibly the most capable half – of all gladiators. The use of volunteers had a precedent in the Iberian \"munus\" of Scipio Africanus; but none of those had been paid.\n\nFor the poor, and for non-citizens, enrollment in a gladiator school offered a trade, regular food, housing of sorts and a fighting chance of fame and fortune. Mark Antony chose a troupe of gladiators to be his personal bodyguard. Gladiators customarily kept their prize money and any gifts they received, and these could be substantial. Tiberius offered several retired gladiators 100,000 \"sesterces\" each to return to the arena. Nero gave the gladiator Spiculus property and residence \"equal to those of men who had celebrated triumphs.\"\n\nFrom the 60s AD female gladiators appear as rare and \"exotic markers of exceptionally lavish spectacle\". In 66 AD, Nero had Ethiopian women, men and children fight at a \"munus\" to impress the King Tiridates I of Armenia. Romans seem to have found the idea of a female gladiator novel and entertaining, or downright absurd; Juvenal titillates his readers with a woman named \"Mevia\", hunting boars in the arena \"with spear in hand and breasts exposed\", and Petronius mocks the pretensions of a rich, low-class citizen, whose \"munus\" includes a woman fighting from a cart or chariot. A \"munus\" of 89 AD, during Domitian's reign, featured a battle between female gladiators, described as \"Amazons\". In Halicarnassus, a 2nd-century AD relief depicts two female combatants named \"Amazon\" and \"Achillia\"; their match ended in a draw. In the same century, an epigraph praises one of Ostia's local elite as the first to \"arm women\" in the history of its games. Female gladiators probably submitted to the same regulations and training as their male counterparts. Roman morality required that all gladiators be of the lowest social classes, and emperors who failed to respect this distinction earned the scorn of posterity. Cassius Dio takes pains to point out that when the much admired emperor Titus used female gladiators, they were of acceptably low class.\n\nSome regarded female gladiators of any type or class as a symptom of corrupted Roman appetites, morals and womanhood. Before he became emperor, Septimius Severus may have attended the Antiochene Olympic Games, which had been revived by the emperor Commodus and included traditional Greek female athletics. His attempt to give Rome a similarly dignified display of female athletics was met by the crowd with ribald chants and cat-calls. Probably as a result, he banned the use of female gladiators in 200 AD.\n\nCaligula, Titus, Hadrian, Lucius Verus, Caracalla, Geta and Didius Julianus were all said to have performed in the arena, either in public or private, but risks to themselves were minimal. Claudius, characterised by his historians as morbidly cruel and boorish, fought a whale trapped in the harbor in front of a group of spectators. Commentators invariably disapproved of such performances.\n\nCommodus was a fanatical participant at the \"ludi\", and compelled Rome's elite to attend his performances as gladiator, \"bestiarius\" or \"venator\". Most of his performances as a gladiator were bloodless affairs, fought with wooden swords; he invariably won. He was said to have restyled Nero's colossal statue in his own image as \"Hercules Reborn\", dedicated to himself as \"Champion of \"secutores\"; only left-handed fighter to conquer twelve times one thousand men.\" He was said to have killed 100 lions in one day, almost certainly from an elevated platform surrounding the arena perimeter, which allowed him to safely demonstrate his marksmanship. On another occasion, he decapitated a running ostrich with a specially designed dart, carried the bloodied head and his sword over to the Senatorial seats and gesticulated as though they were next. As reward for these services, he drew a gigantic stipend from the public purse.\n\nGladiator games were advertised well beforehand, on billboards that gave the reason for the game, its editor, venue, date and the number of paired gladiators (\"ordinarii\") to be used. Other highlighted features could include details of \"venationes\", executions, music and any luxuries to be provided for the spectators, such as an awning against the sun, water sprinklers, food, drink, sweets and occasionally \"door prizes\". For enthusiasts and gamblers, a more detailed program (\"libellus\") was distributed on the day of the \"munus\", showing the names, types and match records of gladiator pairs, and their order of appearance. Left-handed gladiators were advertised as a rarity; they were trained to fight right-handers, which gave them an advantage over most opponents and produced an interestingly unorthodox combination.\n\nThe night before the \"munus\", the gladiators were given a banquet and opportunity to order their personal and private affairs; Futrell notes its similarity to a ritualistic or sacramental \"last meal\". These were probably both family and public events which included even the \"noxii\", sentenced to die in the arena the following day; and the \"damnati\", who would have at least a slender chance of survival. The event may also have been used to drum up more publicity for the imminent game.\n\nOfficial \"munera\" of the early Imperial era seem to have followed a standard form (\"munus legitimum\"). A procession (\"pompa\") entered the arena, led by lictors who bore the fasces that signified the magistrate-\"editor\"'s power over life and death. They were followed by a small band of trumpeters (\"tubicines\") playing a fanfare. Images of the gods were carried in to \"witness\" the proceedings, followed by a scribe to record the outcome, and a man carrying the palm branch used to honour victors. The magistrate \"editor\" entered among a retinue who carried the arms and armour to be used; the gladiators presumably came in last.\nThe entertainments often began with \"venationes\" (beast hunts) and \"bestiarii\" (beast fighters). Next came the \"ludi meridiani\", which were of variable content but usually involved executions of \"noxii\", some of whom were condemned to be subjects of fatal re-enactments, based on Greek or Roman myths. Gladiators may have been involved in these as executioners, though most of the crowd, and the gladiators themselves, preferred the \"dignity\" of an even contest. There were also comedy fights; some may have been lethal. A crude Pompeian graffito suggests a burlesque of musicians, dressed as animals named \"Ursus tibicen\" (flute-playing bear) and \"Pullus cornicen\" (horn-blowing chicken), perhaps as accompaniment to clowning by \"paegniarii\" during a \"mock\" contest of the \"ludi meridiani\".\n\nThe gladiators may have held informal warm-up matches, using blunted or dummy weapons – some \"munera\", however, may have used blunted weapons throughout. The \"editor,\" his representative or an honoured guest would check the weapons (\"probatio armorum\") for the scheduled matches. These were the highlight of the day, and were as inventive, varied and novel as the \"editor\" could afford. Armatures could be very costly – some were flamboyantly decorated with exotic feathers, jewels and precious metals. Increasingly the \"munus\" was the \"editor\"'s gift to spectators who had come to expect the best as their due.\n\nLightly armed and armoured fighters, such as the retiarius, would tire less rapidly than their heavily armed opponents; most bouts would have lasted 10 to 15 minutes, or 20 minutes at most. In late Republican \"munera\", between 10 and 13 matches could have been fought on one day; this assumes one match at a time in the course of an afternoon.\n\nSpectators preferred to watch highly skilled, well matched \"ordinarii\" with complementary fighting styles; these were the most costly to train and to hire. A general \"melee\" of several, lower-skilled gladiators was far less costly, but also less popular. Even among the \"ordinarii\", match winners might have to fight a new, well-rested opponent, either a \"tertiarius\" (\"third choice gladiator\") by prearrangement; or a \"substitute\" gladiator (\"suppositicius\") who fought at the whim of the \"editor\" as an unadvertised, unexpected \"extra\". This yielded two combats for the cost of three gladiators, rather than four; such contests were prolonged, and in some cases, more bloody. Most were probably of poor quality, but the emperor Caracalla chose to test a notably skilled and successful fighter named Bato against first one \"supposicitius\", whom he beat, and then another, who killed him. At the opposite level of the profession, a gladiator reluctant to confront his opponent might be whipped, or goaded with hot irons, until he engaged through sheer desperation.\nCombats between experienced, well trained gladiators demonstrated a considerable degree of stagecraft. Among the cognoscenti, bravado and skill in combat were esteemed over mere hacking and bloodshed; some gladiators made their careers and reputation from bloodless victories. Suetonius describes an exceptional \"munus\" by Nero, in which no-one was killed, \"not even \"noxii\" (enemies of the state).\"\n\nTrained gladiators were expected to observe professional rules of combat. Most matches employed a senior referee (\"summa rudis\") and an assistant, shown in mosaics with long staffs (\"rudes\") to caution or separate opponents at some crucial point in the match. Referees were usually retired gladiators whose decisions, judgement and discretion were, for the most part, respected; they could stop bouts entirely, or pause them to allow the combatants rest, refreshment and a rub-down.\n\nLudi and \"munera\" were accompanied by music, played as interludes, or building to a \"frenzied crescendo\" during combats, perhaps to heighten the suspense during a gladiator's appeal; blows may have been accompanied by trumpet-blasts. The Zliten mosaic in Libya (circa 80–100 AD) shows musicians playing an accompaniment to provincial games (with gladiators, \"bestiarii\", or \"venatores\" and prisoners attacked by beasts). Their instruments are a long straight trumpet (\"tubicen\"), a large curved horn (\"Cornu\") and a water organ (\"hydraulis\"). Similar representations (musicians, gladiators and \"bestiari\") are found on a tomb relief in Pompeii.\n\nA match was won by the gladiator who overcame his opponent, or killed him outright. Victors received the palm branch and an award from the \"editor\". An outstanding fighter might receive a laurel crown and money from an appreciative crowd but for anyone originally condemned \"ad ludum\" the greatest reward was manumission (emancipation), symbolised by the gift of a wooden training sword or staff (\"rudis\") from the \"editor\". Martial describes a match between Priscus and Verus, who fought so evenly and bravely for so long that when both acknowledged defeat at the same instant, Titus awarded victory and a \"rudis\" to each. Flamma was awarded the \"rudis\" four times, but chose to remain a gladiator. His gravestone in Sicily includes his record: \"Flamma, \"secutor\", lived 30 years, fought 34 times, won 21 times, fought to a draw 9 times, defeated 4 times, a Syrian by nationality. Delicatus made this for his deserving comrade-in-arms.\"\n\nA gladiator could acknowledge defeat by raising a finger (\"ad digitum\"), in appeal to the referee to stop the combat and refer to the \"editor\", whose decision would usually rest on the crowd's response. In the earliest \"munera\", death was considered a righteous penalty for defeat; later, those who fought well might be granted remission at the whim of the crowd or the \"editor\". During the Imperial era, matches advertised as \"sine missione\" (without remission from the sentence of death) suggest that \"missio\" (the sparing of a defeated gladiator's life) had become common practice. The contract between \"editor\" and his \"lanista\" could include compensation for unexpected deaths; this could be \"some fifty times higher than the lease price\" of the gladiator.\n\nUnder Augustus' rule, the demand for gladiators began to exceed supply, and matches \"sine missione\" were officially banned; an economical, pragmatic development that happened to match popular notions of \"natural justice\". When Caligula and Claudius refused to spare defeated but popular fighters, their own popularity suffered. In general, gladiators who fought well were likely to survive. At a Pompeian match between chariot-fighters, Publius Ostorius, with previous 51 wins to his credit, was granted missio after losing to Scylax, with 26 victories. By common custom, the spectators decided whether or not a losing gladiator should be spared, and chose the winner in the rare event of a standing tie. Even more rarely, perhaps uniquely, one stalemate ended in the killing of one gladiator by the \"editor\" himself. In any event, the final decision of death or life belonged to the \"editor\", who signalled his choice with a gesture described by Roman sources as \"pollice verso\" meaning \"with a turned thumb\"; a description too imprecise for reconstruction of the gesture or its symbolism. Whether victorious or defeated, a gladiator was bound by oath to accept or implement his editor's decision, \"the victor being nothing but the instrument of his [editor's] will.\" Not all \"editors\" chose to go with the crowd, and not all those condemned to death for putting on a poor show chose to submit:\n\nOnce a band of five \"retiarii\" in tunics, matched against the same number of \"secutores\", yielded without a struggle; but when their death was ordered, one of them caught up his trident and slew all the victors. Caligula bewailed this in a public proclamation as a most cruel murder.\nA gladiator who was refused \"missio\" was despatched by his opponent. To die well, a gladiator should never ask for mercy, nor cry out. A \"good death\" redeemed the gladiator from the dishonourable weakness and passivity of defeat, and provided a noble example to those who watched:\nFor death, when it stands near us, gives even to inexperienced men the courage not to seek to avoid the inevitable. So the gladiator, no matter how faint-hearted he has been throughout the fight, offers his throat to his opponent and directs the wavering blade to the vital spot. (Seneca. \"Epistles\", 30.8)\n\nSome mosaics show defeated gladiators kneeling in preparation for the moment of death. Seneca's \"vital spot\" seems to have meant the neck. Gladiator remains from Ephesus confirm this.\nThe body of a gladiator who had died well was placed on a couch of Libitina and removed with dignity to the arena morgue, where the corpse was stripped of armour, and probably had its throat cut to prove that dead was dead. The Christian author Tertullian, commenting on \"ludi meridiani\" in Roman Carthage during the peak era of the games, describes a more humiliating method of removal. One arena official, dressed as the \"brother of Jove\", Dis Pater (god of the underworld) strikes the corpse with a mallet. Another, dressed as Mercury, tests for life-signs with a heated \"wand\"; once confirmed as dead, the body is dragged from the arena.\n\nWhether these victims were gladiators or \"noxii\" is unknown. Modern pathological examination confirms the probably fatal use of a mallet on some, but not all the gladiator skulls found in a gladiators' cemetery. Kyle (1998) proposes that gladiators who disgraced themselves might have been subjected to the same indignities as \"noxii\", denied the relative mercies of a quick death and dragged from the arena as carrion. Whether the corpse of such a gladiator could be redeemed from further ignominy by friends or \"familia\" is not known.\n\nThe bodies of \"noxii\", and possibly some \"damnati\", were thrown into rivers or dumped unburied; Denial of funeral rites and memorial condemned the shade (\"manes\") of the deceased to restless wandering upon the earth as a dreadful \"larva\" or \"lemur\". Ordinary citizens, slaves and freedmen were usually buried beyond the town or city limits, to avoid the ritual and physical pollution of the living; professional gladiators had their own, separate cemeteries. The taint of \"infamia\" was perpetual.\n\nGladiators could subscribe to a union (\"collegia\"), which ensured their proper burial, and sometimes a pension or compensation for wives and children. Otherwise, the gladiator's \"familia\", which included his \"lanista\", comrades and blood-kin, might fund his funeral and memorial costs, and use the memorial to assert their moral reputation as responsible, respectful colleagues or family members. Some monuments record the gladiator's career in some detail, including the number of appearances, victories  —  sometimes represented by an engraved crown or wreath  —  defeats, career duration, and age at death. Some include the gladiator's type, in words or direct representation: for example, the memorial of a retiarius at Verona included an engraved trident and sword. A wealthy editor might commission artwork to celebrate a particularly successful or memorable show, and include named portraits of winners and losers in action; the Borghese Gladiator Mosaic is a notable example. According to Cassius Dio, the emperor Caracalla gave the gladiator Bato a magnificent memorial and State funeral; more typical are the simple gladiator tombs of the Eastern Roman Empire, whose brief inscriptions include the following:\n\n\"The familia set this up in memory of Saturnilos.\"\n\"For Nikepharos, son of Synetos, Lakedaimonian, and for Narcissus the secutor. Titus Flavius Satyrus set up this monument in his memory from his own money.\"\n\"For Hermes. Paitraeites with his cell-mates set this up in memory\".\nVery little evidence survives of the religious beliefs of gladiators as a class, or their expectations of an afterlife. Modern scholarship offers little support for the once-prevalent notion that gladiators, \"venatores\" and \"bestiarii\" were personally or professionally dedicated to the cult of the Graeco-Roman goddess Nemesis. Rather, she seems to have represented a kind of \"Imperial Fortuna\" who dispensed Imperial retribution on the one hand, and Imperially subsidised gifts on the other – including the \"munera\". One gladiator's tomb dedication clearly states that her decisions are not to be trusted. Many gladiator epitaphs claim Nemesis, fate, deception or treachery as the instrument of their death, never the superior skills of the flesh-and-blood adversary who defeated and killed them. Having no personal responsibility for his own defeat and death, the losing gladiator remains the better man, worth avenging.\n\n\"I, Victor, left-handed, lie here, but my homeland was in Thessalonica. Doom killed me, not the liar Pinnas. No longer let him boast. I had a fellow gladiator, Polyneikes, who killed Pinnas and avenged me. Claudius Thallus set up this memorial from what I left behind as a legacy.\"\nA gladiator might expect to fight in two or three munera annually, and an unknown number would have died in their first match. Few gladiators survived more than 10 contests, though one survived an extraordinary 150 bouts; and another died at 90 years of age, presumably long after retirement. A natural death following retirement is also likely for three individuals who died at 38, 45, and 48 years respectively. George Ville, using evidence from 1st century gladiator headstones, calculated an average age at death of 27, and mortality \"among all who entered the arena\" at 19/100. Marcus Junkelmann disputes Ville's calculation for average age at death; the majority would have received no headstone, and would have died early in their careers, at 18–25 years of age. Between the early and later Imperial periods the risk of death for defeated gladiators rose from 1/5 to 1/4, perhaps because \"missio\" was granted less often. Hopkins and Beard tentatively estimate a total of 400 arenas throughout the Roman Empire at its greatest extent, with a combined total of 8,000 deaths per annum from executions, combats and accidents.\n\nThe earliest named gladiator school (singular: \"ludus\"; plural: \"ludi\") is that of Aurelius Scaurus at Capua. He was \"lanista\" of the gladiators employed by the state circa 105 BC to instruct the legions and simultaneously entertain the public. Few other \"lanistae\" are known by name: they headed their \"familia gladiatoria\", and had lawful power over life and death of every family member, including \"servi poenae\", \"auctorati\" and ancillaries. Socially, they were \"infames\", on a footing with pimps and butchers and despised as price gougers. No such stigma was attached to a gladiator owner (\"munerarius\" or \"editor\") of good family, high status and independent means; Cicero congratulated his friend Atticus on buying a splendid troop – if he rented them out, he might recover their entire cost after two performances.\n\nThe Spartacus revolt had originated in a gladiator school privately owned by Lentulus Batiatus, and had been suppressed only after a protracted series of costly, sometimes disastrous campaigns by regular Roman troops. In the late Republican era, a fear of similar uprisings, the usefulness of gladiator schools in creating private armies, and the exploitation of \"munera\" for political gain led to increased restrictions on gladiator school ownership, siting and organisation. By Domitian's time, many had been more or less absorbed by the State, including those at Pergamum, Alexandria, Praeneste and Capua. The city of Rome itself had four; the \"Ludus Magnus\" (the largest and most important, housing up to about 2,000 gladiators), \"Ludus Dacicus\", \"Ludus Gallicus\", and the \"Ludus Matutinus\", which trained \"bestiarii\".\n\nIn the Imperial era, volunteers required a magistrate's permission to join a school as \"auctorati\". If this was granted, the school's physician assessed their suitability. Their contract (\"auctoramentum\") stipulated how often they were to perform, their fighting style and earnings. A condemned bankrupt or debtor accepted as novice (\"novicius\") could negotiate with his \"lanista\" or \"editor\" for the partial or complete payment of his debt. Faced with runaway re-enlistment fees for skilled \"auctorati\", Marcus Aurelius set their upper limit at 12,000 \"sesterces\".\n\nAll prospective gladiators, whether volunteer or condemned, were bound to service by a sacred oath (\"sacramentum\"). Novices (\"novicii\") trained under teachers of particular fighting styles, probably retired gladiators. They could ascend through a hierarchy of grades (singular: \"palus\") in which \"primus palus\" was the highest. Lethal weapons were prohibited in the schools – weighted, blunt wooden versions were probably used. Fighting styles were probably learned through constant rehearsal as choreographed \"numbers\". An elegant, economical style was preferred. Training included preparation for a stoical, unflinching death. Successful training required intense commitment.\n\nThose condemned \"ad ludum\" were probably branded or marked with a tattoo (\"stigma\", plural \"stigmata\") on the face, legs and/or hands. These \"stigmata\" may have been text – slaves were sometimes thus marked on the forehead until Constantine banned the use of facial stigmata in 325 AD. Soldiers were routinely marked on the hand.\n\nGladiators were typically accommodated in cells, arranged in barrack formation around a central practice arena. Juvenal describes the segregation of gladiators according to type and status, suggestive of rigid hierarchies within the schools: \"even the lowest scum of the arena observe this rule; even in prison they're separate\". \"Retiarii\" were kept away from \"damnati\", and \"fag targeteers\" from \"armoured heavies\". As most \"ordinarii\" at games were from the same school, this kept potential opponents separate and safe from each other until the lawful \"munus\". Discipline could be extreme, even lethal. Remains of a Pompeian \"ludus\" site attest to developments in supply, demand and discipline; in its earliest phase, the building could accommodate 15–20 gladiators. Its replacement could have housed about 100 and included a very small cell, probably for lesser punishments and so low that standing was impossible.\n\nDespite the harsh discipline, gladiators represented a substantial investment for their \"lanista\" and were otherwise well fed and cared for. Their daily, high-energy, vegetarian diet consisted of barley, boiled beans, oatmeal, ash and dried fruit. Gladiators were sometimes called \"hordearii\" (\"eaters of barley)\". Romans considered barley inferior to wheat — a punishment for legionaries replaced their wheat ration with it — but it was thought to strengthen the body. Regular massage and high quality medical care helped mitigate an otherwise very severe training regimen. Part of Galen's medical training was at a gladiator school in Pergamum where he saw (and would later criticise) the training, diet, and long term health prospects of the gladiators.\n\n\"He vows to endure to be burned, to be bound, to be beaten, and to be killed by the sword.\" \"The gladiator's oath as cited by Petronius (Satyricon, 117).\"\nModern customs and institutions offer few useful parallels to the legal and social context of the \"gladiatoria munera\" In Roman law, anyone condemned to the arena or the gladiator schools (\"damnati ad ludum\") was a \"servus poenae\" (slave of the penalty), and was considered to be under sentence of death unless manumitted. A rescript of Hadrian reminded magistrates that \"those sentenced to the sword\" (execution) should be despatched immediately \"or at least within the year\", and those sentenced to the \"ludi\" should not be discharged before five years, or three years if granted manumission. Only slaves found guilty of specific offences could be sentenced to the arena; however, citizens found guilty of particular offenses could be stripped of citizenship, formally enslaved, then sentenced; and slaves, once freed, could be legally reverted to slavery for certain offences. Arena punishment could be given for banditry, theft and arson, and for treasons such as rebellion, census evasion to avoid paying due taxes and refusal to swear lawful oaths.\n\nOffenders seen as particularly obnoxious to the state (\"noxii\") received the most humiliating punishments. By the 1st century BC, \"noxii\" were being condemned to the beasts (\"damnati ad bestias\") in the arena, with almost no chance of survival, or were made to kill each other. From the early Imperial era, some were forced to participate in humiliating and novel forms of mythological or historical enactment, culminating in their execution. Those judged less harshly might be condemned \"ad ludum venatorium\" or \"ad gladiatorium\" – combat with animals or gladiators – and armed as thought appropriate. These \"damnati\" at least might put on a good show and retrieve some respect, and very rarely, survive to fight another day. Some may even have become \"proper\" gladiators.\n\nAmong the most admired and skilled \"auctorati\" were those who, having been granted manumission, volunteered to fight in the arena. Some of these highly trained and experienced specialists may have had no other practical choice open to them. Their legal status – slave or free – is uncertain. Under Roman law, a freed gladiator could not \"offer such services [as those of a gladiator] after manumission, because they cannot be performed without endangering [his] life.\" All contracted volunteers, including those of equestrian and senatorial class, were legally enslaved by their \"auctoratio\" because it involved their potentially lethal submission to a master. All \"arenarii\" (those who appeared in the arena) were \"\"infames\" by reputation\", a form of social dishonour which excluded them from most of the advantages and rights of citizenship. Payment for such appearances compounded their \"infamia\". The legal and social status of even the most popular and wealthy \"auctorati\" was thus marginal at best. They could not vote, plead in court nor leave a will; and unless they were manumitted, their lives and property belonged to their masters. Nevertheless, there is evidence of informal if not entirely lawful practices to the contrary. Some \"unfree\" gladiators bequeathed money and personal property to wives and children, possibly via a sympathetic owner or \"familia\"; some had their own slaves and gave them their freedom. One gladiator was even granted \"citizenship\" to several Greek cities of the Eastern Roman world.\n\nCaesar's \"munus\" of 46 BC included at least one equestrian, son of a Praetor, and two volunteers of possible senatorial rank. Augustus, who enjoyed watching the games, forbade the participation of senators, equestrians and their descendants as fighters or \"arenarii\", but in 11 AD he bent his own rules and allowed equestrians to volunteer because \"the prohibition was no use\". Under Tiberius, the Larinum decree (19AD) reiterated Augustus' original prohibitions. Thereafter, Caligula flouted them and Claudius strengthened them. Nero and Commodus ignored them. Even after the adoption of Christianity as Rome's official religion, legislation forbade the involvement of Rome's upper social classes in the games, though not the games themselves. Throughout Rome's history, some volunteers were prepared to risk loss of status or reputation by appearing in the arena, whether for payment, glory or, as in one recorded case, to revenge an affront to their personal honour. In one extraordinary episode, an aristocratic descendant of the Gracchi, already infamous for his marriage, as a bride, to a male horn player, appeared in what may have been a non-lethal or farcical match. His motives are unknown, but his voluntary and \"shameless\" arena appearance combined the \"womanly attire\" of a lowly \"retiarius tunicatus\", adorned with golden ribbons, with the apex headdress that marked him out as a priest of Mars. In Juvenal's account, he seems to have relished the scandalous self-display, applause and the disgrace he inflicted on his more sturdy opponent by repeatedly skipping away from the confrontation.\n\nAs \"munera\" grew larger and more popular, open spaces such as the Forum Romanum were adapted (as the Forum Boarium had been) as venues in Rome and elsewhere, with temporary, elevated seating for the patron and high status spectators; they were popular but not truly public events:\n\nA show of gladiators was to be exhibited before the people in the market-place, and most of the magistrates erected scaffolds round about, with an intention of letting them for advantage. Caius commanded them to take down their scaffolds, that the poor people might see the sport without paying anything. But nobody obeying these orders of his, he gathered together a body of labourers, who worked for him, and overthrew all the scaffolds the very night before the contest was to take place. So that by the next morning the market-place was cleared, and the common people had an opportunity of seeing the pastime. In this, the populace thought he had acted the part of a man; but he much disobliged the tribunes his colleagues, who regarded it as a piece of violent and presumptuous interference.\n\nTowards the end of the Republic, Cicero (\"Murena\", 72–3) still describes gladiator shows as ticketed — their political usefulness was served by inviting the rural tribunes of the plebs, not the people of Rome \"en masse\" – but in Imperial times, poor citizens in receipt of the corn dole were allocated at least some free seating, possibly by lottery. Others had to pay. Ticket scalpers (\"Locarii\") sometimes sold or let out seats at inflated prices. Martial wrote that \"Hermes [a gladiator who always drew the crowds] means riches for the ticket scalpers\".\n\nThe earliest known Roman amphitheatre was built at Pompeii by Sullan colonists, around 70 BC. The first in the city of Rome was the extraordinary wooden amphitheatre of Gaius Scribonius Curio (built in 53 BC). The first part-stone amphitheatre in Rome was inaugurated in 29–30 BC, in time for the triple triumph of Octavian (later Augustus). Shortly after it burned down in 64 AD, Vespasian began its replacement, later known as the Amphitheatrum Flavium (Colosseum), which seated 50,000 spectators and would remain the largest in the Empire. It was inaugurated by Titus in 80 AD as the personal gift of the Emperor to the people of Rome, paid for by the imperial share of booty after the Jewish Revolt.\n\nAmphitheatres were usually oval in plan. Their seating tiers surrounded the arena below, where the community's judgments were meted out, in full public view. From across the stands, crowd and \"editor\" could assess each other's character and temperament. For the crowd, amphitheatres afforded unique opportunities for free expression and free speech (\"theatralis licentia\"). Petitions could be submitted to the \"editor\" (as magistrate) in full view of the community. \"Factiones\" and claques could vent their spleen on each other, and occasionally on Emperors. The emperor Titus's dignified yet confident ease in his management of an amphitheatre crowd and its factions were taken as a measure of his enormous popularity and the rightness of his imperium. The amphitheatre \"munus\" thus served the Roman community as living theatre and a court in miniature, in which judgement could be served not only on those in the arena below, but on their judges. Amphitheatres also provided a means of social control. Their seating was \"disorderly and indiscriminate\" until Augustus prescribed its arrangement in his Social Reforms. To persuade the Senate, he expressed his distress on behalf of a Senator who could not find seating at a crowded games in Puteoli:\nIn consequence of this the senate decreed that, whenever any public show was given anywhere, the first row of seats should be reserved for senators; and at Rome he would not allow the envoys of the free and allied nations to sit in the orchestra, since he was informed that even freedmen were sometimes appointed. He separated the soldiery from the people. He assigned special seats to the married men of the commons, to boys under age their own section and the adjoining one to their preceptors; and he decreed that no one wearing a dark cloak should sit in the middle of the house. He would not allow women to view even the gladiators except from the upper seats, though it had been the custom for men and women to sit together at such shows. Only the Vestal virgins were assigned a place to themselves, opposite the praetor's tribunal.\nThese arrangements do not seem to have been strongly enforced.\n\nPopular factions supported favourite gladiators and gladiator types. Under Augustan legislation, the Samnite type was renamed \"Secutor\" (\"chaser\", or \"pursuer\"). The secutor was equipped with a long, heavy \"large\" shield called a \"scutum\"); \"Secutores\", their supporters and any heavyweight \"secutor\"-based types such as the Murmillo were \"secutarii\". Lighter types, such as the Thraex, were equipped with a smaller, lighter shield called a \"parma\", from which they and their supporters were named \"parmularii\" (\"small shields\"). Titus and Trajan preferred the \"parmularii\" and Domitian the \"secutarii\"; Marcus Aurelius took neither side. Nero seems to have enjoyed the brawls between rowdy, enthusiastic and sometimes violent factions, but called in the troops if they went too far.\n\nThere were also local rivalries. At Pompeii's amphitheatre, during Nero's reign, the trading of insults between Pompeians and Nucerian spectators during public \"ludi\" led to stone throwing and riot. Many were killed or wounded. Nero banned gladiator \"munera\" (though not the games) at Pompeii for ten years as punishment. The story is told in Pompeian graffiti and high quality wall painting, with much boasting of Pompeii's \"victory\" over Nuceria.\n\nA man who knows how to conquer in war is a man who knows how to arrange a banquet and put on a show.\nRome was essentially a landowning military aristocracy. From the early days of the Republic, ten years of military service were a citizen's duty and a prerequisite for election to public office. \"Devotio\" (willingness to sacrifice one’s life to the greater good) was central to the Roman military ideal, and was the core of the Roman military oath. It applied from highest to lowest alike in the chain of command. As a soldier committed his life (voluntarily, at least in theory) to the greater cause of Rome's victory, he was not expected to survive defeat.\n\nThe Punic Wars of the late 3rd century BC – in particular the near-catastrophic defeat of Roman arms at Cannae – had long-lasting effects on the Republic, its citizen armies, and the development of the gladiatorial \"munera\". In the aftermath of Cannae, Scipio Africanus crucified Roman deserters and had non-Roman deserters thrown to the beasts. The Senate refused to ransom Hannibal's Roman captives: instead, they consulted the Sibylline books, then made drastic preparations:\nIn obedience to the Books of Destiny, some strange and unusual sacrifices were made, human sacrifices amongst them. A Gaulish man and a Gaulish woman and a Greek man and a Greek woman were buried alive under the Forum Boarium ... They were lowered into a stone vault, which had on a previous occasion also been polluted by human victims, a practice most repulsive to Roman feelings. When the gods were believed to be duly propitiated ... Armour, weapons, and other things of the kind were ordered to be in readiness, and the ancient spoils gathered from the enemy were taken down from the temples and colonnades. The dearth of freemen necessitated a new kind of enlistment; 8,000 sturdy youths from amongst the slaves were armed at the public cost, after they had each been asked whether they were willing to serve or no. These soldiers were preferred, as there would be an opportunity of ransoming them when taken prisoners at a lower price.\nThe account notes, uncomfortably, the bloodless human sacrifices performed to help turn the tide of the war in Rome's favour. While the Senate mustered their willing slaves, Hannibal offered his dishonoured Roman captives a chance for honourable death, in what Livy describes as something very like the Roman \"munus\". The \"munus\" thus represented an essentially military, self-sacrificial ideal, taken to extreme fulfillment in the gladiator's oath. By the \"devotio\" of a voluntary oath, a slave might achieve the quality of a Roman (\"Romanitas\"), become the embodiment of true \"virtus\" (manliness, or manly virtue), and paradoxically, be granted \"missio\" while remaining a slave. The gladiator as a specialist fighter, and the ethos and organization of the gladiator schools, would inform the development of the Roman military as the most effective force of its time. In 107 BC, the Marian Reforms established the Roman army as a professional body. Two years later, following its defeat at Arausio:\n...weapons training was given to soldiers by P. Rutilius, consul with C. Mallis. For he, following the example of no previous general, with teachers summoned from the gladiatorial training school of C. Aurelus Scaurus, implanted in the legions a more sophisticated method of avoiding and dealing a blow and mixed bravery with skill and skill back again with virtue so that skill became stronger by bravery's passion and passion became more wary with the knowledge of this art.\nThe military were great aficionados of the games, and supervised the schools. Many schools and amphitheatres were sited at or near military barracks, and some provincial army units owned gladiator troupes. As the Republic wore on, the term of military service increased from ten to the sixteen years formalised by Augustus in the Principate. It would rise to twenty, and later, to twenty five years. Roman military discipline was ferocious; severe enough to provoke mutiny, despite the consequences. A career as a volunteer gladiator may have seemed an attractive option for some.\n\nIn AD 69, the Year of the Four Emperors, Otho's troops at Bedriacum included 2000 gladiators. Opposite him on the field, Vitellius's army was swollen by levies of slaves, plebs and gladiators. In 167 AD, troop depletions by plague and desertion may have prompted Marcus Aurelius to draft gladiators at his own expense. During the Civil Wars that led to the Principate, Octavian (later Augustus) acquired the personal gladiator troop of his erstwhile opponent, Mark Antony. They had served their late master with exemplary loyalty but thereafter, they disappear from the record.\n\nRoman writing as a whole demonstrates a deep ambivalence towards the \"gladiatoria munera\". Even the most complex and sophisticated \"munera\" of the Imperial era evoked the ancient, ancestral \"dii manes\" of the underworld and were framed by the protective, lawful rites of \"sacrificium\". Their popularity made their co-option by the state inevitable; Cicero acknowledged their sponsorship as a political imperative. Despite the popular adulation of gladiators, they were set apart, despised; and despite Cicero's contempt for the mob, he shared their admiration: \"Even when [gladiators] have been felled, let alone when they are standing and fighting, they never disgrace themselves. And suppose a gladiator has been brought to the ground, when do you ever see one twist his neck away after he has been ordered to extend it for the death blow?\" His own death would later emulate this example. Yet, Cicero could also refer to his popularist opponent Clodius, publicly and scathingly, as a \"bustuarius\" – literally, a \"funeral-man\", implying that Clodius has shown the moral temperament of the lowest sort of gladiator. \"Gladiator\" could be (and was) used as an insult throughout the Roman period, and \"Samnite\" doubled the insult, despite the popularity of the Samnite type. Silius Italicus wrote, as the games approached their peak, that the degenerate Campanians had devised the very worst of precedents, which now threatened the moral fabric of Rome: \"It was their custom to enliven their banquets with bloodshed and to combine with their feasting the horrid sight of armed men [(Samnites)] fighting; often the combatants fell dead above the very cups of the revelers, and the tables were stained with streams of blood. Thus demoralised was Capua.\" Death could be rightly meted out as punishment, or met with equanimity in peace or war, as a gift of fate; but when inflicted as entertainment, with no underlying moral or religious purpose, it could only pollute and demean those who witnessed it.\nThe \"munus\" itself could be interpreted as pious necessity, but its increasing luxury corroded Roman virtue, and created an un-Roman appetite for profligacy and self-indulgence. Caesar's 46 BC \"ludi\" were mere entertainment for political gain, a waste of lives and of money that would have been better doled out to his legionary veterans. Yet for Seneca, and for Marcus Aurelius – both professed Stoics – the degradation of gladiators in the \"munus\" highlighted their Stoic virtues: their unconditional obedience to their master and to fate, and equanimity in the face of death. Having \"neither hope nor illusions\", the gladiator could transcend his own debased nature, and disempower death itself by meeting it face to face. Courage, dignity, altruism and loyalty were morally redemptive; Lucian idealised this principle in his story of Sisinnes, who voluntarily fought as a gladiator, earned 10,000 drachmas and used it to buy freedom for his friend, Toxaris. Seneca had a lower opinion of the mob's un-Stoical appetite for \"ludi meridiani\": \"Man [is]...now slaughtered for jest and sport; and those whom it used to be unholy to train for the purpose of inflicting and enduring wounds are thrust forth exposed and defenceless.\"\n\nThese accounts seek a higher moral meaning from the \"munus\", but Ovid's very detailed (though satirical) instructions for seduction in the amphitheatre suggest that the spectacles could generate a potent and dangerously sexual atmosphere. Augustan seating prescriptions placed women – excepting the Vestals, who were legally inviolate – as far as possible from the action of the arena floor; or tried to. There remained the thrilling possibility of clandestine sexual transgression by high-caste spectators and their heroes of the arena. Such assignations were a source for gossip and satire but some became unforgivably public:\nWhat was the youthful charm that so fired Eppia? What hooked her? What did she see in him to make her put up with being called \"the gladiator's moll\"? Her poppet, her Sergius, was no chicken, with a dud arm that prompted hope of early retirement. Besides his face looked a proper mess, helmet-scarred, a great wart on his nose, an unpleasant discharge always trickling from one eye. But he was a gladiator. That word makes the whole breed seem handsome, and made her prefer him to her children and country, her sister, her husband. Steel is what they fall in love with.\nEppia – a senator's wife – and her Sergius eloped to Egypt, where he deserted her. Most gladiators would have aimed lower. Two wall \"graffiti\" in Pompeii describe Celadus the Thraex as \"the sigh of the girls\" and \"the glory of the girls\" – which may or may not have been Celadus' own wishful thinking.\n\nIn the later Imperial era, Servius Maurus Honoratus uses the same disparaging term as Cicero – \"bustuarius\" – for gladiators. Tertullian used it somewhat differently – all victims of the arena were sacrificial in his eyes – and expressed the paradox of the \"arenarii\" as a class, from a Christian viewpoint:\nOn the one and the same account they glorify them and they degrade and diminish them; yes, further, they openly condemn them to disgrace and civil degradation; they keep them religiously excluded from council chamber, rostrum, senate, knighthood, and every other kind of office and a good many distinctions. The perversity of it! They love whom they lower; they despise whom they approve; the art they glorify, the artist they disgrace.\nIn this new Play, I attempted to follow the old custom of mine, of making a fresh trial; I brought it on again. In the first Act I pleased; when in the meantime a rumor spread that gladiators were about to be exhibited; the populace flock together, make a tumult, clamor aloud, and fight for their places: meantime, I was unable to maintain my place.\n\nImages of gladiators could be found throughout the Republic and Empire, among all classes. Walls in the 2nd century BC \"Italian Agora\" at Delos were decorated with paintings of gladiators. Mosaics dating from the 2nd through 4th centuries AD have been invaluable in the reconstruction of combat and its rules, gladiator types and the development of the \"munus\". Throughout the Roman world, ceramics, lamps, gems and jewellery, mosaics, reliefs, wall paintings and statuary offer evidence, sometimes the best evidence, of the clothing, props, equipment, names, events, prevalence and rules of gladiatorial combat. Earlier periods provide only occasional, perhaps exceptional examples. The Gladiator Mosaic in the Galleria Borghese displays several gladiator types, and the Bignor Roman Villa mosaic from Provincial Britain shows Cupids as gladiators. Souvenir ceramics were produced depicting named gladiators in combat; similar images of higher quality, were available on more expensive articles in high quality ceramic, glass or silver.\n\nPliny the Elder gives vivid examples of the popularity of gladiator portraiture in Antium and an artistic treat laid on by an adoptive aristocrat for the solidly plebeian citizens of the Roman Aventine:\nWhen a freedman of Nero was giving a gladiatorial show at Antium, the public porticoes were covered with paintings, so we are told, containing life-like portraits of all the gladiators and assistants. This portraiture of gladiators has been the highest interest in art for many centuries now, but it was Gaius Terentius who began the practice of having pictures made of gladiatorial shows and exhibited in public; in honour of his grandfather who had adopted him he provided thirty pairs of Gladiators in the Forum for three consecutive days, and exhibited a picture of the matches in the Grove of Diana.\nThe decline of the \"munus\" was a far from straightforward process. The crisis of the 3rd century imposed increasing military demands on the imperial purse, from which the Roman Empire never quite recovered, and lesser magistrates found the obligatory \"munera\" an increasingly unrewarding tax on the doubtful privileges of office. Still, emperors continued to subsidize the games as a matter of undiminished public interest. In the early 3rd century AD, the Christian writer Tertullian had acknowledged their power over the Christian flock, and was compelled to be blunt: the combats were murder, their witnessing spiritually and morally harmful and the gladiator an instrument of pagan human sacrifice. In the next century, Augustine of Hippo deplored the youthful fascination of his friend (and later fellow-convert and Bishop) Alypius of Thagaste, with the \"munera\" spectacle as inimical to a Christian life and salvation. Amphitheatres continued to host the spectacular administration of Imperial justice: in 315 Constantine the Great condemned child-snatchers \"ad bestias\" in the arena. Ten years later, he banned the gladiator \"munera\":\n\nIn times in which peace and peace relating to domestic affairs prevail bloody demonstrations displease us. Therefore, we order that there may be no more gladiator combats. Those who were condemned to become gladiators for their crimes are to work from now on in the mines. Thus they pay for their crimes without having to pour their blood.\n\nAn imperially sanctioned \"munus\" at some time in the 330s suggests that yet again, imperial legislation failed to entirely curb the games, not least when Constantine defied his own law. In 365, Valentinian I (r. 364–375) threatened to fine a judge who sentenced Christians to the arena and in 384 attempted, like most of his predecessors, to limit the expenses of \"munera\".\n\nIn 393, Theodosius I (r. 379–395) adopted Nicene Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire and banned pagan festivals. The \"ludi\" continued, very gradually shorn of their stubbornly pagan \"munera\". Honorius (r. 395–423) legally ended \"munera\" in 399, and again in 404, at least in the Western Roman Empire. According to Theodoret, the ban was in consequence of Saint Telemachus' martyrdom by spectators at a \"munus.\" Valentinian III (r. 425–455) repeated the ban in 438, perhaps effectively, though \"venationes\" continued beyond 536. By this time, interest in \"munera\" had waned throughout the Roman world. In the Byzantine Empire, theatrical shows and chariot races continued to attract the crowds, and drew a generous Imperial subsidy.\nIt is not known how many \"gladiatoria munera\" were given throughout the Roman period. Many, if not most, involved \"venationes\", and in the later Empire some may have been only that. In 165 BC, at least one \"munus\" was held during April's Megalesia. In the early Imperial era, \"munera\" in Pompeii and neighbouring towns were dispersed from March through November. They included a provincial magnate's five-day \"munus\" of thirty pairs, plus beast-hunts. A single late primary source, the \"Calendar of Furius Dionysius Philocalus\" for 354, shows how seldom gladiators featured among a multitude of official festivals. Of 176 days reserved for spectacles of various kinds, 102 were for theatrical shows, 64 for chariot races and just 10 in December for gladiator games and \"venationes\". A century before this, the emperor Alexander Severus (r. 222–235) may have intended a more even redistribution of \"munera\" throughout the year; but this would have broken with what had become the traditional positioning of the major gladiator games, at the year's ending. As Wiedemann points out, December was also the month for the Saturnalia, Saturn's festival, in which death was linked to renewal, and the lowest were honoured as the highest.\n\nSome Roman reenactors attempt to recreate Roman gladiator troupes. Some of these groups are part of larger Roman reenactment groups, and others are wholly independent, though they might participate in larger demonstrations of Roman reenacting or historical reenacting in general. These groups usually focus on portraying mock gladiatorial combat in as accurate a manner as possible.\n\nGladiator fights have been depicted in a number of peplum films (also known as \"sword-and-sandal\" movies). This is a genre of largely Italian-made historical epics (costume dramas) that dominated the Italian film industry from 1958 to 1965. They can be immediately differentiated from the competing Hollywood product by their use of dubbing. The pepla attempted to emulate the big-budget Hollywood historical epics of the time, such as \"Spartacus\". Inspired by the success of \"Spartacus\", there were a number of Italian peplums that emphasized the gladiatorial arena fights in their plots, with it becoming almost a peplum subgenre in itself; One group of supermen known as \"The Ten Gladiators\" appeared in a trilogy, all three films starring Dan Vadis in the lead role.\n\n\n\"The Arena\" (also known as the \"Naked Warriors\") is a 1974 gladiator exploitation film, starring Margaret Markov and Pam Grier, and directed by Steve Carver and an uncredited Joe D'Amato. Grier and Markov portray female gladiators in ancient Rome, who have been enslaved and must fight for their freedom. \"Gladiator\" is a 2000 British-American epic historical drama film directed by Ridley Scott, and starring Russell Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix. Crowe portrays a fictional Roman general who is reduced to slavery and then rises through the ranks of the gladiatorial arena to avenge the murder of his family. \"Amazons and Gladiators\" is a 2001 drama action adventure film directed and written by Zachary Weintraub starring Patrick Bergin and Jennifer Rubin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306326", "title": "Ignorance", "text": "Ignorance\n\nIgnorance is a lack of knowledge. The word ignorant is an adjective that describes a person in the state of being unaware, and can describe individuals who deliberately ignore or disregard important information or facts, or individuals who are unaware of important information or facts. Ignorance can appear in three different types: factual ignorance (absence of knowledge of some fact), objectual ignorance (unacquaintance with some object), and technical ignorance (absence of knowledge of how to do something).\n\nPeople do not experience instant gratification and therefore they do not invest time and effort in learning and developing. Eradicating ignorance completely from an individual’s life is an impossible task but reducing the gap can truly benefit the individual in a long term.\n\nAlso, making the decision to remain ignorant by committing to an ideology despite scientific proof is a dangerous mindset that can inhibit an individual from discovering the truth and therefore developing as an individual.\n\nIgnorance can stifle learning, especially if the ignorant person believes it is not ignorant. A person who falsely believes it is knowledgeable, does not try to clarify its beliefs, but rather relies on the ignorant position. It may also reject valid but contrary information, neither realizing its importance nor understanding it. This concept is elucidated in Justin Kruger and David Dunning's work, \"Unskilled and Unaware of It: How Difficulties in Recognizing One's Own Incompetence Lead to Inflated Self-Assessments\", otherwise known as the Dunning–Kruger effect.\n\nAnother reason why people are not able to obtain knowledge is inaccessibility to education. In some parts of the world, educational infrastructure is insufficient and therefore people are not able to seek for knowledge. The phenomenon can be observed widely in underdeveloped countries where many children either cannot afford to go to school or live too far from a school. On the other hand, in developed countries most children have access to a K12 education but once they graduate high school they encounter obstacles to pursue a higher education due to high costs. This lack of education can contribute to individuals not being able to practice critical thinking and seek for knowledge for themselves.\n\nRemaining in a state of ignorance can lead to serious economic downfalls, relationship crises, legal issues, and more. It is important for human survival to be knowledgeable on different topics. For example, one must be aware of ways to prevent certain diseases, avoid certain poisonous foods, avoid war, etc..\n\nIndividuals who are financially literate can manage finances wisely and therefore create a more stable life for themselves and their families. People who understand finance and economics can vote better on local and national economic regulations that benefit the whole society.\n\nAnother important aspect is ignorance in the legal field. People must be aware of laws so they can live free and in harmony with others. Ignorance of the law is not accepted as a legal defense, so it is the responsibility of the individual to know the law. Willingly ignoring the law can lead to arrest or isolated living.\n\nIgnorance can have a negative effects on individuals and societies, but can also benefit them by creating within them the desire to know more. For example, ignorance within science opens the opportunity to seek knowledge and make discoveries by asking new questions. This though can only take place if the individual possesses a curious mind.\n\nStudies suggest that adults with an adequate education who perform enriching and challenging jobs are happier, and more in control of their environment. The confidence that adults obtain through the sense of control that education provides allows those adults to go for more leadership positions and seek for power throughout their lives.\n\nThe writer, Thomas Pynchon, articulated the following about the scope and structure of one's ignorance: \"Ignorance is not just a blank space on a person's mental map. It has contours and coherence, and for all I know rules of operation as well. So as a corollary to [the advice of] writing about what we know, maybe we should add getting familiar with our ignorance, and the possibilities therein for writing a good story.\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28885249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28885249", "title": "Involuntary narrative", "text": "Involuntary narrative\n\nAn involuntary narrative occurs as a personal reading of symbolic content transmitted by media-saturated environments. Exposure to postmodern nonlinear narratives, performative and mediated audiovisual arts, predisposes the individual to originate layers of symbolic meaning that overlap with socially codified environments.\nThe involuntary narrative has neither been constructed by an author of media content, nor read as such by a reader/spectator.\n\nIllusion and displacement are some of the effects resulting in an individual, when connections are drawn between a trigger in one sensory channel and a result in another, virtual and physical states and conditions of one and the same object, media or technology are perceived as a continuum. \nWhen a purposeful overlap of the physical and the virtual takes place, it could be called vireal (Gramelsberger, Klein).\n\nThe involuntary narrative, hypnagogia and the Dreamachine, trigger what is already in the individual by referring to his or her own past history. The involuntary narrative is accidental and in that differs from both the hypnagogic state and the state induced by the Dreamachine.\n\nAuditive and visual signals, as for example mobile phone ringtones, virtual identity thumbnails, alert sounds, signals and information screens in public transport, adverts displayed in LED screens, constitute stimuli to trigger the occurrence of an involuntary narrative.\nAnamnesis, as used by Pascal Broccolichi in his work \"Lexicon:\" ”when a sound, or a sound context, recalls a situation or an environment that has been taken out of its chronology”.\n\nAs the density of visible and audible mass communication in the urban environment increased in the 20th century, historical predecessors of involuntary narratives emerged. The attempt to create parallel levels of meaning in the perception of the physically real is an objective these predecessors have in common.\nApplying the cut-up technique, invented in the 1960s by Bryon Gysin, to text, William Burroughs achieved results of new narratives (whose order/sequence had not been put together willingly) which would often yield surprising results, even giving account of future events that were later verified. \nThe dérive (English: drift) developed in the 1950s by the Situationists is a technique to explore and navigate urban space without preformalized trajectories.\nMisreadings of common everyday objects, as used in Surrealism and Dada, some of no symbolic content, some of highly symbolic content produce results similar to the ones described here, but are always authored.\n\n- Cut-up technique\n\n- Dérive\n\n- Involuntary memory\n\n- Serendipity\n"}
{"id": "52836543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52836543", "title": "Jacques Martin (pacifist)", "text": "Jacques Martin (pacifist)\n\nJacques Martin (1906–2001) was a French pacifist, one of the first conscientious objectors in France, and a Protestant pastor. His commitment to French Resistance and to the protection of persecuted Jews earned him the recognition of Yad Vashem as a \"Righteous Among the Nations.\" He died in Die on 23 July 2001.\n\nJacques Martin was born on 24 June 1906 in Sainte-Colombe, Rhône where his father was teaching. His grandfather was a methodist minister. From 1923 to 1927, he studied at the Protestant Faculty of Theology in Paris. There he became friends with André Trocmé, who was a few years older than him. He also met another student, Henri Roser, whose militant pacifist and internationalist ideas shook French protestant society of that time. Jacques Martin then became a pacifist himself, and wished to contribute personally to international reconciliation, starting with France and Germany. \nHe crisscrossed Germany walking through the 1925 summer. As a member of the French branch of the World Student Christian Federation (WSCF, which is casually referred to as the “Fédé”), he took part in the 1926 German gathering of the WSCF. The same year he took charge of the editing of “Cahiers de la Réconciliation » (at the time a simple information bulletin which would be taken over and developed by Henri Roser from November 1927 on).\nIn 1927, he took part in an \"international reconciliation youth camp\" in Vaumarcus, Switzerland, studied one semester in Berlin in 1929, where he got in touch with German pacifist Friedrich Siegmund-Schultze. In 1930, he welcomed Gandhi in Paris. From 1930 to 1932 he was the secretary of the WSCF.\n\nIn spite of his pacifist convictions, Jacques Martin performed military service in 1927-1928 - out of care for his father who had just been shaken by the loss of two sons. However, in December 1930, he returned his military papers, specifying that, as a Christian, he could not bear arms. In 1932, he refused to take part in a training session of the military reserve force and he was consequently arrested, tried and condemned to 12 months in prison on 11 October 1932.\nOn 23 janvier 1934, Jacques Martin married Jacqueline Élié in Alès.\nIn the summer of 1934, the young couple was expecting its first child when a new call-in letter arrived for a new follow-up military training, which he again refused to attend. He is arrested in the midst of the “Fédé”’s summer camp, and condemned to another 18 months in prison in February 1935. He was released in January 1936 and again briefly imprisoned in 1937, 1938 and 1939. His only companions on this harsh road of conscience objection were at this stage a protestant theology student, Philippe Vernier and a protestant primary school teacher Camille Rombault. His failing health ensured his definitive exemption from military service before the start of WWII.\n\nJacques Martin turned each of his trials into a platform to advertise for conscience objection. His defence counsel was solicitor and socialist MP André Philip, who called upon leading intellectuals like Jean Guéhenno or Marc Sangnier and upon representatives of the French Human Rights League. As early as 1928, Martin had temporarily given up on his career in church ministry because of the staunch opposition of institutional protestantism towards his pacifist and anti-militaristic positions. In 1938, still unable to become a pastor, he accepted a position of administrative and human resources director in a silk stockings manufacturing plant in Ganges, Hérault.\n\nIn the wake of the first Vichy anti-Jewish legislation by Marshall Pétain’s government on 3 October 1940, Jacques Martin decided jointly with Ganges’ pastor Élie Gounelle to call for a regional meeting of all protestant pastors in the area, in order to pray and reflect on the new situation, including the apparent support apparently extended to the Vichy government by the church authorities – including, at that early stage, by the president of the Protestant Federation of France, pastor Marc Boegner. According to Jacques Martin’s own account, the day was “dedicated to the problem of anti-Semitism or rather to anti-Semitism and the Bible”. A second such meeting, in November 1942, would be organised to respond to the new situation created by the roundups of 26 August 1942 in the southern zone of France. In both of these meetings, Jacques Martin shared a very well-informed and accurate documentation which allowed pastors to prepare themselves for resistance to the anti-Semitic policy of the Vichy regime. \nAt the same time, the Martins had joined the CIMADE in close cooperation with Madeleine Barot. They intervened in several ways: supplying packages with food or warm clothes for the Gurs internment camp internees, sheltering fleeing Jews and routing them towards safe caches or appropriate underground escape routes, forging identity cards and ration tickets for the hidden Jews. They also hid Jacques’ brother-in-law, pastor André Trocmé when he had to go underground in their family house in Drôme. On 22 June 1944, Jacques Martin was reported to the police by his direct neighbour. He was arrested by the Milice and detained in Montpellier’s prison. Strangely, the local Resistance managed to negotiate his release in exchange for a flock of 1’000 sheep. He was freed three days before the liberation of his area. \nDuring the war years he became friends with historian Jules Isaac who had sought refuge in Ganges.\n\nAfter the war, Jacques Martin was back in touch with the « Social Christians », a mainly protestant movement seeking to join together evangelism and care for the poorer classes of society; after meeting with Élie Gounelle at “Musée Social “ (a Parisian think tank), he prepared the relaunching of the movement and of its magazine, the “Revue du Christianisme Social”. He also organised the 25th Christian Social Congress in Paris.\n\nIn 1948, he participated in the creation of the French branch of the International Council of Christians and Jews, called les Amitiés judéo-chrétiennes (A.J.C. - Jewish Christian Friendships) whose first president was catholic theologian Henri-Irénée Marrou, while Jacques Martin was both the first vice-president and the AJC bulletin’s editor.\nWhile continuing with its commitments with the CIMADE, A.J.C., and Social Christians, Jacques Martin still didn’t apply to become a pastor although the institutional opposition had then faded away. (Henri Roser was for instance now in charge of a parish.) He preferred to experience the position of a \"committed layman\".\n\nFrom 1947 to 1950, he ran a bookshop in Le Chambon-sur-Lignon where he also taught Latin at the Collège Cévenol, then from 1950 to 1966 he ran another bookshop in Lyon.\n\nOn 29 March 1966, he welcomed Martin Luther King on his visit in Lyon.\nFinally he felt the need to \"bind the sheaf\" and was ordained on 9 January 1966 by the French Reformed Church (after a last hesitation from the institution, as the candidate is already 60!) and took a position with the Geneva state church. He is put in charge of the creation of a new parish in a newly built area of the greater Geneva. This parish is now known as the Centre Communautaire Protestant du Lignon.\nHaving retired in 1973, he still performed pastoral tasks in Mens from 1973 to 1977, and finally took full retirement in the area of Die, still acting as a substitute pastor in case of vacancies).\n\nHe died in Die on 23 July 2001. His wife had died 5 years earlier on 30 September 1996. They had had six children: André (1934-1934), Violaine (born 1937), Daniel (born 1937), Amy-Christiane (1939-1945), Jean-Marc (born 1941) et Ariane (born 1950).\n\nAfter WWII, he was awarded the Croix de guerre in tribute to his fight \"to help Compulsory Work Service dodgers, les réfractaires, les maquisards and all victims of enemy repression.\"!\nOn 22 June 1998, Yad Vashem awarded the recognition of « Righteous Among the Nations» both to pastor Jacques Martin and to his wife Jacqueline.\n\nProbably unique among pacifists, Jacques Martin was \"one of the very few\" who rejected the \"hopes of a nebulous French-German reconciliation\" stemming from the Munich agreement and who therefore were immediately \"in Resistance\", according to Jacques Martin’s own words in 1938: \"I remain more than ever non-violent. But I do not harbour any confusion between non-violence and non-resistance. Non-violence means placing resistance on another level than the test of military forces. This resistance is necessary… ».\"\nIn a context where justifications of anti-Semitism abound, sometimes even from protestants, Jacques Martin published in August 1939 an article entitled « Pagan … and Christian anti-Semitism” (L’Antisémitisme païen… et chrétien). In its first part, the article gives a detailed list, country by country, of anti-Semitic persecutions in Europe, while the second part deals with the Christians’ attitude and sometimes responsibility. Referring to the traditional Christian accusation of Jewish deicide, he asks : « Who does not reject Christ ? Does Christianity not bear the same responsibility than the Jews for the crucifixion of its Master ? Is our own so-called Christian civilisation not bearing more witness of a deeper and more serious rejection and blasphemy than the shouts of a versatile crowd or the calculations of a sanhedrin lost in its clericalism and its pride? ».\n\nWith their two pastoral meeting held in Ganges, Jacques Martin and Elie Gounelle prepared their colleagues to exert solidarity towards the persecuted Jews. « We had gathered all the pastors of this area of the Cevennes to study this question. These were necessary preliminaries. Caring for the Jews didn’t happen spontaneously, not even from the camisards’ memory ! A long preparation phase, a reflection were needed first, often in opposition with certain protestant theological concepts, where Judaism was regarded as a mere preamble to Christianity, whereas there was a real spiritual problem, alongside a humanitarian situation from 1942 onwards ». For these meetings, Jacques Martin had gathered very significant documentation, first on the events on the ground which he had ample information about through the Cimade network and through other pastors operating on the ground like Henri Manen, then on the Vichy anti-Semitic laws through articles found in the Swiss protestant Press and in internal French protestant churches texts, like the .\n\nWith a few of his fellow protestant theology students, Jacques Martin was a pionnier of pacifism in France ; in 1923, he was the first editor of the review of \"Mouvement international de la réconciliation\" (MIR), the French branch of the International Fellowship of Reconciliation. \nAt his two trials, Jacques Martin was defended by sollicitor André Philip, who also defended Camille Rombault and Philippe Vernier. All these trials for draft dodging made big headlines in 1932 and 1933. André Philip used them as platforms for conscientious objectors, developing his arguments further at each trial. He called upon pastors such as Marc Boegner, Henri Nick, André Trocmé and Charles Westphal and leading intellectuals such as Marc Sangnier, Jean Guehenno and Julien Benda. These trials were a wake-up call for French society and foremost for the French protestants who not only became more visible on the national scene at this occasion but whose internal opinion was also shifted at the same time. In 1948, the French Reformed Church officially adopted the position that conscientious objection was legitimate and requested the State to grant a legal status to conscientious objectors; the French Catholic Church will wait until 1965 to take the same position.\n"}
{"id": "54883101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54883101", "title": "Jason Kessler", "text": "Jason Kessler\n\nJason Eric Kessler (born September 22, 1983) is an American white supremacist, neo-Nazi, and far-right political activist.\n\nPart of the alt-right, he is known for being the main organizer of the white nationalist Unite the Right rally held in Charlottesville, Virginia during August 11–12, 2017.\n\nJason Kessler graduated from the University of Virginia with a bachelor of arts in psychology in 2009. Prior to his involvement in political extremism, Kessler has written that he was employed in various working class jobs as a dishwasher, gym technician, truck driver and handyman.\n\nIn late 2015, Kessler began his original blog JasonKessler.net. The site was used to publish and take credit for the work of another Jason Kessler, which included a noir crime novel, \"Badland Blues,\" as well as a work of poetry, \"Midnight Road\".\n\nIn November 2016, he revealed lewd and offensive tweets made by Charlottesville vice-mayor and councilman Wes Bellamy, who is also a teacher at Charlottesville's Albemarle High School. Bellamy first drew criticism from Kessler when he called a press conference to call for the removal of the Robert E. Lee statue in Charlottesville in March 2016. In December, Kessler began circulating a petition demanding that Bellamy resign or be removed from office. During the ensuing investigations, Bellamy voluntarily resigned from his teaching position at Albemarle High School in December 2016.\n\nIn January 2017, while attempting to gain signatures for his petition Kessler was arrested for misdemeanor assault after punching a man in the face. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 50 hours of community service.\n\nIn April 2017, Kessler was contracted to write two pieces for the \"Daily Caller\". He wrote another piece in May about the first protests in Charlottesville over the statue of Lee. Kessler has also written several posts for the anti-immigrant white nationalist site VDare. One of Kessler's posts claimed that the government was waging genocide against white people by policies that cause low Caucasian birth rates.\n\nAfter \"ProPublica\" contacted \"the Daily Caller\" pointing out Kessler's ties to white supremacist groups, the outlet severed its ties with Kessler, and its Executive Editor Paul Conner defended his editorial judgment.\n\nKessler was sworn in as a member of the far right organization the Proud Boys. Proud Boys founder Gavin McInnes said that he kicked Kessler out of the group once his views on race became known.\n\nKessler was one of the organizers of the Unite the Right rally on August 12, 2017. The rally was a protest of the removal of the statue of Robert E. Lee, a cause Kessler had taken up a year earlier when he began his crusade against Bellamy. Kessler was also involved in a smaller protest of the removal of the statue on May 14, 2017 which ended in a torch-lit march. At this event, he was arrested for failure to obey an officer's commands. On July 11, Kessler appeared at town hall to promote his rally, but also distance himself from another rally that was held by the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nOn July 25, Kessler and most speakers scheduled to attend the rally were described by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) as alt-right leaders. The ADL's director said that Kessler was listed because of both his statements and his activities. Kessler responded by calling the ADL hypocritical for \"attacking uppity whites when they support the ethno-state of Israel\" and saying he was \"happy to be considered the enemy of the ADL\".\n\nOn August 7, the city manager attempted to change the location of the rally, away from Emancipation Park towards McIntire Park. The city manager confirmed that Kessler had a First Amendment right to protest but stressed the city's need to protect public safety. On August 10, the Rutherford Institute and the Virginia state branch of the ACLU supported Kessler in an injunction lawsuit, later known as \"Kessler v City of Charlottesville\", in the United States District Court. They pointed out that \"Two other groups that oppose Kessler's message, which have called on thousands of protesters to attend, have been granted permits by the city for downtown parks close to Emancipation Park on August 12.\" Arguments were heard in Judge Glen Conrad's courtroom on the afternoon of August 11. The court enjoined the city from revoking Kessler's permit to conduct a demonstration at Emancipation Park on August 12, and the rally went ahead.\n\nThe rally on August 12 turned violent and resulted in the death of Heather Heyer, when one of the rally attendees drove at high speed into a crowd of counter-protestors several blocks from the rally. On the day following the rally Kessler attempted to hold a news conference in front of Charlottesville City Hall which was quickly overtaken by protesters. However, before ending the short news conference Kessler stated \"I disavow any political violence and what happened yesterday was tragic.\" He also posted videos online in which he blames the city for the violence and death.\n\nOn August 18, 2017, Kessler contradicted his previous statement by tweeting \"Heather Heyer was a fat, disgusting Communist. Communists have killed 94 million. Looks like it was payback time.\" The next morning Kessler repudiated the tweet and blamed Ambien, Xanax, and alcohol for the tweet. He received criticism for the tweet from other white nationalists including Richard B. Spencer and Tim Gionet. Kessler subsequently deleted his Twitter account. Hacker and internet troll Andrew Aurenheimer, a.k.a. Weev, later claimed that he hacked Kessler's Twitter account.\n\nOn September 6, 2018, a jury in Charlottesville ordered Jeffrey Winder to pay a fine of $1 and no jail times for the misdemeanor assault charge against Kessler that took place on August 13, 2017. Winder had appealed his original February, 2018 guilty finding, which included a 30-day jail sentence.\n\nIn November 2017, Kessler applied for a permit to hold a rally in Charlottesville in August 2018, on the anniversary of the first march. In December 2017, the city of Charlottesville denied the permit, writing that Kessler's application \"likely underestimates the number of participants\" and that \"no reasonable allocation of city funds or resources\" could guarantee a violence-free event. Kessler sued the city, and in June 2018, Kessler sought a temporary injunction from the court to permit a rally in Emancipation Park on the anniversary. On June 24, 2018, during a court hearing, Kessler unexpectedly dropped plans to hold a rally in Charlottesville, and posted plans on Twitter for a rally in Washington, D.C. On August 3, 2018, after withdrawing his request for an injunction, Kessler voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit against the City of Charlottesville.\n\nKessler later applied for and obtained a permit to hold a \"Unite the Right 2\" anniversary rally in Lafayette Park in Washington, D.C., across from the White House. In addition to Kessler, politician and former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke was set to address the rally participants.\n\nHowever, other far-right individuals and groups who participated in the first Unite the Right rally, including Richard B. Spencer, the League of the South, Christopher Cantwell, Andrew Anglin, and militia groups — indicated that they would not attend the anniversary rally, having distanced themselves from Kessler, who holds \"pariah status among his fellow racists.\"\n\nIn late August, live stream video surfaced of Kessler in which he reveals that due to numerous lawsuits filed against him, he has been forced to move in with his parents. Kessler's father can be heard in the video berating him and demanding that he stop recording white supremacist content in his father's room.\n\n"}
{"id": "14584372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14584372", "title": "Kevala Jnana", "text": "Kevala Jnana\n\nKevala jñāna means omniscience in Jainism and is roughly translated as absolute knowledge or supreme knowledge.\n\nKevala jnana is believed to be an intrinsic quality of all souls. This quality is masked by karmic particles that surround the soul. Every soul has the potential to obtain omniscience by shedding off these karmic particles. Jain scriptures speak of twelve stages through which the soul achieves this goal. A soul who has attained kevala jnana is called a \"kevalin\" (). According to the Jains, only kevalins can comprehend objects in all aspects and manifestations; others are only capable of partial knowledge.\n\nThe views of two sects of Jainism, Digambara and Śvētāmbara Jains differ on the subject of \"kevalins\". According to Digambaras, a kevalin does not experience hunger or thirst, whereas according to Svetambaras, a \"kevalin\" has normal human needs and he travels and preaches too. Digambara Jains believe that they do not act in the normal sense of the word, that they sit motionless in padmasana, and that their bodies emit \"Divyadhvani,\" a sacred sound which is interpreted by their followers as the fundamental truth. According to both traditions, the last \"kevalin\" was a disciple of one of the eleven chief disciples of the last \"tirthankara\", Mahāvīra; his name is recorded as Jambuswami. It is also believed that no one after Jambuswami will have the ability to obtain kevala jnana.\n\nThe claim of existence of omniscience by Jains, who deny the existence of a creator god, is a unique phenomenon. The Sutrakritanga text of the Svetambara school, elaborates the concept as all-knowing and provides details of his other qualities. Another text, the Kalpa Sūtra, gives details of Mahavira's omniscience\nImmediately after the death of Mahavira, his disciple Indrabhuti Gautama became a \"kevalin\". As per the tradition, the teachings of the tirthankara were memorized and preserved over many centuries.\n\nIn the second \"Upanga Agama\", the \"Rājapraśnīya\", there is a dialogue between Kesi, a disciple of Pārśva, and Payasi, a materialist king. In this dialogue, Kesi proves the existence of jiva and its ability to obtain kevala jñana to the king.\n\nThe Jains have a long debate with Hindus and Buddhists regarding omniscience. Bhikkhu Dharmakirti criticized the Jain notion of omniscience in his \"Pramanavartika\". The Hindu philosopher Kumarila argued that only Veda had the authority to define human moral values since they were \"beginningless, authorless and of self-sufficient validity\". In response, the Jain monk Haribhadra (c. 8th century CE) wrote that humans already had knowledge of everything knowable. It only had to be illuminated or uncovered. Omniscience was, according to Haribhadra, inherent to living beings.\n\nSamantabhadra was the first philosopher-monk in the history of Indian philosophy who tried to use inference as a method to establish the existence of omniscience In his famous work, \"Aptamimamsa\", Samantabhadra asserts:\n\nAkalanka (c. 720 760 CE) put forward the concept of \"suniscita-asambhavad-badhaka-pramana\" as a reason for the existence of omniscience. This concept is a well-known fact which is \"we have no valid methods of knowing to deny the existence of omniscience\". Hemacandra (c. 1088 1173) combined Samantabhadra and Akalanka's ideas of \"sarvajña\" in his \"Pramanamimasa\" to establish the existence of omniscience.\n\nIn Jain epistemology, there are two kinds of valid methods of knowledge: \"pratyakṣa\" or \"direct knowledge\" and \"parokṣa\" or \"indirect knowledge\". Kevala-jñana is considered \"pratyaksa\". Five ways of obtaining knowledge are defined: \"matijñana\" acquired through sensory perception; \"srutajñana\" acquired through understanding of verbal and written sentences; \"avadhijñana\", \"manhaparyaya jñana\" and kevala jñana.\n\nJains contrast all attempts to proclaim absolute truth with \"Anekantavada\", which can be explained through the parable of the \"blind men and an elephant\". In this story, each blind man felt a different part of an elephant (trunk, leg, ear, etc.). All the men claimed to understand and explain the true appearance of the elephant, but could only partly succeed, due to their limited perspectives. This principle is more formally stated by observing that objects are infinite in their qualities and modes of existence, so they cannot be completely grasped in all aspects and manifestations by finite human perception. According to the Jains, only the \"Kevalis\"—omniscient beings—can comprehend objects in all aspects and manifestations; others are only capable of partial knowledge. Consequently, no single, specific, human view can claim to represent absolute truth.\n\nAccording to Jain texts, there are fourteen stages (\"gunasthana\") of spiritual development. The soul can gradually frees itself, firstly from the worst, then from the less bad and finally from all kinds of karma, and manifests the innate qualities of knowledge, belief and conduct in a more and more perfect form. The first four \"gunasthana\" are related to belief or rationality in perception. As and when the soul acquires rationality in perception it moves on to 4th \"gunasthana\". Stages 5 to 14 relate to conduct. The purity in conduct determines the gunasthana from 5th stage onwards. Those who have taken the \"anuvratas\" {minor vows} may reach up to the 5th Gunasthana. The 6th to 14th Gunasthanas can only be attained by those who have taken the \"Mahavratas\" (major vows) of Jain ascetic. Following are the stages of spiritual development:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48571940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48571940", "title": "Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror", "text": "Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror\n\nThe Swedish psychologist and university professor Heinz Leymann developed the LIPT questionnaire. LIPT stands for \"Leymann Inventory of Psychological Terror\".\n\nThe LIPT questionnaire lists 45 mobbing actions at the workplace. A person is regarded as being bullied if one or more of the 45 actions happen at least once per week over a period of at least one year. Alternative mobbing definitions require a shorter period of at least 3–6 months and the frequent occurrence of more than one action.\n\nThe effects of the actions on the mobbing victim are divided into five categories:\n\n\nThe 45 mobbing actions are derived by Leymann from 300 individual interviews in the years of 1981 to 1984. After 1984 the interviews did not find further actions and ended.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28345268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28345268", "title": "Listing number", "text": "Listing number\n\nIn mathematics, a Listing number of a topological space is one of several topological invariants introduced by the 19th-century mathematician Johann Benedict Listing and later given this name by Charles Sanders Peirce. Unlike the later invariants given by Bernhard Riemann, the Listing numbers do not form a complete set of invariants: two different two-dimensional manifolds may have the same Listing numbers as each other.\n\nThere are four Listing numbers associated with a space. The smallest Listing number counts the number of connected components of a space, and is thus equivalent to the zeroth Betti number.\n"}
{"id": "24447100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24447100", "title": "Mars orbit rendezvous", "text": "Mars orbit rendezvous\n\nMars orbit rendezvous (MOR) is a space travel concept where two spacecraft meet up and/or dock in Mars orbit. For example, one vehicle takes off from Mars, such as a Martian ascent stage, and does a rendezvous in Mars orbit with another spacecraft. Applied to a Mars sample return or manned mission to Mars, it allows much less weight to be sent to the surface and back into orbit, because the fuel needed to travel back to Earth is not landed on the planet. It has also been proposed for unmanned Mars sample return plans.\n\nIn one mission proposal, MOR was planned for a Mars Descent-Ascent Vehicle (DAV) and Mars Transit Habitat, where a crew would transfer to the DAV after traveling to Mars on the habitat. This allowed the Mars DAV to be launched separately from the transit habitat, and without any crew.\n\nMOR is analogous to Lunar orbit rendezvous (LOR) used on the United States NASA Apollo program missions to Earth's moon during 1969 to 1972, as opposed to Earth orbit rendezvous (EOR) or Direct ascent.\n\nA related concept is a Mars flyby rendezvous, where spacecraft do not enter orbit but rendezvous near the planet. Mars flyby rendezvous was evaluated at NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center in the 1960s. At that time NASA developed designs for a combination of a Mars lander, short-stay surface habitat, and ascent vehicle called a Mars Excursion Module (MEM); the ascent stage performed the rendezvous. Compared to MOR, a flyby rendezvous means one spacecraft does not have to orbit Mars. \nMars orbit rendezvous was utilized in Austere Human Missions to Mars, a tweak of DRA 5.0.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54855068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54855068", "title": "Mary V. Riley", "text": "Mary V. Riley\n\nMary V. Riley (December 24, 1908 – October 5, 1987) was an Apache tribal council member who was instrumental in the economic development of the White Mountain Apache Tribe. She was the first woman to be elected to serve on the tribal council and worked toward bringing timber and tourism industries to the reservation to ensure their economic stability. She was inducted into the Arizona Women's Hall of Fame posthumously in 1988.\n\nMary Velasquez was born on December 24, 1908 at Fort Apache, on the White Mountain Apache Reservation to Nalatzalay (Belle née Ivins) and Jesus Velasquez. Her father was born in Fort Davis, Texas to Mexican nationals from Coahuila, Martín and Juana (née Rivers) Velasquez, and came to Fort Apache traveling with soldiers from Ft. Davis, as a child with his mother. He worked for a time as a translator and scout and then managed a ranch where he provided supplies to the soldiers at the fort. Her mother was a full-blood Apache and the daughter of Nadischaay. Velasquez and her siblings grew up on their father's farm, helping with farm chores. She attended three years of school, but was forced to leave in the 1918 flu pandemic to help with sick relatives.\n\nThough she was unable to return to school, Velasquez became fluent in three languages: Apache, Spanish, and English. She read newspapers widely. Velasquez first married Kurt Johnson and then around 1936, married Peter Kessay Riley, with whom she raised her five children, all of whom were also trilingual, and to whom she stressed the importance of gaining an education. She farmed as her father had, raising corn, potatoes, pumpkin and squash, as well as turkey, goat and sheep.\n\nIn 1958, Riley became the first woman elected to serve on the White Mountain Apache Tribal Council. She served on the health, education and welfare committee of the tribe and at various times, chaired the committee. She made numerous trips to both the state capital, Phoenix and federal capital in Washington, D. C., lobbying on behalf of the tribe. In an effort to improve situations for tribal members, she evaluated many programs for both economic and socio-cultural gains, looking at federal programs such as Job Corps the Boy Scouts of America, and Bureau of Indian Affairs loan programs for economic development. Riley represented three districts of the reservation and was instrumental in projects, such as the Alchesay-Williams Creek National Fish Hatchery Complex, the Fort Apache Timber Company (FATCO), and the Sunrise Park Ski Resort and Hotel, among others, to expand the tribal enterprises and provide economic stability for the tribe.\n\nGround was broken for FATCO in 1962 and by 1963 had replaced the hiring of outside operators to manage the timber reserves of the tribe. By managing their own lumber harvests and operating three saw mills, the tribe was able to provide both jobs for tribal members and goods to sell to a wider clientele. Around the same time, the Alchesay-Williams Hatchery was developed to stock the local lakes which had been created on the reservation and protect species listed as threatened or endangered. Employment opportunities for tribal members were increased through jobs at the hatchery, related jobs in the tourism sector, and additional revenues were garnered through the sale of fishing licenses. One of the largest projects was to convert 1.6 million acres of their lands into the Sunrise Park Resort. Constructing 20 recreational lakes, campsites, fishing and hunting venues, a ski resort, and hotels, the Tribal Council utilized their lands to generate a year-round tourist industry.\n\nRiley was interviewed as part of an Oral History Project sponsored by the Arizona State Department of Libraries and Archives in 1977. After twenty years on the council, Riley retired in 1978. She was honored by the state in 1984 during the Statehood Day Celebrations for her leadership and development. Profits from FATCO were used to build the Mary V. Riley Building, which houses the tribal educational department.\n\nRiley died on October 5, 1987 at White Mountain River Indian Hospital in Whiteriver, Arizona. Posthumously, she was inducted into the Arizona Women's Hall of Fame, in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "753215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753215", "title": "OmniGraffle", "text": "OmniGraffle\n\nOmniGraffle is a diagramming and digital illustration application for macOS and iOS created by The Omni Group.\n\nOmniGraffle is used to create graphics and visuals. The application features several design tools, along with a drag-and-drop WYSIWYG interface and a notes function that to annotate and create specification documentation for prototypes and mockups.\n\nWhile OmniGraffle can produce graphics and visuals, it is often used as a tool to create content maps, screen flows, and wire frames. Visuals are often referred to as “graffles.\"\n\nAlthough OmniGraffle is an industry tool, it lacks interactivity capabilities and is not easily used for team collaboration due to its limitations as a desktop and tablet application. \n\nOmniGraffle design tools include canvases, templates, stencils, vector drawing, and grid guides. Other features include auto layout and document management.\n\nCanvases are spaces where users can create shapes. Attributes to creating a canvas include canvas name, sizing options, grid and dimension selections, and diagram layout. Users may create and also share canvases and layers, with automatic updates available. This gives users the option to create layers once, toggle layers to appear on desired canvases, and update automatically if changes occur.\n\nTemplates are OmniGraffle application resources. Template documents can be manipulated by users for their purposes. Some sample templates are preloaded and available for users. Users may also create, edit, and save templates for creating consistent graffles.\n\nStencils are OmniGraffle application resources. Stencils are clip art files that serve as elements, such as icons or buttons, for OmniGraffle documents. A wide variety of sample stencils are pre-loaded and available for immediate use. Users can also create, share, download, and preview stencils online as well through OmniGraffle's Stenciltown or other stencil libraries, such as Graffletopia.\n\nBecause OmniGraffle visuals are vector-based, visuals are composed of mathematical representations of pixels. Rather than creating free-hand drawn work, users utilize vectors to create these visuals. To minimize user-end visual creation, vector drawing also allows for all graphic images to be recreated.\n\nSmart Guides is a tool that can be turned on or off. While moving objects around the canvas, Smart Guides provides users with highlighted grid lines to easily align objects on the canvas. It also provides additional ease for users with a dynamic snap-to-grid functionality for accurately snapping objects into alignment around the canvas.\n\nOther design features in the latest versions of OmniGraffle include artistic fill and stroke styles, text and shape scalability, path-following text, shape combinations, diagram styling, auto layout features for treemapping, and documentation management.\n\nOmniGraffle supports filesharing and Visio support in its Pro distribution. All users can export their graffles to JPEG, BMP, EPS, GIF, HTML Images, SVG, Template, Stencil, PNG, OO3, TIFF, and PDF . Additionally, OmniGraffle Pro users can import dot/graphviz, Visio, SVG, PDF, Photoshop with layers, and XCode.\n\nIn many respects, OmniGraffle is similar to Microsoft Visio. The Pro version of OmniGraffle can both import and export Visio files created using Visio's XML export function. However, Omnigraffle doesn't provide CAD integration like Visio, since it lacks some features such as DWG or DXF (AutoDesk file formats), import/export functions, among others. Also it is important to notice that layers cannot be shared among some versions of Visio and OmniGraffle.\n\nDiagrams, content or mind maps, flowcharts and wire frames can also be drawn with other applications\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46441321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46441321", "title": "Oscar Tuazon", "text": "Oscar Tuazon\n\nOscar Tuazon (née Hansen) is an American artist based in Los Angeles who works in sculpture, architecture, and mixed media.\n\nOscar Tuazon was born Oscar Hansen on July 9, 1975, in a geodesic dome his parents built in the woods at Indianola, Kitsap County, Washington. He attended Deep Springs College, Cooper Union, and the Whitney Independent Study Program. In 2001 he served as a founding board member at the Center for Urban Pedagogy in New York with his former Deep Springs classmate Damon Rich.\n\nOscar met and married Lan Tuazon in New York in the mid-90s and changed his name from Oscar Hansen to Oscar Tuazon. The couple would later be divorced, but he kept the last name. His brother and frequent collaborator, Eli Hansen, is also an artist.\n\nProfessionally, he began his career working in the Studio Acconci of architect/artist Vito Acconci. After moving to Paris in 2007, he began exhibiting widely in Europe. He has since then exhibited at the Venice Biennale, the Whitney Biennial, and many group and solo shows throughout the world, and is in major art collections such as Saatchi's.\n\nA critic in the art magazine Frieze wrote in 2013 that \"like his heroes, from Gordon Matta-Clark to wilderness survivalists, Tuazon’s non-conformist approach to artistic practice plays at the juncture of architecture, sculpture and performance.\" A New York Times review described his work as \"haunting ... pit[ting] Mr. Acconci's robust ego against Mr. Tuazon's raw and fragile subjectivity.\" \n\nIn 2013, he moved from France to the Silver Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles with his three children and wife Dorothée Perret, a former editor at Purple Magazine who now helms the art magazine \"Paris, LA.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNominated for the Prix Fondation d'entreprise Ricard in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "36693641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36693641", "title": "Prisoners' Union", "text": "Prisoners' Union\n\nPrisoners' Union () is Russian human rights monitoring non-governmental organization. The organization was founded in 2008. Prisoners' Union foundation meeting was held in Moscow and was attended by 40 former political prisoners.\nPrisoners' Union works to expose human rights violations within the penal system in Russia. Prisoners' Union publishes monitoring materials of situation in Russian prisons and holds press-conferences. Organization calls for an amnesty for all political prisoners in Russia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44545112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44545112", "title": "Psychic damage", "text": "Psychic damage\n\nPsychic damage is a concept used in the field of social psychology to describe the negative effects of stereotypes on individual members of stigmatized groups. The label \"psychic damage\" was first used by U.S. historian Daryl Scott to describe the effects of stereotyping on African-Americans in his 1997 book \"Contempt and Pity: Social Policy and the Image of the Damaged Black Psyche, 1880–1996\", which won the Organization of American Historians' James A. Rawley Prize for the year's best work in race relations.\n\nIn his book \"Whistling Vivaldi: How Stereotypes Affect Us and What We Can Do,\" U.S. social psychologist Claude Steele wrote that the psyches of individual African-Americans gets damaged \"by bad images of the group projected in society -- images of blacks as aggressive, as less intelligent, and so on.\" Repeated exposure to these images, he wrote, is internalized by members of the stigmatized group, which damages their character by causing low self-esteem, low expectations, low motivation and self-doubt, and contributes to societal problems such as high unemployment, poor marriage success, low educational achievement and criminality.\n\nInitially the concept of psychic damage was used to describe the effects of stigmatization on African-Americans, but the concept has also been applied to other stigmatized groups, such as Native Americans, Latino people and women.\n"}
{"id": "146764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146764", "title": "Punishment", "text": "Punishment\n\nA punishment is the imposition of an undesirable or unpleasant outcome upon a group or individual, meted out by an authority—in contexts ranging from child discipline to criminal law—as a response and deterrent to a particular action or behaviour that is deemed undesirable or unacceptable. The reasoning may be to condition a child to avoid self-endangerment, to impose social conformity (in particular, in the contexts of compulsory education or military discipline), to defend norms, to protect against future harms (in particular, those from violent crime), and to maintain the law—and respect for rule of law—under which the social group is governed. Punishment may be self-inflicted as with self-flagellation and mortification of the flesh in the religious setting, but is most often a form of social coercion. \n\nThe unpleasant imposition may include a fine, penalty, or confinement, or be the removal or denial of something pleasant or desirable. The individual may be a person, or even an animal. The authority may be either a group or a single person, and punishment may be carried out formally under a system of law or informally in other kinds of social settings such as within a family. Negative consequences that are not authorized or that are administered without a breach of rules are not considered to be punishment as defined here. The study and practice of the punishment of crimes, particularly as it applies to imprisonment, is called penology, or, often in modern texts, corrections; in this context, the punishment process is euphemistically called \"correctional process\". Research into punishment often includes similar research into prevention.\n\nJustifications for punishment include retribution, deterrence, rehabilitation, and incapacitation. The last could include such measures as isolation, in order to prevent the wrongdoer's having contact with potential victims, or the removal of a hand in order to make theft more difficult. Of the four justifications, only retribution is part of the definition of punishment and none of the other justifications is a guaranteed outcome, aside from obvious exceptions such as an executed man being incapacitated with regard to further crimes.\n\nIf only some of the conditions included in the definition of punishment are present, descriptions other than \"punishment\" may be considered more accurate. Inflicting something negative, or unpleasant, on a person or animal, without authority is considered revenge or spite rather than punishment. In addition, the word \"punishment\" is used as a metaphor, as when a boxer experiences \"\"punishment\" during a fight. In other situations, breaking a rule may be rewarded, and so receiving such a reward naturally does not constitute punishment. Finally the condition of breaking (or breaching) the rules must be satisfied for consequences to be considered punishment.\n\nPunishments differ in their degree of severity, and may include sanctions such as reprimands, deprivations of privileges or liberty, fines, incarcerations, ostracism, the infliction of pain, amputation and the death penalty.\n\"Corporal punishment\" refers to punishments in which physical pain is intended to be inflicted upon the transgressor.\nPunishments may be judged as fair or unfair in terms of their degree of reciprocity and proportionality to the offense.\nPunishment can be an integral part of socialization, and punishing unwanted behaviour is often part of a system of pedagogy or behavioral modification which also includes rewards.\n\nVarious philosophers have presented definitions of punishment. Conditions commonly considered necessary properly to describe an action as punishment are that \n\nIntroduced by B.F. Skinner, punishment has a more restrictive and technical definition. Along with reinforcement it belongs under the operant conditioning category. Operant conditioning refers to learning with either punishment (often confused as negative reinforcement) or a reward that serves as a positive reinforcement of the lesson to be learned. In psychology, punishment is the reduction of a behavior via application of an unpleasant stimulus (\"positive\" punishment\") or removal of a pleasant stimulus (\"\"negative\" punishment\"). Extra chores or spanking are examples of positive punishment, while removing an offending student's recess or play privileges are examples of negative punishment. The definition requires that punishment is only determined after the fact by the reduction in behavior; if the offending behavior of the subject does not decrease, it is not considered punishment. There is some conflation of punishment and aversives, though an aversion that does not decrease behavior is not considered punishment in psychology. Additionally, \"aversive stimulus\" is a label behaviorists generally apply to negative reinforcers (as in avoidance learning), rather than punishers.\n\nPunishment is sometimes called \"retaliatory\" or \"moralistic aggression\"; it has been observed in all species of social animals, leading evolutionary biologists to conclude that it is an evolutionarily stable strategy, selected because it favors cooperative behavior.\n\nOne criticism of the claim of all social animals being evolutionarily hardwired for punishment comes from studies of animals, such as the octopuses near Capri, Italy that suddenly formed communal cultures from having, until then lived solitary lives. During a period of heavy fishing and tourism that encroached on their territory, they started to live in groups, learning from each other, especially hunting techniques. Small, younger octopuses could be near the fully grown octopuses without being eaten by them, even though they, like other Octopus vulgaris, were cannibals until just before the group formation. The authors stress that this behavior change happened too fast to be a genetic characteristic in the octopuses, and that there were certainly no mammals or other \"naturally\" social animals punishing octopuses for cannibalism involved. The authors also note that the octopuses adopted observational learning without any evolutionary history of specialized adaptation for it.\n\nThere are also arguments against the notion of punishment requiring intelligence, based on studies of punishment in very small-brained animals such as insects. There is proof of honey bee workers with mutations that makes them fertile laying eggs only when other honey bees are not observing them, and that the few that are caught in the act are killed. This is corroborated by computer simulations proving that a few simple reactions well within mainstream views of the extremely limited intelligence of insects are sufficient to emulate the \"political\" behavior observed in great apes. The authors argue that this falsifies the claim that punishment evolved as a strategy to deal with individuals capable of knowing what they are doing.\n\nIn the case of more complex brains, the notion of evolution selecting for specific punishment of intentionally chosen breaches of rules and/or wrongdoers capable of intentional choices (for example, punishing humans for murder while not punishing lethal viruses) is subject to criticism from coevolution issues. That punishment of individuals with certain characteristics (including but, in principle, not restricted to mental abilities) selects against those characteristics, making evolution of any mental abilities considered to be the basis for penal responsibility impossible in populations subject to such selective punishment. Certain scientists argue that this disproves the notion of humans having a biological feeling of intentional transgressions deserving to be punished.\n\nPunishments are applied for various purposes, most generally, to encourage and enforce proper behavior as defined by society or family. Criminals are punished judicially, by fines, corporal punishment or custodial sentences such as prison; detainees risk further punishments for breaches of internal rules. Children, pupils and other trainees may be punished by their educators or instructors (mainly parents, guardians, or teachers, tutors and coaches) – see Child discipline.\n\nSlaves, domestic and other servants are subject to punishment by their masters. Employees can still be subject to a contractual form of fine or demotion. Most hierarchical organizations, such as military and police forces, or even churches, still apply quite rigid internal discipline, even with a judicial system of their own (court martial, canonical courts).\n\nPunishment may also be applied on moral, especially religious, grounds, as in penance (which is voluntary) or imposed in a theocracy with a religious police (as in a strict Islamic state like Iran or under the Taliban) or (though not a true theocracy) by Inquisition.\n\nBelief that an individual's ultimate punishment is being sent by God, the highest authority, to an existence in Hell, a place believed to exist in the after-life, typically corresponds to sins committed during their life. Sometimes these distinctions are specific, with damned souls suffering for each sin committed (see for example Plato's myth of Er or Dante's \"The Divine Comedy\"), but sometimes they are general, with condemned sinners relegated to one or more chamber of Hell or to a level of suffering.\n\nIn many religious cultures, including Christianity and Islam, Hell is traditionally depicted as fiery and painful, inflicting guilt and suffering. Despite these common depictions of Hell as a place of fire, some other traditions portray Hell as cold. Buddhist – and particularly Tibetan Buddhist – descriptions of hell feature an equal number of hot and cold hells. Among Christian descriptions Dante's \"Inferno\" portrays the innermost (9th) circle of Hell as a frozen lake of blood and guilt.\nBut cold also played a part in earlier Christian depictions of hell, beginning with the Apocalypse of Paul, originally from the early third century; the \"Vision of Dryhthelm\" by the Venerable Bede from the seventh century; \"St Patrick's Purgatory\", \"The Vision of Tundale\" or \"Visio Tnugdali\", and the \"Vision of the Monk of Enysham\", all from the twelfth century;\nand the \"Vision of Thurkill\" from the early thirteenth century.\n\nA principle often mentioned with respect to the degree of punishment to be meted out is that the punishment should match the crime.\nOne standard for measurement is the degree to which a crime affects others or society. Measurements of the degree of seriousness of a crime have been developed.\nA felony is generally considered to be a crime of \"high seriousness\", while a misdemeanor is not.\n\nThere are many possible reasons that might be given to justify or explain why someone ought to be punished; here follows a broad outline of typical, possibly conflicting, justifications.\n\nOne reason given to justify punishment is that it is a measure to prevent people from committing an offence - deterring previous offenders from re-offending, and preventing those who may be contemplating an offence they have not committed from actually committing it. This punishment is intended to be sufficient that people would choose not to commit the crime rather than experience the punishment. The aim is to deter everyone in the community from committing offences.\n\nSome criminologists state that the number of people convicted for crime does not decrease as a result of more severe punishment and conclude that deterrence is ineffective. Other criminologists object to said conclusion, citing that while most people do not know the exact severity of punishment such as whether the sentence for murder is 40 years or life, most people still know the rough outlines such as the punishments for armed robbery or statutory rape being more severe than the punishments for driving too fast or misparking a car. These criminologists therefore argue that lack of deterring effect of increasing the sentences for already severely punished crimes say nothing about the significance of the existence of punishment as a deterring factor.\n\nSome criminologists argue that increasing the sentences for crimes can cause criminal investigators to give higher priority to said crimes so that a higher percentage of those committing them are convicted for them, causing statistics to give a false appearance of such crimes increasing. These criminologists argue that the use of statistics to gauge the efficiency of crime fighting methods are a danger of creating a reward hack that makes the least efficient criminal justice systems appear to be best at fighting crime, and that the appearance of deterrance being ineffective may be an example of this.\n\nSome punishment includes work to reform and rehabilitate the culprit so that they will not commit the offence again. This is distinguished from deterrence, in that the goal here is to change the offender's attitude to what they have done, and make them come to see that their behavior was wrong.\n\nIncapacitation as a justification of punishment refers to the offender’s ability to commit further offences being removed. Imprisonment separates offenders from the community, removing or reducing their ability to carry out certain crimes. The death penalty does this in a permanent (and irrevocable) way. In some societies, people who stole have been punished by having their hands amputated.\n\nCriminal activities typically give a benefit to the offender and a loss to the victim. Punishment has been justified as a measure of retributive justice, in which the goal is to try to rebalance any unjust advantage gained by ensuring that the offender also suffers a loss. Sometimes viewed as a way of \"getting even\" with a wrongdoer—the suffering of the wrongdoer is seen as a desired goal in itself, even if it has no restorative benefits for the victim. One reason societies have administered punishments is to diminish the perceived need for retaliatory \"street justice\", blood feud, and vigilantism.\n\nFor minor offenses, punishment may take the form of the offender \"righting the wrong\", or making restitution to the victim. Community service or compensation orders are examples of this sort of penalty. In models of restorative justice, victims take an \"active\" role in a process with their offenders who are encouraged to take responsibility for their actions, \"to repair the harm they've done – by apologizing, returning stolen money, or community service.\" The restorative justice approach aims to help the offender want to avoid future offences.\n\nPunishment can be explained by positive prevention theory to use the criminal justice system to teach people what are the social norms for what is correct, and acts as a reinforcement.\n\nPunishment can serve as a means for society to publicly express denunciation of an action as being criminal. Besides educating people regarding what is not acceptable behavior, it serves the dual function of preventing vigilante justice by acknowledging public anger, while concurrently deterring future criminal activity by stigmatizing the offender.\nThis is sometimes called the \"Expressive Theory\" of denunciation.\nThe pillory was a method for carrying out public denunciation.\n\nSome critics of the education and denunciation model cite evolutionary problems with the notion that a feeling for punishment as a social signal system evolved if punishment was not effective. The critics argue that some individuals spending time and energy and taking risks in punishing others, and the possible loss of the punished group members, would have been selected against if punishment served no function other than signals that could evolve to work by less risky means.\n\nA unified theory of punishment brings together multiple penal purposes — such as retribution, deterrence and rehabilitation — in a single, coherent framework. Instead of punishment requiring we choose between them, unified theorists argue that they work together as part of some wider goal such as the protection of rights.\n\nSome people think that punishment as a whole is unhelpful and even harmful to the people that it is used against. Detractors argue that punishment is simply wrong, of the same design as \"two wrongs make a right\". Critics argue that punishment is simply revenge. Professor Deirdre Golash, author of the book, \"The Case against Punishment: Retribution, Crime Prevention, and the Law\", states in her book that,\n\nThere are critics of punishment who argue that punishment aimed at intentional actions forces people to suppress their ability to act on intent. Advocates of this viewpoint argue that such suppression of intention causes the harmful behaviors to remain, making punishment counterproductive. These people suggest that the ability to make intentional choices should instead be treasured as a source of possibilities of betterment, citing that complex cognition would have been an evolutionarily useless waste of energy if it led to justifications of fixed actions and no change as simple inability to understand arguments would have been the most thrifty protection from being misled by them if arguments were for social manipulation, and reject condemnation of people who intentionally did bad things. Punishment can be effective in stopping undesirable employee behaviors such as tardiness, absenteeism or substandard work performance. However, punishment does not necessarily cause an employee to demonstrate a desirable behavior.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31208296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31208296", "title": "Radical egalitarianism", "text": "Radical egalitarianism\n\nRadical egalitarianism is a political theory associated with the ideas of optimistic tendencies, the suggestions that Americans must work in a multiracial society and that citizens must use activism to achieve the ultimate goal of satisfactory conditions for the entire population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1953581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1953581", "title": "Redundancy (engineering)", "text": "Redundancy (engineering)\n\nIn engineering, redundancy is the duplication of critical components or functions of a system with the intention of increasing reliability of the system, usually in the form of a backup or fail-safe, or to improve actual system performance, such as in the case of GNSS receivers, or multi-threaded computer processing.\n\nIn many safety-critical systems, such as fly-by-wire and hydraulic systems in aircraft, some parts of the control system may be triplicated, which is formally termed triple modular redundancy (TMR). An error in one component may then be out-voted by the other two. In a triply redundant system, the system has three sub components, all three of which must fail before the system fails. Since each one rarely fails, and the sub components are expected to fail independently, the probability of all three failing is calculated to be extraordinarily small; often outweighed by other risk factors, such as human error. Redundancy may also be known by the terms \"majority voting systems\" or \"voting logic\".\n\nRedundancy sometimes produces less, instead of greater reliability it creates a more complex system which is prone to various issues, it may lead to human neglect of duty, and may lead to higher production demands which by overstressing the system may make it less safe.\n\nIn computer science, there are four major forms of redundancy, these are:\n\nA modified form of software redundancy, applied to hardware may be:\n\nStructures are usually designed with redundant parts as well, ensuring that if one part fails, the entire structure will not collapse. A structure without redundancy is called fracture-critical, meaning that a single broken component can cause the collapse of the entire structure. Bridges that failed due to lack of redundancy include the Silver Bridge and the Interstate 5 bridge over the Skagit River.\n\nParallel and combined systems demonstrate different level of redundancy. The models are subject of studies in reliability and safety engineering.\n\nThe two functions of redundancy are passive redundancy and active redundancy. Both functions prevent performance decline from exceeding specification limits without human intervention using extra capacity.\n\nPassive redundancy uses excess capacity to reduce the impact of component failures. One common form of passive redundancy is the extra strength of cabling and struts used in bridges. This extra strength allows some structural components to fail without bridge collapse. The extra strength used in the design is called the margin of safety.\n\nEyes and ears provide working examples of passive redundancy. Vision loss in one eye does not cause blindness but depth perception is impaired. Hearing loss in one ear does not cause deafness but directionality is impaired. Performance decline is commonly associated with passive redundancy when a limited number of failures occur.\n\nActive redundancy eliminates performance declines by monitoring the performance of individual devices, and this monitoring is used in voting logic. The voting logic is linked to switching that automatically reconfigures the components. Error detection and correction and the Global Positioning System (GPS) are two examples of active redundancy.\n\nElectrical power distribution provides an example of active redundancy. Several power lines connect each generation facility with customers. Each power line includes monitors that detect overload. Each power line also includes circuit breakers. The combination of power lines provides excess capacity. Circuit breakers disconnect a power line when monitors detect an overload. Power is redistributed across the remaining lines.\n\nCharles Perrow, author of \"Normal Accidents\", has said that sometimes redundancies backfire and produce less, not more reliability. This may happen in three ways: First, redundant safety devices result in a more complex system, more prone to errors and accidents. Second, redundancy may lead to shirking of responsibility among workers. Third, redundancy may lead to increased production pressures, resulting in a system that operates at higher speeds, but less safely.\n\nVoting logic uses performance monitoring to determine how to reconfigure individual components so that operation continues without violating specification limitations of the overall system. Voting logic often involves computers, but systems composed of items other than computers may be reconfigured using voting logic. Circuit breakers are an example of a form of non-computer voting logic.\n\nElectrical power systems use power scheduling to reconfigure active redundancy. Computing systems adjust the production output of each generating facility when other generating facilities are suddenly lost. This prevents blackout conditions during major events such as an earthquake.\n\nThe simplest voting logic in computing systems involves two components: primary and alternate. They both run similar software, but the output from the alternate remains inactive during normal operation. The primary monitors itself and periodically sends an activity message to the alternate as long as everything is OK. All outputs from the primary stop, including the activity message, when the primary detects a fault. The alternate activates its output and takes over from the primary after a brief delay when the activity message ceases. Errors in voting logic can cause both outputs to be active or inactive at the same time, or cause outputs to flutter on and off.\n\nA more reliable form of voting logic involves an odd number of three devices or more. All perform identical functions and the outputs are compared by the voting logic. The voting logic establishes a majority when there is a disagreement, and the majority will act to deactivate the output from other device(s) that disagree. A single fault will not interrupt normal operation. This technique is used with avionics systems, such as those responsible for operation of the Space Shuttle.\n\nEach duplicate component added to the system decreases the probability of system failure according to the formula:-\n\nwhere:\n\nThis formula assumes independence of failure events. That means that the probability of a component B failing given that a component A has already failed is the same as that of B failing when A has not failed. There are situations where this is unreasonable, such as using two power supplies connected to the same socket in such a way that if one power supply failed, the other would too.\n\nIt also assumes that at only one component is needed to keep the system running.\n\n"}
{"id": "18935488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935488", "title": "Reverse engineering", "text": "Reverse engineering\n\nReverse engineering, also called back engineering, is the process by which a man-made object is deconstructed to reveal its designs, architecture, or to extract knowledge from the object; similar to scientific research, the only difference being that scientific research is about a natural phenomenon.\n\nReverse engineering is applicable in the fields of mechanical engineering, electronic engineering, software engineering, chemical engineering, and systems biology.\n\nThere are many reasons for performing reverse engineering in various fields. Reverse engineering has its origins in the analysis of hardware for commercial or military advantage. However, the reverse engineering process in itself is not concerned with creating a copy or changing the artifact in some way; it is only an analysis in order to deduce design features from products with little or no additional knowledge about the procedures involved in their original production. In some cases, the goal of the reverse engineering process can simply be a redocumentation of legacy systems. Even when the product reverse engineered is that of a competitor, the goal may not be to copy them, but to perform competitor analysis. Reverse engineering may also be used to create interoperable products and despite some narrowly tailored United States and European Union legislation, the legality of using specific reverse engineering techniques for this purpose has been hotly contested in courts worldwide for more than two decades.\n\nSoftware reverse engineering can help to improve the understanding of the underlying source code for the maintenance and improvement of the software, relevant information can be extracted in order to make a decision for software development and graphical representations of the code can provide alternate views regarding the source code, which can help to detect and fix a software bug or vulnerability. Frequently, as some software develops, its design information and improvements are often lost over time, but this lost information can usually be recovered with reverse engineering. This process can also help to cut down the time required to understand the source code, reducing the overall cost of the software development. Reverse engineering can also help to detect and eliminate a malicious code written to the software with better code detectors. Reversing a source code can be used to find alternate uses of the source code, such as to detect unauthorized replication of the source code where it wasn't intended to be used, or to reveal how a competitors product was built. This process is commonly used for \"cracking\" software and media to remove their copy protection, or to create a (possibly improved) copy or even a knockoff, which is usually the goal of a competitor or a hacker. Malware developers often use reverse engineering techniques to find vulnerabilities in an operating system (OS), in order build a computer virus that can exploit the system vulnerabilities. Reverse engineering is also being used in cryptanalysis in order to find vulnerabilities in substitution cipher, symmetric-key algorithm or public-key cryptography.\n\n\nAs computer-aided design (CAD) has become more popular, reverse engineering has become a viable method to create a 3D virtual model of an existing physical part for use in 3D CAD, CAM, CAE or other software. The reverse-engineering process involves measuring an object and then reconstructing it as a 3D model. The physical object can be measured using 3D scanning technologies like CMMs, laser scanners, structured light digitizers, or Industrial CT Scanning (computed tomography). The measured data alone, usually represented as a point cloud, lacks topological information and is therefore often processed and modeled into a more usable format such as a triangular-faced mesh, a set of NURBS surfaces, or a CAD model.\n\nHybrid Modelling is commonly used term when NURBS and Parametric modelling are implemented together. Using a combination of geometric and freeform surfaces can provide a powerful method of 3D modelling. Areas of freeform data can be combined with exact geometric surfaces to create a hybrid model. A typical example of this would be the reverse engineering of a cylinder head, which includes freeform cast features, such as water jackets and high tolerance machined areas.\n\nReverse engineering is also used by businesses to bring existing physical geometry into digital product development environments, to make a digital 3D record of their own products, or to assess competitors' products. It is used to analyse, for instance, how a product works, what it does, and what components it consists of, estimate costs, and identify potential patent infringement, etc.\n\nValue engineering is a related activity also used by businesses. It involves de-constructing and analysing products, but the objective is to find opportunities for cost cutting.\n\nIn 1990, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) defined \"reverse engineering\" as \"the process of analyzing a\nsubject system to identify the system's components and their interrelationships and to create representations of the system in another form or at a higher\nlevel of abstraction\", where the \"subject system\" is the end product of software development. Reverse engineering is a process of examination only: the software system under consideration is not modified (which would make it re-engineering or restructuring). Reverse engineering can be performed from any stage of the product cycle, not necessarily from the functional end product.\n\nThere are two components in reverse engineering: redocumentation and design recovery. Redocumentation is the creation of new representation of the computer code so that it is easier to understand. Meanwhile, design recovery is the using of deduction or reasoning from general knowledge or personal experience of the product in order to fully understand the product functionality. It can also be seen as \"going backwards through the development cycle\". In this model, the output of the implementation phase (in source code form) is reverse-engineered back to the analysis phase, in an inversion of the traditional waterfall model. Another term for this technique is program comprehension. Working Conference on Reverse Engineering (WCRE) has been held yearly to explore and expand the techniques of reverse engineering. Computer-aided software engineering (CASE) and automated code generation have contributed greatly in the field of reverse engineering.\n\nSoftware anti-tamper technology like obfuscation is used to deter both reverse engineering and re-engineering of proprietary software and software-powered systems. In practice, two main types of reverse engineering emerge. In the first case, source code is already available for the software, but higher-level aspects of the program, perhaps poorly documented or documented but no longer valid, are discovered. In the second case, there is no source code available for the software, and any efforts towards discovering one possible source code for the software are regarded as reverse engineering. This second usage of the term is the one most people are familiar with. Reverse engineering of software can make use of the clean room design technique to avoid copyright infringement.\n\nOn a related note, black box testing in software engineering has a lot in common with reverse engineering. The tester usually has the API, but their goals are to find bugs and undocumented features by bashing the product from outside.\n\nOther purposes of reverse engineering include security auditing, removal of copy protection (\"cracking\"), circumvention of access restrictions often present in consumer electronics, customization of embedded systems (such as engine management systems), in-house repairs or retrofits, enabling of additional features on low-cost \"crippled\" hardware (such as some graphics card chip-sets), or even mere satisfaction of curiosity.\n\nBinary reverse engineering is performed if source code for a software is unavailable. This process is sometimes termed \"Reverse Code Engineering\", or RCE. As an example, decompilation of binaries for the Java platform can be accomplished using Jad. One famous case of reverse engineering was the first non-IBM implementation of the PC BIOS which launched the historic IBM PC compatible industry that has been the overwhelmingly dominant computer hardware platform for many years. Reverse engineering of software is protected in the U.S. by the fair use exception in copyright law. The Samba software, which allows systems that are not running Microsoft Windows systems to share files with systems that are, is a classic example of software reverse engineering, since the Samba project had to reverse-engineer unpublished information about how Windows file sharing worked, so that non-Windows computers could emulate it. The Wine project does the same thing for the Windows API, and OpenOffice.org is one party doing this for the Microsoft Office file formats. The ReactOS project is even more ambitious in its goals, as it strives to provide binary (ABI and API) compatibility with the current Windows OSes of the NT branch, allowing software and drivers written for Windows to run on a clean-room reverse-engineered Free Software (GPL) counterpart. WindowsSCOPE allows for reverse-engineering the full contents of a Windows system's live memory including a binary-level, graphical reverse engineering of all running processes.\n\nAnother classic, if not well-known example is that in 1987 Bell Laboratories reverse-engineered the Mac OS System 4.1, originally running on the Apple Macintosh SE, so they could run it on RISC machines of their own.\n\nReverse engineering of software can be accomplished by various methods.\nThe three main groups of software reverse engineering are\n\nSoftware classification is the process of identifying similarities between different software binaries (for example, two different versions of the same binary) used to detect code relations between software samples. This task was traditionally done manually for several reasons (such as patch analysis for vulnerability detection and copyright infringement) but nowadays can be done somewhat automatically for large numbers of samples.\n\nThis method is being used mostly for long and thorough reverse engineering tasks (complete analysis of a complex algorithm or big piece of software). In general, statistical classification is considered to be a hard problem and this is also true for software classification, therefore there aren't many solutions/tools that handle this task well.\n\nA number of UML tools refer to the process of importing and analysing source code to generate UML diagrams as \"reverse engineering\". See List of UML tools.\n\nAlthough UML is one approach to providing \"reverse engineering\" more recent advances in international standards activities have resulted in the development of the Knowledge Discovery Metamodel (KDM). This standard delivers an ontology for the intermediate (or abstracted) representation of programming language constructs and their interrelationships. An Object Management Group standard (on its way to becoming an ISO standard as well), KDM has started to take hold in industry with the development of tools and analysis environments which can deliver the extraction and analysis of source, binary, and byte code. For source code analysis, KDM's granular standards' architecture enables the extraction of software system flows (data, control, & call maps), architectures, and business layer knowledge (rules, terms, process). The standard enables the use of a common data format (XMI) enabling the correlation of the various layers of system knowledge for either detailed analysis (e.g. root cause, impact) or derived analysis (e.g. business process extraction). Although efforts to represent language constructs can be never-ending given the number of languages, the continuous evolution of software languages and the development of new languages, the standard does allow for the use of extensions to support the broad language set as well as evolution. KDM is compatible with UML, BPMN, RDF and other standards enabling migration into other environments and thus leverage system knowledge for efforts such as software system transformation and enterprise business layer analysis.\n\nProtocols are sets of rules that describe message formats and how messages are exchanged (i.e., the protocol state-machine). Accordingly, the problem of protocol reverse-engineering can be partitioned into two subproblems; message format and state-machine reverse-engineering.\n\nThe message formats have traditionally been reverse-engineered through a tedious manual process, which involved analysis of how protocol implementations process messages, but recent research proposed a number of automatic solutions. Typically, these automatic approaches either group observed messages into clusters using various clustering analyses, or emulate the protocol implementation tracing the message processing.\n\nThere has been less work on reverse-engineering of state-machines of protocols. In general, the protocol state-machines can be learned either through a process of offline learning, which passively observes communication and attempts to build the most general state-machine accepting all observed sequences of messages, and online learning, which allows interactive generation of probing sequences of messages and listening to responses to those probing sequences. In general, offline learning of small state-machines is known to be NP-complete, while online learning can be done in polynomial time. An automatic offline approach has been demonstrated by Comparetti et al. and an online approach by Cho et al.\n\nOther components of typical protocols, like encryption and hash functions, can be reverse-engineered automatically as well. Typically, the automatic approaches trace the execution of protocol implementations and try to detect buffers in memory holding unencrypted packets.\n\nReverse engineering is an invasive and destructive form of analyzing a smart card. The attacker grinds away layer after layer of the smart card and takes pictures with an electron microscope. With this technique, it is possible to reveal the complete hardware and software part of the smart card. The major problem for the attacker is to bring everything into the right order to find out how everything works. The makers of the card try to hide keys and operations by mixing up memory positions, for example, bus scrambling.\nIn some cases, it is even possible to attach a probe to measure voltages while the smart card is still operational. The makers of the card employ sensors to detect and prevent this attack. This attack is not very common because it requires a large investment in effort and special equipment that is generally only available to large chip manufacturers. Furthermore, the payoff from this attack is low since other security techniques are often employed such as shadow accounts. It is uncertain at this time whether attacks against CHIP/PIN cards to replicate encryption data and consequentially crack PINS would provide a cost effective attack on multifactor authentication.\n\nReverse engineering is often used by people in order to copy other nations' technologies, devices, or information that have been obtained by regular troops in the fields or by intelligence operations. It was often used during the Second World War and the Cold War. Well-known examples from WWII and later include:\n\nReverse engineering applies primarily to gaining understanding of a process or artifact, where the manner of its construction, use, or internal processes is not made clear by its creator.\n\nPatented items do not of themselves have to be reverse-engineered to be studied, since the essence of a patent is that the inventor provides detailed public disclosure themselves, and in return receives legal protection of the invention involved. However, an item produced under one or more patents could also include other technology that is not patented and not disclosed. Indeed, one common motivation of reverse engineering is to determine whether a competitor's product contains patent infringements or copyright infringements.\n\nIn the United States even if an artifact or process is protected by trade secrets, reverse-engineering the artifact or process is often lawful as long as it has been legitimately obtained.\n\nReverse engineering of computer software in the US often falls under both contract law as a breach of contract as well as any other relevant laws. This is because most EULAs (end user license agreement) specifically prohibit it, and U.S. courts have ruled that if such terms are present, they override the copyright law which expressly permits it (see \"Bowers v. Baystate Technologies\"). Sec. 103(f) of the DMCA (17 U.S.C. § 1201 (f)) says that a person who is in legal possession of a program, is permitted to reverse-engineer and circumvent its protection if this is necessary in order to achieve \"interoperability\" — a term broadly covering other devices and programs being able to interact with it, make use of it, and to use and transfer data to and from it, in useful ways. A limited exemption exists that allows the knowledge thus gained to be shared and used for interoperability purposes.\n\nEU Directive 2009/24 on the legal protection of computer programs, which superseded an earlier (1991) directive, governs reverse engineering in the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "1188460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188460", "title": "Ripple effect", "text": "Ripple effect\n\nA ripple effect is a situation in which, like ripples expanding across the water when an object is dropped into it, an effect from an initial state can be followed outwards incrementally.\n\nRipple effect is often used colloquially to mean a multiplier (economics).\n\nIn sociology, it can be observed how social interactions can affect situations not directly related to the initial interaction, and in charitable activities where information can be disseminated and passed from community to community to broaden its impact.\n\nThe concept has been applied in computer science within the field of software metrics as a complexity measure.\n\n"}
{"id": "39052370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39052370", "title": "Roman à tiroirs", "text": "Roman à tiroirs\n\nA roman à tiroirs (French for \"novel with/made of drawers\") is a French term for a novel in which the principal or main narrative (or \"frame story\") is interrupted by secondary narratives (involving secondary characters and/or told by other narrators), which may in turn themselves be interrupted by further narratives/narrators. As such, it is a form of the \"story within a story\" literary device in which the fiction is nested in two or more layers and where the resolution of the main narrative is delayed because of the inserted secondary tales/stories. In French, the embedded narratives are referred to as \"récits enchâssés\" or \"récits emboités\".\n\nThe expression \"à tiroirs\" as applied to a work of literature dates from 1752, and appears to have been used originally in reference to theater and plays (a \"pièce à tiroirs\" or \"comédie à tiroirs\").\n\n"}
{"id": "3722964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3722964", "title": "Sadistic personality disorder", "text": "Sadistic personality disorder\n\nSadistic personality disorder is a personality disorder involving sadism which appeared in an appendix of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-III-R). The later versions of the DSM (DSM-IV, DSM-IV-TR and DSM-5) do not include it.\n\nThe words \"sadism\" and \"sadist\" are derived from Marquis de Sade.\n\nSadism involves deriving pleasure through themselves or others undergoing discomfort or pain. The opponent-process theory explains the way in which individuals not only display, but also enjoy committing sadistic acts. Individuals possessing sadistic personalities tend to display recurrent aggression and cruel behavior. Sadism can also include the use of emotional cruelty, purposefully manipulating others through the use of fear, and a preoccupation with violence.\n\nTheodore Millon claimed there were four subtypes of sadism, which he termed Enforcing sadism, Explosive sadism, Spineless sadism, and Tyrannical sadism.\n\nSadistic personality disorder has been found to occur frequently in unison with other personality disorders. Studies have also found that sadistic personality disorder is the personality disorder with the highest level of comorbidity to other types of psychopathological disorders. In contrast, sadism has also been found in patients who do not display any or other forms of psychopathic disorders. One personality disorder that is often found to occur alongside sadistic personality disorder is conduct disorder, not an adult disorder but one of childhood and adolescence. Studies have found other types of illnesses, such as alcoholism, to have a high rate of comorbidity with sadistic personality disorder.\n\nResearchers have had some level of difficulty distinguishing sadistic personality disorder from other forms of personality disorders due to its high level of comorbidity with other disorders.\n\nNumerous theorists and clinicians introduced sadistic personality disorder to the DSM in 1987 and it was placed in the DSM-III-R as a way to facilitate further systematic clinical study and research. It was proposed to be included because of adults who possessed sadistic personality traits but were not being labeled, even though their victims were being labeled with a self-defeating personality disorder. Theorists like Theodore Millon wanted to generate further study on SPD, and so proposed it to the DSM-IV Personality Disorder Work Group, who rejected it.\n\nThere is renewed interest in studying sadism as a personality trait. Sadism joins with subclinical psychopathy, narcissism, and Machiavellianism to form the so-called \"dark tetrad\" of personality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27691", "title": "Social security", "text": "Social security\n\nSocial security is \"any government system that provides monetary assistance to people with an inadequate or no income.\" In the United States, this is usually called welfare or a social safety net, especially when talking about Canada and European countries.\n\nSocial security is asserted in Article 22 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states:\n\nEveryone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization, through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality.\n\nIn simple terms, the signatories agree that the society in which a person lives should help them to develop and to make the most of all the advantages (culture, work, social welfare) which are offered to them in the country.\n\nSocial security may also refer to the action programs of an organization intended to promote the welfare of the population through assistance measures guaranteeing access to sufficient resources for food and shelter and to promote health and well-being for the population at large and potentially vulnerable segments such as children, the elderly, the sick and the unemployed. Services providing social security are often called social services.\n\nTerminology in this area is somewhat different in the United States from in the rest of the English-speaking world. The general term for an action program in support of the well being of poor people in the United States is \"welfare program\", and the general term for all such programs is simply \"welfare\". In American society, the term \"welfare\" arguably has negative connotations. In the United States, the term \"Social Security\" refers to the US social insurance program for all retired and disabled people. Elsewhere the term is used in a much broader sense, referring to the economic security society offers when people are faced with certain risks. In its 1952 Social Security (Minimum Standards) Convention (nr. 102), the International Labour Organization (ILO) defined the traditional contingencies covered by social security as including:\n\n\nPeople who cannot reach a guaranteed social minimum for other reasons may be eligible for \"social assistance\" (or welfare, in American English).\n\nModern authors often consider the ILO approach too narrow. In their view, social security is not limited to the provision of cash transfers, but also aims at security of work, health, and social participation; and new social risks (single parenthood, the reconciliation of work and family life) should be included in the list as well.\n\nSocial security may refer to:\n\nA report published by the ILO in 2014 estimated that only 27% of the world's population has access to comprehensive social security.\n\nWhile several of the provisions to which the concept refers have a long history (especially in poor relief), the notion of \"social security\" itself is a fairly recent one. The earliest examples of use date from the 19th century. In a speech to mark the independence of Venezuela, Simón Bolívar (1819) pronounced: \"El sistema de gobierno más perfecto es aquel que produce mayor suma de felicidad posible, mayor suma de \"seguridad social\" y mayor suma de estabilidad política\" (which translates to \"The most perfect system of government is that which produces the greatest amount of happiness, the greatest amount of social security and the greatest amount of political stability\").\n\nIn the Roman Empire, the Emperor Trajan (reigned A.D. 98–117) distributed gifts of money and free grain to the poor in the city of Rome, and returned the gifts of gold sent to him upon his accession by cities in Italy and the provinces of the Empire. Trajan's program brought acclaim from many, including Pliny the Younger.\n\nIn Jewish tradition, charity (represented by tzedakah) is a matter of religious obligation rather than benevolence. Contemporary charity is regarded as a continuation of the Biblical Maaser Ani, or poor-tithe, as well as Biblical practices, such as permitting the poor to glean the corners of a field and harvest during the Shmita (Sabbatical year). Voluntary charity, along with prayer and repentance, is befriended to ameliorate the consequences of bad acts.\n\nThe Song dynasty (c.1000 AD) government supported multiple forms of social assistance programs, including the establishment of retirement homes, public clinics, and pauper's graveyards.\n\nAccording to economist Robert Henry Nelson, \"The medieval Roman Catholic Church operated a far-reaching and comprehensive welfare system for the poor...\"\n\nThe concepts of welfare and pension were put into practice in the early Islamic law of the Caliphate as forms of \"Zakat\" (charity), one of the Five Pillars of Islam, since the time of the Rashidun caliph Umar in the 7th century. The taxes (including \"Zakat\" and \"Jizya\") collected in the treasury of an Islamic government were used to provide income for the needy, including the poor, elderly, orphans, widowed persons, and the disabled. According to the Islamic jurist Al-Ghazali (Algazel, 1058–1111), the government was also expected to store up food supplies in every region in case a disaster or famine occurred. (See Bayt al-mal for further information.)\n\nThere is relatively little statistical data on transfer payments before the High Middle Ages. In the medieval period and until the Industrial Revolution, the function of welfare payments in Europe was principally achieved through private giving or charity. In those early times, there was a much broader group considered to be in poverty as compared to the 21st century.\n\nEarly welfare programs in Europe included the English Poor Law of 1601, which gave parishes the responsibility for providing poverty relief assistance to the poor. This system was substantially modified by the 19th-century Poor Law Amendment Act, which introduced the system of workhouses.\n\nIt was predominantly in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that an organized system of state welfare provision was introduced in many countries. Otto von Bismarck, Chancellor of Germany, introduced one of the first welfare systems for the working classes in 1883. In Great Britain the Liberal government of Henry Campbell-Bannerman and David Lloyd George introduced the National Insurance system in 1911, a system later expanded by Clement Attlee. The United States did not have an organized welfare system until the Great Depression, when emergency relief measures were introduced under President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Even then, Roosevelt's New Deal focused predominantly on a program of providing work and stimulating the economy through public spending on projects, rather than on cash payment.\n\nThis policy is usually applied through various programs designed to provide a population with income at times when they are unable to care for themselves. Income maintenance is based in a combination of five main types of program:\n\nSocial protection refers to a set of benefits available (or not available) from the state, market, civil society and households, or through a combination of these agencies, to the individual/households to reduce multi-dimensional deprivation. This multi-dimensional deprivation could be affecting less active poor persons (such as the elderly or the disabled) and active poor persons (such as the unemployed).\n\nThis broad framework makes this concept more acceptable in developing countries than the concept of social security. Social security is more applicable in the conditions, where large numbers of citizens depend on the formal economy for their livelihood. Through a defined contribution, this social security may be managed.\n\nBut, in the context of widespread informal economy, formal social security arrangements are almost absent for the vast majority of the working population. Besides, in developing countries, the state's capacity to reach the vast majority of the poor people may be limited because of its limited infrastructure and resources. In such a context, multiple agencies that could provide for social protection, including health care, is critical for policy consideration. The framework of social protection is thus holds the state responsible for providing for the poorest populations by regulating non-state agencies.\n\nCollaborative research from the Institute of Development Studies debating Social Protection from a global perspective, suggests that advocates for social protection fall into two broad categories: \"instrumentalists\" and \"activists\". Instrumentalists argue that extreme poverty, inequality, and vulnerability is dysfunctional in the achievement of development targets (such as the MDGs). In this view, social protection is about putting in place risk management mechanisms that will compensate for incomplete or missing insurance (and other) markets, until a time that private insurance can play a more prominent role in that society. Activist arguments view the persistence of extreme poverty, inequality, and vulnerability as symptoms of social injustice and structural inequality and see social protection as a right of citizenship. Targeted welfare is a necessary step between humanitarianism and the ideal of a \"guaranteed minimum income\" where entitlement extends beyond cash or food transfers and is based on citizenship, not philanthropy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10977439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10977439", "title": "Social system", "text": "Social system\n\nIn sociology, a social system is the patterned network of relationships constituting a coherent whole that exist between individuals, groups, and institutions. It is the formal structure of role and status that can form in a small, stable group. An individual may belong to multiple social systems at once; examples of social systems include nuclear family units, communities, cities, nations, college campuses, corporations, and industries. The organization and definition of groups within a social system depend on various shared characteristics such as location, socioeconomic status, race, religion, societal function, or other distinguishable features.\n\nThe study of social systems is integral to the fields of sociology and public policy. Social systems have been studied for as long as sociology has existed.\n\nTalcott Parsons was the first to formulate a systematic theory of social systems, which he did as a part of his AGIL paradigm. He defined a social system as only a segment (or a \"subsystem\") of what he called action theory. Parsons organized social systems in terms of action units, where one action executed by an individual is one unit. He defines a social system as a network of interactions between actors. According to Parsons, social systems rely on a system of language, and culture must exist in a society in order for it to qualify as a social system. Parsons' work laid the foundations for the rest of the study of social systems theory and ignited the debate over what framework social systems should be built around, such as actions, communication, or other relationships.\n\nNiklas Luhmann was a prominent sociologist and social systems theorist who laid the foundations of modern social system thought. He based his definition of a \"social system\" on the mass network of communication between people and defined society itself as an \"autopoietic\" system, meaning a self-referential and self-reliant system that is distinct from its environment. Luhmann considered social systems as belonging to three categories: societal systems, organizations, and interaction systems. Luhmann considered societal systems, such as religion, law, art, education, science, etc., to be closed systems consisting of different fields of interaction. Organizations were defined as a network of decisions which reproduce themselves; his definition is difficult to apply in terms of finding a real-world example. Finally, interaction systems are systems that reproduce themselves on the basis of communication rather than decision making.\n\nJay Wright Forrester founded the field of system dynamics, which deals with the simulation of interactions in dynamic systems. In his work on social systems, he discusses the possibilities of social system dynamics, or modeling social systems using computers with the aim of testing the possible effects of passing new public policies or laws. In his paper he recognized the difficulty of producing a reliable computer model system, but argued that an imperfect model was better than none and simply implementing new policy.\n\nForrester argued that unsuccessful public policies aim to treat the symptoms rather than the causes of social issues and that they also generally focus on rather than efforts. This occurs because there is either an incomplete understanding or a misunderstanding of the causes of an issue on the part of the policymakers, which often leads to ineffective or detrimental policies which aggravate the issues they were implemented to correct or cause other issues to arise. Another problem Forrester notes is that some policies which may work in the long run may aggravate an issue in the short run. A successful policy according to Forrester must target the correct leverage points, in this case the aspect of the social problem which, if modified, will produce a sizeable enough effect to correct the problem.\n\nOne significant problem with studying social systems is the difficulty of forming and testing theories; social systems are not easily manipulated or controlled and large-scale systems cannot be reproduced in a lab setting. However, the rapid increase in the availability of digital data over the last decade gives scientists studying the behaviors of social systems very detailed and much more holistic pictures of how social systems respond to various events and how networked social systems behave. Additionally, the development and popularity of social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter offer new ways to study the evolution of social systems and social networking behaviors with social graphs. Even though the behaviors of these systems may be surprising or not yet well understood, the digital age offers a new frontier for the study of social systems.\n\nNotable past models are the WORLD2 and WORLD3 models: these both aimed to outline the world's distribution of resources. WORLD3 was based on the Club of Rome's \"Limits to Growth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53135263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53135263", "title": "Surveillance capitalism", "text": "Surveillance capitalism\n\nSurveillance capitalism is a novel market form and a specific logic of capitalist accumulation that was first described in a 2014 essay by business theorist and social scientist Shoshana Zuboff. She characterized it as a \"radically disembedded and extractive variant of information capitalism\" based on the commodification of \"reality\" and its transformation into behavioral data for analysis and sales.\n\nIn a subsequent 2015 scholarly article, Zuboff analyzed the societal implications of this mutation of capitalism. She differentiated \"surveillance assets\", \"surveillance capital\", and \"surveillance capitalism\" and their dependence on a global architecture of computer mediation that she calls \"Big Other\", a distributed and largely uncontested new expression of power which constitutes hidden mechanisms of extraction, commodification, and control that threatens core values such as freedom, democracy, and privacy.\n\nAccording to Zuboff, surveillance capitalism was pioneered at Google and later Facebook, in much the same way that mass-production and managerial capitalism were pioneered at Ford and General Motors a century earlier, and has now become the dominant form of information capitalism. \n\nIn her Oxford University lecture published in 2016, Zuboff identified surveillance capitalism's mechanisms and practices, including the manufacture of \"prediction products\" for sale in new \"behavioral futures markets\". She introduced the concept \"dispossession by surveillance\" and argued that it challenges the psychological and political bases of self-determination as it concentrates rights in the surveillance regime. This is described as a \"coup from above\".\n\nEconomic pressures of capitalism are driving the intensification of connection and monitoring online with spaces of social life becoming open to saturation by corporate actors, directed at the making of profit and/or the regulation of action. Relevantly, Turow writes that \"centrality of corporate power is a direct reality at the very heart of the digital age\". Capitalism has become focused on expanding the proportion of social life that is open to data collection and data processing. This may come with significant implications for vulnerability and control of society as well as for privacy. However, increased data collection may also have various advantages for individuals and society such as self-optimization (Quantified Self), societal optimizations (such as by smart cities) and new or optimized services (such as various Google applications). Still, collecting and processing data in the context of capitalism's core profit-making motive might present an inherent danger.\n\nZuboff contrasts mass production of industrial capitalism with surveillance capitalism with the former being interdependent with its populations who were its consumers and employees and the latter preying on dependent populations who are neither its consumers nor its employees and largely ignorant of its procedures.\n\nShe notes that surveillance capitalism reaches beyond the conventional institutional terrain of the private firm and accumulates not only surveillance assets and capital, but also rights and operates without meaningful mechanisms of consent. Surveillance has been changing power structures in the information economy. This might present a further power shift beyond the nation-state and towards a form of corporatocracy.\n\nOliver Stone, creator of the film \"Snowden\" pointed to the location-based game \"Pokémon Go\" as the \"latest sign of the emerging phenomenon of surveillance capitalism\".\n\nIn 2014 Vincent Mosco referred to the marketing of information about customers and subscribers to advertisers \"surveillance capitalism\" and makes note of the surveillance state alongside it. Christian Fuchs found that the surveillance state fuses with surveillance capitalism. Similarly Zuboff informs that the issue is further complicated by highly invisible collaborative arrangements with state security apparatuses. According to Trebor Scholz, companies recruit people as informants for this type of capitalism.\n\nThe term \"surveillance capitalism\" has also been used by political economists John Bellamy Foster and Robert W. McChesney, though with a different meaning. In an article published in \"Monthly Review\" in 2014, they apply it to describe the manifestation of the \"insatiable need for data\" of financialization, which they explain is \"the long-term growth speculation on financial assets relative to GDP\" introduced in the United States by industry and government in the 1980s that evolved out of the military-industrial complex and the advertising industry.\n\nZuboff identifies four key features in the logic of surveillance capitalism and explicitly follows the four key features identified by Google's chief economist, Hal Varian:\n\n\nNumerous organizations have been struggling for free speech and privacy rights in the new surveillance capitalism and various national governments have enacted privacy laws. It is also conceivable that new capabilities and uses for mass-surveillance require structural changes towards a new system to prevent misuse.\n\nZuboff compares demanding privacy from surveillance capitalists or lobbying for an end to commercial surveillance on the Internet to asking Henry Ford to make each Model T by hand and states that such demands are existential threats that violate the basic mechanisms of the entity's survival.\n\nZuboff warns that principles of self-determination might forfeit due to \"ignorance, learned helplessness, inattention, inconvenience, habituation, or drift\" and states that \"we tend to rely on mental models, vocabularies, and tools distilled from past catastrophes\", referring to the twentieth century's totalitarian nightmares or the monopolistic predations of Gilded Age capitalism with countermeasures that have been developed to fight those earlier threats not being sufficient or even appropriate for the novel challenges.\n\nShe also poses the question: \"will we be the masters of information, or will we be its slaves?\" and states that \"if the digital future is to be our home, then it is we who must make it so\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37894639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37894639", "title": "Svasaṃvedana", "text": "Svasaṃvedana\n\nIn Buddhist philosophy, Svasaṃvedana (also \"Svasaṃvitti\") is a term which refers to the self-reflexive nature of consciousness. It was initially a theory of cognition held by the Mahasamghika and Sautrantika schools while the Sarvastivada-Vaibhasika school argued against it.\n\nThe idea was famously defended by the Indian philosopher Dignaga, and is an important doctrinal term in Indian Mahayana thought and Tibetan Buddhism. It is also often translated as self cognition or self apperception. \n\nAccording to Zhihua Yao, the theory was first presented by the Mahasamghika school. Their view was preserved in the Sarvastivada compendium of Abhidharma called Maha-Vibhasa and states:It is the nature (\"svabhava\") of awareness (\"jñana\") and so forth to apprehend, thus awareness can apprehend itself as well as others. This is like a lamp that can illuminate itself and others owing to its nature of luminosity.The issue is also discussed in the Theravadin Katthavatthu (section V.9) in a dialogue between a Theravadin and an Andhaka (the Mahasamghikas in the Andhra region). In the dialogue, the Andhaka is asked by the Theravadin if one knows an awareness of the present \"by that same awareness.\" The Andhaka first denies this, but then affirms it when asked again. In the commentary to the Katthavatthu, Buddhaghosa explains this because \"continuity is concerned\", thus if seen by itself a mind moment cannot know itself but in a continuous stream of mind moments it can thus be said. The Theravadin counters with the argument that the other aggregates like feeling do not feel themselves and uses similes like a knife that cannot cut itself or a needle that does not pierce itself. The Andhaka then recovers by making the following argument for his position of self cognition:But, when all phenomena are seen as impermanent, is not that awareness also seen as impermanent?Sarvastivada sources which discuss self-cognition mainly do so in order to refute the idea that a mind moment can know itself in that moment. These include the Jñanaprasthana and Mahavibhasa. However that does not mean the Sarvastivadins reject all theories of self cognition, they developed their own theory which argued that mind moments know themselves only reflexively in regards to the previous mind moments. As Zhihua Yao states, \"in other words, the mind knows itself through a \"reflection\" of the past mind\". The Sarvastivadins use their metaphysical theory of the real existence of the past, present and future to allow for a present mind to take a past mind as itself.\n\nSautrantika authors also discussed the theory. It was extensively covered by the Harivarman, the author of the Tattvasiddhishastra, and shows that he was in a dialogue with both Sarvastivada and Mahasamghika views. Harivarman's view argues against the Mahasamghika's simultaenous model of self-cognition and instead argues that self-cognition is only seen in the course of successive moments of cognition. That is, it involves multiple mental processes which Harivarman considers as happening in the \"present continuum\" and is not a case of a single mind moment knowing itself but is a case of the mind grasping the \"image\" (\"akara\") of itself as it is fading away. This is also part of his account of how memory works.\n\nThe Buddhist philosopher Dignaga also defended a theory of \"svasamvedana\" drawing on Sautrantika and Yogacara influences. For Dignaga, \"svasamvedana\" is a kind of perception (\"pratyaksa\") which is an \"internal awareness of mental consciousness\" and his theory of perception also entails that it is non-conceptual (unlike the other source of valid cognition, \"anumana -\" inference). \n\nSvasaṃvedana is at the root of a major doctrinal disagreement in Indian Mahayana Buddhism. While defended by the Yogacara thinkers such as Dharmakirti and the eclectic Santaraksita, it was attacked by 'Prasangika Madhyamika' thinkers such as Candrakirti and Santideva. Since in Mādhyamika thought all dharmas are empty of inherent essence (Svabhava), they argued that consciousness could not be an inherently reflexive ultimate reality since that would mean it was self validating and therefore not characterized by emptiness.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism there are various competing views regarding svasaṃvedana (Tibetan: Ranggi rig pa). \n\nIn the Nyingma school's Dzogchen tradition, svasaṃvedana is often called 'the very nature of mind' (sems kyi chos nyid) and metaphorically referred to as 'luminosity' (\"gsal ba\") or 'clear light' (\"'od gsal\"). A common Tibetan metaphor for this reflexivity is that of a lamp in a dark room which in the act of illuminating objects in the room also illuminates itself. Dzogchen meditative practices aim to bring the mind to direct realization of this luminous nature. In Dzogchen (as well as some Mahamudra traditions) Svasaṃvedana is seen as the primordial substratum or ground (gdod ma'i gzhi) of mind. \n\nFollowing Je Tsongkhapa's (1357–1419) interpretation of the Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka view, the Gelug school completely denies both the conventional and the ultimate existence of reflexive awareness. This is one of Tsongkhapa's \"eight difficult points\" that distinguish the Prasaṅgika view from others. The Nyingma philosopher Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso (1846–1912) defended the conventional existence of reflexive awareness as per the Madhyamaka two truths doctrine. According to Mipham, the Prasangika critique of reflexive awareness only applied to its ultimate inherent reality and not its conventional status.\n\n"}
{"id": "33030091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33030091", "title": "Symbols and conventions used in welding documentation", "text": "Symbols and conventions used in welding documentation\n\nThe symbols and conventions used in welding documentation are specified in national and international standards such as ISO 2553 \"Welded, brazed and soldered joints -- Symbolic representation on drawings\" and ISO 4063 \"Welding and allied processes -- Nomenclature of processes and reference numbers\". The US standard symbols are outlined by the American National Standards Institute and the American Welding Society and are noted as \"ANSI/AWS\". Due in part to the growth of the oil industry, this symbol set was used during the 1990s in about 50% of the world's welding operations. An ISO committee sought to establish a global standard during this decade.\n\nIn engineering drawings, each weld is conventionally identified by an arrow which points to the joint to be welded. The arrow is annotated with letters, numbers and symbols which indicate the exact specification of the weld. In complex applications, such as those involving alloys other than mild steel, more information may be called for than can comfortably be indicated using the symbols alone. Annotations are used in these cases.\n\nIn the US, the component elements of the weld specification are:\n\nIf a particular welding process needs to be indicated in addition to the symbols, the following abbreviations are commonly used in North America: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52238391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52238391", "title": "Ten rays model", "text": "Ten rays model\n\nThe ten-ray model is a model applied to the transmissions in the urban area, to generate a model of ten rays typically four rays more are added to the six rays model, these are (formula_1 and formula_2 bouncing on both sides of the wall); This incorporate paths from one to three reflections: specifically, there is the LOS (Line of sight), GR (ground reflected), SW (single-wall reflected), DW (double-wall reflected), TW (triple-wall reflected), WG (wall-ground reflected) and GW (ground-wall reflected paths). Where each one of the paths bounces on both sides of the wall.\n\nExperimentally, it has been demonstrated that the ten ray model simulates or can represent the propagation of signals through a dielectric canyon, in it which the rays that travel from a transmitter point to a receiver point bounce many times.\n\nAs example for this model it is assume: a rectilinear free space with two walls, one upper and the other lower, from which two vertical bases are positioned at their ends, these are the transmitting and receiving antennas that it’s locate in such a way that their heights don’t surpass the limits of the top wall; Achieved this the structure acts as free space for its functioning similar to that of a dielectric canyon of signals propagation, since the rays transmitted from the transmitting antenna will collide each side of the upper and lower walls infinity of times (for this example up to 3 reflections) until reaching the receiving antenna. During the course of the rays for each reflection they suffer, part of the energy of the signal is dissipated in each reflection, normally after the third reflection of said ray its resulting component which is a retro-reflected ray is insignificant with a negligible energy.\n\nFor the mathematical modeling of the propagation of ten rays, One has in account a side view and this starts off modeling the two first rays (line by sight and his respective reflection), Considering that antennas have different heights, Then formula_3, and they have a direct distance d that separates the two antennas; The first ray is formed applying Pitágoras theorem:\n\nThe second ray or the reflected ray is made in a similar way to the first, but in this case the heights of the antennas to form the right angled triangle for the reflection of the height of the transmitter are added up.\n\nIn the deduction of the third ray it is necessary find the angle between the direct distance formula_6 and the distance of line of view formula_7\n\nViewing the model with a side view, it is necessary to find a flat distance between the transmitter and receiver called formula_9.\n\nNow we deduce the remaining height of the wall from the height of the receiver called formula_11 by the similarity of triangles:\n\nBy likeness of triangles we can deduce the distance from where collides the ray to wall until the perpendicular of the receiver called formula_14, getting:\n\nThe third ray is defined as a model of two-rays, by which is:\n\nTaking a side view it is achieves to evidence the reflected ray that there in formula_18 and is find as following manner:\n\nAs exist two rays that collide once on the wall, then is find the fifth ray, equating it to the third.\n\nSimilarly, is equalized the sixth ray with the fourth ray, since they have the same characteristics.\n\nTo model the rays that collide with the wall twice, is used the Pythagoras theorem because of the direct distance formula_6 and the sum of the distances between the receiver to each wall with double of distance of the transmitter to the wall formula_23, this divides on the angle formed between the direct distance and the reflected ray.\n\nFor the eighth ray is calculate a series of variables that allow to deduce the complete equation, which is composed by distances and heights that were found by likeness of triangles.\n\nIn first instance is take the flat distance between the wall of the second shock and the receiver:\n\nIs found the flat distance between the transmitter and the wall in the first shock.\n\nFinding the distance between the height of the wall of the second shock with respect to the first shock, is obtain:\n\nDeducing also the distance between the height of the wall of the second shock with respect to the receiver:\n\nCalculating the height of the wall where occurs the first hit:\n\nCalculating the height of the wall where occurs the second shock:\n\nWith these parameters is calculate the equation for the eighth ray:\n\nFor the ninth ray, equation is the same as the seventh ray due to its characteristics:\n\nFor the tenth ray, the equation is the same as the eighth ray due to its reflected ray shape:\n\nIs considered a signal transmitted through free space to a receiver located at a distance \"d\" from the transmitter.\n\nAssuming there are no obstacles between the transmitter and the receiver, the signal propagates along a straight line between the two. The beam model associated with this transmission is denominated line of sight (LOS), and the signal received corresponding is called the LOS signal or beam.\n\nThe trajectory losses of the ten-ray model in free space is defined as:\n\n"}
{"id": "8376406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8376406", "title": "Trope (literature)", "text": "Trope (literature)\n\nA literary trope is the use of figurative language, via word, phrase or an image, for artistic effect such as using a figure of speech. The word \"trope\" has also come to be used for describing commonly recurring literary and rhetorical devices, motifs or clichés in creative works.\n\nThe term \"trope\" derives from the Greek (\"tropos\"), \"turn, direction, way\", derived from the verb τρέπειν (\"trepein\"), \"to turn, to direct, to alter, to change\". Tropes and their classification were an important field in classical rhetoric. The study of tropes has been taken up again in modern criticism, especially in deconstruction. Tropological criticism (not to be confused with tropological reading, a type of biblical exegesis) is the historical study of tropes, which aims to \"define the dominant tropes of an epoch\" and to \"find those tropes in literary and non-literary texts\", an interdisciplinary investigation of which Michel Foucault was an \"important exemplar\".\n\nA specialized use is the medieval amplification of texts from the liturgy, such as in the \"Kyrie Eleison\" (\"Kyrie, / magnae Deus potentia, / liberator hominis, / transgressoris mandati, / eleison\"). The most important example of such a trope is the \"Quem quaeritis?\", an amplification before the \"Introit\" of the Easter Sunday service and the source for liturgical drama. This particular practice came to an end with the Tridentine Mass, the unification of the liturgy in 1570 promulgated by Pope Pius V.\n\nRhetoricians have closely analyzed the great variety of \"twists and turns\" used in poetry and literature and have provided an extensive list of precise labels for these poetic devices. These include:\n\n\nFor a longer list, see Figure of speech: Tropes.\n\nKenneth Burke has called metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche and irony the \"four master tropes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13184156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13184156", "title": "Valence (psychology)", "text": "Valence (psychology)\n\nValence, as used in psychology, especially in discussing emotions, means the intrinsic attractiveness/\"good\"-ness (positive valence) or averseness/\"bad\"-ness (negative valence) of an event, object, or situation. The term also characterizes and categorizes specific emotions. For example, emotions popularly referred to as \"negative\", such as anger and fear, have \"negative valence\". Joy has \"positive valence\". Positively valenced emotions are evoked by positively valenced events, objects, or situations. The term is also used to describe the hedonic tone of feelings, affect, certain behaviors (for example, approach and avoidance), goal attainment or nonattainment, and conformity with or violation of norms. Ambivalence can be viewed as conflict between positive and negative valence-carriers.\n\nTheorists taking a valence-based approach to studying affect, judgment, and choice posit that emotions with the same valence (e.g., anger and fear or pride and surprise) produce a similar influence on judgments and choices.\nStress is negative valence and opposite of this is pleasure or happiness. Stress can mean all unpleasant emotions.\n\nThe term entered English in psychology with the translation from German (\"Valenz\") in 1935 of works of Kurt Lewin. Ambivalence has a longer history.\n\nValence is one criterion used in some definitions of emotion. The possible absence of valence is cited as a reason to exclude surprise from the list of emotions, though some would include it.\n\nValence could be assigned a number and treated as if it were measured, but the validity of a measurement based on a subjective report is questionable. Measurement based on observations of facial expressions, using the Facial Action Coding System and microexpressions (see Paul Ekman) or muscle activity detected through facial electromyography, or on modern functional brain imaging may overcome this objection. Emotional valence is represented in right posterior superior temporal sulcus and medial prefrontal cortex.\n\n"}
{"id": "11737832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11737832", "title": "Vergonha", "text": "Vergonha\n\n\"La vergonha\" (, meaning \"shame\") is what Occitans call the effects of various policies of the government of France on its citizens whose native language was a so-called \"patois\", a language other than French, such as Occitan or one of the dialects of the \"langues d'oc\". \"Vergonha\" is being made to reject and feel ashamed of one's (or one's parents') mother tongue through official exclusion, humiliation at school and rejection from the media, as organized and sanctioned by French political leaders from Henri Grégoire onward. \"Vergonha\", which is still a taboo topic in France where some still refuse to admit such discrimination ever existed, can be seen as the result of an attempted linguicide. In 1860, before schooling was made compulsory, native Occitan speakers represented more than 39% of the whole French population, as opposed to 52% of francophones proper; their share of the population declined to 26–36% in the 1920s, and then dropped to less than 7% by 1993.\n\nBeginning in 1539 with Art. 111 of the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts, non-French languages in France were reduced in stature when it became compulsory \"to deliver and execute all [legal] acts in the French language\" (\"de prononcer et expedier tous actes en langaige françoys\"). Originally meant as a way to eliminate Latin in official documents — few 16th-century French subjects were educated and familiar with Latin — it also stated that French and only French was legal in the kingdom (\"en langage maternel françoys et non aultrement\").\n\nThe deliberate process of eradicating non-French vernaculars in modern France and disparaging them as mere local and often strictly oral dialects was formalized with Henri Grégoire's \"Report on the necessity and means to annihilate the patois and to universalise the use of the French language\", which he presented on June 4, 1794 to the National Convention; thereafter, all languages other than French were officially banned in the administration and schools for the sake of linguistically uniting post-Bastille Day France. At the time, only one tenth of the population were fluent in French. In reference to \"patois\", Jean Jaurès famously claimed that \"one names \"patois\" the language of a defeated nation\". According to the \"Chambers Dictionary\", the origin of the term is disputed but could be a \"corruption of \"patrois\", from LL \"patriensis\", a local inhabitant\".\n\nFour months earlier (January 27), Bertrand Barère, although an Occitan from Tarbes himself, claimed before this same Convention:\nThis policy can be noted by the way France's internal borders were redrawn, creating 83 \"départements\". The law was passed on December 22, 1789 and took effect the following year, on March 4, 1790. As a result, the centuries-old singularities of the various Occitan-speaking parts were overlooked and shaken in a deliberate effort by the newly formed government to weaken and parcel out long-established feudal domains so that republican France would subdue traditional allegiances, as Antonin Perbòsc reveals in the Foreword to his \"Anthologie\":\nIn the 20th century, the \"départements\" were grouped into \"régions\", to create a level of government between the departmental and national. While the \"régions\" were intended to replace the old provinces, they were not necessarily formed along the same boundaries. As the map shows, there were eleven Occitan-speaking enclaves in the pre-1789 state, such as the powerful lands of Languedoc and Gascony, but they were divided into seven \"régions\" with no regard whatsoever for cultural and linguistic identities. This is how Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur was created out of portions of five Occitan provinces and three capitals were scrapped in favour of Marseille; and Auvergne came to comprise both native and \"langues d'oïl\" entities. Meanwhile, the city of Nantes was administratively removed from Brittany, of which it had been one of two traditional capitals (along with Rennes), and the city of Toulouse was not included in the \"région\" of Languedoc-Roussillon, though it had historically been located in that province.\n\nMany of the \"régions\" contain hyphenated names, reflecting the merging of multiple historically distinct areas. This is true for four of the seven \"régions\" of Occitania: Languedoc-Roussillon, Midi-Pyrénées, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur and Rhône-Alpes.\n\n\nIn the 1880s, Jules Ferry implemented a series of strict measures to further weaken \"regional\" languages in France, as shown in Bernard Poignant's 1998 report to Lionel Jospin. These included children being given punishments by their teachers for speaking Occitan in a Toulouse school or Breton in Brittany. Art. 30 of \"Loi d'éducation française\" (French Teaching Law, 1851) stated that: \"It is strictly forbidden to speak patois during classes or breaks.\"\n\nAmong other well-known humiliations was \"clogging\" young rebels, namely hanging a clog (\"sabot\") around their necks as this young lady recalls her grandparents telling her:\n\nMy grandparents speak Breton too, though not with me. As children, they used to have their fingers smacked if they happened to say a word in Breton. Back then, the French of the Republic, one and indivisible, was to be heard in all schools and those who dared challenge this policy were humiliated with having to wear a clog around their necks or kneel down on a ruler under a sign that read: \"It is forbidden to spit on the ground and speak Breton\". That's the reason why some older folks won't transmit the language to their children: it brings trouble upon yourself...\n\nThis practice was referred to as le symbole by officials and \"la vache\" (the cow) by pupils, with offenders becoming \"vachards\". Many objects were used, not just clogs: horseshoes, shingles, slates, wooden plates with a message, coins with a cross on them. The following are official instructions from a Finistère sub-prefect to teachers in 1845: \"And remember, Gents: you were given your position in order to kill the Breton language.\" The prefect of Basses-Pyrénées in the French Basque Country wrote in 1846: \"Our schools in the Basque Country are particularly meant to substitute the Basque language with French...\"\n\nResorting to the practice of \"clogging\" is confirmed by the Autonomes de Solidarité Laïques website:\n\nSchool has had a unifying role inasmuch as speaking the \"noble\" language [French] reduced the use of regional dialects and \"patois\". Let us mention the humiliation of children made to wear a clog around their necks for inadvertently speaking a word in the language of the people.\n\nAs for signs, they were also found in Poitou schools:\n\nIt seems as though Jules Ferry making school free and compulsory in 1881 materialized the work started four centuries earlier [with the Ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts]; the method of repression and humiliation that was undertaken bore fruit with, for instance, the famous signs in school reading: \"It is forbidden to spit on the ground and speak \"patois\".\"\n\nThe Conselh de Representacion Generala de la Joventut d'Òc (CRGJOC, General Representation Council of the Occitan Youth), through the Youth of European Nationalities website, reports that\n\nOur language [Occitan] lost its name, becoming some \"\"patois\", first at school and then in families through putting pressure on women in education (\"Interdit de cracher par terre et de parler patois\"\") with the French Third Republic, Mussolini and Franco.\n\nThe Confolentés Occitan (Occitan-speaking Limousin) website testifies of the methods used by French authorities over the past century or so:\n\nTo help efface traditional regional identities, the Occitan language was not merely discouraged but actively suppressed. School pupils were punished well within living memory for speaking their native language on school premises.\n\nThe French administration managed to make the Occitan speakers think of their own language as a patois, i.e. as a corrupted form of French used only by the ignorant and uneducated. This alienating process is known as \"la vergonha\" (\"the shame\").\n\nMany older speakers of Occitan still believe that their native language is no more than a shameful patois. This is one reason why you rarely hear it in public — or anywhere outside of the neighbourhood or family circle.\nIn the school of Camélas in Northern Catalonia, a former pupil reports,\n\nEveryone but the teacher's children spoke Catalan among themselves. We'd even get punished for that, because at the time, we all had to speak French. \"Be Clean, Speak French\" could be found written on the school's walls. And if you refused to speak French, they'd give you some sort of wooden sign to wear \"until death came\", as we said, which meant the last offender, in the evening, had twenty lines to copy. We'd speak French in the schoolyard, and for the first ten metres of the way back home, for as long as we thought the teacher would overhear us, and then we'd switch back to our own mother tongue, Catalan.\n\nIn those times, Catalan speakers were rather despised. My generation associated speaking Catalan with a disadvantage, with being less than the others, with running the risk of being left behind on the social ladder, in short with bringing trouble.\nAbbé Grégoire's own terms were kept to designate the languages of France: while Breton referred to the language spoken in Brittany, the word \"patois\" encompassed all Romance \"dialects\" such as Occitan and Franco-Provençal. In his report, Corsican and Alsatian were dismissed as \"highly degenerate\" (\"très-dégénérés\") forms of Italian and German, respectively. As a result, some people still call their non-French language \"patois\", encouraged by the fact they were never taught how to write it and made to think only French exists in the written form.\n\nIn 1902, in a speech before the \"Conseil Général\" of Morbihan, Chief Education Officer Dantzer recommended that \"the Church give first communion only to French-speaking children\".\n\nIn the same year, prime minister Émile Combes, himself an Occitan, told the prefects of Morbihan, Côtes-du-Nord and Finistère that:\n\nBreton priests want to keep their flock in ignorance by refusing to promote education and using only the Breton language in religious teachings and catechism. The Bretons will only be part of the Republic the day they start speaking French.\nAs the doctor in Catalan philology and professor at the University of the Balearic Islands Jaume Corbera Pou argues,\n\nWhen at the mid-19th century, primary school is made compulsory all across the State, it is also made clear that only French will be taught, and the teachers will severely punish any pupil speaking in \"patois\". The aim of the French educational system will consequently not be to dignify the pupils' natural humanity, developing their culture and teaching them to write their language, but rather to humiliate them and morally degrade them for the simple fact of being what tradition and their nature made them. The self-proclaimed country of the \"Human rights\" will then ignore one of man's most fundamental rights, the right to be himself and speak the language of his nation. And with that attitude France, the \"grande France\" that calls itself the champion of liberty, will pass the 20th century, indifferent to the timid protest movements of the various linguistic communities it submitted and the literary prestige they may have given birth to.\n\nFrance, that under Franco's reign was seen here [in Catalonia] as the safe haven of freedom, has the miserable honour of being the [only] State of Europe—and probably the world — that succeeded best in the diabolical task of destroying its own ethnic and linguistic patrimony and moreover, of destroying human family bonds: many parents and children, or grandparents and grandchildren, have different languages, and the latter feel ashamed of the first because they speak a despicable \"patois\", and no element of the grandparents' culture has been transmitted to the younger generation, as if they were born out of a completely new world. This is the French State that has just entered the 21st century, a country where stone monuments and natural landscapes are preserved and respected, but where many centuries of popular creation expressed in different tongues are on the brink of extinction. The \"gloire\" and the \"grandeur\" built on a genocide. No liberty, no equality, no fraternity: just cultural extermination, this is the real motto of the French Republic.\nIn 1972, Georges Pompidou, the President of France and a native of an Occitan-speaking region, declared that \"there is no room for regional languages in a France whose fate is to mark Europe with its seal\".\n\nIn a pre-election speech in Lorient, on March 14, 1981, François Mitterrand asserted that:\n\nThese declarations however were not followed by any effective measures.\n\nIn 1992, after some questioned the unconstitutional segregation of minority languages in France, Art. II of the 1958 French Constitution was revised so that \"the language of the Republic is French\" (\"la langue de la République est le français\"). This was achieved only months before the Council of Europe passed the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which Jacques Chirac ignored despite Lionel Jospin's plea for the Constitutional Council to amend Art. II and include all vernacular languages spoken on French soil. Yet again, non-French languages in France were denied official recognition and deemed too dangerous for the unity of the country, and Occitans, Basques, Corsicans, Catalans, Bretons, Alsatians, Nissarts, Savoyards and Flemings have still no explicit legal right to conduct public affairs in their regional languages within their home lands. The text was again refused by majority deputies on January 18, 2008, after the Académie française voiced their absolute disapproval of so-called regional languages, the recognition of which they perceive as \"an attack on French national identity\".\n\nOn the UMP website, Nicolas Sarkozy denies any mistreatment of regional languages. In a pre-electoral speech in Besançon on 13 March 2007 he claimed:\n\nHis Socialist rival, Ségolène Royal, on the contrary, declared herself ready to sign the Charter in a March 2007 speech in Iparralde for the sake of cultural variety in France:\n\nOn 27 October 2015, the Senate rejected a bill for the ratification of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, preventing the adoption of a constitutional reform that would have given a degree of official status to regional languages such as Occitan.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1569217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569217", "title": "Veronese surface", "text": "Veronese surface\n\nIn mathematics, the Veronese surface is an algebraic surface in five-dimensional projective space, and is realized by the Veronese embedding, the embedding of the projective plane given by the complete linear system of conics. It is named after Giuseppe Veronese (1854–1917). Its generalization to higher dimension is known as the Veronese variety.\n\nThe surface admits an embedding in the four-dimensional projective space defined by the projection from a general point in the five-dimensional space. Its general projection to three-dimensional projective space is called a Steiner surface.\n\nThe Veronese surface is the image of the mapping\ngiven by\n\nwhere formula_3 denotes homogeneous coordinates. The map formula_4 is known as the Veronese embedding.\n\nThe Veronese surface arises naturally in the study of conics. A conic is a degree 2 plane curve, thus defined by an equation:\nThe pairing between coefficients formula_6 and variables formula_7 is linear in coefficients and quadratic in the variables; the Veronese map makes it linear in the coefficients and linear in the monomials. Thus for a fixed point formula_8 the condition that a conic contains the point is a linear equation in the coefficients, which formalizes the statement that \"passing through a point imposes a linear condition on conics\".\n\nThe Veronese map or Veronese variety generalizes this idea to mappings of general degree \"d\" in \"n\"+1 variables. That is, the Veronese map of degree \"d\" is the map\n\nwith \"m\" given by the multiset coefficient, or more familiarly the binomial coefficient, as:\n\nThe map sends formula_11 to all possible monomials of total degree \"d\", thus the appearance of combinatorial functions; the formula_12 and formula_13 are due to projectivization. The last expression shows that for fixed source dimension \"n,\" the target dimension is a polynomial in \"d\" of degree \"n\" and leading coefficient formula_14\n\nFor low degree, formula_15 is the trivial constant map to formula_16 and formula_17 is the identity map on formula_18 so \"d\" is generally taken to be 2 or more.\n\nOne may define the Veronese map in a coordinate-free way, as\n\nwhere \"V\" is any vector space of finite dimension, and formula_20 are its symmetric powers of degree \"d\". This is homogeneous of degree \"d\" under scalar multiplication on \"V\", and therefore passes to a mapping on the underlying projective spaces.\n\nIf the vector space \"V\" is defined over a field \"K\" which does not have characteristic zero, then the definition must be altered to be understood as a mapping to the dual space of polynomials on \"V\". This is because for fields with finite characteristic \"p\", the \"p\"th powers of elements of \"V\" are not rational normal curves, but are of course a line. (See, for example additive polynomial for a treatment of polynomials over a field of finite characteristic).\n\nFor formula_21 the Veronese variety is known as the rational normal curve, of which the lower-degree examples are familiar.\n\nThe image of a variety under the Veronese map is again a variety, rather than simply a constructible set; furthermore, these are isomorphic in the sense that the inverse map exists and is regular – the Veronese map is biregular. More precisely, the images of open sets in the Zariski topology are again open.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46112", "title": "Violence", "text": "Violence\n\nViolence is defined by the World Health Organization as \"the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against oneself, another person, or against a group or community, which either results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment, or deprivation,\" although the group acknowledges that the inclusion of \"the use of power\" in its definition expands on the conventional understanding of the word.\nGlobally, violence resulted in the deaths of an estimated 1.28 million people in 2013 up from 1.13 million in 1990. Of the deaths in 2013, roughly 842,000 were attributed to self-harm (suicide), 405,000 to interpersonal violence, and 31,000 to collective violence (war) and legal intervention. In Africa, out of every 100,000 people, each year an estimated 60.9 die a violent death. Corlin, past president of the American Medical Association said: \"The United States leads the world—in the rate at which its children die from firearms.\" He concluded: \"Gun violence is a threat to the public health of our country.\" For each single death due to violence, there are dozens of hospitalizations, hundreds of emergency department visits, and thousands of doctors' appointments. Furthermore, violence often has lifelong consequences for physical and mental health and social functioning and can slow economic and social development.\nIn 2013, assault by firearm was the leading cause of death due to interpersonal violence, with 180,000 such deaths estimated to have occurred. The same year, assault by sharp object resulted in roughly 114,000 deaths, with a remaining 110,000 deaths from personal violence being attributed to other causes.\nViolence in many forms is preventable. There is a strong relationship between levels of violence and modifiable factors such as concentrated poverty, income and gender inequality, the harmful use of alcohol, and the absence of safe, stable, and nurturing relationships between children and parents. Strategies addressing the underlying causes of violence can be effective in preventing violence.\n\nViolence can be divided into three broad categories:\n\nViolent acts can be:\n\nThis initial categorization differentiates between violence a person inflicts upon himself or herself, violence inflicted by another individual or by a small group of individuals, and violence inflicted by larger groups such as states, organized political groups, militia groups and terrorist organizations. These three broad categories are each divided further to reflect more specific types of violence.\n\nViolence is primarily classified as either instrumental or reactive / hostile.\n\nSelf-directed violence is subdivided into suicidal behaviour and self-abuse. The former includes suicidal thoughts, attempted suicides – also called \"para suicide\" or \"deliberate self-injury\" in some countries – and completed suicides. Self-abuse, in contrast, includes acts such as self-mutilation.\n\nCollective violence is subdivided into structural violence and economic violence. Unlike the other two broad categories, the subcategories of collective violence suggest possible motives for violence committed by larger groups of individuals or by states. Collective violence that is committed to advance a particular social agenda includes, for example, crimes of hate committed by organized groups, terrorist acts and mob violence. Political violence includes war and related violent conflicts, state violence and similar acts carried out by larger groups. Economic violence includes attacks by larger groups motivated by economic gain – such as attacks carried out with the purpose of disrupting economic activity, denying access to essential services, or creating economic division and fragmentation. Clearly, acts committed by larger groups can have multiple motives.\n\nThis typology, while imperfect and far from being universally accepted, does provide a useful framework for understanding the complex patterns of violence taking place around the world, as well as violence in the everyday lives of individuals, families and communities. It also overcomes many of the limitations of other typologies by capturing the nature of violent acts, the relevance of the setting, the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, and – in the case of collective violence – possible motivations for the violence. However, in both research and practice, the dividing lines between the different types of violence are not always so clear.. State violence also involves upholding, forms of violence of a structural nature, such as poverty, through dismantling welfare, creating strict policies such as 'welfare to work', in order to cause further stimulation and disadvantage Poverty as a form of violence may involve oppressive policies that specifically target minority or low socio-economic groups. The 'war on drugs', for example, rather than increasing the health and well-being of at risk demographics, most often results in violence committed against these vulnerable demographics through incarceration, stigmatization and police brutality\n\nWar is a state of prolonged violent large-scale conflict involving two or more groups of people, usually under the auspices of government. It is the most extreme form of collective violence.\nWar is fought as a means of resolving territorial and other conflicts, as war of aggression to conquer territory or loot resources, in national self-defence or liberation, or to suppress attempts of part of the nation to secede from it. We know also ideological, religious and revolutionary wars.\n\nSince the Industrial Revolution, the lethality of modern warfare has grown. World War I casualties were over 40 million and World War II casualties were over 70 million.\n\nViolence includes those acts that result from a power relationship, including threats and intimidation, neglect or acts of omission. Such non-physical violence has a broad range of outcomes – including psychological harm, deprivation and maldevelopment. Violence may not necessarily result in injury or death, but nonetheless poses a substantial burden on individuals, families, communities and health care systems worldwide. Many forms of violence can result in physical, psychological and social problems that do not necessarily lead to injury, disability or death. These consequences can be immediate, as well as latent, and can last for years after the initial abuse. Defining outcomes solely in terms of injury or death thus limits the understanding of the full impact of violence.\n\nInterpersonal violence is divided into two subcategories: Family and intimate partner violence – that is, violence largely between family members and intimate partners, usually, though not exclusively, taking place in the home. Community violence – violence between individuals who are unrelated, and who may or may not know each other, generally taking place outside the home. The former group includes forms of violence such as child abuse, intimate partner violence and abuse of the elderly. The latter includes youth violence, random acts of violence, rape or sexual assault by strangers, and violence in institutional settings such as schools, workplaces, prisons and nursing homes. When interpersonal violence occurs in families, its psychological consequences can affect parents, children, and their relationship in the short- and long-terms.\n\nChild maltreatment is the abuse and neglect that occurs to children under 18 years of age. It includes all types of physical and/or emotional ill-treatment, sexual abuse, neglect, negligence and commercial or other child exploitation, which results in actual or potential harm to the child’s health, survival, development or dignity in the context of a relationship of responsibility, trust, or power. Exposure to intimate partner violence is also sometimes included as a form of child maltreatment.\n\nChild maltreatment is a global problem with serious lifelong consequences, which is, however, complex and difficult to study.\n\nThere are no reliable global estimates for the prevalence of child maltreatment. Data for many countries, especially low- and middle-income countries, are lacking. Current estimates vary widely depending on the country and the method of research used. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused.\n\nConsequences of child maltreatment include impaired lifelong physical and mental health, and social and occupational functioning (e.g. school, job, and relationship difficulties). These can ultimately slow a country's economic and social development. Preventing child maltreatment before it starts is possible and requires a multisectoral approach. Effective prevention programmes support parents and teach positive parenting skills. Ongoing care of children and families can reduce the risk of maltreatment reoccurring and can minimize its consequences.\n\nFollowing the World Health Organization, youth are defined as people between the ages of 10 and 29 years. Youth violence refers to violence occurring between youths, and includes acts that range from bullying and physical fighting, through more severe sexual and physical assault to homicide.\n\nWorldwide some 250,000 homicides occur among youth 10–29 years of age each year, which is 41% of the total number of homicides globally each year (\"Global Burden of Disease\", World Health Organization, 2008). For each young person killed, 20-40 more sustain injuries requiring hospital treatment. Youth violence has a serious, often lifelong, impact on a person's psychological and social functioning. Youth violence greatly increases the costs of health, welfare and criminal justice services; reduces productivity; decreases the value of property; and generally undermines the fabric of society.\n\nPrevention programmes shown to be effective or to have promise in reducing youth violence include life skills and social development programmes designed to help children and adolescents manage anger, resolve conflict, and develop the necessary social skills to solve problems; schools-based anti-bullying prevention programmes; and programmes to reduce access to alcohol, illegal drugs and guns. Also, given significant neighbourhood effects on youth violence, interventions involving relocating families to less poor environments have shown promising results. Similarly, urban renewal projects such as business improvement districts have shown a reduction in youth violence.\n\nDifferent types of youth on youth violence include witnessing or being involved in physical, emotional and sexual abuse (e.g. physical attacks, bullying, rape) and violent acts like gang shootings and robberies. According to researchers in 2018, \"More than half of children and adolescents living in cities have experienced some form of community violence.\" The violence \"can also all take place under one roof, or in a given community or neighborhood and can happen at the same time or at different stages of life.\" It seems that youth violence is on the rise due to the growing number of legal and illegal guns on the streets especially in low income neighborhoods. Youth violence has immediate and long term adverse impact whether the individual was the recipient of the violence or a witness to it. Our knowledge about the impact of trauma on the brain, mind and body is growing every day as more research studies have been conducted and results are published. \"Youth violence is a leading cause of death for adolescents and young adults. Some forms of youth violence, such as bullying, slapping, or hitting, can cause severe emotional harm, nonfatal physical injuries, and long-lasting problems.\"\n\nThe cost to individuals, their families, and society in general is huge and rising. These people often have lifelong injuries which means ongoing doctor and hospital visits the cost of which quickly adds up. Since the victims of youth on youth violence may not be able to attend school or work because of their physical and/or mental injuries, it is often up to their family members to take care of them (including paying their daily living expenses and medical bills). Their caretakers may have to give up their jobs or work reduced hours to provide help to the victim of violence. This causes a further burden on society because the victim and maybe even their caretakers have to obtain government assistance to help pay their bills. Recent research has found that psychological trauma during childhood can change a child's brain. \"Trauma is known to physically affect the brain and the body which causes anxiety, rage, and the ability to concentrate. They can also have problems remembering, trusting, and forming relationships.\" Since the brain becomes used to violence it may stay continually in an alert state (similar to being stuck in the fight or flight mode). \"Researchers claim that the youth who are exposed to violence may have emotional, social, and cognitive problems. They may have trouble controlling emotions, paying attention in school, withdraw from friends, or show signs of post-traumatic stress disorder\". Youth who do not get help and get it under control may have more issues down the line.\n\nIt is important for youth exposed to violence to understand how their bodies may react so they can take positive steps to counteract any possible short and long term negative effects (e.g., poor concentration, feelings of depression, heightened levels of anxiety). By taking immediate steps to mitigate the effects of the trauma they’ve experienced negative repercussions can be reduced or eliminated. As an initial step, the kids need to understand why they may be feeling a certain way and to understand how the violence they have experienced may be causing negative feelings and making them behave differently. Pursuing a greater awareness of their feelings, perceptions, and negative emotions is the first step that should be taken as part of recovering from the trauma they have experienced. “Neuroscience research shows that the only way we can change the way we feel is by becoming aware of our inner experience and learning to befriend what is going on inside ourselves”. If this initial awareness step is not sufficiently completed the youth may then knowingly or unknowingly resort to bullying as a way to release their own anger, compulsive behaviors (eating, drinking, drugs), anger management problems; and avoidance of social interactions. These types of behaviors may put them at an even greater risk for future violence in their lives. \nSome of the ways to combat the adverse effects of exposure to youth violence would be to try various mindfulness and movement activities, deep breathing exercises and other actions that enable these kids to release their pent up emotions. Using these techniques will teach body awareness, reduce anxiety and nervousness, and reduce feelings of anger and annoyance. Over time these types of activities will help these younger victims of violence to have greater control over their feelings and behaviors and avoid unhealthy ways of coping. Another way to help trauma victims of youth violence is through the arts. This can be accomplished by giving them the opportunity to engage in drawing, painting, music, and singing which will give them an outlet to express themselves and their emotions in a positive way.\n\nIt’s been discovered that having youth who have experienced violence benefit from having a close relationship with one or more people. This is important because the trauma victims need to have people who are safe and trustworthy that they can relate and talk to about their horrible experiences. Some youth do not have adult figures at home or someone they can count on for guidance and comfort. Schools in bad neighborhoods where youth violence is prevalent should assign counselors to each student so that they receive regular guidance. In addition to counseling/therapy sessions and programs, schools should offer mentoring programs where the kids can interact with adults who can be a positive influence on them. Another way is to create more neighborhood programs to ensure that each child has a positive and stable place to go when school in not in session. It doesn’t have to be a formal organization just a place where the kids can have positive role models in their lives and engage in stress relieving activities (sports, yoga, and arts). Many kids have benefited from formal organizations now which aim to help mentor and provide a safe environment for the youth especially those living in neighborhoods with higher rates of violence. This includes organizations such as Becoming a Man, CeaseFire Illinois, Chicago Area Project, Little Black Pearl, and Rainbow House\". These programs are designed to help give the youth a safe place to go, stop the violence from occurring, offering counseling and mentoring to help stop the cycle of violence. For example, Derek grew up amongst the violence in Chicago in the 1980's and was even a former gang leader. It took him thirty years in a gang and time in jail to realize he was on the wrong path. He created a boxing program called \"Boxing Out Negativity\" which provides youth in high crime areas a safe place to get out their anger and energy. It helps them in a positive way and keeps them off the street. With the help of programs to help victims of youth violence there is a greater opportunity for these youth to turn their lives around.\n\nIntimate partner violence refers to behaviour in an intimate relationship that causes physical, sexual or psychological harm, including physical aggression, sexual coercion, psychological abuse and controlling behaviours.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims provide the most accurate estimates of the prevalence of intimate partner violence and sexual violence in non-conflict settings. A study conducted by WHO in 10 mainly developing countries found that, among women aged 15 to 49 years, between 15% (Japan) and 70% (Ethiopia and Peru) of women reported physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner.\n\nIntimate partner and sexual violence have serious short- and long-term physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health problems for victims and for their children, and lead to high social and economic costs. These include both fatal and non-fatal injuries, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, unintended pregnancies, sexually transmitted infections, including HIV.\n\nFactors associated with the perpetration and experiencing of intimate partner violence are low levels of education, history of violence as a perpetrator, a victim or a witness of parental violence, harmful use of alcohol, attitudes that are accepting of violence as well as marital discord and dissatisfaction. Factors associated only with perpetration of intimate partner violence are having multiple partners, and antisocial personality disorder.\n\nA recent theory named \"The Criminal Spin\" suggests a mutual flywheel effect between partners that is manifested by an escalation in the violence. A violent spin may occur in any other forms of violence, but in Intimate partner violence the added value is the mutual spin, based on the unique situation and characteristics of intimate relationship.\n\nThe primary prevention strategy with the best evidence for effectiveness for intimate partner violence is school-based programming for adolescents to prevent violence within dating relationships. Evidence is emerging for the effectiveness of several other primary prevention strategies – those that: combine microfinance with gender equality training; promote communication and relationship skills within communities; reduce access to, and the harmful use of alcohol; and change cultural gender norms.\n\nSexual violence is any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed against a person’s sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting. It includes rape, defined as the physically forced or otherwise coerced penetration of the vulva or anus with a penis, other body part or object.\n\nPopulation-level surveys based on reports from victims estimate that between 0.3–11.5% of women reported experiencing sexual violence. Sexual violence has serious short- and long-term consequences on physical, mental, sexual and reproductive health for victims and for their children as described in the section on intimate partner violence. If perpetrated during childhood, sexual violence can lead to increased smoking, drug and alcohol misuse, and risky sexual behaviors in later life. It is also associated with perpetration of violence and being a victim of violence.\n\nMany of the risk factors for sexual violence are the same as for domestic violence. Risk factors specific to sexual violence perpetration include beliefs in family honor and sexual purity, ideologies of male sexual entitlement and weak legal sanctions for sexual violence.\n\nFew interventions to prevent sexual violence have been demonstrated to be effective. School-based programmes to prevent child sexual abuse by teaching children to recognize and avoid potentially sexually abusive situations are run in many parts of the world and appear promising, but require further research. To achieve lasting change, it is important to enact legislation and develop policies that protect women; address discrimination against women and promote gender equality; and help to move the culture away from violence.\n\nElder maltreatment is a single or repeated act, or lack of appropriate action, occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation of trust which causes harm or distress to an older person. This type of violence constitutes a violation of human rights and includes physical, sexual, psychological, emotional; financial and material abuse; abandonment; neglect; and serious loss of dignity and respect.\n\nWhile there is little information regarding the extent of maltreatment in elderly populations, especially in developing countries, it is estimated that 4–6% of elderly people in high-income countries have experienced some form of maltreatment at home However, older people are often afraid to report cases of maltreatment to family, friends, or to the authorities. Data on the extent of the problem in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities are scarce. Elder maltreatment can lead to serious physical injuries and long-term psychological consequences. Elder maltreatment is predicted to increase as many countries are experiencing rapidly ageing populations.\n\nMany strategies have been implemented to prevent elder maltreatment and to take action against it and mitigate its consequences including public and professional awareness campaigns, screening (of potential victims and abusers), caregiver support interventions (e.g. stress management, respite care), adult protective services and self-help groups. Their effectiveness has, however, not so far been well-established.\n\nSeveral rare but painful episodes of assassination, attempted assassination and school shootings at elementary, middle, high schools, as well as colleges and universities in the United States, led to a considerable body of research on ascertainable behaviors of persons who have planned or carried out such attacks. These studies (1995–2002) investigated what the authors called \"targeted violence,\" described the \"path to violence\" of those who planned or carried out attacks and laid out suggestions for law enforcement and educators. A major point from these research studies is that targeted violence does not just \"come out of the blue\".\n\nAs an anthropological concept, \"everyday violence\" may refer to the incorporation of different forms of violence (mainly political violence) into daily practices.\n\nViolence cannot be attributed to a single factor. Its causes are complex and occur at different levels. To represent this complexity, the ecological, or social ecological model is often used. The following four-level version of the ecological model is often used in the study of violence:\n\nThe first level identifies biological and personal factors that influence how individuals behave and increase their likelihood of becoming a victim or perpetrator of violence: demographic characteristics (age, education, income), genetics, brain lesions, personality disorders, substance abuse, and a history of experiencing, witnessing, or engaging in violent behaviour.\n\nThe second level focuses on close relationships, such as those with family and friends. In youth violence, for example, having friends who engage in or encourage violence can increase a young person’s risk of being a victim or perpetrator of violence. For intimate partner violence, a consistent marker at this level of the model is marital conflict or discord in the relationship. In elder abuse, important factors are stress due to the nature of the past relationship between the abused person and the care giver.\n\nThe third level explores the community context—i.e., schools, workplaces, and neighbourhoods. Risk at this level may be affected by factors such as the existence of a local drug trade, the absence of social networks, and concentrated poverty. All these factors have been shown to be important in several types of violence.\n\nFinally, the fourth level looks at the broad societal factors that help to create a climate in which violence is encouraged or inhibited: the responsiveness of the criminal justice system, social and cultural norms regarding gender roles or parent-child relationships, income inequality, the strength of the social welfare system, the social acceptability of violence, the availability of weapons, the exposure to violence in mass media, and political instability.\n\nCross-cultural studies have shown that greater prevalence of corporal punishment of children tends to predict higher levels of violence in societies. For instance, a 2005 analysis of 186 pre-industrial societies found that corporal punishment was more prevalent in societies which also had higher rates of homicide, assault, and war. In the United States, domestic corporal punishment has been linked to later violent acts against family members and spouses. While studies showing associations between physical punishment of children and later aggression cannot prove that physical punishment causes an increase in aggression, a number of longitudinal studies suggest that the experience of physical punishment has a direct causal effect on later aggressive behaviors. The American family violence researcher Murray A. Straus believes that disciplinary spanking forms \"the most prevalent and important form of violence in American families\", whose effects contribute to several major societal problems, including later domestic violence and crime.\n\nThe causes of violent behaviour in humans are often a topic of research in psychology. Neurobiologist Jan Volavka emphasizes that, for those purposes, \"violent behavior is defined as intentional physically aggressive behavior against another person.\"\n\nBased on the idea of human nature, scientists do agree violence is inherent in humans. Among prehistoric humans, there is archaeological evidence for both contentions of violence and peacefulness as primary characteristics.\n\nSince violence is a matter of perception as well as a measurable phenomenon, psychologists have found variability in whether people perceive certain physical acts as \"violent\". For example, in a state where execution is a legalized punishment we do not typically perceive the executioner as \"violent\", though we may talk, in a more metaphorical way, of the state acting violently. Likewise, understandings of violence are linked to a perceived aggressor-victim relationship: hence psychologists have shown that people may not recognise defensive use of force as violent, even in cases where the amount of force used is significantly greater than in the original aggression.\n\nThe \"violent male ape\" image is often brought up in discussions of human violence. Dale Peterson and Richard Wranghamin \"Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence\" write that violence is inherent in humans, though not inevitable.\nHowever, William L. Ury, editor of a book called \"Must We Fight? From the Battlefield to the Schoolyard—A New Perspective on Violent Conflict and Its Prevention\" criticizes the \"killer ape\" myth in his book which brings together discussions from two Harvard Law School symposiums. The conclusion is that \"we also have lots of natural mechanisms for cooperation, to keep conflict in check, to channel aggression, and to overcome conflict. These are just as natural to us as the aggressive tendencies.\"\n\nThe psychiatrist James Gilligan argues that most violent behavior represents an effort to eliminate feelings of shame and humiliation, which he calls \"the death of self\". The use of violence often is a source of pride and a defence of honor, especially among males who believe violence defines manhood.\n\nIn an article entitled \"The History of Violence\" in \"The New Republic\", Steven Pinker posits that, on average, the amount and cruelty of violence to humans and animals has decreased over the last few centuries.\n\nPinker's observation of the decline in interpersonal violence echoes the work of Norbert Elias, who attributes the decline to a \"civilizing process\", in which the state's monopolization of violence, the maintenance of socioeconomic interdependencies or \"figurations\", and the maintenance of behavioural codes in culture all contribute to the development of individual sensibilities, which increase the repugnance of individuals towards violent acts.\n\nSome scholars disagree with the argument that all violence is decreasing arguing that not all types of violent behaviour are lower now than in the past. They suggest that research typically focuses on lethal violence, often looks at homicide rates of death due to warfare, but ignore the less obvious forms of violence. However, non-lethal violence, such as assaults or bullying appear to be declining as well.\nIn his article \"The Coming Anarchy\", Robert D. Kaplan introduces the notion of liberating violence. According to Kaplan, we will observe more violent civil wars in the future, which will be fought due to economic inequalities around the world.\n\nThe concept of violence normalization, is known as socially sanctioned or structural violence, and is a topic of increasing interest to researchers trying to understand violent behavior. It has been discussed at length by researchers in sociology, medical anthropology, psychology, philosophy, and bioarchaeology.\n\nEvolutionary psychology offers several explanations for human violence in various contexts, such as sexual jealousy in humans, child abuse, and homicide. Goetz (2010) argues that humans are similar to most mammal species and use violence in specific situations. He writes that \"Buss and Shackelford (1997a) proposed seven adaptive problems our ancestors recurrently faced that might have been solved by aggression: co-opting the resources of others, defending against attack, inflicting costs on same-sex rivals, negotiating status and hierarchies, deterring rivals from future aggression, deterring mate from infidelity, and reducing resources expended on genetically unrelated children.\"\n\nGoetz writes that most homicides seem to start from relatively trivial disputes between unrelated men who then escalate to violence and death. He argues that such conflicts occur when there is a status dispute between men of relatively similar status. If there is a great initial status difference, then the lower status individual usually offers no challenge and if challenged the higher status individual usually ignores the lower status individual. At the same an environment of great inequalities between people may cause those at the bottom to use more violence in attempts to gain status.\n\nResearch into the media and violence examines whether links between consuming media violence and subsequent aggressive and violent behaviour exists. Although some scholars had claimed media violence may increase aggression, this view is coming increasingly in doubt both in the scholarly community and was rejected by the US Supreme Court in the Brown v EMA case, as well as in a review of video game violence by the Australian Government (2010) which concluded evidence for harmful effects were inconclusive at best and the rhetoric of some scholars was not matched by good data.\n\nThe threat and enforcement of physical punishment has been a tried and tested method of preventing some violence since civilisation began. It is used in various degrees in most countries.\n\nA review of scientific literature by the World Health Organization on the effectiveness of strategies to prevent interpersonal violence identified the seven strategies below as being supported by either strong or emerging evidence for effectiveness. These strategies target risk factors at all four levels of the ecological model.\n\nAmong the most effective such programmes to prevent child maltreatment and reduce childhood aggression are the Nurse Family Partnership home-visiting programme and the Triple P (Parenting Program). There is also emerging evidence that these programmes reduce convictions and violent acts in adolescence and early adulthood, and probably help decrease intimate partner violence and self-directed violence in later life.\n\nEvidence shows that the life skills acquired in social development programmes can reduce involvement in violence, improve social skills, boost educational achievement and improve job prospects. Life skills refer to social, emotional, and behavioural competencies which help children and adolescents effectively deal with the challenges of everyday life.\n\nEvaluation studies are beginning to support community interventions that aim to prevent violence against women by promoting gender equality. For instance, evidence suggests that programmes that combine microfinance with gender equity training can reduce intimate partner violence. School-based programmes such as Safe Dates programme in the United States of America and the Youth Relationship Project in Canada have been found to be effective for reducing dating violence.\n\nRules or expectations of behaviour – norms – within a cultural or social group can encourage violence. Interventions that challenge cultural and social norms supportive of violence can prevent acts of violence and have been widely used, but the evidence base for their effectiveness is currently weak. The effectiveness of interventions addressing dating violence and sexual abuse among teenagers and young adults by challenging social and cultural norms related to gender is supported by some evidence.\n\nInterventions to identify victims of interpersonal violence and provide effective care and support are critical for protecting health and breaking cycles of violence from one generation to the next. Examples for which evidence of effectiveness is emerging includes: screening tools to identify victims of intimate partner violence and refer them to appropriate services; psychosocial interventions – such as trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy – to reduce mental health problems associated with violence, including post-traumatic stress disorder; and protection orders, which prohibit a perpetrator from contacting the victim, to reduce repeat victimization among victims of intimate partner violence.\n\nNot surprisingly, scientific evidence about the effectiveness of interventions to prevent collective violence is lacking. However, policies that facilitate reductions in poverty, that make decision-making more accountable, that reduce inequalities between groups, as well as policies that reduce access to biological, chemical, nuclear and other weapons have been recommended. When planning responses to violent conflicts, recommended approaches include assessing at an early stage who is most vulnerable and what their needs are, co-ordination of activities between various players and working towards global, national and local capabilities so as to deliver effective health services during the various stages of an emergency.\n\nOne of the main functions of law is to regulate violence. Sociologist Max Weber stated that the state claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of force practised within the confines of a specific territory. Law enforcement is the main means of regulating nonmilitary violence in society. Governments regulate the use of violence through legal systems governing individuals and political authorities, including the police and military. Civil societies authorize some amount of violence, exercised through the police power, to maintain the status quo and enforce laws.\n\nHowever, German political theorist Hannah Arendt noted: \"Violence can be justifiable, but it never will be legitimate ... Its justification loses in plausibility the farther its intended end recedes into the future. No one questions the use of violence in self-defence, because the danger is not only clear but also present, and the end justifying the means is immediate\". Arendt made a clear distinction between violence and power. Most political theorists regarded violence as an extreme manifestation of power whereas Arendt regarded the two concepts as opposites.\nIn the 20th century in acts of democide governments may have killed more than 260 million of their own people through police brutality, execution, massacre, slave labour camps, and sometimes through intentional famine.\n\nViolent acts that are not carried out by the military or police and that are not in self-defense are usually classified as crimes, although not all crimes are violent crimes. Damage to property is classified as violent crime in some jurisdictions but not in all. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) classifies violence resulting in homicide into criminal homicide and justifiable homicide (e.g. self-defense).\n\nThe criminal justice approach sees its main task as enforcing laws that proscribe violence and ensuring that \"justice is done\". The notions of individual blame, responsibility, guilt, and culpability are central to criminal justice's approach to violence and one of the criminal justice system's main tasks is to \"do justice\", i.e. to ensure that offenders are properly identified, that the degree of their guilt is as accurately ascertained as possible, and that they are punished appropriately. To prevent and respond to violence, the criminal justice approach relies primarily on deterrence, incarceration and the punishment and rehabilitation of perpetrators.\n\nThe criminal justice approach, beyond justice and punishment, has traditionally emphasized indicated interventions, aimed at those who have already been involved in violence, either as victims or as perpetrators. One of the main reasons offenders are arrested, prosecuted, and convicted is to prevent further crimes – through deterrence (threatening potential offenders with criminal sanctions if they commit crimes), incapacitation (physically preventing offenders from committing further crimes by locking them up) and through rehabilitation (using time spent under state supervision to develop skills or change one's psychological make-up to reduce the likelihood of future offences).\n\nIn recent decades in many countries in the world, the criminal justice system has taken an increasing interest in preventing violence before it occurs. For instance, much of community and problem-oriented policing aims to reduce crime and violence by altering the conditions that foster it – and not to increase the number of arrests. Indeed, some police leaders have gone so far as to say the police should primarily be a crime prevention agency. Juvenile justice systems – an important component of criminal justice systems – are largely based on the belief in rehabilitation and prevention. In the US, the criminal justice system has, for instance, funded school- and community-based initiatives to reduce children's access to guns and teach conflict resolution. In 1974, the US Department of Justice assumed primary responsibility for delinquency prevention programmes and created the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, which has supported the \"Blueprints for violence prevention\" programme at the University of Colorado Boulder.\n\nThe public health approach is a science-driven, population-based, interdisciplinary, intersectoral approach based on the ecological model which emphasizes primary prevention. Rather than focusing on individuals, the public health approach aims to provide the maximum benefit for the largest number of people, and to extend better care and safety to entire populations. The public health approach is interdisciplinary, drawing upon knowledge from many disciplines including medicine, epidemiology, sociology, psychology, criminology, education and economics. Because all forms of violence are multi-faceted problems, the public health approach emphasizes a multi-sectoral response. It has been proved time and again that cooperative efforts from such diverse sectors as health, education, social welfare, and criminal justice are often necessary to solve what are usually assumed to be purely \"criminal\" or \"medical\" problems. The public health approach considers that violence, rather than being the result of any single factor, is the outcome of multiple risk factors and causes, interacting at four levels of a nested hierarchy (individual, close relationship/family, community and wider society) of the Social ecological model.\n\nFrom a public health perspective, prevention strategies can be classified into three types:\n\nA public health approach emphasizes the primary prevention of violence, i.e. stopping them from occurring in the first place. Until recently, this approach has been relatively neglected in the field, with the majority of resources directed towards secondary or tertiary prevention. Perhaps the most critical element of a public health approach to prevention is the ability to identify underlying causes rather than focusing upon more visible \"symptoms\". This allows for the development and testing of effective approaches to address the underlying causes and so improve health.\n\nThe public health approach is an evidence-based and systematic process involving the following four steps:\n\nIn many countries, violence prevention is still a new or emerging field in public health. The public health community has started only recently to realize the contributions it can make to reducing violence and mitigating its consequences. In 1949, Gordon called for injury prevention efforts to be based on the understanding of causes, in a similar way to prevention efforts for communicable and other diseases. In 1962, Gomez, referring to the WHO definition of health, stated that it is obvious that violence does not contribute to \"extending life\" or to a \"complete state of well-being\". He defined violence as an issue that public health experts needed to address and stated that it should not be the primary domain of lawyers, military personnel, or politicians.\n\nHowever, it is only in the last 30 years that public health has begun to address violence, and only in the last fifteen has it done so at the global level. This is a much shorter period of time than public health has been tackling other health problems of comparable magnitude and with similarly severe lifelong consequences.\n\nThe global public health response to interpersonal violence began in earnest in the mid-1990s. In 1996, the World Health Assembly adopted Resolution WHA49.25 which declared violence \"a leading worldwide public health problem\" and requested that the World Health Organization (WHO) initiate public health activities to (1) document and characterize the burden of violence, (2) assess the effectiveness of programmes, with particular attention to women and children and community-based initiatives, and (3) promote activities to tackle the problem at the international and national levels. The World Health Organization's initial response to this resolution was to create the Department of Violence and Injury Prevention and Disability and to publish the World report on violence and health (2002).\n\nThe case for the public health sector addressing interpersonal violence rests on four main arguments. First, the significant amount of time health care professionals dedicate to caring for victims and perpetrators of violence has made them familiar with the problem and has led many, particularly in emergency departments, to mobilize to address it. The information, resources, and infrastructures the health care sector has at its disposal are an important asset for research and prevention work. Second, the magnitude of the problem and its potentially severe lifelong consequences and high costs to individuals and wider society call for population-level interventions typical of the public health approach. Third, the criminal justice approach, the other main approach to addressing violence (link to entry above), has traditionally been more geared towards violence that occurs between male youths and adults in the street and other public places – which makes up the bulk of homicides in most countries – than towards violence occurring in private settings such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence and elder abuse – which makes up the largest share of non-fatal violence. Fourth, evidence is beginning to accumulate that a science-based public health approach is effective at preventing interpersonal violence.\n\nThe human rights approach is based on the obligations of states to respect, protect and fulfill human rights and therefore to prevent, eradicate and punish violence. It recognizes violence as a violation of many human rights: the rights to life, liberty, autonomy and security of the person; the rights to equality and non-discrimination; the rights to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment; the right to privacy; and the right to the highest attainable standard of health. These human rights are enshrined in international and regional treaties and national constitutions and laws, which stipulate the obligations of states, and include mechanisms to hold states accountable. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, for example, requires that countries party to the Convention take all appropriate steps to end violence against women. The Convention on the Rights of the Child in its Article 19 states that States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal guardian(s) or any other person who has the care of the child.\n\nViolence, as defined in the dictionary of human geography, \"appears whenever power is in jeopardy\" and \"in and of itself stands emptied of strength and purpose: it is part of a larger matrix of socio-political power struggles\". Violence can be broadly divided into three broad categories – direct violence, structural violence and cultural violence. Thus defined and delineated, it is of note, as Hyndman says, that \"geography came late to theorizing violence\" in comparison to other social sciences. Social and human geography, rooted in the humanist, Marxist, and feminist subfields that emerged following the early positivist approaches and subsequent behavioral turn, have long been concerned with social and spatial justice.\nAlong with critical geographers and political geographers, it is these groupings of geographers that most often interact with violence. Keeping this idea of social/spatial justice via geography in mind, it is worthwhile to look at geographical approaches to violence in the context of politics.\n\nDerek Gregory and Alan Pred assembled the influential edited collection \"Violent Geographies: Fear, Terror, and Political Violence\", which demonstrates how place, space, and landscape are foremost factors in the real and imagined practices of organized violence both historically and in the present. Evidently, political violence often gives a part for the state to play. When \"modern states not only claim a monopoly of the legitimate means of violence; they also routinely use the threat of violence to enforce the rule of law\", the law not only becomes a form of violence but is violence. Philosopher Giorgio Agamben's concepts of state of exception and \"homo sacer\" are useful to consider within a geography of violence. The state, in the grip of a perceived, potential crisis (whether legitimate or not) takes preventative legal measures, such as a suspension of rights (it is in this climate, as Agamben demonstrates, that the formation of the Social Democratic and Nazi government's lager or concentration camp can occur). However, when this \"in limbo\" reality is designed to be in place \"until further notice…the state of exception thus ceases to be referred to as an external and provisional state of factual danger and comes to be confused with juridical rule itself\". For Agamben, the physical space of the camp \"is a piece of land placed outside the normal juridical order, but it is nevertheless not simply an external space\". At the scale of the body, in the state of exception, a person is so removed from their rights by \"juridical procedures and deployments of power\" that \"no act committed against them could appear any longer as a crime\"; in other words, people become only \"homo sacer\". Guantanamo Bay could also be said to represent the physicality of the state of exception in space, and can just as easily draw man as homo sacer.\n\nIn the 1970s, genocides in Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot resulted in the deaths of over two million Cambodians (which was 25% of the Cambodian population), forming one of the many contemporary examples of state-sponsored violence. About fourteen thousand of these murders occurred at Choeung Ek, which is the best-known of the extermination camps referred to as the Killing Fields. The killings were arbitrary; for example, a person could be killed for wearing glasses, since that was seen as associating them with intellectuals and therefore as making them part of the enemy. People were murdered with impunity because it was no crime; Cambodians were made \"homo sacer\" in a condition of bare life. The Killing Fields—manifestations of Agamben's concept of camps beyond the normal rule of law—featured the state of exception. As part of Pol Pot's \"ideological intent…to create a purely agrarian society or cooperative\", he \"dismantled the country's existing economic infrastructure and depopulated every urban area\". Forced movement, such as this forced movement applied by Pol Pot, is a clear display of structural violence. When \"symbols of Cambodian society were equally disrupted, social institutions of every kind…were purged or torn down\", cultural violence (defined as when \"any aspect of culture such as language, religion, ideology, art, or cosmology is used to legitimize direct or structural violence\") is added to the structural violence of forced movement and to the direct violence, such as murder, at the Killing Fields. Vietnam eventually intervened and the genocide officially ended. However, ten million landmines left by opposing guerillas in the 1970s continue to create a violent landscape in Cambodia.\n\nHuman geography, though coming late to the theorizing table, has tackled violence through many lenses, including anarchist geography, feminist geography, Marxist geography, political geography, and critical geography. However, Adriana Cavarero notes that, \"as violence spreads and assumes unheard-of forms, it becomes difficult to name in contemporary language\". Cavarero proposes that, in facing such a truth, it is prudent to reconsider violence as \"horrorism\"; that is, \"as though ideally all the…victims, instead of their killers, ought to determine the name\". With geography often adding the forgotten spatial aspect to theories of social science, rather than creating them solely within the discipline, it seems that the self-reflexive contemporary geography of today may have an extremely important place in this current (re)imaging of violence, exemplified by Cavarero.\n\nAs of 2010, all forms of violence resulted in about 1.34 million deaths up from about 1 million in 1990. Suicide accounts for about 883,000, interpersonal violence for 456,000 and collective violence for 18,000. Deaths due to collective violence have decreased from 64,000 in 1990.\n\nBy way of comparison, the 1.5 millions deaths a year due to violence is greater than the number of deaths due to tuberculosis (1.34 million), road traffic injuries (1.21 million), and malaria (830'000), but slightly less than the number of people who die from HIV/AIDS (1.77 million).\n\nFor every death due to violence, there are numerous nonfatal injuries. In 2008, over 16 million cases of non-fatal violence-related injuries were severe enough to require medical attention. Beyond deaths and injuries, forms of violence such as child maltreatment, intimate partner violence, and elder maltreatment have been found to be highly prevalent.\n\nIn the last 45 years, suicide rates have increased by 60% worldwide. Suicide is among the three leading causes of death among those aged 15–44 years in some countries, and the second leading cause of death in the 10–24 years age group. These figures do not include suicide attempts which are up to 20 times more frequent than completed suicide. Suicide was the 16th leading cause of death worldwide in 2004 and is projected to increase to the 12th in 2030. Although suicide rates have traditionally been highest among the male elderly, rates among young people have been increasing to such an extent that they are now the group at highest risk in a third of countries, in both developed and developing countries.\n\nRates and patterns of violent death vary by country and region. In recent years, homicide rates have been highest in developing countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean and lowest in East Asia, the western Pacific, and some countries in northern Africa. Studies show a strong, inverse relationship between homicide rates and both economic development and economic equality. Poorer countries, especially those with large gaps between the rich and the poor, tend to have higher rates of homicide than wealthier countries. Homicide rates differ markedly by age and sex. Gender differences are least marked for children. For the 15 to 29 age group, male rates were nearly six times those for female rates; for the remaining age groups, male rates were from two to four times those for females.\n\nStudies in a number of countries show that, for every homicide among young people age 10 to 24, 20 to 40 other young people receive hospital treatment for a violent injury.\n\nForms of violence such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence are highly prevalent. Approximately 20% of women and 5–10% of men report being sexually abused as children, while 25–50% of all children report being physically abused. A WHO multi-country study found that between 15–71% of women reported experiencing physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner at some point in their lives.\n\nWars grab headlines, but the individual risk of dying violently in an armed conflict is today relatively low—much lower than the risk of violent death in many countries that are not suffering from an armed conflict. For example, between 1976 and 2008, African Americans were victims of 329,825 homicides. Although there is a widespread perception that war is the most dangerous form of armed violence in the world, the average person living in a conflict-affected country had a risk of dying violently in the conflict of about 2.0 per 100,000 population between 2004 and 2007. This can be compared to the average world homicide rate of 7.6 per 100,000 people. This illustration highlights the value of accounting for all forms of armed violence rather than an exclusive focus on conflict related violence. Certainly, there are huge variations in the risk of dying from armed conflict at the national and subnational level, and the risk of dying violently in a conflict in specific countries remains extremely high. In Iraq, for example, the direct conflict death rate for 2004–07 was 65 per 100,000 people per year and, in Somalia, 24 per 100,000 people. This rate even reached peaks of 91 per 100,000 in Iraq in 2006 and 74 per 100,000 in Somalia in 2007.\n\nOrganized, large-scale, militaristic, or regular human-on-human violence was absent for the vast majority of the human timeline, and is first documented to have started only relatively recently in the Holocene, an epoch that began about 11,700 years ago, probably with the advent of higher population densities due to sedentism. Social anthropologist Douglas P. Fry writes that scholars are divided on the origins of this greater degree of violence—in other words, war-like behavior: \n\nJared Diamond in his books \"Guns, Germs and Steel\" and \"The Third Chimpanzee\" posits that the rise of large-scale warfare is the result of advances in technology and city-states. For instance, the rise of agriculture provided a significant increase in the number of individuals that a region could sustain over hunter-gatherer societies, allowing for development of specialized classes such as soldiers, or weapons manufacturers.\n\nIn academia, the idea of the peaceful pre-history and non-violent tribal societies gained popularity with the post-colonial perspective. The trend, starting in archaeology and spreading to anthropology reached its height in the late half of the 20th century. However, some newer research in archaeology and bioarchaeology may provide evidence that violence within and among groups is not a recent phenomenon. According to the book \"The Bioarchaeology of Violence\" violence is a behavior that is found throughout human history.\n\nLawrence H. Keeley at the University of Illinois writes in \"War Before Civilization\" that 87% of tribal societies were at war more than once per year, and that 65% of them were fighting continuously. He writes that the attrition rate of numerous close-quarter clashes, which characterize endemic warfare, produces casualty rates of up to 60%, compared to 1% of the combatants as is typical in modern warfare. \"Primitive Warfare\" of these small groups or tribes was driven by the basic need for sustenance and violent competition.\n\nFry explores Keeley's argument in depth and counters that such sources erroneously focus on the ethnography of hunters and gatherers in the present, whose culture and values have been infiltrated externally by modern civilization, rather than the actual archaeological record spanning some two million years of human existence. Fry determines that all present ethnographically studied tribal societies, \"by the very fact of having been described and published by anthropologists, have been irrevocably impacted by history and modern colonial nation states\" and that \"many have been affected by state societies for at least 5000 years.\"\n\nSteven Pinker's 2011 book, \"The Better Angels of Our Nature\", roused both acclaim and controversy by asserting that modern society is less violent than in periods of the past, whether on the short scale of decades or long scale of centuries or millennia.\n\nSteven Pinker argues that by every possible measure, every type of violence has drastically decreased since ancient and medieval times. A few centuries ago, for example, genocide was a standard practice in all kinds of warfare and was so common that historians did not even bother to mention it. According to Pinker, rape, murder, warfare and animal cruelty have all seen drastic declines in the 20th century. However, Pinker's analyses have met with much criticism; for example, Pinker himself, on his FAQ page, states that he does not include catastrophic ecological violence (including violence against wild or domesticated non-human animals or plants, or against ecosystems) or the violence of economic inequality and of coercive working conditions in his definition; he controversially regards these forms of violence as \"metaphorical\". Some critics have therefore argued that Pinker suffers from \"a reductive vision of what it means to be violent.\"\n\nBeyond deaths and injuries, highly prevalent forms of violence (such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence) have serious lifelong non-injury health consequences. Victims may engage in high-risk behaviours such as alcohol and substance misuse and smoking, which in turn can contribute to cardiovascular disorders, cancers, depression, diabetes and HIV/AIDS, resulting in premature death Violence may beget violence. The balances of prevention, mitigation, mediation and exacerbation are complex, and vary with the underpinnings of violence.\n\nIn countries with high levels of violence, economic growth can be slowed down, personal and collective security eroded, and social development impeded. Families edging out of poverty and investing in schooling their sons and daughters can be ruined through the violent death or severe disability of the main breadwinner. Communities can be caught in poverty traps where pervasive violence and deprivation form a vicious circle that stifles economic growth. For societies, meeting the direct costs of health, criminal justice, and social welfare responses to violence diverts many billions of dollars from more constructive societal spending. The much larger indirect costs of violence due to lost productivity and lost investment in education work together to slow economic development, increase socioeconomic inequality, and erode human and social capital.\n\nAdditionally, communities with high level of violence do not provide the level of stability and predictability vital for a prospering business economy. Individuals will be less likely to invest money and effort towards growth in such unstable and violent conditions.\n\nIn 2016, the Institute for Economics and Peace, released the Economic Value of Peace report, which estimates the economic impact of violence and conflict on the global economy, the total economic impact of violence on the world economy in 2015 was estimated to be $13.6 trillion in purchasing power parity terms.\n\nReligious and political ideologies have been the cause of interpersonal violence throughout history. Ideologues often falsely accuse others of violence, such as the ancient blood libel against Jews, the medieval accusations of casting witchcraft spells against women, and modern accusations of satanic ritual abuse against day care center owners and others.\n\nBoth supporters and opponents of the 21st-century War on Terrorism regard it largely as an ideological and religious war.\n\nVittorio Bufacchi describes two different modern concepts of violence, one the \"minimalist conception\" of violence as an intentional act of excessive or destructive force, the other the \"comprehensive conception\" which includes violations of rights, including a long list of human needs.\n\nAnti-capitalists assert that capitalism is violent. They believe private property and profit survive only because police violence defends them and that capitalist economies need war to expand. They may use the term \"structural violence\" to describe the systematic ways in which a given social structure or institution kills people slowly by preventing them from meeting their basic needs, for example the deaths caused by diseases because of lack of medicine.\n\nFrantz Fanon critiqued the violence of colonialism and wrote about the counter violence of the \"colonized victims.\"\n\nThroughout history, most religions and individuals like Mahatma Gandhi have preached that humans are capable of eliminating individual violence and organizing societies through purely nonviolent means. Gandhi himself once wrote: \"A society organized and run on the basis of complete non-violence would be the purest anarchy.\" Modern political ideologies which espouse similar views include pacifist varieties of voluntarism, mutualism, anarchism and libertarianism.\n\nTerence Fretheim writing about the Old Testament:\nFor many people, ... only physical violence truly qualifies as violence. But, certainly, violence is more than killing people, unless one includes all those words and actions that kill people slowly. The effect of limitation to a “killing fields” perspective is the widespread neglect of many other forms of violence. We must insist that violence also refers to that which is psychologically destructive, that which demeans, damages, or depersonalizes others. In view of these considerations, violence may be defined as follows: any action, verbal or nonverbal, oral or written, physical or psychical, active or passive, public or private, individual or institutional/societal, human or divine, in whatever degree of intensity, that abuses, violates, injures, or kills. Some of the most pervasive and most dangerous forms of violence are those that are often hidden from view (against women and children, especially); just beneath the surface in many of our homes, churches, and communities is abuse enough to freeze the\nblood. Moreover, many forms of systemic violence often slip past our attention because they are so much a part of the infrastructure of life (e.g., racism, sexism, ageism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44863804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44863804", "title": "Vyuha", "text": "Vyuha\n\nVyūha (Sanskrit: व्यूह) means - 'to arrange troops in a battle array (formation)', 'to arrange, put or place in order, to dispose, separate, divide, alter, transpose, disarrange, resolve (vowels syllables etc.)'. Its root is व्यः which means - a 'cover' or 'veil'. This word also refers to emanation and to the manifest power of Lord Vishnu. It has different meanings depending on the doctrine of the treatise and the context, such as revealing of the knowledge of Vedas, manifestation of Vishnu or Buddha, and the war formations of Mahabharata.\n\nIn the Upanishads the word \"vyuha\" occurs once, it appears in śloka 16 of the Isha Upanishad :-\n\nIn this passage \"vyūha\" means – 'remove' (to a distance thy rays). The sage declares that the Truth is concealed in the Vedas, covered by a golden lid or vessel Badarayana, by declaring – उत्पत्त्यसम्भवात् (Owing to the impossibility of origin) - Brahma Sutras (II.ii.42) refutes the Bhagavata view that the \"Chatur-vyūha\" forms originate successively from Vasudeva, for any origin for the soul is impossible, an implement cannot originate from its agent who wields it. Whereas in a \"vyūha\" an army re-sets its different able warriors and weaponry into a specific arrangement as per battle demands, the Supreme Being re-sets the contents of consciousness through yogamaya with each formation concealing yet another formation. The five layers of matter (\"prakrti\") that constitute the human body are the five sheaths (\"panchakosa\"), one moves inwards from the visible layers through more refined invisible layers in search of own true self.\n\nThe Pāñcarātra Āgama, which are based on \"Ekāyana\" recension of the Śukla Yajurveda, is later than the Vedas but earlier than the Mahabharata, the main \"āgamas\" are- the \"Vaiśnava\" (worship of Vishnu), the \"Śaiva\" (worship of Shiva) and the \"Śākta\" (worship of Devi or Shakti) \"āgamas\"; all \"āgamas\" are elaborate systems of Vedic knowledge. According to Vedanta Desika, the \"Pāñcarātra āgama\" teaches the five-fold daily religious duty consisting of – \"abhigamana\", \"upādāna\", \"ijyā\", \"svādhyāya\" and \"yoga\", the name of this \"āgama\" is derived on account of its description of the five-fold manifestation of the Supreme Being viz, \"para\" (supreme or the transcendental form), \"vyūha\" (formation or manifestation as the four \"vyūha\"), \"vibhava\" (reincarnation or descent to earth as avtāra), \"arcā\" (the visible image of God) and \"antaryāmi\" (the cosmic form of God as existing everywhere and in everything). Lakshmi accompanies Vishnu in His \"vyūha\" manifestation which is four-fold (\"Chatur-vyūha\") – Vāsudeva (as the creator), Samkarśana (as the sustainer), Pradyumna (as destroyer - dissolution of the universe) and Aniruddha (as promulgator of spiritual knowledge). This is the \"Vaiśnava\" doctrine of \"Vyūha\" or \"the doctrine of formation\".\n\nThe Chatur-vyūha forms of Vishnu are related to four of the six causes of creation which six are God Himself as the final cause of creation and His five aspects – Narāyana ('thinking'), Vāsudeva ('feeling'), Samkarśana ('willing'), Pradyumna ('knowing') and Aniruddha ('acting') successively; each divinity controls its specific creative energy. The six gunas – \" jnana \" (omniscience), \" aishvarya \" (lordship), \" shakti \" (potency), \" bala \" (force), \" virya \" (virtue) and \"tejas\" (self-sufficiency), acting in pairs and in totality, are the instruments and the subtle material of pure creation. \"Vyūhas\" are the first beings created, and they represent the effective parts of a coherent whole. Here, \"vyūha\" means – projection; the projection of the \"svarūpa\" ('own form') as \"bahurūpa\" ('manifest variously').\n\nOne of the five Dhyāni Buddhas, Amitābha, who does not appear in any Pali Buddhist text or in Sanskrit Buddhist text, and his active manifestation in Bodhisttava form, Avalokiteśvara, are known through the two-versioned Mahāyāna Buddhist sūtra Sukhāvatī-vyūha ('Array of the Land of Bliss') which text pertains to Gautama Buddha’s recollection of one of his previous births as Amitābha, as told to Ānanda, who was also told about 81 Buddhas of the past, the last named being Lokeśvararāja who taught Dharmākara who having practiced the virtues of a Bodhisttava and attained enlightenment was reborn as Amitābha whose land this text describes. According to Mahāyāna Buddhism, the word \"vyūha\" means – 'arrangement', the like of marvellous, supernatural, magical arrangements, or supernatural manifestations.\n\nThe Mahabharata and the Manu Samhita list by name and formation many \"vyūhas\" ('battle formations'), some were small in size and others, gigantic, such as:\n\n"}
