{"id": "48846693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48846693", "title": "2015 Geldermalsen riot", "text": "2015 Geldermalsen riot\n\nThe 2015 Geldermalsen riot was a riot in the Dutch town of Geldermalsen on 16 December 2015 in protest of plans announced by the town council to construct a centre for 1,500 asylum seekers.\n\nOn 16 December 2015, around 2,000 people in Geldermalsen protested and rioted outside the town hall as the town announced plans to build an asylum centre and accept 1,500 asylum seekers in light of the European migrant crisis.\n\nProtesters attempted to storm the town hall while throwing beer bottles, fireworks and stones were thrown at it and police, as politicians discussed the plans. Several protesters, two police officers and a businesswoman inside the city hall suffered injuries during the riot. Fourteen protesters were reported to have been arrested in the riots.\n\nDutch politicians have characterised the riot as \"unacceptable\" and \"un-Dutch\".\n\nIt was later announced that the plans of constructing an asylum centre in the town had been scrapped, with the town council taking self-criticism for the speed of the decision process and the scale of the plans.\n\nProtests and riots have erupted in several Dutch towns and villages since 2015 in protest of plans to take in record numbers of migrants. In January 2016, in Heesch, 1000 protesters rioted after plans to take in 500 asylum seekers in the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "1694303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1694303", "title": "Adultism", "text": "Adultism\n\nAdultism is \"the power adults have over children\". More narrowly, adultism is defined as \"prejudice and accompanying systematic discrimination against young people\". On a more philosophical basis, the term has also been defined as \"bias towards adults... and the social addiction to adults, including their ideas, activities, and attitudes\".\n\nThe word adultism was used by Patterson Du Bois in 1903, and appears in French psychology literature in 1929, describing the influence of adults over children. It was seen as a condition wherein a child possessed adult-like \"physique and spirit\", and was exemplified by,\n\nThis definition was superseded by a late 1970s journal article proposing that adultism is the abuse of the power that adults have over children. The author identified examples of adultism not only in parents but in teachers, psychotherapists, the clergy, police, judges, and juries.\n\nAdultism is defined as the \"behaviors and attitudes based on the assumptions that adults are better than young people, and entitled to act upon young people without agreement\". It is also seen as, \"an addiction to the attitudes, ideas, beliefs, and actions of adults.\" Adultism is popularly used to describe any discrimination against young people and is distinguished from ageism, which is simply prejudice on the grounds of age; not specifically against youth. Adultism is ostensibly caused by fear of children and youth. It has been suggested that 'adultism, which is associated with a view of the self that trades on rejecting and excluding child-subjectivity, has always been present in Western culture'.\n\nFletcher suggests that adultism has three main expressions throughout society:\n\nA study by the Crisis Prevention Institute of the prevalence of adultism found an increasing number of local youth-serving organizations addressing the issue. For instance, a local program in Oakland, California, describes the impact of adultism, which \"hinders the development of youth, in particular, their self-esteem and self-worth, ability to form positive relationships with caring adults, or even see adults as allies\", on their website.\n\nAdultism is used to describe the oppression of children and young people by adults, which is seen as having the same power dimension in the lives of young people as racism and sexism. It is treated as a generalization of paternalism, allowing for the broad force of adulthood beyond males, and may be witnessed in the infantalization of children and youth. Pedophobia (the fear of children) and ephebiphobia (the fear of youth) have been proposed as the antecedents to adultism. Tokophobia, the fear of childbirth, may also be a precursor; gerontophobia, or its antonym, gerontocracy, may be extensions of adultism.\n\nSimilar terms such as adult privilege, adultarchy, and adultcentrism have been proposed as alternatives which are more morphologically parallel. Some activists alternatively call adultism \"youthism,\" or \"childism\" equating it to sexism and heterosexism. The opposite of adultism is jeunism, which is defined as the preference of young people and adolescents over adults.\n\nAt least one prominent organization describes discrimination against youth as ageism, which is any form of discrimination against anyone due to their age. The National Youth Rights Association argues that ageism is a more natural and understandable term than adultism and thus is more commonly used among the young people affected by this discrimination. Advocates of using 'ageism' also believe it makes common cause with older people fighting against their own form of age discrimination. However, a national organization called Youth On Board counters this, arguing that \"addressing adultist behavior by calling it ageism is discrimination against youth in itself.\"\n\nIn his seminal 1978 article, Flasher explained that adultism is born of the belief that children are inferior, professing that adultism can be manifested as excessive nurturing, possessiveness, or over-restrictiveness, all of which are consciously or unconsciously geared toward excessive control of a child. It has been associated with psychological projection and splitting, a process whereby 'the one with the power attributes his or her unconscious, unresolved sexual and aggressive material' to the child – 'both the dark and the light side...hence the divine child/deficit child' split.\n\nRecently, theologians Heather Eaton and Matthew Fox proposed, \"Adultism derives from adults repressing the inner child.\" John Holt stated, \"An understanding of adultism might begin to explain what I mean when I say that much of what is known as children's art is an adult invention.\" That perspective is seemingly supported by Maya Angelou, who remarked:\n\nA 2006/2007 survey conducted by the Children's Rights Alliance for England and the National Children's Bureau asked 4,060 children and young people whether they have ever been treated unfairly based on various criteria (race, age, sex, sexual orientation, etc.). A total of 43% of British youth surveyed reported experiencing discrimination based on their age, substantially more than other categories of discrimination like sex (27%), race (11%), or sexual orientation (6%).\n\nIn addition to Fletcher, other experts have identified multiple forms of adultism, offering a typology that includes internalized adultism, institutionalized adultism, cultural adultism, and other forms.\n\nIn a publication published by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, University of Michigan professor Barry Checkoway asserts that internalized adultism causes youth to \"question their own legitimacy, doubt their ability to make a difference\" and perpetuate a \"culture of silence\" among young people.\n\n\"Adultism convinces us as children that children don't really count,\" reports an investigative study, and it \"becomes extremely important to us [children] to have the approval of adults and be 'in good' with them, even if it means betraying our fellow children. This aspect of internalized adultism leads to such phenomena as tattling on our siblings or being the 'teacher's pet,' to name just two examples.\"\n\nOther examples of internalized adultism include many forms of violence imposed upon children and youth by adults who are reliving the violence they faced as young people, such as corporal punishment, sexual abuse, verbal abuse, and community incidents that include store policies prohibiting youth from visiting shops without adults, and police, teachers, or parents chasing young people from areas without just cause.\n\nInstitutional adultism may be apparent in any instance of systemic bias, where formalized limitations or demands are placed on people simply because of their young age. Policies, laws, rules, organizational structures, and systematic procedures each serve as mechanisms to leverage, perpetuate, and instill adultism throughout society. These limitations are often reinforced through physical force, coercion or police actions and are often seen as double-standards. This treatment is increasingly seen as a form of gerontocracy.\n\nInstitutions perpetuating adultism may include the fiduciary, legal, educational, communal, religious, and governmental sectors of a community. Social science literature has identified adultism as \"within the context of the social inequality and the oppression of children, where children are denied human rights and are disproportionately victims of maltreatment and exploitation.\"\n\n\"See also:\"\n\n\"as well as:\"\n\nCultural adultism is a much more ambiguous, yet much more prevalent, form of discrimination or intolerance towards youth. Any restriction or exploitation of people because of their young age, as opposed to their ability, comprehension, or capacity, may be said to be adultist. These restrictions are often attributed to euphemisms afforded to adults on the basis of age alone, such as \"better judgment\" or \"the wisdom of age\". A parenting magazine editor comments, \"Most of the time people talk differently to kids than to adults, and often they act differently, too.\" This summarizes cultural adultism. For examples see:\n\nDiscrimination against age is increasingly recognized as a form of bigotry in social and cultural settings around the world. An increasing number of social institutions are acknowledging the positions of children and teenagers as an oppressed minority group. Many youth are rallying against the adultist myths spread through mass media from the 1970s through the 1990s.\nResearch compiled from two sources (a Cornell University nationwide study, and a Harvard University study on youth) has shown that social stratification between age groups causes stereotyping and generalization; for instance, the media-perpetuated myth that all adolescents are immature, violent and rebellious. Opponents of adultism contend that this has led to growing number of youth, academics, researchers, and other adults rallying against adultism and ageism, such as organizing education programs, protesting statements, and creating organizations devoted to publicizing the concept and addressing it.\n\nSimultaneously, research shows that young people who struggle against adultism within community organizations have a high rate of impact upon said agencies, as well as their peers, the adults who work with them, and the larger community to which the organization belongs\n\nThere may be many negative effects of adultism, including ephebiphobia and a growing generation gap. A reactive social response to adultism takes the form of the children's rights movement, led by young people who strike against being exploited for their labor. Numerous popular outlets are employed to strike out against adultism, particularly music and movies. Additionally, many youth-led social change efforts have inherently responded to adultism, particularly those associated with youth activism and student activism, each of which in their own respects have struggled with the effects of institutionalized and cultural adultism.\n\nA growing number of governmental, academic, and educational institutions around the globe have created policy, conducted studies, and created publications that respond to many of the insinuations and implications of adultism. Much of popular researcher Margaret Mead's work can be said to be a response to adultism. Current researchers whose work analyzes the effects of adultism include sociologist Mike Males and critical theorist Henry Giroux. The topic has recently been addressed in liberation psychology literature, as well.\n\nAny inanimate or animate exhibition of adultism is said to be \"adultist\". This may include behaviors, policies, practices, institutions, or individuals.\n\nEducator John Holt proposed that teaching adults about adultism is a vital step to addressing the effects of adultism, and at least one organization and one curriculum do just that. Several educators have created curricula that seek to teach youth about adultism, as well. Currently, organizations responding to the negative effects of adultism include the United Nations, which has conducted a great deal of research in addition to recognizing the need to counter adultism through policy and programs. The CRC has particular Articles (5 and 12) which are specifically committed to combating adultism. The international organization Human Rights Watch has done the same.\n\nCommon practice accepts the engagement of youth voice and the formation of youth-adult partnerships as essential steps to resisting adultism.\n\nSome ways to challenge adultism also include youth-led programming and participating in youth-led organizations. These are both ways of children stepping up and taking action to call out the bias towards adults. Youth-led programming allows the voices of the youth to be heard and taken into consideration. Taking control of their autonomy can help children take control of their sexuality, as well. Moving away from an adultist framework leads to moving away from the idea that children aren't capable of handling information about sex and their own sexuality. Accepting that children are ready to learn about themselves will decrease the amount of misinformation spread to them by their peers and allow them to receive accurate information from individuals educated on the topic.\n\nIn its most extreme form, the target of the advocates of addressing adultism is \"the more or less conscious, uncontrolled, and covert exercise of power over the child by the adult ... this wielding of power by adults\" \"per se\". Such an attack on \"any\" adult power may be fuelled by what has been called \"the \"homunculus\" idea about children ... to many grown-ups a child is a Small Adult. They do not understand that a child carries different kinds of problems than an adult does\".\n\nIn its milder form, \"adultism is about the misuse of power and does not refer to the normal responsibilities of adults in relation to children\". Therefore, \"addressing adultism is not about reversing the power structure ... [or] completely eradicating it\": rather, \"shedding adultism involves a negotiation of decisions\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43214450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43214450", "title": "Angel Bogdanovich", "text": "Angel Bogdanovich\n\nAngel Ivanovich Bogdanovich (, October 14 [o.s. 2], 1860, Vitebsk Governorate, Russian Empire (modern Belarus) - April 6 [o.s. March 24], 1907, Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire) was a Russian literary critic, publicist and social activist, originally a narodnik, later an active member of the Legal Marxists' political group.\n\nAngel Bogdanovich was born in Vitebsk, an heir to a noble family of the Polish and Lithuanian origins. In 1880 he enrolled into the Kiev University. As a student of the medical faculty, he became a member of a Narodnik political circle, was expelled and got deported to the Nizny Novgorod governorate. There he became friends with Vladimir Korolenko and started contributing to several Privolzhye journals. In 1887 he moved to Kazan, there he edited the \"Volzhsky Vesnik\" newspaper. In 1893, now a Saint Petersburg resident, he founded there Narodnoye Pravo (People's Right) group and issued its political program in a brochure called \"Nasushchny Vopros\" (A Vital Question, 1894).\n\nIn the mid-1890s Bogdanovich drifted away from Narodniks and became a member of the Legal Marxists group. In the early 1890s Bogdanovich regularly contributed to \"Russkoye Bogatstvo\", in 1894-1906 was a co-editor of and a key figure in \"Mir Bozhiy\". In 1906 \"Mir Bozhiy\" was closed but re-emerged as \"Sovremenny Mir\" (Modern World) and for a year Bogdanovich was its editor.\n\nAngel Bogdanovich died in Saint Petersburg on April 6, 1907.\n"}
{"id": "44239290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44239290", "title": "Bornholm's Self-Government Party", "text": "Bornholm's Self-Government Party\n\nBornholm's Self-Government Party () is a local political party in Denmark, which seeks to establish the independence or autonomy of Bornholm, a small island in the Baltic Sea with a population of slightly below 40,000 people. Founded in the 1990s, the party has seen only minor successes, securing at most a few hundred votes at a time.\n\nBornholm forms part of the ancient Lands of Denmark, many of which were originally petty kingdoms or chiefdoms. It's the official stance of the Bornholm's Self-Government Party that the island was governed by its own petty king during the Viking Age. Regardless, Bornholm ended up hotly contested ground between different Danish factions, and the site of frequent battles. During the 16th century, starting 1525, the island was pawned to Lübeck for 50 years. From 1624 and on it had its own militia, \"Bornholms Milits\". Ceded to Sweden – together with Scania, to which it belonged, along with other provinces such as Bohuslän – in the 1658 Treaty of Roskilde, the island's population threw out the Swedes the same year. As a reward for returning to King Frederick III, Bornholm received a promise never to be ceded again. First occupied by Nazi Germany during the Second World War, Bornholm saw heavy damage during the war, and was also occupied by the Soviet Union until 1946.\n\nSince the Second World War, Bornholm has seen a demographic decline, with a large drop in population numbers and birth rates, as well as employment issues. Due to these issues, and in response to the taxes paid by Bornholm to the central government, the master builder Tonny Borrinjaland founded Bornholm's Self-Government Party in the early 1990s. It has since participated in six municipal elections, gaining 299 votes in the 2009 elections and 190 votes in 2013.\n\nDuring the run-up to the September 2014 Scottish independence referendum, 2014, the party expressed its sympathies for the cause of Scottish independence, and stated that it had a lot to learn from the Scots. Party leader Borrinjaland also pointed to Malta and Singapore as two other models that Bornholm should learn from.\n\nStrongly in favour of preserving the endangered Bornholmsk dialect, Borrinjaland has gone as far as to translate the New Testament to the local language. Commenting on his views regarding Bornholmsk, he stated: \"Today, it is almost forbidden to talk Bornholmsk in kindergartens and schools on the island. That has Denmark with pure dictatorship taken care since many years. It's scandalous, I mean. Therefore, we must ensure that children learn the language, so they at least can choose whether to speak Bornholmsk or not.\" Borrinjaland was also purportedly behind the launch of the flag of Bornholm, a red and green Nordic Cross flag designed by a local painter and published in a local newspaper in 1975.\n\n"}
{"id": "52840235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52840235", "title": "Corruption in Guinea-Bissau", "text": "Corruption in Guinea-Bissau\n\nCorruption in Guinea-Bissau is among the highest levels in the world. In Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index for 2014, it was ranked 161st out of 175 countries. The previous year, it was at 163rd out of 177 countries. This marked a decline from its 2012 ranking, 150th out of 174 countries. In 2013, Guinea-Bissau scored below the averages for both Africa and West Africa on the Mo Ibrahim Foundation’s Index of African Governance.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation stated that corruption is characteristic of the Bissau-Guinean government and economy. Government mismanagement in Guinea-Bissau, according to Transparency International's 2014 report on the country, has “created an environment conducive to corruption on a grand scale.” There is a culture of impunity, and citizens have no right to access information.\n\nMuch of the corruption in Guinea-Bissau is related to the fact that the country is a hub of international drug trafficking. “Abject poverty, state collapse, lack of means and endemic corruption,” states one source, “have made Guinea Bissau a heaven for the Colombian drug lords.”\n\nA Transparency International report on Guinea-Bissau notes the systemic instability and mismanagement of the government, as testified to by the fact that none of its presidents has ever completed an entire term in office.\n\nA former Portuguese colony and “one of the most fragile states in Africa,” the nation won its independence in 1974 and has experienced several coups in the decades since then.\n\nIn recent times, low economic growth has made it difficult for government officials to manage patronage networks and compensate cronies, thus feeding the growth of other forms of illegal self-enrichment, notably trafficking in drugs and weapons. These trafficking networks have made the country a hub for illegal commerce.\n\nThere was some improvement in corruption between 2008 and 2011. Then, in 2012, the government was overthrown in a military coup, which brought an end to attempts to curb corruption and introduce other reforms. In 2014, voters elected José Mário Vaz to the presidency.\n\nThe country has been a drug-trafficking hub since around the turn of the 21st century, and many of its political and military leaders are deeply involved in the drug trade. Illegal narcotics from Latin America make their way to Europe by way of Guinea-Bissau, which the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) considers the world's only “narco-state.” As of 2007, Colombian drug cartels had, for the past three years, been using Guinea-Bissau as a major transit point for European trafficking. At that time, according to the US DEA, 800-1000 kg of cocaine were being flown nightly into Guinea-Bissau with an additional amount coming in by sea.\n\nLatin American cocaine barons, \"Der Spiegel\" has explained, look for corrupt nations in convenient geographic locations, as ideal for trafficking drugs. Authorities in Guinea-Bissau who seek to curb the drug traffic lack the most basic equipment, such as vehicles and radios, and often have insufficient gasoline supplies. The country has no able or willing force for law and order, creating the ideal hub for narco-trafficking. It also has poorly enforced border, unmonitored airfields, and a weak civilian government. In addition, it virtually never extradites anyone, as evidenced by the case of murderer and hijacker George Wright, who after his conviction in the U.S. worked for years in Guinea-Bissau as a basketball coach.\n\nThe government's fiscal operations are characterized by a lack of transparency, of predictability, of budgeting control, collusion among government and key personnel, and of external controls over public spending. High-ranking officials in the country have accumulated “unprecedented wealth and influence” and enjoy a high degree of impunity.\n\nPolitical corruption consists largely of involvement in narcotics trafficking. This involvement, according to Transparency International, has overhauled patronage systems in Guinea-Bissau, ultimately lessening the state's role in corruption scheme, weakening the government as a whole.\n\nUnder the constitution, the President has extremely broad powers, including lawmaking authority and the ability to appoint judges. This makes it easy for him to abuse his power and accumulate wealth at the expense of the people. Critics have argued that the president's power should be limited in specific ways while the prime minister's, parliament's, attorney general's, the judiciary’s powers are strengthened and reinforced. Critics have also called for a merit-based civil service.\n\nGuinea-Bissau's security and law-enforcement sectors are vulnerable to corruption and interference by politicians. Inadequate pay scales for members of the police and correctional services make them more vulnerable to corruption. Criminality and brutality among Bissau-Guinean security forces are well documented, as are cases of senior officials bypassing police authority by releasing prisoners and confiscating cocaine. An unclear situation involving jurisdiction results in institutional conflicts, especially where criminal investigations are concerned.\n\nMembers of the police, security forces, and military are all involved in aiding and abetting the drug trade. For example, the military is engaged in leasing airbases and naval yards to drug traffickers, who have also rented islands to build front companies to mask plane movements. Also, the drug trade has helped breed a culture of intimidation and violence within the military.\n\nThe judiciary lacks adequate resources and training and also lacks independence. It does not pursue corruption charges. No one in the country has ever been prosecuted for or convicted of money laundering. The public largely distrusts the nation's court system, due to the high costs of seeking justice and the lack of ethics, that leads people to solve disputes outside the legal system.\n\nJudicial corruption is a discouragement to business, according to roughly a quarter of companies that responded a World Bank 2006 Enterprise Survey. A 2001 Amnesty International report suggested that the dismissal of several Supreme Court judges and clerks were related to judicial decisions that displeased the government.\n\nIn a 2006 World Bank survey, 44% of firms said that corruption was a major hinderance to business. In 2008, 27.6% of firms in Guinea-Bissau had been asked for bribes at least once; in Africa as a whole, the figure was 22.3%, and in the entire world, the figure was 17.4%. In the same year, fully 48.9% of firms in Guinea-Bissau said they had given “gifts” to win government contracts, as compared to 31.1% of firms in Africa generally. Almost two-thirds of firms in the country said they had been expected to bribe public officials in order to accomplish certain ends. For manufacturers operating in Guinea-Bissau, bribes could reach up to 4.4% of costs.\n\nGuinea-Bissau has few institutions or laws that are intended to fight corruption. Like other countries in Francophone Africa, it lacks a formal ethics code, has an inadequate number of external auditors, and has weak quality control.\n\nThe Committee Against Corruption, created in 1995, was intended to address and prevent acts of corruption within the government and elsewhere. The Court of Accounts, the leading audit institution, was introduced in 2006 to audit the accounts and budget of the Ministry of Finance. Guinea-Bissau has ratified several United Nations Conventions combatting corruption as well as the African Union’s Convention on Corruption. In 2008, Guinea-Bissau was found to be non-compliant with 34 of the 49 Financial Action Task Force (FATF) statutes, which cover such matters as due diligence and the criminalization of terrorism financing.\n\nIn 2009, the country reformed its procurement system in conformity with West African Economic Monetary Union guidelines.This reform involved the establishment of a new regulatory body, the formation of a public procurement department, the institution of an audit unit to vet the central unit's procurement transactions, and the introduction of a new procurement infrastructure.\n\nA new system for managing public expenditure, instituted in or shortly before 2010, helped control government expenses by obliging every government office to submit an annual budget and progress reports to parliament. As of 2011, the country planned a comprehensive set of anti-corruption reforms. After the 2012 military coup, however, reform efforts were ended.\n\nSome drug arrests have been made, including arrests of military officials, but defendants have not been successfully prosecuted. In March 2012, former Procurator General announced investigations into the murders of President João Vieira and the Commander of the military, General Tagme Na Waie, had halted due to difficulty in gathering evidence.\n\nIn August 2015, President Jose Mario Vaz dismissed Prime Minister Domingos Pereira and the members of his cabinet, accusing them of corruption, nepotism, and obstruction of justice. The UN and GIABA helped establish Guinea-Bissau’s Financial Intelligence Unit, but its resources are too limited for it to be able to exercise its functions.\n\nIn April 2013, the US arrested the head of Guinea-Bissau's navy in international waters on drug-trafficking charges. He was receiving commissions of $1 million per ton for facilitating the shipment of illicit drugs into the US and Europe.\n\nIn the same year, a US grand jury indicted the head of Guinea-Bissau's armed forces for trafficking cocaine and weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "32380124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32380124", "title": "Debt Conciliation Board", "text": "Debt Conciliation Board\n\nThe Debt Conciliation Board (DCB) is the independent organ of the Government of Haryana for the implementation of \"The Haryana Relief Of Agricultural Indebtness Act, 1989\". It plays an important role in identifying the deserving candidates for providing relief and adequate benefits to them as per regulations.\n\nIn 2007 Budget the central government passed the law of waiving agricultural loans to the tune of 60,000 crore, and to distribute this relief the debt conciliation boards were set up by the Haryana government. The board was formed on 28 January 2007 by Chief Minister of Haryana BS Hooda. It was formed to provide relief from huge debts to the poor farmers and labourers of Haryana. First it was decided to constitute a single board for the state of Haryana. But due to the presence of large population of benefitors it was decided to constitute this board in every district of Haryana.\n\nThe board in each district is presided by Additional Deputy Commissioner. The District Revenue Officer and a representative of the financial institutions are the other official members. Further there are two non official Government representatives from each district of Haryana.\nNon Official Members are as follows:\n\nThe boards have been constituted under the Haryana Relief of Agricultural Indebtedness Act. Though the Act was enacted in 1989, the boards have been constituted to make the Act really effective. The boards have the jurisdiction to provide relief to debtors of not only a cooperative bank, cooperative society, nationalised bank or commercial bank, but also to the debtors of private creditors and money-lenders. Any debtor, who has paid more than double the principal amount, can approach the board. Section 3 (e) and 4 of the Act under which these boards were constituted provided rescheduling of the debts of farmers with regard to the repayment capacity of the debtor. Section 12 (5) provided that in case the debtor has repaid to the creditor an amount equal to or exceeding double the principal amount, or the debtor on being apprised of such findings pays an amount which makes total repayment equal to double the amount of principal, the board shall have the power to declare the debt as fully discharged.\n\nDCB has been often criticised for being ineffective in providing relief to the deserving candidates in Haryana. It has been alleged that the main reason behind the lackadaisical attitude of the government on this issue was that most political leaders had their own commission agent shops in various grain markets of the state and hence they acted as moneylenders to farmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "41109124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41109124", "title": "Easter Crisis of 1948", "text": "Easter Crisis of 1948\n\nThe Easter Crisis of 1948 was the fear that the Soviet Union or Soviet-aligned Communists were planning an invasion or coup d'état in Denmark. Until this crisis, Denmark had tried to remain neutral between east and west, but the fear of attack from the east caused Denmark to align with the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "237846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237846", "title": "Eric Rudolph", "text": "Eric Rudolph\n\nEric Robert Rudolph (born September 19, 1966), also known as the Olympic Park Bomber, is an American domestic terrorist convicted for a series of anti-abortion and anti-gay-motivated bombings across the southern United States between 1996 and 1998, which killed two people and injured over 120 others.\n\nRudolph spent five years on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list until he was caught in 2003. In 2005, as part of a plea bargain, he pleaded guilty to numerous state and federal homicide charges and accepted four consecutive life sentences in exchange for avoiding a trial and a potential death sentence. He remains incarcerated at the ADX Florence Supermax prison near Florence, Colorado.\n\nRudolph was born in Merritt Island, Florida. After his father, Robert, died in 1981, he moved with his mother and siblings to Nantahala, Macon County, in western North Carolina. He attended ninth grade at the Nantahala School but dropped out after that year and worked as a carpenter with his older brother Daniel. When Rudolph was 18, he spent time with his mother at a Christian Identity compound in Missouri known as the Church of Israel.\n\nAfter Rudolph received his GED, he enlisted in the U.S. Army, undergoing basic training at Fort Benning in Georgia. He was discharged in January 1989, while serving with the 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell in Kentucky, due to marijuana use. In 1988, the year before his discharge, Rudolph had attended the Air Assault School at Fort Campbell. He attained the rank of specialist/E-4.\n\nAt age 29, Rudolph was the perpetrator of the Centennial Olympic Park bombing in Atlanta, which occurred on July 27, 1996, during the 1996 Summer Olympics. He called the police, warning about the bomb before it detonated. The blast killed spectator Alice Hawthorne and wounded 111 others. Melih Uzunyol, a Turkish cameraman, who ran to the scene following the blast, died of a heart attack. Rudolph's motive for the bombings, according to his April 13, 2005 statement, was political:\n\nIn the summer of 1996, the world converged upon Atlanta for the Olympic Games. Under the protection and auspices of the regime in Washington millions of people came to celebrate the ideals of global socialism. Multinational corporations spent billions of dollars, and Washington organized an army of security to protect these best of all games. Even though the conception and the purpose of the so-called Olympic movement is to promote the values of global socialism as perfectly expressed in the song \"Imagine\" by John Lennon, which was the theme of the 1996 Games—even though the purpose of the Olympics is to promote these ideals, the purpose of the attack on July 27 was to confound, anger and embarrass the Washington government in the eyes of the world for its abominable sanctioning of abortion on demand.\n\nThe plan was to force the cancellation of the games, or at least create a state of insecurity to empty the streets around the venues and thereby eat into the vast amounts of money invested.\n\nRudolph's statement authoritatively cleared Richard Jewell, a Centennial Olympic Park security guard, of any involvement in the bombing. Despite having been initially hailed as a hero for being the first one to spot Rudolph's explosive device and helping to clear the area, Jewell fell under suspicion of participating in the bombing a few days after the incident when he came under FBI suspicion for involvement in the crime, becoming the prime suspect and an international news story.\n\nRudolph has also confessed to three other bombings: an abortion clinic in the Atlanta suburb of Sandy Springs on January 16, 1997; the Otherside Lounge of Atlanta, a lesbian bar, on February 21, 1997, injuring five; and an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Alabama on January 29, 1998, killing Birmingham police officer and part-time clinic security guard Robert Sanderson, and critically injuring nurse Emily Lyons. Rudolph's bombs contained nails which acted as shrapnel.\n\nRudolph was first identified as a suspect in the Alabama bombing by the Department of Justice on February 14, 1998, following tips from two witnesses, Jeffrey Tickal and Jermaine Hughes. Tickal and Hughes observed Rudolph departing the scene and noted his appearance and truck license plate. He was named as a suspect in the three Atlanta incidents on October 14, 1998.\n\nOn May 5, 1998, he became the 454th fugitive listed by the FBI on the Ten Most Wanted list. The FBI considered him to be armed and extremely dangerous, and offered a $1 million reward for information leading directly to his arrest. He spent more than five years in the Appalachian wilderness as a fugitive, during which time federal and amateur search teams scoured the area without success.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League noted that \"extremist chatter on the Internet has praised Rudolph as 'a hero' and some followers of hate groups are calling for further acts of violence to be modeled after the bombings he is accused of committing.\"\n\nRudolph's family supported him and believed he was innocent of all charges. They were placed under intense questioning and surveillance. On March 7, 1998, Rudolph's older brother, Daniel, videotaped himself cutting off his left hand with a radial arm saw in order to, in his words, \"send a message to the FBI and the media.\" The hand was successfully reattached by surgeons.\nAccording to Rudolph's own writings, he survived during his years as a fugitive by camping in the Pisgah National Forest near Transylvania County, North Carolina, by gathering acorns and salamanders, pilfering vegetables from gardens, stealing grain from a grain silo, and raiding dumpsters in a nearby town.\n\nRudolph was arrested in Murphy, North Carolina, on May 31, 2003, by rookie police officer Jeffrey Scott Postell of the Murphy Police Department while Rudolph was looking through a dumpster behind a Save-A-Lot store at about 4 a.m.; Postell, on routine patrol, had initially suspected a burglary in progress.\n\nRudolph was unarmed and did not resist arrest. When arrested, he was clean-shaven with a trimmed mustache, had dyed black hair and wore a camouflage jacket, work clothes, and new sneakers. Federal authorities charged him on October 14, 2003. Rudolph was initially defended by attorney Richard S. Jaffe. After Jaffe withdrew, he was represented by Judy Clarke.\n\nOn April 8, 2005, the Department of Justice announced that Rudolph had agreed to a plea bargain under which he would plead guilty to all charges he was accused of in exchange for avoiding the death penalty. The deal was confirmed after the FBI found of dynamite he hid in the forests of North Carolina. His revealing the hiding places of the dynamite was a condition of his plea agreement. He made his pleas in person in Birmingham and Atlanta courts on April 13.\n\nRudolph released a statement explaining his actions; he rationalized the bombings as serving the cause of anti-abortion and anti-gay activism. In his statement, he claimed that he had \"deprived the government of its goal of sentencing me to death,\" and that \"the fact that I have entered an agreement with the government is purely a tactical choice on my part and in no way legitimates the moral authority of the government to judge this matter or impute my guilt.\"\nThe terms of the plea agreement were that Rudolph would be sentenced to four consecutive life terms. He was officially sentenced July 18, 2005, to two consecutive life terms without parole for the 1998 murder of a police officer. He was sentenced for his various bombings in Atlanta on August 22, 2005, receiving two consecutive life terms. That same day, Rudolph was sent to the ADX Florence Supermax federal prison. Rudolph's inmate number is 18282-058. Like other Supermax inmates, he spends 22½ hours per day alone in his concrete cell.\n\nRudolph has made it clear in his written statement and elsewhere that the purpose of the bombings was to fight against abortion and the \"homosexual agenda.\" He considered abortion to be murder, the product of a \"rotten feast of materialism and self-indulgence\"; accordingly, he believed that its perpetrators deserved death, and that the United States government had lost its legitimacy by sanctioning it. He also considered it essential to resist by force \"the concerted effort to legitimize the practice of homosexuality\" in order to protect \"the integrity of American society\" and \"the very existence of our culture\", whose foundation is the \"family hearth.\"\n\nAfter Rudolph's arrest for the bombings, \"The Washington Post\" reported that the FBI considered Rudolph to have \"had a long association with the Christian Identity movement, which asserts that Northern European whites are the direct descendants of the lost tribes of Israel, God's chosen people.\" Christian Identity is a white nationalist religion which holds the view that those who are not white Christians cannot be saved. In the same article, the \"Post\" reported that some FBI investigators believed Rudolph may have written letters that claimed responsibility for the nightclub and abortion clinic bombings on behalf of the Army of God, a group that sanctions the use of force to combat abortions and is associated with Christian Identity.\n\nIn a statement released after he entered a guilty plea, Rudolph denied being a supporter of the Christian Identity movement, claiming that his involvement amounted to a brief association with the daughter of a Christian Identity adherent, later identified as Pastor Daniel Gayman. When asked about his religion he said, \"I was born a Catholic, and with forgiveness I hope to die one.\" In other written statements, Rudolph has cited biblical passages and offered religious motives for his militant opposition to abortion.\n\nSome books and media outlets have portrayed Rudolph as a \"Christian Identity extremist\"; \"Harper's Magazine\" referred to him as a \"Christian terrorist.\" The NPR radio program \"On Point\" referred to him as a \"Christian Identity extremist.\" The Voice of America reported that Rudolph could be seen as part of an \"attempt to try to use a Christian faith to try to forge a kind of racial and social purity.\" Writing in 2004, authors Michael Shermer and Dennis McFarland saw Rudolph's story as an example of \"religious extremism in America,\" warning that the phenomenon he represented was \"particularly potent when gathered together under the umbrella of militia groups,\" whom they believe to have protected Rudolph while he was a fugitive. Rudolph rejects all suggestions that he is a racist or has racial motivations.\n\nIn a letter to his mother from prison, Rudolph has written, \"Many good people continue to send me money and books. Most of them have, of course, an agenda; mostly born-again Christians looking to save my soul. I suppose the assumption is made that because I'm in here I must be a 'sinner' in need of salvation, and they would be glad to sell me a ticket to heaven. I do appreciate their charity, but I could really do without the condescension. They have been so nice I would hate to break it to them that I really prefer Nietzsche to the Bible.\" In spite of this, Eric Rudolph does state, \"The truth is I am a Christian\" Rudolph remained unrepentant for his actions and, in a statement before the court, called his acts against abortion providers a “moral duty.” “As I go to a prison cell for a lifetime, I know that ‘I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith,’” Rudolph said, quoting scripture. \n\nEssays written by Rudolph that condone violence and militant action have been published on the Internet by an Army of God anti-abortion activist. While victims maintain that Rudolph's messages are harassment and could incite violence, according to Alice Martin, United States Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama when Rudolph was prosecuted for the Alabama bombing, the prison can do little to restrict their publication. \"An inmate does not lose his freedom of speech,\" she said.\n\nAs reported in an April 8, 2013 Alabama blog article, in February 2013, with help by his brother, Lulu.com published Rudolph's book \"Between the Lines of Drift: The Memoirs of a Militant\", and in April 2013, the U.S. Attorney General seized $200 to help pay off the $1 million that Rudolph owes in restitution to the state of Alabama. The book has since been republished and has been made available through the Army of God website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2907023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2907023", "title": "Escambray rebellion", "text": "Escambray rebellion\n\nThe Escambray rebellion was a six-year rebellion (1959–1965) in the Escambray Mountains by a group of insurgents who opposed the Cuban government led by Fidel Castro.\n\nThe rebelling group of insurgents was a mix of former Batista soldiers, local farmers, and former allied guerrillas who had fought alongside Castro against Batista during the Cuban Revolution. The end result was the elimination of all insurgents by Cuban government forces in 1965. The Cuban government describes rebellion as \"War Against the Bandits\" ().\n\nThe uprising began almost immediately after the success of the Cuban Revolution in 1959. It was led by former anti-Batista revolutionaries that rejected the Castro coup and the ensuing close ties to the Soviet Union and local peasants who were disenchanted by the Communist government's expropriation of their farmlands. The insurgent \"guajiro\" rural farmers were aided by some former Batista's forces, but were mostly led by former Directorio Revolucionario Estudantil rebels (13 March Movement), such as anti-communists Osvaldo Ramirez and Comandante William Alexander Morgan, both of whom had fought Batista's \"casquitos\" in the same area only a few years before (Morgan himself was executed in 1961 long before the resistance ended.\n\nThe CIA provided some aid to the insurgents, but withdrew all support after the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in 1961, ensuring their ultimate defeat. Some of the failures could be attributed to Castro’s \"roll up\" of CIA operatives in Cuba. Following the failure of the Bay of Pigs Invasion, Osvaldo Ramirez returned to the Escambray Mountains and declined an offer by Fidel Castros' emissary, Comandante Faure Chomón, to surrender. According to Dr. Miguel A. Faria, Chomon had been Ramirez's chief in the Revolutionary Directorate in the Escambray during the guerrilla war against Batista.\n\nThe Cuban government's main tactic was to deploy thousands of troops against small groups of rebels, forming progressively constricting rings of encirclement. The Communist leaders that Castro sent to clear the Escambray Mountains were ordered to exterminate the rebels. They were to \"comb the brush, elbow to elbow\" until they had completely cleared the hills of anticommunist rebels. The leaders of the Cuban counter-insurgent forces \"Lucha contra Bandidos\" (LCB) were Commandantes Raul Menendez Tomassevich, founding member of the Cuban Communist Party and Lizardo Proenza.\n\nSuperior numbers and the lack of outside assistance, particularly supplies, led to the rebels' defeat. The outnumbered anticommunist guerrillas often fought to the death. Cuban forces used sweeps by long columns of militia, which cost the government substantial losses but ultimately won the war. Spanish-Soviet advisor Francisco Ciutat de Miguel, who was also present at the Bay of Pigs Invasion, played a major role in the pacification operation. Castro employed overwhelming force, at times sending in as many as 250,000 government troops. The insurgency was eventually crushed by the Castros' use of vastly superior numbers. Some of the insurgents ultimately surrendered, but they were immediately executed by firing squad. Only a handful managed to escape.\n\nThe War Against the Bandits actually lasted longer and involved more soldiers than had the previous struggle against Batista's forces. Cuban government combat leader Victor Dreke gave a pro-Castro viewpoint in his 2002 book \"From el Escambray to the Congo\". This is notable for its virulent condemnation of former comrades from the war against Batista. However, Dreke also describes the tactics and mindset of the Cuban government forces and its ruthless use of force and no-prisoners attitude.\n\nRaul Castro claimed in a speech in 1970 that the rebellion killed 500 members of the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces; the death toll of the rebels and others involved in the rebellion (such as civilians and pro-government militias) are unknown. Estimates for total combatant deaths range from 1,000 to 7,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3342971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3342971", "title": "First Peoples National Party of Canada", "text": "First Peoples National Party of Canada\n\nThe First Peoples National Party of Canada (FPNPC) was a registered federal political party in Canada. It intends to advance the lives of the Aboriginal peoples in Canada getting involved in the federal electoral process, engage the public on Indigenous issues, and calling upon the grassroots to get involved by nominating candidates for election in electoral districts with large Aboriginal populations. The party ran candidates in 3 federal elections between 2006 and 2011. The party was voluntarily deregistered by Elections Canada on July 5, 2013, with then-leader Will Morin asserting that the party's purpose had been supplanted by the emergence of the Idle No More activist movement.\n\nThe FPNPC held its first organizational meeting in October 2004 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. The similarly minded Aboriginal Peoples Party of Canada began organizing independently in the summer of 2005. Although the parties contrasted somewhat in their desire to work closely with or at arm's-length from national aboriginal organizations such as the Assembly of First Nations, it is believed that the two parties have merged their applications for registration to facilitate gaining Elections Canada recognition. One of the conditions of that agreement was a national convention in which the party's name would be put to the membership for a vote.\n\nIn the fall of 2005 the FPNP filed its application for registration as a political party, with all requirements met we received the title \"eligible for party status,\" waiting on the next federal election. The party nominated five candidates in Alberta, British Columbia and Ontario in the 2006 federal election. On December 26, 2005, Will Morin, an Ojibway from Michipicoten First Nation was the first of these 5 candidates to be officially registered by Elections Canada. This registration, during a federal election, made the FPNP an official political party.\n\nBarbara Wardlaw, an Ojibwa from the Michipicoten First Nation near Sault Ste. Marie, served as the party's interim leader in the 2006 and 2008 elections. She was succeeded by Will Morin, who also serves as leader on an interim basis. Morin was the party's only candidate in the 2011 election, receiving 0.50 percent of the votes in the riding of Sudbury.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "922162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=922162", "title": "First Peoples Party", "text": "First Peoples Party\n\nThe First Peoples Party (FPP) was a short-lived political-party in Manitoba, Canada.\n\nThe FPP was created following a 1993 resolution by the Assembly of Manitoba Chiefs, endorsing a political party to focus on aboriginal issues. The party was officially founded in November 1994, and fielded three candidates in the 1995 provincial election. The FPP was not registered with Elections Manitoba, and its candidates appeared on the ballot as independents.\n\nThe FPP argued that all aboriginal peoples in Canada possess an inherent right to self-government, and claimed the established political parties were not giving sufficient attention to aboriginal concerns. The party also highlighted issues of sustainable development and the environment. Jerry Fontaine was recognized as the party's leader, although it is not clear if he held an official title within the party. A former Liberal Party candidate, Fontaine emphasized that the FPP was open to all Manitobans and not only those of aboriginal background.\n\nSome members of Manitoba's aboriginal community opposed the FPP's creation. George Hickes, a New Democratic Party (NDP) legislator of Inuit background, argued that the principle of an aboriginal party is inappropriate for Canada's constituency-based electoral system. Elected politicians, he argued, are required to represent diverse communities. Referring to his own ethnically diverse Point Douglas constituency, Hickes said, \"You have Ukrainians, Filipinos, Chinese. What happens to them... if you're running to represent only one group of people?\"\n\nThe FPP was largely unsuccessful as a political party. Fontaine ran a credible campaign in the vast northern constituency of Rupertsland, but nonetheless finished in fourth place with 541 votes. Una Truscott received 262 votes in the Winnipeg constituency of Broadway, while Lyle Morrisseau received 105 votes in neighbouring Point Douglas. The NDP won all three constituencies.\n\nIn the middle of the campaign, two candidates from a separate party called Independent Native Voice also joined the FPP: Nelson Contois and his daughter Carey Contois. Three years later, allegations arose that the Contois candidacies were sponsored by Progressive Conservative Party organizers to encourage vote-splitting with the NDP. The FPP was not implicated in this scandal.\n\nThe First Peoples Party dissolved after the 1995 election. Fontaine subsequently rejoined the Liberals, and ran for the leadership of that party in 1998. He was defeated by Jon Gerrard.\n\nIn 2000, a separate First Peoples Party was founded in British Columbia under the leadership of Don Moss. This was later renamed as the All Nations Party of British Columbia. A federal First Peoples National Party of Canada was established in 2005, based in part on the FPP.\n\nIf the Contois candidacies are included, the figures become:\n\nTruscott was the first candidate nominated for the FPP. She was a 28-year-old university student at the time of the election, and her campaign focused on sustainable development and the environment. She received 262 votes (4.01%), finishing fourth in a field of four candidates. The winner was Conrad Santos of the New Democratic Party.\n\nTruscott later worked as the Aboriginal Public Administration Program Intern for the Office of the Children's Advocate of Manitoba, and became the Aboriginal Cultural and Spiritual Liaison at the St. Amant Centre.\n\nMorrisseau is a member of the Sagkeeng First Nation, and also holds the name Kah Kimi Watha Pimi Whata (Day Walker). He served on the student council of the Saskatchewan Indian Federated College in the early 1990s. In January 1994, he was a spokesman for the 1992 Committee Supporting 500 Years of Indigenous Resistance at an anti-North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) rally in Winnipeg. Morrisseau endorsed the actions of indigenous rebels in the Mexican state of Chiapas, and drew parallels between the conditions of aboriginal people in Mexico, Canada and the United States.\n\nHe received 105 votes (2.14%) in the 1995 election, finishing fourth against New Democratic Party candidate George Hickes. Soon after the election, Morrisseau participated in a protest by the Nuxalk nation in British Columbia against local logging activities as a representative of the First Nations Environmental Network.\n\nMorrisseau remained active with environmental issues after 1995. In 1997, he spoke out against the burial of nuclear waste on aboriginal land.\n\nIn 2000, Morrisseau and Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officer Ron MacRae used CPR to revive a trucker whom witnessed initially believed was dead at the scene of an accident. The newspaper report of this incident listed Morrisseau as living in Fort Alexander, Manitoba.\n\nFontaine received 541 votes (12.22%), finishing fourth against NDP candidate Eric Robinson.\n\nAll electoral information is taken from Elections Manitoba.\n\n"}
{"id": "565258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565258", "title": "Forty acres and a mule", "text": "Forty acres and a mule\n\nForty Acres and a Mule refers to a promise made in the United States for agrarian reform to former enslaved black farmers by Union General William Tecumseh Sherman on January 16, 1865. It followed a series of conversations between Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton and Radical Republican abolitionists Charles Sumner and Thaddeus Stevens following disruptions to the institution of slavery provoked by the American Civil War. Many freedmen believed and were told by various political figures that they had a right to own the land they had long worked as slaves, and were eager to control their own property. Freed people widely expected to legally claim of land (a quarter-quarter section) and a mule after the end of the war, long after proclamations such as Sherman's Special Field Orders, No. 15 and the Freedmen's Bureau Act were explicitly reversed.\n\nSome land redistribution occurred under military jurisdiction during the war and for a brief period thereafter. However, federal and state policy during the Reconstruction era emphasized wage labor, not land ownership, for blacks. Almost all land allocated during the war was restored to its pre-war white owners. Several black communities did maintain control of their land, and some families obtained new land by homesteading. Black land ownership increased markedly in Mississippi during the 19th century, particularly. The state had much undeveloped bottomland behind riverfront areas that had been cultivated before the war. Most blacks acquired land through private transactions, with ownership peaking at in 1910, before an extended financial recession caused problems that resulted in the loss of their property for many.\n\nThe institution of slavery in the United States deprived multiple generations of the opportunity to own land. Legally, slaves could not own property, but in practice they did acquire capital — and generally perceived themselves as the lowest-ranking members of the capitalist system. As legal slavery came to an end, many freed people fully expected to gain ownership of the land they had worked.\n\nAfrican Americans in the U.S. faced severe discrimination, and were maintained as a distinct racial group by laws against \"miscegenation\". Perceived as a threat to society, and particularly as a dangerous influence on slaves, free Negroes had not been welcome in most areas of the United States. Before the Civil War, most free blacks lived in the North, which had abolished slavery. In some places they acquired substantial real estate.\n\nIn the South, vagrancy laws had allowed the states to force free Negroes into labor, and sometimes to sell them into slavery. Nevertheless, free Africans across the country performed a variety of occupations, and a small number owned and operated successful farms. Others settled in Southern Ontario and Nova Scotia, possible endpoints of the Underground Railroad.\n\nWhite abolitionists did not agree on how freed people ought to be treated. While some advocated full redistribution of land, others did not support any type of race mixing. Plans for a colony began in 1801 when James Monroe asked President Thomas Jefferson to help create a penal colony for rebellious blacks. The American Colonization Society formed in 1816 to address the issue of free African Americans through resettlement abroad. By 1860, the ACS had settled thousands of Africans in Liberia. But colonization was slow and unappealing to many, and as mass emancipation loomed there was no clear understanding of what might happen to millions of soon-to-be-free blacks. This issue had long been known to white authorities as \"The Negro Problem\".\n\nThe idea of a land grant to an entire class of people was not so unusual in the 1700s and 1800s as it seems today. For example, Thomas Jefferson proposed a grant of 50 acres to any free man who didn't already have at least 50 acres in his draft of a revolutionary constitution for Virginia in 1776. More recently, various Homestead Acts were passed 1862–1916, granting 160–640 acres (a quarter section to a full section), depending on the act, and earlier homesteading occurred under statutues such as the Preemption Act of 1841. Freedmen were not generally eligible for homesteading, because they were not citizens, which changed with the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868, when they were granted citizenship.\n\nAs the Northern Army began to seize property in its war with the South, Congress passed the Confiscation Act of 1861. This law allowed the military to seize rebel property, including land and slaves. In fact, it reflected the rapidly growing reality of black refugee camps that sprung up around the Union Army. These glaring manifestations of the \"Negro Problem\" provoked hostility from much of the Union rank-and-file—and necessitated administration by officers.\n\nAfter secession, the Union maintained its control over Fort Monroe in Hampton on the coast of Southern Virginia. Escaped slaves rushed to the area, hoping for protection from the Confederate Army. (Even more quickly, the town's white residents fled to Richmond.) General Benjamin Butler set a precedent for Union forces on May 24, 1861, when he refused to surrender escaped slaves to Confederates claiming ownership. Butler declared the slaves contraband of war and allowed them to remain with the Union Army. By July 1861, there were 300 \"contraband\" slaves working for rations at Fort Monroe. By the end of July there were 900, and General Butler appointed Edward L. Pierce as Commissioner of Negro Affairs.\n\nConfederate raiders under General John B. Magruder burnt the nearby town of Hampton, Virginia on August 7, 1861, but the \"contraband\" blacks occupied its ruins. They established a shantytown known as the Grand Contraband Camp. Many worked for the Army at a rate of $10.00/month, but these wages were not sufficient for them to make major improvements in housing. Conditions in The Camp grew worse, and Northern humanitarian groups sought to intervene on behalf of its 64,000 residents. Captain C. B. Wilder was appointed to organize a response. The perceived humanitarian crisis may have hastened Lincoln's plans for colonizing Île-à-Vache.\n\nA plan developed in September 1862 would have relocated refugees en masse to Massachusetts and other northern states. This plan—initiated by John A. Dix and supported by Captain Wilder and Secretary of War Stanton—drew negative reactions from Republicans who wanted to avoid connecting northward black migration with the newly announced Emancipation Proclamation. Fear of competition by black workers, as well as generalized racial prejudice, made the prospect of black refugees unpalatable for Massachusetts politicians.\n\nWith support from orders from General Rufus Saxton, General Butler and Captain Wilder pursued local resettlement operations, providing many of the blacks in Hampton with two acres of land and tools with which to work. Others were assigned jobs as servants in the North. Various smaller camps and colonies were formed, including the Freedmen's Colony of Roanoke Island. Hampton was well known as one of the War's first and biggest refugee camps, and served as a sort of model for other settlements.\n\nThe Union Army occupied the Sea Islands after the November 1861 Battle of Port Royal, leaving the area's many cotton plantations to the black farmers who worked on them. The early liberation of the Sea Island blacks, and the relatively unusual absence of the former white masters, raised the issue of how the South might be organized after the fall of slavery. Lincoln, commented State Department official Adam Gurowski, \"is frightened with the success in South Carolina, as in his opinion this success will complicate the question of slavery.\" In the early days of federal occupation, troops were badly mistreating the island's residents, and had raided plantation supplies of food and clothing. One Union officer was caught preparing to secretly transport a group of blacks to Cuba, in order to sell them as slaves. Abuses by Union troops continued even after a stable regime had been established.\n\nTreasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase had in December deployed Colonel William H. Reynolds to collect and sell whatever cotton could be confiscated from the Sea Island plantations. Soon after, Chase deployed Edward Pierce (after his brief period at Grand Contraband Camp) to assess the situation in Port Royal. Pierce found a plantation under strict Army control, paying wages too low to enable economic independence; he also criticized the Army's policy of shipping cotton North to be ginned. Pierce reported that the black workers were experts in cotton farming but required white managers \"to enforce a paternal discipline\". He recommended the establishment of a supervised black farming collective to prepare the workers for the responsibilities of citizenship—and to serve as a model for post-slavery labor relations in the South.\n\nThe Treasury Department sought to raise money and in many cases was already leasing occupied territories to Northern capitalists for private management. For Port Royal Colonel Thomas had already prepared an arrangement of this type; but Pierce insisted that Port Royal offered the chance to \"settle a great social question\": namely, whether \"when properly organized, and with proper motives set before them, [blacks] will as freemen be as industrious as any race of men are likely to be in this climate.\" Chase sent Pierce to see President Lincoln. As Pierce later described the encounter:\n\nPierce accepted this reluctant mandate, but feared that \"some unhappy compromise\" might compromise his plan to engineer black citizenship.\n\nThe collective was established and became known as the Port Royal Experiment: a possible model for black economic activity after slavery. The Experiment attracted support from Northerners like economist Edward Atkinson, who hoped to prove his theory that free labor would be more productive than slave labor. More traditional abolitionists like Maria Weston Chapman also praised Pierce's plan. Civic groups like the American Missionary Association provided enthusiastic assistance. These sympathetic Northerners quickly recruited a boatload (53 chosen from a pool of applicants several times larger) of Ivy League and divinity school graduates who set off for Port Royal on March 3, 1862.\n\nThe residents of Port Royal generally resented the military and civilian occupiers, who exhibited racist superiority in varying degrees of overtness. Joy turned to sorrow when, on May 12 Union soldiers arrived to draft all able-bodied black men previously liberated on April 13, 1862, by General David Hunter who proclaimed slavery abolished in Georgia, South Carolina, and Alabama. Hunter kept his regiment even after Lincoln reversed this tri-state emancipation proclamation; but disbanded almost all of it when unable to draw payroll from the War Department. Black farmers preferred to grow vegetables and catch fish, whereas the missionaries (and other whites on the islands) encouraged monoculture of cotton as a cash crop. In the thinking of the latter, civilization would be advanced by incorporating blacks into the consumer economy dominated by Northern manufacturing.\n\nMeanwhile, various conflicts arose among the missionaries, the Army, and the merchants whom Chase and Reynolds had invited to Port Royal in order to confiscate all that could be sold. On balance, however, the white sponsors of the Experiment had perceived positive results; businessman John Murray Forbes in May 1862 called it \"a decided success\", announcing that Blacks would indeed work in exchange for wages.\n\nSecretary of War Edwin M. Stanton appointed General Rufus Saxton as military governor of Port Royal in April 1862, and by December Saxton was agitating for permanent black control over the land. He won support from Stanton, Chase, Sumner, and President Lincoln, but met continuing resistance from a tax commission that wanted to sell the land. Saxton also received approval to train a black militia, which formally became the 1st South Carolina Volunteers on January 1, 1863, when the Emancipation Proclamation legalized its existence.\n\nAs elsewhere, black workers felt strongly that they had a claim to the lands they worked.\n\nThe Confiscation Act of 1862 allowed the Treasury Department to sell many captured lands on the grounds of delinquent taxes. All told, the government now claimed 76,775 acres of Sea Island land. Auditors arrived in Port Royal and began to assess the estates now occupied by blacks and missionaries. The stakes were high: the Sea Island cotton harvest represented a lucrative commodity for Northern investors to control.\n\nMost of the whites involved in the project felt that black ownership of the land should be its final result. Saxton—along with journalists including \"Free South\" editor James G. Thompson, and missionaries including Methodist minister Mansfield French—lobbied hard for distribution of the land to black owners. In January 1863, Saxton unilaterally halted the Treasury Department's tax sale on the grounds of military necessity.\n\nThe tax commissioners conducted the auction regardless, selling ten thousand acres of land. Eleven plantations went to a consortium (\"The Boston Concern\") headed by Edward Philbrick, who sold the land in 1865 to black farmers. One black farming collective outbid the outside investors, paying an average of $7.00 per acre for the 470 plantation on which they already lived and worked. Overall, the majority of the land was sold to Northern investors and remained under their control.\n\nIn September 1863, Lincoln announced a plan to auction 60,000 acres of South Carolina land in lots of 320 acres—setting aside 16,000 acres of the land for \"heads of families of the African race\", who could obtain 20-acre lots sold at $1.25/acre. Tax Commissioner William Brisbane envisioned racial integration on the islands, with large plantation owners employing landless blacks. But Saxton and French considered the 16,000-acre reserve to be inadequate, and instructed black families to stake claims and build houses on all 60,000 acres of the land. French traveled to Washington in December 1863 to lobby for legal confirmation of the plan. At French's urging, Chase and Lincoln authorized Sea Island families (and solitary wives of soldiers in the Union Army) to claim 40-acre plots. Other individuals over the age of 21 would be allowed to claim 20 acres. These plots would be purchased at $1.25 per acre, with 40% paid upfront and 60% paid later. With a requirement of six months' prior residency, the order functionally restricted settlement to blacks, missionaries, and others who were already involved in the Experiment.\n\nClaims to land under the new plan began to arrive immediately, but Commissioner Brisbane ignored them, hoping for another reversal of the decision in Washington. Chase did indeed reverse his position in February, restoring the plan for a tax sale. The sale took place in late February, with land selling for an average price of more than $11/acre. The sale provoked outcry from freedpeople who had already claimed land according to Chase's December order.\n\nMajor General William Tecumseh Sherman's \"March to the Sea\" brought a massive regiment of the Union Army to the Georgia coast in December 1864. Accompanying the Army were an estimated ten thousand black refugees, former slaves. This group was already suffering from starvation and disease. Many former slaves had become disillusioned by the Union Army, having suffered pillaging, rape, and other abuses. They arrived in Savannah \"after long marches and severe privations, \"weary, famished, sick, and almost naked\". On December 19, Sherman dispatched many of these slaves to Hilton Head, an island already serving as refugee camp. Saxton reported on December 22 \"Every cabin and house on these islands is filled to overflowing—I have some 15,000.\" 700 more arrived on Christmas.\n\nOn January 11, 1865, Secretary of War Edwin Stanton arrived in Savannah with Quartermaster General Montgomery C. Meigs and other officials. This group met with Generals Sherman and Saxton to discuss the refugee crisis. They decided, in turn, to consult leaders from the local Black community and ask them: \"What do you want for your own people?\" A meeting was duly arranged.\n\nAt 8:00 PM on January 12, 1865, Sherman met with a group of twenty people, many of whom had been slaves for most of their lives. The blacks of Savannah had seized the opportunity of emancipation to strengthen their community's institutions, and they had strong political feelings. They selected one spokesperson: Garrison Frazier, the 67-year-old former pastor of Third African Baptist. In the late 1850s, he had for $1,000 bought freedom for himself and his wife. Frazier had consulted with the refugees as well as the other representatives. He told Sherman: \"The way we can best take care of ourselves is to have land, and turn it and till it by our own labor.\" Frazier suggested that young men would serve the government in fighting the Rebels, and that therefore \"the women and children and old men\" would have to work this land. Almost all of those present agreed to request land grants for autonomous black communities, on the grounds that racial hatred would prevent economic advancement for blacks in mixed areas.\n\nSherman's Special Field Orders, No. 15, issued on January 16, 1865, instructed officers to settle these refugees on the Sea Islands and inland: 400,000 total acres divided into 40-acre plots. Though mules (beasts of burden used for plowing) were not mentioned, some of its beneficiaries did receive them from the army. Such plots were colloquially known as \"Blackacres\", which may have a basis for their origin in contract law.\n\nSherman's orders specifically allocated \"the islands from Charleston, south, the abandoned rice fields along the rivers for thirty miles back from the sea, and the country bordering the St. Johns River, Florida.\" The order specifically prohibits whites from settling in this area. Saxton, who, with Stanton, helped to craft the document, was promoted to Major General and charged with oversight of the new settlement. On February 3, Saxton addressed a large freedpeople's meeting at Second African Baptist, announcing the order and outlining preparations for new settlement. By June 1865, about 40,000 freedpeople were settled on in the Sea Islands.\n\nThe Special Field Orders were issued by Sherman, not the federal government with regards to all former slaves, and he issued similar ones \"throughout the campaign to assure the harmony of action in the area of operations.\" Sherman himself later said that these settlements were never intended to last. However, this was never the understanding of the settlers—nor of General Saxton, who said he asked Sherman to cancel the order unless it was meant to be permanent.\n\nIn practice, the areas of land settled were quite variable. James Chaplin Beecher observed that the \"so called 40 acre tract[s] vary in size from eight acres to (450) four hundred and fifty.\" Some areas were settled by groups: Skidaway Island was colonized by a group of over 1000 people, including Reverend Ulysses L. Houston.\n\nThe Sea Islands project reflected a policy of \"40 acres and a mule\" as the basis for post-slavery economics. Especially in 1865, the precedent it set was highly visible to newly free blacks seeking land of their own. Freedpeople from across the region flocked to the area in search of land. The result was refugee camps afflicted by disease and short on supplies.\n\nEspecially after Sherman's Orders, the coastal settlements generated enthusiasm for a new society that would supplant the slave system. Reported one journalist in April 1865: \"It was the Plymouth colony repeating itself. They agreed if any others came to join them, they should have equal privileges. So blooms the Mayflower on the South Atlantic Coast.\"\n\nBeginning in occupied Louisiana under General Nathaniel P. Banks, the military developed a wage-labor system for cultivating large areas of land. This system—which took effect with Lincoln and Stanton's blessing soon after the Emancipation Proclamation legitimized contracts with the freedpeople—offered ironclad one-year contracts to freedpeople. The contract promised $10/month as well as provisions and medical care. The system was soon also adopted by General Lorenzo Thomas in Mississippi.\n\nSometimes land came under the control of Treasury officials. Jurisdictional disputes erupted between the Treasury Department and the military. Criticism of Treasury Department profiteering by General John Eaton and journalists who witnessed the new form of plantation labor influenced public opinion in the North and pressured Congress to support direct control of land by freedmen. The Treasury Department, particularly as Secretary Chase prepared to seek the Republican nomination in 1864, accused the military of treating the freedpeople inhumanely. Lincoln decided in favor of military rather than Treasury jurisdiction, and the wage labor system became more deeply established. Abolitionist critics of the policy called it no better than serfdom.\n\nOne of the largest black landownership projects took place at Davis Bend, Mississippi, the 11,000-acre site of plantations owned by Joseph Davis and his famous younger brother Jefferson, president of the Confederacy. Influenced by some aspects of Robert Owen's socialism, Joseph Davis had established the experimental 4000-acre Hurricane Plantation in 1827 at Davis Bend. Davis allowed several hundred slaves to eat nutritious food, live in well-built cottages, receive medical care, and resolve their disputes in a weekly \"Hall of Justice\" court. His motto was: \"The less people are governed, the more submissive they will be to control.\" Davis relied heavily on the managerial skills of Ben Montgomery, a well-educated slave who conducted much of the plantation's business.\n\nThe Battle of Shiloh began a period of turmoil (1862–1863), at Davis Bend, although its black residents continued farming. The plantation was occupied by two companies of black Union troops in December 1863. Under the command of Colonel Samuel Thomas, these soldiers began to fortify the area. General Ulysses S. Grant had expressed a desire to make of the Davis plantations \"a negro paradise.\" Thomas began to lease the land to black tenants for the 1864 crop season. Black refugees who had gathered in Vicksburg moved \"en masse\" to Davis Bend under the auspices of the Freedman's Department (an agency created by the military prior to Congressional authorization of the \"Freedmen's Bureau\", discussed below).\n\nDavis Bend was caught in the middle of the turf war between the military and the Treasury Department. In February 1864, the Treasury re-confiscated 2000 acres of Davis Bend, restoring them to white owners who had sworn loyalty oaths. It also leased 1,200 acres to Northern investors. Although Thomas resisted instructions to prevent the free blacks from farming, General Eaton ordered him to comply. Eaton also ordered Thomas to confiscate farming equipment held by blacks, on the grounds that—because Mississippi law banned slaves from owning property—they must have stolen such possessions. The Treasury Department sought to charge the plantation workers a fee for using the cotton gin. The residents of Davis Bend objected strenuously to these measures. In a petition signed by 56 farmers (including Montgomery) and published in the New Orleans \"Tribune\":\n\nAt the commencement of our present year, this plantation was, in compliance with an order of our Post Commander, deprived of horses, mules, oxen and farming utensils of every description, very much of which had been captured and brought into Union lines by the undersigned; in consequence of which deprivations, we were, of course, reduced to the necessity of buying everything necessary for farming, and having thus far succeeded in performing by far the most expensive and laborious part of our work, we are prepared to accomplish the ginning, pressing, weighing, marking, consigning, etc., in a business-like order if allowed to do so.\n\nFrom 1863–1865, Congress debated what policies it might adopt to address the social issues that would confront the South after the war. The Freedmen's Aid Society pushed for a \"Bureau of Emancipation\" to assist in the economic transition away from slavery. It used Port Royal as evidence that blacks could live and work on their own. Land reform was often discussed, though some objected that too much capital would be required to ensure the success of black farmers. On January 31, 1865, the House of Representatives approved the 13th Amendment, which outlaws slavery and involuntary servitude except in the case of punishment.\n\nCongress continued to debate the economic and social status of the free population, with land reform identified as critical to realizing black freedom. A bill drafted in conference committee to provide limited land tenure for one year while authorizing military supervision of freedmen was rejected in the Senate by abolitionists who thought it did not do justice to the freedmen. A six-person committee quickly wrote \"an entirely new bill\" which substantially increased its promise to the freedmen.\n\nThis stronger version of the bill passed both houses on March 3, 1865. With this bill, Congress established the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands under the War Department. The Bureau had authority to provide supplies for refugees—and an unfunded mandate to redistribute land, in parcels of up to 40 acres:\n\nSec. 4. \"And be it further enacted,\" That the commissioner, under the direction of the President, shall have authority to set apart, for the use of loyal refugees and freedmen, such tracts of land within the insurrectionary states as shall have been abandoned, or to which the United States shall have acquired title by confiscation or sale, or otherwise, and to every male citizen, whether refugee or freedman, as aforesaid, there shall be assigned not more than forty acres of such land, and the person to whom it was so assigned shall be protected in the use and enjoyment of the land for the term of three years at an annual rent not exceeding six per centum upon the value of such land, as it was appraised by the state authorities in the year eighteen hundred and sixty, for the purpose of taxation, and in case no such appraisal can be found, then the rental shall be based upon the estimated value of the land in said year, to be ascertained in such manner as the commissioner may by regulation prescribe. At the end of said term, or at any time during said term, the occupants of any parcels so assigned may purchase the land and receive such title thereto as the United States can convey, upon paying therefor the value of the land, as ascertained and fixed for the purpose of determining the annual rent aforesaid.\n\nThe bill thus established a system in which Southern blacks could lease abandoned and confiscated land, with yearly rent at 6% (or less) of the land's value (assessed for tax purposes in 1860). After three years, they would have the option to buy this land at full price. The Bureau in charge, which became known as the Freedmen's Bureau, was placed under the continuing supervision of the military because Congress anticipated the need to defend black settlements from White Southerners. The bill implicitly rejected plans by Lincoln and others to colonize blacks abroad, or even in segregated regions of the United States—its mandate would have institutionalized black landownership of the same land that had formerly relied on their unpaid labor.\n\nWhen Andrew Johnson became president after Lincoln's assassination, he took aggressive steps to restore the Union. On May 29, 1865, Johnson issued an amnesty proclamation to ordinary Southern citizens who swore loyalty oaths, promising not only political immunity but also return of confiscated property. (Johnson's proclamation excluded Confederate politicians, military officers, and landowners with property worth more than $20,000.) General O. O. Howard, chief of the Freedmen's Bureau, requested an interpretation from Attorney General James Speed regarding how this proclamation would affect the Freedmen's Bureau mandate. Speed replied on June 22, 1865 that the Bureau Commissioner:\n\n... has \"authority\", under the direction of the President, to set apart for the use of loyal refugees and freedmen the lands in question; and he is \"required\" to assign to every male of that class of persons, not more than forty acres of such lands.\n\nHoward acted quickly based on the authorization from Speed, ordering an inventory of lands available for redistribution and resisting white Southerners' attempts to reclaim property. At its peak in 1865, the Freedmen's Bureau controlled 800,000–900,000 acres of plantation lands previously belonging to slave owners. This area represented 0.2% of land in the South; ultimately the Johnson proclamation required the Bureau to re-allocate most of it to its former owners.\n\nOn July 28, 1865, Howard issued \"Circular no. 13\", a directive within the Freedmen's Bureau to issue land to refugees and freedmen. Circular no. 13 explicitly instructed Bureau agents to prioritize the Congressional mandate for land distribution over Johnson's amnesty declaration. Its final section clarified: \"The pardon of the President will not be understood to extend to the surrender of abandoned or confiscated property which by law has been 'set apart for Refugees and Freedmen'\". With Circular #13, land redistribution was an official policy for the entire South, and understood as such by army officers.\n\nAfter issuing Circular 13, however, Howard, seemingly unaware of how significant and controversial his instructions might prove, left Washington for a vacation in Maine. President Johnson and others began to counteract the Circular almost immediately. After Johnson ordered the Bureau to restore the estate of a complaining Tennessee plantation owner, General Joseph S. Fullerton suggested to at least one subordinate that Circular #13 \"will not be observed for the present\".\n\nWhen Howard returned to Washington, Johnson ordered him to write a new Circular that would respect his policy of land restoration. Johnson rejected Howard's draft and wrote his own version, which he issued on September 12 as Circular #15—including Howard's name. Circular #15 established strict criteria for designating a property as \"officially confiscated\" and had the effect in many places of ending land redistribution completely.\n\nEspecially during the six-week period between Circular #13 and Circular #15, '40 acres and a mule' (along with other supplies necessary for farming) represented a common promise of Freedmen's Bureau agents. Clinton B. Fisk, Assistant Commissioner of the Freedmen's Bureau for Kentucky and Tennessee, had announced at a black political assembly: \"They must not only have freedom but homes of their own, thirty or forty acres, with mules, cottages, and schoolhouses etc.\"\n\nA Bureau administrator in Virginia proposed leasing to each family a 40-acre plot of land, a pair of mules, harnesses, a cart, tools, seeds, and food supplies. The family would pay for these supplies after growing crops and selling them.\n\nBureau agents encountered legal problems in allocating land to freedpeople as a result of the \"Black Codes\" passed by Southern legislatures in late 1865 and 1866. Some of the new laws prevented black people from owning or leasing land. The Freedmen's Bureau generally treated the black Codes as invalid, based on federal legislation. However, the Bureau was not always able to enforce its interpretation after the Union Army had substantially demobilized.\n\nDuring and after the war, politicians, generals and others envisioned a variety of colonization plans that would have provided real estate to black families. Although the American Colonization Society had been colonizing more people in Liberia and receiving more donations (almost one million dollars in the 1850s), it did not have the means to respond to mass emancipation.\n\nLincoln had long supported colonization as a plausible solution to the problem of slavery, and pursued colonization plans throughout his presidency. In 1862, Congress approved $600,000 to fund Lincoln's plan for colonizing blacks \"in a climate congenial to them\", and granted Lincoln broad executive powers to orchestrate colonization. Lincoln immediately created an Emigration Office within the Department of the Interior and instructed the State Department to acquire suitable land. The first major plan considered would have sent employed free blacks as coal miners in Chiriquí Province, Panama (then part of Gran Colombia). Volunteers were promised 40 acres of land and a job in the mines; Senator Samuel C. Pomeroy, whom Lincoln had appointed to oversee the plan, had also purchased mules, yokes, tools, wagons, seeds, and other supplies to support a potential colony. Pomeroy accepted 500 of the 13,700 people who applied for the job. However, the plan was canceled by the end of the year—due perhaps to Latin American and British opposition, or to a discovery that Chiriquí's coal was of poor quality.\n\nLike Liberia, an independent black nation, Haiti was also considered a good place to colonize freedpeople from the U.S. As the Chiriquí plan was hitting its stride in 1862, Lincoln was developing another plan to colonize the small island of Île à Vache near Haiti. Lincoln struck a deal with businessman Bernard Kock, who had obtained rights to lease the island for cultivation and wood-cutting. 453 Blacks, mostly young men from the Tidewater region around occupied Hampton, Virginia, volunteered to colonize the island. On April 14, 1863, they left Fort Monroe in the \"Ocean Ranger\". Kock confiscated all of the money possessed by the colonists and did not pay their wages. Initial reports suggested dire conditions, though these were later disputed. A number of colonists died in the first year. 292 survivors from the original group remained on the island and 73 had moved to Aux Cayes; most were restored to the U.S. by a mission of the Navy in February 1864. Congress rescinded Lincoln's colonization authority in July 1863.\n\nLincoln continued to pursue colonization plans, particularly in the British West Indies, but none came to fruition. The American Colonization Society settled a few hundred people in Liberia during the war, and several thousand more in the five years following.\n\nConfederate general Nathan Bedford Forrest had proposed in 1865 before the end of the war to hire black soldiers and freedmen in constructing a railroad for the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad Company, paying them with $1/day and land along the railway line. This proposal later gained the endorsements of Sherman, Howard, Johnson, and Arkansas Governor Isaac Murphy. Howard transported several hundred freedmen from Alabama to Arkansas for work on the line. He appointed Edward Ord to supervise the project and protect the freedmen from Forrest.\n\nAs it became clear that the pool of land available for blacks was rapidly shrinking, the Union discussed various proposals for how blacks might resettle and eventually own their own land. In Virginia, the mass of landless blacks represented a growing crisis—soon to be exacerbated by the return of 10,000 black soldiers from Texas. Concerned about a possible insurrection, Colonel Orlando Brown (head of the Freedmen's Bureau in Virginia) proposed relocating Virginia's blacks to Texas or Florida. Brown proposed that the federal government reserve 500,000 acres in Florida for colonization by the soldiers and 50,000 other free blacks from Virginia. Howard took Brown's proposal to Congress.\n\nIn December 1865, Congress began to debate the \"Second Freedmen's Bureau bill\", which would have opened three million acres of unoccupied public land in Florida, Mississippi, and Arkansas for homesteading. (An amendment to allow black homesteading on public lands in the North was defeated.) Congress passed the bill in February 1866 but could not override Johnson's veto. (Congress passed a more limited \"Second Freedmen's Bureau Bill\" in July 1866, and did override Johnson's veto.)\n\nHoward continued to push for Congress to appropriate land for allocation to freedmen. With support from Thaddeus Stevens and William Fessenden, Congress began to debate a new bill for black settlement of public lands in the South. The result was the Southern Homestead Act, which opened 46,398,544.87 acres of land in Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Arkansas to homesteading; initially 80-acre parcels (half-quarter section) until June 1868, and thereafter 160-acre parcels (quarter section). Johnson signed this bill and it went into effect on June 21, 1866. Until January 1, 1867, the bill specified, only free blacks and loyal whites would be allowed access to these lands.\n\nHoward, concerned about competition with Confederates that would begin in 1867, ordered Bureau agents to inform free blacks about the Homesteading Act. Local commissioners did not disseminate the information widely, and many freedpeople were unwilling to venture into unknown territory, with insufficient supplies, based only on the promise of land after five years.\n\nThose who did attempt homesteading encountered unreliable bureaucracy that often did not comply with federal law. They also faced extremely harsh conditions, usually on low quality land that had been rejected by white settlers in years past. Nevertheless, free blacks entered about 6,500 claims to homesteads; about 1000 of these eventually resulted in property certificates.\n\nSouthern land owners regained control over almost all of the land they had claimed before the war. The national dialogue about land ownership as a key to success for freedpeople gave way (in the sphere of white politics and media) to the implementation of a plantation wage system. Under pressure from Johnson and other pro-capital politicians in the North, and from almost all of white society in the South, the Freedmen's Bureau was transformed from a protector of land rights to an enforcer of wage labor.\n\nFree blacks in the South widely believed that all land would be redistributed to those who had worked on it. They also felt strongly that they had a right to own this land. Many expected this event to occur by Christmas 1865 or New Year's 1866. Although the freedpeople formed this belief in response to the policies of the Freedmen's Bureau and Circular #13, their hopes were soon downplayed as superstition akin to belief in Santa Claus.\n\nHope for \"40 acres and a mule\" specifically was prevalent beginning in early 1865. The expectation of \"40 acres\" came from the explicit terms of Sherman's Field Order and the Freedmen's Bureau bill. The \"mule\" may have been added simply as an obvious necessity for achieving prosperity through agriculture. (\"Forty acres\" was a slogan, which though it did appear often in formal declarations, represented a wide variety of different arrangements for land ownership and farming.)\n\nA counter-rumor spread among Southern whites that when the land was \"not\" redistributed on Christmas, angry blacks would launch a violent insurrection. Alabama and Mississippi passed laws forming White paramilitary groups, which violently disarmed free black people.\n\nSouthern farmowners complained that because they were waiting for land, the newly free blacks would not readily sign long-term labor contracts. South Carolina Governor James Lawrence Orr asked Johnson in 1866 to continue pushing his land policy, writing that \"complete restoration will restore complete harmony\".\n\nBlack hopes for land came to be seen as a major barrier to economic productivity, and forces from both South and North worked hard to dispel them. Southern governments passed \"Black Codes\" to prevent blacks from owning or leasing land, and to restrict their freedom of movement. Agents of the Freedmen's Bureau now told blacks that redistribution was impossible and that they would need to perform wage labor to survive. If they could not persuade people to sign contracts, they would insist forcefully. Thomas Conway, the Bureau Commissioner in Louisiana, ordered: \"Hire them out! Cut wood! Do anything to avoid a state of idleness.\" Even Rufus Saxton, who campaigned actively for black property in the Sea Islands, issued a Circular instructing his agents to dispel the rumor of redistribution at New Year's 1866. (The unfunded Bureau drew its own finances from profits generated by freedpeople under contract.) Although some Whites continued to press for colonization, most now believed that black labor could be recuperated through the wage system.\n\nAccording to many historians, economic negotiations between blacks and whites in the South thus unfolded within the parameters dictated by the Johnson administration. Southern plantation owners pushed blacks toward servitude, while the Republican Congress pushed for free wage labor and civil rights. Eventually, under this framework, sharecropping emerged as the dominant mode of production. Some historians, such as Robert McKenzie, have challenged the prevalence of this \"standard scenario\" and argued that land ownership fluctuated significantly during the 1870s. black land ownership did increase across the South.\n\nMany blacks who had settled on property surrounding Hampton were forced to leave by various means. These included Johnson's aggressive restoration policy, Black Codes passed by the Virginia legislature, and with vigilante enforcement by returning Confederates. Union troops also forcefully evicted settlers, sometimes provoking violent standoffs; many blacks came to trust the Freedmen's Bureau no more than they did the Rebels. In 1866 Tidewater's refugee camps were still full, and many of their residents were sick and dying. Relations with Northern and Southern whites had become violently hostile. The whites (military occupiers and local residents) agreed on a plan to deport the freedpeople back to their counties of origin.\n\nAfter the turbulence of restoration, land ownership steadily increased. Hampton already had at least some black landowners, such as the family of American Revolutionary War veteran Caesar Tarrant. In 1860, about eight free Negroes owned land in Hampton. By 1870, approximately 121 free Blacks owned land in the area. Those who owned land before the war expanded their holdings.\n\nSome of the blacks in Hampton formed a community land trust called Lincon's Land Association and purchased several hundred acres of surrounding land. Land for the Hampton Institute (later Hampton University), was acquired from 1867–1872 with assistance from George Whipple of the American Missionary Association. Whipple also helped to sell 44 individual lots to black owners.\n\nMany freedpeople could not afford to purchase land immediately after the war, but earned money in jobs outside farming such as fishing and oystering. Black land ownership thus increased even faster (though not for everyone) during the 1870s. In Charles City County, three-quarters of black farm workers owned their own farms, with an average size of 36 acres. In York County, 50% owned their farms, which averaged 20 acres. (Statedwide, the number of landowners was high, but the average size of land was only 4 acres.) These relatively small farms, on relatively poor land, did not generate enormous profits. However, they did constitute a base of economic power, and blacks from this region held political office at a high rate.\n\nSurvivors of the camps also achieved a high level of land ownership and business success in the town of Hampton itself.\n\nThe May 29 amnesty proclamation did not apply to many Sea Islands landowners; however, most of these had secured special pardons directly from Johnson. General Rufus Saxton was overwhelmed with ownership claims for properties in the \"Sherman Reserve\". Saxton wrote to Howard on September 5, 1865, asking him to protect black landownership on the Sea Islands:\n\nCircular no. 15, issued days later, led the land's former owners to increase their efforts. Saxton continued to resist, passing their written requests to Howard with the comment:\n\nJohnson dispatched Howard to the Islands, with instructions to broker a \"mutually satisfactory\" settlement. Howard understood that this implied a complete restoration of pre-war ownership. He informed the islanders of Johnson's intention. But (with support from Stanton, who felt comfortable with a literal interpretation of the phrase \"mutually satisfactory\") appointed a sympathetic Captain, Alexander P. Ketchum, to form a commission overseeing the transition. Ketchum and Saxton proceeded to resist resettlement claims by Confederate whites.\n\nThe settlers formed a solidarity network to resist reclamation of their lands, and proved willing to defend their homes with vigorous displays of force. The Sea Island homesteaders also wrote directly to Howard and Johnson, insisting that the government keep its promise and maintain their homesteads.\n\nHowever, the prevailing political wind continued to favor the Southern landowners. Saxton and Ketchum lost their positions; Daniel Sickles and Robert K. Scott assumed power. In the winter of 1866–1867, Sickles turned the Union Army on the settlers, evicting all those that could not produce the correct deed. Black settlers retained control over 1,565 titles amounting to 63,000 acres. Scott recounted in his report to Congress: \"The officers of these detachments in many instances took from the freedmen their certificates, declared them worthless, and destroyed them in their presence. Upon refusing to accept the contracts offered, the people in several instances were thrust out into the highways, where, being without shelter, many perished from small-pox, which prevailed to an alarming extent among them.\"\n\nSoldiers continued to evict settlers and enforce work agreements, leading in 1867 to a large-scale armed standoff between the Army and a group of farmers who would not renew their contract with a plantation owner. General Davis Tillson in Georgia ordered a modification to the title of black landowners \"as to give a man holding one, not forty acres, but as much land as he could work \"well\", say from ten to fifteen acres—and that the balance of the land should be turned over to Messrs. Scuyler and Winchester, who should be allowed to hire the remaining freed people who wish to work for them [...]\". 90% of the land on Skidaway Island was confiscated.\n\nThe (second) Second Freedmen's Bureau bill, passed in July 1866 over Johnson's veto, stipulated the freedpeople whose lands had been restored to Confederate owners could pay $1.25 per acre for up to 20 acres of land in St. Luke and St. Helena parishes of Beaufort County, South Carolina. This district was overseen by Major Martin R. Delaney, an abolitionist and advocate of black land ownership. About 1,900 families with land titles resettled in Beaufort County, buying 19,040 acres of land at relatively low rates.\n\nMany people remained on the islands and maintained the Gullah culture of their ancestors. Several hundred thousand Gullah people live on the Sea Islands today. Their claim to the land has been threatened in recent decades by developers seeking to build vacation resorts.\n\nThomas denied their request and accused Montgomery of having promoted the petition to further his own profits. Montgomery appealed to Joseph Davis, who had returned to Mississippi in October 1865 and was staying in Vicksburg.\n\nSamuel Thomas was eventually removed from his post. Joseph Davis regained control of his plantation in 1867 and promptly sold it to Benjamin Montgomery for $300,000. This price, $75 per acre, was comparatively low. The transaction itself was illegal because the Mississippi Black Codes outlawed sale of property to blacks; Davis and Montgomery therefore conducted the deal in secret.\n\nMontgomery invited free blacks to settle the land and work there. In 1887, led by Benjamin's son Isaiah Montgomery, the group founded a new settlement at Mound Bayou, Mississippi. Mound Bayou remains an autonomous and virtually all-Black community.\n\nThaddeus Stevens and Charles Sumner continued to support land reform for freedpeople, but were opposed by a large bloc of politicians who did not want to violate property rights or redistribute capital.\n\nMany radical Northerners withdrew their support for land reform in the years following the war. One reason for the shift in political opinion was fear by the Republicans that land ownership might lead Blacks to align with Democrats for economic reasons. In general, politicians turned their focus to the legal status of freedpeople. In the analysis of W. E. B. Du Bois, black suffrage became more politically palatable precisely as an inexpensive alternative to well-funded agrarian reform.\n\nBy the 1870s, blacks had abandoned hope of federal land redistribution, but many still saw \"forty acres and a mule\" as the key to freedom. Black land ownership in the South increased steadily despite the failure of federal Reconstruction. One quarter of black farmers in the South owned their land by 1900. Near the coast, they owned an average of 27 acres; inland, an average of 48 acres. By comparison, 63% of Southern white farmers owned their land. Most of this land was simply bought through private transactions.\n\nIn 1910, black Americans owned 15,000,000 acres of land, most of it in Alabama, Mississippi, North Carolina, and South Carolina. This figure has since declined to 5,500,000 acres in 1980 and to 2,000,000 acres in 1997. Most of this land is not the area held by black families in 1910; beyond the \"Black Belt\", it is located in Texas, Oklahoma, and California. The total number of Black farmers has decreased from 925,708 in 1920 to 18,000 in 1997; the number of white farmers has also decreased, but much more slowly. black American land ownership has diminished more than that of any other ethnic group, while white land ownership has increased. black families who inherit land across generations without obtaining an explicit title (often resulting in tenancy in common by multiple descendents) may have difficulty gaining government benefits and risk losing their land completely. Outright fraud and lynchings have also been used to strip black people of their land.\n\nBlack landowners are common targets of eminent domain laws invoked to make way for public works projects. At Harris Neck in the Sea Islands, a group of Gullah freedpeople retained 2,681 acres of high-quality land due to the Will of the plantation owner Marg[a]ret Ann Harris. About 100 black farmers continued to live at Harris Neck until 1942, when they were forced off the land because of a plan to build an Air Force base. The land was used freely by local white authorities until 1962, when it was turned over to the federal Fish and Wildlife Service and became Harris Neck National Wildlife Refuge. Ownership of the land remains contested.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has long been viewed as a cause for the decline in black agriculture. According to a 1997 report by the USDA's own Civil Rights Action Team:\n\nThere are some who call the USDA 'the last plantation.' An 'old line' department, USDA was one of the last federal agencies to integrate and perhaps the last to include women and minorities in leadership positions. Considered a stubborn bureaucracy and slow to change, USDA is also perceived as playing a key role in what some see as a conspiracy to force minority and socially disadvantaged farmers off their land through discriminatory loan practices.\n\nA class action lawsuit has accused the USDA of systematic discrimination against black farmers from 1981–1999. In \"Pigford v. Glickman\" (1999), District Court Judge Paul L. Friedman ruled in favor of the farmers and ordered the USDA to pay financial damages for loss of land and revenue. However, the status of full compensation for affected farmers remains unresolved.\n\nThe phrase \"40 acres and a mule\" has come to symbolize the broken promise that Reconstruction policies would offer economic justice for African Americans.\n\nThe \"40 acres and a mule\" promise featured prominently in the \"Pigford\" decision. Ruling that the United States Department of Agriculture had discriminated against African-American farmers, Friedman wrote: \"Forty acres and a mule. The government broke that promise to African American farmers. Over one hundred years later, the USDA broke its promise to Mr. James Beverly.\"\n\n\"40 Acres and a Mule\" is often discussed in the context of reparations for slavery. However, strictly speaking, the various policies offering 'forty acres' provided land for political and economic reasons—and with a price tag—and not as unconditional compensation for lifetimes of unpaid labor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "193786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193786", "title": "Fourteen Points", "text": "Fourteen Points\n\nThe Fourteen Points was a statement of principles for peace that was to be used for peace negotiations in order to end World War I. The principles were outlined in a January 8, 1918 speech on war aims and peace terms to the United States Congress by President Woodrow Wilson. But his main Allied colleagues (Georges Clemenceau of France, David Lloyd George of the United Kingdom, and Vittorio Orlando of Italy) were skeptical of the applicability of Wilsonian idealism.\n\nThe United States had joined the Allied Powers in fighting the Central Powers on April 6, 1917. Its entry into the war had in part been due to Germany's resumption of submarine warfare against merchant ships trading with France and Britain and also the interception of the Zimmermann Telegram. However, Wilson wanted to avoid the United States' involvement in the long-standing European tensions between the great powers; if America was going to fight, he wanted to try to separate that participation in the war from nationalistic disputes or ambitions. The need for moral aims was made more important, when after the fall of the Russian government, the Bolsheviks disclosed secret treaties made between the Allies. Wilson's speech also responded to Vladimir Lenin's Decree on Peace of November 1917, immediately after the October Revolution in 1917.\n\nThe speech made by Wilson took many domestic progressive ideas and translated them into foreign policy (free trade, open agreements, democracy and self-determination). Three days earlier United Kingdom Prime Minister Lloyd George had made a speech setting out Britain's war aims which bore some similarity to Wilson's speech but which proposed reparations be paid by the Central Powers and which was more vague in its promises to the non-Turkish subjects of the Ottoman Empire. The Fourteen Points in the speech were based on the research of the Inquiry, a team of about 150 advisers led by foreign-policy adviser Edward M. House, into the topics likely to arise in the anticipated peace conference.\n\nThe immediate cause of the United States' entry into World War I in April 1917 was the German announcement of renewed unrestricted submarine warfare and the subsequent sinking of ships with Americans on board. But President Wilson's war aims went beyond the defense of maritime interests. In his War Message to Congress, Wilson declared that the United States' objective was \"to vindicate the principles of peace and justice in the life of the world.\" In several speeches earlier in the year, Wilson sketched out his vision of an end to the war that would bring a \n\nPresident Wilson subsequently initiated a secret series of studies named the Inquiry, primarily focused on Europe, and carried out by a group in New York which included geographers, historians and political scientists; the group was directed by Colonel House. Their job was to study Allied and American policy in virtually every region of the globe and analyze economic, social, and political facts likely to come up in discussions during the peace conference. The group produced and collected nearly 2,000 separate reports and documents plus at least 1,200 maps. The studies culminated in a speech by Wilson to Congress on January 8, 1918, wherein he articulated America's long-term war objectives. The speech was the clearest expression of intention made by any of the belligerent nations, and it projected Wilson's progressive domestic policies into the international arena.\n\nThe speech, known as the Fourteen Points, was developed from a set of diplomatic points by Wilson and territorial points drafted by the Inquiry's general secretary, Walter Lippmann, and his colleagues, Isaiah Bowman, Sidney Mezes, and David Hunter Miller. Lippmann's draft territorial points were a direct response to the secret treaties of the European Allies, which Lippmann had been shown by Secretary of War Newton D. Baker. Lippmann's task according to House was \"to take the secret treaties, analyze the parts which were tolerable, and separate them from those which we regarded as intolerable, and then develop a position which conceded as much to the Allies as it could, but took away the poison. ... It was all keyed upon the secret treaties.\"\n\nIn the speech, Wilson directly addressed what he perceived as the causes for the world war by calling for the abolition of secret treaties, a reduction in armaments, an adjustment in colonial claims in the interests of both native peoples and colonists, and freedom of the seas. Wilson also made proposals that would ensure world peace in the future. For example, he proposed the removal of economic barriers between nations, the promise of self-determination for national minorities, and a world organization that would guarantee the \"political independence and territorial integrity [of] great and small states alike\"—a League of Nations.\n\nThough Wilson's idealism pervades the Fourteen Points, he also had more practical objectives in mind. He hoped to keep Russia in the war by convincing the Bolsheviks that they would receive a better peace from the Allies, to bolster Allied morale, and to undermine German war support. The address was well received in the United States and Allied nations, and even by Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin, as a landmark of enlightenment in international relations. Wilson subsequently used the Fourteen Points as the basis for negotiating the Treaty of Versailles that ended the war.\n\nIn his speech to Congress, President Wilson declared fourteen points which he regarded as the only possible basis of an enduring peace. They were according to him:\n\nPresident Wilson at first considered abandoning his speech after Lloyd George delivered a speech outlining British war aims, many of which were similar to Wilson's aspirations, at Caxton Hall on January 5, 1918. Lloyd George stated that he had consulted leaders of \"the Great Dominions overseas\" before making his speech, so it would appear Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Newfoundland were in broad agreement. Wilson was persuaded by his adviser Colonel House to go ahead, and his speech overshadowed Lloyd George's, and is better remembered by posterity.\n\nThe speech was made without prior coordination or consultation with Wilson's counterparts in Europe. Clemenceau, upon hearing of the Fourteen Points, was said to have sarcastically proclaimed \"The good Lord only had ten!\" (). As a major public statement of war aims, it became the basis for the terms of the German surrender at the end of the First World War. After the speech, Colonel House worked to secure the acceptance of the Fourteen Points by Entente leaders. On October 16, 1918, President Woodrow Wilson and Sir William Wiseman, the head of British intelligence in America, had an interview. This interview was one reason why the German government accepted the Fourteen Points and the stated principles for peace negotiations.\n\nThe report was made as negotiation points, and later the Fourteen Points were accepted by France and Italy on November 1, 1918. Britain later signed off on all of the points except the freedom of the seas. The United Kingdom also wanted Germany to make reparation payments for the war, and thought that should be added to the Fourteen Points. The speech was delivered 10 months before the Armistice with Germany and became the basis for the terms of the German surrender, as negotiated at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919.\n\nThe speech was widely disseminated as an instrument of Allied propaganda and was translated into many languages for global dissemination. Copies were also dropped behind German lines, to encourage the Central Powers to surrender in the expectation of a just settlement. Indeed, in a note sent to Wilson by Prince Maximilian of Baden, the German imperial chancellor, in October 1918 requested an immediate armistice and peace negotiations on the basis of the Fourteen Points.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt, in an article \"The League of Nations\" published by \"Metropolitan Magazine\" (January 1919), warned: \"If the League of Nations is built on a document as high-sounding and as meaningless as the speech in which Mr. Wilson laid down his fourteen points, it will simply add one more scrap to the diplomatic waste paper basket. Most of these fourteen points ... would be interpreted ... to mean anything or nothing.\"\n\nSenator William Borah after 1918 wished \"this treacherous and treasonable scheme\" of the League of Nations to be \"buried in hell\" and promised that if he had his way it would be \"20,000 leagues under the sea\".\n\nPresident Wilson became physically ill at the beginning of the Paris Peace Conference, giving way to French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau to advance demands substantially different from Wilson's Fourteen Points. Clemenceau viewed Germany as having unfairly attained an economic victory over France, due to the heavy damage German forces dealt to France's industries even during the German retreat, and expressed dissatisfaction with France's allies at the peace conference.\n\nNotably, Article 231 of the Treaty of Versailles, which would become known as the War Guilt Clause, was seen by the Germans as assigning full responsibility for the war and its damages on Germany; however, the same clause was included in all peace treaties and historian Sally Marks has noted that only German diplomats saw it as assigning responsibility for the war. The Allies would initially assess 269 billion marks in reparations. In 1921, this figure was established at 192 billion marks. However, only a fraction of this total had to be paid. The figure was designed to look imposing and show the public that Germany was being punished, while it also recognized what Germany could not realistically pay. Germany's ability and willingness to pay that sum continues to be a topic of debate among historians. Germany was also denied an air force, and the German army was not to exceed 100,000 men.\n\nThe text of the Fourteen Points had been widely distributed in Germany as propaganda prior to the end of the war, and was well known by the Germans. The differences between this document and the final Treaty of Versailles fueled great anger in Germany. German outrage over reparations and the War Guilt Clause is viewed as a likely contributing factor to the rise of National Socialism. At the end of World War I, foreign armies had only entered Germany's prewar borders twice: the advance of Russian troops into the Eastern border of Prussia, and following the Battle of Mulhouse the settlement of the French army in the Thann valley. This lack of any important Allied incursions contributed to the popularization of the stab-in-the-back myth in Germany after the war.\n\nWoodrow Wilson was awarded the 1919 Nobel Peace Prize for his peace-making efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35878013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35878013", "title": "Hazelwood School District v. United States", "text": "Hazelwood School District v. United States\n\nHazelwood School Dist. v. United States, 433 U.S. 299 (1977), was a court case argued before the United States Supreme Court on April 27, 1977. It concerned employment discrimination and was decided on June 27, 1977.\n\nIn 1969, the Hazelwood School District in Missouri hired its first black teacher, and continued hiring black teachers ever since. In 1972, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was amended to apply to public employers, including school districts, making the hiring of black teachers almost a necessity in order to avoid liability. However, due to statistical disparities in the hiring practices of this particular school district, as well as 55 individual cases of alleged discrimination, the United States brought suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri to enjoin the school district from discriminating based on race. The District Court found in favor of the school district, saying that the ratio of black teachers to white was roughly equivalent to the ratio of black students to white.\n\nThe United States appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which reversed the District Court's decision. This judgment was based on their decision to disregard the comparison to the student population, and instead compare the Hazelwood hiring statistics to the statistics of the surrounding area, including the St. Louis, MO school districts, saying that those numbers would more accurately reflect the \"relevant labor market[.]\" Hazelwood appealed to the Supreme Court to review the Court of Appeals decision, arguing that the relevant labor market statistics should not include the St. Louis numbers, because that city had imposed very strict hiring guidelines to help overcome past racial discrimination.\n\nThe Supreme Court decided that, in this case, the proximity of the questionable hiring statistics to the application of Title VII to public employers was very relevant. The primary reason for the ultimate decision of the Court was that \"pre-Act\" hiring practices, that were perfectly legal under Title VII until the 1972 amendment, might have caused the statistical disparities in question. Based on that fact and the warning in the recent \"Teamsters\" decision that, when considering statistics as evidence of discrimination, all of the facts must be carefully considered, the Court vacated the decision of the Court of Appeals and remanded to the District Court for further proceedings, instructing them to consider whether the pre-Act practices might have played a predominant role in the statistics.\n\nThis case solidified the decision in \"Teamsters v. United States\", where the Court decided that statistics could play a leading role in showing a \"prima facie\" case of discrimination under Title VII, but that they must be used with great care. The \"Teamsters\" decision was very important in the evolution of disparate Impact jurisprudence, and made it much easier for the victims of discrimination to bring cases against their employers. \"Hazelwood\" somewhat weakened that decision, however, by noting that statistics which were caused by actions taken legally, before the application of anti-discrimination laws, could not be used in such a way, and that an employer must be given a chance to prove that that might be the case, before a \"prima facie\" case can be said to have been established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42006389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42006389", "title": "Independent Venetians", "text": "Independent Venetians\n\nIndependent Venetians (, VI) is a Venetist and separatist political party active in Veneto.\n\nVI emerged in February 2014 as a split from Venetian Independence (IV), the most established separatist party in Veneto at the time. After an internal struggle and a congress, during which his role of president was cancelled from the party's constitution, Luca Azzano Cantarutti had left the party in January, after a power struggle with Alessio Morosin.\n\nSince its formation, the party tried to join forces with other alike parties and groups, except IV. Chiefly, Azzano Cantarutti and VI were instrumental in the foundation of \"United for Independent Veneto\", along with Veneto State (VS), Liga Veneta Repubblica (LVR) and Popular Future (FP), in March 2014. The coalition was transformed into \"We Independent Veneto\" (NVI), after the entry of other parties, notably including North-East Project (PNE) and Chiavegato for Independence, in July 2014.\n\nAfter the exit of Chiavegato and his group from the alliance and their alignment with Morosin's IV, the remaining parties of NVI formed a joint list for the 2015 regional election named Independence We Veneto (INV), a sort of re-edition of 2010's North-East Union, but with a separatist platform and in support of Luca Zaia, incumbent President of Veneto and candidate of Liga Veneta–Lega Nord. In the election, the list won 2.7% of the vote (0.2% more than IV) and Antonio Guadagnini of VS was elected regional councillor in the provincial constituency of Vicenza, thus becoming INV's practical leader.\n\nHowever, after Guadagnini's exit from INV and his launch of We Are Veneto (SV), Azzano Cantarutti led VI and INV into an alliance with Great North (GN).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9775451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9775451", "title": "Internationalist League of Norway", "text": "Internationalist League of Norway\n\nThe Internationalist League of Norway ( (FIN) is a group of revolutionary socialists, set up in 1999, working in sympathy with the Fourth International. Until 2002 FIN worked as a current within the Red Electoral Alliance advocating that the Red Electoral Alliance should be a broad party for revolutionaries on Norway, based on internationalism, anti-stalinism and internal democracy. Since 2002 FIN operates both within the Red Electoral Alliance and the Socialist Left Party.\n"}
{"id": "6711193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711193", "title": "Jewish lobby", "text": "Jewish lobby\n\nThe term Jewish lobby is used to describe organized lobbying attributed to Jews on domestic and foreign policy decisions, as a political participant of representative government, conducted predominantly in the Jewish diaspora in a number of Western countries. While at times self-described, usage of the term is viewed as inaccurate, and, particularly when used to allege disproportionate Jewish influence, it can be perceived as pejorative or may constitute antisemitism.\n\nIn his \"Dictionary of Politics\" (1992), Walter John Raymond describes the term \"Jewish Lobby\" as \"A conglomeration of approximately thirty-four Jewish political organizations in the United States which make joint and separate efforts to lobby for their interests in the United States, as well as for the interests of the State of Israel.\" He also notes that \"[a]mong those organizations which are most actively involved in lobbying activities at federal, state and local levels of political and governmental institutions are: the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), the American Jewish Committee... and the B'nai B'rith.\" Dominique Vidal, writing in \"Le Monde diplomatique\", states that in the United States the term is \"self-described\" and it \"is only one of many influence groups that have official standing with institutions and authorities.\"\n\nThe B'nai B'rith Anti-Defamation Commission of Australia states in its description, \"It is important to recognise that lobbies are natural parts of pluralist, democratic societies such as Australia. Lobbying constitutes a mainstream method of influencing government policy, as a means of enhancing representative government. As such, just as other communities and interest groups have lobbies, there is a 'Jewish lobby' – an unwieldy group of individuals and organisations devoted to supporting the needs and interests of the Jewish community. This Jewish lobby is a player in representative government, and its very existence confirms the ordinary place Jews have within Australian politics. The assumption, however, that Jews have a disproportionate power and influence over decision making is what transforms a descriptive reality about politics to an antisemitic argument about Jewish power.\"\n\nNoting the high voting rate of individual American Jews in elections, J.J. Goldberg, editorial director of \"The Forward\", stated in a 2004 speech that \"The Jewish lobby... is actually more than just a dozen organizations. The Anti-Defamation League, the American Jewish Committee, Hadassah, of course, AIPAC, but it is also the impact of the Jewish role. ... So, the Jewish influence is a lot of things. It is the organizations, it's the vote, it's fundraising.\"\n\nMitchell Bard, director of the non-profit Jewish Virtual Library, writes that: \"Reference is often made to the 'Jewish lobby' in an effort to describe Jewish influence, but this term is both vague and inadequate. While it is true that American Jews are sometimes represented by lobbyists, such direct efforts to influence policy-makers are but a small part of the lobby's ability to shape policy.\" Bard argues the term Israel lobby is more accurate, because it comprises both formal and informal elements (which includes public opinion), and \"...because a large proportion of the lobby is made up of non-Jews.\" In his 1987 work, \"The Lobby: Jewish Political Power and American Foreign Policy\", Edward Tivnan states that the term \"needed some fine-tuning; what was most at issue... was the influence of the 'pro-Israel lobby.'\"\n\nIn a letter to the editor of the \"New York Times Sunday Review of Books\", responding to a review by Leslie Gelb of their 2007 book \"The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy\", University of Chicago professor John Mearsheimer and Harvard University professor Stephen Walt write: \"Gelb refers repeatedly to a 'Jewish lobby,' despite the fact that we never employ the term in our book. Indeed, we explicitly rejected this label as inaccurate and misleading, both because the lobby includes non-Jews like the Christian Zionists and because many Jewish Americans do not support the hard-line policies favored by its most powerful elements.\" The previous week, in a live Q&A session at \"The Washington Post\", they stated they themselves \"never use the term 'Jewish lobby' because the lobby is defined by its political agenda, not by religion or ethnicity.\"\n\nRobert S. Wistrich, of the International Center for the Study of Antisemitism, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, sees reference to the phrase, when used to describe an \"all-powerful 'Jewish Lobby' that prevents justice in the Middle East\", as reliance on a classic antisemitic stereotype.<ref name=\"Klug/Wistrich\">Klug, Brian & Wistrich, Robert S. \"Correspondence between Prof. Robert Wistrich and Brian Klug: When Is Opposition to Israel and Its Policies Anti-Semitic?\" , International Center for the Study of Antisemitism, Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Retrieved January 11, 2008: \"Does he or she rely on classic anti-Semitic stereotypes in so doing: for example, by dredging up the alleged Jewish/Zionist 'conspiracy' to dominate the world, or by evoking Jewish/Israeli 'warmongers' who supposedly run American foreign policy; or through referring to an all-powerful \"Jewish Lobby\" that prevents justice in the Middle East.\"</ref>\n\nBruno Bettelheim detested the term, arguing \"The self-importance of Jews combined with the paranoia of the anti-Semite had created the image of this lobby.\" Michael Lasky describes the term as an \"unfortunate phrase\", and \"imagines\" that Alexander Walker's use of it while writing about the Nazi films of Leni Riefenstahl was not intended pejoratively.\n\nThe B'nai B'rith Anti-Defamation Commission of Australia states that \"the stereotype of the 'Jewish lobby' is that the Jewish engagement in politics and policy debate is above and beyond the ordinary participation of a group in public policy-making. It paints Jewish involvement as surreptitious, and as subverting the democratic process. It alleges that a 'Jewish lobby', through bribery, bullying and manipulation, pressures politicians to act against their will and duties.\" Michael Visontay, editor of Australia's \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", wrote in 2003 that \"The way the phrase 'Jewish lobby' has been bandied about in numerous letters implies there is something inherently sinister in lobbying when Jews do it.\" According to Geoffrey Brahm Levey and Philip Mendes, the term is used in Australia as a pejorative description of the way in which the Jewish community influences the Liberal Party \"by talking to its leaders and making them aware of Jewish wishes and views\".\n\nDominique Schnapper, Chantal Bordes-Benayoun and Freddy Raphaėl write that following the 1991 Gulf War, the term \"began to be heard in political life\" in France. Vidal writes that the term has been used there exclusively by the French far right as \"a phrase that combines standard anti-semitic fantasies about Jewish finance, media control and power; the term is the contemporary equivalent of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". Loyola University Chicago professor Wiley Feinstein wrote in 2003 that \"there is much talk of the 'Jewish lobby' in the Italian Press and in Europe\", describing the term as \"a phrase[] of scorn for Jews and Judaism\".\n\nWilliam Safire wrote in 1993 that in the United Kingdom \"Jewish lobby\" is used as an \"even more pejorative\" term for \"the 'Israel lobby'\". Susan Jacobs of Manchester Metropolitan University writes that the phrase \"Jewish lobby\", when used \"without mentioning other 'lobbies' or differentiating Jews who have different political positions on a number of questions, including Israel and Palestine\", is a contemporary form of the fear of a Jewish conspiracy.\n\nIn a 2004 speech, Goldberg said, \"There has been an awful lot of talk in the last few years about the rise of the Jewish lobby and the influence of the Jewish lobby. It used to be that you couldn't talk about this sort of thing. When I wrote [the book] \"Jewish Power\" in 1996... I was accused by various Jewish lobbyists of inflating and buying into the old myths of international Jewish conspiracies simply by the use of the title.\" Goldberg disagrees with the sensitivity towards the use of the term, arguing that: \"There is such a thing as a Jewish lobby, that the network of organizations that works together to put across what might be called the Jewish community's view on world affairs is not insignificant, it's not an invention, but it is not some sort of all-powerful octopus that it's sometimes portrayed as these days.\" Mearsheimer and Walt wrote in 2006 that \"even the Israeli media refer to America's 'Jewish Lobby'\", and stated the following year that \"AIPAC and the Conference of Presidents and the Israeli media themselves refer to America's 'Jewish Lobby'.\"\n\nAfter South African activist, Christian cleric, and Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu used it in a 1985 speech at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, a supporter wrote him privately urging him to avoid the phrase, stating it was \"language... normally associated with the less than philo-Semitic elements of our acquaintance\". Tutu used the phrase again in a 2002 editorial in \"The Guardian\", stating \"People are scared in this country [the US], to say wrong is wrong because the Jewish lobby is powerful – very powerful. Well, so what? For goodness sake, this is God's world!\" This use was criticized by Melanie Phillips of the \"Daily Mail\". When he edited and reprinted parts of his speech in 2005, Tutu replaced the words \"Jewish lobby\" with \"pro-Israeli lobby\". In 2007, an invitation to Tutu to speak at the University of St. Thomas in Minnesota was rescinded because of the speech; writing in \"Mother Jones\", Justin Elliot stated \"Tutu's use of the phrase 'Jewish lobby' is regrettable, mainly because the pro-Israel lobby he is referring to is not made up exclusively of Jews, example Texas preacher John Hagee's Christians United for Israel. But one minor slip five years ago is hardly grounds for blacklisting him.\"\n\nChris Davies, MEP for the northwest of England was forced to resign in 2006 as leader of the Liberal Democrats group in the European Parliament after writing to a constituent \"I shall denounce the influence of the Jewish lobby that seems to have far too great a say over the political decision-making process in many countries.\" In comments to TotallyJewish.Com he \"confessed he didn't know the difference between referring to the 'pro Israel lobby' and the 'Jewish lobby',\" and added \"I'm quite prepared to accept that I don't understand the semantics of some of these things.\" Commenting on Davies' use of the term, David Hirsh of \"The Guardian\" wrote that Davies \"had to resign because his laudable instinct to side with the underdog was not tempered by care, thought or self-education.\" He compared Davies' rhetoric with the \"care to avoid openly antisemitic rhetoric taken by sophisticates like Mearsheimer and Walt and Robert Fisk.\"\n\nA 2007 editorial in \"The New York Sun\" accused Richard Dawkins, a British evolutionary biologist and writer, of repeating antisemitic conspiracy theories after he used the term in an interview published in \"The Guardian\". In the interview Dawkins said: \"When you think about how fantastically successful the Jewish lobby has been, though, in fact, they are less numerous I am told - religious Jews anyway - than atheists and [yet they] more or less monopolise American foreign policy as far as many people can see. So if atheists could achieve a small fraction of that influence, the world would be a better place.\" In a \"National Review\" column discussing the influence of \"high-profile atheists\" on the American left, Arthur C. Brooks wrote that Dawkins' claim was \"anti-Semitic, slanders religion, and asserts victimhood.\" David Cesarani, commenting in \"The Guardian\", stated that \"Mearsheimer and Walt would doubtless chide Dawkins for using the term 'Jewish lobby', which they studiously avoid in order to give no truck to anti-Jewish innuendo.\"\n\nIn his book \"Jewish Power\", Goldberg writes that in the United States the \"Jewish lobby\" for decades played a leadership role in formulating American policy on issues such as civil rights, separation of church and state, and immigration, guided by a liberalism that was a complex mixture of Jewish tradition, the experience of persecution, and self-interest. It was thrust into prominence following the Nixon Administration's sharp shift of American policy towards significant military and foreign aid support for Israel following the 1973 Yom Kippur War.\n\nTivnan writes that a \"full-fledged 'Jewish lobby'\" was developed in 1943, in which the moderates represented by Stephen Samuel Wise and the American Jewish Committee were defeated by supporters of Abba Hillel Silver and \"the maximalist goal of a 'Jewish Commonwealth'\" at the American Jewish and Biltmore Conferences. Silver became the new leader of American Zionism, with his call for \"loud diplomacy\", and he then \"cranked up the Zionist Organization of America's one-man lobbying operation in Washington—renaming it the American Zionist Emergency Council (AZEC)—and began to mobilize American Jewry into a mass movement.\"\n\nFormer \"New York Times\" journalist Youssef Ibrahim writes: \"That there is a Jewish lobby in America concerned with the well-being of Israel is a silly question. It is insane to ask whether the 6 million American Jews should be concerned about the 6 million Israeli Jews, particularly in view of the massacre of another 6 million Jews in the Holocaust. It's elementary, my dear Watson: Any people who do not care for their own are not worthy of concern. And what the Israel lobby does is what all ethnic lobbies — Greek, Armenian, Latvian, Irish, Cuban, and others — do in this democracy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12420413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12420413", "title": "Jochum de Lange", "text": "Jochum de Lange\n\nJochum de Lange was the leader of \"Strilekrigen\", an 18th-century farmer's rebellion, in Bergen, Norway. He led several thousand men to protest against the high taxes which were imposed on the poor farmers and fishermen of Norway.\n\nJochum de Lange was a former sailor who settled down as a farmer on the island of Flatøy, Norway. He was said to be a charismatic man, who was married three times, and who easily gained other peoples trust. He was a visionary and a man of experience, but adventurous with a longing to return to the sea. Jochum de Lange would die in a Bergen prison.\nIn autumn 1762, the national government in Copenhagen established an extra per capita tax for every person over twelve years, which was later reduced to a charge per household. These extra taxes were intended to help pay loans from foreign governments and to support the price of the Danish-Norwegian currency at the stock market in Hamburg.\n\nStrilekrigen took place in Bergen on 18 April 1765, when about 2,000 common people from Nordhordland poured into Bergen to protest against the harsh action of the extra tax. The extra tax had hit the poor farmers and fishermen in rural areas around Bergen particularly hard. The protests, which became violent, were particularly directed at Ulrik Fredrik de Cicignon (1698–1772), the local sheriff (\"stiftamtmann\") .\n\nRebellions of this magnitude was unprecedented in the 18th century, and officials in Copenhagen were appalled. The authorities send an inquiry north consisting of top officials on a warship. The leaders of the rebellion were indicted by the general court and were convicted of disturbance of public order. The result was that a few farmers ended in prison for life after being pardoned from the death sentence. The extra tax was later abolished in Norway in 1772 but continued in force in Denmark. Ulrik Fredrik de Cicignon sought and received dismissal in May 1766. He moved to Sønderborg in the Duchy of Schleswig.\n\nOlav Flatøy, a businessman and writer from Flatøy, wrote a novel concerning life on Flatøy in the mid-18th century. It was called \"Anne Cathrine\", and told the story of Jocum de Lange, his third wife and her struggles after his death. This novel was printed as a serial in Bergens Tidende in 1961.\n\nIn 2013 the music festival Flatøy Rock introduced Jochum de Lange as the mascot and theme for the festival. This was done in an effort to raise awareness to the history and heritage of the people in Nordhordland.\n"}
{"id": "16999784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16999784", "title": "Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District", "text": "Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District\n\nPrimarily a wholesaler of water to cities and improvement districts within Salt Lake County, Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District is a political subdivision of the State of Utah and one of the largest water districts in the state. It was created in 1951 under the Water Conservancy District Act and was called Salt Lake County Water Conservancy District until 1999. Jordan Valley Water is the largest petitioner of the Central Utah Project, a Federal water project which will annually provide up to of water to Jordan Valley Water by 2021.\n\nJordan Valley Water is governed by a board of nine Trustees who represent eight geographical divisions. They are nominated either by the Salt Lake County Council or a city council, depending upon the division they represent. The Governor then appoints Trustees for a four-year term from those nominated.\n\nJordan Valley Water has a retail service area primarily in unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County, making up about ten percent of its deliveries. Approximately ninety percent of its municipal water is delivered on a wholesale basis to cities and water districts. In addition, Jordan Valley Water treats and delivers water to Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake & Sandy on a contractual basis for delivery to Salt Lake City and Sandy City, even though neither city is within Jordan Valley Water's service boundaries. Jordan Valley Water also delivers untreated water to irrigators in Salt Lake and Utah Counties to meet commitments under irrigation exchanges.\n\nJordan Valley Water Conservancy District is responsible to plan for long-term facilities and monitor water use to ensure that a sustainable supply of water will be available for the 600,000+ residents within its service area. Given that Utah is the second-driest State in the nation, this presents some unique challenges. Generally, Utahns use more water per capita than residents of other states, with the exception of Nevada. There are a limited number of potential new sources of water which can be developed; however, doing so will be expensive both financially and environmentally. With a goal of reducing water use 25 percent by 2025, Jordan Valley Water launched a major conservation campaign in 1999 in the hopes of extending water supplies for future generations without having to pursue as many new sources.\n\nWith approximately 65 percent of culinary water used on outdoor landscaping, it was decided that outdoor water would be the place to begin: educate the public about more efficient ways to water their landscapes, and to teach them that water-efficient landscaping can be beautiful.\n\nIn 1999, Jordan Valley Water developed the conservation education campaign \"Slow The Flow, Save H2O\" as a major component of its water conservation efforts. The campaign was successful, spread statewide, and has been adopted by every major water district in Utah.\n\nIn 2000, Jordan Valley Water began developing waterwise demonstration gardens at its headquarters site. The gardens have seen a number of expansions since then and now comprise nearly five acres of display gardens called Conservation Garden Park. A new LEED Platinum-designed Education Center was opened to the public in 2013. This center furthers opportunities for outreach and education.\n\n"}
{"id": "11366634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11366634", "title": "Katie Hopkins", "text": "Katie Hopkins\n\nKatie Olivia Hopkins (born 13 February 1975) is an English media personality, columnist, radio presenter and businesswoman. She was a contestant in the third series of \"The Apprentice\" in 2007 and following further appearances in the media she became a columnist for British national newspapers. She began writing for \"The Sun\" in 2013 and the \"Daily Mail\"s website \"MailOnline\" from 2015 to 2017. She has also been a presenter for the talk radio station LBC. \n\nHopkins has been accused of racism by journalists, advocacy groups and politicians for her comments about migrants. Her role at LBC was terminated in May 2017 following her comments on Twitter about the Manchester Arena bombing.\n\nIn 2016, \"Mail Online\" was forced to pay £150,000 to a Muslim family whom Hopkins had falsely accused of extremist links. In a 2017 libel case, Hopkins was required to pay £24,000 in damages and £107,000 in legal costs to the food writer Jack Monroe after making defamatory remarks on Twitter. Later in 2017, \"Mail Online\" was forced to pay substantial damages and legal costs to a teacher about whom Hopkins had made false claims. A day before, in late November, it had become known Hopkins' contract with the media outlet had not been renewed. Her final column was published on 5 October 2017. She joined the Canadian far-right website The Rebel Media in January 2018.\n\nKatie Hopkins was born on 13 February 1975, in Barnstaple, Devon. Her father was an electrical engineer for the local Electricity Board and her mother was a bank teller. She has an older sister. She was raised in Bideford, attended a private convent school from age 3 to 16, played sports and learned to play the piano and violin. As a child she believed she was \"going to be the colonel of the forces. I loved the military. I loved the discipline, the rigour, the big shouty men.\"\n\nHopkins told Sathnam Sanghera of \"The Times\" in June 2015 that she applied to study Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at Magdalen College, Oxford. She passed the Oxford University entrance exam, but was rejected at the interview stage. Disappointed, and putting the failure down to an absence of \"a bit of coaching\", she instead studied economics at the University of Exeter. She felt that her time at university was \"redeemed\" by her sponsorship from the British Army's Intelligence Corps, and spent her weekends with the Officers' Training Corps. This she found \"really fun, lying around in forests with guns having a brilliant time\".\n\nShe completed her military training at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, but suffered an epileptic seizure during the final passing-out ceremony, and as a result was unable to take up her commission. Hopkins said she kept her epilepsy secret whilst attending Sandhurst as this would have prevented her from being commissioned. Instead, she joined a business consultancy and moved to Manhattan, New York City, before returning to the UK in 2005. She joined the Met Office as a global brand consultant in September 2006.\n\nHopkins was allowed to take unpaid leave from her job from the Met Office as part of her probationary period of employment to take part in series three of the reality TV show \"The Apprentice\" in 2006. In the format used at that time, contestants in \"The Apprentice\" competed for a £100,000-a-year job working for the businessman Alan Sugar. Hopkins rejected Sugar's offer of a place in the final episode of the programme, citing problems regarding childcare provision for her daughters, and withdrew from the competition at the end of the penultimate task. The episode gained 6.2 million viewers, while the following \"!\" episode, in which Hopkins was interviewed, was watched by 3.1 million.\n\nThroughout her tenure on \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins made several critical comments on camera. The comments were directed at her fellow contestants, viewers of television shopping channels, maternity leave, fake tans, and overweight people. \"Four Weddings and a Funeral\" and \"Notting Hill\" writer Richard Curtis expressed his distaste for Hopkins, jokingly vowing to kill her when he accepted his Fellowship award at the 2007 BAFTA awards. When video clips of her comments about other candidates were shown on \"The Apprentice: You're Fired!\", following up on the main programme, Hopkins explained that they were \"quite funny\". Michelle Mone, the founder of lingerie company Ultimo and a guest on the panel, verbally attacked Hopkins, calling her \"exceptionally selfish\", said she was not to be trusted, and accused her of giving \"businesswomen a bad name\". Sugar was criticised over his questioning of Hopkins about her childcare arrangements. He was accused of violating the 1975 Sex Discrimination Act. The incident received substantial media comment. Sugar argued his case in an interview with GMTV host Fiona Phillips, stating that he was aware of the rules.\n\nIn June 2007, Hopkins lost her job at the Met Office, which said that she did not meet the required standards to complete her probationary period, and confirmed that her performance on \"The Apprentice\" and confessions about her private life were a factor in her dismissal. Hopkins later stated that the media were informed of her dismissal an hour after she was fired. After her appearance on \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins signed two deals to sell her story, one with the \"News of the World\" newspaper and the other with EMAP, the company behind \"Heat\" and \"Grazia\" magazines.\n\nHopkins said in an interview with BBC Radio Kent that she had great respect for Sugar, and that she believed she would have won the programme had she been in the final episode. She also said that the media's attitudes towards her did not affect her but did affect her family. She made a similar claim of hypothetical victory in an interview with Fiona Phillips on the morning of the final \"Apprentice\" episode, although Sugar had said that if she wanted to press on he would fire her, whoever she was competing with. Hopkins told BBC Radio 1 that she had not yet ruled out a media career but expressed interest in starting a business venture.\n\nAfter \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins appeared in an episode of \"8 Out of 10 Cats\", and was a guest star on \"Loose Women\" and \"The Friday Night Project\". In 2007, she presented a \"Five Live Report\" on family life and working mothers for BBC Radio 5 Live, and contributed an article on the same subject to BBC Online.\n\nIn 2007, Hopkins joined the series \"I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!\" as a replacement for Malcolm McLaren, who dropped out just before the show started. In January 2015, she took part in the Channel 5 reality series \"Celebrity Big Brother\", finishing in second place.\n\nHopkins has appeared twice on \"Question Time\" in the editions of 10 June 2010 and 27 January 2011. She also appeared on the Young Voters' version of \"Question Time\" on 20 October 2010. She appeared on an episode of \"10 O'Clock Live\" on 24 April 2013 alongside Theo Paphitis and Owen Jones to discuss the legacy of the former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher who had died that month, and to debate tax policies and the division of wealth amongst UK citizens.\n\nIn 2015, she deliberately gained and lost weight over the course of several months, in an attempt to show that obese people can diet successfully. Her progress was carefully documented by a camera crew and then played on a programme called \"My Fat Story\" for TLC. Hopkins gained and lost over the course of the programme. TLC claimed an audience figure of 10 million in the UK and US for the programme.\n\nLater that year, she began her own chat show, \"If Katie Hopkins Ruled the World\" on the digital channel TLC. She said she wanted to bring a new variation to chat and panel shows. The series was dropped in December, after the first series, owing to low audience ratings.\n\nFrom April 2016 to May 2017, Hopkins presented a Sunday morning talk show on LBC, a London-based national talk and phone-in radio station. She had previously worked as a guest presenter for the station. \"The snarling facade remained\", wrote Fiona Sturges for \"The Independent\" in April 2015 after one such broadcast. \"But even Hopkins knows when to tone down the panto villain act\". LBC announced Hopkins' departure on 26 May 2017, 'effective immediately', following her comments on Twitter soon after the Manchester Arena bombing, in which Hopkins claimed \"we need a final solution\". Speaking about her departure a few days later on Fox News, she said a deal had been made with LBC not to speak about it, but suggested it was part of a \"silencing\" of people with right-wing views. Following Hopkins' departure, LBC audience figures rose 18%.\n\nHopkins said she is \"pushing back the walls closing in on freedom of speech\" at a Church and Media conference in October 2015. Claiming to be \"the new Jesus\" during her speech, she said: \"I have never apologised for anything I’ve said. I find it very disappointing when people apologise. You should have the positive moral attitude to stand by what you say\".\n\nEarly in her public career, Hopkins wrote a column for Exeter's \"Express & Echo\" newspaper, but her articles ceased after an online poll in October 2007 found 84% of readers wanted the feature to end.\n\nAt the end of October 2013, it emerged that Hopkins had joined \"The Sun\" as a weekly columnist. with the newspaper promoting her as \"Britain's most controversial columnist\". Hopkins in February 2015 defended her remarks and those of her critics, commenting: \"I welcome it because I've had my opinion and it's only right that people have theirs. I welcome the debate and the fact that people are getting involved.\"\n\nShe left \"The Sun\" for the Mail Online website, the online companion to the \"Daily Mail\" in autumn 2015. \"The Daily Telegraph\" contributor Bryony Gordon wrote in April 2015 that media organisations have \"a tipping point here, where the marketing men and women don't want to be associated with reality TV's very own Adolf Hitler. But so far that doesn't seem to have happened.\" The \"Mail\" published a page one article in June 2017 expressing its low opinion of the liberal \"The Guardian\" newspaper, which had attacked it for its coverage of the attack on the Finsbury Park mosque\nand also referred to Hopkins. It \"was a lie\" to say Hopkins wrote for the \"Daily Mail\", it asserted. \"\"The Guardian\" and its writer know that Ms Hopkins has nothing to do with the \"Daily Mail\", but works for Mail Online – a totally separate entity\". The \"Daily Mail\" newspaper and Mail Online are part of the same group, with the same editor or editor-in-chief. Her last column for the \"Mail\" website was published on 5 October 2017. In a late November 2017 statement from her employers to the \"Press Gazette\", it emerged that Hopkins Mail contract had not been renewed by \"mutual consent\". A large number of Tweets from her Twitter account were deleted around the same time.\n\nA few days before, a video was posted online of Hopkins' appearance at the David Horowitz Freedom Center in Florida earlier in November 2017. \"It's such a pleasure to be amongst people that are prepared to fight for their country\" she said, asserting it is \"our time\". She continued: \"We can commit to arm ourselves, not just with the help of the NRA\". In her opinion, there is a \"Muslim mafia\" in certain areas of Britain and \"institutionalised discrimination against whites\" in the UK as a whole.\n\nIn January 2018, Hopkins joined The Rebel Media, a Canadian far-right website, on which Tommy Robinson, founder of the English Defence League, is also a contributor. In her first column on her own Hopkins World outlet, she wrote: \"When so many platforms are under the control of the Saudis, tied to fickle commercial advertisers or beholden to special interests and religious lobbyists, it is a real thrill to find a place for us to speak without censorship\".\n\nHopkins is anti-Islam. After the 2016 Nice truck attack, Hopkins stated \"Islam disgusts me\", declaring the statement was \"entirely rational\" and not Islamophobic. She is in favour of a burqa ban and has labelled Islamic culture as homophobic. In March 2017, Hopkins gave a speech at a David Horowitz Freedom Center event, where she attacked Muslims, declaring a \"Muslim mafia\" controlled areas of Britain, and labelling London Mayor Sadiq Khan as the \"Muslim mayor of Londonistan\". Calling on people to \"fight for your country\" against Muslims, Hopkins appeared to make a call to arms, stating that \"we can commit to arm ourselves, not just with the help of the NRA,\" adding \"get furious and fight back\".\n\nHopkins is anti-multiculturalism. Referencing a so-called \"multicultural mafia\", she has claimed that increased crime is directly linked to it. Criticising Notting Hill Carnival in 2016, she said \"I don't buy multiculturalism at all\", claiming that a \"London bubble\" believed in it and \"the liberal left wing press, the BBC, they love it! They can't get enough of it.\" Following the 2017 London Bridge attack, Hopkins criticised \"Liberals in London\", claiming they \"actually think multiculturalism means we all die together\", and that they were \"so desperately wedded to the multicultural illusion that [they] can only fight those who love the country the most, blame those who are most proud to be British.\"\n\nHopkins pushes the white genocide conspiracy theory. She has contended that immigration and multiculturalism are intended to make white people minorities. \"Yahoo News\" reported it was \"her intention was to ‘expose’ the white genocide\" happening to farmers in South Africa. She also visited to report on 'anti-white racism'.\n\nSince \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins has frequently featured in the media for making controversial remarks, being described in several media outlets as a \"professional troll\". She has described herself as a \"conduit for truth\", declaring what other people think but are too scared to say.\n\nDuring an appearance on ITV's \"This Morning\" in July 2013, Hopkins revealed she would stop her children playing with their classmates based on their given names. She revealed a particular dislike for \"lower class\" names like Charmaine, Chantelle, and Chardonnay, which met with disapproval from co-host Holly Willoughby. Hopkins said that she did not like \"geographical location names\" either. After Willoughby's colleague, Phillip Schofield, pointed out that she had given the name India to one of her daughters, Hopkins asserted that India is \"not related to a place\". A viewers' poll conducted by the \"This Morning\" programme indicated that 91% of respondents disagreed with Hopkins' opinion.\n\nAppearing as a panellist on Channel 5's \"\" in February 2014, she was accused by Terry Christian amongst others of only expressing her controversial opinions to make money from media appearances. Hopkins has said that financial motives are not the reason she speaks out, and received a \"relatively modest\" fee of £300 when she was on \"This Morning\" speaking about children's names.\n\nIn a February 2014 interview with Decca Aitkenhead for \"The Guardian\", Hopkins was asked if she is a snob: \"Oh, definitely yeah, 100%. I think it's really important to be snobby\".\n\nHopkins posted a tweet referring to Scottish life expectancy predictions based upon a 2011 NHS Scotland report, \"Healthy Life Expectancy in Scotland: Update of trends to 2010\". This tweet was posted following a heated debate on Scottish Independence during an edition of \"The Wright Stuff\" on which Hopkins was a panellist. In the wake of the 2013 Glasgow helicopter crash, the tweet raised widespread condemnation among Twitter users. Hopkins retorted \"Following Independence I will only be the Biggest Bitch in England\", and described people's reactions as \"PC tastic\". An online petition to ban Hopkins from shows such as ITV's \"This Morning\" and \"The Wright Stuff\" on Channel 5 gained over 75,000 signatures. Hopkins issued an apology the following Monday, restating that her original remark was in reference to the NHS report and was simply bad timing. ITV said on 5 December 2013 that \"We have no plans for Katie Hopkins to appear on \"This Morning\" at this present time\".\n\nOn 31 December 2014, police announced they were investigating complaints they had received concerning Hopkins' tweets about Pauline Cafferkey, a Scottish aid worker who was diagnosed with Ebola after returning to the UK from Sierra Leone. Hopkins had tweeted: \"Little sweaty jocks, sending us Ebola bombs in the form of sweaty Glaswegians just isn't cricket. Scottish NHS sucks.\" No evidence of criminality was found by the police. On 7 April 2015, Hopkins made a series of tweets suggesting that people with dementia are \"bed blockers\" who take up scarce hospital beds and implied they would be better off dead. Her comments were condemned by leading UK Alzheimer's charities.\n\nAfter five Londoners drowned at Camber Sands in August 2016, Hopkins tweeted a poll mocking the identities of the deceased. Sussex Police reported the tweet to Twitter under the headings of \"abusive or harmful\" and \"disrespectful or offensive\". They decided while the tweet was distasteful it was not criminal. The tweet was deleted.\n\nHopkins objected to Rochdale commemorating National Pakistan Day on 23 March 2015 and claimed to base her objection on a Rochdale sex trafficking case involving nine predominantly Pakistani men and forty-seven white victims. In a series of tweets, she posted images of the felons with the caption \"are these your friends too?\" On 29 March 2015, Hopkins was reported to the police by Labour MP Simon Danczuk for possible race hate crimes. In response, Hopkins said \"I asked fair questions and I think it's important that someone has the balls to speak out\".\n\nOn 17 April 2015, Hopkins wrote a column in \"The Sun\" in comparing migrants to \"cockroaches\" and \"feral humans\" and said they were \"spreading like the norovirus\". She wrote that gunships should be used to stop migrants from crossing the Mediterranean. Her remarks were condemned by the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein. In a statement released on 24 April 2015, he urged the UK to \"curb incitement to hatred\" by its \"tabloid newspapers\" and stated that Hopkins used \"language very similar to that employed by Rwanda's \"Kangura\" newspaper and Radio Mille Collines during the run up to the 1994 genocide\", and noted that both media organisations were subsequently convicted by an international tribunal of public incitement to commit genocide.\n\nHopkins' column also drew criticism on Twitter, including from Russell Brand, to whom Hopkins responded by accusing Brand's \"champagne socialist humanity\" of neglecting taxpayers. Simon Usborne, writing in \"The Independent\", compared her use of the word \"cockroach\" to previous uses by the Nazis and just before the Rwandan Genocide by its perpetrators. He suspected that if any other contributor had written the piece it would not have been published and questioned her continued employment by the newspaper. Zoe Williams commented in \"The Guardian\": \"It is no joke when people start talking like this. We are not 'giving her what she wants' when we make manifest our disgust. It is not a free speech issue. I'm not saying gag her: I'm saying fight her\".\n\nA Change.org petition was initiated with the aim of getting \"The Sun\" to sack Hopkins. By 26 April, it had attracted over 310,000 signatures. In early September, \"The Sun\" retweeted an earlier comment from Hopkins expressing her disinterest in migrants. The tweet was pulled after the Prime Minister David Cameron publicly announced Britain would do more to help those seeking asylum in the UK. A further Change.org petition for Hopkins to be replaced with 50,000 Syrian refugees gained more than 20,000 signatures in less than 48 hours in September 2015.\n\nPeter Herbert, chair of the Society of Black Lawyers, reported Hopkins and \"The Sun\" to Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner. Hopkins was questioned and not charged, and subsequently criticised the police for purportedly criminalising opinion, and stated that she would set up a Society of White Lawyers. By December 2016, the original article had been removed from \"The Sun\"s website.\n\nHopkins supported Donald Trump's Republican presidential nomination in the \"Daily Mail\" during December: \"I hear cries that he is a blithering idiot. I have often been called a deranged fool. But if this were true you could ignore me, ignore us, the two of us shouting naked at the rain. It's because we articulate sentiments repressed by the politically correct consensus that we have a voice\". Hopkins defended Trump's remarks that all Muslims should be banned from entering the United States. Trump later thanked Hopkins for her support and for her \"powerful writing on the U.K.'s Muslim problems\", calling her a \"respected journalist\", although the Metropolitan Police and the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson among others, rejected his comments that there are 'no go' areas of London for non-Muslims. Hopkins asserted that Britain is in part \"radicalised\" and \"it does nobody any favours to deny the obvious\". When asked by BBC's \"Daily Politics\" presenter Andrew Neil in a December 2015 interview to name the \"swathes\" of Britain that are no-go areas for non-Muslims, Hopkins replied that she couldn't for \"legal reasons\". When Neil pointed out there could be no legal problems with identifying an area she continued to refuse, saying only “I know those places exist\".\n\nIn January 2017, a caller to her LBC programme named Joseph said she came over as racist, following which she said: \"I genuinely believe 'racist' as a word has been used so much. I am sorry for the word racist in a way. I love language so much ... it's like a regular word now, it's lost all meaning to me\". When tweeting the clip she added, \"Call me racist. I don't care. I will stand up for white women being raped because you're scared to offend Muslims\". Hopkins tweeted shortly afterwards: \"Racial profiling is a good thing, call me racist. I don't care...it has lost all meaning\". She later briefly retweeted a favourable response from an account named Anti Juden SS, whose avatar featured the Swastika (and the United States flag), later explaining that she had not looked at the handle.\n\nSharing a poster on Twitter for the Netflix series \"Dear White People\" at the beginning of May 2017, Hopkins added: \"Dear black people. If your lives matter why do you stab and shoot each other so much\". Although, the tweet was deleted, users of the social media site circulated screenshots of what appeared to be a reference to the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States. In August 2016, she urged the London Mayor Sadiq Khan to use water cannon against Black Lives Matter protesters at Heathrow Airport, who had chained themselves to the tarmac of an approach road.\n\nIn early 2018 Hopkins was detained and had her passport briefly confiscated in South Africa for allegedly spreading racial hatred.\n\nRegarding the Manchester Arena bombing, Hopkins wrote that \"Britain is faced with some hard questions the people charged with protecting us are going to have to answer sooner or later\". Hopkins asserted that the suicide bomber, Salman Abedi, was known to the police, and questioned how he was permitted to re-enter Britain unchallenged after visiting Libya. \"Our leaders allow such deeply suspicious characters back into Britain,\" wrote Hopkins, \"and then expect us to swallow their lies that we will not give in to terror?\" Hopkins also tweeted about the need for a \"final solution\", the Nazis' term for the Holocaust, on the morning following the May 2017 Manchester Arena bombing. Although the tweet was soon deleted and reworded as a \"true solution\", Hopkins claimed the original was only a typographical error (she had also misspelled \"Manchester\"). The motive for the attack, and the background of the suicide bomber, was unknown at the time Hopkins made the comment.\n\nThe journalist Nick Cohen was among those who responded on Twitter: \"Even if Hopkins knows nothing of Nazism – which I doubt – her \"final solution\" can only mean ethnic cleansing\". Others, such as Owen Jones, called for a boycott of the LBC radio station while they employ her. Interviewed later on Fox News by Tucker Carlson, she called for people to insist on deportations among other responses to terrorist acts. She said: \"I used the word 'final solution' in a tweet, and I would not in any way want to use that term and the inference other people lay on that. What I meant was, we need a lasting solution, a resolution to this\". The incident led to Hopkins leaving LBC.\n\nFollowing the June 2017 London Bridge attack almost a fortnight later, Hopkins called for internment camps to be used for those suspected of being Muslim extremists on Fox News' \"Fox & Friends\". The host Clayton Morris said, on behalf of the network staff, that everyone considered the \"idea reprehensible\".\n\nHopkins' comments have been linked in the media with hate crimes against Muslims. A Muslim man in Heckmondwike stated that he was attacked by assailants who graffitied his house with Hopkins' tweet, including her misspelling \"#Machester\".\n\nIn July 2017, Hopkins flew to Catania in Sicily to visit a ship known as the C-Star hired by the Defend Europe movement, which has the intention of hindering the work of \"search and rescue\" vessels in the Mediterranean used by charities such as Save the Children to save trafficked migrants and refugees. Defend Europe is supported by the American white-nationalist David Duke and the neo-Nazi \"Daily Stormer\" website.\n\nHopkins tweets suggested she was actively supporting Defend Europe, rather than covering the subject for her employer: \"Looking forward to meeting the crew of the C-Star in Catania tomorrow. Setting out to defend the Med. All this week @MailOnline\". She tweeted, and then deleted, an image of herself with a Defend Europe activist also present in Sicily at the time, a man known as Peter Sweden, initially reported to be an active Holocaust denier.\n\nAn article headlined \"Katie Hopkins on NGOs colluding with traffickers in Sicily\" was briefly published on the \"Mailonline\" website in mid-July 2017. According to a report on the \"HuffPo\" website, the article offered no evidence to match the title. Shortly after her article was deleted, Save the Children rejected Hopkins' claim that she had \"spent time\" with the crew of one of their ships. \"Nor will she set sail with us on any of our rescue missions\", they stated. The deleted \"Mailonline\" article was her only contribution to the planned series.\n\nCookery writer and anti-poverty campaigner, Jack Monroe threatened a libel action against Katie Hopkins after Hopkins accused Monroe of vandalism to a war memorial, having confused Monroe with journalist Laurie Penny, who had written in support of that vandalism. Monroe called for an apology and a £5,000 donation to a migrants rescue charity. Hopkins later admitted that she was mistaken about the identity but did not apologise. Monroe began legal action in January 2016, and was awarded £24,000 in damages and £107,000 in legal costs in March 2017. After the decision became known, Hopkins tweeted an image of herself as the Virgin Mary and commented that she saw herself as \"the Jesus of the outspoken\". An appeal application was refused in January 2018 as it was considered unlikely to succeed.\n\nMohammad Tariq Mahmood, his brother and their children were stopped from boarding a Norwegian Air flight from Gatwick to Los Angeles on 15 December 2015. At the airport, the family from Walthamstow found their entry visas to the United States had been cancelled.\n\nIn December 2016, the Daily Mail and General Trust settled a libel case brought by the Mahmood family with £150,000 damages, plus legal costs, over two articles by Hopkins posted on the Mailonline website which claimed members of the Muslim family were extremists. The columns published at the time of the incident falsely claimed that officials were right to stop the family flying to Los Angeles to visit Disneyland because the two men were connected to al-Qaida, and that their stated plans were a \"lie\". In the settlement, the assertions from the Mahmood family were accepted as true by the \"Mail\" and Hopkins; the family had arranged to stay with another brother living in California, The family's MP, Stella Creasy, complained to the prime minister David Cameron at the time about the family's treatment, but Hopkins said Creasy was a \"whinging…blond-bobbed maniac\".\n\nIn a statement from the family's solicitors, Carter-Ruck, they said: \"matters are not helped when sensationalist and, frankly, Islamophobic articles such as this are published, and which caused us all a great deal of distress and anxiety. We are very pleased that the record has been set straight\". The two articles by Hopkins about the Mahmood family have been removed from the Mailonline website.\n\nIn November 2017, Hopkins' former employers Mail Online apologised and paid \"substantial damages\" to teacher Jackie Teale, after Hopkins had made false accusations of taking her class to a Donald Trump protest in Westminster.\n\nIn May 2018, Hopkins won an IPSO case against the \"Daily Mirror\" for claiming that she had been detained in South Africa in February 2018 for taking ketamine. The \"Mirror\" updated the headline to say that she had been detained for spreading racial hatred, and included a correction in the article.\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament Election, Hopkins stood as a candidate for the South West England Constituency as an Independent candidate. She polled 8,971 votes or 0.6% of the total votes cast.\n\nIn late September 2015, Hopkins spoke at a fringe event organised by the Electoral Reform Society at the UK Independence Party (UKIP)'s annual conference. After derogatory comments about the appointment of Michelle Mone to the House of Lords, she said: \"Frankly, I don't really mind if we seal up the room and gas the lot of them\".\n\nUKIP said Hopkins was not a party member and, although she has reportedly applied to join on several occasions, her applications have always been rejected.\n\nIn November 2015, students at Brunel University turned their backs on her, then walked out in protest at her presence in a debate.\n\nHopkins' first husband was Damian McKinney, a former Royal Marine and founder and Chief Executive of the company McKinney Rogers; they married in September 2004 in Exeter. He was married to another woman when they first met; she has admitted to having \"stolen\" him. McKinney left Hopkins for another woman soon after the birth of the couple's second daughter. While working at the Met Office, she met Mark Cross, a married design manager. In 2010, her marriage to Cross was filmed as part of the reality game show \"Four Weddings\", which is shown on the satellite and cable channel Sky Living.\n\nHopkins formerly suffered from epilepsy; she was being hospitalised around once every 10 days in early 2014, she told Decca Aitkenhead: \"When I have a fit at night, my arms come out. They dislocate. So I have to go into hospital to have them relocated. That's happened 26 times in the last nine months\". The seizures could occur up to ten times at night, according to Sathnam Sanghera who interviewed her for \"The Times\" in mid-2015. They began in her late teens whenever she fell asleep and did not respond to prescribed drugs, she said in 2017. In a piece for \"The Sun\", published the following August, she announced she was undergoing surgery to help prevent seizures. In mid-November 2015, her condition led her to fall to the ground in the street, injuring her face, and for an ambulance to be called. She faced a Twitter backlash after, due to her previously asking her followers to tweet pictures of immigrants using health services.\n\nIn February 2016, she underwent surgery in which a portion of her brain was removed to relieve the severity of the condition. Hopkins tweeted a month later that the operation was a success. \"I am no longer an epileptic\", she tweeted. According to Hopkins, the surgery has, however, led to complications.\n\nHopkins sold her Exeter home in March 2018 for £930,000. She applied for an individual voluntary arrangement in May 2018 to avoid bankruptcy.\n"}
{"id": "21251263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21251263", "title": "La Forja", "text": "La Forja\n\nLa Forja - Jovent Revolucionari (\"The Forge - Revolutionary Youth\") is a left-wing Catalan independentist youth organization that acts in all the Catalan Countries. La Forja is part of the Popular Unity Candidacy–Constituent Call (CUP-CC) coalition and has very close ties with the political party Poble Lliure.\n\nBefore 2012 the Catalan independentis left had two youth organizations: Maulets-JIR and CAJEI. The first one was founed in 1999 by the union of Maulets (youth wing of Catalunya Lliure) and the Catalan Revolutionary Youth (JIR, youth of People's Unity Assembly). The second one was created in 2002 by members of Endavant. Both organizations merged in 2012 creating Arran. Soon after the confluence, some Maulets-JIR ex-members (especially those close to the Movement for Defence of the Land), started to consider that the leadership of the new organization was following the political line of CAJEI. These ex-members of Maulets-JIR became involved in the creation of the youth of the Catalan National Assembly (ANC), the National Assembly of the Independentist Youth (ANJI). Due to this, they were threatened with expulsion from Arran.\n\nIn 2014, groups of ex-Maulets created, along with other youth organizations, the Estudiants 9N movement, which organized a student strike to support the unofficial self-determination referendum. During the referendum campaign, some local chapters of Arran (Arbúcies, for example) made posters asking to vote Yes, that the leadership of Arran ordered to retire. At the national assembly of that year, most members of Arran voted to expel those who participated in the ANC, since that organization only fights for the independence of Catalonia and not the whole Catalan Countries. The vote was not valid because it did not reach the 70% of necessary quorum.\n\nThis vote caused a split in Arran, with various local groups leaving the organization, including Alt Maresme, València, Castelló de la Plana, Badalona, Cerdanyola del Vallès and Girona\n\nOn 28 December 2015, the Assemblies of the Alt Empordà, Alt Maresme, Badalona, Berguedà, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Mataró and Sants celebrated the Founding Congress of the Youth Assemblies for Popular Unity (AJUP) in the town of Celrà. The political declaration of AJUP declared the Catalan Countries independentism, Marxist socialism, feminism and ecologism as the main ideological lines of the organization. AJUP also considered the CUP as its \"political reference\".\n\nIn the second National Congress of AJUP, held on 3 and 4 February 2018 in Canet de Mar, the organization was refounded as La Forja - Jovent Revolucionari. At the time of the foundation they were present in the \"comarques\" of Alt Empordà, Barcelonès, Gironès, Maresme, Segarra, Tarragonès, Vallès Occidental and Terres de l'Ebre. La Forja is part of Popular Unity Candidacy–Constituent Call, Platform for the Right to Decide of the Valencian Country and the youth of the Catalan National Assembly. La Forja is also very close to Poble Lliure and the Intersindical-CSC trade union.\n\nOn 10 April 2018, two members of La Forja were arrested by the Mossos d'Esquadra in an operation against the CDRs, both being released the next day. Another 3 members of the organization are being investigated, accused of \"damages and coercion\", by the Spanish Justice since October 2018. La Forja has denounced these cases as part of a repressive strategy against the Catalan independence movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "343806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343806", "title": "Labour Party Conference (UK)", "text": "Labour Party Conference (UK)\n\nThe Labour Party Conference, or annual national conference of the Labour Party, is formally the supreme decision-making body of the Party. The conference is traditionally held on the final week in September, during the British party conference season, when the House of Commons is in recess, and after the Conservative Party and Liberal Democrats have held their conferences. Labour is one of few British parties to use their annual gathering for voting and policy resolution. The conference opens on a Sunday and finishes the following Wednesday usually with an address for the Deputy Leader of the Labour Party but some exceptions including 2016 have been made. This means that the Leader's address is usually held on the Tuesday beforehand.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, each major political party holds an annual party conference during the party conference season. Conference is the supreme decision making body of the Labour Party.\n\nDelegates to the conference are elected by Constituency Labour Parties, affiliated trade unions and socialist societies. Currently, affiliated trade unions hold 50% of the votes at the conference – down from 80% in the era before Tony Blair. Some 40% of the votes are wielded by the three largest trade unions (Unite, GMB, UNISON).\n\nResolutions for debate are put forward by CLPs and unions before the conference begins. In recent years, party members have had less say in what is debated at the annual conference, as the party leadership has tried to move policy-making increasingly into the new National Policy Forums, which meet in private.\n\nThe National Executive Committee leads the conference (although the details of the conference, including what is debated, are managed by the Conference Arrangements Committee) and if it does not agree with a resolution, the committee may put pressure on the backers to withdraw or \"remit\" it. \"Remittance\" means that the resolution's backers agree to \"send back\" the resolution to the National Executive so that it can consider the matter in more detail; this is viewed by some as a mere delaying tactic. The resolutions voted upon are normally \"composites\", meaning that they have been compiled by combining several resolutions put forward by different bodies into a single wording agreed beforehand.\n\nThe international guest speaker was Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa.\n\nThe international guest speaker was Gerhard Schröder, the Chancellor of Germany.\n\nThe international guest speaker was Bill Clinton, former President of the United States of America.\n\nThe international guest speaker to address conference was Hamid Karzai, the first President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.\n\nThe 2004 party conference was held in Brighton during the final week of September. Conference rejected a call for withdrawal from Iraq, but accepted a resolution calling for renationalisation of the railways; the leadership declared that it would ignore this. The conference received some international glamour when it was addressed by the Irish rock star Bono who called for more action to combat the spread of AIDS and the debt crippling African countries.\n\nConference closed with the singing of \"The Red Flag\" and \"Jerusalem\".\n\nOver 600 people were held under the recent terrorism acts, including Walter Wolfgang an 82-year-old refugee from Nazi Germany who was arrested for attempting to re-enter the conference without a pass. None was subsequently charged.\n\nIn 2006 the conference was held in Manchester at the G-Mex and Manchester International Conference Centre from 24 to 28 September. It was the first time since 1974 that the main Labour conference was not held at a seaside town and the first time since 1917 the Labour conference had been held in Manchester. This followed Labour's Spring 2004 conference which was held at the G-Mex for the first time. The conference was Blair's last as leader after he stated this would be the case just before the conference and at the conference itself. The start of the conference was marked with protests against the Iraq War.\n\nTony Blair, in his last speech to conference as Labour Party leader and Prime Minister, praised the work of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown.\n\nThe conference was addressed in a joint session by Labour's Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone and the Mayor of Los Angeles Antonio Villaraigosa on the subject of climate change. Bob Geldof and Monica Naggaga from Oxfam (Uganda) spoke together about the plight of Africa. The main international guest speaker was the former US President Bill Clinton. Another international visitor – but not a speaker to the conference – was Shimon Peres, the former Prime Minister of Israel.\n\nSt Johns C.E. Primary School's steel band also performed there before Tony Blair came on stage.\n\nThe 2007 conference was held in the Bournemouth International Centre from 23 to 27 September. The conference was the first with Gordon Brown as leader of the Labour Party and Prime Minister, and he laid out his plans for his premiership. It was a first conference for Harriet Harman as Deputy Leader and First Secretary of State.\n\nThe 2008 conference was held between 20 and 24 September in Manchester at Manchester Central (formerly G-Mex). The opening day of conference was moved from Sunday to Saturday to allow people who work during the week to attend. The Labour leader and Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, delivered his keynote address on 23 September.\n\nThe 2009 conference was held in Brighton from 27 September to 1 October 2009. It is noted for a particularly impassioned address from Peter Mandelson given on 28 September in which he claimed that Labour was in \"the fight of our lives\" as the forthcoming general election approached. Gordon Brown gave his keynote address to the conference on the afternoon of 29 September, saying that Labour was \"not done yet\". Shortly afterwards Britain's biggest selling newspaper, \"The Sun\" announced that it would withdraw its support for the Labour Party and gave its backing to the Conservatives. Union leader and Labour supporter Tony Woodley responded to this by tearing up a copy of that edition of The Sun, telling the audience: \"In Liverpool, we learnt a long time ago what to do. I suggest the rest of the country should do exactly the same thing\"; in reference to the hostility felt in Liverpool towards \"The Sun\" newspaper following its controversial allegations about the behaviour of Liverpool FC supporters during the Hillsborough disaster 20 years earlier. In the Prime Ministers Keynote Address Gordon Brown listed no fewer than twenty Labour Party achievements since 1997 and received an early standing ovation. The address would be his last as Prime Minister and for the Party would be their thirteenth and last party conference in government.\n\nShortly after losing the 2010 general election to the Conservatives, the 2010 Conference took place between 26–30 September 2010 at Manchester Central Conference Centre. The conference started with the announcement of the results of the 2010 leadership election and was Ed Miliband's first conference as leader. In his first major speech as leader on 28 September, Miliband told delegates that his \"new generation\" would return the party to power. The following day David Miliband announced he would not be serving in his brother's shadow cabinet, although he would continue as an MP. Other highlights of the conference included activists condemning the coalition government's proposed public spending cuts as \"obscene\" on 27 September, and a close of conference address from Harriet Harman in which she told delegates that Ed Miliband would \"fortify\" the party.\n\nThe 2011 Conference took place in Liverpool from 25–29 September. It was the first time since 1925 that Labour had held its Annual Conference there. On 26 September delegates voted to scrap the tradition of Shadow Cabinet elections. Ed Miliband's keynote speech on 27 September suffered a five-minute blackout after all media communications were lost.\n\nThe 2012 Conference was held in Manchester from 30 September–4 October at Manchester Central Conference Centre. Labour Leader Ed Miliband's speech was the first by a Labour leader in around twenty years to be delivered without the use of an Autocue, enabling him to walk up and down the stage during his speech while maintaining eye contact with his audience, replicating the style of David Cameron in 2005 when running for leadership of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe 2013 Conference took place in Brighton 22–25 September at the Brighton Centre.\n\nA special conference was held at ExCeL London on 1 March to approve rule changes arising from former general-secretary Ray Collins review of party reform. The changes included replacing the electoral college system for selecting new leaders with a \"one member, one vote\" system. Mass membership would be encouraged by allowing \"registered supporters\" to join at a low cost, as well as full membership. Members from the trade unions would also have to explicitly \"opt in\" rather than \"opt out\" of paying a political levy to Labour.\n\nThe 2014 Conference was held in Manchester from 21–24 September at Manchester Central Conference Centre. Ed Miliband was criticised by his own colleagues for failing to mention the deficit and immigration in his Conference address, despite having promised to do so in his pre-speech press release. It was Miliband's last Autumn Conference address as Labour Leader.\n\nThe results of the leadership and deputy leadership elections were announced prior to the Annual Conference on 12 September at a special conference.\nThe 2015 conference took place in Brighton between 27 September and 30 September. The new Labour Leader, Jeremy Corbyn, reinstated the use of the Autocue, three years after it had been abandoned by Ed Miliband. It was the first time that Corbyn had used one to deliver a speech.\n\nThe 2016 Conference took place at ACC Liverpool, it started on 25 September and ran until Wednesday 28 September. The result of the Leadership election 2016 was announced the previous day with Jeremy Corbyn being re-elected. The conference heard impassioned pleas for unity and a need for the party to gain power from Deputy Leader Tom Watson and Mayor of London Sadiq Khan. The party faithful were widely criticised for their apparent disunity among elected representatives but the gathering in Liverpool came together in harmony on many issues including opposition to plans for grammar school expansions, a 'hard brexit' and on accepting more unaccompanied child refugees into Britain.\n\nThe 2017 Conference took place at the 5,000 capacity Brighton Centre in Brighton. It ran from Sunday 24 September to Wednesday 27 September 2017, with the Leader's Speech taking place on the final day. \n\nJeremy Corbyn's leadership speech lasted 75 minutes and included a number of well received jokes, which came at the expense of both the Conservative party - specifically their reference to being unable to find a 'magic money tree', to fund new initiatives, prior to 2017 general election, only to find £1 billion to serve as the basis of a confidence and supply deal with the DUP following the Conservative Party's re-election with a reduced majority - and the Daily Mail. In terms of policy, Corbyn pledged that a Labour government would give cities the power to bring in rent controls and introduce restrictions on gentrification projects, citing the then recent Grenfell Tower fire.\n\nDuring the course of the conference Corbyn said that he was not planning a second referendum on Brexit, but refused to rule out Labour backing one. He also said there were some “positives” from leaving the EU.\n\nThe Labour deputy leader, Tom Watson, announced a number of policy plans, including:\nThe conference also received attention as a result of a passionate speech delivered by Lauren Stocks, a 16-year-old schoolgirl from Greater Manchester, that subsequently went viral. Commentator quickly drew parallels with William Hague's famous 1977 Conservative conference, which he delivered when he was also 16. Stocks spoke about the toll that changes to the exams had taken on her and her classmates and argued that:There's a statistic we were shown when I was about 13 or 14 that told me 3 in 10 people in every classroom suffer with a mental illness. Now I'm going to be a bit frank here conference. That is b****cks! It's a good half ... I could've walked into any food tech, history, art, maths classroom and just watched seas of spaced-out, stressed-out, depressed kids, in a battlefield where they can't afford pens and paper! ... It is a disgusting sight and we cannot sit on our hands any longer!The conference hosted over 400 fringe events.\n\nThe 2018 Conference took place at the Arena and Convention Centre Liverpool (ACC Liverpool) with a capacity of 13,000 delegates at the event. It was announced at the party that private property tenants would be given more protections, as landlords couldn't evict them without reason. John McDonnell announced that workers in companies with more than 250 employees would become joint share holders in a scheme that companies would be forced to implement, with each employee receiving a payout at the end of each year. Angela Rayner announced a range of education reforms: that Labour would scrap the Free School program, democratise Academy schools, give local authorities the power to take control of badly performing Academies and remove the ability to shape their own admission policies.\n\nThe prospect of a second referendum on the UK's relationship with the European Union was a heavily discussed topic at the conference. Both Leader Jeremy Corbyn and Deputy Leader Tom Watson had said should the conference vote for a second referendum they would support it. The motion was discussed by delegates on the Sunday, including MPs and representatives from People's Vote and other delegates, and after five hours they had written a two-paged motion stating that \"If we cannot get a general election Labour must support all options remaining on the table, including campaigning for a public vote\". The vote on motion took place on the Tuesday.\n\nParty delegates voted on the Member of Parliament reselection process. They lowered the threshold required of local branches and local union branches to express disatifaction in an MP's performance from 50% to 33%.\n\nFringe Events also took place at the conference:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13372337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13372337", "title": "Language nest", "text": "Language nest\n\nLanguage nests, an immersion-based approach to language revitalization, originated in New Zealand in 1982 as a part of the Māori language revival. The term \"language nest\" is a translation of the Māori phrase \"kōhanga reo\".\n\nIn a language nest, older speakers of the language take part in early-childhood education with a view to improving intergenerational language transference.\n\nThe first \"kōhanga reo\" was founded in Wainuiomata in 1982, and was followed by the establishment of primary schools and secondary schools (Kura Kaupapa Māori) where Māori is the primary language of instruction.\n\nAccording to Al Jazeera, the percentage of Maori people speaking the language has increased by a few percentage points from the early 1980s to 2014. Linguist Christopher Moseley says that this statistic is \"quite encouraging\" because \"compared to how quickly a language can disappear, in just one generation in extreme cases, the figures are good.\"\n\nIn Hawaii, the Hawaiian-language equivalent, the Pūnana Leo, has been running for 24 years and has also been successful in producing first-language speakers of Hawaiian.\n\nIn Minnesota, the Enweyang Ojibwe Language Nest, started in 2009. In collaboration with UMD's College of Education and Human Services Professionals and Eni-gikendaasoyang, the Center for Indigenous Knowledge and Language Revitalization, the program targets 4-5 year olds in a half day session in the Duluth area.\n\nIn North Dakota, Lakȟól’yapi Wahóȟpi, the Lakota Language Immersion Nest, opened on September 12, 2012. Full day schooling aimed at 3-year olds, with parents also receiving training to encourage at home efforts is key to this program. \n\nIn August 2009, the Australian government pledged to pilot language nests as part of its National Indigenous Languages Policy. The first of five Aboriginal language and culture nests in New South Wales launched in 2013, although these are government service delivery centres and not immersion pre-schools. The Miriwoong Language Nest has been running in Kununurra since early 2014 with over 300 children attending per week.\n\nA study in 2004 reported on two language nests in British Columbia: a \"Cseyseten\" (\"language nest\") at Adam’s Lake in the Secwepemc language, and a \"Clao7alcw\" (\"Raven’s nest\") at Lil’wat Nation in the Lil’wat language written about by Onowa McIvor for her Master's thesis.\n\nThe First Peoples' Cultural Council in Canada provides grants to First Nations communities in British Columbia as part of the Pre-School Language Nest Program.\n\nIn the Northwest Territories, there are language nests for each of the official Aboriginal languages, with more than 20 language nests in total.\n\nThere is only one language nest for Võro working three days a week in Haanja and several initiatives, so called \"language nest days\" (\"keelepesäpäiv\") that are working one day in week in 18 different kindergartens of Võro area. Võro language nest initiatives are organised by Võro Institute.\n\nThere are language nests for Inari Sámi, Skolt Sami, and the Karelian languages in Finland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34148995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34148995", "title": "Libel trial of Joseph Howe", "text": "Libel trial of Joseph Howe\n\nThe Libel trial of Joseph Howe was a court case heard 2 March 1835 in which newspaper editor Joseph Howe was charged with seditious libel by civic politicians in Nova Scotia. Howe's victory in court was considered monumental at the time. In the first issue of the \"Novascotian\" following the acquittal, Howe claimed that \"the press of Nova-Scotia is Free.\" Scholars, such as John Ralston Saul, have argued that Howe's libel victory established the fundamental basis for the freedom of the press in Canada. Historian Barry Cahill writes that the trial was significant in colonial legal history because it was a long delayed replay of the Zenger case (1734).\n\nDuring the year 1834, Howe was starting to attract attention to himself due to his strong independent viewpoints in his editorials in the \"Novascotian\", the Government was starting to take notice. Howe had eventually reached his breaking point and in late 1834 wrote in the \"Novascotian\" that he was going to start a campaign in the interest of bringing to light the wrongful actions of government. On January 1, 1835, the final piece of this campaign was published in the \"Novascotian\", a letter signed \"The People\".\n\nThis letter accused the magistrates of, \"reprehensible irresponsibility, incompetence, and self-interestedness in the conduct of their responsibilities.\" Specifically, in the letter Joseph Howe accused Halifax politicians and police of pocketing £30,000 over a thirty-year period. Due to the letter being published, Howe was put on trial for seditious libel, being charged with \"seditiously contriving, devising, and intending to stir up and incite discontent and sedition among His Majesty's subjects.\" The crime of seditious libel had only been defined 200 years prior to the time of Howe's trial and was seen by many as an unfair crime as it could be as broad or as specific as the court chose.\"\n\nThe trial took place in the present day library of Province House (Nova Scotia) and the judge in the case was Brenton Halliburton. Howe represented himself in the trial as no lawyer would defend him. Howe used as the basis of his argument the Libel Act 1792. He presented for six and a quarter hours addressing the jury, citing case after case of civic corruption. He spoke eloquently about the importance of press freedom, urging jurors \"to leave an unshackled press as a legacy to your children.\" Even though the judge instructed the jury to find Howe guilty, jurors took only ten minutes to acquit him.\n\nThe victory of Howe in the court was considered monumental at the time. In the first issue of the \"Novascotian\" following the acquittal, Howe claimed that \"the press of Nova-Scotia is Free.\" Some scholars have argued that Howe's libel victory changed little in the strict legal sense, however, other scholars insist that the case established the fundamental basis for the freedom of the press in Canada.\n\nJoseph Howe scholar J. M. Beck argues that Howe was victorious convincing a jury that the libel law was unjust, however, his trial had no immediate effect on changing the civil or criminal code with respect to libel. Beck asserts that the idea that Howe's trial contributed to the freedom of the press in Canada is a, \"myth that has little basis in fact\". In fact, eight years after the trial, Howe's successor at the \"Novascotian\" Richard Nugent was charged and found guilty of libel (1843). Nugent was imprisoned due to his inability to pay damages. Beck also notes that in 1843, the British Parliament passed a law that allowed the accused to use truth of the libel as their defence, which led to freedom of the press.\n\nScholars have agreed with the strict legal sense of Beck's argument, however, scholar Cecil Rosner states, \"The Howe trial is noteworthy more for its symbolic effect than any legal precedent it may have set...charges of sedition have largely disappeared [but] journalists across the country continue to face civil libel threats...\".\n\nLyndsay M. Campbell argues that the trial did eventually change the law. Howe was the first in Nova Scotia to argue intent before a jury. Campbell also notes that while Howe's defence did not persuade the presiding judge, it was a defense that would be used by lawyers in future cases. Howe changed how the law was perceived by both the legal profession and by the general public. The timing of the trial was crucial to the lasting effect it had on Canada. It occurred when the number of newspapers was growing rapidly and they were all pushing their own boundaries when it came to political commentary. Howe's trial removed the fear of prosecution from these newspapers for having political commentary of their own, as Campbell puts it, \"The sense of what was possible had changed.\"\n\nJohn Ralston Saul states that by, \"...winning his acquittal, Howe established the fundamental ideas, principles, and shapes of freedom of speech and freedom of the press in Canada.\" Saul acknowledges that, in terms of freedom of speech and freedom of the press, the laws have regressed and progressed multiple times since Howe's trial. Saul argues that Howe created the, \"...intellectual foundation of how we still struggle to solidify and to widen the nature of freedom of speech and of the press.\" Saul states that Howe's trial also had a significant influence on the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. He argues there is a clear link between Howe's defense and lines 9 and 10 of the Charter, which refer to freedom of speech and freedom of the press. Saul also references many public leaders across Canada since Howe's trial who were influenced by him, such as Fred Dickson who was the leader of the 1919 Winnipeg Strike on trial for seditious libel, who read Howe's defence was their own to, \"speak from an ethical center in their own public lives.\"\n\nIn 1961, the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) produced a 28-minute film about the trial entitled \"Joseph Howe: The Tribune of Nova Scotia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42335532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42335532", "title": "List of regimes", "text": "List of regimes\n\nThis list of regimes lists the results of regime-classification schemes from political science literature, including Polity data series and the Democracy-Dictatorship Index.\n\n"}
{"id": "35991840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35991840", "title": "Macelj massacre", "text": "Macelj massacre\n\nIn May and June 1945, at the end of World War II in Europe, the forests near Macelj, a village in northern Croatia, were the location where a large number of persons who were soldiers of NDH or closely associated with NDH, were shot by soldiers of the Yugoslav army (the Partisans). This was part of the events referred to as the Bleiburg tragedy.\nIn 1992, after Croatia became independent, 1163 bodies were excavated from 23 mass graves in the region, leaving around 130 possible mass grave locations unexplored. DNA analysis was conducted on a few hundred of them. The names of identified persons were not officially published, but it is clear that they were victims of a mass execution. A large number of the bodies were dropped into the area's many pits, making it difficult to locate all casualties. Further investigation on this issue was not conducted, and final conclusions about the excavations cannot be drawn yet. Some of those executions have been investigated, but no one has ever been prosecuted.\n\nAmong those executed in Macelj were 25 Catholic priests from the Franciscan monastery of Široki Brijeg which were temporarily hidden in nearby Krapina. In 2008, the Croatian Ministry of the Interior launched an investigation into Stjepan Hršak's possible involvement in that event.\n\nReburial of excavated bodies in 2005 was followed by public mass led by Cardinal Josip Bozanić, at the time Archbishop of Zagreb.\n\n"}
{"id": "53089087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53089087", "title": "Macroeconomic populism", "text": "Macroeconomic populism\n\nMacroeconomic populism is a term coined by Rudi Dornbusch and Sebastian Edwards in a 1990 paper. The term refers to the policies by many Latin American administrations by which government spending and real wages increase in a non-sustainable way leading to inflation, then stagflation and ultimately an economic collapse that drops real wages to lower than they were before the populist period began. The paper cites as examples Salvador Allende in Chile (1970–1973), and Alan García first term in Peru (1985–1990). In 1991, Dornbusch and Edwards edited a book titled \"The Macroeconomics of Populism in Latin America\" which analyzed more cases like Argentina between 1973 and 1976, Mexico between 1970 and 1982, and Brazil.\n\nIn 2014, Paul Krugman cited Argentina's policies under Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and Venezuela as new cases of macroeconomic populism. In 2014, during a lecture he said he did not endorse the attacks on Argentina nor what it looks to him as a \"somewhat out of control fiscal and monetary policy.\"\n\nThe definition of macroeconomic populism in the original paper states as follows: \"Macroeconomic populism is an approach to economics that emphasizes growth and income distribution and deemphasizes the risks of inflation and deficit finance, external constraints and the reaction of economic agents to aggressive non-market policies.\"\n\nThe start of a populist cycle is generally after a stabilization program. The economy has idle capacity and the budget and external balance have room left for a expansionary policy.\n"}
{"id": "47152606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152606", "title": "Mankari", "text": "Mankari\n\nMankari (Mānkari or Maankari) is a hereditary title used by Maratha nobles who held land grants, and cash allowances. They held an official position at the Darbar (court) and were entitled to certain ceremonial honours and presents rendered at courts, councils, weddings, festivals, village assemblies, etc. They were worthy of distinction and the honour bestowed upon them was the result of the military, bureaucratic or fiscal importance of them or their distinguished ancestors.\n\nThe term was widely used by Maratha nobility, who held important positions in various princely states of the Maratha Empire.\n"}
{"id": "43001917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43001917", "title": "Maoist Communist Party of Manipur", "text": "Maoist Communist Party of Manipur\n\nMaoist Communist Party of Manipur is an Maoist Armed Revolutionary Party communist party in Manipur which aims \"to establish a communist society through armed revolutionary war.\" The Maoist Communist Party of Manipur also intends at liberating the people of Manipur from whom they view as \"colonial India.\"\n\nThe Maoist Communist Party of Manipur (MCPM) was formed in August 2011 after amended its constitution in accordance with Marxism–Leninism–Maoism and decided to take up M–L–M as the party's guiding ideology. After the party's first conference which was held in the North-East, the party issued a statement declaring that the MCPM has decided to carry out the New Democratic Revolution and would conduct the protracted people's war in collaboration with the other \"Maoist revolutionary parties.\"\n\nThe Coordinator of the Standing Committee of MCPM is Kyonghan, and its vice chairperson is Mang Ulen San. The Publicity and Propaganda secretary is Nonglen Meitei. The MCPM has alleged that Chingranglen Meitei, who was working as the General Secretary of the party was ferret out and arrested by a squad of the Indian armed forces, while he was approaching towards his comrades. On 20 May 2014, the MCPM released an official statement that the party was not being able to trace Chingranglen Meitei since the time of his alleged abduction [by Indian personnel], and has no clue about his \"whereabouts.\"\n\nA united revolution is still a failure in Manipur due to cerebrated design of those trying to create division amongst indigenous community inhabiting in the state from time immemorial.| Nonglen Meitei, in 2012\n\nThe MCPM structured the party's Central Military Commission (CMC) on 21 September 2012, and Taibanglen Meitei is also the CMC's chairperson.\n\nOn 21 September 2012, the MCPM also constituted an armed wing in the guidance of its CMC, known as \"New People's Militia,\" whose objective is to muster a \"People's Guerilla Army.\" The party's chairperson has voiced that the New People's Militia (NPM) was established in the light of Mao's Theory of Three Magic Weapons, and it aims at \"carrying out offensive against colonial forces to regain Manipur people's freedom status.\" The party believes that despite of being at the \"initial stage,\" it is still \"capable of launching offensives in mobile,\" and is looking forward to raise the NPM's strength, eyeing to \"effectively launch positional war with the enemy [Indian State].\"\n\nThe MCPM is a banned organisation.\n\nThe Communist Party of India (Maoist) has termed the establishment of MCPM as \"an event of historical significance in the annals of the history of revolution in South-Asia\" and has stated that \"it would fight shoulder to shoulder with them [MCPM] in the fight against the common enemy – the Indian State.\" The CPI (Maoist) had also maintained close ties with the KCP (Maoist) and the People's Liberation Army of Manipur in the past. The KCP (Maoist), in November 2010, pledged \"support\" to \"Indian Maoists.\"\nThe MCPM boycotted the Manipur Legislative Assembly election, 2012 and banned \"all election related functions\" in the state because the party believed that the \"assembly elections in Manipur would never bring welfare to the people nor bring any development\" and would just amplify the \"Indian system of rule.\"\n\nIn April 2014, the MCPM called for a \"political strike\" in Manipur and boycotted the Indian general election, 2014 in the state, saying that \"the Indian election is not needed.\" The ban imposed on the Indian general election, 2014 in Manipur by the MCPM along with the United Revolutionary Front, and the Kuki National Army (Indian) affected the political campaigning of the candidates, and they had to drop their door–to–door campaign while several candidates avoided to visit their constituencies as a violent armed action was expected beyond doubt if \"electioneering\" would have been attempted in Manipur. The MCPM had urged its comrades to closely and alertly monitor the electoral campaign of the political parties and their contestants, and to execute strategies to pester the election process while avoiding to engender inconvenience to the people.\n\n"}
{"id": "11499327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11499327", "title": "Military operation plan", "text": "Military operation plan\n\nA military operation plan (also called a war plan before World War II) is a formal plan for military armed forces, their military organizations and units to conduct operations, as drawn up by commanders within the combat operations process in achieving objectives before or during a conflict. Military plans are generally produced in accordance with the military doctrine of the troops involved.\n\nPlan XVII and the Schlieffen Plan are examples of World War I military plans. The United States developed a famous color-coded set of war plans in the early 20th century; see United States color-coded war plans.\n\nMilitary plans often have code names.\n\nIn the U.S. military, an Operation Plan (OPLAN) is a complete and detailed plan for conducting joint military operations. An OPLAN is developed by the Combatant Commander (CCDR) of a Unified Combatant Command in response to actual or potential situations for which military operations may be required. An OPLAN is executed when the commander issues an operations order (OPORD), or when the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) issues an execute order (EXORD) at the direction of the United States Secretary of Defense (Secdef) to implement a decision by the President to initiate military operations. A concept plan (CONPLAN) is an operation plan in concept form, often lacking the level of details normally found in other military plans.\n\nAmong publicly known U.S. Operations Plans are two which address possible events on the Korean Peninsula, OPLAN 5027, the U.S. general war plan which has been regularly updated since at least the mid-1990s, and OPLAN 5029, a plan catering to a sudden collapse of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. OPLAN 8044 and OPLAN 8010 are both successor plans to the Single Integrated Operational Plan, the general plan for nuclear war from 1961 to 2003. OPLAN 1003-98 was the pre-2002 plan for war with Iraq.\n\nIn North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) the successful planning of multinational military operations requires common doctrine. This doctrine is documented in Allied Joint Publication (AJP) five, which is aimed primarily at those engaged in operational-level planning, specifically commanders and staffs employed in joint force command headquarters and component command headquarters. It describes the fundamental aspects of planning joint operations at the operational level and provides an overarching framework of the key planning principles, considerations and process steps that are followed in operational-level planning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21434565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21434565", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Syria)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Syria)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture () is a government ministry office of the Syrian Arab Republic, responsible for cultural affairs in Syria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "559700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559700", "title": "Murray Thomson", "text": "Murray Thomson\n\nMurray McCheyne Thomson was born in December 19, 1922 in Honan, China where his parents were Christian missionaries. Thomson has founded many non-profits in Canada. He was the 1990 recipient of the Pearson Medal of Peace for his work in peacekeeping and was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2001. He has also been awarded the Canadian awards of the Golden Jubilee Medal and the Diamond Jubilee Medal He is a former Executive Director of CUSO.\n\nHe is credited in helping the formation of:\n\nMurray is a recognized international expert and advisor to governments, aid organizations, and lobbyists on disarmament and arms control.\nHe was significantly involved starting the United Nations World Disarmament Campaign and drafting its policy document of which was passed by the United Nations General Assembly.\nHe has continued to be active in advocating for disarmament in 2017.\nIn 2017, he led a campaign among members of the Order of Canada in calling for an international Nuclear Weapons Convention. Over 1,000 members of the order signed the petition.\n\n"}
{"id": "24502701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24502701", "title": "Muslim League schisms", "text": "Muslim League schisms\n\nThe Muslim League was established as a Muslim representative political party in British India, originally as the All India Muslim League. The All India Muslim League was the driving force behind the Pakistan Movement, which resulted in the founding of Pakistan. After independence of Pakistan in 1947, it was originally succeeded by the Muslim League which ruled the country for its first 11 years. The Muslim League was later disbanded by Pakistan's first martial law. Another \"Muslim League\", the Pakistan Muslim League, was later raised by Ayub Khan in 1962. The Pakistan Muslim League has since split into many factions over the years.\n\nThe party, which was initially set up in 1906 to look after the political interests of the Muslims of India, finally spearheaded the struggle for a separate homeland for them. Despite its success, the League suffered from two major weaknesses: lack of a well-defined social and economic programme, and lack of a strong party organisation.\n\nPakistan has an unstable party system and there is a tendency among political parties to divide into factions. Because in a multi-ethnic state like Pakistan political parties are the ultimate expression of democracy, internal rifts in them have largely contributed to political instability in the country.\n\nThe first faction was created when Awami Muslim League was founded in Dhaka, the erstwhile capital of the Pakistani province of East Pakistan, in 1949 by Bengali nationalists Huseyn Shaheed Suhrawardy, Maulana Abdul Hamid Khan Bhashani and Shamsul Huq. The Awami Muslim League was established as the Bengali alternative to the domination of the Muslim League in Pakistan. The party quickly gained massive popular support in East Pakistan, and eventually led the forces of Bengali nationalism in the struggle against West Pakistan's military and political establishment.\n\nOf all political parties in Pakistan, the Pakistan Muslim League has been most susceptible to fragmentation. It is a party whose fate has largely been controlled by outside forces rather than the party leadership or the people. In fact making and breaking of the League has been an important part of the establishment’s power strategy. Hence, not surprisingly, the League or a faction thereof remains united only when it is in power and lately the PPP-P under Zardari has become similar in many respects to the old Convention ML.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23822999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23822999", "title": "National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan", "text": "National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan\n\nThe National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan (NSC) is an intelligence agency in Kazakhstan. It was founded on 13 July 1992.\n\nThe NSC was created in accordance with a law passed by parliament in July 1992 which authorised the establishment of an agency to replace the KGB, the old national security apparatus of the Soviet Union. Initially, it retained most of the staff which the KGB had employed in Kazakhstan, as well as the powers the KGB had held; its first head, Bulat Baekenov, had worked for the KGB for over two decades. Its early years were marked by close cooperation with Russia on issues of border security and counter-intelligence against alleged foreign spies. In December 1995, a new presidential decree modified some of the NSC's powers.\n\nIn November 2008, journalist Ramazan Yesergepov published an article entitled \"Who Rules the Country: President or National Security Committee?\" It contained private NSC correspondence which was later listed as classified, resulting in his 2009 arrest and conviction on security charges. The case led to domestic and international condemnation.\n\nIn January 2010, Kazakhstani president Nursultan Nazarbaev appointed his nephew Samat Abish as the NSC's head of human resources; opposition lawmaker Serikbolsyn Abdildin of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan claimed this shows that Nazarbaev considers personal loyalty more important than skill in government posts.\n\nThe NSC includes the Arystan ('Lions') commando unit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46774332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46774332", "title": "Over Thirty Months Scheme", "text": "Over Thirty Months Scheme\n\nThe Over Thirty Months Scheme is a scheme to keep older cattle out of the human foodchain. It is based on the \"Over Thirty Months Rule\" introduced in the UK on 3 April 1996, as one of several measures to manage the risk associated with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).\n\nBy November 1997, about 1,772,000 cows had been slaughtered under the scheme, with compensation of 1 ecu per kg, reduced to .9 ecu in October 1996, and later to .8 ecu, and later still a 560 kg cap per animal.\n\nThe Royal Society of Edinburgh reviewed the scheme in 2003, in view of the steps taken to date, and the introduction of EU testing and inspection regime in 2001.\n\nIn November 2004 \"Farmer's Weekly\" announced that DEFRA intended to scrap the scheme \"as early as July 2005\". The scheme was finally abolished in November 2005. At the same time it became illegal to send cattle born before August 1996 to an abattoir for human consumption.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1821718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821718", "title": "Paul Franco", "text": "Paul Franco\n\nPaul N. Franco (born 1956) is a professor of government at Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine, and a leading authority on the British political philosopher Michael Oakeshott.\n\nFranco holds a B.A. from Colorado College, where he studied under Oakeshott scholar Timothy Fuller, an M.Sc. from the London School of Economics, where he studied under Oakeshott himself, and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, where his advisor was Joseph Cropsey, a friend and disciple of the political philosopher Leo Strauss. Before Bowdoin, he taught at the University of Chicago as a William Rainey Harper Fellow.\n\nFuller called his book, \"The Political Philosophy of Michael Oakeshott\" (1990) the \"only complete and current exposition\" of Oakeshott so far. In \"The Conservative Soul, Fundamentalism, Freedom, and the Future of the Right\" (2006) blogger Andrew Sullivan referred to Franco as one of Oakeshott's \"most insightful students.\" Franco's attempt to restore Hegel's place as an enlightenment philosopher \"Hegel's Philosophy of Freedom\" (2002) addresses a growing emphasis on Hegel's romanticism and historicism. Franco's Hegel book is now generally read alongside the work of other eminent Hegel scholars such as Robert Pippin, Charles Taylor, Steven Smith, and Alexander Kojeve. Franco's current work focuses on Friedrich Nietzsche's middle works.\n\nFranco's articles and reviews have appeared in \"The American Political Science Review\", \"Political Theory\", \"The Journal of Politics\", \"The Review of Politics\", \"Political Studies\", \"Ethics\", and \"The Political Science Reviewer\".\n\n\"The Problem of Culture\": Professor Franco delivered the Karofsky Lecture at Bowdoin College on September 6, 2007. His lecture was entitled \"Friedrich Nietzsche and Liberal Education\" and in it he formulates the \"Problem of Culture:\"\n\n\"We have seen that Nietzsche’s fundamental solution to the problem was to posit the production of great human being or geniuses as the goal of education. Such a goal he thought would provide unity to an otherwise fragmentary culture, and meaning to the otherwise egoistic lives of individuals. It is in many ways a beguiling solution, but it is also deeply at odds with the fundamental presuppositions of 21st century American democracy. For this reason, it ultimately fails to carry conviction. Even Nietzsche himself changed his mind about the nature of the goal to be aimed at and his later philosophy is littered with figures, free-spirits, supermen, new philosophers, who were meant to fill the role originally attributed to the genius. Perhaps this is one of Nietzsche’s most enduring lessons—not his specific solutions he came up with, but the tireless quest to find a goal for culture and education in a world that had lost its traditional bearings, and was headed into the long twilight of nihilism. Though he may not have discovered a goal that we find compelling today, he brings home the danger, especially for education, of doing without any goal at all\" \n\n\"Freedom after the Cold War\": Franco's work on Hegel seeks to overcome the dichotomy between positive and negative liberty as articulated by western political thinkers like Isaiah Berlin during the cold war.\n\n\"Societas\" and \"universitas\": These two poles anchor Franco's thought. The former, as expressed by Oakeshott, refers to a \"band of eccentrics\" bound together by no common purposes. Universitas refers to a political order conceived as a people consecrated to a collective enterprise. Franco's work on Oakeshott leans towards the Societas understanding of politics whereas his recent works on Nietzsche lean towards a universitas conception of politics. He does not seem to think these two are mutually exclusive. One could say his project is trying to reconcile universitas and liberalism for the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "17519677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17519677", "title": "People's Liberation Army General Political Department", "text": "People's Liberation Army General Political Department\n\nThe People's Liberation Army General Political Department (GPD; ) is the former chief political organ under the Central Military Commission of Communist Party of China. It leads all political activities in the People's Liberation Army.\n\nIts former director-generals include Liu Shaoqi, Luo Ronghuan, Tan Zheng, Xiao Hua, Li Desheng, Zhang Chunqiao, Wei Guoqing, Yu Qiuli, Yang Baibing, Yu Yongbo, Xu Caihou, and Li Jinai. Its last head was Zhang Yang, who committed suicide.\n\nThe department was disbanded in January 2016 and a new agency, the Political Work Department of the Central Military Commission was founded in its place.\n\nThe General Political Department of the People's Liberation Army played an important role for Mao Zedong during the Cultural Revolution, through its control of \"political departments\" that were set up throughout the state apparatus.\n\nIn the summer of 1964 before the Cultural Revolution, organizations called \"political departments\" were set up in throughout branches of the administration in China, in central and regional levels. Members were to study the works of Mao Zedong and emulate the army. These organizations were headed by the General Political Department, the organ by which Mao Zedong and Lin Biao exercised control over the armed forces. This made the economic \"political department\" also under command of the armed forces, rather than the Party's Central Committee. This effectively created a \"parallel chain of command\" which bypassed the Party. The role of the GDP during the Cultural Revolution meant that when the Party lines of command failed amidst chaos, alternative chains of command would be implemented. By 1966, before the Cultural Revolution began, this system was effective.\n\nThe General Political Department was led by a director, usually of General rank, and numerous deputy directors, most of whom were also accorded General rank (others were Lt. Generals). The director was a military-region level position. The last director was Zhang Yang, who served until 2016 and became head of the Department's successor body.\n\nThe department also had a number of departments under it: the General Office, the Discipline Inspection Department, the Foreign Affairs Bureau General Office, the Justice Bureau General Office, Mass Work Bureau General Office, Cadre Department, Culture Department, Directly Subordinated Organs Work Department, Liaison Department, Organization Department, Propaganda Department, Security Department. The Department also oversees the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution, the \"PLA Daily\", the PLA Literature and Art Press (Kunlun Press), PLA Pictorial, and PLA Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "429551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429551", "title": "Rassemblement pour l'Indépendance Nationale", "text": "Rassemblement pour l'Indépendance Nationale\n\nThe Rassemblement pour l'Indépendance Nationale (RIN, in English: Rally for National Independence) was a political organization dedicated to the promotion of Quebec national independence from Canada.\n\nIt was founded on September 10, 1960, by about 30 people at the very beginning of the Quiet Revolution. The founders included many of former Alliance Laurentienne members. (The Alliance Laurentienne was dissolved after the creation of the RIN.) The founding members included André D'Allemagne, Jacques Bellemare and Marcel Chaput. Other prominent members included Andrée Ferretti, Hubert Aquin and Raymond Villeneuve. D'Allemagne, having participated in the Alliance Laurentienne, said that he had found the Alliance's right-wing tendencies quite unpleasant. This was a factor leading to the creation of an officially neutral organisation. However, as the RIN attracted many new young members it quickly became associated with more radical left-wing ideas.\n\nIn October 1960, the first general assembly of the organization published its manifesto calling for the independence of Quebec. Pierre Bourgault, who had joined shortly after foundation, became its president in 1964. Following the wish of the members as expressed in a resolution in 1963, the RIN was turned into a political party. Bourgault and his impassioned, fiery speeches contributed largely to the popularity of the RIN, and is often wrongly believed to be the founder of the movement.\n\nIn 1963, Georges Schoeters, Raymond Villeneuve and Gabriel Hudon, ex-members of the RIN youth wing left the party to form the underground, revolutionary Front de Libération du Québec.\n\nIn the 1966 Quebec general election, the RIN, along with the Ralliement National (RN) won about 8.8% of the popular vote and no seats. Bourgault lost the northern Duplessis riding by a very small margin, a great accomplishment for such a third party. Although it never gathered a high number of votes Quebec-wide, it played an important role in the birth of the modern \"indépendantiste\" movement in Quebec and was very active in public demonstrations. Famous protests of the RIN include a 1964 demonstration disapproving the visit of Queen Elizabeth II to Quebec, and a 1968 protest about the presence of Pierre Trudeau on Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day that turned to riot. Their members and supporters were also present in the Montreal crowd and their symbols visible when French President Charles de Gaulle shouted his famed \"Vive le Québec Libre\" (Long live free Quebec).\n\nIn October 1967, the charismatic Quebec Liberal Party Member of the National Assembly and former cabinet minister René Lévesque left the Liberal Party when its members voted to not debate his idea of two independent but associated states (Quebec and Canada). Shortly after, the Mouvement Souveraineté-Association was founded with Lévesque as leader. The RIN quickly engaged in talks over a possible merger with the MSA. Bourgault and D'Allemagne strongly believed that the forces for Quebec independence had to unite to challenge the \"old parties\" (Liberals and Union Nationale).\n\nBourgault and Lévesque started to clash, as Lévesque had come to distrust the RIN because of its perceived rowdy behaviour. Additional opposition to the idea of a merger came from within the RIN itself; some militants (such as Andrée Ferretti) were heart-broken at the prospect of the \"end\" of their party. Ultimately, however, the desire for a strong independentist force carried the day. By 1968, the MSA came to an agreement with the Ralliement National to form the Parti Québécois, deliberately excluding the RIN as an entity. The RIN's left wing split to form the Le front de libération populaire (FLP), and Bourgault dissolved the party and instructed members to join the PQ.\n\n\nThe party had its own periodical, published monthly, then biweekly.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "431187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431187", "title": "Resident Commissioner", "text": "Resident Commissioner\n\nResident Commissioner is the title of several, quite different types of Commissioner in overseas possession or protectorate of the British Crown or of the United States of America.\n\nResident Commissioners appointed by the British crown typically reside in the territorial unit of which they are in charge. This also the case with most otherwise styled Commissioners.\n\nNotably in certain complex colonial units within the British Empire, the High Commissioner to whom was given the highest 'regional' supervision (either residing in one of the constitutive territories, e.g. in the British Western Pacific Territories (BWPT), first by the Governor on Fiji, then from 1952 onwards on the Solomon Islands; or even in a neighbouring colony, e.g. the Governor of the Straits Settlements as High Commissioner for the Federated Malay States) would commonly be represented in territories not comprising his residence by a Resident Commissioner, though in some places (including some of the Federated Malay States) similar officials were formally styled as Residents, a more diplomatic title; otherwise another type of official was also possible (e.g. the British Consul in the protected state of Tonga, a Polynesian kingdom; an Administrator on Nauru; a mere Chief Magistrate on tiny Pitcairn). In some cases one could compare his task to the Lieutenant-Governor of a minor colony, especially as the High Commissioner indeed could be a British colonial Governor doubling as such.\n\nIn the British Western Pacific Territories this was the case for:\n\n\nWhile the post of High Commissioner for Southern Africa (HCSA) was held 27 January 1847 - 31 May 1910 by the Governors of the Cape Colony, then till 6 April 1931 by the Governors-General of the Union of South Africa, after that date filled separately till 1963, there have been resident representatives in the constituent territories:\n\n\nIn India, a Resident Commissioner is the representative of the State Government with an office in New Delhi, who is also supposed to manage the reception of state government functionaries who visit New Delhi. He coordinates with various Ministries of the Central Government, Central PSUs, multi-lateral and bilateral agencies and various other organisations on behalf of the state government. he is an IAS Officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "12557456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557456", "title": "Shareholder resolution", "text": "Shareholder resolution\n\nWith respect to public companies in the United States, a shareholder resolution is a proposal submitted by shareholders for a vote at the company's annual meeting. Typically, resolutions are opposed by the corporation's management, hence the insistence for a vote. For publicly held corporations in the United States, the submission and handling of resolutions is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). \n\nShareholders submit resolutions dealing primarily with corporate governance, such as executive compensation, or corporate social responsibility issues, such as global warming, labor relations, tobacco smoking, human rights, and animal welfare.\n\nVirtually all shareholder resolutions are non-binding (or \"precatory,\" to use the legal term of art). In this sense the voting on these resolutions more closely resembles a poll than it does a (binding) referendum or plebiscite. Still, media coverage of voting on shareholder resolutions tends to focus on whether the proposal received a majority of votes, which occurs in a very small but increasing proportion of cases. According to SEC rules, defeated resolutions may be resubmitted only if they pass certain election hurdles (percentage of affirmative votes). \n\nShareholder resolutions have been an important part of activist campaigns in several cases. For example, resolutions were effective at raising public awareness and thereby pressuring corporate management about investments in apartheid South Africa, nuclear power, and labor disputes. Given these results, resolutions have been spearheaded by several coordinating groups, including the AFL-CIO and the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. Governmental and labor union pension funds also have become involved in supporting and submitting shareholder resolutions.\n\nA shareholder resolution to protest napalm manufacturer Dow Chemical resulted in a U.S. Supreme Court case called SEC v. MEDICAL COMMITTEE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, 404 U.S. 403 (1972). The court decided that the case was moot due to Dow's agreeing to include the resolution on its proxy statement. The dissent argument by Justice Douglas encourages the SEC to facilitate more shareholder resolutions. \"The philosophy of our times, I think, requires that such [404 U.S. 403, 410] enterprises be held to a higher standard than that of the \"morals of the marketplace\" which exalts a single-minded, myopic determination to maximize profits as the traditional be-all and end-all of corporate concern.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "44163047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44163047", "title": "Slavery in 21st-century Islamism", "text": "Slavery in 21st-century Islamism\n\nQuasi-state-level Islamist groups, including Boko Haram and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, have captured and enslaved women and children, often for sexual slavery. In 2014, both groups were reported to have kidnapped large numbers of girls and younger women.\n\nApparently the first report of slave-taking by Boko Haram was on 13 May 2013 when a video was released of Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau saying his group had taken women and children - including teenage girls - hostage in response to the arrest of its members' wives and children.\n\nAccording to Islamism expert Jonathan N.C. Hill, Boko Haram began kidnapping large numbers of girls and young women for sexual use in 2014. The attacks echoed kidnappings of girls and young women for sexual use by Algerian Islamists in the 1990s and early 2000s, and may reflect influence by al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.\n\nAccording to a community leader from Borno state quoted by the BBC, some captured young women and teenage girls held by Boko Haram have been forced to marry one Boko Haram fighter after another as the fighters are killed. \"Any time they go for an operation and one of the fighters is killed they will force the young woman to marry another one ... Eventually she becomes a habitual sex slave.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" reports that ISIS (also called \"Islamic State\") has taken \"as many as 2,000 women and children\" captive, selling and distributing them as sexual slaves. Matthew Barber, a scholar of Yazidi history at the University of Chicago, later stated to have compiled a list of 4,800 captured Yazidi women and children, and estimated that the overall number could be up to 7,000. Yazidi are a small minority who practice a religion based on \"a mix of Christian, Islamic, and ancient Mesopotamian beliefs\".\n\nAccording to reports endorsed as credible by \"The Daily Telegraph\", virgins among the captured women were selected and given to commanders as sexual slaves. According to an August 2015 story in \"The New York Times\" \"The trade in Yazidi women and girls has created a persistent infrastructure, with a network of warehouses where the victims are held, viewing rooms where they are inspected and marketed, and a dedicated fleet of buses used to transport them.\"\n\nIn April 2015, Zainab Bangura, the United Nations special envoy on sexual violence in conflict, visited Iraq and was given a copy of an Islamic State pamphlet including a list of prices for captured women and children. According to a story on the list in Bloomberg, the list's authenticity \"was established by UN researchers who'd gathered anecdotes on similar slave markets in Islamic State-controlled areas\". The captives are non-Muslim minorities, \"mostly Arab Christians and Yazidis\" who have refused to convert to Islam and whose adult male relatives have been executed. Bidders for the captive women and children include \"the groups own fighters and wealthy Middle Easterners.\"\n\nIn a study of the Arab slave trade from 650 C.E. to 1905 C.E., which considered human trafficking in North Africa, the Middle East, and India, Professor Ralph Austen estimates the number of slaves to be 17,000,000.\n\nFemale slavery was common during the medieval Arab slave trade, where prisoners of war captured in battle from non-Arab lands often ended up as concubines (who are considered free when their master dies). \nDuring the Islamic Golden Age, some Muslim jurists writing on military jurisprudence advocated severe penalties for rebels who use \"stealth attacks\" and practise abductions, poisoning of water wells, arson, attacks against wayfarers and travellers, assaults under the cover of night and rape.\n\nIn 1899, Winston Churchill wrote about the Islamic slave trade: \"...all [of the Arab tribes in The Sudan], without exception, were hunters of men. To the great slave markets of Jeddah a continual stream of negro captives has flowed for hundreds of years. The invention of gunpowder and the adoption by the Arabs of firearms facilitated the traffic...Thus the situation in the Sudan for several centuries may be summed up as follows: The dominant race of Arab invaders was increasingly spreading its blood, religion, customs, and language among the black aboriginal population, and at the same time it harried and enslaved them...The warlike Arab tribes fought and brawled among themselves in ceaseless feud and strife. The negroes trembled in apprehension of capture, or rose locally against their oppressors.\"\n\nThe Lieber Code of 1863 codified the protection of civilians and stated that \"all rape...[is] prohibited under the penalty of death\" and subsequent laws of war and humanitarian law have made maltreatment of civilians criminal. Slavery was formally abolished in nearly all countries in the mid-20th century.\n\nEarlier in the 20th century, Islamist authors declared slavery outdated without actually clearly affirming and promoting its abolition. This has caused at least one scholar (William Clarence-Smith) to bemoan the notable \"evasions and silences of Muhammad Qutb\". and the \"dogged refusal of Mawlana Mawdudi to give up on slavery\".\n\nAccording to some scholars, there has been a \"reopening\" of the issue of slavery by some conservative Salafi Islamic scholars after its \"closing\" earlier in the 20th century when Muslim countries banned slavery and \"most Muslim scholars\" found the practice \"inconsistent with Qur'anic morality.\"\n\nIn response to the Nigerian extremist group Boko Haram's Quranic justification for kidnapping and enslaving people, and ISIL's religious justification for enslaving Yazidi women as spoils of war as claimed in their digital magazine \"Dabiq\", 126 Islamic scholars from around the Muslim world, in late September 2014, signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, rejecting his group's interpretations of the Qur'an and hadith to justify its actions. The letter accuses the group of instigating fitna – sedition – by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community.\n\nSayyid Qutb, a leading scholar of the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood wrote in his \"tafsir\" (commentary of the Quran) that slavery was a way of handling prisoners-of-war and it \"was necessary for Islam to adopt a similar line of practise until the world devised a new code of practise during war other than enslavement\". Qutb's brother and promoter, Muhammad Qutb, vigorously defended Islamic slavery, telling his audience that \"Islam gave spiritual enfranchisement to slaves\" and \"in the early period of Islam the slave was exalted to such a noble state of humanity as was never before witnessed in any other part of the world.\" He contrasted the adultery, prostitution, and (what he called) \"that most odious form of animalism\" casual sex that are found in Europe, with (what he called) \"that clean and spiritual bond that ties a maid [i.e. slave girl] to her master in Islam.\"\n\nAbul A'la Maududi, the founder of Jamaat-e-Islami has written: \n\nAccording to CNN and \"The Economist\", the self-styled Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant \"justifies its kidnapping of women as sex slaves citing Islamic theology.\" An article entitled, 'The revival (of) slavery before the Hour,' (of Judgement Day), published in the ISIL online magazine, Dabiq, claimed that Yazidi women can be taken captive and forced to become sex slaves or concubines under Islamic law, \"[o]ne should remember that enslaving the families of the kuffar -- the infidels -- and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of the Shariah, or Islamic law.\"\n\nIt not only justified the taking of slaves but declared that those who \"deny or mock\" the verses of the Koran or hadith that justified it were apostates from Islam, asserting that as concubinage is specifically justified in the Koran:\n\nYazidi women and children [are to be] divided according to the Shariah amongst the fighters of the Islamic State who participated in the Sinjar operations [in northern Iraq] … Enslaving the families of the kuffar [infidels] and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect of the Shariah that if one were to deny or mock, he would be denying or mocking the verses of the Koran and the narrations of the Prophet … and thereby apostatizing from Islam. \n\nAnother article in \"Dabiq\" rebuked supporters of ISIS who had denied ISIS had taken slaves \"as if the soldiers of the Khilafah had committed a mistake or evil,\" and promised \"slave markets will be established.\"\n\nISIL appealed to apocalyptic beliefs and \"claimed justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of slavery as a precursor to the end of the world.\" In late 2014 ISIL released a pamphlet on the treatment of female slaves.\n\nAbubakar Shekau, the leader of Boko Haram, a Nigerian Islamist group, said in an interview \"I shall capture people and make them slaves\" when claiming responsibility for the 2014 Chibok kidnapping. Shekau has justified his actions by appealing to the Quran saying \"[w]hat we are doing is an order from Allah, and all that we are doing is in the Book of Allah that we follow.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30357885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30357885", "title": "Susannah Hagan", "text": "Susannah Hagan\n\nSusannah Hagan, FRSA (born 1951) is the founding Director of R_E_D (Research into Environment + Design) and Professor and School Research Leader at the Royal College of Art School of Architecture. She has written and lectured extensively on the theory and practice of environmental design, in particular, environmentally led urban design. Hagan's major publications include \"City Fights: Debates on Sustainable Cities\" (James & James (Science) Publishers, London, 2000); \"Taking Shape: A New Contract between Architecture and Nature\" (Architectural Press, Oxford, 2001); and \"Digitalia: Architecture and the Environmental, the Digital and the Avant-garde\" (Routledge, London, 2008).\n\nHagan was born in London and raised in England and the United States. She studied English and French literature at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut, receiving a Bachelor of Arts with Honors degree in 1973. She then moved to New York City, where she attended the Graduate School of Architecture at Columbia University, earning a Master of Architecture degree in 1978. As part of her architectural studies, Hagan spent a year abroad as an exchange student at the Architectural Association School of Architecture in London.\n\nSusannah Hagan moved from United States to London in 1991 to pursue her studies in architectural history and theory, first at the Architectural Association Graduate School and then at Birkbeck, University of London. In 1999, Hagan was awarded a Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of London. In 2002 and 2003, she pursued postdoctoral research at the University of Cambridge, completing the Master of Philosophy Program in Environmental Design and Architecture.\n\nShe taught on the faculty of the Environment and Energy Masters Program at the Architectural Association from 1996 to 2002, and in 2002, was invited to set up a new Masters Program at the University of East London. The MA Architecture: Sustainability + Design was the first to completely integrate the relevant technology and social theory with design. From 2009 to 2011, Hagan was Professor of Urban Studies and Director of the Office of Spatial Research at the University of Brighton.\n\nHer work with R_E_D includes EMPTYing CITIES, Wuppertal, Germany, 2004–05, research-by-design into the problem of \"shrinking cities,\" post-industrial cities losing population; EnLUDe 1 (Environmentally Led Urban DEsign), São Paulo, Brazil, 2005–07, a pilot research project with the LCAEE, University of São Paulo, involving environmentally led urban design on a large brownfield site earmarked for development by the city of São Paulo; and EnLUDe 2, Royal Docks, London, 2007–08, research-by-design into an environmentally led spatial planning on a high risk floodplain in the Thames Gateway.\n\nIn addition to her books on the relationship between environmental design and contemporary architecture and urban design, Hagan has also contributed to numerous others, including \"Nature, Landscape and Building for Sustainability\" (University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis, 2008) and \"Ecological Urbanism\" (Lars Müller Publishers, Baden, 2010), and to journals ranging from the Architectural Review to the Harvard Design Magazine. She has lectured internationally, including the Union of Baltic Cities Commission on Urban Planning, the annual NUTAU conference, São Paulo, the Moderna Museet, Stockholm, and the Victoria and Albert Museum, London.\n\nHagan is a Fellow of the Institute for Urban Design, New York, and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (RSA), and a member of the International Development Network, the Royal Town Planning Institute, and the Newham Borough Design Review Panel. Hagan was a finalist in the 2008/09 James Stirling Memorial Lecture Competition. In September 2010, \"The Seed Catalogue, \" an urban design competition entry submitted by Hagan, Silvio Caputo, and Mark Gaterell, was premiated in the international Integrated Habitats Design Competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33664711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33664711", "title": "Transitional Government of Ethiopia", "text": "Transitional Government of Ethiopia\n\nThe Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) was established immediately after the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) seized power from the Communist-led People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE) in 1991 and it continued until 1995, when it transitioned into the reconstituted Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, which continues to this time. Meles Zenawi was the president and Tamrat Layne the prime minister of the Transitional Government.\n\nIn May 1991 the EPRDF drove the PDRE, led by Mengistu Haile Mariam, from power in Ethiopia. The EPRDF convened a National Conference from 1 July to 5 July and the Conference adopted a National Charter, which served as an interim constitution and established the Transitional Government. The Charter created the posts of president and prime minister, an 87-member Council of Representatives and a 17-member multi-ethnic Council of Ministers. The Council of Representatives was to elect the president, and oversee transition to a permanent government, which was expected to be created in 1994. A commission was to be created to draft a new constitution to come into effect by early 1994, two and a half years later.\n\nThe Charter recognized the right of self-determination for each of Ethiopia's ethnic \"nations, nationalities and peoples\", within a federation, and called for the creation of ethnically based regional councils to replace the provinces. One of the first tasks of the new Council of Representatives was to legislate for this. A Boundary Commission was set up in August 1991 to map the boundaries of the new regions. A map was drawn up on 18 October 1991 and Proclamation 7/1992 to establish the \"National Self-Governments\" of the regions (plural: \"kililoch\"; singular: \"kilil\") was issued on 16 January 1992. The first elections for the fourteen councils were held on 21 June 1992. Following the elections, five of the regions were merged to form the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region in 1992.\n\nA Constituent Assembly was elected in 1994 to draw up a new constitution for Ethiopia. A general election was held in May–June 1995 and the new constitution took effect on 21 August 1995, ending the period of transition. The constitution adopted the name \"Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia\" for the country. It also formalised the democratic federal structure, replacing the provinces with the ethnically based regions, similar to how India formed its states soon after independence. Meles became prime minister of the Federal Democratic Republic and remained so until his death on August 20, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "382288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=382288", "title": "Union Party (United States)", "text": "Union Party (United States)\n\nThe Union Party was a short-lived political party in the United States, formed in 1936 by a coalition of radio priest Father Charles Coughlin, old-age pension advocate Francis Townsend, and Gerald L. K. Smith, who had taken control of Huey Long's Share Our Wealth (SOW) movement after Long's assassination in 1935. Each of those people hoped to channel their wide followings into support for the Union Party, which proposed a populist alternative to the New Deal reforms of Franklin D. Roosevelt during the Great Depression.\n\nThe party nominated a ticket consisting of Republican Congressman William Lemke and labor attorney Thomas C. O'Brien in the 1936 presidential election. Running against Republican nominee Alf Landon, Roosevelt won a second term with over 60% of the popular vote, while Lemke won just under 2% of the popular vote. The Union Party collapsed after the 1936 elections. Lemke served as a Republican Congressman until his death in 1950, while Coughlin and Townsend receded from national politics. Smith later founded the Christian Nationalist Crusade and became a prominent proponent of Holocaust denial.\n\nMany observers at the time felt that there was a place for a party more radical than Roosevelt and the Democrats but still non-Marxist in the political spectrum of the time.\n\nAlthough many people expected Huey Long, the colorful Democratic senator from Louisiana, to run as a third-party candidate with his \"Share Our Wealth\" program as his platform, his bid was cut short when he was assassinated in September 1935.\n\nIt was later suggested by historian and Long biographer T. Harry Williams that the senator had never, in fact, intended to run for the presidency in 1936. Instead, Williams argued that Long had been planning with Father Charles Coughlin, a Catholic priest and populist talk radio personality, to run someone else on the soon-to-be-formed Share Our Wealth Party ticket. According to Williams, the idea was that this candidate would split the left-wing vote with President Roosevelt, thereby electing a Republican president and proving the electoral appeal of SOW. Long would then wait four years and run for president as a Democrat in 1940. \n\nPrior to Long's death, leading contenders for the role of the sacrificial 1936 candidate included Senators Burton K. Wheeler (D-Montana) and William E. Borah (R-Idaho), and Governor Floyd B. Olson (FL-Minnesota). After the assassination, however, the two senators lost interest in the idea (Borah ran as a Republican, garnering only a few delegates and losing the nomination to Kansas governor Alf Landon) and Olson was diagnosed with terminal stomach cancer.\n\nThe Union Party suffered from a multiplicity of problems almost from the moment of its inception. A primary one was that each of the party's three principal leaders seemingly saw himself, not its presidential nominee William Lemke, as the real power figure and natural leader of the party. His charisma attracted more people than did the other candidates. Another was that each man's movement was largely held together by personality more than a truly cohesive ideology: in the case of Coughlin and Townsend their own personalities; in the case of Smith, the memory of the late Huey Long's charismatic personality. Smith himself was considered a far less charismatic figure. Some critics charged that the Union Party was in fact controlled by Father Coughlin, a former Roosevelt supporter who had broken with Roosevelt and by 1936 had become an antisemite. Smith had also turned to antisemitism, which was not consistent with the views of Long, Townsend, and Lemke, and reduced the appeal of the group among many progressives.\n\nThe Union Party attracted modest support from populists on both sides of the political spectrum who were unhappy with Roosevelt and from the remnants of earlier third parties such as the Farmer-Labor Party. Others such as \"The Nation\" magazine were wary of the new party and backed Roosevelt. Presaging more recent debates over the Reform Party, the Green Party, H. Ross Perot, and Ralph Nader, some falsely considered the party either a left-wing spoiler party which would hurt Roosevelt, or an unworkable alliance between left-wing and right-wing populists. More traditional parties on the left such as the Socialist Party denounced the Union Party.\n\nWilliam Lemke, a U.S. Congressman from North Dakota, was chosen as the party's nominee for the 1936 presidential election. Lemke received 892,378 votes nationwide, or less than 2 percent of the total popular vote, and no electoral votes. However, even this meager showing was among the best for a U.S. third party between the 1924 Progressives and the 1948 Dixiecrats, although, according to Svend Petersen's \"A Statistical History of the American Presidential Elections\", Norman Thomas' percentage in 1932 was 2.23 percent. \n\nThe vice-presidential nominee was Thomas C. O'Brien, a labor lawyer from Boston.\n\nJacob S. Coxey of Coxey's Army fame, socialist leader and frequent independent candidate for the United States Congress, ran for Congress in 1936 on the Union Party ticket in Ohio's 16th District. He received 2,384 votes or 1.6% of the vote (4th place).\n\nThe Union Party was disbanded shortly after the 1936 elections. Presidential nominee Lemke continued to serve in Congress as a Republican, and died in office while serving an eighth term. Father Coughlin announced his retirement from the airwaves immediately after the disappointing returns of the 1936 election, but returned to the air within a couple of months; upon U.S. entry into World War II, the Roman Catholic Church ordered Father Coughlin to retire from the airwaves and return to his duties as a parish priest, and he died in obscurity in 1979. Townsend, already quite elderly, saw his movement largely supplanted by the enactment of Social Security the next year and also largely became quite obscure afterwards, although he lived until 1960. Smith became even more of a radical fringe figure who eventually became an early proponent of Holocaust denial. He died in 1976.\n\nIn the 1864 presidential election the Republican Party of incumbent President Abraham Lincoln ran as the \"National Union Party\" or \"Union Party\". The name was a reference to the Union faction of the American Civil War. Coughlin took the Union label for his own party, comparing the \"financial slavery\" of the 1930s to the \"physical slavery\" of the 1860s.\n\nIn the 1980 presidential election, John B. Anderson's independent bid for the presidency against Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter was in many states run on the party ballot line of the \"National Union Party\". Anderson won 6.6% of the popular vote and no electoral votes.\n\nEvents Quarterly https://web.archive.org/web/20061112171139/http://www.eventsquarterly.com/7ed/15.html\n\n"}
{"id": "3694428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694428", "title": "Vice State President of South Africa", "text": "Vice State President of South Africa\n\nThe Vice State President of South Africa was a position established between 1981 and 1984. Alwyn Schlebusch was the only holder of the position.\n\nThe position was created under constitutional reforms in 1981, which abolished the Senate, and created a President's Council, chaired by the Vice State President, to advise on the drafting of a new constitution. The post was abolished when the 1983 Constitution came into effect, combining the ceremonial post of State President with that of Prime Minister, to create an executive post, with only provision for an Acting State President. \n\nThe executive position of Deputy President of South Africa was established in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26776247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26776247", "title": "Voting advice application", "text": "Voting advice application\n\nA voting advice application or voting aid application (VAA) or vote matcher or vote compass or election compass is a Web application that helps voters find a candidate or a party that stands closest to their preferences. VAAs are a new phenomenon in modern election campaigning.\n\nIn some of the countries with popular VAAs an intense debate has broken out. Some maintain that VAAs are a fraud that can never give correct and neutral voting advice. Others contend that these applications must be commended as they focus people’s attention on the party programmes and on policy issues, compelling parties to discuss substance instead of personalities, images and campaign events.\n\nA study of VAAs by the University of Antwerp ends with a plea for a careful selection of VAA statements and for a proper process of benchmarking based on survey data. Without appropriate calibrating VAAs produce invalid results.\n\nVAA questionnaires should be completed by the candidate or party for maximum accuracy, but also VAAs completed by the journalist are published, with supposed positions taken from party programmes and debates.\n\nIn 2007, of 22 European countries, 15 had at least one VAA. Some of the most successful ones were the Dutch Stemwijzer with 4.7 million consultations in 2006 (40% of the electorate) and the German Wahl-O-Mat with 6.7 million consultations in 2009 (12% of the electorate). Research showed that usage was higher in countries with proportional electoral systems and a larger number of parliamentary political parties, including Belgium, Finland, the Netherlands and Switzerland.\n\nIn Finland, the VotingAid phenomenon has even produced a little rivalry between the most popular news channels and voters eagerly compare the results between different VAA's. Out of Finland's electorate of 4,3 million, it is reported that over 20% of them found voting advice on the most popular VAA, launched by MTV3.\n\nEmpirical research has indicated three ways in which voting behavior can be influenced by VAAs: by motivating users to engage in further research about party policies, motivating participation in the election and affecting vote intentions. A 2005 survey in Germany reported that more than half of the VAA users declared to have been motivated to do further research after taking the test. The effect of motivating participation has been confirmed by several surveys, and quantified as 22% in the 2003 elections in Finland, 8% in the 2005 elections in Germany elections and 12% in the 2003 elections in the Netherlands. The proportion of voters declaring to have changed their preferences as result of VAA has been 3% in Finland, 6% in Germany and 10% in the Netherlands, however a post-election survey conducted in Belgium showed only 1% actual change. The floating, undecided voters, however, have received a lot more help by VAA's. In a study conducted in Finland, three out of four voters say that the VAA has some effect on their voting decision. VAA helps one person out of four to make the decision straight based on the VAA's results.\n\nAlthough the help that voters receive from VAA is proven to be great, it is not the only benefit that VAA's produce. Most of the VAA's collect and save the data given by users anonymously and that way they are able to create reports that show the overall opinion of that country's political status. Some of VAA tools are more sophisticated in the reporting, and they can generate automatically many kind of different reports such as average distribution reports, comparisons between parties or voter groups and between voters and candidates. These different reporting methods help for example media channels to create interesting news and raise topics of conversation in debates. The best case of democracy-making is to have the candidates answer personally on VAA's statements. This way the VAA automatically generates full see-through to the politics, everyone can see what the candidates think. Changing your opinions is a lot harder when your answers on hot political topics are in public for everyone to see.\n\nElection Compass USA, developed in cooperation with the Wall Street Journal, was presented on January 2, 2008. Election Compass USA provides information about the 2008 US presidential elections. Within 3 weeks 1 million people visited Election Compass USA. At the end of the campaign, up to 3.8 million people used the website to obtain information about the candidates.\n\nIn collaboration with the Israel Democracy Institute a compass was developed for the Israeli Knesset elections of 2009. Over 40.000 voters visited the website in the first hour after launch alone. Around election day, a total number of 600.000 people visited the compass.\n\nTogether with the European University Institute and the Swiss Smartvote, Election Compass created the EU Profiler, a voting advice website for the European Parliament election in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58834178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58834178", "title": "West Africa Commission on Drugs", "text": "West Africa Commission on Drugs\n\nThe West Africa Commission on Drugs was launched by the Kofi Annan Foundation in 2014. Olusegun Obasanjo chaired the commission.\n\nObasanjo urged strengthening law enforcement and refocussing efforts on \"high-level criminals rather than the easy – and misleading – wins gained by arresting drug users and petty dealers.\"\n\nIt produced a report “Not Just in Transit: Drugs, the State and Society in West Africa” which was launched in Dakar, Senegal on 11 September 2018. The report urged West African governments to overhaul their drug laws to decriminalise personal use and prioritise treatment. Abuse of opioids, particularly Tramadol has become a major health crisis in the region. \n\nThe commission proposed a detailed Model Drug Law which would end all criminal penalties relating to personal drug use and possession. This would allow law enforcement efforts to focus on unauthorised drug production and trafficking offences.\n\nIt is suggested that Ghana may become the first Sub-Saharan country to decriminalise personal drug use and possession.\n"}
{"id": "50350826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50350826", "title": "Withdrawal from the Eurozone", "text": "Withdrawal from the Eurozone\n\nWithdrawal from the Eurozone denotes the process whereby a Eurozone member-state, whether voluntarily or forcibly, stops using the Euro as its national currency and leaves the Eurozone.\n\nThe possibility of a member state leaving the Eurozone was first raised after the onset of the Greek government-debt crisis. The term \"Grexit\" itself was reportedly first used by Citigroup economists Willem Buiter and Ebrahim Rahbari in a 2012 report about the possibility of Greece leaving the Eurozone. In the 2015 edition, the term \"Grexit\" entered the Oxford Dictionary, defined as \"a term for the potential withdrawal of Greece from the Eurozone, the economic region formed by those countries in the European Union that use the euro as their national currency. \n\nSpeculation followed about other countries as well, such as Italy, withdrawing from the Eurozone, with economist Nuriel Roubini submitting that \"Italy may, like other periphery countries [of the Eurozone], need to exit the euro and go back to a national currency, thus triggering an effective break-up of the Eurozone.\"\n\nAs of July 2018, no country has withdrawn from the Eurozone.\n\nThe prevailing legal opinion is that there is no provision in any European Union treaty for an exit from the Eurozone. In fact, it has been argued, the Treaties make it clear that the process of monetary union was intended to be \"irreversible\" and \"irrevocable.\" However, in 2009, a European Central Bank legal study argued that, while voluntary withdrawal is legally not possible, expulsion remains \"conceivable.\" Although an explicit provision for an exit option does not exist, many experts and politicians in Europe, have suggested an option to leave the Eurozone should be included in the relevant treaties.\n\nOther analysts have submitted that there are basically three ways of exiting the Eurozone: by leaving and subsequently rejoining the EU, whereby a renewed membership in the European Union would be possible only when economic convergence had been achieved; through a Treaty amendment; or through a European Council decision. The amendment would involve an extension of Article 50 of the European Treaty that would set out the process for exiting the euro.\n\nA decision by the European Council would \"probably\" have to be unanimous and \"with the consent of the European Parliament.\" It would state that a Eurozone member-state \"will no longer be part of the Eurozone\" and will become a member-state \"with a derogation\", by withdrawing the Council's earlier decision for that state's entry into the Eurozone. Article 139 regulates the terms of this \"derogation\":\nMember States in respect of which the Council has not decided that they fulfil the necessary conditions for the adoption of the euro shall hereinafter be referred to as 'Member States with a derogation'.\n\nThe competence of the Council to retract its earlier decision would \"possibly\" invoke the argument that a given competence to decide on a matter always includes the competence to retract that decision. Additionally, this retractile power can be derived from the \"flexibility clause\" of article 352 TFEU, which grants the Council, on a proposal from the Commission and with the consent of the European Parliament, the ability to unanimously adopt the \"appropriate measures\" to attain one of the objectives set out in the Treaties as set out in Article 3 of the European Union – essentially ascertaining that staying in the Eurozone would be so \"devastating\" for the well-being of the people of the member-state, and/or the rest of the peoples of Europe, that an exit would be legitimate in light of the Treaties' objectives. Then, it would be ostensibly possible to take a decision retracting the previous decision that approved entry to the Eurozone.\n\nAcknowledging that the method of any departure from the Eurozone remains \"unknown,\" legal analysts have pointed out that any potential withdrawal \"includes the spectre that euro obligations owed by residents of departing member states might be redenominated into [the] newly established national currencies.\"\n\nOn the issue of leaving the Eurozone, the European Commission has stated that \"[t]he irrevocability of membership in the euro area is an integral part of the Treaty framework and the Commission, as a guardian of the EU Treaties, intends to fully respect [that irrevocability].\" It added that it \"does not intend to propose [any] amendment\" to the relevant Treaties, the current status being \"the best way going forward to increase the resilience of euro area Member States to potential economic and financial crises. The European Central Bank, responding to a question by a Member of the European Parliament, has stated that an exit is not allowed under the Treaties.\n\nThe economist, Professor Joseph Stiglitz of Colombia University remarked that \"the challenge, of course, will be to find a way to leave the eurozone that minimizes the economic and political costs. A massive debt restructuring, carefully done, with special attention to the consequences for domestic financial institutions, will be essential. Without such a restructuring, the burden of euro denominated debt would soar, offsetting possibly a large part of the potential gains.\" \n\nAt the American Economic Association's annual meeting of 2015, Berkeley University economic historian Barry Eichengreen predicted that the withdrawal of a member state, such as Greece, from the Eurozone, would \"set off [a] devastating turmoil in financial markets.\" At the same event, Harvard professor of Public Policy and professor of Economics Kenneth Rogoff characterised the overall common-currency project in Europe a \"historic disaster\", while Harvard professor of Economics and NBER president emeritus Martin Feldstein opined that \"there may be no way to end to [the] Euro crisis,\" and suggested that to avoid a break-up and \"ensure the Euro's survival,\" the best way forward \"would be for each individual Eurozone member-state to enact its own tax policies to spur demand, including cutting the value-added tax for the next five years to increase consumer spending.\"\n\nSpecifically for Greece, a 2015 PwC study expected the \"new drachma\" to depreciate \"almost immediately\" and inflation in the country to rise \"sharply\" to around 6% on average. The study predicted that \"the [new currency's] depreciation would lead to a high inflationary environment with a medium-term inflation rate of around 4%, more than double the expected rate in the Eurozone.\" German ordoliberal economist and president of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research Hans-Werner Sinn, on the other hand, argued for the economic benefits for Greece if the country were to withdraw from the Eurozone.\n\nIn 2015, German finance minister Wolfgang Schäuble reportedly proposed that Greece \"temporarily\" exits the Eurozone for 5 years and re-introduces a national currency. The \"informal\" proposal contained a provision whereby Athens would transfer state assets worth €50 billion into a trust fund located in Luxembourg and controlled by the European Stability Mechanism, in order for the assets to be sold off and the proceeds to pay off part of the Greek debt. Analysts compared this \"asset-stripping enterprise\" to West Germany's privatisation of East German state-property after the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.\n\nThe German finance minister, subsequently, stated that the German side \"only called attention to the possibility that Athens itself can decide on taking a timeout,\" explaining that \"[d]ebt relief is not possible within the currency union. European treaties do not allow it.\" Schäuble's informal proposal was reportedly withdrawn from the agenda by common agreement between the Greek government and the Eurozone leadership.\n\nFinland's parliament decided in late 2015 to debate within the next year whether to quit the Eurozone or not, in a move seen by analysts as unlikely to end Finland's membership in the single-currency zone but would \"highlight Finns' dissatisfaction with their country's economic performance.\"\n\nIn the mid-2010s, polls conducted across Europe, showed that because of the general \"disillusionment with the European Union,\" which has \"more noticeably affected Greece, Belgium, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Italy,\" there is also a \"significant erosion\" in the support for a common currency. In the majority of European countries surveyed in 2015 by Gallup International most respondents \"oppose the Euro.\" In the two \"key Eurozone members\" Germany and France, as well as in Spain, majorities in favour of retaining the Euro as common currency are present. Among Eurozone members the strongest anti-Euro sentiments were registered in Italy and Greece.\n\nIn 2015, the Greek parliament approved the government's proposal for a referendum that would ostensibly decide, through a decision between \"Yes\" or \"No,\" the way forward in the ongoing negotiations of Greece with the creditors' institutions. Despite the claims by analysts abroad and in Greece that the referendum might open the way for Greece's withdrawal from the Eurozone, and despite polls showing that Greek citizens would prefer keeping the common currency \"at all costs,\" the referendum, conducted on 5 July 2015, returned a result of 61.3% for \"No\" and 38.7% for \"Yes.\" On Monday, 13 July 2015, the government of Greece accepted the bailout package offered by the creditors' institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30794802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30794802", "title": "Yuri Bogdanovich", "text": "Yuri Bogdanovich\n\nYuri Nikolayevich Bogdanovich () (1849–1888) was a Russian revolutionary and Narodnik. His cadre name was Kobozev ()\n\nBogdanovich was born on April 1, 1849 in Nikolskoye, in Toropets Uyezd, Pskov Governorate, into a noble family.\n\nIn 1869 Bogdanovich began work as county surveyor in the Velikiye Luki county of Pskov province. In 1871 he entered the St. Petersburg Medical-Surgical Academy but left in 1873 without being graduated, to concentrate on political activities. He began, with Vera Figner, to agitate among the peasants in the Volsky district of Saratov province.\n\nIn 1876 Bogdanovich joined the new Land and Liberty organization. On December 6, 1876, he participated in the \"Kazan demonstration\" in St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 1879, Land and Liberty split into two factions. One faction (the \"villagers\") supported continued agitation and propaganda in the countryside, the other faction (the \"politicals\") supported adopting more direct methods: terrorism. Bogdanovich supported the latter position and when Land and Liberty broke in two, he joined the resulting splinter organization, the People's Will (Narodnaya Volya).\n\nIn 1880 Bogdanovich became a member of the executive committee of the People's Will and was an active participant in organizing the assassination of Tsar Alexander II on March 1, 1881.\n\nUnder his of Kobozeva, Bogdanovich had opened a cheese shop on Malaya Sadovaya Street in St. Petersburg, from which a tunnel was dug to the middle of the street for laying mines. On the day before the assassination (February 28) the shop was raided, but the tunnel was not discovered. The tunnel was not used in the March 1 assassination and Bogdanovich escaped the ensuing dragnet.\n\nBogdanovich worked to help recover the People's Will from its ideological and organizational crisis that followed the assassination. He was active in the Red Cross of the People's Will, a prisoner relief organization, and helped organize escapes as well as legal appeals for the release of prisoners.\n\nIn 1881, Bogdanovich went to Siberia to prepare the Krasnoyarsk - Kazan section of the route for escaping prisoners and exiles. For a while he was hidden by Nadezhda Golovin while preparing the escape of Sophia Bardeen.\n\nOn May 15, 1882, Bogdanovich was arrested in Moscow and tried on charges of co-sponsoring the People's Will, conspiracy to commit terrorist acts, operating a bomb factory, and other charges. After a trial lasting from March 28 to April 3 he was sentenced to death.\n\nOn May 28 the sentence was commuted to life imprisonment, and Bogdanovich died in Shlisselburg Fortress of tuberculosis on July 18, 1888.\n\n\n"}
