{"id": "34306140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34306140", "title": "Albert Horsfall", "text": "Albert Horsfall\n\nAlbert Korubo Horsfall is a former Nigerian security chief. Albert Horsfall was born on 22 December 1941 at Buguma in present-day Rivers State. Horsfall was a police man and pioneer member of the National Security Organization (NSO). He was also the first Director general of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), the fifth Director general of the State Security Service (SSS) and the pioneer Chairman of the Oil Minerals Producing Areas Development Commission (OMPADEC).\n\nAlbert Horsfall grew up in Degema, the administrative headquarters of Degema Division, one of the four divisions that made up the then Rivers Province. Horsfall's father was a successful merchant and he fathered 11 children; three of whom died. Albert left home at the age of seven to live with an uncle, Alex Horsfall, a top civil servant who lived at Degema Consulate. In 1947, Albert began his elementary schooling at Saint Batha School, Degema; he remembers walking from Degema Consulate, then an area populated by expatriates and Nigerian civil servants to his school.\n\nIn 1951, Horsfall's schooling was disrupted by the death of his uncle Albert in the United Kingdom while taking in-service training. Albert had to return to his parents in Buguma, where he completed his primary education at Saint Michael's School, Emuohua. In 1959, he graduated from Christ School of Commerce Onitsha, a school owned by his father's friend.\n\nAt age 17 in 1962, he joined the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) for cadet training, but had to wait a year before this could begin. In 1965, he completed his training with the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). After a brief stint in Abakaliki, Horsfall was selected to join the Special Branch; at the time, the top three cadet graduates were selected for posting in either the A Department Force Headquarters, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), or the Special Branch. Soon after, Horsfall's boss and Special Branch commissioner, J. J. Sullivan, a retired British Major recognized Horsfall's potential and deployed him to the Border control unit at Enugu. At the time, most Nigerian officers in the Special Branch were regarded by the expatriate officers as being more loyal than intelligent.\n\nAfter Sullivan went on retirement leave, his Nigerian successor, T. H. Fagbola, who needed capable Nigerian officers to work with, assigned Horsfall back to headquarters in Lagos. Soon after, Horsfall attended an intelligence training course in the United States. While he was there in 1966, the Nigerian Civil War broke out. Horsfall, from the southern part of the country, returned to Nigeria on the side of the Federal Government. At the time, General Yakubu Gowon's government had dissolved the country's four regions—Northern Region, Western region, Mid-Western Region, and the Eastern Region—into 12 new states. This was calculated to fragment support for the seceding Biafran state, which was mostly made up of the Eastern Region and the Mid-Western State. Horsfall's new Rivers State was formerly part of the Eastern Region, which now sided with the Federal Government in the war.\n\nWhen Horsfall returned from the United States, the Special Branch was severely short-staffed because of the exodus of easterners to seceding Biafra. This situation thrust a greater workload on him and might in part also account for his rapid rise in the service. Horsfall claims to have been embedded with the federal troops in Opobo, Calabar, Onne, and Port Harcourt; he obviously would have held some advantage in this role because he was indigenous to the area.\n\nIn 1972, Horsfall married Henrietta. She was one of a couple of young women he had helped move to Lagos to continue their education during the civil war, and he knew her family. They have seven children.\n\nHorsfall remained with the Special Branch until 1976, when the department was excised from the NPF due to the creation of the National Security Organization (NSO). Horsfall, by then an Assistant Commissioner of Police joined the NSO as an officer under the first Director-General, Colonel Abdullahi Mohammed.\n\nAlbert Horsfall claims he had always wanted to study law but had not been able to because of the demands of his job. His former bosses at the Special Branch and the NSO, M. D. Yussuf and Abdullahi Mohammed, had refused his applications for a study leave on the grounds he was too useful to their organizations to lose. He eventually left the NSO without official leave to study law in 1979. He was able to do this during the handover period between the outgoing director general, Colonel Abdullahi Mohammed, and the incoming director general, Umaru Shinkafi. Horsfall alleged that Shinkafi was sympathetic to his cause because Shinkafi himself, a former commissioner of police, had also taken leave of the Police to study law.\n\nHorsfall rose through the ranks of the NSO and eventually became the agency's second deputy director general, replacing Peter Odukwe after he was retired in 1984 during a purge of Shinkafi-era operatives by the new NSO director general, Ambassador Mohammed Lawal Rafindadi. Horsfall held this position till the dissolution of the NSO in 1986 by the new military government headed by General Ibrahim Babangida. During his time as NSO deputy director general under Rafindadi, the agency was at its height of notoriety. Political repression was rife, arrest and detention without trial under the infamous Decree 2 (state security; detention of persons) and Decree 4 (press gag) was common. One of the more notorious actions of the NSO during this period was the \"Dikko Affair.\" The Dikko Affair was an attempt by the NSO and an Israeli collaborator to kidnap and repatriate second republic Transport Minister Alhaji Umaru Dikko from his United Kingdom exile in 1984. The attempt failed and Nigeria suffered great diplomatic and economic repercussions, Horsfall has denied any involvement in the attempt.\n\nThe Babangida government launched investigations into NSO activities under Rafindadi, a Commission of Inquiry headed by former NSO Director General Umaru Shinkafi was also instituted. The security services were reorganised under Decree 19 of 1986, which led to the creation of three agencies: the State Security Service (SSS), the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), and the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA). The new government appointed Horsfall the first director general of the NIA. The NIA was responsible for Nigeria's foreign intelligence. Horsfall held this position until 1990, when he replace Alhaji Ismaila Gwarzo as the SSS' fifth director general.\n\nOn 10 October 1992, Horsfall left the SSS. From 1993, he was the first chairman of the Oil Mineral Producing Areas Development Commission (OMPADEC), a special purpose vehicle established by the government to bring about rapid development to the oil-producing Niger Delta; Horsfall is indigenous to the area.\nHorsfall hired Goodluck Jonathan, later a president of Nigeria, for OMPADEC, Jonathan's first public service job. On 22 February 1996, the OMPADEC Board was dissolved. Horsfall and the OMPADEC commissioners were removed based on claims by the Abacha government of widespread non-performance by contractors; the government claimed these contractors received mobilization money but failed to perform satisfactorily. This followed a prolonged campaign of calumny mounted by Dr. Junaid, the fiery advocate of northern supremacy who Horsfall forcefully removed from the OMPADEC Board in 1995. In defence of his role and integrity, Horsfall claimed with authentic figures and statistics from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that during his three years of service in OMPADEC, the Commission had received only 11.48 billion naira approximately $133,488,372 from government through monthly disbursements from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and that with this paltry sum he had performed a near miracle by dotting the whole of the nine oil-producing states with several on-going, medium and major projects and actually completed and commissioned 102 such projects and put them in use by the various communities throughout those oil-producing states.\n\nFollowing the OMPADEC Commission's dissolution and the removal of Horsfall and his Board, five different investigation panels probed the allegations of corruption, uncompleted projects, and debts being owed by contractors to OMPADEC. These included a panel headed by the famous anti-corruption crusader Economics Professor Sam Aluko. None of these panels returned a verdict of corruption or improprieties on Horsfall. He returned to normal life, is enjoying his normal pension, and is a legal consultant. He has been chairman or a member of several federal constitutional review bodies, special adviser to President Obasanjo on Niger Delta Development, rehabilitation of militant and delinquent Rivers State youth, a member of the Nigerian National Constitutional Conference 2014, and a member of its special committee of 50 \"wise men.\"\n\nIn 1997, he established his law firm, Horsfall and Company.\n"}
{"id": "59051210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59051210", "title": "Amitav Banerji", "text": "Amitav Banerji\n\nAmitav Banerji (5 December 1926) is an Indian Judge and Former Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court\n\nBanerji educated from A.B.I. College, Allahabad and passed law from the Allahabad University. He was enrolled as an advocate on 27 August 1951 and started practice in the Allahabad High Court. Banerji worked on Criminal matters as well as the Civil, Constitution and Company matters. In 1973 he was Appointed as Additional Judge of the Allahabad High Court and became permanent Judge on 4 August 1975. Justice Banerji was elevated in the post of the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court on 16 July 1987 and retired on 6 November 1988.\n"}
{"id": "27312013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27312013", "title": "Andrew Maguire (whistleblower)", "text": "Andrew Maguire (whistleblower)\n\nAndrew Maguire is a British commodities trader and whistleblower. He presented evidence to United States regulators alleging that fraud had been committed, and that prices in the international gold and silver markets had been manipulated. No regulatory or legal action has been taken as a result of his accusations.\n\nOn 29 March 2010 he was interviewed on the radio with Gold Anti-Trust Action Committee (GATA) board member Adrian Douglas. He went public in April 2010 with assertions of market manipulation by JPMorgan Chase and HSBC of the gold and silver markets, prompting a number of lawsuits, including a class action lawsuit. Maguire said \"JPMorgan acts as an agent for the Federal Reserve; they act to halt the rise of gold and silver against the US dollar. JPMorgan is insulated from potential losses (on their short positions) by the Fed and/or the U.S. taxpayer.\" \"No one at JPMorgan is familiar with Andrew Maguire,\" said Brian Marchiony, a JPMorgan spokesman. HSBC declined to comment. Maguire was not a former Goldman Sachs trader as has often been reported although he did work briefly for J. Aron & Co. which was acquired by Goldman Sachs in 1981.\n\nIn an interview with CBC aired in April 2013 Andrew Maguire described how mysterious traders, allegedly working for bullion banks JPMorgan and to a lesser extent HSBC, waited for most of the major markets from Shanghai to London to be closed then concentrated their dealing on COMEX. He explained how traders were trading virtual or electronic silver anonymously using algorithmic trading systems \"moving in and out of the futures markets in the blink of an eye. Four hundred contracts a second, each contract represents 5,000 troy ounces of silver.\" Maguire described a sudden and massive wave of selling of up to 45,000 contracts which drove the price of silver down. \"Investors big and small try to cut their losses and sell as the price drops.\" People who had invested heavily lost everything. Then the mysterious seller just as suddenly started buying the electronic silver again. The price of silver soared as did profits for the seller. 45,000 contracts with a profit of $80,000 per contract totaled $3,600,000,000 for the mystery seller.\n\nAccording to Maguire, the precious metals markets trade \"pretty much in tandem\", but because the silver market is so much smaller, it is harder to disguise one's activities and therefore easier to figure out who is behind a manipulative event. After Bear Stearns and their short silver positions were acquired by JPMorgan, manipulative events in the silver market became more frequent. Maguire decided to inform the CFTC. He contacted commissioner Bart Chilton, who had Eliud Ramirez, a senior investigator from the CFTC's enforcement division, get in touch with Maguire. Maguire explained the manipulations in great detail, both over the phone in an hour-long interview and afterward, in a series of e-mails with screen shots.\n\nMaguire then predicted a manipulative event in the silver market and gave detailed information in an e-mail to the CFTC about what to expect, sending it on 3 February 2010, two days prior to the event. The event transpired exactly as Maguire predicted. While the event was taking place, Maguire sent e-mails in real time, pointing out certain details because the CFTC enforcement seemed not to know what to look for or how to interpret the data.\n\nGATA chairman Bill Murphy gave a detailed account of Maguire's allegations to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), stating how \"JP Morgan Chase signals to the market its intention to take down the precious metals. Traders recognize these signals and make money shorting the metals alongside JPMorgan. [He] explained how there are routine market manipulations at the time of option expiry, non-farm payroll data releases, and COMEX contract rollover, as well as the \"ad hoc\" events.\"\n\nThe United States Department of Justice's Antitrust Division and the CFTC are conducting civil and criminal probes stemming from a \"New York Post\" article concerning Maguire's allegations. Following publication of the article, JPMorgan released a statement that they are not under investigation by the Department of Justice or the CFTC. The CFTC has interviewed 32 people and reviewed 40,000 documents, but as of May 2011, no action has been taken. On 24 February 2011, in less than an hour, the price of silver fell $1.50 per ounce before recovering. Another London-based trader, Richard Guthrie, wrote to Chilton to complain about the event, asking “How many investors lost money and positions to the financial benefit of an elite few?” Chilton believes violations of the law have taken place and wants to see prosecutions move forward, but the five-member commission has yet to act.\n\n"}
{"id": "53688146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53688146", "title": "Anthony Atamanuik", "text": "Anthony Atamanuik\n\nAnthony Atamanuik (born June 15, 1974) is a writer, actor, and comedian. Atamanuik is known primarily for his impersonation of U.S. President Donald Trump, during the campaign and his presidency, first on the Trump vs. Bernie debate tour and then on \"The President Show\".\n\nAtamanuik was born to Marlene J. Yannetti, an actress, choreographer and dancer of Italian and Ashkenazi ancestry, with credits including \"How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying (musical)\" and Lawrence Peter Atamanuik, a drummer of Ukrainian ancestry, with credits including Seatrain and Alison Krauss.\n\nIn 1997, Atamanuik graduated with a bachelor of science in film theory from Emerson College. He moved to Los Angeles and worked for Jim Henson Interactive, \"Mr. Show\", and Suzanne Somers. He moved to New York in 2000. In 2002 he began training and performing at the Upright Citizens Brigade. Atamanuik appeared in the shorts \"My Wife,\" \"The Ghost\", and \"The Incredible Drunk.\" He is a member of the improv team Death by Roo Roo and as a co-host on ASSSSCAT3000 and The Tony Show With Anthony Atamanuik and wrote for Time Traveling Bong.\n\nOn television, he appeared in Brett Gelman's \"Dinner in America\" (2016), \"30 Rock\", \"Broad City\", Hulu's \"Difficult People\", MTV's \"Teachers' Lounge\", and, as himself, bartending on \"Watch What Happens Live\".\n\n\nHe is the creator and star of \"The President Show\", which premiered on Comedy Central on April 27, 2017. On the show, he impersonates Donald Trump, the President of the United States.\n"}
{"id": "23214338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214338", "title": "Aro (murderer)", "text": "Aro (murderer)\n\nAro (known only by that name) was the last person executed in Papua New Guinea.\n\nIn 1957, while Papua New Guinea was an Australian territory, Aro, then a young man, walked into a hospital \"carrying a baby and a blood-stained axe\" and stated that he had killed his two wives.\n\nHe was convicted of willful murder, sentenced to death, and executed by hanging in November 1957.\n\nThere were no further executions. The death penalty was abolished in 1970, five years before Papua New Guinea's independence from Australia. It was reintroduced in 1991, but never applied.\n\n"}
{"id": "2046320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2046320", "title": "Brahim Hemdani", "text": "Brahim Hemdani\n\nBrahim Hemdani (born 15 March 1978 in Colombes, Hauts-de-Seine) is a retired Algerian professional footballer.\n\nHemdani started his career with Cannes, where he spent two seasons. He later transferred to RC Strasbourg, spending three seasons with the club. He then joined Marseille, which he helped reach the UEFA Cup final in 2004.\n\nHemdani then joined Rangers on 14 June 2005 on a Bosman transfer and signed a four-year contract. He suffered from injury problems during his first season, waiting until late October to make his debut against Dundee United. Hemdani was a regular in the side from then on and helped the club reach the last 16 of the Champions League for the first time in their history. The season ended with the side finishing third in the league and trophyless. The following summer, Paul Le Guen took over as manager and Hemdani began the 2006–07 season in midfield but was moved to the centre of defence.\n\nHemdani scored his first goal for Rangers midway through that season, a shot from outside the box to equalise in the 88th minute of an Old Firm game on 17 December 2006. His second goal came in similar circumstances in a UEFA Cup match in March 2007, against CA Osasuna, scoring to equalise in injury time.\n\nOn 16 April 2007, Hemdani was named Rangers Player of the Year at an award ceremony, voted for by the club's fans. He made his 100th appearance for Rangers on 13 March 2008 in a UEFA Cup match against Werder Bremen, the club went on to reach the final that season, which Hemdani played the full 90 minutes of. However, this turned out to be his last match for Rangers as the 2008-09 season saw Hemdani frozen out of the first team. He left on 1 June 2009 having made a total of 108 appearances and scoring twice.\n\nHemdani declined the chance to be included as part of the Algeria national squad on several occasions in the past. However, in February 2008 he had a change of heart and decided to play for Algeria. Hemdani made his Algerian debut in a 2010 World Cup qualifier against Senegal on 31 May 2008.\n\n\n\n\nHemdani's family are originally from Larbaâ Nath Irathen, near Tizi Ouzou, in the Kabylie region of Algeria and he spends a significant amount of time there every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "32576400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32576400", "title": "Carl Wittman", "text": "Carl Wittman\n\nCarl Wittman (February 23, 1943 – January 22, 1986) was a member of the national council of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and later an activist for LGBT rights. He co-authored \"An Interracial Movement of the Poor?\" (1963) with Tom Hayden and wrote \"A Gay Manifesto\" (1970). Wittman declined hospital treatment for AIDS and committed suicide by drug overdose at home in North Carolina.\n\nIn 1960, Wittman entered Swarthmore College where he became a student activist. Wittman spent summers doing civil rights work in the South, and joined the national council of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). In 1966, after becoming disillusioned with homophobia in the New Left, Wittman left SDS. Wittman married Mimi Feingold the same year.\n\nIn 1967, Wittman moved to San Francisco with Feingold where they lived with other activists in an anti-draft commune. Wittman turned in his draft card to the Oakland Induction Center in October 1967 during Stop the Draft Week.\n\nWittman, while self-identified as gay since the age of 14, remained closeted until coming out in the late 1960s in an article, \"Waves of Resistance,\" published in the November, 1968 issue of the antiwar magazine, \"Liberation\".\n\nIn 1969, Wittman wrote Refugees from Amerika: A Gay Manifesto published by The Red Butterfly cell of the Gay Liberation Front January, 1970. It is considered one of the most influential gay liberation writings of the 1970s.\n\nIn 1971, Wittman moved to Wolf Creek, Oregon with his then-partner, Stevens McClave. Two years later, he began a long-term relationship with a fellow war resister, Allan Troxler, a conscientious objector.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Wittman created the North Carolina Lesbian and Gay Health Project (LGHP) with David Jolly, Timmer McBride, and Aida Wakil to address the health needs of sexual minorities in that state.\n\n\"Carl Wittman, led the development in the United States of a movement diametrically opposed to Kennedy's couples policy: \"gender-free\" dance in which there were no gendered dance roles\" (page 205, of Walkowitz' City Folk)\n\nCarl Whittman, a certified RSCDS (Royal Scottish Country Dance Society) instructor, started teaching Scottish country dancing in the San Francisco area about 1970. Carl was very involved in the gay political movements of that era. In the early 1970s, Carl left San Francisco and traveled up the coast to the artist's community of Wolf Creek, Oregon and eventually settled in Golden, Oregon with his partner, Allan Troxler. Carl became involved in the newly emerging intentional communities of gay men and lesbians in that area. He started a local community dance in his barn in Golden, Oregon, where he pulled in people from these intentional communities, as well as families and friends from around the area. His dancing community ended up being a mixture of amilies, gay men, lesbians and friends. Carl taught English and Scottish country dancing, at first, in the tradition and style in which he had learned, identifying dancers by their gender role and using gender language. He allowed anyone to dance with whomever they wished and in any role they chose, but he used the conventional gender terminology to identify these roles. Sometime thereafter, Alan challenged Carl to change this convention, and come up with something that was more appropriate for their community. Carl changed his role identification system to \"Reds\" and \"Greens\" (Reds identifying the traditional gent's position and Greens to identify the lady's position). He went on to further develop this to a method defined as \"Left File\" and \"Right File\" dancers (the left file identifying the traditional gent's role and the right file identifying the traditional ladies position). Over time, Carl started traveling around Oregon, starting other dance communities, teaching this style of English and Scottish Country Dancing. Carl developed another tradition during this time, that being of how to line up for each dance. He advocated that everyone come to the set individually and fill in the next available space. This method ensures that everyone will have someone to dance with and addressed the sometimes-awkward practice of asking someone to dance, particularly with folks new to the dance. This method has also been adopted by the Boston gender-free English country dance community with an additional note that if you desire to dance with a particular partner, wait until all spaces in the set are filled above you before coming to the set. Carl was also the dance leader and principal choreographer for the Shakespeare Festival in Ashland, Oregon in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "348503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348503", "title": "Charlie Soong", "text": "Charlie Soong\n\nCharles Jones Soong (; February 1863 – May 3, 1918), courtesy name Yaoru (耀如 \"Yàorú\", hence his alternate name: Soong Yao-ju), was a Chinese businessman who first achieved prominence as a Methodist missionary in Shanghai. He was a close friend of Sun Yat-sen and a key player in the events that led to the Xinhai Revolution in 1911. His children became some of the most prominent people in the history of the People's Republic of China and the Republic of China.\n\nCharlie Soong was born as Han Jiaozhun (韓教準) in the western suburbs of Wenchang City in Hainan province as the third son of Han Hongyi (韓鴻翼 \"Hán Hóngyì\") on October 17, 1861. He was a Wenchang Hainan native, whose ancestors were the Hakka people. As a teenager, he sailed to Boston, Massachusetts to work for an uncle at his shop in the city's Chinatown district. After working for his uncle for a short time, he acquired a job working for the U.S. Revenue Marine (the forerunner of the U.S. Coast Guard) on board the USS \"Albert Gallatin\" under the command of Captain Eric Gabrielson. After approximately a year of service, Gabrielson was transferred to Wilmington, North Carolina. Soong followed Gabrielson to North Carolina not long afterwards to work on the USS \"Schuyler Colfax\". After arriving in Wilmington, Soong eventually converted to the Christian faith and was baptized Charles Jones Soon—Charlie Soon was probably an anglicized version of his given name Jiaozhun (Chiao-Chun), but there is more confusion about where he got his middle name Jones. It was not until years later that he changed his name to Soong.\nSoon after Soong's arrival, the Fifth Street Methodist Church in Wilmington, led by the Rev. Thomas Ricaud, began making preparations to train and educate Soong for the purpose of sending him back to China to work as a Christian missionary. These plans included the Durham, North Carolina philanthropist, fellow Methodist, and tobacco magnate Julian S. Carr (of \"Bull Durham tobacco\" fame), who volunteered to serve as Soong's benefactor and sponsor. Carr had been a great contributor to Trinity College (now Duke University), and was subsequently able to get his Chinese protégé into the school in 1880, even though he met none of the qualifications for entry to university. The prospect of having a native Chinese as a missionary in China thrilled some of the ministers there. They set him to mastering the English language and studying the Bible. One year later, Soong transferred to Vanderbilt University, from which he received a degree in theology in 1885. In 1886, he was sent to Shanghai on a Christian mission after spending almost half of his life to that point abroad.\n\nSoong's career as a missionary proved to be a short one. In the late 1880s, Charlie had begun to tire of the mission and felt that he could do more for his people if he was not bound to the restrictions and methods that came with working for the church. When he founded his first business—a small printing establishment—he seemingly found it appropriate to resign from preaching. Instead, another society required his time and loyalty. Around this time, Charlie had secretly been initiated into Shanghai's thriving anti-Manchu resistance movement, more specifically an organization that went by the name of Hung P’ang, or the Red Gang. This organization had its roots in the movements to reinstate the Ming dynasty in the latter part of the 17th century, but had since transformed into a republican revolutionary force.\n\nIn 1894, Charlie Soong made the arguably most important connection in his life when he met Sun Yat-Sen at a Sunday service in a Methodist church in Shanghai. The two men were kindred spirits of sorts, sharing their Western education, region of birth, dialect, the Christian faith and a burning ambition and craving for change in China. Perhaps most importantly, they were both members of entwined anti-Manchu triads. They quickly became good friends and Charlie started funding Sun's campaigns. A political body was set up, and the plan was to connect the triads into a network of opposition. When their first attempt at uprising failed in 1895, Sun fled China, and would not come back until sixteen years later. Charlie had remained incognito during the resistance and deemed it safe to remain in Shanghai, as his name had not yet been connected to the failed coup. In the coming years, Charlie Soong funded Sun Yat-Sen's travels in search of support and major financial backing.\n\nIn the years leading up to the revolution in 1911, Charlie Soong started a family in Shanghai with his wife Ni Kwei-Tseng (倪桂珍 \"Ní Guìzhēn\"). The couple had their first child in 1890—a girl whom they named Soong Ai-ling. Their next daughter, Soong Ching-ling was born in 1893, followed by their first son T. V. Soong (Soong Tse Ven) a year later. Their last daughter, Soong Mei-ling came in 1897 and was followed by the brothers T.L. Soong (Soong Tse Liang, 宋子良 \"Sòng Zǐliáng\") and T.A. Soong (Soong Tse An, 宋子安 \"Sòng Zǐ'ān\").\n\nCharlie intended all of his children to be educated in the United States. Ai-Ling, at the early age of thirteen, was the first to go, becoming a special student at Wesleyan College in Georgia. All three sisters attended Wesleyan, with Ching-Ling and May-Ling moving to Georgia in 1907. Ai-Ling graduated in 1909, and moved back to China. Charlie installed her as Sun Yat-Sen's secretary, in charge of handling his correspondence and of decoding messages to him from the republicans. A few years later in 1911, Sun Yat-Sen was successful in bringing about the Xinhai Revolution, and the Qing Dynasty fell to be replaced by the short-lived presidency of Sun Yat-Sen.\n\nIn 1912, Ching-Ling returned to China, just in time to see the republic collapse under the leadership of Yuan Shikai. The connection between Charlie Soong and Sun Yat-Sen was now widely known, and Charlie felt that his family would not be safe in China. In 1913, they fled with Sun Yat-Sen to Tokyo. They remained there until 1916, when Charlie deemed the situation in Shanghai to be safe enough to return.\n\nWhile in Tokyo, Soong Ai-ling had married H. H. Kung, a wealthy banker, and it was no longer suitable for her to work as Sun Yat-Sen's secretary. Instead, Soong Ching-ling took the job in 1914 while in Tokyo. The relationship between Ching-ling and Sun soon turned romantic, and when Charlie Soong moved his family back to Shanghai in 1916, they secretly kept in touch. It was however problematic to pursue this relationship, as Sun was already married. Thus, Charlie was outraged when Ching-ling asked to go back to Japan to join Sun. When she then defied him and escaped on a boat to Tokyo in the middle of the night, it was enough for Charlie to break all ties with Sun and disown his daughter.\n\nCharlie Soong died on May 4, 1918. The cause was Bright's disease, known today as chronic nephritis (a type of kidney disease). Neither Sun Yat-Sen nor the rest of the Kuomintang showed any public mourning, as the clash over Ching-Ling was still fresh in the public memory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1787680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1787680", "title": "Christ myth theory", "text": "Christ myth theory\n\nThe Christ myth theory (also known as the Jesus myth theory, Jesus mythicism, or Jesus ahistoricity theory) is \"the view that the person known as Jesus of Nazareth had no historical existence.\" Alternatively, in terms given by Bart Ehrman as per his criticism of mythicism, \"the historical Jesus did not exist. Or if he did, he had virtually nothing to do with the founding of Christianity.\"\n\nAccording to mythicists, the accounts of Jesus are mostly, or completely, of a mythical nature; and if there was a historical Jesus, close to nothing can be known about him. Most Christ mythicists follow a threefold argument: they question the reliability of the Pauline epistles and the Gospels regarding the historicity of Jesus; they note the lack of information on Jesus in non-Christian sources from the first and early second century; and they argue that early Christianity was syncretistic and mythological from the beginning, as reflected in both the Pauline epistles and the gospels. Therefore, Christianity was not founded on the shared memories of a man, but rather a shared mytheme.\n\nThe Christ myth theory is a fringe theory, supported by few tenured or emeritus specialists in biblical criticism or cognate disciplines. It deviates from the mainstream historical view, which is that while the gospels include many legendary elements, these are religious elaborations added to the accounts of a historical Jesus who was crucified in the 1st-century Roman province of Judea.\nThe origins and rapid rise of Christianity, as well as the historical Jesus and the historicity of Jesus, are a matter of longstanding debate in theological and historical research. While Christianity may have started with an early nucleus of followers of Jesus, within a few years after the presumed death of Jesus in , at the time Paul started preaching, a number of \"Jesus-movements\" seem to have been in existence, which propagated divergent interpretations of Jesus' teachings. A central question is how these communities developed and what their original convictions were, as a wide range of beliefs and ideas can be found in early Christianity, including adoptionism and docetism, and also Gnostic traditions which used Christian imagery, which were all deemed heretical by proto-orthodox Christianity.\n\nMainstream scholarship views Jesus as a real person who was subsequently deified, whereas traditional Christian theology and dogmas view Jesus as the incarnation of God/Christ on earth. Mythicists take yet another approach, presuming a widespread set of Jewish ideas on personified aspects of God, which were subsequently historicised when proto-Christianity spread among non-Jewish converts.\n\nJesus is being studied by a number of scholarly disciplines, using a variety of textual critical methods. These critical methods, and the quest for the historical Jesus, have led to a demythologization of Jesus, and the mainstream historical view is that while the gospels include mythical or legendary elements, these are religious interpretations of the life and death of a historical Jesus who did live in 1st-century Roman Palestine. While scholars differ on the historicity of specific episodes described in the Biblical accounts of Jesus, the baptism and the crucifixion are two events in the life of Jesus which are subject to \"almost universal assent\". According to historian Alanna Nobbs,\nNew Testament scholar Bart D. Ehrman states that Jesus \"certainly existed, as virtually every competent scholar of antiquity, Christian or non-Christian, agrees,\" and also states that the existence of Jesus and his crucifixion by the Romans is attested to by a wide range of sources including Josephus and Tacitus.\n\nWhile there is widespread scholarly agreement on the existence of Jesus as a historical figure, the portraits of Jesus have often differed from each other and from the image portrayed in the gospel accounts.\n\nTraditional Christian theology and dogmas view Jesus as the incarnation of God/Christ on earth and as the Messiah, whose death was a sacrifice that procured atonement for all who believe Jesus to be the Christ. According to Christian traditions, the Gospels and the Pauline epistles are inspired writings, which tell us in a reliable way about the birth and the life of Jesus, his ministry and sayings, and his crucifixion and resurrection, according to God's plan.\n\nLiberal theology, following the demythologization of Jesus, emphasises his earthly life as an exemplary model to be followed by Christians.\n\nMost mythicists, like mainstream scholarship, note that Christianity developed within Hellenistic Judaism, which was influenced by Hellenism. Early Christianity, and the accounts of Jesus are to be understood in this context. Departing from mainstream scholarship, mythicists argue that the accounts of Jesus are mostly, or completely, of a mythical nature, questioning the mainstream paradigm of a historical Jesus in the beginning of the 1st century who was deified.\n\nCarrier and other mythicists are critical of the conclusions and presuppositions of historicity proponents, questioning the value of consensus as a criterion for the historicity of Jesus.\n\nSome moderate authors, most notably Wells, have argued that there may have been a historical Jesus, but that this historical Jesus was fused with another Jesus-tradition, namely the mythological Christ of Paul. Others, most notably the early Wells and Alvar Ellegård, have argued that Paul's Jesus may have lived far earlier, in a dimly remembered remote past.\n\nThe most radical mythicists hold, in terms given by Price, the \"Jesus atheism\" viewpoint, that is, there never was a historical Jesus, only a mythological character, and the mytheme of his incarnation, death, and exaltation. This character developed out of a syncretistic fusion of Jewish, Hellenistic and Middle Eastern religious thought; was put forward by Paul; and historicised in the Gospels, which are also syncretistic. Notable \"atheists\" are Paul-Louis Couchoud, Earl Doherty, Thomas L. Brodie, and Richard Carrier.\n\nSome other authors argue for the Jesus agnosticism viewpoint. That is, we cannot conclude if there was a historical Jesus. And if there was a historical Jesus, close to nothing can be known about him. Notable \"agnosticists\" are Robert Price, Thomas L. Thompson, and Raphael Lataster.\n\nWhile proponents like Earl Doherty, Price, and Carrier, are concerned with the origins of Christianity and the genesis of the Christ-figure, the perception of and debate about the Christ myth theory has increasingly turned to the simpler question whether Jesus existed or not and consequently with some scholars proposing a more moderate position.\n\nAccording to New Testament scholar Robert Van Voorst, most Christ mythicists follow a threefold argument: they question the reliability of the Pauline epistles and the Gospels regarding the historicity of Jesus; they note the lack of information on Jesus in non-Christian sources from the first and early second century; and they argue that early Christianity was syncretistic and mythological from the beginning.\n\nMost Christ mythicists argue that the evidence for the existence of a historical Jesus Christ is weak at best, pointing at a series of perceived peculiarities in the sources which they regard as untrustworthy for a historical account. Early Christian and other sources lack biographical information on Jesus, the so-called argument from silence. Instead, the Christ of Paul and the Jesus of the Gospels are of a mythical and allegorical nature. They further argue that the Gospels are a composite of various strands of thought, relying on Jewish writings, and note the similarities of early Christianity and the Christ figure with the mystery religions of the Greco-Roman world.\n\nThe seven undisputed Pauline epistles considered by scholarly consensus to be genuine epistles are generally dated to AD 50–60 (i.e. approximately twenty to thirty years after the generally accepted time period for the death of Jesus around AD 30–36) and are the earliest surviving Christian texts that may include information about Jesus.\n\nSome mythicists have questioned the early dating of the epistles, raising the possibility that they represent a later, more developed strand of early Christian thought.\n\nTheologian Willem Christiaan van Manen of the Dutch school of radical criticism noted various anachronisms in the Pauline Epistles. Van Manen claimed that they could not have been written in their final form earlier than the 2nd century. He also noted that the Marcionite school was the first to publish the epistles, and that Marcion ( – ) used them as justification for his gnostic and docetic views that Jesus' incarnation was not in a physical body. Van Manen also studied Marcion's version of Galatians in contrast to the canonical version, and argued that the canonical version was a later revision which de-emphasized the Gnostic aspects.\n\nPrice wrote that \"the historical Jesus problem replicates itself in the case of Paul,\" and that the epistles have the same limitations as the Gospels as historical evidence. Price sees the epistles as a compilation of fragments (possibly with a Gnostic core), and contends that Marcion was responsible for much of the Pauline corpus or even wrote the letters himself, while criticizing the circumstantial \"ad hominem\" fallacy of fellow Christ myth theorists holding the mid-first-century dating of the epistles (e.g. Galatians is conventionally dated ) for their own apologetical reasons. Price argues that passages such as , and are late Catholic interpolations and that was unlikely to have been written by a Jewish person.\n\nModern biblical scholarship notes that \"Paul has relatively little to say on the biographical information of Jesus,\" viewing Jesus as \"a recent contemporary.\" Bishop and historian Paul Barnett explains that\nWells criticized the infrequency of the reference to Jesus in the Pauline letters and has said there is no information in them about Jesus' parents, place of birth, teachings, trial nor crucifixion. Robert Price says that Paul does not refer to Jesus' earthly life, also not when that life might have provided convenient examples and justifications for Paul's teachings. Instead, revelation seems to have been a prominent source for Paul's knowledge about Jesus.\n\nWells says that the Pauline epistles do not make reference to Jesus' sayings, or only in a vague and general sense. According to Wells, as referred to by Price in his own words, the writers of the New Testament \"must surely have cited them when the same subjects came up in the situations they addressed.\"\n\n1 Corinthians 9:5 and Galatians 1:19 make reference to \"the brothers of the Lord\" and \"James, the brother of the Lord\" respectively. Per Galatians 1:19, mainstream scholarship holds that it attests that Paul met with James, brother of Jesus.\n\nMythicists argue that 1 Corinthians 9:5 and Galatians 1:19 are references to a fraternal brotherhood, or that \"Brother of the Lord\" connotes a meaning other than a male sibling of Jesus.\n\nGalatians 4:4 and Romans 1:3 make reference to Jesus’ birth, being: \"born () of [a] woman\" and \"born () of [the] seed of David\" respectively. Mainstream scholarship holds that Galatians 4:4 attests that Paul knew Jesus was born of a human mother and that per Romans 1:3, Paul says that Jesus was born a descendant of David—a historical ancestor in Paul's view.\n\nDoherty and Carrier hold that Paul's unique usage of the term \"made\" in the context of these references is consistent with a \"Celestial Jesus\" who was born/incarnated when a human body was made for him. Wells contends that Paul's reference to Davidic descent \"is surely to state an article of faith\" and not an assertion of historical fact.\n\n1 Corinthians 11:23–26 make reference to \"the night\" Jesus handled bread and wine, teaching Christians the theological ritual of the Lord's supper. Mainstream scholarship holds that it recalls the earthly life of Jesus \"in the context of cultic rites that assumed his divinity.\"\n\nMythicists argue that Paul's vision of Jesus inaugurating the Eucharist ritual is an etiological myth.\n\nMost scholars view the Pauline letters as essential elements in the study of the historical Jesus, and the development of early Christianity. New Testament scholar James Dunn states that in Paul \"recites the foundational belief,\" namely \"that Christ died.\" According to Dunn, \"Paul was told about a Jesus who had died two years earlier or so.\" also refers to others before Paul who preached the creed.\n\nThe Pauline letters incorporate creeds, or confessions of faith, that predate Paul, and give essential information on the faith of the early Jerusalem community around James, 'the brother of Jesus'. The Pauline epistles contain elements of a Christ myth and its cultus, such as the Christ hymn of Philippians 2:6–11, which portray Jesus as an incarnated and subsequently exalted heavenly being. These pre-Pauline creeds date to within a few years of Jesus' death and developed within the Christian community in Jerusalem. Scholars view these as indications that the incarnation and exaltation of Jesus was part of Christian tradition a few years after his death and over a decade before the writing of the Pauline epistles.\n\nYet, the development of the early Christian views on Jesus' divinity is a matter of debate within contemporary scholarship. According to a longstanding consensus, the oldest Christology was an \"exaltation Christology,\" according to which Jesus was subsequently \"raised to divine status.\" This \"exaltation Christology\" may have developed over time, as witnessed in the Gospels, with the earliest Christians believing that Jesus became divine when he was resurrected. Later beliefs shifted the exaltation to his baptism, birth, and subsequently to the idea of his eternal existence, as witnessed in the Gospel of John. This \"High Christology\" is \"the view that Jesus was a pre-existent divine being who became a human, did the Father’s will on earth, and then was taken back up into heaven whence he had originally come.\" Yet, as Ehrman notes, this subsequent \"incarnation Christology\" was also preached by Paul, and even predates him. According to the \"Early High Christology Club,\" this \"incarnation Christology\" or \"high Christology\" did not evolve over a longer time, but was a \"big bang\" which arose in the first few decades of the church, as witnessed in the writings of Paul.\n\nScholars have also argued that Paul was a \"mythmaker,\" who gave his own divergent interpretation of the meaning of Jesus, building a bridge between the Jewish and Hellenistic world, thereby creating the faith that became Christianity.\n\nChrist myth theorists generally reject the idea that Paul's epistles refer to a real person.\n\nAccording to Doherty, the Jesus of Paul was a divine Son of God, existing in a spiritual realm where he was crucified and resurrected. This mythological Jesus was based on exegesis of the Old Testament and mystical visions of a risen Jesus.\n\nCarrier argues that Paul is actually writing about a celestial deity named Jesus: Carrier notes that there is little if any concrete information about Christ's earthly life in the Pauline epistles, even though Jesus is mentioned over three hundred times. According to Carrier, the genuine Pauline epistles show that the Apostle Peter and the Apostle Paul believed in a visionary or dream Jesus, based on a pesher of Septuagint verses Zechariah 6 and 3, Daniel 9 and Isaiah 52–53. Carrier further argues that according to Paul (Philippians 2.7), Christ \"came 'in the likeness of men' (homoiomati anthropon) and was found 'in a form like a man' (schemati euretheis hos anthropos) and (in Rom. 8.3) that he was only sent 'in the likeness of sinful flesh' (en homoiomati sarkos hamartias). This is a doctrine of a preexistent being assuming a human body, but not being fully transformed into a man, just looking like one\".</ref>\n\nThe non-Pauline Epistle to the Hebrews is also relevant per Hebrews 5:7, \"in the days of his flesh\" Jesus cried and prayed to God to save him. Mythicists generally contend that this verse is anomalous with supposed traditions underlying the synoptic gospels, however Doherty and Carrier additionally hold that the phrase \"in the days of his flesh\" is consistent with a celestial Jesus.\n\nThe early Wells, and Alvar Ellegård, have argued that Paul's Jesus may have lived far earlier, in a dimly remembered remote past.\n\nWells argues that Paul and the other epistle writers—the earliest Christian writers—do not provide any support for the idea that Jesus lived early in the 1st century and that—for Paul—Jesus may have existed many decades, if not centuries, before. According to Wells, the earliest strata of the New Testament literature presented Jesus as \"a basically supernatural personage only obscurely on Earth as a man at some unspecified period in the past\". In \"The Jesus Myth\", Wells argues that two Jesus narratives fused into one: Paul's mythical Jesus and a minimally historical Jesus whose teachings were preserved in the Q document, a hypothetical common source for the Gospels of Matthew and Luke.\n\nSome myth proponents assert that the writings of Epiphanius of Salamis makes reference to a group of Jewish Christians who held that Jesus lived during the reign of Alexander Jannaeus—\"placing Jesus about 100 BCE\"—and that this was also the view presented in the Jewish writings about Jesus in the Talmud and the Toledot Yeshu.\n\nAccording to the \"Panarion\" by Epiphanius, the Jewish-Christian sect known as the Nazarenes (Ναζωραιοι) began as Jewish converts of the Apostles. Richard Carrier contends that \"Epiphanius, in \"Panarion\" 29, says there was a sect of still-Torah-observant Christians who taught that Jesus lived and died in the time of Jannaeus, and all the Jewish sources on Christianity that we have (from the Talmud to the Toledot Yeshu) report no other view than that Jesus lived during the time of Jannaeus\".\n\nTheologian Gregory A. Boyd and Paul Rhodes Eddy, Professor of Biblical and Theological Studies at Bethel University, criticise the idea that \"Paul viewed Jesus as a cosmic savior who lived in the past,\" referring to various passages in the Pauline epistles which seem to contradict this idea. In , Paul says he met with James, the \"Lord's brother\"; refers to people to whom Jesus' had appeared, and who were Paul's contemporaries; and in Paul refers to the Jews \"who both killed the Lord Jesus\" and \"drove out us\" as the same people, indicating that the death of Jesus was within the same time frame as the persecution of Paul. Boyd and Eddy doubt that Paul viewed Jesus similar to the savior deities found in ancient mystery religions.\n\nThe general consensus of modern scholars is that Mark was the first gospel to be written and dates from no earlier than , while Matthew and Luke, which use it as a source, were written between AD 80 and 85. The composition history of John is complex, but most scholars see it taking place in stages beginning as early as before AD 70 and extending as late as the end of the century. None of the authors were eyewitnesses to the life of Jesus, \"(t)he common wisdom in the academy is that stories and sayings of Jesus circulated for decades, undergoing countless retellings and embellishments before being finally set down in writing.\" According to scholar in theology Richard Bauckham the authors may have received their information very close to eyewitness reports.\n\nAccording to Carrier, \"The Gospels cannot really be dated, nor are the real authors known. Their names were assigned early, but not early enough for us to be confident they were accurately known. It is based on speculation that Mark was the first, written between AD 60 and 70, Matthew second, between AD 70 and 80, Luke (and Acts) third, between AD 80 and 90, and John last, between AD 90 and 100\".\n\nAccording to Richard Burridge, priest and biblical scholar, any study of the Gospels must first determine the genre under which they fall, in order to interpret them correctly, since genre \"is a key convention guiding both the composition and the interpretation of writings\". The gospels authors may have intended to write novels, myths, histories, or biographies, which are different genres and have a tremendous impact on how they ought to be interpreted. Among contemporary scholars, there is consensus that the gospels are a type of ancient biography, though theologian Rudolf Bultmann notes that the gospel authors had no interest in history or in a historical Jesus. Michael Vines, Professor of Religious Studies at Lees–McRae College, notes that the gospel of Mark may have aspects similar to a Jewish novel. Some scholars have argued that the Gospels are symbolical representations of the Torah, which were written in response to the Roman occupation and the suppression of Jewish religiosity.\n\nAccording to Paul Eddy and Gregory Boyd, mythicists argue that in the gospels \"a fictitious historical narrative\" was imposed on the \"mythical cosmic savior figure\" created by Paul.\n\nRobert Price notes support for the view that the gospels are a fictional composition, arguing that the Gospels are a type of legendary fiction and that the story of Jesus portrayed in the Gospels fits the mythic hero archetype.\n\nSome myth proponents suggest that some parts of the New Testament were meant to appeal to Gentiles as familiar allegories rather than history. According to Richard Carrier, the gospels are \"essentially allegory and fiction\".\n\nArguments drawing comparisons between the New and Old Testaments have traditionally been made by Christian theologians in defense of their teachings, but without doubting a historical Jesus.\n\nSome myth proponents note that some stories in the New Testament seem to try to reinforce Old Testament prophecies and repeat stories about figures like Elijah, Elisha, Moses and Joshua in order to appeal to Jewish converts. Price notes that almost all the Gospel-stories have parallels in Old Testamentical and other traditions, concluding that the Gospels are no independent sources for a historical Jesus, but \"legend and myth, fiction and redaction\".\n\nIn \"Christ and the Caesars\" (1877), philosopher Bruno Bauer suggested that Christianity was a synthesis of the Stoicism of Seneca the Younger, Greek Neoplatonism, and the Jewish theology of Philo as developed by pro-Roman Jews such as Josephus. This new religion was in need of a founder and created its Christ. In a review of Bauer's work, Robert Price notes that Bauer's basic stance regarding the Stoic tone and the fictional nature of the Gospels are still repeated in contemporary scholarship.\n\nAccording to Wells, a minimally historical Jesus existed, whose teachings were preserved in the Q document. According to Wells, the Gospels weave together two Jesus narratives, namely Paul's mythical Jesus and the Galilean preacher of the Q document. Doherty disagrees with Wells regarding this teacher of the Q-document, arguing that he was an allegoral character who personified Wisdom and came to be regarded as the founder of the Q-community. According to Doherty, Q's Jesus and Paul's Christ were combined in the Gospel of Mark by a predominantly Gentile community.\n\nMainstream biblical scholars point out that much of the writings of antiquity have been lost and that there was little written about any Jew or Christian in this period. Ehrman points out that we do not have archaeological or textual evidence for the existence of most people in the ancient world, even famous people like Pontius Pilate, whom the myth theorists agree to have existed. Robert Hutchinson notes that this is also true of Josephus, despite the fact that he was \"a personal favorite of the Roman Emperor Vespasian\". Hutchinson quotes Ehrman, who notes that Josephus is never mentioned in 1st century Greek and Roman sources, despite being \"a personal friend of the emperor\". According to Classical historian and popular author Michael Grant, if the same criterion is applied to others: \"We can reject the existence of a mass of pagan personages whose reality as historical figures is never questioned\".\n\nMyth proponents claim there is significance in the lack of surviving historic records about Jesus of Nazareth from any non-Jewish author until the second century, adding that Jesus left no writings or other archaeological evidence. Using the argument from silence, they note that Jewish philosopher Philo of Alexandria did not mention Jesus when he wrote about the cruelty of Pontius Pilate around 40 AD.\n\nThere are three non-Christian sources which are typically used to study and establish the historicity of Jesus—two mentions in Josephus and one mention in the Roman source Tacitus. According to John Dominic Crossan:\nJosephus' \"Antiquities of the Jews\", written around 93–94 AD, includes two references to the biblical Jesus in Books and . The general scholarly view is that while the longer passage in book 18, known as the \"Testimonium Flavianum\", is most likely not authentic in its entirety, it is broadly agreed upon that it originally consisted of an authentic nucleus, which was then subject to Christian interpolation or forgery. Myth proponents also argue that the \"Testimonium Flavianum\" may have been a partial interpolation or forgery by Christian apologist Eusebius in the 4th century or by others.\n\nThe other mention in Josephus is as follows:\nAccording to Josephus scholar Louis H. Feldman, \"few have doubted the genuineness\" of Josephus' reference to Jesus in and it is only disputed by a small number of scholars.\n\nPaul Eddy and Gregory Boyd, who are critical of Christ myth theorists, note that Josephus \"mentions twenty-one other people with the name Jesus,\" and argue that when Josephus called James the \"brother\" of Jesus \"called Christ\" in the \"Antiquities\", he did so to distinguish him \"from the other persons named 'Jesus' he had already mentioned.\"\n\nRichard Carrier disagrees, proposing that the original text referred to a brother of the high priest Jesus son of Damneus, named James, who is mentioned in the same narrative, in which James (the brother of Jesus) is executed by Ananus ben Ananus. Carrier further argues that the words \"the one called Christ\" likely resulted from the accidental insertion of a marginal note added by some unknown reader.\n\nOthers speculate that he was referring to a mythic Christ that had already been historicized, or to fraternal brotherhood rather than a literal sibling. This is dismissed by some in mainstream academia on the grounds that there is no evidence of a supposed \"Jerusalem brotherhood\".\n\nRoman historian Tacitus referred to \"Christus\" and his execution by Pontius Pilate in his \"Annals\" (written ), :\nThe very negative tone of Tacitus' comments on Christians make most experts believe that the passage is extremely unlikely to have been forged by a Christian scribe. The Tacitus reference is now widely accepted as an independent confirmation of Christ's crucifixion, although some scholars question the historical value of the passage on various grounds.\n\nChrist myth theory supporters such as G. A. Wells and Carrier contend that sources such as Tacitus and others, which were written decades after the supposed events, include no independent traditions that relate to Jesus, and hence can provide no confirmation of historical facts about him.\n\nIn \"Jesus Outside the New Testament\" (2000), mainstream scholar Van Voorst considers references to Jesus in classical writings, Jewish writings, hypothetical sources of the canonical Gospels, and extant Christian writings outside the New Testament. Van Voorst concludes that non-Christian sources provide \"a small but certain corroboration of certain New Testament historical traditions on the family background, time of life, ministry, and death of Jesus\", as well as \"evidence of the content of Christian preaching that is independent of the New Testament\", while extra-biblical Christian sources give access to \"some important information about the earliest traditions on Jesus\". However, New Testament sources remain central for \"both the main lines and the details about Jesus' life and teaching\".</ref>\n\nEarly Christianity was wildly diverse, with proto-orthodoxy and \"heretical\" views like gnosticism alongside each other. According to Mack, various \"Jesus movements\" existed, whose ideas converged in an early proto-orthodoxy.\n\nAccording to Doherty, the rapid growth of early Christian communities and the great variety of ideas cannot be explained by a single missionary effort, but points to parallel developments, which arose at various places and competed for support. Paul's arguments against rival apostles also point to this diversity. Doherty further notes that Yeshua (Jesus) is a generic name, meaning \"Yahweh saves\" and refers to the concept of divine salvation, which could apply to any kind of saving entity or Wisdom.\n\nDoherty notes that, with the conquests of Alexander the Great, the Greek culture and language spread throughout the eastern Mediterranean world, influencing the already existing cultures there. The Roman conquest of this area added to the cultural diversity, but also to a sense of alienation and pessimism. A rich diversity of religious and philosophical ideas was available and Judaism was held in high regard by non-Jews for its monotheistic ideas and its high moral standards. Yet monotheism was also offered by Greek philosophy, especially Platonism, with its high God and the intermediary Logos. According to Doherty, \"Out of this rich soil of ideas arose Christianity, a product of both Jewish and Greek philosophy\", echoing Bruno Bauer, who argued that Christianity was a synthesis of Stoicism, Greek Neoplatonism and Jewish thought.\n\nMainstream scholars have noted the extent and significance of Jewish belief in a chief angel acting as a heavenly mediator during the Second Temple period, as well as the similarities between Jesus and this chief celestial angel. Ehrman has even gone so far as to argue that Paul regarded Jesus to be an angel, who was incarnated on earth.\n\nAccording to Carrier, originally \"Jesus was the name of a celestial being, subordinate to God\". According to Carrier, \"This 'Jesus' would most likely have been the same archangel identified by Philo of Alexandria as already extant in Jewish theology\". Philo knew this figure by all of the attributes Paul already knew Jesus by: the firstborn son of God (Epistle to the Romans 8:29), the celestial image of God (Second Epistle to the Corinthians 4:4) and God's agent of creation (First Epistle to the Corinthians 8:6). He was also God's celestial high priest (Hebrews 2:17, 4:14, etc.) and God's Logos. Philo says this being was identified as the figure named Jesus in the Book of Zechariah.\n\nSeparately from mythicism, scholar of ancient religious studies Peter Schäfer contends that Philo's Logos was likely derived from his understanding of the \"postbiblical Wisdom literature, in particular the Wisdom of Solomon\". Professor of New Testament at Loyola University Urban C. von Wahlde notes that the Wisdom literature and the philosophical writings of Philo may furnish \"the background to the Logos of the Johannine Prologue\".\n\nAccording to mythicists, Christianity originated from a Jewish sect in a milieu where some Jews practised a form of proto-gnosticism—seeking salvation by revealed gnosis—via a mediator between God and humans, i.e. an intermediary variously known as \"one like a son of man\", \"the divine Logos\", etc. From the cultus of Paul, a divergent form of this salvation theology was later promoted for non-Jews.\n\nAccording to Doherty, a somewhat similar idea to the Greek Logos was found in Judaism, where , a personified part of God, brought knowledge of God and the Law. Similar ideas were also developed in other cultures and religions. According to Wells, the historical Jesus was derived from this Wisdom traditions, the personification of an eternal aspect of God, who came to visit human beings. Doherty notes that the concept of a spiritual Christ was the result of common philosophical and religious ideas of the first and second century AD, in which the idea of an intermediary force between God and the world were common. Doherty further notes that divine inspiration was a common concept.\n\nAccording to Doherty, the Christ of Paul shares similarities with the Greco-Roman mystery cults. Authors Timothy Freke and Peter Gandy explicitly argue that Jesus was a deity, akin to the mystery cults, while Dorothy Murdock argues that the Christ myth draws heavily on the Egyptian story of Osiris and Horus. According to Robert Price, the story of Jesus portrayed in the Gospels is akin to the mythic hero archetype. The mythic hero archetype is present in many cultures who often have miraculous conceptions or virgin births heralded by wise men and marked by a star, are tempted by or fight evil forces, die on a hill, appear after death and then ascend to heaven. According to Carrier, early Christianity was but one of several mystery cults which developed out of Hellenistic influences on local cults and religions.\n\nMainstream scholarship disagrees with this interpretation. Many mainstream biblical scholars respond that most of these parallels are either coincidences or without historical basis and/or that these parallels do not prove that a Jesus figure did not live. Christian theologians have cited the mythic hero archetype as a defense of Christian teaching while completely affirming a historical Jesus. Secular academics have also pointed out that the teachings of Jesus marked \"a radical departure from all the conventions by which heroes had been defined\".\n\nAccording to Van Voorst, \"The argument that Jesus never existed, but was invented by the Christian movement around the year 100, goes back to Enlightenment times, when the historical-critical study of the past was born,\" and may have originated with Lord Bolingbroke, an English deist.\n\nAccording to Weaver and Schneider, the beginnings of the formal denial of the existence of Jesus can be traced to late 18th-century France with the works of Constantin François Chassebœuf de Volney and Charles-François Dupuis. Volney and Dupuis argued that Christianity was an amalgamation of various ancient mythologies and that Jesus was a totally mythical character. Dupuis argued that ancient rituals in Syria, Egypt, Mesopotamia, Persia, and India had influenced the Christian story which was allegorized as the histories of solar deities, such as Sol Invictus. Dupuis also said that the resurrection of Jesus was an allegory for the growth of the sun's strength in the sign of Aries at the spring equinox. Volney argued that Abraham and Sarah were derived from Brahma and his wife Saraswati, whereas Christ was related to Krishna. Volney made use of a draft version of Dupuis' work and at times differed from him, e.g. in arguing that the gospel stories were not intentionally created, but were compiled organically. Volney's perspective became associated with the ideas of the French Revolution, which hindered the acceptance of these views in England. Despite this, his work gathered significant following among British and American radical thinkers during the 19th century.\nIn 1835, German theologian David Friedrich Strauss published his extremely controversial \"The Life of Jesus, Critically Examined\" (\"Das Leben Jesu\"). While not denying that Jesus existed, he did argue that the miracles in the New Testament were mythical retellings of normal events as supernatural happenings. According to Strauss, the early church developed these miracle stories to present Jesus as a fulfillment of Jewish prophecies of what the Messiah would be like. This rationalist perspective was in direct opposition to the supernaturalist view that the bible was accurate both historically and spiritually. The book caused an uproar across Europe, as Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 7th Earl of Shaftesbury called it \"the most pestilential book ever vomited out of the jaws of hell\" and Strauss' appointment as chair of theology at the University of Zürich caused such controversy that the authorities offered him a pension before he had a chance to start his duties.\nGerman Bruno Bauer, who taught at the University of Bonn, took Strauss' arguments further and became the first author to systematically argue that Jesus did not exist. Beginning in 1841 with his \"Criticism of the Gospel History of the Synoptics\", Bauer argued that Jesus was primarily a literary figure, but left open the question of whether a historical Jesus existed at all. Then in his \"Criticism of the Pauline Epistles\" (1850–1852) and in \"A Critique of the Gospels and a History of their Origin\" (1850–1851), Bauer argued that Jesus had not existed. Bauer's work was heavily criticized at the time, as in 1839 he was removed from his position at the University of Bonn and his work did not have much impact on future myth theorists.\n\nIn his two-volume, 867-page book \"Anacalypsis\" (1836), English gentleman Godfrey Higgins said that \"the mythos of the Hindus, the mythos of the Jews and the mythos of the Greeks are all at bottom the same; and are contrivances under the appearance of histories to perpetuate doctrines\" and that Christian editors “either from roguery or folly, corrupted them all”. In his 1875 book \"The World's Sixteen Crucified Saviors\", American Kersey Graves said that many demigods from different countries shared similar stories, traits or quotes as Jesus and he used Higgins as the main source for his arguments. The validity of the claims in the book have been greatly criticized by Christ myth proponents like Richard Carrier and largely dismissed by biblical scholars.\n\nStarting in the 1870s, English poet and author Gerald Massey became interested in Egyptology and reportedly taught himself Egyptian hieroglyphics at the British Museum. In 1883, Massey published \"The Natural Genesis\" where he asserted parallels between Jesus and the Egyptian god Horus. His other major work, \"Ancient Egypt: The Light of the World,\" was published shortly before his death in 1907. His assertions have influenced various later writers such as Alvin Boyd Kuhn and Tom Harpur. Despite criticisms from Stanley Porter and Ward Gasque, Massey's theories regarding Egyptian etymologies for certain scriptures are supported by noted contemporary Egyptologists.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s, a group of scholars associated with the University of Amsterdam, known in German scholarship as the Radical Dutch school, rejected the authenticity of the Pauline epistles and took a generally negative view of the Bible's historical value. Abraham Dirk Loman argued in 1881 that all New Testament writings belonged to the 2nd century and doubted that Jesus was a historical figure, but later said the core of the gospels was genuine.\n\nAdditional early Christ myth proponents included Swiss skeptic Rudolf Steck, English historian Edwin Johnson, English radical Reverend Robert Taylor and his associate Richard Carlile.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, several writers published arguments against Jesus' historicity, often drawing on the work of liberal theologians, who tended to deny any value to sources for Jesus outside the New Testament and limited their attention to Mark and the hypothetical Q source. They also made use of the growing field of religious history which found sources for Christian ideas in Greek and Oriental mystery cults, rather than Judaism. Joseph Klausner wrote that biblical scholars \"tried their hardest to find in the historic Jesus something which is not Judaism; but in his actual history they have found nothing of this whatever, since this history is reduced almost to zero. It is therefore no wonder that at the beginning of this century there has been a revival of the eighteenth and nineteenth century view that Jesus never existed\".\n\nThe work of social anthropologist Sir James George Frazer has had an influence on various myth theorists, although Frazer himself believed that Jesus existed. In 1890, Frazer published the first edition of \"The Golden Bough\" which attempted to define the shared elements of religious belief. This work became the basis of many later authors who argued that the story of Jesus was a fiction created by Christians. After a number of people claimed that he was a myth theorist, in the 1913 expanded edition of \"The Golden Bough\" he expressly stated that his theory assumed a historical Jesus.\n\nIn 1900, Scottish Member of Parliament John Mackinnon Robertson argued that Jesus never existed, but was an invention by a first-century messianic cult. In Robertson's view, religious groups invent new gods to fit the needs of the society of the time. Robertson argued that a solar deity symbolized by the lamb and the ram had long been worshiped by an Israelite cult of Joshua and that this cult had then invented a new messianic figure, Jesus of Nazareth. Robertson argued that a possible source for the Christian myth may have been the Talmudic story of the executed Jesus Pandera which dates to 100 BC. Robertson considered the letters of Paul the earliest surviving Christian writings, but viewed them as primarily concerned with theology and morality, rather than historical details. Robertson viewed references to the twelve apostles and the institution of the Eucharist as stories that must have developed later among gentile believers who were converted by Jewish evangelists like Paul.\n\nThe English school master George Robert Stowe Mead argued in 1903 that Jesus had existed, but that he had lived in 100 BC. Mead based his argument on the Talmud, which pointed to Jesus being crucified . In Mead's view, this would mean that the Christian gospels are mythical. Tom Harpur has compared Mead's impact on myth theory to that of Bruno Bauer and Arthur Drews.\n\nIn 1909, school teacher John Eleazer Remsburg published \"The Christ\", which made a distinction between a possible historical Jesus (Jesus of Nazareth) and the Jesus of the Gospels (Jesus of Bethlehem). Remsburg thought that there was good reason to believe that the historical Jesus existed, but that the \"Christ of Christianity\" was a mythological creation. Remsburg compiled a list of 42 names of \"writers who lived and wrote during the time, or within a century after the time\" who Remsburg felt should have written about Jesus if the Gospels account was reasonably accurate, but who did not.\nAlso in 1909, German philosophy Professor Christian Heinrich Arthur Drews wrote \"The Christ Myth\" to argue that Christianity had been a Jewish Gnostic cult that spread by appropriating aspects of Greek philosophy and life-death-rebirth deities. In his later books \"The Witnesses to the Historicity of Jesus\" (1912) and \"The Denial of the Historicity of Jesus in Past and Present\" (1926), Drews reviewed the biblical scholarship of his time as well as the work of other myth theorists, attempting to show that everything reported about the historical Jesus had a mythical character.\n\nDrews' work found fertile soil in the Soviet Union, where Marxist–Leninist atheism was the official doctrine of the state. Soviet leader Lenin argued that it was imperative in the struggle against religious obscurantists to form a union with people like Drews. Several editions of Drews' \"The Christ Myth\" were published in the Soviet Union from the early 1920s onwards and his arguments were included in school and university textbooks. Public meetings asking \"Did Christ live?\" were organized, during which party operatives debated with clergymen.\n\nIn 1927, British philosopher Bertrand Russell stated in his lecture \"Why I Am Not a Christian\" that \"historically it is quite doubtful that Jesus existed, and if he did we do not know anything about him, so that I am not concerned with the historical question, which is a very difficult one\", though Russell did nothing to further develop the idea.\n\nChurch of Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard was convinced that Jesus never existed, stating that Christianity evolved from the \"R6 Implant\": \"The man on the cross. There was no Christ! The Roman Catholic Church, through watching the dramatizations of people picked up some little fragments of R6\".\n\nThe French philosopher Paul-Louis Couchoud, published in the 1920s and 1930s, but was a predecessor for contemporary mythicists. According to Couchoud, Christianity started not with a biography of Jesus but \"a collective mystical experience, sustaining a divine history mystically revealed.\" Couchaud's Jesus is not a \"myth\", but a \"religious conception\".\n\nRobert Price mentions Couchoud's comment on the Christ Hymn, one of the relics of the Christ cults to which Paul converted. Couchoud noted that in this hymn the name Jesus was given to the Christ after his torturous death, implying that there cannot have been a ministry by a teacher called Jesus.\n\nGeorge Albert Wells (1926–2017), a professor of German, revived the interest in the Christ myth theory. In his early work, including \"Did Jesus Exist?\" (1975), Wells argued that because the Gospels were written decades after Jesus's death by Christians who were theologically motivated but had no personal knowledge of him, a rational person should believe the gospels only if they are independently confirmed. Wells was featured in the controversial UK television programme series, \"\" (Channel 4: 1984), which caused a furore, being Channel 4's first major religious programme commission.\n\nAtheist philosopher and scholar Michael Martin supported his thesis, claiming: \"Jesus is not placed in a historical context and the biographical details of his life are left unsuspecte [...] a strong prima facie case challenging the historicity of Jesus can be constructed\". Martin adds in his book \"The Case Against Christianity\" that \"Well's argument against the historicity [of Jesus] is sound\".\n\nLater, Wells concluded that a historical Jesus figure did exist and was a Galilean preacher, whose teachings were preserved in the Q document, a hypothetical common source for the gospels of Matthew and Luke. However, he continued to insist that Biblical Jesus did not exist and argued that stories such as the virgin birth, the crucifixion around A.D. 30 under Pilate and the resurrection should be regarded as legendary. Biblical scholar Robert E. Van Voorst said that with this argument Wells had performed an about-face. However, other scholars continue to note Wells as a mythicist.\n\nIn his 2009 book \"Cutting Jesus Down to Size\", Wells clarified that he believes the Gospels represent the fusion of two originally independent streams: a Galilean preaching tradition and the supernatural personage of Paul's early epistles, but he says that both figures owe much of their substance to ideas from the Jewish wisdom literature.\n\nIn 2000 Van Voorst gave an overview of proponents of the \"Nonexistence Hypothesis\" and their arguments, and eight arguments against this hypothesis as put forward by Wells and his predecessors:\n\nAccording to Graham Stanton, writing in 2002, Wells advanced the most sophisticated version of the Christ myth theory, noting that \"[t]his intriguing theory rests on several pillars, each of which is shaky.\" According to Maurice Casey, Wells' work repeated the main points of the \"Religionsgeschichtliche Schule\", which are deemed outdated by mainstream scholarship. His works were not discussed by New Testament scholars, because it was \"not considered to be original, and all his main points were thought to have been refuted long time ago, for reasons which were very well known.\"\n\nCanadian writer Earl Doherty (born 1941) was introduced to the Christ myth theme by a lecture by Wells in the 1970s. Doherty follows the lead of Wells, but disagrees on the historicity of Jesus, arguing that \"everything in Paul points to a belief in an entirely divine Son who \"lived\" and acted in the spiritual realm, in the same mythical setting in which all the other savior deities of the day were seen to operate\". According to Doherty, Paul's Christ originated as a myth derived from middle Platonism with some influence from Jewish mysticism and belief in a historical Jesus emerged only among Christian communities in the 2nd century.\n\nPaul and other writers of the earliest existing proto-Christian documents did not believe in Jesus as a person who was incarnated on Earth in a historical setting, rather they believed in Jesus as a heavenly being who suffered his sacrificial death in the lower spheres of heaven, where he was crucified by demons and then was subsequently resurrected by God. This mythological Jesus was not based on a historical Jesus, but rather on an exegesis of the Old Testament in the context of Jewish-Hellenistic religious syncretism and what the early authors believed to be mystical visions of a risen Jesus.\n\nDoherty agrees with Bauckham that the earliest Christology was already a \"high Christology,\" that is, Jesus was an incarnation of the pre-existent Christ, but deems it \"hardly credible\" that such a belief could develop in such a short time among Jews. Therefore, Doherty concludes that Christianity started with the myth of this incarnated Christ, who was subsequently historicised.\n\nAccording to Doherty, the nucleus of this historicised Jesus of the Gospels can be found in the Jesus-movement which wrote the Q source. According to Doherty, the Q-authors may have regarded themselves as \"spokespersons for the Wisdom of God\", with Jesus being the embodiment of this Wisdom, who was added in the latest phase of the development of Q. Q then started to take the form of a \"foundation document\", in response to a concurring sect who saw John the Baptist as its founder. Eventually, Q's Jesus and Paul's Christ were combined in the Gospel of Mark by a predominantly gentile community. In time, the gospel-narrative of this embodiment of Wisdom became interpreted as the literal history of the life of Jesus.\n\nNew Testament scholar Bart Ehrman quotes Doherty from \"The Jesus Puzzle\" as maintaining that it was Paul's view that Jesus' death took place in the spiritual not the earthly realm, but according to Ehrman, not only is there \"no evidence to support Doherty's assertion of what Paul's view of Jesus was\", but there are also \"a host of reasons for calling Doherty's view into serious question.\"\n\nIn a book criticizing the Christ myth theory, New Testament scholar Maurice Casey describes Doherty as \"perhaps the most influential of all the mythicists\", but one who is unable to understand the ancient texts he uses in his arguments.\n\nAmerican New Testament scholar and former Baptist pastor Robert M. Price (born 1954) was a fellow of the Jesus Seminar, a group of writers and scholars who study the historicity of Jesus and who argue that the Christian image of Christ is a theological construct into which traces of Jesus of Nazareth have been woven. He was also a member of the Jesus Project.\n\nPrice questioned the historicity of Jesus in a series of books, including \"Deconstructing Jesus\" (2000), \"The Incredible Shrinking Son of Man\" (2003), \"Jesus Is Dead\" (2007) and \"The Christ-Myth Theory and Its Problems\" (2011), as well as in contributions to \"The Historical Jesus: Five Views\" (2009), in which he acknowledges that he stands against the majority view of scholars, but cautions against attempting to settle the issue by appeal to the majority. Price notes that \"consensus is no criterion\" for the historicity of Jesus.\n\nIn \"Deconstructing Jesus\", Price points out that \"the Jesus Christ of the New Testament is a composite figure\", out of which a broad variety of historical Jesuses can be reconstructed, any one of which may have been the real Jesus, but not all of them together. According to Price, various Jesus images flowed together at the origin of Christianity, some of them possibly based on myth, some of them possibly based on \"a historical Jesus the Nazorean\". Price admits uncertainty in this regard, writing in conclusion: \"There may have been a real figure there, but there is simply no longer any way of being sure\".\n\nAccording to Price, the accounts of Jesus are derived from Jewish writings, which show Greek influences and similarities with Pagan saviour deities. Christianity is a historicized synthesis of mainly Egyptian, Jewish, and Greek mythologies. Price maintains that there are three key points for the traditional Christ myth theory:\n\nCiting accounts that have Jesus being crucified under Alexander Jannaeus (83 BC) or in his 50s by Herod Agrippa I under the rule of Claudius (AD 41–54). Price argues that these \"varying dates are the residue of various attempts to anchor an originally mythic or legendary Jesus in more or less recent history\".\n\nThomas L. Thompson (born 1939), Professor emeritus of theology at the University of Copenhagen, is a leading biblical minimalist of the Old Testament. According to Thompson, the accounts of Jesus are derived from Jewish writings. In his 2007 book \"The Messiah Myth: The Near Eastern Roots of Jesus and David\", Thompson argues that the biblical accounts of both King David and Jesus of Nazareth are mythical in nature and based on Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Babylonian and Greek and Roman literature. For example, he argues that the resurrection of Jesus is taken directly from the story of the dying and rising god, Dionysus. However, Thompson does not draw a final conclusion on the historicity or ahistoricity of Jesus, but argued that any historical person would be very different from the Christ (or Messiah) identified in the Gospel of Mark.\n\nThompson coedited the contributions from a diverse range of scholars in the 2012 book \"Is This Not the Carpenter?: The Question of the Historicity of the Figure of Jesus\". Writing in the introduction, \"The essays collected in this volume have a modest purpose. Neither establishing the historicity of a historical Jesus nor possessing an adequate warrant for dismissing it, our purpose is to clarify our engagement with critical historical and exegetical methods.\"\n\nIn a 2012 online article, Thompson defended his qualifications to address New Testament issues and he rejected the label of \"mythicist\" and reiterated his position that the issue of Jesus' existence cannot be determined one way or the other. Thompson contends that the present state of New Testament scholarship viz. Bart Ehrman \"is such that an established scholar should present his Life of Jesus, without considering whether this figure, in fact, lived as a historical person\" and that such assumptions \"reflect a serious problem regarding the historical quality of scholarship in biblical studies\".\n\nIn 2012, the Irish Dominican priest and theologian Thomas L. Brodie (born 1943), holding a PhD from the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas in Rome and a co-founder and former director of the Dominican Biblical Institute in Limerick, published \"Beyond the Quest for the Historical Jesus: Memoir of a Discovery\". In this book, Brodie, who previously had published academic works on the Hebrew prophets, argued that the Gospels are essentially a rewriting of the stories of Elijah and Elisha when viewed as a unified account in the Books of Kings. This view lead Brodie to the conclusion that Jesus is mythical. Brodie's argument builds on his previous work, in which he stated that rather than being separate and fragmented, the stories of Elijah and Elisha are united and that 1 Kings 16:29–2 Kings 13:25 is a natural extension of 1 Kings 17–2 Kings 8 which have a coherence not generally observed by other biblical scholars. Brodie then views the Elijah–Elisha story as the underlying model for the gospel narratives.\n\nIn response to Brodie's publication of his view that Jesus was mythical, the Dominican order banned him from writing and lecturing, although he was allowed to stay on as a brother of the Irish Province, which continued to care for him. \"There is an unjustifiable jump between methodology and conclusion\" in Brodie's book—according to Gerard Norton—and \"are not soundly based on scholarship\". According to Norton, they are \"a memoir of a series of significant moments or events\" in Brodie's life that reinforced \"his core conviction\" that neither Jesus nor Paul of Tarsus were historical.\n\nAmerican independent scholar Richard Carrier (born 1969) reviewed Doherty's work on the origination of Jesus and eventually concluded that the evidence actually favored the core Doherty thesis. According to Carrier, following Couchoud and Doherty, Christianity started with the belief in a new deity called Jesus, \"a spiritual, mythical figure.\" According to Carrier, this new deity was fleshed out in the Gospels, which added a narrative framework and Cynic-like teachings, and eventually came to be perceived as a historical biography. According to Carrier, for such a person to be considered \"the historical Jesus in any pertinent sense\", such a person must comply with his definition of a minimal historical Jesus.\n\nAccording to Carrier, many studies by mainstream scholars have shown that the current consensus of a historical Jesus is based on invalid methods. Carrier also claims that historical methodologies often use fallacious reasoning and that they must be drastically revised.\n\nCarrier argues in his book \"On the Historicity of Jesus: Why We Might Have Reason for Doubt\" that there is insufficient Bayesian probability, that is evidence, to believe in the existence of Jesus. Furthermore, Carrier argues that the Jesus figure was probably originally known only through private revelations and hidden messages in scripture which were then crafted into a historical figure to communicate the claims of the gospels allegorically. These allegories then started to be believed as fact during the struggle for control of the Christian churches of the first century. He argues that the probability of Jesus' existence is somewhere in the range from 1/3 to 1/12000 depending on the estimates used for the computation.\n\nHis methodology was reviewed by Aviezer Tucker, a prior advocate of using Bayesian techniques in history. Tucker expressed some sympathy for Carrier's view of the Gospels, stating: \"The problem with the Synoptic Gospels as evidence for a historical Jesus from a Bayesian perspective is that the evidence that coheres does not seem to be independent, whereas the evidence that is independent does not seem to cohere\". However, Tucker argued that historians have been able to use theories about the transmission and preservation of information to identify reliable parts of the Gospels. He said that \"Carrier is too dismissive of such methods because he is focused on hypotheses about the historical Jesus rather than on the best explanations of the evidence\".\n\nIn the peer-reviewed scholarly Journal for the Study of the Historical Jesus Daniel N. Gullotta, reviewing Carrier's \"On the Historicity of Jesus: Why We Might Have Reason for Doubt\", says he finds Carrier's arguments \"problematic and unpersuasive\", his use of Bayesian probabilities \"unnecessarily complex\" and criticizes Carrier's \"lack of evidence, strained readings and troublesome assumptions.\" Gullotta also states that there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever, either documentary or archaeological, that there was a period when Christians believed that Jesus only existed in heaven rather than living as a human being on earth, which is Carrier's \"foundational\" thesis.\n\nIn his books \"The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross\" (1970) and \"The Dead Sea Scrolls and the Christian Myth\" (1979), the British archaeologist and philologist John M. Allegro advanced the theory that stories of early Christianity originated in a shamanistic Essene clandestine cult centered around the use of hallucinogenic mushrooms. He also argued that the story of Jesus was based on the crucifixion of the Teacher of Righteousness in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Allegro's theory was criticised sharply by Welsh historian Philip Jenkins, who wrote that Allegro relied on texts that did not exist in quite the form he was citing them. Based on this and many other negative reactions to the book, Allegro's publisher later apologized for issuing the book and Allegro was forced to resign his academic post.\n\nUsing a reverse-translation mechanism, Bernard Dubourg's two-volume work in French on the New Testament (1987/1989) argued that the Greek text was originally composed in Hebrew instead of Greek, according to the traditional procedures of midrash. Following Paul Vulliaud, Dubourg emphasized the importance of gematria in showing the coherence of his back-translated text. He concludes that Paul is as mythical as Jesus.\n\nAlvar Ellegård, in \"The Myth of Jesus\" (1992), and \"Jesus: One Hundred Years Before Christ. A Study in Creative Mythology\" (1999), argued that Jesus lived 100 years before the accepted dates, and was a teacher of the Essenes. According to Ellegård, Paul was connected with the Essenes, and had a vision of this Jesus.\n\nTimothy Freke and Peter Gandy, in their 1999 publication \"The Jesus Mysteries: Was the \"Original Jesus\" a Pagan God?\" propose that Jesus did not literally exist as an historically identifiable individual, but was instead a syncretic re-interpretation of the fundamental pagan \"godman\" by the Gnostics, who were the original sect of Christianity. The book has been negatively received by scholars, and also by Christ mythicists.\nInfluenced by Massey and Higgins, Alvin Boyd Kuhn (1880–1963) argued an Egyptian etymology to the Bible that the gospels were symbolic rather than historic and that church leaders started to misinterpret the New Testament in the third century. Author and ordained priest Tom Harpur dedicated his 2004 book \"The Pagan Christ\" to Kuhn, suggesting that Kuhn has not received the attention he deserves since many of his works were self-published. Building on Kuhn's work, Harpur listed similarities among the stories of Jesus, Horus, Mithras, Buddha and others. According to Harpur, in the second or third centuries the early church created the fictional impression of a literal and historic Jesus and then used forgery and violence to cover up the evidence. Harpur's book received a great deal of criticism, including a response book, \"Unmasking the Pagan Christ: An Evangelical Response to the Cosmic Christ Idea\". Fellow mythicist Robert M. Price also wrote a negative review, saying that he did not agree that the Egyptian parallels were as forceful as Harpur thought. In 2007, Harpur published a sequel, \"Water Into Wine\".\n\nDavid Fitzgerald has self-published several works in defense of the Christ myth theory, including \"Nailed: 10 Christian Myths That Show Jesus Never Existed At All\" (2010), and \"Jesus: Mything in Action\", Vols. I–III (2017).\n\nIn his 2017 book \"Décadence\", French writer and philosopher Michel Onfray argued for the Christ myth theory and based his hypothesis on the fact that—other than in the New Testament—Jesus is barely mentioned in accounts of the period.\n\nThe Christ myth theory enjoyed brief popularity in the Soviet Union, where it was supported by Sergey Kovalev, Alexander Kazhdan, Abram Ranovich, Nikolai Rumyantsev and Robert Vipper. However, several scholars, including Kazhdan, later retracted their views about mythical Jesus and by the end of the 1980s Iosif Kryvelev remained as virtually the only proponent of Christ myth theory in Soviet academia.\n\nIn a 2015 poll conducted by the Church of England, 40% of respondents indicated that they did not believe Jesus was a real person.\n\nEhrman notes that \"the mythicists have become loud, and thanks to the Internet they've attracted more attention\". Within a few years of the inception of the World Wide Web (c. 1990), mythicists such as Earl Doherty began to present their argument to a larger public via the internet. Doherty created the website \"The Jesus Puzzle\" in 1996, while the organization Internet Infidels has featured the works of mythicists on their website and mythicism has been mentioned on several popular news sites.\n\nAccording to Derek Murphy, the documentaries \"The God Who Wasn't There\" (2005) and \"\" (2007) raised interest for the Christ myth theory with a larger audience and gave the topic a large coverage on the Internet. Daniel Gullotta notes the relationship between the organization \"Atheists United\" and Carrier's work related to Mythicism, which has increased \"the attention of the public\".\n\nAccording to Ehrman, mythicism has a growing appeal \"because these deniers of Jesus are at the same time denouncers of religion\". According to Casey, mythicism has a growing appeal because of an aversion toward Christian fundamentalism among American atheists.\n\nIn modern scholarship, the Christ myth theory is a fringe theory and finds virtually no support from scholars.\n\nAccording to New Testament scholar Bart D. Ehrman, most people who study the historical period of Jesus believe that he did exist and do not write in support of the Christ myth theory.\n\nMaurice Casey, theologian and scholar of New Testament and early Christianity, stated that the belief among professors that Jesus existed is generally completely certain. According to Casey, the view that Jesus did not exist is \"the view of extremists\", \"demonstrably false\" and \"professional scholars generally regard it as having been settled in serious scholarship long ago\".\n\nIn his 1977 book \"Jesus: An Historian's Review of the Gospels\", classical historian and popular author Michael Grant concluded that \"modern critical methods fail to support the Christ-myth theory\". In support of this, Grant quoted Roderic Dunkerley's 1957 opinion that the Christ myth theory has \"again and again been answered and annihilated by first-rank scholars\". At the same time, he also quoted Otto Betz's 1968 opinion that in recent years \"no serious scholar has ventured to postulate the non-historicity of Jesus—or at any rate very few, and they have not succeeded in disposing of the much stronger, indeed very abundant, evidence to the contrary\". In the same book, he also wrote: \n\nGraeme Clarke, Emeritus Professor of Classical Ancient History and Archaeology at Australian National University has stated: \"Frankly, I know of no ancient historian or biblical historian who would have a twinge of doubt about the existence of a Jesus Christ—the documentary evidence is simply overwhelming\".\n\nR. Joseph Hoffmann, who had created the Jesus Project, which included both mythicists and historicists to investigate the historicity of Jesus, wrote that an adherent to the Christ myth theory asked to set up a separate section of the project for those committed to the theory. Hoffmann felt that to be committed to mythicism signaled a lack of necessary skepticism and he noted that most members of the project did not reach the mythicist conclusion.\n\nCritics of the Christ myth theory question the competence of its supporters. According to Ehrman: \n\nIn a response, Thompson questioned the polemical nature of this qualification, pointing at his own academic standing and expertise. According to Thompson, Ehrman \"has attributed to my book arguments and principles which I had never presented, certainly not that Jesus had never existed\". Thompson questions Ehrman's qualifications in regard to Old Testamentical writings and research, as well as his competence to recognize the problems involved in \"reiterated narrative\" and \"the historicity of a literary figure\", stating that Ehrman had \"thoroughly [...] misunderstood [...] the very issue of the historicity of the New Testament figure of Jesus\".\n\nMaurice Casey has criticized the mythicists, pointing out their complete ignorance of how modern critical scholarship actually works. He also criticizes mythicists for their frequent assumption that all modern scholars of religion are Protestant fundamentalists of the American variety, insisting that this assumption is not only totally inaccurate, but also exemplary of the mythicists' misconceptions about the ideas and attitudes of mainstream scholars.\n\nQuestioning the mainstream view appears to have consequences for one's job perspectives. According to Casey, Thompson's early work, which \"successfully refuted the attempts of Albright and others to defend the historicity of the most ancient parts of biblical literature history\", has \"negatively affected his future job prospects\". Ehrman also notes that mythicist views would prevent one from getting employment in a religious studies department: \n\nFew scholars have bothered to criticise Christ myth theories. Robert Van Voorst has written \"Contemporary New Testament scholars have typically viewed (Christ myth) arguments as so weak or bizarre that they relegate them to footnotes, or often ignore them completely...The theory of Jesus' nonexistence is now effectively dead as a scholarly question.\" Paul L. Maier, former Professor of Ancient History at Western Michigan University and current professor emeritus in the Department of History there has stated \"Anyone who uses the argument that Jesus never existed is simply flaunting his ignorance.\" Among notable scholars who have directly addressed the Christ myth are Bart Ehrman, Maurice Casey and Philip Jenkins.\n\nIn this book, Bart Ehrman surveys the arguments \"mythicists\" have made against the existence of Jesus since the idea was first mooted at the end of the 18th century. To the objection that there are no contemporary Roman records of Jesus' existence, Ehrman points out that such records exist for almost no one and there are mentions of Christ in several Roman works of history from only decades after the death of Jesus. The author states that the authentic letters of the apostle Paul in the New Testament were likely written within a few years of Jesus' death and that Paul likely personally knew James, the brother of Jesus. Although the gospel accounts of Jesus' life may be biased and unreliable in many respects, Ehrman writes, they and the sources behind them which scholars have discerned still contain some accurate historical information. So many independent attestations of Jesus' existence, Ehrman says, are actually \"astounding for an ancient figure of any kind\". Ehrman dismisses the idea that the story of Jesus is an invention based on pagan myths of dying-and-rising gods, maintaining that the early Christians were primarily influenced by Jewish ideas, not Greek or Roman ones, and repeatedly insisting that the idea that there was never such a person as Jesus is not seriously considered by historians or experts in the field at all.\n\nIn \"Jesus: Evidence and Argument or Mythicist Myths?\" (2014), scholar of New Testament and early Christianity Maurice Casey treats the historical method, the reliability of the Gospels, the argument from silence from both the Gospels and the Pauline epistles, and the similarities with other religions of the time. According to Casey, many mythicists seem to object to fundamentalist perceptions of Christianity, while ignoring or being ignorant of liberal forms of Christianity.\n\nPhilip Jenkins, Distinguished Professor of History at Baylor University, has written \"What you can’t do, though, without venturing into the far swamps of extreme crankery, is to argue that Jesus never existed. The “Christ-Myth Hypothesis” is not scholarship, and is not taken seriously in respectable academic debate. The grounds advanced for the “hypothesis” are worthless. The authors proposing such opinions might be competent, decent, honest individuals, but the views they present are demonstrably wrong...Jesus is better documented and recorded than pretty much any non-elite figure of antiquity.\"\n\nAlexander Lucie-Smith, Catholic priest and doctor of moral theology, states that \"People who think Jesus didn’t exist are seriously confused,\" but also notes that \"the Church needs to reflect on its failure. If 40 per cent believe in the Jesus myth, this is a sign that the Church has failed to communicate with the general public.\"\n\nStanley E. Porter, president and dean of McMaster Divinity College in Hamilton, and Stephen J. Bedard, a Baptist minister and graduate of McMaster Divinity, respond to Harpur's ideas from an evangelical standpoint in \"Unmasking the Pagan Christ: An Evangelical Response to the Cosmic Christ Idea\", challenging the key ideas lying at the foundation of Harpur's thesis. Porter and Bedard conclude that there is sufficient evidence for the historicity of Jesus and assert that Harpur is motivated to promote \"universalistic spirituality\".\n\nSince 2005, several English-language documentaries have focused—at least in part—on the Christ myth theory:\n\nThe named notes after this sentence contain named references; to prevent errors, they are stored here before the notes-reflist.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2404475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2404475", "title": "Clive Coates", "text": "Clive Coates\n\nClive Coates is a British wine writer and Master of Wine, best known for his books about the wines of Burgundy.\n\nBorn in 1941, Clive Coates worked for The Wine Society in Stevenage in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In 1975 he founded the award-winning magazine \"The Vine\", a monthly fine wine journal that ran for 241 issues until ill-health in 2005 forced him to stop. He also wrote a number of classic books about the classic wine regions of France in this time. Despite describing himself as semi retired, he published his latest book, \"The Wines of Burgundy\" in March 2008.\n\nHe lives in Saint-Bonnet-de-Vieille-Vigne, between the Côte Chalonnaise and the Mâconnais.\n\nHe is best known for \"Côte d'Or: A Celebration of the Great Wines of Burgundy\", a survey of the most famous wine producing region of Burgundy covering more than 1000 pages, published in 1997. It includes technical information about the vineyards of the Côte-d'Or, details about wine making techniques employed by hundreds of different producers and wine ratings of thousands of wines. The new book from 2008 is effectively a revision of this one, but expanded to include all major wine districts of Burgundy, and without the in-depth profile of a selected number of producers in the 1997 book.\n\nOther recent books include \"The Wines of Bordeaux\" (2004) and \"The Great Wines of France\" (2005).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20632189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632189", "title": "Count Franz Philipp von Lamberg", "text": "Count Franz Philipp von Lamberg\n\nCount Franz Philipp von Lamberg (, November 30, 1791 - September 28, 1848) Austrian soldier and statesman, was born in Mór \"(Moor),\" Hungary. He held the military rank of \"Feldmarschallleutnant\".\n\nHe entered the third Uhlan regiment in 1810. He served in the War of the Sixth Coalition (1813–1814). In 1834 he was promoted to the rank of major. After 32 years of military service, in 1842 he was assigned the rank of \"Feldmarschallleutnant\".\n\nIn 1848, the circumstance that, as a member of the upper eschelons of the Hungarian nobility, he had been entrusted with Hungarian relations with Austria brought him the difficult, but also distinguished, assignment as imperial commissioner charged with bringing about a peaceful adjustment between the emperor and the people. But before his arrival in Pest, Kossuth had incited the legislature to forbid his taking office as palatine of Hungary, and the army was instructed not to obey him. His assignment was without ministerial countersign. After his arrival in Pest, and a short and fruitless discussion with General Hrabowsky, he took a cab to a fortification. While crossing the Danube on the pontoon bridge, a mob which had been advised of his arrival fell upon the cab, murdered Lamberg, mutilated the body, and triumphantly carried it, impaled on scythes, to the disabled soldiers' home.\n\nLamberg's death marked a turning point in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, as the Imperial Court in Vienna decided to dissolve the Hungarian Parliament and send in the troops of Josip Jelačić into Hungary.\n\nWith Countess Caroline Hoyos, he had at least two children:\n\n"}
{"id": "2627994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2627994", "title": "Echo Music Prize", "text": "Echo Music Prize\n\nEcho (stylised as ECHO, ) was an accolade by the , an association of recording companies of Germany to recognize outstanding achievement in the music industry. The first ECHO Awards ceremony was held in 1992, and it was set up to honor musical accomplishments by performers for the year 1991, succeeding the Deutscher Schallplattenpreis, which was awarded since 1963. Each year's winner was determined by the previous year's sales. In April 2018, following controversy regarding that year's ceremony, the Bundesverband Musikindustrie announced the end of the award.\n\nFirst held with 370 people in the Flora, Cologne in 1992, the award ceremony in Frankfurt was televised and the classical awards were moved to a separate event, Echo Klassik, in Cologne in 1994. Until 1995, only invited guests could attend the ceremony. It was held in Munich, and in 2001, the venue was moved from Hamburg to Berlin because of subsidies of up to 20 million euros, although a return in 2004 was considered. In 2009, the venue in Berlin was moved to O2 World.\n\nThe trophy was designed by Oliver Renelt when he was a student at the Hochschule für bildende Künste Hamburg. It is stainless steel, and is tall and weighs . It depicts half a disc with notes flowing into it from a globe, and the design was the winner of a competition held for that purpose.\n\nThe Echo Award was heavily criticized worldwide when Farid Bang and Kollegah received the award for best hip hop/urban album in April 2018. The nominated album, \"Jung, Brutal, Gutaussehend 3\" (English: \"Young, brutal, handsome 3\"), contains the track \"0815\", in which the artists refer to their muscles as being more defined than those of Auschwitz inmates. The duo was even allowed to perform this track during the ceremony, despite heavy protests weeks before the award show. \n\nCampino, singer of German punk band Die Toten Hosen, was the first one to criticize the committee's decision during the ceremony. His remarks received a standing ovation from the audience. Several artists later returned their Echo awards in protest, such as Marius Müller-Westernhagen, who returned all of his seven Echo awards received over the years. Other artists returning their awards were German conductors Christian Thielemann and Enoch zu Guttenberg, Russian-German pianist Igor Levit, record producer Klaus Voormann, and the Notos Quartett.\n\nHowever, criticism did not only come from artists and the German press. Several businesses joined in, with Tom Enders, CEO of Airbus, being one of the most recent high-profile commentators, saying that this would hurt \"Germany’s international reputation\". He also asked if \"antisemitism [was] becoming acceptable in Germany\" again. \n\nAs a consequence, the Echo Award was discontinued.\n\nThe Kastelruther Spatzen have won 13 Echo Awards in the category Volksmusik which is more than any other artist; the awards were in 1993, 1996–2003, 2006–2010.\n\nSelected pop categories\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFollowing its first edition as a separate event in Cologne in 1994, the ECHO KLASSIK has been held in the Semperoper in Dresden in 1996 and 2009, in Dortmund in 2003, in Gasteig in Munich from 2004 to 2008 and in 2014. In 2010 it was held in Essen. From 2011 until 2016 the award show was held in Berlin's Konzerthaus - only shortly intermitted in 2014. In 2017, the ECHO KLASSIK took place in Hamburg's newly opened Elbphilharmonie.\n\nSince 2010, the ECHO JAZZ awards have been given in thirty categories, including ensemble of the year, male and female singer of the year, record label, and lifetime achievement. In 2012 the criteria for entry included album release date and \"two outstanding reviews from music journalists.\" Conductor Claus Ogermann was given the ECHO Jazz Lifetime Achievement Award in 2012. Awards are decided by a twelve-member jury based on critical and commercial appeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "57511881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57511881", "title": "Eugenia (Lady of Quality)", "text": "Eugenia (Lady of Quality)\n\nEugenia was the pseudonym used by an unknown English pamphleteer of the early 18th century, who wrote a work entitled \"The Female Advocate: Or, a plea for the just liberty of the tender sex, and particularly of married women. Being reflections on a late rude and disingenuous discourse, delivered by Mr. John Sprint, in a sermon at a wedding... at Sherburn... By a Lady of Quality\" (London, 1700).\n\n\"The Female Advocate\" (another edition is entitled \"The Female Preacher\") was a powerful protofeminist riposte to a sermon by Rev. John Sprint entitled \"The Bride-Woman's Counsellor\" (1699). Sprint, who may have been a descendant of the more famous theologian John Sprint (died 1623), had preached the offending sermon at a wedding at Sherborne, Dorset on 11 May 1699.\n\n\"The Female Advocate\" was addressed to \"To the Honourable The Lady W—ley\" and published in 1700 by the same firm that had issued \"The Bride-Woman's Counsellor\" itself. She signed herself, \"Your Ladiship's most obliged and most humble Servant, Eugenia.\"\n\nSome commentators at the time of the publication thought that Eugenia was male. Some readers of Mary Chudleigh, meanwhile, were ascribing the work to her. This seems unlikely, as the Eugenia of \"The Female Advocate\" takes a sharp-edged prose approach unlike the lightheartedness of Chudleigh's own. Furthermore, Chudleigh's \"Poems\" (1703) include praise for Eugenia's \"ingenious Pen\".\n\nEugenia declares at the outset of her work, \"If you inquire who I am, I shall only tell you in general, that I am one that never yet came within the Clutches of a Husband; and therefore what I write may be the more favourably interpreted as not coming from a Party concern'd.\" She knows some Latin and Greek, and knows the world a little. She states that not even in Italy and Spain do men demand of their wives \"a Slavery so abject as this [Sprint] would fain persuade us to.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10582671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10582671", "title": "Fruity Metcalfe", "text": "Fruity Metcalfe\n\nEdward Dudley Metcalfe MVO MC (16 January 1887 – 18 November 1957), known as Fruity Metcalfe, was an officer in the Indian Army and a close friend and equerry of the Prince of Wales, later King Edward VIII and Duke of Windsor.\n\nMetcalfe was born on 16 January 1887. He was educated privately and at Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nHe was commissioned on to the Unattached list for Auxiliary Forces (University Candidate) on 27 May 1907. He transferred to the Unattached List, Indian Army on 15 August 1908 but to have seniority from 17 August 1907. He spent a year attached to the 1st battalion Connaught Rangers in India from 8 November 1908 until, on 8 November 1909, being accepted into the Indian Army and joining 3rd Skinner's Horse. He was promoted lieutenant on 17 November 1909.\n\nHe attended the 1911 Delhi Durbar with his regiment, and in 1912 attended the Cavalry School at Saugor. On 12 August 1914 he was appointed Adjutant of the Governor's Body Guard, Bombay. He did not hold this position for long as his regiment was mobilised and went to France late in 1914. He was promoted temporary captain 1 September 1915. He served there before being sent back to India in June 1916, from where he volunteered to served with the 7th Meerut Cavalry headquarters which went to Mesopotamia. He was promoted captain 17 August 1916; however this was later antedated to 1 September 1915.\n\nHe was mentioned in dispatches, reported in the \"London Gazette\" on 15 August 1917, and ten days later come notice that he had been awarded the Military Cross for distinguished service in Mesopotamia.\nIn 1918 Metcalfe was attached to the Signal Service, where he remained until January 1920, when he was attached to the 27th Light Cavalry. By early 1921 he was back serving with the 3rd Skinner's Horse.\n\nBy July 1921, he was serving with the Indian State Forces of Indore. Metcalfe first met the future Edward VIII when, as Prince of Wales, he was touring India in 1922. Edward was impressed with Metcalfe's knowledge of horses and made him a member of his personal staff, appointing him an aide de camp and subsequently accompanying the prince on his tour of Japan.\n\nIn July 1922, in the wake of the prince's tour, he was appointed a Member of the Royal Victorian Order, 4th class, and in August 1922 was appointed as temporary equerry to the Prince of Wales. Metcalfe was provisionally promoted to the rank of major on 17 August 1922.\n\nHe was appointed an Extra Aide de camp to His Excellency the Commander-in-Chief in India on 4 September 1926 and retired from the Indian Army on 6 September 1927.\n\nAfter the king abdicated on 11 December 1936 and became the Duke of Windsor, Metcalfe was best man at his wedding in France to Wallis Simpson on 3 June 1937. He was his equerry from 1939 in Paris and Antibes until the German invasion of France in 1940 prompted the Windsors' evacuation and the Duke's appointment to govern the Bahamas.\n\nOn 10 August 1940, Metcalfe was commissioned as a pilot officer into the Administrative and Special Duties Branch of the Royal Air Force. He was promoted to flying officer on 10 August 1941. He was posted to Cairo in November 1941, returning to Britain at the end of September 1942, but resigned his commission on 17 November 1942.\n\nWith his wife he attended meetings of the Oswald Mosley organization the January Club and in May 1934 a dinner at London's Savoy Hotel of the British Fascist Blackshirts, of which he was a member.\n\nIn 1925, Metcalfe married Alexandra Naldera Curzon (\"Baba\"\") (1904–1995), 18 years younger than him, and the third daughter of George Curzon, 1st Marquess Curzon of Kedleston and Viceroy of India, and Lord Curzon's first wife, the American mercantile heiress Mary Victoria Leiter.\n\nThey had a son, David Metcalfe, and twin daughters Davina and Linda. They divorced in 1955.\n\nMetcalfe lived at South Hartfield House, Coleman's Hatch, in the Ashdown Forest, Sussex, about 40 miles south of London.\n"}
{"id": "32861252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32861252", "title": "Gary Hooper (Paralympian)", "text": "Gary Hooper (Paralympian)\n\nGary Leslie Hooper, MBE (born 11 February 1939) is an Australian Paralympic competitor. He won seven medals at three Paralympics from 1960 to 1968.\n\nHooper was born on 11 February 1939 in Sydney. He never knew his biological father, and lived with his stepfather. He contracted polio at the age of eleven, and lost the use of both his legs.\n\nHe worked as a bookkeeper, and later as a public speaker and accessibility consultant. He was a judge in fencing at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. He has been married to Janice since 1964, and they have two sons.\n\nAt the 1960 Rome Games, Hooper won a silver medal in the Men's Precision Javelin B event. At the 1964 Tokyo Games, he won a gold medal in the Men's Wheelchair Dash above T10 event and two silver medals in the Men's Wheelchair Relay above T10 and Men's Lightweight weightlifting events; he also competed in swimming and wheelchair fencing at the games. At the 1968 Tel Aviv Games, he won a gold medal in the Men's 100 m Wheelchair A event and two silver medals in the Men's 4x40 m Relay open and Men's Shot Put B events; he also competed in swimming, weightlifting, and wheelchair fencing at the games. He participated in the 1962, 1966, and 1970 Commonwealth Paraplegic Games in Perth, Jamaica, and Edinburgh, respectively.\n\nHooper became a Member of the Order of the British Empire in 1969 \"for achievements at the Paraplegic Olympics\".\n"}
{"id": "217515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=217515", "title": "George Psalmanazar", "text": "George Psalmanazar\n\nGeorge Psalmanazar (c. 1679 – 3 May 1763) was a Frenchman who claimed to be the first native of Formosa (today Taiwan) to visit Europe. For some years he convinced many in Britain, but he was later revealed to be an impostor and proved fake. He subsequently became a theological essayist, and a friend and acquaintance of Samuel Johnson and other noted figures in 18th-century literary London.\n\nAlthough Psalmanazar intentionally obscured many details of his early life, it is believed that he was born in southern France, perhaps in Languedoc or Provence, to Catholic parents, some time between 1679 and 1684. His birth name is unknown. According to his posthumously published autobiography, he was educated in a Franciscan school and then a Jesuit academy. In both these institutions he claimed to have been celebrated by his teachers for what he called \"my uncommon genius for languages\". Indeed, by his own account Psalmanazar was something of a child prodigy. He claims that he attained fluency in Latin by the age of seven or eight, and excelled in competition with children twice his age. Later encounters with a sophistic philosophy tutor made him disenchanted with academicism, however, and he discontinued his education around the time he was fifteen or sixteen.\n\nIn order to travel safely and affordably in France Psalmanazar decided to pretend to be an Irish pilgrim on his way to Rome. After learning English, forging a passport, and stealing a pilgrim's cloak and staff from the reliquary of a local church he set off, but he soon found that many people he met were familiar with Ireland and were able to discern that he was a fraud.\nDeciding that a more exotic disguise was needed, Psalmanazar drew upon the missionary reports about East Asia that he had heard of from his Jesuit tutors and decided to impersonate a Japanese convert. At some point he further embellished this new persona by pretending to be a \"Japanese \" and exhibiting an array of appropriately bizarre customs, such as eating raw meat spiced with cardamom and sleeping while sitting upright in a chair.\n\nHaving failed to reach Rome, Psalmanazar travelled through various German principalities between 1700 and 1702. In the latter year he appeared in the Netherlands, where he served as an occasional mercenary and soldier. By this time he had shifted his supposed homeland from Japan to the even more remote Formosa (Taiwan), and had developed more elaborate customs, such as following a foreign calendar, worshipping the Sun and the Moon with complex propitiatory rites of his own invention, and even speaking an invented language.\n\nIn late 1702 Psalmanazar met the Scottish priest Alexander Innes, who was the chaplain of a Scottish army unit. Afterwards Innes claimed that he had converted the heathen to Christianity and christened him George Psalmanazar (in reference to the biblical Assyrian king Shalmaneser). In 1703 they left via Rotterdam for London, where they planned to meet Anglican clergymen.\n\nWhen they reached London news of the exotic foreigner with bizarre habits spread quickly and Psalmanazar achieved a high level of fame. His appeal not only derived from his exotic ways, which tapped into a growing domestic interest in travel narratives describing faraway locales, but also played upon the prevailing anti-Catholic and anti-Jesuit religious sentiment of early 18th century Britain. Central to his narrative was his claim to have been abducted from Formosa by malevolent Jesuits and taken to France, where he had steadfastly refused to become a Catholic. Psalmanazar declared himself to be a reformed heathen who now practised Anglicanism. He became a favourite of the Bishop of London and other esteemed members of London society.\n\nBuilding upon this growing interest in his life, in 1704 Psalmanazar published a book, \"An Historical and Geographical Description of Formosa, an Island subject to the Emperor of Japan\", which purported to be a detailed description of Formosan customs, geography and political economy, but which was in fact a complete invention. The \"facts\" contained in the book are an amalgam of other travel reports, especially influenced by accounts of the Aztec and Inca civilisations in the New World, and by embellished descriptions of Japan. Thomas More's \"Utopia\" may also have served as an inspiration. Some of his claims about Japanese religion seem to also be derived from a misinterpretation of the Chinese idea of three teachings, as he claims that there were three different forms of \"idolatry\" practiced in Japan.\n\nAccording to Psalmanazar, Formosa was a prosperous country with a capital city called Xternetsa. Men walked naked except for a gold or silver plate to cover their genitals. Their main food was a serpent that they hunted with branches. Formosans were polygamous and husbands had a right to eat their wives for infidelity. They executed murderers by hanging them upside down and shooting them full of arrows. Every year they sacrificed the hearts of 18,000 young boys to gods, and their priests ate the bodies. They used horses and camels for transport, and dwelled underground in circular houses.\n\nPsalmanazar's book also described the Formosan language, an early example of a constructed language. His efforts in this regard were so convincing that German grammarians included samples of his so-called \"Formosan alphabet\" in books about language well into the 19th century, even after his larger imposture had been exposed. Here is his \"translation\" of the Lord's Prayer:\nAmy Pornio dan chin Ornio vicy, Gnayjorhe\nsai Lory, Eyfodere sai Bagalin, jorhe sai domion\napo chin Ornio, kay chin Badi eyen, Amy khatsada\nnadakchion toye ant nadayi, kay Radonaye ant\namy Sochin, apo ant radonern amy Sochiakhin,\nbagne ant kau chin malaboski, ali abinaye ant tuen\nBroskacy, kens sai vie Bagalin, kay Fary, kay\nBarhaniaan chinania sendabey. Amien.\nPsalmanazar's book was an unqualified success. It went through two English editions, and French and German editions followed. After its publication Psalmanazar was invited to lecture on Formosan culture and language before several learned societies, and it was even proposed that he be summoned to lecture at the University of Oxford. In the most famous of these engagements he spoke before the Royal Society, where he was challenged by Edmond Halley.\n\nPsalmanazar was frequently challenged by skeptics, but for the most part he managed to deflect criticism of his core claims. He explained, for instance, that his pale skin was due to the fact that the upper classes of Formosa lived underground. Jesuits who had actually worked as missionaries in Formosa were not believed, probably because of anti-Jesuit prejudice.\n\nInnes eventually went to Portugal as chaplain general to the British forces. By then, however, he had developed an opium addiction and had become involved in several misguided business ventures, including a failed effort to market decorated fans purported to be from Formosa. Psalmanazar's claims became increasingly less credible as time went on and knowledge of Formosa from other sources began to contradict his claims. His energetic defence of his imposture began to slacken and in 1706 he confessed, first to friends and then to the general public. By then London society had largely grown tired of the \"Formosan craze\".\n\nIn the following years Psalmanazar worked for a time as a clerk in an army regiment until some clergymen gave him money to study theology. Psalmanazar then participated in the literary milieu of Grub Street, writing pamphlets, editing books and undertaking other low-paid and unglamorous tasks. He learned Hebrew, co-authored Samuel Palmer's \"A General History of Printing\" (1732), and contributed a number of articles to the \"Universal History\". He even contributed to \"A Complete System of Geography\" and wrote about the real conditions in Formosa, pointedly criticising the hoax he himself had perpetrated. He appears to have become increasingly religious and disowned his youthful impostures. This newfound religiosity culminated in his anonymous publication of a book of theological essays in 1753.\n\nAlthough this last phase of Psalmanazar's life brought him far less fame than his earlier career as a fraud, it resulted in some remarkable historical coincidences. Perhaps the most famous of these is the elderly Psalmanazar's unlikely friendship with the young Samuel Johnson, who was also a Grub Street hack. In later years Johnson recalled that Psalmanazar had been well-known in his neighbourhood as an eccentric but saintly figure, \"whereof he was so well known and esteemed, that scarce any person, even children, passed him without showing him signs of respect\".\n\nPsalmanazar also interacted with a number of other important English literary figures of his age. In the early months of 1741 he appears to have sent the novelist Samuel Richardson an unsolicited bundle of forty handwritten pages in which he attempted to continue the plotline of Richardson’s immensely popular epistolary novel \"Pamela\". Richardson called Psalmanazar's attempted sequel \"ridiculous and improbable\". In \"A Modest Proposal\" Jonathan Swift ridicules Psalmanazar in passing, sardonically citing \"the famous Salamanaazor, a Native of the island of Formosa, who came from thence to London, above twenty Years ago,\" as an eminent proponent of cannibalism. A novel by Tobias Smollett refers mockingly to \"Psalmanazar, who, after having drudged half a century in the literary mill in all the simplicity and abstinence of an Asiatic, subsists on the charity of a few booksellers, just sufficient to keep him from the parish\".\n\nIn old age Psalmanazar lived on an annual pension of 30 pounds, paid by an admirer. In his last years he wrote his \"Memoirs of ** ** , Commonly Known by the Name of George Psalmanazar; a Reputed Native of Formosa\". The book, which was published posthumously, withholds his real birth name, which is still unknown, but contains a wealth of detail about his early life and the development of his impostures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41803926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41803926", "title": "Gert Alberts", "text": "Gert Alberts\n\nGert Andries Jacobus Alberts (born 3 January 1836 in Swellendam – died 29 March 1927 in Humpata) was the leader of the First Dorsland Trek. He was a member of the Gereformeerde Kerk (or 'Dopper' church) and served as a ‘kerkraadslid’.\n\nElected leader of the trekkers, he left Pretoria on 27 May 1874. Alberts led ten families across the Kalahari, taking 50 oxwagons and 1,400 cattle with them. He split the trek in three groups, with a two-day interval between them, to avoid overcrowding the rare waterholes along the path. Three families turned back before they crossed the Kgalagadi Desert, where a handful of cattle were lost during the waterless journey.\n\nReaching Lake Ngami on 29 April 1875, they demanded Hendrik van Zyl, a trader based in Ghanzi with a reputation for ruthlessness, access to his wells, but he initially refused. He ultimately agreed to let them have water, and the trekkers continued to Rietfontein, on the border with German Southwest Africa.\n\nThe group arrived in Rietfontein in January 1876, and Andries Lambert, the Oorlams captain at Gobabis, granted them permission to stay. They remained for a year, leaving only when they received a call for help from the second party of Dorsland Trekkers; they had attempted to cross the Kgalagadi with 500 people in 128 wagons, more than could be supported by the desert environment. Alberts and his group managed to rescue some of them, and they continued their trek, reaching Okavango, where they were struck by malaria.\n\nOver a period of five years, the survivors arrived in the Humpata Highlands, in present-day Angola; where Alberts died in 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "842981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=842981", "title": "Helmut Vetter", "text": "Helmut Vetter\n\nHelmut Vetter (21 March 1910 in Rastenberg – 2 February 1949) was an \"SS-Hauptsturmführer\" and a Nazi war criminal.\n\nVetter was a doctor at the Auschwitz extermination camp, appointed chief doctor by \"Reichsführer-SS\" Heinrich Himmler. He joined other doctors (such as Hans König, Heinz Thilo, and Fritz Klein) in the task of choosing employable Jews to operate the industrial machines and sending others to the gas chambers. He also carried medical experiments on prisoners, involving phenol injections\n\n"}
{"id": "30717591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30717591", "title": "Javier Gil Sevillano", "text": "Javier Gil Sevillano\n\nJavier Gil Sevillano is the current professor of materials engineering at the Tecnun School of Engineering of the University of Navarra in Spain, and head of the Materials Department at CEIT Research Institute.\n\nA graduate in metallurgical engineering from the University of Navarra, Professor Gil Sevillano obtained his PhD in at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium in 1978. The recipient of several awards, Spanish national newspaper \"El Mundo\" has described him as \"one of the leading scientists in materials research in the country\".\n\nSevillano's research has focused on the mechanical stress–strain response, structural evolution, texture development and fracture of materials undergoing large plastic strains. He has participated in more than 40 national and international research projects, has directed doctoral theses and is the author or co-author of about 130 scientific papers in refereed journals in the areas of materials science and technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34270170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34270170", "title": "Jean-Frédéric Perregaux", "text": "Jean-Frédéric Perregaux\n\nJean-Frédéric Perregaux (1744–1808) was a banker from Neuchâtel (now in Switzerland).\n"}
{"id": "10343050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10343050", "title": "Jim Wakeford", "text": "Jim Wakeford\n\nJim Wakeford (born 1944 in Regina, Saskatchewan) is a well-known medical marijuana advocate based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In 1989 Wakeford was diagnosed with the HIV virus. The medicines used to treat his illness made him nauseated and inhibited his appetite. Wakeford credits marijuana with helping treat the side effects of the medications used to keep him alive. Wakeford and his lawyer Alan Young challenged the Ontario Court's General Division for denying him, and other medical marijuana users, the right to use the drug. The Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould assisted Wakeford by testifying in the case, arguing that the illicit substance proved invaluable in treating the side effects of his cancer treatments. On September 7, 1998 Wakeford's suit against the government was dismissed. The judge ruled it was up to Parliament to overturn the law. In May 1999 the courts ruled that Wakeford could smoke and grow his own marijuana.\n"}
{"id": "52514632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52514632", "title": "Kunwar Bai Yadav", "text": "Kunwar Bai Yadav\n\nKunwar Bai Yadav (died 23 February 2018) was a supposedly 106-year-old woman who lived in a village in Dhamtari district in the central Indian state of Chhattisgarh. Inspired by the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Clean India Campaign), she sold seven of her goats to raise the money to build a toilet at her house. In 2016, the district was declared the first in the state to be free of open defecation, and she was declared a mascot of the campaign and visited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.\n\nYadav lived in Kotabharri, a village in Dhamtari district, Chhattisgarh. The villagers had always defecated in the open, in the forest. In 2015, she heard about toilets for the first time in a presentation at the local school as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, a campaign to end open defecation by 2 October 2019, the 150th anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi. \nShe sold seven of her two dozen goats, her only available assets, and with the help of a daughter-in-law who works as a day labourer, raised the 22,000 to build a toilet at the house she shared with her family. Others in the village followed suit, and, in late 2016, the district became officially free of open defecation, the first district in the State to achieve this.\n\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi visited Kotabharri and bowed and touched Yadav's feet. She has been declared a mascot of the Clean India Campaign.\n\nYadav was admitted to Ambedkar Hospital in Raipur after she suffered from an illness. She died at 10:40 a.m. (IST) there on 23 February 2018, aged 106.\n\n7. ^ राकेश पाण्डेय ^ (18/01/2016) \"कुंवर बाई यादव, 104 साल की उम्र में बकरियां बेच गांव के लिए बनवाए शौचालय, दैनिक भास्कर: 13 अगस्त 2018\n"}
{"id": "991720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=991720", "title": "Leah Remini", "text": "Leah Remini\n\nLeah Marie Remini (; born June 15, 1970) is an American actress, author, former Scientologist and anti-Scientology activist. She starred as Carrie Heffernan on the long-running CBS comedy series \"The King of Queens\" (1998–2007) and later co-hosted \"The Talk\" in 2010–11. Since 2016 she has co-produced and hosted the Emmy Award–winning A&E documentary series \"\".\n\nRaised as a member of the Church of Scientology from childhood, Remini left the organization in 2013 and began public criticism of Scientology. Two years later, she released \"\", her memoir about her experience with Scientology and reasons for leaving it. In 2016, she followed up her memoir with an Emmy Award–winning documentary television series on the A&E network, \"\", to highlight other former Scientologists' experiences. After a successful first season, the series was renewed by A&E, and the second season debuted in late summer 2017. On March 14, 2018, A&E announced that the series would return for a third season. Since May 2017, Remini has also starred in the 2016 television sitcom \"Kevin Can Wait\" as Vanessa Cellucci, alongside Kevin James, her former co-star on \"The King of Queens\"; this was later cancelled after two seasons.\n\nRemini was born June 15, 1970, in Brooklyn, New York City, to Vicki Marshall, a schoolteacher, and George Remini, who owned an asbestos removal company. Her mother is of Austrian-Jewish descent, while her father has Sicilian ancestry. Remini has a brother, Michael, an older sister named Nicole and four half-sisters: Christine, Stephanie,—who died of cancer in 2013— Elizabeth, and Shannon.\n\nShe was baptized Roman Catholic and raised in the Catholic tradition during her early childhood; when she was nine years old, her mother joined the Church of Scientology, and Remini was thereafter raised as a Scientologist. At thirteen years old, Remini moved to Los Angeles, California, with her mother, where she spent the remainder of her teenage years.\n\nOne of Remini's early television roles was on \"Who's the Boss?\" as Charlie Briscoe, which led to a spin-off series entitled \"Living Dolls\", in which Remini starred with Halle Berry. The show premiered in late 1989 and ran for 12 episodes before being canceled.\n\nIn 1991, Remini had a supporting role on the short-lived ABC comedy \"The Man in the Family\". She then had recurring roles on \"Saved by the Bell\", where she played Stacey Carosi, and on \"Evening Shade\" as Daisy, the girlfriend of Taylor Newton (Jay R. Ferguson). Remini then appeared in two more short-lived series, \"First Time Out\" (1995) and \"Fired Up\" (1997–98). In 1993, she appeared on \"Cheers\" as Serafina, the daughter of Carla and Nick Tortelli (Rhea Perlman and Dan Hedaya). In 1994, Remini auditioned for the role of Monica Geller on \"Friends\", but the role went to Courteney Cox. Remini later appeared in the 1995 \"Friends\" episode \"The One with the Birth\" in which she played a pregnant woman. In 1998, Remini landed the role of Carrie Heffernan on the CBS sitcom \"The King of Queens\". The series was successful, and ran for nine seasons from September 21, 1998, to May 14, 2007.\n\nDuring her time on the show, she had a supporting role in the comedy film \"Old School\" (2003). Remini also starred in her own reality show, which aired on VH1. Since \"The King of Queens\" ended, Remini has starred in nine-episode webisodes of \"In the Motherhood\", along with Chelsea Handler and Jenny McCarthy. She has made two guest appearances on \"Chelsea Lately\". On December 15, 2009, Remini appeared as Carrie Heffernan on \"Lopez Tonight\", with George Lopez as Doug Heffernan in an episode reuniting the cast of the \"George Lopez\" sitcom. Remini and Holly Robinson Peete appeared on \"The Young and the Restless\" on July 28, 2011.\n\nIn October 2011, Remini signed a talent development deal at ABC and ABC Studios that required the network and the studio to develop a comedy project for Remini to star in and produce. In March 2012, it was announced that Remini would star in an ABC comedy \"Family Tools\", a remake of the UK comedy series \"White Van Man\". The series premiered on May 1, 2013, and was not renewed owing to low ratings, ending its run on July 10, 2013.\n\nRemini competed on season 17 of \"Dancing with the Stars\", in which she was partnered with professional dancer Tony Dovolani. The couple made it to the 10th week of competition and reached 5th place. Remini later returned in season 19 as a guest co-host on week 6. She returned as guest co-host on season 21 during weeks 6 and 7.\n\nIn 2013, Remini joined the cast of the TV Land comedy \"The Exes\", filling a recurring role starting in season three.\n\nRemini and her husband Angelo starred in a reality television series titled \"\". The show focuses on Remini's family life. It premiered on TLC on July 10, 2014. According to Remini, the purpose of the show is to highlight the fact that she's a normal person just like everyone else and that celebrity doesn't change that.\n\nRemini developed an eight-episode series for A&E focusing on ex-Scientologists speaking candidly about their experiences entitled \"Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath\". The show premiered November 29, 2016. In a statement released by the network Leah said:\n\nIn early 2017, Remini returned to acting and was announced as one of the leads in NBC's sitcom \"What About Barb?\", a gender-swapped version of the 1991 Frank Oz comedy \"What About Bob?\". She portrayed Suzanne, a renowned psychotherapist and best-selling author. Ultimately, NBC passed on the project and it wasn't picked up to series. In March 2017, it was announced Remini would reunite with Kevin James on the season finale of \"Kevin Can Wait\". In June 2017, it was announced Remini was upped to a series regular beginning with season two.\n\nRemini was a co-host on \"The Talk\", a CBS talk show which premiered October 18, 2010. Julie Chen, Sara Gilbert, Holly Robinson Peete, and Sharon Osbourne were her co-hosts. The show is similar to \"The View\" and seeks to address motherhood and contemporary issues. Remini drew criticism within the first week of the show's debut, accused of being too loud, brash, and obtrusive. It was stated on one episode that she had received a significant amount of negative Twitter feedback on this subject. Remini addressed the issue, stating she refused to change who she is and asserting that thousands of fans like her for who she is. Her co-hosts supported her response.\n\nA refusal to disclose why Remini and Peete were fired brought on a great deal of criticism of the show and protests from the stars' fans. While there was much speculation that their former \"Talk\" co-host, Julie Chen, had involvement in the decision, as she is married to former CBS President/CEO Leslie Moonves, it was Sharon Osbourne who stated, regarding their dismissals, in December 2011 on \"The Howard Stern Show\": \"Some people don't really know who they are. And you have to know who you are when you're in something like this. You can't pretend to be something you're not. You have to know your brand. You can't be all things to everyone.\" Osbourne replied to criticism about the refusal to inform Remini and Peete why they were let go, rhetorically stating, \"Why should we call them to discuss?\"\n\nIn March 2012, a heavily publicized Twitter dispute ignited between Remini and Osbourne when Remini fired back at Osbourne for her comments on \"The Howard Stern Show\". In response to questions from her Twitter followers, Remini tweeted:\n\nIn response, Osbourne tweeted, \"I had absolutely nothing to do with her departure from the show and have no idea why she continues to take to Twitter to spread this false gossip.\" Leah knows that I have never been in the position to hire or fire anyone on the show. That being said, my only wish is that Leah would just stop all this negative, unprofessional and childish behavior. It's been seven months. It's time to move on. Leah is a very talented actress and I only wish her happiness and success. I know that better things are to come if she can just get beyond this negativity.\" Remini tweeted a challenge to Osbourne to establish in a court of law what statements she (Remini) had made that were untrue.\n\nWhile co-hosting \"The Talk\", Remini turned down various parts on situation comedies, stating that any new role would make her feel as if she were cheating on Doug Heffernan, her character's husband on \"The King of Queens\". She added that she needs to spend more time with her child and family.\n\nRemini met actor Angelo Pagán at a Cuban restaurant in 1996. He has three sons from previous relationships. They were married on July 19, 2003. Their daughter, Sofia, was born on June 16, 2004, one day after Remini's 34th birthday.\n\nRemini was a member of the Church of Scientology from the age of nine. In December 2005, she helped the Citizens Commission on Human Rights to promote the gala opening of the \"\" museum on Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood. Responding to criticism of Scientology during an interview on CNN:\nIn July 2013, Remini left the Church of Scientology, owing to policies that forbid members from questioning the management of church leader David Miscavige, which she believed was corrupt; the reported abuse of members of its Sea Org religious order; its policy of \"disconnection\"; and its practice of branding those who have left the church of their own accord as \"Suppressive Persons\". According to former high-ranking Sea Org member Mike Rinder, Remini's problems with the Church began when she asked about the whereabouts of Miscavige's wife Shelly at the 2006 wedding of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes, and was told profanely that she lacked the rank to do so. Remini then filed a \"knowledge report\" that was critical of Miscavige, Cruise, and other senior Scientology members and behavior on the part of members that was inconsistent with Church rules. She was subsequently \"subjected to years of 'interrogations' and 'thought modification'\" that led to her being blacklisted within the Church, while fellow parishioners with whom she had been friends for decades wrote internal reports about her, resulting in a Church investigation into her family.\n\nDuring a September 9, 2013, appearance on \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", Remini discussed her departure from the Church and the loss of friends who are still in the Church and, according to Remini, are not permitted to have contact with her. Following her departure from the Church, she publicly expressed her appreciation for those who supported her departure. Remini's sister, Nicole, who had earlier left the Church herself, revealed that the rest of their family left the Church along with her to avoid being split up by the Church's disconnection policy. Writer and director Paul Haggis, who had previously been the most famous person to publicly disavow Scientology, wrote an open letter, published by \"The Hollywood Reporter\", thanking Remini for standing by him after he left the Church and praised her \"enormous amount of integrity and compassion\".\n\nIn August 2013, it was disclosed that Remini had filed a missing person report with the Los Angeles Police Department concerning Shelly Miscavige, the wife of Scientology leader David Miscavige, who had not been seen in public since 2007. After the report was filed, the Los Angeles Police Department looked into the matter, met with and spoke with her before closing the investigation and stating Remini's report was \"unfounded\". The Church said in a statement that the whole affair was simply harassment and a publicity stunt for Remini.\n\nIn October 2013, it was reported that Remini had been subpoenaed to testify in a Comal County, Texas, lawsuit against the Church of Scientology and its leader David Miscavige, regarding acts of alleged harassment and surveillance against the wife of a former member, Monique Rathbun (who was married to ex-Scientology executive Mark Rathbun). Rathbun's attorney, Ray Jeffery, says he wants Remini, a former Scientologist, to give a deposition in the hopes she could testify that Miscavige has vast influence over the operations of the church and had to have known about the alleged harassment.\n\nRemini released her memoir \"Troublemaker: Surviving Hollywood and Scientology\" on November 3, 2015. In a 2015 interview with \"People\" magazine, Remini stated that she was embracing Catholicism and found comfort in the religion's practices, contrasting her experiences with Scientology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35635273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35635273", "title": "List of Adelaide United FC club award winners", "text": "List of Adelaide United FC club award winners\n\nThe Adelaide United FC awards night is held annually and recognises the football club's best and fairest players as viewed by the club, the media, its coaches and its players.\n\n\"The most prestigious award and highest accolade to be bestowed upon a player. The award goes to a player who has consistently made a significant and positive difference to the team’s performance during the games played, represented the club in an exemplary way, portrayed a totally professional attitude to everything he did on and off the park and personifies the vision of the club.\"\n\n\"Voted by his team mates to be consistently the most valuable player on the park, set standards on and off the park that all players in the team aspire to and best exemplify their ideal type of player.\"\n\n\"Voted by the coaches as a player who exemplifies, on and off the park, the culture, values and morals that all members of the squad can aspire to, has shown themselves to consistently put their needs second to that of the team and has never complained about making a sacrifice.\"\n\n\"A young player voted by the coaches to have made a significant impact over the season, demonstrated the greatest growth in their development as a professional player and promises the greatest potential growth as a professional player.\"\n\n\"The player who consistently made a significant and positive difference to the team’s performance during the games played and portrayed a totally professional attitude.\"\n\n\"The player who consistently made a significant and positive difference to the team’s performance during the games played and portrayed a totally professional attitude.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42330750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42330750", "title": "List of Falkner Island Light keepers", "text": "List of Falkner Island Light keepers\n\nThere have been many Falkner Island Light keepers throughout the history of the lighthouse. The Falkner Island Lighthouse is a lighthouse in Connecticut, United States, off Guilford Harbor on Long Island Sound. The lighthouse was constructed in 1802 and commissioned by President Thomas Jefferson, warning of dangerous shoals and shallows in the area. Falkner Island Light is the second oldest extant lighthouse in Connecticut and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n"}
{"id": "52245164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52245164", "title": "List of roads in Haute-Savoie named after women", "text": "List of roads in Haute-Savoie named after women\n\nThis list shows the roads in Haute-Savoie named after a woman, order by city or agglomeration.\n\nThe city of Annecy has 20 roads named after a woman among 355 roads\n\nIn addition, Annecy has a high school named after Geneviève de Gaulle-Anthonioz and Meythet has library named after Louise Michel.\n\n"}
{"id": "42705922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42705922", "title": "Liu Gang", "text": "Liu Gang\n\nLiu Gang (born 30 January 1961) is a Chinese scientist and revolutionary who founded the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation. He was a prominent student leader at the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Liu holds a M.A. in physics from Peking University and a M.A. in computer science from Columbia University. After his exile to the United States in 1996, Liu studied technology and physics at Bell Labs in New Jersey. Liu was employed at Morgan Stanley as a Wall Street IT analyst.\n\nAs an undergraduate student at University of Science and Technology of China in Hefei, Liu met Fang Lizhi, a pro-democracy activist. Then, at Peking University, Liu organized \"Democracy Salons\". Wang Dan later held a position there.\n\nLiu was a 28-year-old graduate when the 1989 demonstrations began. He organized the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation and joined the movement's organizing body. As a result, he was sixth on a list of twenty-one activists whose arrests were ordered by the government. Liu went into hiding as a fugitive, but on 15 June 1989, Liu was arrested and charged with attempted subversion of the Communist Party of China. In 1991, he was convicted and sentenced to six years imprisonment at Qincheng Prison.\n\nAfter his release from prison in 1996, Liu continued to advocate for human rights in China and organized an underground democracy movement.\n\nIn 1982, Liu received a bachelor's degree in modern mechanics from the University of Science and Technology of China. He was employed by the Aviation Industry Corporation of China in Shenyang in the field of aerodynamics. He worked in partnership with Luo Yang, and was promoted to head of aircraft design. Liu's field of research was the theory of air resistance, and he worked on problems of double-sided entry and radar technology.\n\nIn 1984, Liu received a master's degree in optics from the Department of Physics at Peking University in Beijing. While there, he was an assistant teacher. Liu returned to work at the China Soft Science Research Institute but was also acting assistant director at the University of Science and Technology of China.\n\nIn 1988, Liu became an assistant and associate researcher at the Wear-Resistant Materials Development Company of the National Ministry of Higher Education & the Dalian Institute of Technology. He was then transferred to research in the Department of Physics at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1996, Liu received a master's degree in computer science from Columbia University. He was invited to speak at the New York Academy of Sciences. Liu gained employment as a member of technical staff (MTS) at the Mathematics of Networks and Systems Research Department at Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, New Jersey. There he worked on Optical telecommunication network design and planning, routing algorithms, optimization techniques, and economic models and strategy analysis.\n\nLiu's areas of research included: SPIDER, a design tool for fast-restoration in all-optical networks; VPNStar, a system for provisioning multi-service VPNs with Quality of service guarantees over Internet Protocol; in software design, a management system for Lambda Router in all-optical networks; and analysis of Internet pricing.\n\nDuring his days at Bell Laboratories, Liu introduced the A*Prune (1999, ) with K. G. Ramakrishnan, to describe a new class of Algorithm. This opened a new research direction in theoretical science. He found that A*Prune is comparable to the current best known-approximate algorithms for most randomly generated graphs. The algorithm constructs paths, starting at the source and going towards the destination. But, at each iteration, the algorithm is rid of all paths that are guaranteed to violate the constraints, thereby keeping only those partial paths that have the potential to be turned into feasible paths, from which the optimal paths are drawn.\n\nLiu also proposed a special class of Optical devices called SPIDER (2001, ); optical routers, dense wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) systems, and cross-connects of unprecedented capacities. Liu and his colleagues are developing techniques for efficient and reliable optical network design, covering decentralized dedicated protection to shared path-based mesh restoration.\n\nSince 2011, Liu had been involved in a bitter divorce with his former wife, the judge presided the case had declared him mentally unstable, and appointed a custodian guardian to represent him against his wish; among Liu's accusations: his wife was a spy sent by Chinese Communist central committee to monitor him, and his ex-employer Morgan Stanley fired him to appease Chinese government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19791649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19791649", "title": "Louisa Cadamuro", "text": "Louisa Cadamuro\n\nLouisa Nécib Cadamuro (; born 23 January 1987) is a retired French women's international footballer. She spent the majority of her career at Lyon, amassing eighteen titles with the French club over a nine-year span. She played as a central attacking midfielder and is described as a \"gifted playmaker\" who \"possesses superb technique\". Nécib is also known for her \"elegant possession, sublime passing skills, and cultured touch on the ball\".\n\nShe has been labeled by the French media as \"the female Zidane\" – like Zinedine Zidane, she has Algerian ancestry, grew up in Marseille and possesses immense skill, especially as a playmaker with an eye for goal. As such, she has been nicknamed \"Ziza\", a variant of Zidane's \"Zizou\". In an interview with FIFA.com just before the 2012 Olympics, she alluded to the comparison, saying, \"Zidane is a role model for me. He was always the player that I most enjoyed watching. The comparison was made frequently when I was starting out, and now, as the years pass, it happens less and less often. But I wouldn't say I’m tired of it.\" She often attempts to downplay the comparison, though, stating \"Being compared to Zidane is really nice, but I don’t think it can harm me because I’ve been hearing it since I was very young. It always makes me proud, but as I always say, I don’t think you can compare anyone to him. He's unique\". While training at the Clairefontaine academy in 2004, Nécib met Zidane, who was at the training center in preparation for qualifying for the 2006 World Cup (the finals would eventually be his last act as a professional). The two players exchanged shirts, and the shirt Nécib acquired from Zidane is currently in the possession of her father.\n\nNécib began her football career playing for local youth clubs in her hometown of Marseille, such as Union Sportive Marseille and Celtic de Marseille. With the latter club, she made her senior team debut in 2003 and, in the following season, helped the club win the Division 3 Féminine. In 2004, Nécib was selected to attend CNFE Clairefontaine, the women's section of the Clairefontaine academy. She spent two years at the training center, and in 2006, departed for Montpellier of the Division 1 Féminine. In her only season with Montpellier, Nécib helped the team win the 2006–07 edition of the Challenge de France. After departing Montpellier, she joined Lyon. Since joining the club, Nécib has won a slew of trophies, which include four league titles, one Challenge de France, and one UEFA Women's Champions League title. For her performances during the 2008–09 season, she was named the National Union of Professional Footballers (UNFP) Female Player of the Year.\n\nNécib is a former French women's youth international having represented her nation at all levels for which she was eligible. At under-19 level, she played on the teams that reached the 2004 and 2005 editions of the UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship. With the under-20 team, Nécib played at the 2006 FIFA U-20 Women's World Championship scoring a goal in the group stage against Argentina as France reached the quarter-finals. Prior to playing in the U-20 Women's World Cup, Nécib made her senior international debut in February 2005 in a friendly match against Norway. Two years later in March 2007, Nécib scored her first senior international goal in a UEFA Women's Euro 2009 qualifying victory over Greece. She has participated in five major international tournaments for her country; the 2005 and 2009 editions of UEFA Women's Euro and the 2011 and 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup and the 2012 Summer Olympics. In the latter competition, Nécib acted as the playmaker and contributed to the team that finished in fourth place.\n\nNécib was born on 23 January 1987 in the city of Marseille to parents of Algerian origin. Her father had emigrated to France from Biskra, while her mother had come from Oran. Nécib was raised in Busserine, a quartier located in the northern suburbs of the 14th arrondissement of Marseille and has a brother and sister. After signing with Lyon, Nécib enrolled at the Université Lyon 1 with hopes of completing her undergraduate studies in \"Sciences et techniques des activités physiques et sportives\" (STAP) (). She developed an interest in football at a young age, prior to which she trained in gymnastics. She, initially, did not look at the future prospects of women's football and played mainly for recreation with males stating \"I'd always played with the boys in my neighborhood\" and \"I didn't plan to join a club because, to be honest, I didn't know girls' teams existed. Then, one day I found out there was a club in the 14th arrondissement and I signed up\".\n\nIn June 2016, she married footballer Liassine Cadamuro-Bentaïba.\n\nNécib began her career as a youth player for her hometown club Union Sportive de Marseille. After spending two years at the club, she signed on with nearby Celtic de Marseille. Nécib spent six months developing in the academy and, in April 2002, she was selected to attend the under-16 female National Cup representing her region. The competition served as a training camp for the Centre National de Formation et d'Entraînement (CNFE) () located at the Clairefontaine academy in Clairefontaine-en-Yvelines. The initiative to allow women to train at the famous national center came about in the 1990s due to the fact that it had quickly become a high-level training facility for male football players. As a result of allowing female football players to train at the academy, younger women were afforded the same benefits from the facilities offered by Clairefontaine as the men. At the National Cup, Nécib impressed and was given an award by coaches for possessing the best shot of any player. After the competition, she returned to Celtic.\n\nAt the age of 16, Nécib was promoted to the senior team by coach Yohan Silvy in the latter part of the 2002–03 season. While at the club, Nécib was teammates with future national teammate Caroline Pizzala. In the 2003–04 season, Nécib flourished and helped the club reach the Division 3 Féminine league final where they faced the women's team of professional men's club Le Mans. In the tie, Nécib started and played the full match as Celtic cruised to a 4–1 victory. The result promoted the club to the Division 2 Féminine, the second division of French women's football. Nécib's performance that season attracted numerous attention, which resulted in her being nicknamed \"Titou\" as homage to Zinedine Zidane, who is nicknamed \"Zizou\".\n\nAfter three years with Celtic, in July 2004, Nécib was selected to attend the CNFE academy at Clairefontaine. She initially struggled to adapt at the center admitting \"the first year was really hard because I was so far from my family. I almost gave up\". However, after developing a rapport with future international teammates Sarah Bouhaddi, Élodie Thomis, Laure Boulleau, Jessica Houara, and the aforementioned Pizzala, Nécib quickly returned to the form that got her selected to the center. The CNFE academy is allowed participation in the French women's football league system and, from 2002–2007, fielded a team that participated in the Division 1 Féminine. Nécib spent two seasons with the team and made her league debut on 29 August 2004 against Lyon. In the match, she scored the only goal, a 90th-minute winner, in a 1–0 win. Nécib finished the campaign with 20 league appearances and six goals. Four of her six goals came in the final four weeks of the season. On 26 March 2005, she scored a double in a 4–2 defeat to Juvisy. A week later, she scored the only goal in a win over Olympique Saint-Memmie and, on the final match day of the season, she scored the team's fourth goal in a 5–1 win over Lyon. CNFE ultimately finished the campaign in 5th-place position. In the following season, Nécib appeared in 18 matches and scored three goals, all of which came in victories.\n\nAfter completing her education and training at Clairefontaine, Nécib returned to the south of France to sign with Division 1 Féminine club Montpellier. She joined the club alongside former Clairefontaine teammate Thomis and made her debut on 3 September 2006 in a 0–0 league draw with Toulouse. She scored her first goal for the club two weeks later on 17 September converting a double in a 5–0 away win over USCO Compiègne. On 8 October, Nécib scored the second goal in a 2–0 victory against Soyaux. In November, she scored two goals each in wins over FCF Condé-sur-Noireau and Hénin-Beaumont. Nécib finished the campaign with 11 league goals, which was third-best on the team behind Thomis and Elodie Ramos. In the Challenge de France, the women's domestic cup competition in France, Nécib helped Montpellier reach the final where the team faced Lyon. She played the entire match as Montpellier won 3–0 on penalties. The domestic cup title was Nécib's first major honour of her career.\n\nFollowing the season, on 22 June 2007, Lyon officials announced that the club had signed both Nécib and Thomis to contracts. Nécib was handed the number 14 shirt and made her club debut on 2 September 2007 in the team's opening league match of the campaign; a 4–0 win over La Roche-sur-Yon. A week later, she scored her first goal for Lyon converting a penalty kick in a 2–0 win against Paris Saint-Germain. Nécib also made her debut in European competition participating in the 2007–08 edition of the UEFA Women's Cup. On her debut against the women's team of Slovak outfit Slovan Duslo Šaľa in the group stage, Nécib netted a hat trick in a 12–0 win. She ultimately finished the European campaign appearing in ten matches and scoring six goals as Lyon reached the semi-finals where the club was eliminated by Swedish club Umeå. While simultaneously performing well in Europe, Nécib remained productive in the league scoring in league wins over Toulouse, Hénin-Beaumont, and Soyaux late in the season. Lyon eventually pulled away from both Juvisy and Montpellier in the league standings to claim its second straight league title and Nécib's first overall. Nécib later helped Lyon capture its third Challenge de France, which completed the club's league and cup double that season. She scored the second goal in a 3–0 win over Paris Saint-Germain in the final match.\nDuring the infancy of the 2008–09 season, Nécib was selected to join the new United States-based women's soccer league, Women's Professional Soccer, after her American playing rights were assigned to the Washington Freedom in the 2008 WPS International Draft. Her Lyon teammate Sonia Bompastor was also assigned to the Freedom. While Bompastor was allowed to negotiate her exit out of the club, Lyon chairman Jean-Michel Aulas was able to convince Nécib to remain in France after having previously declared the player off limits. Nécib scored her first league goal of the campaign on 14 September 2008 in a 12–0 home win over Vendenheim. A month later, she scored a double in an 8–1 victory over Soyaux. Nécib repeated her two-goal display on 1 February 2009 in a 5–0 away win over Stade Briochin. In the UEFA Women's Cup, Nécib scored her first two goals of the campaign in an 8–0 home win over Austrian club Neulengbach in a second qualifying round group stage match. On 18 November, she scored the third goal in a 4–1 second leg win over Italian club Bardolino. The 9–1 aggregate scoreline advanced Lyon to the semi-finals for the second consecutive season where Lyon were again eliminated, this time by German team FCR 2001 Duisburg. In the league, Lyon captured its third straight league title, but was unable to defend its Challenge de France title losing to the eventual champions Montpellier in the semi-finals. For her performances during the campaign, Nécib was named the National Union of Professional Footballers (UNFP) Female Player of the Year.\n\nIn the 2009–10 season, Nécib switched to the number 10 shirt and, due to participating in UEFA Women's Euro 2009, was limited to two substitute appearances in the team's first three matches of the season. In her first start of the campaign against Soyaux, she scored a double in a 5–0 win. In the team's first match following the September international break, Nécib scored a goal in the team's 7–1 away win over Toulouse. In November, while on international duty with France, Nécib suffered an injury and, subsequently, missed five weeks domestically. She returned to the team in the new year in a league match against Saint-Étienne. In the match, she scored a goal in a 4–0 win. Nécib finished the campaign scoring two goals in the team's final four league matches as Lyon claimed its fourth consecutive league championship and reached the semi-finals of the Challenge de France. In the re-branded UEFA Women's Champions League, Nécib made eight appearances scoring four goals as Lyon reached the final. In the semi-finals against Umeå, she converted two goals in a 3–2 first leg victory. The 0–0 draw in the second leg allowed Lyon to advance to the final. In the penultimate match, Lyon faced German club Turbine Potsdam. Nécib played the entire match in regulation time, but was substituted out prior to the start of extra time. Lyon eventually conceded defeat losing 7–6 on penalties.\nFor the second time in her career at Lyon, in the 2010–11 season, Nécib converted double-digit goals scoring 14, which was third-best on the team behind Sandrine Brétigny and Eugénie Le Sommer. She opened the campaign by scoring in the team's first league match; a 6–0 win over Toulouse. Two weeks later, Nécib scored the second goal in a 3–0 victory against Stade Briochin. After scoring against La Roche-sur-Yon on 7 November 2010, she went scoreless for two months. On 9 January 2011, she scored two goals in a 7–0 home win over Hénin-Beaumont. Two weeks later, Nécib scored another set of goals, this time against Juvisy in a 7–1 win. In the Challenge de France, she scored in back-to-back rounds against Montigny-le-Bretonneux and Rodez before playing 53 minutes in a quarter-final defeat on penalties to Juvisy. On the final match day of the season, despite Lyon clinching its fifth straight league title with several matches to spare, Nécib started the match and scored her first league hat trick in an 8–0 victory. In the 2010–11 edition of the Women's Champions League, she scored her only goal of the competition on 4 November 2010 in the first leg of Lyon's Round of 16 tie against Russian club Rossiyanka. Nécib netted the final goal in a 6–1 away win. Despite her limited scoring, Lyon still reached the final where the team faced its nemesis Turbine Potsdam. In the final, Nécib started the match and played 55 minutes before being substituted out. Lyon went on to win the match 2–0 to claim its first-ever European title.\n\nAfter the 2011–12 season, Nécib's contract with Lyon expired, which led to speculation that the player would join league rivals Paris Saint-Germain. However, on 16 July 2012, Nécib re-signed with Lyon after agreeing to a four-year contract with an option for a fifth year. On May 21, 2016, Lyon confirmed that Louisa Necib and her friend Lotta Schelin departure the club.\n\nIn July 2016, she confirmed that she would end her football career after the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nNécib is former France women's youth international having played for her nation at every level for which she was eligible. On 11 September 2003, she was called up to international level for the first time by coach Gérard Sergent to play with the under-17 team. She played with the team at the 2003 edition of the Nordic Cup, a premier women's youth tournament, before earning a call up to the under-19 team by coach Bruno Bini. At under-19 level, Nécib featured heavily playing with the team at the La Manga Cup and also representing France at the 2004 and 2005 editions of the UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship. In the 2004 competition, she appeared in two group stage matches as France suffered elimination in the group stage. In the 2005 edition, Nécib started all five matches France played as the team reached the final. She scored her only goal in the competition in a 4–0 opening group stage victory against Russia. In the final, France faced their group stage opponents Russia and were defeated 6–5 on penalties after the match finished 2–2 in regulation time.\n\nDue to France's second-place finish at the 2005 UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship, the team qualified for the 2006 FIFA U-20 Women's World Championship, which merited under-20 appearances for Nécib. She made her under-20 debut on 12 August 2006 in a World Cup preparation friendly against Mexico. In the match, Nécib scored the team's second goal in a 4–2 victory. At the World Cup, Nécib appeared in all four matches France contested. In the team's opening group stage match against Argentina, she scored the team's third goal in a 5–0 win. France suffered elimination in the quarter-finals losing 2–1 to North Korea.\n\nPrior to playing at the 2005 UEFA Women's Under-19 Championship, Nécib made her senior international debut on 19 February 2005 in a friendly match against Norway. She started the match and was substituted out after 56 minutes as France won 2–0. The victory was France's first-ever against Norway. Despite featuring in only two senior international matches, the other match being the return leg friendly against Norway on 22 February, Nécib, at the age of 18, was included in the team to play at UEFA Women's Euro 2005 by coach Elisabeth Loisel. The midfielder featured in only one match in the competition; the final group stage match against Germany. Nécib played the entire match as the Germans won 3–0. In 2010, Nécib admitted that she took the Germany defeat hard stating \"I still have regrets because all we needed was a draw and we conceded three goals in ten minutes\". France had kept the Germans at bay for the majority of the match before letting in three goals in the final 20 minutes.\n\nFollowing the conclusion of the 2006 U-20 World Cup, Nécib began playing full-time with the senior team participating in qualification matches for the 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup. During the season, Nécib also played with the team at the 2006 edition of the Algarve Cup. On 22 April 2006, she played with the team in a 5–0 World Cup qualification win against Hungary. Afterwards, Nécib failed to appear with the team in its final three qualification matches as France missed the World Cup after drawing 1–1 with England in its final qualifying match. France needed an outright victory to qualify for the tournament.\nAfter the firing of Loisel and the appointment of former youth national team coach Bruno Bini in 2007, Nécib became a regular starter in the team and, on 11 April 2007, scored her first international goal in a 6–0 victory over Greece in qualification for UEFA Women's Euro 2009. She featured as a starter in all seven qualification matches she appeared in and\nscored another qualification goal in an 8–0 away win over Serbia on 27 October 2007 as France qualified for the competition with one match to spare. In the lead up to UEFA Women's Euro 2009, France participated in the 2009 Cyprus Cup. In the competition, Nécib appeared in three matches and scored the team's second goal in a 3–2 group stage win over South Africa. France later finished the competition in third place. Nécib did not participate in the third-place victory over New Zealand. After being selected by Bini to participate in Women's Euro 2009, Nécib scored her fourth international goal in a preparation friendly against Scotland on 12 August 2009. In her second major competition for France, Nécib started all four of the team's matches. She scored her first major international goal in the team's opening group stage match against Iceland netting the final goal in a 3–1 win. France reached the quarter-finals before suffering elimination losing on penalties to the Netherlands.\n\nFollowing Women's Euro 2009, Nécib returned to the national team duty to participate in qualification for the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup. In qualification, she participated in nine of the ten qualifying round group stage matches France contested. France finished the stage winning all of its matches and conceding no goals. Nécib scored two goals during the round against Estonia in a 12–0 win and Northern Ireland in a 6–0 victory. In September 2010, she played in both legs of France's World Cup playoff match against Italy. France won the tie 3–2 on aggregate to qualify for its second FIFA Women's World Cup. On 19 November 2010, Nécib scored her first international double in a 5–0 friendly win over Poland. After playing in the 2011 Cyprus Cup and several friendly matches, on 6 June 2011, Nécib was named to the 21-woman squad to participate in the World Cup. On 18 June, in a prep friendly against Belgium, she scored her tenth international goal in a 7–0 home win.\n\nOn 26 June 2011, in France's opening World Cup group stage match against Nigeria, Nécib, on her competition's debut, was named the \"Player of the Match\" for her performance in the team's 1–0 victory. In the team's second group stage match against Canada, she assisted on the final goal, scored by Thomis, in a 4–0 win. Nécib started France's final four matches in the competition, which included a 4–2 loss against Germany in the team final group stage match and a 4–3 penalty shootout victory over England in the quarter-finals. France were eliminated from the competition in the semi-finals losing 3–1 to the United States after goals from Abby Wambach and Alex Morgan broke a 1-1 deadlock created when Sonia Bompastor had equalized following Lauren Cheney's opener. On 16 July, in the third place match against Sweden, Nécib was forced to leave the match after 30 minutes due to an injury, a sprained knee who forced her to leave the stadium on crutches. France lost 2–1. During and after the competition, Nécib was praised for her performance by several media outlets with one publication declaring that she \"was largely responsible for France making it the semifinals in the first place\".\n\nNécib primarily plays as an attacking midfielder, but can also be deployed in central midfield as a deep-lying midfielder, or as a winger. Domestically, she primarily plays as a playmaker in the number 10 role, while at international level, she plays as a winger in Bruno Bini's 4–3–3 formation. Two of Nécib's most common exemplary traits are her vision and passing, which have been described as \"one-of-a-kind\" and \"sublime\", respectively. She is also known for her distinct understanding of the game, which has led to her developing \"a great football IQ\". In addition to her creativity, eye for goal, and tactical awareness, she is known for outstanding control and dribbling ability, as well as her elegance on the ball. Her technical skill and ability to read the game allow her to determine \"when to take a defender on one-on-one, how to find a teammate with a slide-rule pass, and how to exploit tight spaces to create scoring chances for herself and her cohorts\". For these reasons, her playing style has drawn comparisons with compatriot and 1998 World Cup winner Zinedine Zidane.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55328915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55328915", "title": "Mary Muthoni Nyanjiru", "text": "Mary Muthoni Nyanjiru\n\nMary Muthoni Nyanjiru (died March 16, 1922) was born in Weithaga, Murang'a, although her date or year of birth are not recorded. By 1922, she lived in Nairobi with her stepdaughter, Elizabeth Waruiru. Mary was a Kikuyu woman and a Kenyan political activist remembered largely for her protest during the Harry Thuku Disturbances that resulted in her death.\n\nNyanjiru was an associate and supporter of Harry Thuku. Thuku, secretary and co-founder of the Young Kikuyu Association (later known as the East African Association) was known throughout Kikuyuland as \"chief of women\" mainly for his vocal support of women especially around the issue of forced labor. Women recognized him as someone fighting for them to help put an end to the physical and sexual abuse by the colonials and termination of indentured labor.\n\nThuku was arrested on March 14, 1922 over concern for his increasing militancy and the growing number of his supporters. The day following Thuku's arrest a strike was called by the EAA and thousands peacefully marched to the Nairobi police station, where Thuku was being held. The strikers came to demonstrate and secure his release. After praying for Thuku's safety the crowd dispersed. That evening, women supporters engaged in a practice called oathing, a custom exclusive to men. Oath-taking by women violated Kikuyu tradition as women were considered to be mentally unfit and bodily unable to endure the ordeal of taking oath. Elizabeth Waruiru, in her account of the events on the evening of March 15th named James Njorage, a member of the EAA as the oath-giver. Oaths were administered to over 200 women in the crowd, in essence, binding them to execute a specific plan of action. Historically, tribal oaths were not used by governmental institutions, the EEA was the first to do so. Whether oathing raised their political awareness or a sense of discipline, women acted in unity the following day when it was clear the Thuku would not be freed.\nOn the morning of March 16th a delegation of six men were chosen from the crowd to meet with Sir Charles Bowring, the Colonial Secretary, who assured them that Thuku was in no danger and was only being detained while waiting for the government to grant him a full hearing. The government hearing would fairly decide Thuku's fate. The delegation was encouraged to return to the crowd to ask them to peacefully disperse. Upon their return, they announced that Thuku was to be tried instead of released, then urged the strikers to go home. As many in the crowd were incensed, this was fruitless. Multiple first-hand accounts tell us it was then that a large group of agitated women were pushing forcefully toward the gate, some shouting at the men that they were cowards and making accusations of bribery to the delegation. Hearing this, the men who had actually started to disperse changed their minds and returned.\n“Mary Muthoni Nyanjiru lept to her feet, ran to the front of the crowd, lifted her dress over her head, and cried, \"You take my dress and give me your trousers. You men are cowards. What are you waiting for? Our leader is in there. Let's get him.\" The tactic, called \"guturamira ng’ania\", was considered a serious insult among the Kikuyu, who view it as a curse to see a woman the age of one's mother naked; rarely used, it indicates that the authority of men is no longer recognized in the situation, and is considered a powerful symbol of women's defiance. Many of the women present ululated their approval in response, and the crowd surged forward until the police or askaris opened fire. Nyanjiru was among the first people killed.\n\nThe total number of dead is given in various sources as between twenty-eight and over one hundred. There has been no evidence that the askaris were ordered to fire by the officers in charge”, though there are accounts stating that the askaris were on duty for eighteen continuous hours in the heat while being subjected to harassment by the crowd. The official number of casualties were given as twenty-one Africans killed, four of whom were women and an additional twenty-eight dead. Thuku's own account of the day, having seen events unfold from his cell, relates that as the police fired from the front, other European settlers who had gathered at the Norfolk Hotel began shooting into the crowd from behind.Other accounts concur; settlers were drinking on the veranda of the hotel near the scene and joined in the shooting and were responsible for many of the deaths.\n"}
{"id": "36668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36668", "title": "Mick Fleetwood", "text": "Mick Fleetwood\n\nMichael John Kells Fleetwood (born 24 June 1947) is a British musician and actor, best known for his role as the drummer and co-founder of the rock band Fleetwood Mac. Fleetwood, whose surname was merged with that of the group's bassist John \"Mac\" McVie to form the name of the band, was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998.\n\nBorn in Redruth, Cornwall, Fleetwood lived in Egypt and Norway for much of his childhood years as his father travelled with the Royal Air Force. Choosing to follow his musical interests, Fleetwood travelled to London at the age of 15, eventually combining with Peter Green, Jeremy Spencer and Bob Brunning, at Green's behest, to become the first incarnation of Fleetwood Mac. Fleetwood would remain the only member to stay with the band through its ever-changing line-up.\n\nAfter several album releases and line-up changes, the group moved to the United States in 1974 in an attempt to boost the band's success. Here Fleetwood invited Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks to join. Buckingham and Nicks contributed to much of Fleetwood Mac's later commercial success, including the celebrated album \"Rumours\", while Fleetwood's own determination to keep the band together was essential to the band's longevity. He has also enjoyed a solo career, published written works, and flirted briefly with acting and vinification, as well as opened blues-themed restaurants in Alexandria, VA and Hawaii.\nMichael John Kells Fleetwood was born in Redruth, Cornwall, second child to John Joseph Kells Fleetwood and Bridget Maureen (née Brereton) Fleetwood. His elder sister Susan Fleetwood, who died of cancer in 1995, became an actress. In early childhood Fleetwood and his family followed his father, a Royal Air Force fighter pilot, to Egypt. After about six years, they moved to Norway where his father was posted on a NATO deployment. He attended school there and became fluent in Norwegian.\n\nBiographer Cath Carroll describes the young Fleetwood as \"a dreamer, an empathetic youth\" who, though intelligent, did not excel academically. According to his own autobiography, Fleetwood had an extremely difficult and trying time academically at the English boarding schools he attended, including King's School, Sherborne, Gloucestershire, and Wynstones School, also in Gloucestershire. He performed poorly on exams, which he attributes to his persistent inability to commit facts to memory. He nevertheless enjoyed acting during school, often in drag, and was a competent fencer. At 6'6\", he was an imposing figure, and sported a beard and long hair for much of his life. \"Mick was very aristocratic,\" recalls Ken Caillat, a sound engineer on \"Rumours\". \"The way he formed sentences was impeccable. When he spoke, everyone stopped and listened. He was quiet and wise, and he had a great sense of humour. He loved to laugh, but he was also a straight shooter.\"\n\nDiverting from academic pursuits, Fleetwood took up the drums at a young age, grateful to his parents for their recognition that it was in music that he may find a future and their purchasing for him of a small \"Gigster\" drum kit when he was thirteen. His family encouraged his artistic side, his father composed poetry and was an amateur drummer himself. Fleetwood's early drumming was inspired by Cliff Richards' drummer in The Shadows, Tony Meehan, as well as that of the Everly Brothers. With his parents' support, he dropped out of school aged 15; and, in 1963, moved to London to pursue a career as a drummer. At first he stayed with his younger sister Sally in Notting Hill. After a brief stint working at Liberty in London, he found his first opportunity in music.\n\nKeyboard player Peter Bardens lived only a few doors away from Fleetwood's first home in London, and upon hearing of the proximity of an available drummer, Bardens gave Fleetwood his first gig in Bardens' band 'The Cheynes' in July 1963, thus seeding the young drummer's musical career. It would take him from The Cheynes – with whom he supported early gigs by the Rolling Stones and the Yardbirds – to stints in The Bo Street Runners, where he replaced original drummer Nigel Hutchinson, who had enjoyed brief television fame on \"Ready Steady Go!\". However, by April 1965, when Fleetwood joined the band, it was fading into obscurity. By February 1966 Bardens, who had left the group, called on Fleetwood to join his new band, the 'Peter Bs', which soon expanded to become 'Shotgun Express' (with Rod Stewart). Peter Green, who was a guitarist in the Peter Bs, left to join John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers, followed by Fleetwood in April 1967. His new band already featured John McVie.\n\nGreen became a supportive bandmate who helped Fleetwood in his early experimentation with the drum kit. In his personal life meanwhile, Fleetwood soon became infatuated with model Jenny Boyd, the sister of whom, Pattie Boyd, would be wife to both George Harrison and Eric Clapton. He was, however, dismissed from the Bluesbreakers for repeated insobriety during gigs. Both Fleetwood and McVie were heavy drinkers, and their combined efforts were too much for Mayall and the band to cope with. Green, feeling trapped within the Bluesbreakers, also left in June 1967. Recalling \"his favourite rhythm section, 'Fleetwood Mac'\" – Mick Fleetwood and John McVie – Green elected to invite both to join him in his new band, Fleetwood Mac. Though McVie hesitated briefly due to financial reasons, both joined Green by the summer of 1967 with a record contract on the horizon.\n\nThe initial incarnation of Fleetwood Mac performed its first gig in August 1967 at the seventh annual Windsor Jazz and Blues Festival, playing a Chicago-style blues. McVie, initially hesitant to commit, was later prompted to leave the Bluesbreakers and join Fleetwood Mac full-time when the former adopted a horns section with which he disagreed. He replaced the initial bassist, Bob Brunning. McVie, Fleetwood, Green and guitarist Jeremy Spencer thus formed the first fixed line-up of Fleetwood Mac.\n\nThe band's first album, \"Peter Green's Fleetwood Mac\", was released in 1968, and the band toured the United States for the first time, though Green was reluctant to do so for fear of gun crime. Upon their return, they recorded a second album, \"Mr. Wonderful\" under simply \"Fleetwood Mac\" with Green's name dropped. A guest musician on the album, Christine Perfect, became close with the group and she and McVie were married in 1968. A third guitarist, Danny Kirwan, was also added to the line-up. Despite the success of their third album, \"Then Play On\", and a string of hit singles including \"Albatross\" and \"Man of the World\", Green himself drifted away from the band, struggling both creatively and with increasing use of LSD. He later joined a Christian religious group.\n\nFleetwood himself later remarked on the growing stature of Green's difficulties: \"I think there is certainly some credence given to the idea that Peter's condition could in some way be blamed on a bad acid trip he had in Germany ... I don't think it did him much good.\" He also recalled in 1995 that \"Peter basically ceased to see the light with Fleetwood Mac and had aspirations of playing for nothing in strange places—none of which really happened. He made several interesting albums after he left, then basically took a left turn in terms of his psyche. He pulled out of the mainstream and chose to stay at home. He doesn't play much anymore, which is certainly a shame, because he's my mentor, and he's the reason that Fleetwood Mac became what we became.\"\n\nFleetwood remained a consistent presence in the ever-changing line-up of the group following the departure of Green in May 1970, when Spencer and Kirwan assumed more central roles in the group's song-writing. In June 1970, Fleetwood and Boyd were married. In September 1970 the release of \"Kiln House\" saw a line-up of Spencer, Kirwan, John McVie and Fleetwood, with Christine McVie providing keyboards and backing vocals. Fleetwood, \"a social creature who prized community and communication\", was particularly taken with the group's new living arrangements: they moved into a large Victoria-era mansion near Headley, Hampshire.\n\nBy early 1971, with Christine Perfect becoming an official member of the band, Fleetwood and the group boarded a plane to San Francisco. Spencer, fearful following the recent 1971 San Fernando earthquake, reluctantly boarded the plane. Having arrived in America, he grew more disillusioned with the group, and unsuccessfully pleaded with Fleetwood to cancel this leg of the tour. He left the hotel abruptly one evening, and was found later to have joined Family International, then known as Children of God, a religious group started in 1968 in Huntington Beach, California. Once more, Fleetwood attempted to mediate; however Spencer would not return. After Green was asked to return temporarily to help finish the tour, the band met with Bob Welch who would become their next member. Their next album, \"Future Games\", was released later that year. \"Bare Trees\" came a year later, in 1972. During the subsequent tours to promote the latter, Fleetwood once more adopted the role of mediator: Kirwan's self-destructive personality and problems with alcohol culminated in a refusal to go on stage before one concert; Fleetwood himself made the decision to fire the band member. Furthermore, there were early signs of strife in the marriage of John and Christine McVie. Fleetwood again stepped in to mediate between the two members, talking Christine out of a decision to leave the group. The band added guitarist Bob Weston and vocalist Dave Walker, formerly of Savoy Brown and Idle Race. The resulting turmoil, however, negatively affected their next album, \"Penguin\", released in 1973 to poor reviews. Walker was subsequently asked to leave the group, and the next album \"Mystery to Me\" was received more warmly.\n\nDuring the group's next tour to the United States, Fleetwood discovered that his wife, Boyd, was having an affair with band member Weston. Boyd and Fleetwood had one daughter together at the time. Fleetwood, after wrestling with the idea of leaving the band, was later critical of his own role in \"neglecting\" his family,\" though Caillat described Fleetwood in 2012 as \"a womaniser.\" In October 1973 Fleetwood instructed Weston to leave Fleetwood Mac. Fleetwood and Boyd divorced in late 1975. Fleetwood travelled to Zambia to convalesce, with Christine McVie – who was also suffering marital problems – travelling with him for part of the journey. Meanwhile, manager Clifford Davis began to lead a separate group of musicians under the name 'Fleetwood Mac', and his increasing legal assault on the original group pushed Fleetwood and his fellow band members to consider managing themselves. Fleetwood took on more managerial responsibility and leadership over the group. Davis meanwhile led a 'rebel' tour with a group under the name Fleetwood Mac, which was a failure. While the legal battle raged, Fleetwood applied his skills to a recording project being done in George Harrison's studio; Harrison also contributed to the project. \"On the Road to Freedom\", a collaboration from Alvin Lee and Mylon LeFevre was released in 1973. Also on the project were Ron Wood, Steve Winwood and Jim Capaldi.\n\nBy November 1974, despite having survived legal challenges from Davis, Welch departed. His marriage was failing and he felt that he had hit the end of his creative road with the group. Fleetwood meanwhile was planning a follow-up album to \"Heroes Are Hard to Find\" – Welch's last with the group – which had charted at 34 in the United States. Fleetwood was shopping with his children when a chance encounter with an old friend led him to visit Sound City and producer Keith Olsen. While at the studio, Olsen played samples from an album entitled \"Buckingham Nicks\". Fleetwood immediately \"was in awe\". Unbeknownst to him, both Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks were working in the studio at the time, though the three did not meet until later. On New Year's Eve, 1974, Fleetwood contacted Olsen to advise him that their planned project was on hiatus after Welch's departure, however he then suggested that Nicks and Buckingham join Fleetwood Mac. The group ate together at a local restaurant before practising together for the first time in the new studio. The next year the new line-up released \"Fleetwood Mac\".\n\nThe album proved to be a breakthrough for the band and became a huge hit, reaching No.1 in the US and selling over 5 million copies. Fleetwood and Olsen collaborated on a number of drumming innovations. \"It was all about 'plastic puke.' First off, for the kick drum I had Mick use a real skin, not a plastic head. All the bass drum sounds had snap and rack and warmth, but the snare drum on the whole album was a plastic puke.\" The album had reached No. 1 come November 1976, and at this time Fleetwood Mac became self-managing, with Fleetwood himself arguing that an external manager would be less apt at holding together such a group of dynamic personalities. He put forward an idea of promising to reimburse any losses suffered by promoters should they occur, in an attempt to raise the group's profile and earn more contracts and gigs. \"Self-management was the right decision,\" remembered freelance \"Rolling Stone\" writer John Grissim. \"Mick Fleetwood had great leadership skills ... had a great deal of experience – nine years. They were business-like, they always delivered the product and had the right lawyers and accountants for the job. They didn't need what Van Morrison called 'pressure mongers,'... they just needed to get on and make a really good album.\" Ken Caillat, sound engineer on \"Rumours\", concurred that Fleetwood \"had superb intuition and a flair for taking risks.\"\nAs with many musicians during the period in Los Angeles, the band began using copious amounts of cocaine. Fleetwood would go on to recollect in his autobiography that \"Until then, Fleetwood Mac hadn't had much experience with this Andean rocket fuel. Now we discovered that a toot now and then relieved the boredom of long hours in the studio with little nourishment.\" The personal relationships between the band members were becoming frayed. After six months of non-stop touring, the McVies divorced in August 1976, ending nearly eight years of marriage. The couple stopped talking to each other socially and discussed only musical matters. Buckingham and Nicks also fought often, a fact that was revealed to fans by \"Rolling Stone\" in April 1976. The duo's arguments stopped only when they worked on songs together. At the same time, Christine McVie and Nicks became closer. Fleetwood, meanwhile, began searching for a new recording location, and landed on the Record Plant of Sausalito, California. Grissim, working for \"Rolling Stone\", frequently met with the group and took a particular liking to Fleetwood, whom he described as \"a real pro.\"\n\nFleetwood Mac convened at the Record Plant February 1976 with hired engineers Ken Caillat and Richard Dashut. Most band members complained about the studio and wanted to record at their homes, but Fleetwood did not allow any moves. Despite his talent at keeping the group together, the recording of \"Rumours\" was fraught with emotional turmoil due to the collapsing relationships within the line-up. Christine McVie and Nicks decided to live in two condominiums near the city's harbour, while the male contingent stayed at the studio's lodge in the adjacent hills. Chris Stone, one of the Record Plant's owners, when the band jammed, recalled that \"The band would come in at 7 at night, have a big feast, party till 1 or 2 in the morning, and then when they were so whacked-out they couldn't do anything, they'd start recording\". Fleetwood often played his drum kit outside the studio's partition screen to better gauge Caillat's and Dashut's reactions to the music's groove. After the final mastering stage and hearing the songs back-to-back, the band members sensed they had recorded something \"pretty powerful\".\n\n\"Rumours\" was a huge commercial success and became Fleetwood Mac's second US number one record, It stayed at the top of the \"Billboard\" 200 for 31 non-consecutive weeks, while also reaching number one in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. The album was certified platinum in America and the UK within months of release after one million units and 300,000 units were shipped respectively. The band and co-producers Caillat and Dashut, would go on to win the 1978 Grammy Award for Album of the Year. By March, the album had sold over 10 million copies worldwide, including over eight million in the US alone.\n\nIn November 1977 Fleetwood and Nicks began having an affair. It would continue sporadically for the next two years during the fallout from the end of Fleetwood's relationship with Boyd, until the pair mutually decided to end the affair. \"Never in a million years could you have told me that [her affair with Fleetwood] would happen,\" Nicks later stated. \"Everybody was angry, because Mick was married to a wonderful girl and had two wonderful children. I was horrified. I loved these people. I loved his family. So it couldn't possibly work out. And it didn't. I just couldn't.\" Boyd and Fleetwood had in fact begun living together once more in 1976, and would remarry temporarily to assist their children with emigration to the United States. However they quickly divorced for the second time some months later. In November 1978 Fleetwood moved into a Bel Air home with Sara Recor, mutual friend of Fleetwood and Nicks who was at the time married to another music producer. Meanwhile, Fleetwood began working on a charity project to get Fleetwood Mac to tour the Soviet Union, however the Soviet–Afghan War later made the tour untenable.\n\n\"Tusk\", Fleetwood Mac's 12th studio album, was released in 1979. The work represented a more experimental direction taken by Buckingham. Fleetwood, recently diagnosed as having diabetes after suffering recurring bouts of hypoglycemia during several live shows, was again instrumental in maintaining the band's cohesion. He placated Buckingham over feelings of creative claustrophobia and discomfort playing alongside Nicks. On the issue of Buckingham taking creative control away from the other members of the group for the creation of \"Tusk\", Fleetwood recounts that his three-day discussion with Buckingham culminated in him telling the latter that \"if it's good, then go ahead.\" Though the nature of the album strained relationships again within the band – particularly John McVie, a long-established blues musician who disliked the experimental nature of the album – Fleetwood himself rates the album as his favourite by Fleetwood Mac, and cites the freedom of creative expression allotted to each band member as integral to the survival of the group. The album sold four million copies worldwide, a return noticeably poorer than \"Rumours\". Though Buckingham was blamed by the record labels, Fleetwood linked the album's relative failure to the RKO radio chain playing the album in its entirety prior to release, thus allowing mass home taping.\n\nLater that year, Fleetwood Mac embarked on a lengthy tour that brought them across America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, France, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands, and the UK. The tour lasted from October 1979 to September 1980, consisting of 113 concerts.\n\nFleetwood also led a number of side projects. 1981's \"The Visitor\" produced by Richard Dashut, featured heavy African stylistics and a rerecording of \"Rattlesnake Shake\" with Peter Green. The song \"You weren't in love\" was a hit in Brazil because of the Soap-opera Brilliant. In 1983 he formed Mick Fleetwood's Zoo and recorded \"I'm Not Me\". The album featured a minor hit, \"I Want You Back\", and a cover version of the Beach Boys' \"Angel Come Home\". A later version of the group featured Bekka Bramlett on vocals and recorded 1991's \"Shaking the Cage\". Fleetwood released \"Something Big\" in 2004 with The Mick Fleetwood Band, and his most recent album is \"Blue Again!\", appearing in October 2008 with the Mick Fleetwood Blues Band touring to support it, interspersed with the \"Unleashed\" tour of Fleetwood Mac.\n\nHe has played drums on many of his bandmates' solo records, including Law and Order, where he played on the album's biggest hit, Trouble. Other albums include French Kiss, Three Hearts, The Wild Heart, Christine McVie, Try Me, Under the Skin, Gift of Screws, and In Your Dreams. In 2007 he was featured on drums for the song \"God\" along with Jack's Mannequin in the Pop album \"\", a collection of covers of John Lennon songs.\n\nIn literature, Fleetwood co-authored \"Fleetwood – My Life and Adventures with Fleetwood Mac\" with writer Stephen Davis, published by William Morrow & Co. in 1990. In the book he candidly discussed his experiences with other musicians including Eric Clapton, members of The Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, as well as the affair with Stevie Nicks and his addiction to cocaine and his personal bankruptcy. Reception was mixed. Robert Waddell of the \"New York Times\" described the piece as \"a blithe, slapdash memoir.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\"s Steve Hochman noted that \"Fleetwood tells the story as if he was sitting in your living room, which is good for the intimacy of the tale, but bad for the rambling, sometimes redundant telling.\" Hochman did acknowledge that Fleetwood was \"one of rock's more colorful characters.\"\n\nFleetwood has a secondary career as a TV and film actor, usually in minor parts. His roles in this field have included a resistance leader in \"The Running Man\" and as a guest alien in the \"\" episode \"Manhunt\". Fleetwood co-hosted the 1989 BRIT Awards, which contained numerous gaffes and flubbed lines. In the wake of this public mishap, the BRIT Awards were pre-recorded for the next 18 years until 2007; the awards are now again broadcast live to the British public. Fleetwood and his third wife, Lynn, had twin daughters (Ruby and Tessa) who were born in 2002. He became a U.S. citizen on 22 November 2006. Fleetwood filed for divorce from Lynn in 2013.\n\nFleetwood was a self-taught drummer from his early childhood, after moving from a lacklustre academic performance at school to a love of music encouraged by his family, who bought him his first drum kit. His first years were heavily influenced by Tony Meehan and the Everly Brothers, and during his formative years in London during the late 1960s, Green helped Fleetwood through bouts of \"rhythmic dyslexia\" during live performances when Fleetwood panicked and lost the beat. He often sang filled pauses along to songs to help keep the beat. Green also instilled in Fleetwood an ability to follow and predict the lead guitarist, enabling him to meet the guitar with the drum rhythm as well as allowing him to know a good guitarist when he saw one – which would in part lead him later in his career to select Lindsey Buckingham.\nBob Brunning recalled from his early involvement with Fleetwood Mac that Fleetwood was \"very open to playing with different people as long as he didn't have to change his style. He was, and is, a completely straightforward drummer, and it works with a lot of different styles. I don't s'pose [sic] he's played a traditional drum solo in his life!\" Biographer Carroll highlights this ability as integral to the success of Fleetwood Mac, arguing that Fleetwood was not a virtuoso, but his disciplined and in-distractable manner of play allowed him to hold together a band of strong leading personalities without impinging upon their expression.\n\nCaillat, in contrast, cites Fleetwood as \"still one of the most amazing drummers I've ever met. He had his rack of tom drums arranged back to front. Most drummers place them from high to low (in pitch) from their left to right, but Mick chose to place his mid, high, low. I think perhaps this helped him develop his unique style. He hit his drums very hard, except for his kick drum. For some reason, when he played his high hat, it distracted him. He would keep perfect beat with his kick, but he played it so softly that we could hear his mouth noises through his kick mic.\"\n\nAt the age of 15, Fleetwood's parents bought him a Rogers drum kit, which helped him land his first gig as a drummer. During his tenure in Fleetwood Mac, he primarily used Ludwig Drums for live performances and Sonor Drums in the studio. He specifically sought Ludwig drums for their oversized bass drums and tom-toms. By the Tusk tour, Fleetwood dropped both drum kits from his arsenal in favor of Tama Drums. He attributed his pivot to Tama to Ludwig's supposed deterioration in quality and Sonar's inability to produce a bass drum suitable for Fleetwood's large frame. From the 90s onwards, Fleetwood has been an endorsee of Drum Workshop. His drum kit for the Say You Will Tour was made from wood dredged from the bottom of the Great Lakes. All of his drum shells and hardware are coated in 18 carat gold.\n\nFleetwood had played Paiste cymbals from the late 60s to early 90s, favoring their expressiveness and higher frequencies over Zildjian cymbals. He became dissatisfied with Paiste by 1994 and was added to the Zildjian roster.\n\nHe also uses Remo drumheads, Easton Ahead 5B Light Rock drumsticks and Latin Percussion. Fleetwood has incorporated many percussion instruments into his drum rig, including a 40 inch Zildjian gong, two rows of wind chimes, and congas.\n\nAlthough not a prolific writer, Fleetwood has co-written or written a few songs on Fleetwood Mac's albums.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18566307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18566307", "title": "Mountain leader", "text": "Mountain leader\n\nA mountain leader is a military professional specialising in delivering training for, or leading, operations in high altitude or extremely low temperature environments.\n\nThe conduct of warfare in high altitude or arctic environments in the British Armed Forces is the province of 3 Commando Brigade, a formation of the Royal Marines with a number of attached army elements. The brigade conducts annual training in the northern regions of Norway and has been deployed for high altitude operations globally.\n\nAssociated with the tasking as the lead force for mountain and Arctic warfare is the existence of the trade specialisation mountain leader (ML). Each sub-unit within the brigade is complemented with at least one mountain leader who will have undergone training in the Mountain Leader Training Cadre, formerly known as the Mountain and Arctic Training Cadre.\n\nMountain leaders (USMC and US Army) have extensive practical experience in a variety of mountain environments in both winter and summer conditions. They have well-developed hazard evaluation and safe route finding skills over all types of mountainous terrain. Mountain leaders are best qualified to advise commanders on all aspects of mountain operations, particularly the preparation and leadership required to move units over technically difficult, hazardous, or exposed terrain. In most cases the mountain leader is the highest level of qualification and is the principle trainer for conducting mountain operations. Mountain warfare instructor experience at a mountain training center or as a member of a special operations forces (SOF) mountain team is critical to the mountain leader development. Below is a list of the additional knowledge and skills expected of mountain leaders. Depending on the specific AO, mountain leaders may need additional over-the-snow mobility skills such as snowshoeing and all-terrain skiing.\n\n\nSome other countries have similar specialists for operating in cold and high altitude environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57651847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57651847", "title": "Ommo Clark", "text": "Ommo Clark\n\nOmmo Clark is a Nigerian software designer, CEO and founding director of iBez Nigeria. iBez Nigeria is an indigenous technology company that caters for the needs of businesses in emerging and underserved markets by developing software applications and online platforms and also trains software developers on software development processes.\n\nClark is an alumnus of London Guildhall University UK with Bachelors (Hons) in Business Administration. She also holds an MSc in Information Systems from Brunel University UK.\n\nOmmo had a brief career in international development after which she worked as an application support consultant with Real Asset Management UK. Several years later, she joined the investment bank, Lehman Brothers UK and worked as a team leader in the Mortgage capital division. Four years later, she joined Icelandic Investment Bank UK after leaving Lehman Brothers where she worked as an IT project manager. In 2008, she returned to Nigeria and worked with a software solutions company as head of project delivery and support. She joined International Development Company as Chief Operating Officer (COO) in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, Ommo decided to start iBez Nigeria, her own indigenous technology company, to promote and showcase locally developed software applications. Products created by iBez include: \nOmmo started her ICT business initiatives from her laptop.\n\n"}
{"id": "52678105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52678105", "title": "Osinlokun", "text": "Osinlokun\n\nOba Osinlokun or Eshinlokun (died 1829) reigned as Oba of Lagos from 1821 to 1829 . His father was Oba Ologun Kutere and his siblings were Obas Adele and Akitoye, making the Ologun Kutere Obaship line the dominant one in Lagos.. Among Osinlokun's children were Idewu Ojulari, Kosoko, and Opo Olu. \n\nAround 1820 or 1821, Osinlokun seized on the unpopularity of his younger brother Oba Adele, who was frowned upon for the introduction of the Egun masquerade, which at the time was seen as unbecoming. by forcibly taking the throne in a violent coup. Adele was exiled to Badagry where he assumed headship of the town. While in Badagry, Adele attempted to violently retake the Lagos throne but his efforts were futile.\n\nOsinlokun died in 1829 and was succeeded by his son Idewu Ojulari.\n"}
{"id": "28010547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28010547", "title": "Phantome", "text": "Phantome\n\nAccording to the folklore of Trinidad and Tobago this immensely tall spectre stands at the crossroads with his legs wide apart, straddling the road. As his victims approach, he snaps his legs shut, squeezing them to death. Their only warning is a shrill, spine-tingling whistle which he emits just before his assault.\n\n"}
{"id": "7065592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7065592", "title": "Pipe fitting", "text": "Pipe fitting\n\nPipe fitting or pipefitting is the occupation of installing or repairing piping or tubing systems that convey liquid, gas, and occasionally solid materials. This work involves selecting and preparing pipe or tubing, joining it together by various means, and the location and repair of leaks.\n\nPipe fitting work is done in many different settings:\nHVAC, manufacturing, hydraulics, refineries, nuclear-powered supercarriers and fast-attack submarines, computer chip fabrication plants, power plant construction, and other steam systems. Pipe fitters (sometimes called simply \"fitters\") are represented in the US and Canada by the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the United States and Canada.\n\nPipefitters work with a variety of pipe and tubing materials including several types of steel, copper, iron, aluminium, and plastic. Pipe fitting is not plumbing; the two are related but separate trades. Pipe fitters who specialize in fire prevention are called Sprinklerfitters, another related, but separate trade.\n\nMaterials, techniques, and usages vary from country to country as different nations have different standards to install pipe.\n\nSteel pipe (or black iron pipe) was once the most popular choice for supply of water and flammable gases. Steel pipe is still used in many homes and businesses to convey natural gas or propane fuel, and is a popular choice in fire sprinkler systems due to its high heat resistance. In commercial buildings, steel pipe is used to convey heating or cooling water to heat exchangers, air handlers, variable air volume (VAV) devices, or other HVAC equipment.\n\nSteel pipe is sometimes joined using threaded connections, where tapered threads (see National Pipe Thread) are cut into the end of the tubing segment, sealant is applied in the form of thread sealing compound or thread seal tape (also known as PTFE or Teflon tape), and it is then threaded into a corresponding threaded fitting using two pipe wrenches. Beyond domestic or light commercial settings, steel pipe is often joined by welding, or by use of mechanical couplings made by companies such as Victaulic or Anvil International (formerly Grinnell) that hold the pipe joint together via a groove pressed or cut (a rarely used older practice), into the ends of the pipes.\n\nOther variations of steel pipe include various stainless steel and chrome alloys. In high-pressure situations these are usually joined by TIG welding.\n\nIn Canada, with respect to natural gas (NG) and propane (LP gas), black iron pipe (BIP) is commonly used to connect an appliance to the supply. It must however be marked (either painted yellow or yellow banding attached at certain intervals) and certain restrictions apply to which nominal pipe size (NPS) can be put through walls and buildings. With propane in particular, BIP can be run from an exterior tank (or cylinder) provided it is well protected from the weather, and an anode-type of protection from corrosion is in place when the pipe is to be installed underground.\n\nCopper tubing is most often used for supply of hot and cold water, and as refrigerant line in HVAC systems. There are two basic types of copper tubing, soft copper and rigid copper. Copper tubing is joined using flare connection, compression connection, or solder. Copper offers a high level of resistance to corrosion, but is becoming very costly.\n\nSoft (or ductile) copper tubing can be bent easily to travel around obstacles in the path of the tubing. While the work hardening of the drawing process used to size the tubing makes the copper hard/rigid, it is carefully annealed to make it soft again; it is therefore more expensive to produce than non-annealed, rigid copper tubing. It can be joined by any of the three methods used for rigid copper, and it is the only type of copper tubing suitable for flare connections. Soft copper is the most popular choice for refrigerant lines in \"split-system\" air conditioners and heat pumps.\n\nFlare connections require that the end of a tubing section be spread outward in a bell shape using a flare tool. A flare nut then compresses this bell-shaped end onto a male fitting. Flare connections are a labor-intensive method of making connections, but are quite reliable over the course of many years.\n\nRigid copper is a popular choice for water lines. It is joined using a sweat, compression or crimped/pressed connection. Rigid copper, rigid due to the work hardening of the drawing process, cannot be bent and must use \"elbow fittings\" to go around corners or around obstacles. If heated and allowed to slowly cool, called annealing, then rigid copper will become soft and can be bent/formed without cracking.\n\nSolder fittings are smooth, and easily slip onto the end of a tubing section. Both the male and female ends of the pipe or pipe connectors are coated with flux to make sure there is no surface oxide and to ensure that the solder will bond properly with the base metal. The joint is then heated using a torch, and solder is melted into the connection. When the solder cools, it forms a very strong bond which can last for decades. Solder-connected rigid copper is the most popular choice for water supply lines in modern buildings. In situations where many connections must be made at once (such as plumbing of a new building), solder offers much quicker and much less expensive joinery than compression or flare fittings. The term sweating is sometimes used to describe the process of soldering pipes.\n\nCompression fittings use a soft metal or thermoplastic ring (the compression ring or \"ferrule\") which is squeezed onto the pipe and into the fitting by a compression nut. The soft metal conforms to the surface of the tubing and the fitting, and creates a seal. Compression connections do not typically have the long life that sweat connections offer, but are advantageous in many cases because they are easy to make using basic tools. A disadvantage in compression connections is that they take longer to make than sweat, and sometimes require retightening over time to stop leaks.\n\nCrimped or pressed connections use special copper fittings which are permanently attached to rigid copper tubing with a powered crimper. The special fittings, manufactured with sealant already inside, slide over the tubing to be connected. Thousands of pounds-force per square inch of pressure are used to deform the fitting and compress the sealant against the inner copper tubing, creating a watertight seal. Advantages of this method are:\n\nDisadvantages are: \n\nAluminium is sometimes used due to its low cost, resistance to corrosion and solvents, and its ductility. Aluminium tube is more desirable than steel for the conveyance of flammable solvents, since it cannot create sparks when manipulated. Aluminium tubing can be connected by flare or compression fittings, or it can be welded by the TIG or heliarc processes.\n\nTempered glass pipes are used for specialized applications, such as corrosive liquids, medical or laboratory wastes, or pharmaceutical manufacturing. Connections are generally made using specialized gasket or O-ring fittings.\n\nPipe fitters are often exposed to hazardous or dangerous materials, such as asbestos, lead, ammonia, steam, flammable gases, various resins and solvents including benzene, and various refrigerants. Much progress was made in the 20th century toward eliminating or reducing hazardous materials exposures. Many aspects of hazardous materials are now regulated by law in most countries, including asbestos usage and removal, and refrigerant selection and handling.\n\nOther occupational hazards include exposure to the weather, heavy lifting, crushing hazards, lacerations, and other risks normal to the construction industry.\n\n\nHatemřossia\n"}
{"id": "49710276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49710276", "title": "Robert Tuggle", "text": "Robert Tuggle\n\nRobert Tuggle (April 17, 1932, Martinsville, Virginia – January 21, 2016, New York City) was an American writer on music and a long-time staff member at the Metropolitan Opera from 1961–2015. In 1987 he was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Album Notes for the Met's recording of \"The Mapleson Cylinders\". His book \"The Golden Age of Opera\" was published by Holt McDougal in 1983.\n\nBorn in Martinsville, Virginia, Tuggle was the son of Howard Irvine Tuggle, an executive at Coca-Cola, and Margaret Tuggle (née Roper). He earned a degree in musicology from Princeton University in 1954 where his thesis was on Giuseppe Verdi. He then served in the Field Artillery Branch of the United States Army for two years before joining the staff of the Metropolitan Opera in the education department in 1957. \n\nFrom 1961–77 Tuggle was the director of the education department at the Met; overseeing the company's goal to engage students and teachers with the artform of opera. He penned several teacher's guides to the opera and oversaw the first ever opera performance at the newly built Metropolitan Opera House on April 11, 1966; a student matinee performance of \"La Fanciulla del West\" that was a \"sound test\" prior to the theater's official opening. He was also responsible for commissioning Al Carmines's one act opera \"The Duel\" which premiered in Brooklyn in 1974. \n\nIn 1981 Tuggle became Director of the Archives at the Metropolitan Opera; a post he held for the next thirty-four years. He was instrumental in the creation of the Met's digital database of performances, launched in 2005, which is available to the public for free online.\n\nTuggle's long time life partner was writer Paul Jeromack.\n"}
{"id": "4589171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589171", "title": "Salvador de Iturbide y Huarte", "text": "Salvador de Iturbide y Huarte\n\nPrince Salvador of Mexico, also named Salvador de Iturbide y Huarte (17 July 1820 – 7 June 1856) was the eighth child (and third son) of Agustín I of Mexico and Empress Ana Maria Huarte. He was married in 1845 to \"Doña\" María del Rosario de Marzán y Guisasola. His descendants, through his son Salvador de Iturbide y de Marzán, are the current pretenders to the Mexican Throne.\n\nPrince Salvador was two years old when he was created \"Príncipe de México\" (Prince of Mexico) and styled Highness by the Mexican Congress. He had nine brothers and sisters; Prince Imperial Agustín Jerónimo, Princess Sabina, Princess Juana, Princess Josefa, Prince Ángel, Princess María, Princess Dolores, Prince Felipe, and Prince Agustín Cosme. \n\nHe was educated at Collège Sainte-Barbe, Paris, France, and in Vienna, Austria. \n\nSalvador was the third in line to the throne, after his brother Ángel de Iturbide y Huarte. When Maximilian I of Mexico was crowned emperor, he contacted the Iturbide family to ask for the adoption of two boys: His Highness, Agustín de Iturbide y Green, son of Ángel, and His Highness Salvador de Iturbide y Marzán, son of Salvador.\n\nHe was drowned in a boating accident on the Tepic River, Nayarit, on 7 June 1856.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22728072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22728072", "title": "Sammy Bossut", "text": "Sammy Bossut\n\nSammy Andre Bossut (born 11 August 1985) is a Belgian professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Zulte Waregem in the Belgian Pro League. \n\nHe was a first team surprise in the 2006–07 UEFA Cup return against Newcastle United, in St James' Park.\n\nAt the end of the 2007-08 season, Zulte Waregem chose not to prolong the contract of Geert De Vlieger, who was until then first choice goalkeeper. Bossut started the last matches of that season to gain more first team experience. Instead of signing a new goalkeeper, Bossut was awarded his spot in the starting eleven for the 2008–09 season.\n\nAfter Silvio Proto got injured, national manager Marc Wilmots called up Bossut as potential third goalkeeper for the Belgium national football team at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Bossut played his first game with the national team against Luxembourg on 26 May 2014, but on 4 June FIFA ruled the match unofficial as Wilmots made 7 substitutions while only 6 are allowed in international friendlies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29482206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29482206", "title": "Secotan", "text": "Secotan\n\nThe Secotans were one of several groups of American Indians dominant in the Carolina sound region, between 1584 and 1590, with which English colonizers had varying degrees of contact. Secotan villages included the Secotan, Aquascogoc, Dasamongueponke, Pomeiock (Pamlico) and Roanoac. Other local groups included the Chowanoke (including village Moratuc), Weapemeoc, Chesapeake, Ponouike, Neusiok, and Mangoak (Tuscarora), and all resided along the banks of the Albemarle and Pamlico sounds. They spoke Carolina Algonquian language, an Eastern Algonquian language.\n\nIn the Carolinas, colonization did not exist as a straight-line transition, from Native American to European rule. A rivalry marked the relationship between the two European powers, the English and the Spanish. Rivalries also existed between the Native American groups. Additionally, the Europeans often found themselves caught in the middle of conflicts, which existed between Native American groups. Each group, European or Native American placed the interest of their group over the interest of all others. The English, the Spanish, and the Native American groups they had contact with each acted against the others, as counter-colonizers of the Carolinas as exhibited through the study of Roanoke Island.\n\nIn 1490, prior to England's entry into North American colonialism, the Treaty of Medina del Campo lowered tariffs between England and Spain, and ushered in an era of increased trading between the two countries. The marriage of Henry VIII of England and Catherine of Aragon (Spain) sealed the treaty. During this time, many English traders moved to southern Spain, in the area of Andalusia, and trade flourished. In 1533, Spanish officials began to harass the English in Spain, who were required as Englishmen to \"swear under oath\" that Henry VIII was the head of the church. The requirement of the oath made the Englishmen in Spain subject to persecution, under charges of heresy, by the Spanish Inquisition.\n\nTo circumvent Spanish officials and the inquisition, English traders devised a system, in which they would travel to Spanish possessions in the Caribbean, to pick up Spanish goods, and take them back to England, with no religious conflicts. By the 1560s, the English faced increasing Spanish hostility. In 1585, the Englishman Richard Hakluyt published a book, \"Discourse of Western Planting\", which concluded that the English should establish their own colony in the mid-latitudes of North America, to end dependency on Spanish goods, by creating their own supply lines. By April of the same year, Sir Richard Grenville left England, bound for the Carolina coast, with 100 colonists, which marked the beginning of England's colonial endeavours in America.\n\nSpanish colonies established the first European colonies in the Carolinas, under the leadership of Spanish captain, Juan Pardo, in 1567 and 1568. Pardo declared that the Catawba, Wateree, and Saxaphaw groups were subject to the Spanish crown, and he successfully persuaded the groups to construct housing and make food provisions, which created eleven Spanish settlements in the Carolinas. The Spanish still inhabited the Carolinas when the English arrived.\n\nWhile the Spanish settled in the interior of the Carolinas, the English arrived on the coast. The placement of a colony at Roanoke marked the first English colonial presence in North America.\n\nBefore the English placed their first settlement on Roanoke Island, Master Philip Amadas and Master Arthur Barlowe executed an expedition on \"April 27, 1584\", on behalf of Sir Walter Raleigh, who received an English charter, to establish a colony a month earlier. During their expedition, Barlowe took detailed notes relating to conflicts and rivalries between different groups of Native Americans. In one such account, Wingina, the \"wereoance\" or chief of the Secotans, explained his own tribal history, in relation to a neighboring tribe at the mouth of the Neuse River, the Neusiok, referred to as the Neiosioke by Barlowe. According to Wingina, the Secotans endured years of warfare with the Neiosioke, and \"some years earlier,\" he met with the Neiosioke king, in an effort to ensure a \"permanent coexistence.\" The two leaders arranged a feast between the two groups. An unspecified number of Secotan men and thirty women attended a feast in the town of Neiosioke. The Neiosioke executed an ambush on the Secotans at the feast, and by the time fighting ended, the Neiosioke had \"slewn them every one, reserving the women and children only.\"\n\nIn conveying this \"inter-tribal\" history to Barlowe, Wingina saw an opportunity to advance the interest of the Secotans. Wingina and his people attempted on several occasions to convince the English to join them in devising a surprise attack against the Neiosioke. The Englishmen, uncertain of \"whether their perswasion be to the ende they may be revenged of their enemies, or for the love they beare to us,\" declined to help the Secotans wage war against their rivals. Instead, the English established a trusting relationship with the Secotans, exemplified by the willingness of two Secotan men, Manteo and Wanchese, to accompany Amadas and Barlowe back to England.\n\nThe Secotan remained in the same area until 1644-5, when they were attacked and driven off by colonists from Virginia Colony during the last of the Anglo-Powhatan Wars. English settlement in the area began to increase soon afterwards, and it was officially transferred from Virginia Colony to the Province of Carolina in 1665. In latter years Secotans were recorded under the name Machapunga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58541947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58541947", "title": "Sengwer people", "text": "Sengwer people\n\nThe Sengwer people (also known as Cherang'any and previously as Sekker, Siger, Sigerai and Segelai) are an indigenous community who primarily live in the Embobut forest in the western highlands of Kenya and in scattered pockets across Trans Nzoia, West Pokot and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties. The Sengwer are sometimes portrayed as a component of the Marakwet people but are a distinct ethnic grouping. \n\nThe Sengwer have in all recorded accounts referred to themselves as such. The Karimajong came to refer to them by the name of the cowrie shell ornament that Sengwer women of the 1700 and 1800's adorned themselves with - a dangling cowrie shell referred to as esigirait, pl. ngisigira in Karimojong. They thus came to be known as Siger, Sigerai, Segelai and Losegelai in some accounts.\n\nAt its largest extent, Sengwer territory covered the northern parts of Uasin Gishu, as well as parts of Elgeyo-Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and a southern section of West Pokot;\n\nThe Sengwer of the Sirikwa era herded a distinctive type of long-horned black cattle, postulated by Lamphear (1994) as being a cervicothoraic-humped Sanga crossbreed.\n\nThe most notable element of Siger culture was an adornment of a single cowrie shell attached to the forelock of Siger women, a hairstyle that was also common to the Oropom who neighbored them to the west and north-west. This dangling cowrie shell was referred to as esigirait, pl. ngisigira and it is from this cultural feature that the Siger are said to have derived their name. \n\nDivination appears to have played a large role in Siger culture. The confederacy gave rise to the Meturona line of diviners among the Turkana, the Kachepkai diviners of the Pokot and the Talai diviners of the Uas Nkishu Maasai, the Nandi and Kipsigis.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, a drought captured in folklore as the \"Aoyate\" - the long dry time, struck. It appears that the factors that resulted in famine combined to decimate Siger identity. \n\nThe long-horned cattle that the Sengwer kept did not do very well in the Aoyate drought. The drought decimated the Sengwer herds and the community disintegrated. Many famine refugees who tried to push eastwards died of starvation near Moru Eris though some found refuge with the Dassanetch, Pokot and Karimojong. \n\nTo the north; Ateker societies, notably the emerging Turkana, who lived on the borders of Siger territory began encroaching on Siger highland pastures. These societies led a radically different way of life to the Siger, a spartanly pastoral world view based on their early possession of hardy thoraic-humped Zebus that were much more resistant to heat stress, drought and disease. The Turkana had bordered the Siger for some time and their initial interactions had been peaceful though conflict, likely spurred by the drought, developed towards the end of the 18th century.\n\nLarge parts of the Siger community, already decimated by the drought, were absorbed into the growing Turkana identity, becoming a territorial section known as \"Siger\" and probably forming several new Turkana clans, including the Siger, Swalika and Ngoleroto clans.\nTo the East; Rivalry was also developing with the Loikop (also known as 'Kor'), a Maa-speaking alliance that lived in close associations with various Cushitic speakig peoples. Like the Turkana, the Kor kept some of the hardy Zebus which allowed them to withstand the \"Aoyate\" a lot better than the Siger and to absorb members of the community as their society collapsed.\n\nSouth; Some refugees fleeing Turkana advances, raided south into the Uasin Gishu where they were known as Kakesira, and can be associated with the Losegelai (Siger = Sigerai = Segelai) Maasai of the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nSmall numbers of Siger retreated into the forests and into small enclaves among the emerging Marakwet society where they retained elements of their identity. The Maasai coined a derogatory term for the Sengwer after they lost their cattle. \n\nBy the early 20th century, \n\nThe Sengwer continues to be a marginalized community that is facing separate and significant threats to both its identity and ancestral lands in the present time.\n\nBy 1980, the pressures of population growth of forest dwelling communities in Kenya, among them the Sengwer, came against the governments desire and efforts to conserve the forests. A number of eviction attempts have been carried out since. \n\nOn 16 January 2018, Kenya Forest Service officers shot and killed Robert Kirotich Kibor and seriously injured David Kipkosgei Kiptikesi. The Sengwer men were herding their cattle at the time. Both were unarmed.\n\nThe following day, the EU suspended funding to its Water Towers Protection and Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Programme.\n\nOn 22 January 2018, a court in Eldoret issued an injunction requiring the government to stop the evictions until the Sengwer community's case is heard on 27 February 2018.\n"}
{"id": "10786621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10786621", "title": "Skomantas of Sudovia", "text": "Skomantas of Sudovia\n\nSkomantas, or Komantas (in Yotvingian *\"Gomants\" or *\"Komants\", in Ruthenian \"Komat\", in Latin \"Koommat\", in German \"Skomand\" and \"Skumand\"; ca. 1225(?) – after 1285) was a powerful duke and pagan priest of the Sudovians/Yotvingians, one of the early Baltic tribes (according to historian S. C. Rowell and some other researchers, this duke of Sudovia seems to be identical to Skalmantas, the supposed progenitor of Gediminas' dynasty, the Gediminids). He was at the height of his power during the 1260s and 1270s.\n\nSkomantas is first mentioned by Peter von Dusburg during the Great Prussian Uprising (1260–1274) as a leader of the 1263 raid on Chełmno, a stronghold of the Teutonic Knights. He also led campaigns against Pinsk and other Slavic territories and therefore could not fully support the uprising. After the uprising Skomantas, with help from the Lithuanians, led 4,000 men against the Teutonic Knights. However, the Old Prussians and other Balts were losing their power. Skomantas' estate was devastated in 1280–1281 and he escaped with three sons, Rukals, Gedetes and Galms, to Black Ruthenia, controlled at that time by the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. However, he soon returned, was baptized in the Roman Catholic rite, and acknowledged the superiority of the Knights. Skomantas went on to lead armies on behalf of the Knights and was awarded lands within Prussia. His tribe lost the fight against the Knights and did not survive as an entity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3626208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626208", "title": "Sled Reynolds", "text": "Sled Reynolds\n\nPaul \"Sled\" Reynolds, sometimes credited as Paul C. Reynolds, Paul Reynolds, Slad Reynolds, or Sled Reynolds, is an animal trainer, best known for his work in film.\n"}
{"id": "40472995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40472995", "title": "Tony Gaskins", "text": "Tony Gaskins\n\nTony Gaskins is a motivational speaker, author and life coach. Having appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show, The Tyra Banks Show and TBN's 700 Club. He speaks on various topics including business, success and self-development but is most known for his love and relationship advice for men which has garnered him a large Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter following. In 2011, he made Under30Ceo's Top 50 Most Motivational People on the Web.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11051705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11051705", "title": "Tróndur í Gøtu", "text": "Tróndur í Gøtu\n\nTróndur í Gøtu (Old Icelandic: Þrándr í Götu, Old Norse Þrǫ́ndr í Gǫtu) (ca. 945 – 1035) was a viking from the Faroe Islands. He and Sigmundur Brestisson are the central figures in the \"Færeyinga saga\", which tells the early history of the Faroe Islands and the coming of Christianity to the islands, which Tróndur opposed.\n\nChapter three of the Saga describes Tróndur as having \"a shock head of red hair, and . . . freckled of face and right grim of look\", features which were inherent to Faroese, who are said to have descended from Thorstan the Red's daughter.\n\nTróndur í Gøtu lived on the island of Eysturoy, in his father's home Gøta, which was named for Torbjørn Gøtuskegg's nickname \"Gatebeard\". Initially Tróndur and his brother Thorlac drew lots to decide who should inherit the estate. After losing, Thorlac went to live in neighbouring islands with his wife. Chapter 35 of the saga tells that all siblings eventually lived together at Gøta, with their respective children. This same chapter explains that Thorlac had two sons, Sigurd (a strong man with blond curly hair) and Thord (also called \"The Low\" for his stout yet strong figure); Tróndur's sister had a son known as \"Geat the Red\".\n\nTróndur opposed Christianization of the Faroes and pronounced a curse against the religion and Sigmundur, who was promulgating it. This is the subject of a Faroese poem by Janus Djurhuus, \"Gandkvæði Tróndar\".\n\nThe saying in Icelandic, \"vera einhverjum Þrándur í Götu\", (e. \"being someones\" Þrándur í Götu) or just \"að vera þrándur í götu\" (e. \"to be a\" þrándur í götu), means \"to be an obstacle to somebody\" (the original Þrándur himself probably unknown, to most Icelanders, let alone that Þrándur was viking, explaining why the word/he þrándur and götu may be commonly lower cased as in the latter example) because Þrándur opposed taxation of Olav the King (while Icelanders might think that þrándur means a literal obstacle, that happens to be in the street (icel. \"í götu\", note lower case).\n"}
{"id": "3317391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3317391", "title": "Uma Narayan", "text": "Uma Narayan\n\nUma Narayan (born 16 April 1958) is an Indian feminist scholar, and a Professor of Philosophy at Vassar College. \n\nShe is the author of \"Dislocating Cultures: Identities, Traditions and Third World Feminism\" in which Narayan disputes feminism as a solely Western notion and intrusion, while challenging assumptions that Indian feminism is based on Western models. Particularly, a notion of homogeneous, total culture is criticized through historical contextualization of nationalist uses and defenses of the Indian practices of \"sati\" and dowry murders, as well as food. The charges of \"Westernization\" on Indian feminism, based on the a-historical premises contradicted by her historical contextualization, are thus rejected by Narayan. Likewise, this historicization of the condition of Indian women is used to criticize radical feminist claims that all women everywhere are constituted by the same concerns and interests. These arguments align her with theorists such as Chandra Mohanty and Gayatri Spivak. \n\nRelated to her work in \"Dislocating Cultures\", Narayan has criticized culture-reductionist forms of postcolonial feminism which \"in attempting to take seriously these cultural differences...risk replacing gender-essentialist analyses with culturally essentialist analyses that replicate problematic colonialist notions about the cultural differences between 'Western culture' and 'non-Western cultures' and the women who inhabit them.\" She dubs this view of culture which covers up divisions and differences within 'Western' and 'non-Western' cultures the \"Package Picture of Cultures.\" This false view can be avoided, for instance, through historical analysis of the culture to be evaluated. \n\nShe has also worked in field of Indian legal studies. Her published work includes considerations of Bengal Narsing Rau's influence on the provisions of the Constitution of India and writing primers on Indian legal literature. \nNarayan coedited \"Reconstructing Political Theory: Feminist Perspectives\" with Mary L. Shanley, \"Having and Raising Children\" with Julia Bartkowiak and \"Decentering the Center: Philosophy for a Multicultural, Postcolonial, and Feminist World\" with Sandra Harding. She currently is a professor at Vassar College on the Andrew W. Mellon Chair of Humanities.\n\nNarayan received her B.A. in Philosophy from Bombay University and her M.A. in Philosophy from Pune University, India. She received her Ph.D. from Rutgers University in 1990.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8053616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8053616", "title": "Veronica Giuliani", "text": "Veronica Giuliani\n\nSaint Veronica Giuliani, O.S.C. Cap. (also \"Veronica de Julianis\"; December 27, 1660 – July 9, 1727), was an Italian Capuchin Poor Clares nun and mystic. She was canonized by Pope Gregory XVI in 1839.\n\nShe was born Orsola [Ursula] Giuliani at Mercatello in the Duchy of Urbino on December 27, 1660. Her parents were Francesco and Benedetta Mancini Giuliani. She was the youngest of seven sisters, three of whom embraced the monastic life.\n\nIt is told that at the age of three years Ursula supposedly began to show great compassion for the poor. She would set apart a portion of her food for them, and even part with her clothes when she met a poor child scantily clad. Her mother died when Ursula was seven years of age.\n\nWhen others did not readily join in her religious practices she was inclined to be dictatorial. At the age of 16, she experienced a vision which corrected this imperfection of character: she saw her own heart as a \"heart of steel\". In her writings she confesses that she took a certain pleasure in the more stately circumstances which her family adopted when her father was appointed superintendent of finance at Piacenza. When Veronica came of age, her father believed she should marry, and so he desired her to take part in the social activities of the young people. But she pleaded so earnestly with her father that, after much resistance, he finally permitted her to choose her own state in life.\n\nIn 1677, at the age of 17, Ursula was received into the monastery of the Capuchin Poor Clares in Città di Castello in Umbria, Italy, taking the name of Veronica in memory of the Passion. At the conclusion of the ceremony of her reception, the bishop said to the abbess: \"I commend this new daughter to your special care, for she will one day be a great saint.\"\n\nVeronica became absolutely submissive to the will of her spiritual directors, though her novitiate was marked by extraordinary interior trials and temptations to return to the world. In her first years in the monastery, she worked in the kitchen, infirmary and sacristy and also served as portress. At the age of 34, she was made novice mistress.\n\nFor fifty years, Ursula Giuliani lived as Sister Veronica in the Capuchin convent. With gritty determination tempered by humility, she led her sisters as novice mistress for thirty-four years and as abbess for eleven. St. Veronica governed the convent with obvious common sense and guided the novices with prudence. She would not allow them to read mystical books, requiring them instead to study books on Christian basics. In 1716, she was elected abbess. As a practical woman, she improved her sisters’ comfort by enlarging the convent rooms and having water piped inside.\n\nVeronica had a lifelong devotion to Christ crucified that eventually became manifested in physical signs. The marks of the crown of thorns appeared on her forehead in 1694 and the five wounds on her body in 1697. Veronica was humiliated by the stigmata itself and by her bishop’s rigorous testing of her experience. He removed the saint from ordinary community life and put her under constant observation. When he determined that the phenomena were authentic, he allowed her to return to normal convent life and continue her service to her sisters.\nShe died on July 9, 1727, at Città di Castello.\n\nAfter Veronica's death a figure of the Cross was supposedly found impressed upon her heart, and her body has been noted as being incorrupt. \nShe was beatified by Pope Pius VII on June 17, 1804, and was canonized by Pope Gregory XVI on May 26, 1839. She is usually represented in art crowned with thorns and embracing the Cross.\n\nSaint Veronica Giuliani's \"rebirth\" in Lebanon began with the devotion of a Lebanese religious, Brother Emmanuel, who came upon her writings in 1994 while serving at a monastery in Deir al-Zour, Syria. Brother Emmanuel founded a religious order, the Little Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, in 2015 and he believes Saint Veronica \"has chosen Lebanon as a country to begin, or to intensify, her mission because Lebanon loves Our Lady a lot and has a very deep relationship with Mary.\" As of 2016, there are seven nuns and four brothers in the order.\n\nBanners throughout the country proclaimed \"A saint rises up in Lebanon!\" heralding the first church in the world outside of Italy dedicated to St. Veronica Giuliani. The newly built church, in Ksaibe, Lebanon, was consecrated on July 9, 2016, the saint's feast day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34085571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34085571", "title": "William Charles Nation", "text": "William Charles Nation\n\nWilliam Charles Nation (18 February 1840 – 29 May 1930) was a New Zealand printer, journalist, newspaper proprietor, spiritualist and tree planter.\n"}
{"id": "48982178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48982178", "title": "Xenagoras", "text": "Xenagoras\n\nXenagoras () was the name of a number of men of classical antiquity:\n\n"}
{"id": "8579202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8579202", "title": "Yeung Kwong", "text": "Yeung Kwong\n\nYeung Kwong, GBM (1926 – 16 May 2015) was a Hong Kong communist trade unionist and activist. His daughter studied in Britain and married a British man. He was leader of the 1967 Leftist Riots against British rule in Hong Kong. Yeung organised serious terrorist attacks in Hong Kong, including assassinations and the setting up of bombs, which lead to the death and injury of many people in Hong Kong.\n\nBorn in 1926, Yeung became a member of the Hong Kong Tramways Workers Union in 1948 and led strikes by Hong Kong Tramway's fare conductors the following year.\n\nHe served as chairman of the Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions (FTU), the largest pro-CPC labour union in Hong Kong, from 1962 to 1980, and then its president between 1980 and 1988. From 1973 to 1987, he was a local deputy to the National People's Congress.\n\nDuring the Hong Kong 1967 Leftist riots, which was inspired by the Cultural Revolution and escalated from a labour dispute at a plastic-flower factory in San Po Kong, Yeung served as director of the Hong Kong and Kowloon Committee for Anti-Hong Kong British Persecution Struggle. Thousands were injured and 51 died, 15 of whom were killed in bombings planted by the Leftists.\n\nNominated by the FTU, then Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa awarded the Grand Bauhinia Medal, the highest honour in Hong Kong, to Yeung for his \"outstanding contribution to the labour movement and labour welfare in Hong Kong and for his dedicated community service\" in 2001.\n\nThe award ceremony was held on 13 October 2001, and controversy immediately rose after the announcement, with many people believing that Tung, who was seeking re-election at the time, was pandering to the FTU, which is an important bloc of vote in the unique Chief Executive election system in Hong Kong. Yeung had in 1996 and 2002 sat on the Election Committee that elected Tung as Chief Executive. Some critics asserted that Yeung was not suitable for the highest honour of the land. Critics argued the event was a symbolic gesture for approval of the 1967 riot. Criticisms also came from victims of the riots and officials responsible for putting down the unrest, but the government declined to say if Yeung's \"contributions\" included what he did during the protests.\n\n\"It is not a matter of who encouraged this kind of action [bomb attacks]. Oppression will result in popular revolt,\" Yeung responded, also replying that deaths and injuries were inevitable in the struggle when asked if he felt sorry for the victims. \n\nIn the morning of 16 May 2015, Yeung died at the Prince of Wales Hospital in Sha Tin after he underwent a heart operation. Acting Chief Executive Carrie Lam sent her condolences to Yeung's family and praised the man for his contributions to the labour movement. Hong Kong politicians Chief Executive CY Leung, the Secretary for Labour and Welfare Matthew Cheung and other senior officials including the Director of Beijing’s Liaison Office Zhang Xiaoming attended the funeral on 14 June 2015.\n\nProtesters gathered outside his funeral with banners in the memory of those who died at the hands of the leftists during the riots. Some brought champagne to celebrate his death; others brought pineapples (a metaphor and Cantonese slang for bombs and grenades) and cursed him to go to hell.\n\n"}
