{"id": "10791266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10791266", "title": "1563 in music", "text": "1563 in music\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225654", "title": "1718 in literature", "text": "1718 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1718.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1570433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570433", "title": "2006 in music", "text": "2006 in music\n\nThis is a list of notable events in music that took place in the year 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1067837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067837", "title": "A Journey Beyond the Three Seas", "text": "A Journey Beyond the Three Seas\n\nA Journey Beyond the Three Seas (, \"Khozheniye za tri morya\") is a Russian literary monument in the form of travel notes, made by a merchant from Tver, Afanasiy Nikitin during his journey to India in 1466–1472.\n\n\"A Journey Beyond the Three Seas\" was the first Russian literary work to depict a strictly commercial, non-religious trip. Prior texts were pilgrimage texts, which depicted travel to holy sites and were more standardized, dry and conventional. The author visited the Caucasus, Persia, India and the Crimea. However, most of the notes are dedicated to India, its political structure, trade, agriculture, customs and ceremonies. The work is full of lyrical digressions and autobiographic passages. There is a strong individual, authorial presence. Its last page is in Turkic and the broken Arabic language; these are, in fact, typical Muslim prayers, indicating that Nikitin might have converted to Islam while he was in India, although his lapse from Christianity bothered him as he mentions several times in the text.\n\nOn the other hand, however, Nikitin all time prays to Blessed Virgin Mary as Theotokos, Christian Orthodox Saints, tries to observe Christian rites, and so on.\nThe author did not make his way back to his native land; he died on the trip home. \nIn 1475, the manuscript made its way to Moscow into the hands of a government official Vasili Mamyrev. Later on, it was incorporated into the annalistic code of 1489, the Sofia Second Chronicle and the Lvov Chronicle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8423183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8423183", "title": "Amy Barnes", "text": "Amy Barnes\n\nAmy Barnes is a fictional character from the Channel 4 soap opera \"Hollyoaks\", played by Ashley Slanina-Davies. She debuted on-screen during the episode airing on 14 November 2005. Amy was created by executive producer David Hanson and Slanina-Davies was offered the role whilst looking for work as an extra. In 2009, Slanina-Davies stated that she would be lost without the role and confirmed her loyalty to the serial. In July 2010, it was announced that Slanina-Davies would be leaving the show. However it was revealed that she was back filming and staying in the serial in 2011. Amy's storylines have included underage pregnancy which resulted in the birth of daughter Leah Barnes and the subject of domestic abuse in her relationship with Ste Hay, portrayed by Kieron Richardson respectively. Whilst filming the storyline Slanina-Davies cut her long hair off for charity and this was scripted into the storyline.\n\nAmy has also been part of a storyline which saw her pretending her daughter was suffering from leukaemia to scam money out of the community, off-screen this prompted Slanina-Davies to campaign for leukaemia and cancer charity CLIC Sargent and Women's Aid. The issue of post-natal depression has been portrayed following the birth of her second child Lucas Hay. Slanina-Davies has also revealed that she has conducted extensive research into all of her issue-lead storylines. In 2012, it was announced that Slanina-Davies would be written out of the serial. Amy departed on 8 August 2012. Amy returned for guest appearances throughout 2013, 2014 and 2015, before returning to the show on a permanent basis in August 2016.\n\nIn January 2017, it was revealed that Amy would be departing later in the year in a \"whodunit\" storyline which would see the character killed off after being murdered. She made her final appearance as a corpse on 29 March 2017, however continued to appear in flashback appearances throughout the storyline. Amy's funeral was held on 25 April 2017, with characters such as her mother, Kathy (Sarah Jane Buckley), and Zoe Carpenter (Zoë Lister), returning for her funeral. On 4 September 2017, Ste's fiancé, Harry Thompson (Parry Glasspool), was named as the culprit who killed Amy. However, on 8 September 2017, it was revealed that Amy was still alive after Harry left, meaning he was not responsible. Amy appeared again for a final time in a flashback episode which aired on 10 October 2017, where her new husband Ryan Knight (Duncan James) strangled her, revealing him as her killer.\n\nIn 2005 executive producer David Hanson created the Barnes family which included Amy. Actress Ashley Slanina-Davies was looking for work as an extra at the time, but her audition secured her the regular role of Amy. She made her first appearance in November 2005. In 2009 Slanina-Davies admitted she was committed to the serial, stating she \"would be at a loss\" without the role. In 2010, it was announced that Slanina-Davies would leave later in the year. This was confirmed at the same time as Garnon Davies (Elliot Bevan), Glen Wallace (Malachy Fisher) and John Pickard (Dominic Reilly) announced their departures. A spokesperson for the serial stated: \"We're all sad to be losing yet more friends from the cast [...] Nothing's been firmed up yet storyline-wise but one thing's for sure, they'll all be memorable exits.\" In late 2010 it was revealed that Davies was still filming with Hollyoaks and would remain in the serial in 2011.\n\nBBC America have branded Amy as the \"Bad Seed\" of the Barnes sisters. They also add: \"She's not mean-spirited, but she's known for trouble-making.\" In her later years she transformed into a single and more confident woman. She is described on the show's official website as not \"afraid to stick up for herself\".\n\nIn 2007 after Amy resumes her relationship with Ste Hay (Kieron Richardson) and they move into their own flat, Ste became increasingly violent and started to hit Amy, which was the start of a domestic abuse storyline. Slanina-Davies conducted extensive research into the plot During an interview with LINC Online she stated: \"I research pretty much everything I’m involved in. It's important to be realistic because there’ll be people out there watching who are hoping to relate to your character. I think if you didn’t research properly you’d only end up alienating the people you want to try and empathise with.\" One segment of the storyline saw Ste cutting off her ponytail. In real life Slanina-Davies had cut her hair short to raise money for charity of this she stated: \"When I had my hair cut short in Hollyoaks I did that to raise money for CLIC Sargant, which is a charity helping children with cancer and leukaemia.\"\n\nAt this time, Amy fell pregnant, but was unsure whether to keep the baby. Slanina-Davies stated that she loved portraying pregnancy in the serial and commented on Amy's dilemma of abortion stating: \"I have absolutely no opinion on whether Amy should keep her baby, because I think it's a woman's right to choose.\" Speaking about 2008 as a whole for Ste and Amy, producer Bryan Kirkwood stated: \"I'm really proud of the way Kieron Richardson has portrayed Ste, dare I say sympathetically, so we can understand but not condone his behaviour. He and Ashley [Slanina Davies] are delivering brilliant performances as two young kids portray the reality of so many 16- and 17-year-olds as they struggle to make a life for themselves and repeat the mistakes of their parents. It's a very real situation and some of their scenes still to come are downright shocking. It's set to become a very big story as the year progresses.\" Ste later takes a violent outburst to far and a spokesperson for the serial described it as \"the final straw\" for Amy. She is later shown leaving Ste after finally realising she needs to accept help from those closest to her. Slanina-Davies and Richardson then fronted a charity campaign called \"Expect Respect\" in order to combat domestic violence. At the time Slanina-Davies released a statement reading: \"Domestic abuse takes many forms, it can be physical, sexual or mental. In Hollyoaks, my character Amy faced this in her relationship with Ste and I know from this storyline why it can be difficult to leave an abusive relationship.\"\n\nIn 2010 Amy was involved in a special week of episodes dubbed \"fire week\". Amy was described as battling to save her two children Leah Barnes (Jessica Croft-Lane) and Lucas Hay (Jude Hawley) in the blaze with executive producer Paul Marquess stating: \"I will say is that it will be shocking.\" In early 2011 Marquess revealed that Amy would be staying in the show permanently and be involved in a serious storyline in which Leanne Holiday (Jessica Forrest) would do some \"terrible things\" to Amy. Executive producer Gareth Phillips later revealed that there was never any plans for Amy to leave. They filmed alternative endings to confuse viewers and added they had been \"mischievous\" in doing so. He said it made the serial more exciting and that they had lots of storylines for Amy and Lee because they \"make a great pairing\".\n\nAmy was written out of the series in 2012. Series producer Emma Smithwick told Digital Spy's Kilkelly that Amy often did not \"care for herself and her own wellbeing\" because she was too busy helping Ste and her children. Smithwick and her colleagues had wondered what would happen if Amy was no longer in the show. They wanted explore Ste's character without having the stability that Amy provides him. But Smithwick noted that she \"loves\" Amy and the decision was just \"dictated by story\". The storyline played out when Amy \"goes on a wild night out\", gets drunk and kisses Ste. Richardson told a writer from \"Inside Soap\" that \"when Ste comes to her rescue, Amy's emotions are all over the place after splitting up with Ally. So after Ste shows her a little kindness, she gets the wrong idea and goes in for a snog.\" Amy is \"mortified\" by her actions and has to rethink her life in Hollyoaks. She decides to move away to study taking Leah and Lucas with her. Richardson explained that his character has done everything for his family and to not have Amy and the children in his life is a \"massive thing to get used to.\" Amy made her final on-screen appearance during the episode broadcast on 8 August 2012.\n\nAmy returned in February 2013 for two episodes and the scenes will feature Ste, Brendan, Leah and Lucas. Slanina-Davies filmed the scenes in December 2012. In October 2014, Digital Spy's Sophie Dainty announced that Amy would feature in episodes airing later that month. Further storyline developments were announced seeing Ste's abusive stepfather Terry Hay (Conor Ryan) befriending Amy. In April 2016 it was announced that Slanina-Davies had reprised her role for a guest appearance. The character returns to \"Hollyoaks\" as part of Ste's topical storyline focusing on homelessness.\n\nThe following month it was announced that Slanina-Davies had agreed to return to the show on a permanent basis. Duncan James was cast to play Amy's new love interest Ryan Knight. Writer planned to pitch Ryan, a \"professional, stable and aspirational\" man against Amy's ex-partner Ste. Of her return the actress stated \"I couldn't be more excited to bring Amy back to Hollyoaks [...] I think Amy might find herself stuck between a rock and a hard place with those two!\"\n\nIn January 2017, it was announced that the show planned to kill Amy off. Kilkelly from Digital Spy reported that Amy's partner Ryan would return home and find her dead in a \"devastating\" and \"dark\" storyline. He added that the storyline would create dramatic scenes involving Amy's relatives. Slanina-Davies made her final appearance as Amy on 29 March 2017, where her body was discovered by Ryan and her father Mike Barnes (Tony Hirst).\n\nAmy first appears being dragged to her sister Sarah Barnes' (Loui Batley) swimming training, where she is bored and jealous of Sarah's success. Amy befriends Michaela McQueen (Hollie-Jay Bowes), Jamie \"Fletch\" Fletcher (Sam Darbyshire) and Josh Ashworth (Sonny Flood) and begins a relationship with Ste Hay (Kieron Richardson). Ste manipulates Amy into sleeping with him, resulting in their eventual break-up. On her 15th birthday, Amy meets a boy called Billy, who she has a one-night stand. Michaela supports Amy upon Amy discovering her pregnancy. Amy and Ste reunite and he takes her joyriding, which leads to a crash, culminating in Ste fleeing and Amy is partially injured. Amy dumps Ste to date Josh despite her father Mike Barnes (Tony Hirst) disapproving of them. They decide to flee Hollyoaks together however, after weeks, the couple decide to return home. Josh attacks Mike with a house brick, which ends Josh's relationship with Amy. She develops labour and delivers her daughter, Leah Barnes (Ela-May Demircan) on her kitchen floor, to the surprise of Sarah and Mike. Amy's mother Kathy Barnes (Sarah Jane Buckley) decides to raise Leah as her own child, ashamed of her daughter's underage pregnancy. However, Amy grows close to Leah and decides she wants to be her mother. Kathy kidnaps Leah and is eventually sectioned.\nSte returns to Hollyoaks following a stint in a young offenders' institute. Mike is angry, but Amy lies that he is Leah's father and they eventually move into their own flat. Ste begins to steal to help fund the family, but begins lying that Leah has leukaemia for money. An angry Amy decides to leave Ste, but agrees to continue lying until they have enough money to support them. After the secret is revealed, Ste ultimately assaults Amy and she is rejected by her family. Ste's violent outbursts continue, with him cutting off her long ponytail on an occasion. After Amy is threatened by Ste again, she lies that she is pregnant. After admitting her lie, he apologises, seeing what he has caused. Soon after, Amy unearths her actual pregnancy and dumps Ste once again after he attacks her.\n\nSte begins anger management and Amy gives birth to Lucas Hay (William Hall). She resumes her previous relationship with Josh, later becoming engaged. However, she suffers from post-natal depression and leaves to stay with her grandmother for several months, whilst there she ends her relationship with Josh once more, eventually returning at Sarah's funeral. Ste tries to help Amy with the depression and she eventually warms to her children again. Amy and Ste become friends and she moves back in with him to be a proper mother to Leah and Lucas. Amy initially believes that Zoe Carpenter (Zoë Lister) has murdered her sister Sarah, along with Lydia Hart's (Lydia Kelly) help she tries to expose her. Zoe later exposes Lydia as Sarah's killer and she reconciles with Zoe. She begins life as a student and starts dating Olly Larkin (Oliver Watton), who tries to force her into having sex until Ste saves her.\n\nAmy becomes friends with fellow students Jem Costello (Helen Russell-Clarke) and Lee Hunter (Alex Carter). Lee and Amy begin having feelings for each other, despite his fiancée Leanne Holiday (Jessica Forrest). Leanne's jealousy continues until Lee eventually admits his feelings for Amy and they decide to be together. Amy discovers Ste and Brendan Brady's (Emmett J. Scanlan) relationship and is angry when she realises Brendan is abusing Ste. Brendan threatens Amy numerous times for her to keep her mouth shut. Gabby Sharpe (Phina Oruche) asks Amy to babysit for her, a fire is started in Il Gnosh downstairs by Dominic Reilly (John Pickard). Amy, Leah and Lucas are trapped upstairs, Amy almost dies until she is saved by Steph Roach (Carley Stenson), who later dies in the fire. Amy recovers in hospital and tells Ste she thinks Brendan caused the fire. Ste doesn't believe Brendan started it at first, but he then hears a voice mail from Amy saying she's scared because Brendan threatened her, which was on the night the fire started, Brendan then threatened Amy once again in hospital. Frightened, Amy tells Lee she is being transferred to a hospital in Manchester to be near Mike and they share an emotional goodbye. Lee later finds a letter from Amy explaining that they cannot be together, unaware that it was actually Leanne who wrote it.\n\nAmy ruins Lee and Leanne's wedding when she learns Leanne forged the letter. Amy discovers that Rae Wilson (Alice Barlow) is pregnant with Ste's child. Amy convinces Brendan to end his affair with Ste. Amy tells Bombhead (Lee Otway) that her near death in the fire and losing Lee took a burden on her life. She got a job as a teaching assistant at Hollyoaks High School, and befriends Pete Hamill (Peter Mitchell). Amy, Leah, Lucas and Lee successfully audition for a sausage advert campaign. She clashes with Leanne, when she leaves her Leanne twists her ankle. Amy is arrested after Leanne claims Amy assaulted her. The police decide to take the complaint no further.\n\nLeanne starts vandalising Amy's sausage posters placed around the village. Leanne follows Amy and Lee to the filming of a new advert. She attempts to ruin the set by pushing Lee down a ski slope and later climbs into bed with him. Leanne tries to convince Ste that Amy is mentally ill like Kathy. After an argument with Amy, Leanne is found injured at the bottom of the SU bar stairs. She accuses Amy of assault and she is charged. Ruby Button (Anna Shaffer) then bullies and taunts Amy in the classroom. Amy then cries due to being bullied by Ruby, forcing Pete to make Amy take leave. Amy is faced wirth a prison sentence and repeatedly argues with Leanne in public. She later breaks down and ends her relationship with Lee over trust issues. Leanne drops the charges and Amy reconciles with Lee. He buys Amy a new car and Dodger Savage (Danny Mac) agrees to give her driving lessons. She soon finds herself attracted to Dodger. She drunkenly has sex with Dodger, but insists it is a one-night stand. She reconciles with Lee, he later finds out she slept with Dodger. They break up after Lee broadcasts details of their personal life over student radio. Amy realises Lee loves her and proposes to him.\n\nLee gets a job offer in New York and Amy decides to go with him, taking her kids with her. Ste says no, making Lee quit his job in New York. Amy then has a go at Ste, saying everything she has ever wanted has been ruined by him. Amy then tells Lee to go to New York because it's his dream, but decides not to go with him, staying in Chester. A couple of days later, serial killer Silas Blissett (Jeff Rawle) puts a pawn chess piece into her flat and becomes one of his targets, making Lynsey Nolan (Karen Hassan) guess who his next victim will be however it is later revealed did not intend to kill Amy. Amy takes waitress job at \"College Coffee\". She begins a relationship with Ally Gorman (Dan O'Connor). They argue when she kisses Dodger but he forgives her. She then suspects him visiting lapdancing clubs, but he claims it is to protect the girls from danger. Ally kisses Ash Kane (Holly Weston) and they separate. Amy gets drunk and tries to kiss Ste. He tells her that they spend too much time together. She decides to leave with Lucas and Leah to study in Manchester.\n\nAmy returns when Kevin Foster (Elliot Balchin) tells her that Ste is back together with Brendan. She argues with Ste and he becomes violent grabbing her arm. Amy takes Leah and Lucas home with her not wanting Brendan around them. When Brendan is arrested she returns to visit Ste. She later lets Ste look after his children more often but bans him when he becomes addicted to drugs. In 2014, Amy returns and lets Ste see his kids. When she finds out Ste is with drugs, she bans him. Amy and Mike return to the village in search of Ste. Amy leaves when she discovers Ste has had a drugs relapse.\n\nIn August 2016, Ste goes to Amy's home and punches Ryan Knight (Duncan James) when he sees him playing with Leah, not realising he is Amy's fiancée. Following this, Amy returns to live in the village with Ryan, Leah and Lucas, engaging in a custody battle with Ste and his boyfriend Harry Thompson (Parry Glasspool). Due to Ste's past convictions and addictions, Amy and Ryan are granted full custody, with Ste only being allowed visits supervised by Amy or Ryan. Following an argument on New Year's Eve 2016, Ryan has sex with Mercedes McQueen (Jennifer Metcalfe), which is filmed by Mercedes' cousin Goldie McQueen (Chelsee Healey). Ryan is desperate to keep this from Amy, however at their engagement party in January 2017, Harry inadvertently gives Amy Goldie's mobile phone, and she shows the footage of Ryan and Mercedes kissing to everybody. She then dumps Ryan and cancels the engagement. Ste later persuades Amy to reconcile with Ryan and organise the wedding, which is held in March 2017, and Ryan and Amy successfully get married. Ryan then asks Amy to move to America with him with Leah and Lucas, which she is reluctant to do at first because of Ste. However, an argument between Ste and Harry at the wedding reception leads to Amy's dress getting ruined, she agrees to leave for America with Ryan and the children. Leah and Lucas accidentally reveal this to Ste, who organises a quick custody hearing, where Ryan and Amy are granted to move to America with the children, devastating Ste.\n\nThat same night, Amy is murdered by an unknown assailant. Mike and Ryan return home to find Amy lying lifeless on the floor. The whole village is shocked and saddened by the death of the young wife and mother. There are five suspects: Ste, Harry, Ryan, James Nightingale (Gregory Finnegan), and DS Gavin Armstrong (Andrew Hayden-Smith). Ste is the prime suspect because of Amy taking Leah and Lucas away from him. Harry's motive is that he would do anything for Ste. It does not seem at first that Ryan has a motive, but later on it is revealed Ryan had cheated on Amy that night with a man named Kyle Kelly (Adam Rickitt). James did not know Amy personally, but he hates Ste for ruining his relationship with John Paul McQueen (James Sutton) and it is possible he wanted to frame Ste for the murder as revenge. DS Armstrong had stalked several young, blonde attractive women around the village and it is later revealed Amy was one of them.\n\nSte is arrested and charged with the murder. Ste suffered a blackout at that night so he cannot defend his whereabouts. During Ste's trial, he discovers Harry accidentally murdered Amy during an altercation when Harry tried to stop her from taking the kids to America. In a 8 September 2017 flashback, Harry argues with Amy and she falls and hits her head. Harry flees the scene without calling for help. However, it is revealed in another flashback that Amy was actually still alive after Harry left and another person had killed her. \n\nOn 10 October 2017, it is revealed that it was Ryan who killed Amy. As seen in a flashback, Ryan arrives home and Amy confronts him about cheating on her with a man. She tells Ryan he left his phone on and she got a voicemail in which she heard everything. She threatens to tell the whole village he is gay and Ryan murders her in a fit of rage.\n\nAmy was nominated for \"Best Couple\" for her relationship with Josh, at the 2007 Inside Soap Awards. Soap opera reporting website Holy Soap have described Amy stating: \"Amy seemed like the nice girl but was the first to go off the rails after her parents' break-up.\" They recall Amy's most memorable moment as being: \"A drunk and angry Ste lashed out at Amy and she became a battered spouse.\" Cancer charity CLIC Sargent have branded Amy a \"troubled teenager\". In 2008 the British Government produced a report detailing how Soap Opera's help educate children about sex. They used Amy as an example. They said she could help parents talk about the realities of having a child at a young age. Tess Larnacraft from \"TV Buzz\" said that the publication's staff could not feel sorry for Amy when she sleeps with Dodger. She also opined that Amy would be better off having a relationship with Dodger, instead of Lee. Daniel Kilkelly from Digital Spy branded Amy a \"fan favourite\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3779377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3779377", "title": "Australia Council for the Arts", "text": "Australia Council for the Arts\n\nThe Australia Council for the Arts, informally known as the Australia Council, is the official arts council or arts funding body of the Government of Australia\n\nThe Australia Council (the Council) is the Australian Government’s principal arts funding and advisory body. The Council is the national advocate for the arts and its purpose is to champion and invest in Australian arts. This national leadership role is achieved by supporting and building Australia’s arts ecology by fostering excellence in the arts and increasing national and international engagement with Australian arts. \n\nAustralia Council was formed in 1967 by Prime Minister Harold Holt as a body for the public funding of the arts and was given statutory authority in March 1975 by the \"Australia Council Act\". The Council's predecessor, the Australian Council for the Arts was established in 1968 by Prime Minister John Gorton as a division of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. The Council then incorporated other government projects, such as the Commonwealth Literary Fund and the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board. It operates in co-ordination with the various state government agencies. \n\nThe Council’s operations were independently reviewed in 2012, and the \"Australia Council Act 2013\" (the Act) commenced on 1 July 2013.\n\nIn early 2014 federal Ministers Brandis and Turnbull told artists at the Sydney Biennale that they were ungrateful and selfish to protest about the role of Transfield in Nauru. In December 2014, Arts Minister, George Brandis, took away a large portion of literature funding from Australia Council.\n\nIn May 2015, Brandis cut $26 million a year for four years from Australia Council arts funding, a third of its arts funding, receiving significant criticism from the arts community. The money was reallocated to a new program, the National Program for Excellence in the Arts (NPEA). NPEA in turn was criticised by many artists and arts organisations for lacking the \"arms-length\" funding principles that had applied to the relationship between the government and Australia Council since its inception in the 1970s. These principles have traditionally had bipartisan support. Brandis was criticised previously for giving Melbourne classical music record label Melba Recordings a $275,000 grant outside of the usual funding and peer-assessment processes. Brandis's changes to funding arrangements, including the quarantining of the amount received by Australia's 28 major performing arts companies, were widely seen to disadvantage the small-to-medium arts sector and independent artists. Following Malcolm Turnbull's successful spill of the leadership of the Liberal party in September 2015, Brandis was replaced as arts minister by Mitch Fifield. In November Fifield gave back $8 million a year for four years to Australia Council, changed the NPEA to the Catalyst Fund, and stressed it would have a focus on smaller arts projects. The arts community was not impressed by the changes.\n\nAs a result of the reduced funding, Australia Council cancelled project funding rounds for small groups and individuals in 2015 and then cut funding to over 60 arts organisations across the country in May 2016. \n\nIn addition, Education Minister Simon Birmingham indicated that the government is considering cutting funding to students who wish to undertake creative arts training, saying that he believes training in the creative arts is a ‘lifestyle’ choice and cannot lead to a satisfactory career or any economic outcome, and that he intends to cut loan support for students to undertake this form of education and training, cutting loans for over 50 arts training programs, including programs in ceramics, photography, dance, acting, animation, all forms of design, circus, music, film, fashion and journalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "53518583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53518583", "title": "Beatriz Helena Ramos", "text": "Beatriz Helena Ramos\n\nBeatriz Helena Ramos (born August 24, 1971 in Caracas, Venezuela) is an artist, entrepreneur, film director, producer and illustrator. She is the founder of Dancing Diablo Studio in New York and the inventor of Dada.nyc, a visual conversation platform where people speak to each other through drawings.\n\nRamos studied illustration at the Instituto de Diseño de Caracas and moved to New York in 1996 where she started working as a digital artist coloring comics. In 1997, Ramos began publishing editorial illustrations for The New York Times commissioned by legendary art director Steven Heller. That same year she was hired at MTV Animation and it was the beginning of a prolific career in animation. Later on, she went to work on TV animated series for Disney, MTV and Cartoon Network. In 2002 she founded Dancing Diablo Studio.\n\n\n\nRamos decided to open the studio in January 2002, a few months after September 11, in the midst of a recession in New York. By April she had a six figure contract with 4Kids TV. \"Brooklyn, New York is the home of a newly formed animation studio called Dancing Diablo. The studio set up shop in January 2002, and has already taken on some high profile projects, including work on Fox Kids' upcoming series Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.\"\n\nRamos and her business partner Diego Sanchez decided to open a sister office in Caracas, Venezuela in 2005.\n\nAs creative director of the studio, she is responsible for the fresh and original style that characterizes Dancing Diablo. Ramos has directed more than a hundred commercials and short films for TV and the web. Her work has been recognized at prestigious festivals around the world, including Ottawa International Animation Film Festival, Anima mundi Animation Festival in Brazil, ASIFA-East Animation Festival in New York, and Pictoplasma Character Festival in Berlin, among others. \"Cheesy Breadville\", a short film Ramos directed for PBS was recognized as one of the best short films of all time at the New York International Children's Film Festival. In 2009 Dancing Diablo got an Emmy recognition for its contribution to the Emmy Award winning program Between the Lions, a children’s literacy TV series broadcast by PBS Kids.\n\nRamos' work as a color and animation expert has been mentioned in several books including \"Color: Messages and Meanings\" by Leatrice Eiseman, \"Becoming a Digital Designer: A Guide to Careers in Web, Video, Broadcast\" By Steven Heller & David Womack.“Total Animation” by Judith Salavetz and Spencer Drate and \"Your Career in Animation\" By David B. Levy. It has also been feature in industry publications such as Creativity Magazine, Advertising Age, How Magazine, Animation Magazine, among others.\n\nRamos is currently a mentor at the Founder Institute and a frequent speaker at business conferences. She occasionally writes articles about entrepreneurship. Most recently she published \"Why Entrepreneurs Shouldn’t Waste Time On Personal Branding\" \"Fast Company\".\n\n\n\"I created Dada because I felt there wasn't any space in the internet that was made in the artists' terms. \"I've always communicated visually so I asked myself how Facebook would have looked like if it was created by artists, how would a status update be like, how would you respond to someone 's post creatively\".\n\n\"“DADA is the place where visual people draw together”—or so says the site’s Twitter account. But it’s more than that. Here, you can share visual conversations with other artists and creative. Make a drawing, and anyone in the world can reply with another drawing. It’s a spectacular way to connect, inspire creativity, and explore the way minds work together.\" \"How Design Magazine\".\n\n\"DADA is strongly building on equally strong foundations from creator Beatriz Helena Ramos -who is a prolific illustrator for the likes of the New York Times, Disney and MTV\" \"Digital Arts\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15615888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15615888", "title": "Book folding", "text": "Book folding\n\nBook folding is the stage of the book production process in which the pages of the book are folded after printing and before binding.\n\nUntil the middle of the 19th century, book folding was done by hand, and was a trade. In the 1880s and 1890s, book folding machines by Brown and Dexter came onto the market, and by the 1910s hand-folding was rare, with one publisher declaring them to be \"practically obsolete\" in 1914.\n\nThe folding process is also necessary to produce print products other than books—for instance mailings, magazines, leaflets etc.\n\nTwo main types of mechanisms are commonly employed in folding machines: buckle folders and knife folders.\n\nIn a buckle folder, the paper is first passed through 2 spinning rollers, which feed the paper into a pair of guide plates that redirect the paper at a slight angle, bending the paper. At the far end of the guide plates is a \"paper stop\". As the rollers continue to spin, the paper continues to slide in between the guides until it hits the paper stop, then, having nowhere else to go, buckles at the interface between the rollers and the angled guides. As the rollers continue to spin, the buckle increases, until it is eventually caught by a pair of \"nip\" rollers, which pull the buckle in and compresses and flattens it into a neat crease.\n\nAdjusting the paper stop in a buckle folder determines where the fold will be placed. Also, a buckle folder may contain only 3 rollers, with one shared by both the input rollers and the nip rollers.\n\nAlthough buckle folders are fast, simple, efficient, and have small folding tolerances, they are not suitable for substrate of very low (<40g/m²) or very heavy paper grammage (>120g/m²).\n\nIn a knife folder, a sheet of paper is fed horizontally over 2 unpowered rollers until it hits a paper stop, at which point a dull blade pushes down on the paper and in between the 2 rollers to create the fold.\n\nAlthough the knife folder is slower than buckle folders, it is more precise and can handle extreme grammages very well. It also has small folding tolerances, but is a more complex machine.\n\nFolding a paper more than once in the same direction (i.e. with parallel creases) is called parallel folding. Common examples of this are the half fold, letter fold, gate fold, and Z-fold.\n\nA cross fold is when a paper is folded once, then rotated 90 degrees and folded again. The creases therefore cross each other at right angles. The most basic cross fold is the French fold, or right-angle fold. Other examples include the 16-page broadside and the 12-page letter.\n\n"}
{"id": "3557556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3557556", "title": "Burnishing (pottery)", "text": "Burnishing (pottery)\n\nBurnishing is a form of pottery treatment in which the surface of the pot is polished, using a hard smooth surface such as a wooden or bone spatula, smooth stones, plastic, or even glass bulbs, while it still is in a leathery 'green' state, i.e., before firing. After firing, the surface is extremely shiny. Often the whole outer surface of the pot is thus decorated, but in certain ceramic traditions there is 'pattern burnishing' where the outside and, in the case of open bowls, the inside, are decorated with burnished patterns in which some areas are left matte.\n\nThis technique can be applied to concrete masonry, creating a polished finish. \n\nBurnishing can also be applied to wood, by rubbing two pieces together along the grain. Hard woods take the treatment best. Burnishing does not protect the wood like a varnish does, but does impart a glossy sheen.\n\nIf one wood has a dye in it or is colored in some way, it may rub off onto the other wood. Burnishing can also apply to relief printing.\n"}
{"id": "14270386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270386", "title": "Butch Jamie", "text": "Butch Jamie\n\nButch Jamie is a gender-bending comedy film that premiered in July 2007 at Outfest: the Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Film Festival. Writer, director, and lead actress Michelle Ehlen won Outfest's Grand Jury Award for \"Outstanding Actress in a Feature Film.\" The film was produced independently through the filmmaker's production company, Ballet Diesel Films.\n\nThe film follows the story of Jamie, a struggling butch lesbian actress who gets cast as a man in a film. The main plot is a romantic comedy between Jamie's male alter-ego, \"Male Jamie,\" and Jill, a heterosexual woman on set. The film's subplots include Jamie's bisexual roommate Lola and her cat actor Howard, Lola's abrasive butch German girlfriend Andi, and Jamie's gay Asian friend David.\n\nButch Jamie utilizes deadpan humor through slapstick, irony, and satire. The film incorporates elements of slapstick physical comedy along with the irony of Jamie entering into a \"heterosexual\" relationship with an unknowing woman. As a satire, the film pokes fun at gender roles, social assumptions, stereotypes, and the politics of relationships.\nIn addition to gender roles and stereotypes, the film also satirizes the movie industry. This is reflected not only through Jamie's adventures, but also through Howard, the cat actor who Jamie has projected her competitive drive onto. Howard's owner, Lola, takes the cat's career very seriously, complete with professional head shots and a demo reel.\n\nWhile it's common to see comedies where men pose as women, female to male comedies are much less prominent. While the film is said to be a lesbian version of \"Tootsie\", the fact that it highlights a butch actress marks it as unique. Jamie's stereotypical butch masculinity, sarcasm, and cockiness are rarely seen in such prominence in female actors on-screen. Unlike Dustin Hoffman in \"Tootsie\", Jamie's career problems are not the result of a character flaw, but from a flaw in the way women are chosen to be represented.\n\nWriter/director/actor Michelle Ehlen is developing a sequel called \"Heterosexual Jill\". While \"Butch Jamie\" is a satire on gender, Ehlen proposes to have the sequel be a satire on sexuality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7968518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7968518", "title": "Cassina S.p.A.", "text": "Cassina S.p.A.\n\nCassina S.p. A. is an Italian manufacturing company specialised in the creation of high-end designer furniture.\n\nThe \"Amedeo Cassina\" company was created by the brothers Cesare and Umberto Cassina in 1927 in Meda, Brianza, (Northern Italy). After the war, Cassina continued to expand in size and fame, with products which covered a broad range of furniture including: chairs, armchairs, tables, sofas and beds.\n\nThe company's transformation was bolstered further by commissions for cruise ships, top end hotels and restaurants which accounted for a great part of the company's activity right up to the mid-sixties and beyond.\n\nIn 1964 the \"Cassina I Maestri\" (Cassina Masters) Collection was born, with the acquisition of the rights to products designed by Le Corbusier, Pierre Jeanneret and Charlotte Perriand, the most important names of 20th century design. These included the LC1, LC2, and LC3 armchairs, and the LC4 chaise longue. Today Cassina is the exclusive worldwide licensee of the Le Corbusier designs.\n\nThe \"Cassina I Maestri\" collection was widened in 1968 with the acquisition from Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin of reproduction rights to some of the Bauhaus objects and in 1971 the designs of Gerrit Rietveld, Frank Lloyd Wright, and of Charles Rennie Mackintosh in 1972. The Masters collection continued with the re-issue in 1983 of furniture by Erik Gunner Asplund, the acquisition from the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation of rights of reproduction (1986) of furniture by Frank Lloyd Wright, including the Barrel chair (1937), and, finally, in 2004 furniture by Charlotte Perriand.\n\nThe 1972, the New York MoMA exhibition, \"Italy: the New Domestic Landscape\" curated by Emilio Ambasz was co-sponsored Cassina. In 2005 Cassina was purchased by the Poltrona Frau Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28902001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28902001", "title": "Cirque d'Été", "text": "Cirque d'Été\n\nThe Cirque d'Été (Summer Circus), a former Parisian equestrian theatre (and a type of indoor hippodrome), was built in 1841 to designs by the architect Jacques Hittorff. It was used as the summer home of the Théâtre Franconi, the equestrian troupe of the Cirque Olympique, the license for which had been sold in 1836 to Louis Dejean by Adolphe Franconi, the grandson of its founder, Antonio Franconi. The cirque was later also used for other purposes, including grand concerts conducted by Hector Berlioz. \n\nThe new theatre was located on the north-east side of the present Rond-Point of the Champs-Élysées. At first called the Cirque National, it also became known as the Cirque des Champs-Élysées and the Cirque Olympique des Champs-Élysées. In 1853 it was renamed Cirque de l'Impératrice (in honor of the new Empress Eugénie), a name which it retained until the fall of the empire in 1870.\n\nThe cirque on the Champs-Élysées should not be confused with the same company's winter theatre, the Cirque Olympique on the Boulevard du Temple, which had opened in 1827, or with the company's later winter theatre, the Cirque Napoléon (on the rue des Filles Calvaires), also built for Louis Dejean and opened in 1852. The latter theatre dropped the name Cirque Napoléon in 1870 and became primarily known as the Cirque d'Hiver (Winter Circus). The theatre on the Champs-Élysées was demolished in 1902.\n\nIn 1836 Louis Dejean, the owner of the Cirque Olympique on the boulevard du Temple, obtained an additional license for a summer tent-circus at the Carré Marigny on the Champs-Élysées. This was replaced in 1841 by a polygonal stone edifice with 16 sides. A pedimented porch on the east side was surmounted with a bronze equestrian statue designed by Pradier, and panels on the other sides sported ornamental bas-relief horses' heads designed by Duret and Bosio. The theatre was spacious and held as many as 4,000 to 6,000 spectators. To the north was a rectangular building which included the stables. The interior was decorated in a Moorish style,and the roof was supported by light iron columns. The ceiling was decorated with compartments enclosing equestrian figures, and a chandelier with 130 gas jets hung over the center of the performance ring, which was surrounded by sixteen rows of seats. The stadium-style seating was \"raked so sharply that those who wished might admire the costumes of fashionable women from head to toe.\"\n\nThe director of the theatre, a man by the name of Gallois, soon installed heating, and, being aware of the great success of the monster concert presented by Hector Berlioz at the nearby Festival de l'Industrie during the summer of 1844, engaged the composer for a series of six grand concerts to be presented at the Cirque that winter on Sunday afternoons, a day when no competing ones would be given at the Paris Conservatoire. The contract stipulated that Berlioz would hire and rehearse the orchestra and chorus, select the music, and conduct the performances. Berlioz engaged 350 players and singers for the concerts and held sectional rehearsals at the Salle Herz. Fortunately, Gallois underwrote all the costs.\n\nThe first concert on 19 January 1845 included Beethoven's \"Emperor\" Concerto with Charles Hallé as the piano soloist, excerpts from Gluck's operas \"Alceste\" and \"Orphée\", as well as works by Berlioz, including the overture \"Le carnaval romain\", \"La tour de Nice\" (the original version of the overture \"Le corsaire\"), and the \"Dies irae\" and \"Tuba mirum\" from his requiem mass, the \"Grande Messe des morts\". The latter two excerpts were played at the conclusion of all the concerts.\n\nThe second concert on 16 February had the theme \"séance orientale\", in keeping with the decoration of the hall. The program included Félicien David's symphonic ode \"Le désert\", the Austrian \"lion-pianist\" Léopold de Meyer playing his \"Marche marocaine\", Op. 22 (subtitled \"War-song of the Turks\"), and Berlioz's overture to \"Les francs-juges\". Apparently, Meyer's \"Marche\" \"electrified the audience, and was furiously encored.\"\n\nThe third concert on 16 March was organized around the theme \"séance russe\". There was music by the Russian composer Mikhail Glinka, who was in Paris at the time and attended the concerts, which included excerpts from his opera \"A Life for the Tsar\" and a ballet from his opera \"Russlan and Ludmilla\". The finale from Berlioz's dramatic symphony \"Roméo et Juliette\" had a Russian bass singing the role of Friar Laurence. The concert also included \"L'invitation à la valse\", Berlioz's orchestration of Carl Maria von Weber's piano piece \"Invitation to the Dance\" (which Berlioz had inserted as part of the ballet in his edition of Weber's opera \"Der Freischütz\" prepared for a production at the Paris Opera in 1841). Apparently Glinka was quite pleased with the music he heard by Berlioz: he soon departed on a trip to Spain planning to compose \"fantaisies pittoresque\" in the style of Berlioz.\n\nThe fourth program on 6 April was billed as a \"séance Berlioz\" and included the overture from Weber's \"Freischütz\", excerpts from Berlioz's symphonies \"Harold en Italie\" and \"Roméo et Juliette\", and Quasimodo's aria with chorus from Louise Bertin's opera \"La Esmeralda\" sung by the tenor Jean-Étienne-Auguste Massol, who had created the role at the Paris Opera in 1836. (At the premiere the aria had made such a good impression that Alexandre Dumas had cried out \"It's by Berlioz! It's by Berlioz!\". Berlioz denied that he had written any of the music, and only suggested an improvement to its ending.) The concert also included the first performance of Berlioz's orchestration of Meyer's \"Marche marocaine\".\n\nAlthough the first two concerts at the Cirque were well attended, the numbers quickly declined and the series closed after the fourth concert. The location, not a popular spot in the wintertime, was probably partly to blame, as were the acoustics of the hall, which was too reverberant. In addition, the ticket prices of 5 francs for the upper level and 10 francs for the lower were significantly higher than the 1 and 2 francs typically charged for an equestrian show.\n\nBerlioz was later to write in his memoirs:\n\n\"I do not remember what terms we agreed on; I know only that it turned out badly for him [Gallois]. The takings of the four concerts, for which we had engaged five hundred performers, were inevitably insufficient to cover all the cost of such huge forces. Once again the place was quite unsuitable for music. This time the sound reverberated so slowly in that heart-breaking rotunda that compositions of any complexity gave rise to the most horrid confusions of harmony. Only one piece was really effective and that was the Dies irae from my Requiem. Its breadth of tempo and harmonic movement made it seem less incongruous than any of the others in those booming cathedral-like spaces. It scored such a success that we had to include it in the programme of every concert.\nThe Cirque d'Été typically had relatively inexpensive ticket prices. In 1846, 1852, and 1862, spectators were paying 1 franc for the upper level seating and 2 francs for the lower. The theatre reached its apogee during the Second French Empire under the name Cirque de l'Impératrice (1853–1870), after which it became known as the Cirque d'Été or the Cirque des Champs-Élysées. Its big attraction for a long time was the clown Jean-Baptiste Auriol (1808–1881). La Belle Otero and Émilienne d'Alençon also made their debuts there.\n\nHittorf also designed a similar theatre, the Cirque Napoléon on the rue des Filles Calvaires which opened in 1852 and was renamed Cirque d'Hiver (Winter Circus) in 1870. The Cirque d'Été was only open in the summer from 1 May to 30 October, and the Cirque d'Hiver ran from 1 November to 30 April.\n\nThe Cirque d'Été's success continued into the 1880s. Many Parisians visited on Saturdays, and it was considered chic.\n\nPublic interest waned after the exposition universelle de 1889. It was demolished after 1900 (most likely in 1902) and gave its name to the rue du Cirque.\n"}
{"id": "15300831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15300831", "title": "Containerart", "text": "Containerart\n\nContainerArt is an itinerant public art event. The event uses shipping containers to display works of contemporary art. To date, the events took place in Italy and in some international cities. In Italy events have been held in Bergamo (2005) with 21 containers, Varese (2005) with 21 containers, Genova (2007) with 24 containers, Rome (2007) with 14 containers, Milano (2008) 6 containers, Torino(2008) 2 containers, Casale Monferrato (2008) 4 containers, Genova (2008) in co-production with the Kaohsiung Museum of Fine Arts. The event, named \"Ecosystems\" included 26 containers spread around the port city, 14 of which part of the Kaohsiung Container Arts biennale and shipped to Genova directly from Kaohsiung, Taiwan. In the fall of 2008 a simultaneous ContainerArt event in 4 cities was held under the name: \"Beauty Inside Will Save the World\": 4 containers in Milano, 4 in Torino, 4 in Venice (Mestre) and 1 container in Tirana in Albania. Internationally, ContainerArt has also held events in New York City (2006) with 8 containers in co-production with DIVA fair, and in Jerusalem (2007) with 3 containers and in São Paulo, Brazil under the leadership of Daniel Roesler and the curatorship of Lucas Bambozzi and Cao Guimares. The São Paulo event consisted of a temporary container museum structure assembled by the architectural firm of Bernardes & Jacobson and open to the public in Parque Villa Lobos between Nov 18 and 28, 2008. The temporary museum hosted exclusively contemporary video-art. In 2009, 2010, 2011 the event was also featured at the Pacific National Exhibit through a temporary container museum structure designed and managed by Peter Male. ContainerArt is now involved in artist exchanges among its international partners.\nThe latest ContainerArt events was held in Edmonton, Canada in 2011: a temporary museum structure positioned at the Capital Ex fair in Northlands from July 21 to July 31. The artists involved:\n\nNina Haggerty Centre for the Arts, iHuman Youth Society, Patti Matty, Jennifer Rae Forsyth, Monika Blichar, Colin Vince, Tyler Sherard, Michael Coolidge\n\nContainerArt events usually last for 10 days during which the container is open to the public. Containers are placed in the streets, and in public parks of a city. Maps are distributed so that visitors can explore unusual neighbourhoods and places through art. ContainerArt also places \"bStrogs\" or street blogs outside the open containers. Computers connected to the Internet are sometimes used to comment upon the work. ContainerArt also makes use of Bluetooth technologies to communicate information on the works and events to the passerby's cell phones. Since 2008 ContainerArt has focused on the creation of temporary museum structures made out of containers.\n\nThe event is produced by the Associazione Cuturale ContainerArt, an Italian non-profit association headed by Ronald Lewis Facchinetti. Facchinetti's curatorial philosophy is described in his book \"Beauty Inside\", and it is primarily concerned with helping the viewer achieve the \"aesthetic experience\" while isolated inside a container and in front of the work of art. ContainerArt also operates as an international franchise with partners in various countries, including Brazil, China, Canada and Israel.\n\nContainerArt has a Content Partner philosophy by which some containers are curated by institutions, museums or associations. Past content partners include Gamec, Festival Internazionale di PoesiaZoneattive, Premio Celeste and Oyoyoy! Festival.\n\nContainerArt projects that are not curated by content partners are directly chosen by Ronald Lewis Facchinetti in association with local co-curators or franchisees. Any artist can apply by sending a project and filling out an application available on the ContainerArt website.\n\nArtists exhibit for free. Artists whose project is approved are assigned a container in which to exhibit their work.\nThe event allows them to display their project in an unusual context with wide access to the general population of a city.\n\n\nFacchinetti, Ronald Lewis: \"Beauty Inside\". DPS editore, Collezione Rabano, 2007\n"}
{"id": "40620454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40620454", "title": "Cultural depictions of the dog", "text": "Cultural depictions of the dog\n\nCultural depictions of dogs extend back thousands of years to when dogs were portrayed on the walls of caves. Representations of dogs in art became more elaborate as individual breeds evolved and the relationships between human and canine developed. Hunting scenes were popular in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. Dogs were depicted to symbolize guidance, protection, loyalty, fidelity, faithfulness, watchfulness, and love.\nAs dogs became more domesticated, they were shown as companion animals, often painted sitting on a lady's lap. Throughout the art history there is an overwhelming presence of dogs as status symbols and pets in painting mainly in the Western art. The dogs were brought to houses and were allowed to live in the house and cherished as part of the family, and were regarded as mostly in the upper classes who used them for hunting and could afford to feed them. Hunting dogs were generally connected to the aristocracy. Only the nobility were allowed to keep hunting dogs, and this would signal status, and it was the signalment of a noble man. Dog portraits became increasingly popular in the 18th century, and the establishment of The Kennel Club in the UK in 1873 and the American Kennel Club in 1884 introduced breed standards or 'word pictures', which further encouraged the popularity of dog portraiture.\n\nThe walls of caves and tombs dating back to the Bronze Age have illustrations or statues of dogs. These generally portray dogs used for hunting, and even children's toys and ceramics depicting dogs.\nSome of the prehistoric paintings are found in Bhimbetka rock shelters, these paintings depict dog on a leash with a man. Rock art of Tassili n'Ajjer also include depiction of dog.\nThe Ancient Greeks and Romans, contrary to the Semitic cultures favored dogs as pets, and valued them for their faithfulness and courage and were often seen on Greek and Roman reliefs and ceramics as symbols of fidelity. Cats were not favoured over dogs, on contrary Ancient Greeks and Romans didn't keep cats as pets. Dogs were given as gifts among lovers and kept them as both pets, status symbols or kept for guardians and as hunting dogs. Dogs were appreciated by the Greek for their faith and love. Homeros Odyssey tells the story of Odysseus who had a dog called Argos he raised and who was the only one that recognized him when he returned home after his travels, disguised to conceals his appearance. Only the old dog recognized him instantly. This theme has been often depicted in on ancient Greek vases.\n\nThe Ancient Romans kept three types of dogs. Hunting dogs; especially sighthounds, Molossus type of dogs like the Neapolitan Mastiff were often depicted in reliefs and mosaics with the words Cave Canem; and small companion dogs of Maltese type as women's lap dogs. Greyhounds were often depicted too, often as sculptures. Large dogs were often used in war by the Roman army in attack formations or for wolf-hunting on horseback, which was a popular sport.\n\nGenerally, dogs symbolize faith and loyalty. A dog, when included in an allegorical painting, portrays the attribute of fidelity personified. In a portrait of a married couple, a dog placed in a woman's lap or at her feet can represent marital fidelity. If the portrait is of a widow, a dog can represent her continuing faithfulness to the memory of her late husband.\n\nAn example of a dog representing marital fidelity is present in Jan van Eyck's \"Arnolfini Portrait\". An oil painting on oak panel dated 1434 by the Early Netherlandish painter Jan van Eyck, it is a small full-length double portrait, which is believed to represent the Italian merchant Giovanni di Nicolao Arnolfini and his wife, presumably in their home in the Flemish city of Bruges. It portrays a wedding scene, where the people invited to witness the ceremony can be seen in the convex mirror at the back, the mirror symbolizing the eye of God. In those times people were not always married in the church, it was enough that two witnesses were present to make a wedding legal. A number of symbols can be found in the picture: the fruit, the symbol of fertility and wealth, the shoes removed (this is a holy place), and the dog. The oranges casually placed to the left are a sign of wealth; they were very expensive in Burgundy, and may have been one of the items dealt in by Arnolfini. The little dog symbolizes in the Middle Ages iconography faithfulness, devotion or loyalty, or can be seen as an emblem of lust, signifying the couple's desire to have a child. Unlike the couple, the dog looks out to meet the gaze of the viewer. The dog could also be simply a lap dog, a gift from husband to wife. Many wealthy women in the court had lap dogs as companions. In that case the dog could reflect wealth or social status.\nDuring the Middle Ages, images of dogs were often carved on tombstones to represent the deceased's feudal loyalty or marital fidelity.\n\nHunting scenes were common topics in medieval and Renaissance art. Hunting in the medieval period was a sport exclusive to the aristocracy and hunting was an essential part of court etiquette. Depictions of person together with a hunting dog, hawks or falcons would signal status, or was the signalment of a noble man - since the hunting dogs were connected to aristocracy, and only the nobility was hunting. Hunting was considered as a sport, but also a way of showing bravery, chivalric virtue while hunting dangerous prey such as wild boars and bears. Hunting dogs allow humans to pursue and kill prey that would otherwise be very difficult or dangerous to hunt. Different breeds of dogs were used for different types of hunting. Hunting with dogs was so popular that during the Middle Ages the wild bears had already been hunted to extinction in England.\n\nEven as animal domestication became relatively widespread and after the development of agriculture, hunting was usually a significant contributor to the human food supply. Hunting filled also a practical necessity, assuring food for the tables of the nobility. Nobles spending their money on packs of specially bred hounds were not unusual.\n\nGaston Phoebus (30 April 1331 – 1391) wrote a manual on hunting and there are several tapestries from the period which depict hunting scenes.\n\nEven if nobility was hunting, hunting has been forbidden to servants, peasants and also the Roman Catholic Church clerics. Thus the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\" (C. ii, X, De cleric. venat.) says, \"We forbid to all servants of God hunting and expeditions through the woods with hounds; and we also forbid them to keep hawks or falcons.\" The Fourth Council of the Lateran, held under Pope Innocent III, decreed (canon xv): \"We interdict hunting or hawking to all clerics.\" The decree of the Council of Trent is worded more mildly: \"Let clerics abstain from illicit hunting and hawking\" (Sess. XXIV, De reform., c. xii), which seems to imply that not all hunting is illicit, and canonists generally make a distinction declaring noisy (\"clamorosa\") hunting unlawful, but not quiet (\"quieta\") hunting. Thus, hunting dogs are seldom seen depicted in the company of clerics, but very often in the company of in the highest social class of that society.\n\nFor the same reason, depictions of dogs can be found in heraldry. In monarchies, the aristocracy are a class of people who either possess hereditary titles granted by a monarch or are related to such people, and thanks to the specific connection of the aristocrats with the hunting dogs, dogs were often shown as symbols in heraldry. In the late Middle Ages and the Renaissance, heraldry became a highly developed discipline. Dogs of various types, and occasionally of specific breeds, occur as charges and supporters in many coats of arms, and often symbolise courage, vigilance, loyalty and fidelity.\n\nThree encaustic tiles dating from the 15th century featured a white hound, the Talbot family crest and the inscription \"Sir John Talbot\" (the 1st Earl of Shrewsbury). Part of a set of four, the tiles were possibly originally used on a church floor. The term talbot is used in heraldry to refer to a good-mannered hunting dog. The Talbot dog always depicts the Talbot coat of arms and is the original hound used as an English heraldic symbol. It is portrayed in the family arms of several noble German families and at least seven other English families.\n\nDuring the 16th and 17th century, dogs were depicted in hunting scenes, or depicted representing social status, as a lap dog, or sometimes as a personal friend. They may also used as symbols in painting. The Greek philosopher Diogenes (404-323 BC) was depicted by Jean-Léon Gérôme, in the company of dogs that also served as emblems of his \"Cynic\" (Greek: \"kynikos,\" dog-like) philosophy, which emphasized an austere existence. Diogenes stated that \"Unlike human beings who either dupe others or are duped, dogs will give an honest bark at the truth. Other dogs bite their enemies, I bite my friends to save them.\" The Greek philosopher is seated in his abode, the earthenware tub, - also depicted sometimes in sitting in a barrel, - in the Metroon, Athens, lighting the lamp in daylight with which he was to go in searching for an honest man.\n\nHendrik Martenszoon Sorgh portrayed probably a scholar noted by its significance to its particular profession, depicting a book, or a Protestant preacher and theologian with the Bible opened on the table. A dog depicted as a companion to the scholar is a symbol of fidelity, vigilance and regularity in the research due to assigned to dogs natural intelligence and intuition, and the parrot is a symbol of erudition and eloquence.\n\nNetsuke are Japanese miniature sculptures of great artistic merit that were also serving a practical function as a storage place for kimomos that traditionally had no pockets. These small boxes had a carved, button-like toggle called a \"netsuke\". Most netsuke production was during around 1615–1868, in the Edo period in Japan. Among others motifs, netsukes depicted even dogs. \nThe tradition of showing dogs in hunting scenes continued through to the 18th century.\n\nThe picture entitled \"A Distinguished Member of the Humane Society\" depicts a dog that was well known in London at that time. The dog depicted by Sir Edwin Landseer 1838, was a Newfoundland called \"Bob\", who was found in a shipwreck off the coast of England. The dog found his way to the London waterfront, where he became known for saving people from drowning, a total of twenty-three times over the course of fourteen years. For this, he was made a distinguished member of the Royal Humane Society, granting him a medal and access to food. The Newfoundlanders with white patches are now recognized as a breed of their own, as a \"Landseer\".\nThe painting was described by \"The Art Journal\" 1838 as being \"one of the best and most interesting publications of the year\", and \"Mr Thomas Landseer's first great effort in this department of the art\". A 19th century copy of the painting by George Cole was sold by auctioneers Bonhams for £7,200 in March 2007.\n\nBy the Victorian era, the mainly sporting tradition remained but after the establishment of The Kennel Club in the UK in 1873 and the American Kennel Club in 1884 introduced breed standards or 'word pictures', dog portraits soared in popularity. There were differences between the British and European style of depiction; William Secord, a world expert on canine art, described it by stating: \"Belgian, Dutch, Flemish and German artists were more influenced by realism, depicting the dog the way it really looked, with dirt on it’s coat and slobber and that kind of thing. You see Alfred Stevens, who's Belgian, do street dogs and dogs that are suffering, which in England you never see. British depictions were more idealized. They want it pretty.”\n\nThe prices achieved for canine art increased the 1980s–90s and started to gain popularity in established art circles rather than antique markets. Buyers can generally be divided into three dominant categories: hunters; breeders and exhibitors of pedigree dogs; and owners of companion animals.\n\nPablo Picasso frequently included his canine companions in his paintings. Particularly well known and often featured in his work was a Dachshund, named Lump, who actually belonged to David Douglas Duncan but lived with Picasso.\n\nDepictions of dogs have been extended as well to the artform of photography, a noted example being the work of photographer Elliott Erwitt.\n\n"}
{"id": "28829730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28829730", "title": "Dacii (film)", "text": "Dacii (film)\n\nDacii (The Dacians) is a 1967 historical drama film about the run up to Domitian's Dacian War, which was fought between the Roman empire and the Dacians in AD 87-88. The film mixes historical events with a fictional story about a Roman general who is the son of a Dacian spy.\n\nThe film was directed by Romanian director Sergiu Nicolaescu. It was released on 31 May 1967 in France. It was entered into the 5th Moscow International Film Festival. In Romania the film was immensely successful, and it remains one of the most watched films of all time in the country.\n\nIn a pre-credit sequence, a massive Roman army arrives at the gates of a Dacian town. The Roman envoy asks them to open the gates, promising them life and liberty. The guard on watch asks who is making this demand, and gets the reply \"the masters of the world\". He responds \"You will be when we will die\".\n\nAfter the credits we see a Roman army commanded by General Fuscus (Georges Marchal) arrayed at the Danube waiting for the right moment to attack Dacia. Fuscus and Roman senator Attius plot to kill the decadent emperor Domitian, who has just arrived to take command. Attius's son Severus (Pierre Brice) is a subordinate commander under Fuscus. News arrives that the Marcomanni have risen in rebellion. Domitian decides to make a deal with the Dacians so he can use the army to suppress the rebellion. Attius is sent across the Danube with Severus and a small contingent of legionaries to negotiate. But as soon as he enters Dacian territory Attius is killed by a Dacian sentry. Severus returns to camp with his father's body, and Domitian orders an attack.\n\nIn Dacia Cotyso (Alexander Herescu) and Meda (Marie-José Nat), children of King Decebalus (Amza Pellea), are hunting in the Carpathian Mountains. When news arrives that Attius has been killed Decebalus makes the mysterious remark that he was \"the only Roman who was not supposed to die\". Decebalus reveals that Attius was really a Dacian called Zoltes, sent to Rome 40 years ago as part of a plan to promote Dacian interests. He had been supplied liberally with gold annually so that he could become influential in Roman politics and keep Decebalus informed of events in the capital. When he died he had been carrying a letter to Decebalus informing him of Roman plans and dispositions.\n\nDecebalus orders an evacuation of the border province accompanied by delaying operations against the Romans. He sends a symbolic message to Domitian: a caged mouse, frog, bird, a knife and a quiver of arrows. The message is misinterpreted by the Romans as a sign of Dacian submission to Rome (the animals signifying the land, waters and air, all being handed over with the weapons). Severus is deputed to travel to the Dacian capital to receive Decebalus' surrender. When he gets there, Decebalus reveals to him the truth about his father Attius. He also tells him that the true meaning of the message was that the Dacians would fight to the end against invaders.\n\nThe Dacians prepare for war. According to ancestral custom, the bravest young warrior must be sacrificed to the Dacian god Zalmoxis to win his favour. Since the king's son Cotyso won a contest of athletic and martial skill, he has been given the honour of being sent to Zalmoxis. Cotyso accepts that he must die and is sacrificed by being thrown onto spears. Decebalus says that the god will now be with them in their battles.\n\nAfter Severus reports back, an angry Domitian sends Fuscus to crush the Dacians. Severus is ordered by Fuscus to lead the vanguard into an attack on the Dacians in a valley, but they are drawn into an ambush. Severus is badly injured. Believing him dead, Fuscus blames the disaster on Severus. Meanwhile, a wounded and delirious Severus is wandering through the mountains. He is found by Decebalus' daughter Meda, who takes him to her cabin. They fall in love. When Decebalus finds out, he asks Severus to convince Domitian to negotiate, but Severus says that he must do his duty as a Roman officer. Decebalus lets him go. Back at the camp, Severus argues violently with Fuscus. Fuscus says he intends to overthrow Domitian, offering Severus the position of governor of Dacia, but the latter refuses. The two generals fight each other, and Severus kills Fuscus. Witnessing the fight, Domitian gives Severus command of the army and tells him to attack the Dacians. Decebalus, meanwhile has assembled his own army. The two armies confront each other across the battlefield. Decebalus and Severus meet between the armies and engage in single combat. Severus is killed. As he dies he says \"this is all I could do for you\". The two armies then march towards each other into battle.\n\n\nThe film was one of several nationalist epics produced during Nicolai Ceausescu's regime. According to Mark Stolarik it is about the ethnogenesis of the Romanian people as a \"Dacian-Roman synthesis\". After \"Mihai Viteazul\" (\"Michael the Brave\"), it is the most watched Romanian historical film, and the fourth most watched movie of all time in Romania. Mira Liehm and Antonín J. Liehm argue that \"the pathos of \"The Dacians\" and \"Michael the Brave\" was so moving to the Romanian audience and the films' naivete so sincere that their success became something of a sociological phenomenon.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31136806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31136806", "title": "Ellen Gittelsohn", "text": "Ellen Gittelsohn\n\nEllen Gittelsohn (born April 12, 1948 in New York City, New York) is an American television director. She has also been credited under the name Ellen Falcon, despite the popular belief that she and Ellen Falcon are two different people.\n\nSince the 1980s, Gittelsohn has amassed a number of television credits. Some of them include \"The Cosby Show\", \"A Different World\", \"Newhart\", \"Mary\", \"Foley Square\", \"227\", \"Roseanne\", \"Major Dad\", \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\", \"Living Single\", \"Friends\", \"Reba\", \"Shake It Up\", \"Two Guys, a Girl and a Pizza Place\", \"Everybody Loves Raymond\", \"Dharma & Greg\", \"One on One\", \"The Suite Life on Deck\", and \"Half & Half\". \n\nIn 1984, Gittelsohn earned a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for the series \"Buffalo Bill\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41984318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41984318", "title": "Enlighten Canberra", "text": "Enlighten Canberra\n\nEnlighten Canberra is an outdoor annual art and cultural festival held in Canberra, Australia featuring illuminating light installations and projections, performances from local and interstate musicians, dining and film events.\n\nThe festival is an Australian Capital Territory (ACT) Government initiative held annually in early March, encouraging people to \"See Canberra in a whole new light.\" The centrepiece of Enlighten Canberra is the illuminating of Canberra's cultural institutions after dark, including Old Parliament House, Parliament House and the National Gallery of Australia (since the 2011 event) as well as the National Portrait Gallery and Questacon (since the 2012 event). There is also live music, film screenings and after-hours tours.\n\nSince its inception, Enlighten has become increasingly popular, attracting 115,000 visitors in 2013 and 131,500 in 2014. Attendance rose again in 2015, to 287,874 visitors.\n\nIn 2008 ACT Labor made an election promise to deliver a new autumn event for Canberra, Australia—this was the beginnings of Enlighten Canberra. In December 2010, Andrew Barr, then Australian Capital Territory (ACT) Minister for Tourism, Sport and Recreation, announced the ACT Government Enlighten would be a major annual event, commencing in March 2011. He said national attractions that would participate with lit facades after dark included the National Gallery of Australia, Parliament House and Old Parliament House. Ticketed events were also announced, including headline international acts in concert.\n\nIn its first year, along with other events, Enlighten hosted rock band INXS, jazz guitarist George Benson, and world-music supergroup Afro Celt Sound System. To help promote Enlighten, INXS arrived in Canberra in a helicopter, landing on the lawns of Old Parliament House two weeks before their concert appearance. INXS band member Kirk Pengilly told reporters that the show planned for Enlighten 2011 was \"probably the biggest production that we've put on at any show in Australia.\" As part of the festival, cultural institutions in the Parliamentary triangle were illuminated after dark, including Old Parliament House, Parliament House and the National Gallery of Australia.\n\nDespite the big-ticket performances and media stunts, the inaugural festival cost $2.4 million, and there was poor community interest, with just 8600 visitors. The first Enlighten did however attract 2400 visitors from interstate or overseas who came to Canberra specifically for Enlighten or extended their stay because of it.\n\nThe slogan for Enlighten, announced in December 2010, is \"See Canberra in a whole new light\"\n\nIn its second year, Enlighten was made a part of the Canberra Festival. The merging of the festivals was met with criticism from the Canberra branch of the Liberal Party of Australia, with Canberra Liberal Brendan Smyth describing the Labor Government's attempt to create a new festival as \"embarrassing\".\nThe Enlighten entertainment lineup featured in the 2012 event was scaled back significantly from the 2011 event to instead feature local Canberra artists including Owen Campbell. Of the nearly 100 artists contracted to perform in the 2012 festival, 53 per cent were local artists, paid 11.5 per cent of the Enlighten programming budget that year. In 2012 Questacon and the National Portrait Gallery became canvasses for projection for the first time—they had not been lit in the 2011 Enlighten festival. \nIn 2013, along with the large-scale building illuminations featured in the previous two events, Enlighten hosted a spiegeltent for the first time. The tent put on dozens of shows featuring comics, acrobats and musicians. The festival also included Canberra's first Dîner en Blanc, a pop-up picnic in which all guests dress in white and bring their own food, table, table-setting and chair. More than 700 people attended the picnic, the third Dîner en Blanc to be held in Australia. Dîner en Blanc was repeated in 2014, with over 800 people attending, but the dinner was not included as part of Enlighten 2015. Film screenings and after hours tours were also offered, and American soul singer Charles Bradley performed as part of the 2014 festival. \n\nIn November 2014, the ACT Government announced the Night Noodle Markets would be coming to Canberra during the Enlighten Festival in 2015. The Night Noodle Markets feature Asian-themed street-food vendors. ACT Tourism Minister Andrew Barr told media that Canberra's Night Noodle Markets were expected to host up to 25 hawker style food stalls, and that the ACT Government had committed $200,000 to bring the 2015 noodle markets to the city. Around 156,000 peoples visited the inaugural Enlighten Night Noodle Markets—of whom 24,000 visited on the opening night, far exceeding expectations.\n\nIn 2016, alongside the Night Noodle Markets, Enlighten featured an installation by Amanda Parer of five illuminated white rabbits standing at . Parer described the rabbits as metaphors for the mismanagement of the environment. Free concerts held over the consecutive weekends featured indie rock Australian band Augie March and American alternative country musical group Calexico.\n\nAhead of the 2016 ACT election the Labor party committed to spend $3.72 million to continue Enlighten in 2017, 2018 and 2019.\n\nFor its first six years, the large-scale projections for Enlighten were coordinated by Electric Canvas. Electric Canvas's managing director Peter Milne has also worked on the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games and the 2006 Melbourne Commonwealth Games.\nSince its inception, Enlighten has become increasingly popular, attracting 115,000 visitors in 2013 and 131,500 in 2014. Attendance rose again in 2015, to 287,874 visitors.\n\nIn 2012, projections for Enlighten were predominantly powered using diesel generators and consumed 2423 litres of diesel, resulting in an estimated 7.0 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent greenhouse gas emissions.\n\n"}
{"id": "11376476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11376476", "title": "Frick Fine Arts Building", "text": "Frick Fine Arts Building\n\nThe Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Building is a landmark Renaissance villa and a contributing property to the Schenley Farms-Oakland Civic Historic District on the campus of the University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The Frick Fine Arts Building sits on the southern edge of Schenley Plaza, opposite The Carnegie Institute, and is the home of Pitt's History of Art and Architecture Department, Studio Arts Department, and the Frick Fine Arts Library. Before its front steps is Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain.\n\nThe Frick Fine Arts Building sits on the site of the former Schenley Park Casino, Pittsburgh's first multi-purpose arena with an indoor ice skating rink, sat on the location of the building before burning down in December 1896.\n\nThe building itself is a gift of Helen Clay Frick (1888–1984), daughter of the Pittsburgh industrialist and art patron Henry Clay Frick (1849–1919). She established the Fine Arts Department at the University of Pittsburgh in 1926 and continued to fund it through the 1950s, when she first made a commitment to create a separate structure to house it. Land for the project was donated to the university by the City of Pittsburgh.\n\nIn early negotiations with the University of Pittsburgh, Miss Frick asked that successors to the New York architects Carrère and Hastings design the new facility after the Italian palazzo its firm had built in Manhattan for her father some fifty years earlier. Eventually, however, both parties agreed to Burton Kenneth Johnstone Associates as the architects. Its design is modeled after Pope Julius III's (1487–1555) Villa Giulia in Rome, Italy. The building is constructed of white limestone and marble with a terracotta tile roof around a central courtyard. An octagonal cupola, which caps the central rotunda, rises 45 feet above the ground. The building houses the University of Pittsburgh's Department of History of Art and Architecture, and contains classrooms, an open cloister, an art gallery, a 200-seat auditorium, as well as a research library. Construction began in 1962 and the building was opened in May 1965.\n\nBy the late 1960s Miss Frick, unhappy that the university did not conform to her restrictions on management of both the department and the new building, severed her ties with the University of Pittsburgh. She responded by creating a new venture, The Frick Art Museum, on the property of her ancestral home, Clayton, a few miles east in Pittsburgh's Point Breeze neighborhood. That museum operates today as a part of the Frick Art & Historical Center complex.\n\nThe Frick Fine Arts Building consists of classrooms, a library, and art galleries around an open cloister and contains a high octagon capped by a pyramidal roof.\n\nA noted 1965 low relief portrait of Henry Clay Frick by Malvina Hoffman in limestone sits above the entrance to the building. Hoffman was 79 years old when she accepted the commission. She could not sculpt it herself because union rules prevented sculptors from working on a relief attached to a building. However, she climbed up on the scaffolding to oversee the completion of the work. Inside the main entrance, a neon work by contemporary Chinese artist Gu Wenda is installed in the lobby.\n\nThe building also contains a 200-seat auditorium that is used for lectures, performances, and special events.\n\nThe Nicholas Lochoff Cloister is a main feature of the Frick Fine Arts Building. Its large paintings of Italian masterpieces are scale reproductions that were commissioned in 1911 from Nicholas Lochoff by the Moscow Museum of Fine Arts (now the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts). Lochoff worked slowly and carefully. Only a few paintings were completed and sent back to Russia by the Russian Revolution of 1917. Lochoff, unable to return because of new communist regime, felt compelled to sell off the paintings. Buyers included Harvard University and the Frick Art Reference Library in New York. Miss Frick acquired the entire collection, however, after Lochoff's death, with the help of art critic Bernard Berenson. In 2003, the paintings were cleaned and restored by Christine Daulton. Also in the gallery are noted Carrara marble reproductions of 14th century Annunciation figures by sculptor Alceo Dossena.\n\nLocated in Frick Fine Arts Building, this two-story library houses a circulating research collection serving the Department of the History of Art and Architecture. The Collection contains over 90,000 volumes and subscribes to more than 350 journals in relevant fields and is ranked among the top 10 fine art libraries in the country. The library's reading room is constructed of fruit wood paneling and cabinetwork with gold leaf trim designed by Italian craftsmen. The library is further appointed by wrought iron balcony railings, terracotta tile flooring, maple tables with matching Windsor chairs, and ceiling-high windows furnishing views of Schenley Park. An inscription on the wall facing the entrance indicates the libraries dedication to Henry Clay Frick.\n\nThe permanent collection contains a collection of prints and graphic works dating from the 16th through 20th centuries and regularly hosts changing exhibitions sponsored by the Department of the History of Art and Architecture and the Friends organization. Some of the more prominent pieces in the permanent collection include a large collection of Jacques Callot and Gertrude Quastler prints; 16th-18th century drawings from the Clapp and Denny families; a collection of 19th and 20th century photography; the Gimbel collection of American art; and various Japanese prints, Asian ceramics, portraits, and Pittsburgh-related paintings by Hetzel, Gorson, and Kane.\n\nThe Frick Fine Arts Building appeared in scenes set at the University of Pittsburgh on an episode of \"As the World Turns\" that aired on November 12, 2002.\n\n\n\nArt Gallery\n\nDepartments\n\nPanorama\n\nVideo\n"}
{"id": "8145365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8145365", "title": "Gowers Review of Intellectual Property", "text": "Gowers Review of Intellectual Property\n\nThe Gowers Review of Intellectual Property was an independent review of UK intellectual property (IP) focusing on UK copyright law that was published in December 2006. The then Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown commissioned Andrew Gowers to lead the review in December 2005. The Review was published on 6 December 2006 as part of the Chancellor's annual pre-budget report. The review concludes that the UK's intellectual property system is fundamentally strong but made 54 recommendations for improvements.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe review coincided with a 2006 survey carried out on behalf of the National Consumer Council, which indicated that over half of British adults infringe copyright law by duplicating and ripping music CDs. Following the review, in January 2008 the government initiated a public consultation period on proposals to legalise personal copying.\n\nOn November 27, 2006, it was reported that Gowers would not recommend for the copyright term of recorded music to be extended from the current 50 years after the date of recording. The British Phonographic Industry and prominent musicians, such as Cliff Richard and Ian Anderson, had lobbied for an extension to 95 years, matching the length of copyright provided in the United States; other musicians, such as Dave Rowntree of Blur provided counteropinions. The Gowers Review found that the UK, compared with the USA, suffers no apparent impediment to creativity due to this disparity. To coincide with the publication of the review on the 6 December a full-page advertisement entitled Fair play for musicians, was taken in the \"Financial Times\" of December 7, stating \"We call upon the UK Government to support the extension of copyright on sound recordings\", and was signed by over 4,500 musicians, including a few dead ones.\n\nRichard Sargeant, a civil servant who wrote large amounts of the Review, was later hired by Google. In January 2009, as Google's \"public policy manager\", he called for reforms to incorporate exemptions similar to the United States' fair use doctrine into UK and Europe copyright law.\n\n"}
{"id": "2675633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2675633", "title": "Grand Austrian State Prize", "text": "Grand Austrian State Prize\n\nThe Grand Austrian State Prize () is a decoration given annually by Austria to an artist for exceptional work. The recipient must be an Austrian citizen with a permanent residence in Austria.\n\nIt was originally created in 1950 by then education minister Felix Hurdes. The prize is given according to the recommendation by the Austrian Art Senate without a set rotation schedule for literature, music, visual art, or architecture. Since 2003 it has been endowed with a 30,000 euro prize. In the areas of film and artistic photography, the prize is awarded according to a jury and not the Art Senate.\n\nSince 1971, the prize has been given to only one person a year, instead of sometimes given to multiple people in different categories.\n"}
{"id": "19497914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19497914", "title": "H. Huntsman &amp; Sons", "text": "H. Huntsman &amp; Sons\n\nH. Huntsman & Sons (known as Huntsman of Savile Row) is a high-end fashion house and tailor located at No. 11 Savile Row, London. It is known for its English bespoke menswear tailoring, cashmere ready-to-wear collections, and leather accessories.\n\nIn 1886, the company earned its first Royal Warrant as Leather Breeches Maker to HRH the Prince of Wales (later Edward VII). This was followed by that of HRH Prince Albert, Duke of Saxe Coburg Gotha and Queen Victoria in 1888. In September 2017, Huntsman served as the inspiration for Matthew Vaughn's blockbuster movie .\n\nFounded in 1849, Huntsman is a Savile Row tailor, producing traditional bespoke tailoring for gentlemen and ladies. Huntsman has been granted several royal warrants bestowed by British and European monarchs, including The Prince of Wales, (later Edward VII) and Queen Victoria. Huntsman is also one of the founders of the Savile Row Bespoke Association - the trade body responsible for protecting and promoting the working practices of Savile Row.\n\nFounded in 1849 by Mr. Henry Huntsman, H. Huntsman & Sons incorporated a Victorian breeches-maker dating back to 1809 when the house was first established at No. 126 New Bond Street. Henry Huntsman thereby founded a tailoring house which quickly gained a reputation for dressing the hunting and riding aristocracy of Europe for much of the nineteenth century. Huntsman continues to make equestrian and sporting tailoring today and Henry Huntsman's very own breeches are still displayed in the company's Savile Row shop. Early twentieth century advertisements for Huntsman breeches survive in the company's archives, as do photographs depicting many golden-era Hollywood celebrities (Clarke Gable and David Niven for example) wearing Huntsman breeches and riding trousers, as well as images of His Royal Highness Edward VII in full equestrian dress atop horse. The house's relationship with British royalty extends as far back as Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, who both patronised the house from its opening in 1849.\n\nDuring the First World War, Huntsman's was a tailor to the military, producing dress uniforms for British officers throughout the conflict. Several ledger books remain in Huntsman's archives today, listing the names of each officer and their commissions, often with a note revealing their fate in the margins. The firm moved to No. 11 Savile Row with the ending of the war in 1919 with the onset of the Roaring 20s. The Prince of Wales (soon to become Edward VIII) was a customer during the 1920s, which prompted much of the jet-set of the time to follow. Cecil Beaton, Laurence Olivier, Bill Blass and Lord Louis Mountbatten were all notable clients. It was during this time that Huntsman came to acquire the two stags' heads which overlook the shop-front today. They fell into the company's hands by chance; being left by a customer who went out to lunch in 1921 and neglected to ever return.\n\nIn 1932, Henry Huntsman's sons passed on the firm to Mr. Robert Packer. Packer was the 'human dynamo' according to Richard Anderson, who drove the company forward into the twenty-first century, transforming \"Huntsman's reputation from that of merely a reliable gaiter and britches maker to a glamorous bespoke fashion house\". From the 30s to the 70s, working with Head Cutter Colin Hammick, Packer ensured that Huntsman's reputation as the most expensive Savile Row tailor was well established. Hammick believed he offered 'the best quality' on Savile Row to justify the house's high prices, retaining a high-profile international client list. Perhaps most notable was the house's relationship with Gregory Peck, who Huntsman dressed for half a century between 1953 and 2003. During this time Peck (and his film studios) commissioned over 160 suits from the house both for use on screen and off.\n\nAdvertising material from the 50s and 60s shows that Hammick created traditional Savile Row tailoring with a fashionable edge. Indeed, Hammick himself was named the 'Best Dressed Man of the Year' by the Tailor & Cutter magazine in 1971, testifying to his sense of style. Notably, Hammick not only oversaw operations when Huntsman was at its largest in terms of size - during the early 80s the house employed some 130 people and in 1980 reported sales of $2.4 million - but was also responsible for mentoring many of Savile Row's current heavyweights.\n\nIn 2013, financier Pierre Lagrange purchased Huntsman, and the house has since undergone a number of modernisations. Campbell Carey was appointed Creative Director in 2015 and has helped to reintroduce a Huntsman ready-to-wear collection. Lagrange has also introduced E-commerce to the company's website. Simultaneously, Senior Cutter Dario Carnera, was promoted Co-Head Cutter with Mr Carey, a first in the history of Savile Row. Likewise in 2013, Huntsman acted as the inspiration behind ‘’ a Hollywood spy-thriller starring Colin Firth and Samuel L. Jackson. Reportedly, Director Matthew Vaughn first decided to set his film within a tailor’s shop when visiting Huntsman for a fitting. Vaughn has been a Huntsman customer since his mother brought him to the store to order his first bespoke suit at eighteen years of age, making Huntsman a natural choice of setting. Both the shop front and interior appear in the movie.\n\nAlthough Huntsman's suits retain what Wei Koh, Editor-in-Chief of \"The Rake\" magazine refers to as 'their famous structured silhouette', Huntsman's website notes that 'our team can work to almost any brief'. Most recently, the house created a bespoke quilted-leather double-breasted car-coat in collaboration with Bentley.\n\nAs outlined on the Huntsman website, the process of placing an order begins with a consultation, during which the customer meets with Johnny Allen, Bespoke Clients Manager, who discusses the customer's requirements for his suit, helping to finalise any stylistic decisions and his choice of fabric. A cutter will then measure-up the client (Huntsman takes an average of 30 different measures for a first suit), before this is drafted into the traditional brown paper pattern. This pattern is then chalked onto the customer's chosen cloth, which is in turn cut out. This will then be sewn together into the suit's raw three-dimensional form by a dedicated coat maker, ready for fitting. Huntsman produces all of its clothes in house, so every suit is produced by the same team.\n\nAfter the first fitting, the basted garment is then returned to its two-dimensional form and re-cut according to the refined pattern, after which a second fitting will take place to re-assess the garment's fit. More structure will be added to the garment at this stage, jacket sleeves will be set-in by hand and the suit's lining felled into the garment accordingly. Other hand-sewn elements will include all buttonholes, the trouser fly and any topstitching applied to the jacket and/or waistcoat lapels and pocket flaps - conforming to Savile Row Bespoke Association working standards. Further alterations are carried out if required and a final fitting will take place. Each individual suit takes over eighty man-hours to produce.\n\nA Huntsman suit is characterised predominantly by its structured shoulders and high armholes. The line through the waist is cut long with a subtle hourglass shape and some flair in the skirt which reflects Huntsman's sporting heritage. Jackets are generally cut with Huntsman's signature one button fastening and menswear historian James Sherwood notes that 'the one-button [coat] is notoriously difficult to balance - the cutter's answer to a perfect pirouette en pointe - hence Huntsman's pride in it'.\n\nHuntsman has a long history of commissioning exclusive cloths for its customers, particularly bold checked tweeds. These are produced on an annual basis at the family-run 'Islay Woollen Mill', the oldest woollen mill in the Inner Hebrides.\n\nIn 2014, the house produced a collection of exclusive tweeds inspired by those worn by Huntsman's famous patron Gregory Peck. A clothes worn by Peck and cut by Huntsman's famous former Head Cutter Colin Hammick in the 1960s survive in the Peck family to this day. Upon rediscovering one particularly bold checked tweed sports coat, cut in an exclusive house tweed from 1961, Huntsman redeveloped the tweed, enlarging the original design and lending it a softer, more contemporary finish. In 2015, the house produced its first cashmere tweed in over fifty years, a replica of a houndstooth cloth that was originally an exclusive Huntsman fabric woven in 1952 and favoured by Peck for the majority of his life.\n\nThe House also has a reputation for the production of limited edition suitings, working closely with wool producers and weavers on exclusive projects. In 2007, the house purchased the world's only bale of 11.9 micron, 1PP graded wool at a wool auction in Melbourne, Australia. The combination of such a low micron count together with the AWEX 1PP award for wool-quality effectively graded the wool as the finest ever produced. This was woven into Huntsman's record breaking 'Opus' cloth, woven to one of the finest yarn counts possible, a 'Super 240s'. 34 suit lengths of the cloth were produced, woven into a navy twill and herringbone. Today, only a few metres of the navy herringbone remain, with the navy twill entirely sold out.\n\nHuntsman clients have included King Edward VII, King Edward VIII, King Alfonso XII, Winston Churchill, Rudolph Valentino, Lord Mountbatten, Gregory Peck, Clark Gable, Douglas Fairbanks Jr, Laurence Olivier, Ronald Reagan, Marc Jacobs, Lapo Elkann, and Gianni Agnelli.\n\nCarol Pierce joined Huntsman in 2014 as the house's General Manager, primarily to ensure consistency in the quality of Huntsman's bespoke product, as well as to develop the availability of Huntsman's bespoke service in foreign markets. Pierce works closely with Creative Director Campbell Carey, who joined Huntsman in early 2015, and is responsible for overseeing the design of all the house's ready-to-wear collections, ensuring that 'the bespoke values of the company are present within the full range of products, from ready-to-wear tailoring to accessories.' Campbell combines a mix of bespoke cutting expertise with experience in ready-to-wear, a skill-set honed previously at similar British bespoke tailor, Kilgour on Savile Row.\n\nSharing the role of Co-Head Cutter with Carey is Dario Carnera, whose background is similarly bespoke-orientated, with his father running the London cordwainer G.J. Cleverley. Similarly, Bespoke Clients Manager Johnny Allen is but one of several 'Allens' in the trade. His brother runs the 'Charlie Allen' bespoke tailor in the City. Allen has worked in bespoke tailoring for the past twenty five years, and is acknowledged within the bespoke community as an authority on classic men's style.\n\nIn March 2015, Dionne Reeves and Vanessa Black, two of Huntsman’s apprentices qualified as Finalists for The Golden Shears, (Savile Row’s biannual bespoke tailoring competition for young tailors, commonly referred to as the Oscars of the tailoring world). Reeves went on to receive the prestigious Silver Shears award.\n\n2016 - 2017\n\nIn February 2016, Huntsman became the first Savile Row tailor to open a permanent location in New York. American clientele now enjoy a permanent home in the States in a pied-à-terre in New York with antique Huntsman tweed covered furnishings and historic photographs from Huntsman’s past adorning the walls.\n\nAlongside regular visits to the east coast of America, visiting clients based in New York City, Boston and Washington (as well as Chicago), the house also undertakes regular west coast tours, visiting San Francisco and Los Angeles. Huntsman expanded its trunk shows, pioneering visits to different corners of Asia, including a trunk show in Seoul and visits to Tokyo, Singapore, Hong Kong and Beijing.[45]\n\nWith daytime fashion in mind, 2016 featured a busy social calendar for Huntsman. The house participated in the polo and racing seasons with the highlights being Huntsman’s Royal Ascot residence on the Rosebery, as well as the house’s post-racing party. \n2016 also saw Huntsman taking on more modern projects including cutting bespoke tweed driving suits for Marc Newson and Charlotte Stockdale in the 2016 Mille Miglia Race.\n\nHuntsman’s Savile Row premises play host to a variety of exciting events, including charity auctions for several worthy causes, which have raised up to £80,000 in donations. Exhibitions for artists such as Cecil Beaton, Alex Talbot Rice and Gray Malin were hosted by the house, as well as whisky tastings, private lunches, and book launches\n\nIn 2016, over half a million people tuned in live to learn all things bespoke from Huntsman owner Pierre Lagrange and senior cutter Robert Bailey at an event in Beijing. In February, Huntsman even graced the London Fashion Week catwalk as a part of the inspired Gareth Pugh show. The ‘Treasures from Chatsworth’, a miniseries presented by Huntsman and produced by Sotheby’s, was launched in 2016 too - detailing the magnificent collections of the Cavendish family whilst also putting a spotlight on how contemporary Huntsman’s age-old bespoke craftsmanship is.\n\n2013 - 2015\n\nSince taking over the company in 2013, Owner and Non-Executive Chairman Pierre Lagrange has introduced a number of developments which differentiate Huntsman from the majority of Savile Row tailors. Under Lagrange's direction, Huntsman launched its 'Archive Collection' in 2013, a capsule collection of ready-to-wear tailoring, shirting and accessories, returning a ready-to-wear product to Huntsman. The collection focused on both rejuvenating some aspects of Huntsman's traditional block, but also sought to integrate true menswear classics into the collection, as inspired by Huntsman's extensive historical archives. E-commerce was introduced at the same time, allowing for the ready-to-wear collection to be purchased online. Huntsman's website states that newly appointed Creative Director Campbell Carey is responsible for overseeing the ready-to-wear collection. The house's new General Manager Carol Pierce (formally the head of Dunhill's bespoke division) was also appointed in 2015 to oversee the house's bespoke operations.\n\nAlongside regular visits to the east coast of America, visiting clients based in New York City, Boston and Washington (as well as Chicago), the house also undertakes regular west coast tours, visiting San Francisco and Los Angeles. Huntsman is also the first Savile Row tailor to open a permanent location in New York, a move that was announced in May 2015. An Asia tour has also been scheduled for September 2015, including a trunk show in Seoul and visits to Tokyo, Singapore, Hong Kong and Beijing.\n\nAdditionally, Huntsman is the sponsor of selected initiatives in the world of professional Polo. In June 2014, the Huntsman Polo Team was formed and won bronze, silver and gold cups in the Land Rover International Polo Tournament. In November 2014, the house partnered again with another team led by His Royal Highness Prince Harry, dressing his 'Huntsman Sentebale Polo Team' for the Sentebale Polo Cup in Abu Dhabi. A limited number of exclusive polo shirts were available to purchase after the tournament, with a percentage of the proceeds going to Sentebale. Huntsman also designed a unique lining for the contest, featuring a motif of forget-me-nots, a mark of respect to those children which the Prince's Sentebale charity (the motif of which is also the forget-me-not) works to protect from poverty and disease.\n\nHuntsman was one of five founding members of the Savile Row Bespoke Association - Savile Row's protective trade body.\n"}
{"id": "31256718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256718", "title": "Happily Divorced", "text": "Happily Divorced\n\nHappily Divorced is an American sitcom created by Fran Drescher and her ex-husband Peter Marc Jacobson. Inspired by their experiences, the series, which became TV Land's third original scripted series following \"Hot in Cleveland\" and \"Retired at 35\", ran from June 15, 2011, to February 13, 2013, and revolves around a Los Angeles florist who finds out her husband of 18 years is gay. The series was canceled after two seasons on August 23, 2013.\n\nDrescher plays Fran Lovett, a Los Angeles florist who is shocked when Peter, her husband of 18 years, comes out of the closet as gay. They divorce, but because of the poor economy, they cannot afford to live separately. She struggles with navigating the new parameters of their relationship while re-entering the dating pool.\n\nThe main cast includes:\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\"Happily Divorced\" is inspired by the real lives of series creators Fran Drescher and Peter Marc Jacobson, who had been high school sweethearts and then married in 1978. They divorced in 1999. Jacobson later came out as gay to Drescher and the two remained friends. In 2010 the pair, who had previously created Drescher's earlier series \"The Nanny\", began developing the series based on their life experiences. Initially Drescher planned only to write and produce \"Happily Divorced\" but eventually decided to star as well. Set in Los Angeles, Fran's gay ex-husband still lives with her for economic reasons, with \"a very traditional family. Everyone's very accepting that he's gay. They're both dating; he's new at it, she's new at it.\" TV Land gave the green light to a pilot episode in November 2010. The network announced on March 21, 2011, that the series had been picked up with a ten-episode order. The show is shot in front of a live studio audience at CBS Radford in Studio City., which provides \"Happily Divorced\" the typical style of the 1990s' sitcoms. There are still more parallels to \"The Nanny\": the opener is an animation, underlaid with specially composed music and also, Drescher refuses a role name and is just called 'Fran'. \"The Nanny\" regulars, Renée Taylor and Charles Shaughnessy, have made guest appearances; the latter having also co-starred on \"Living With Fran\". The show premiered on Wednesday, June 15, 2011, in the 10:30 time slot after the television show \"Hot in Cleveland\".\n\nThe show was renewed on July 20, 2011, for a second season of 12 episodes, which started airing weekly on March 7, 2012. The new season is advertised by the slogan \"The Laugh is Back\". Beginning of February 2012 TV Land made the guest stars for season 2 public. There are again some famous \"The Nanny\" faces : Renée Taylor (alias \"Sylvia Fine\") returns from season 1 as Dori's neighbor \"Marilyn\", and Ann Guilbert (alias \"Yetta\") appears as Marilyn's mother, \"Mrs. Kapelmaster\". Furthermore, Hollywood beauties Morgan Fairchild and Joan Collins will be on view as well.\n\nOn April 29, 2012, the day of the TV Land Awards 2012, the cable broadcaster extended the second season, picking up an additional 12 episodes, bringing the total count of season 2 to 24 episodes. The initial 12 episode order concluded June 6. The 12 additional episodes began airing November 28, 2012, at 10:30 PM EST, following the Season 4 premiere of \"Hot in Cleveland\" at 10 PM.\n\nThe show was officially cancelled on August 23, 2013.\n\nEarly reviews of the series were mixed. David Hinckley, writing for \"The New York Daily News,\" noted that it \"may be that all this will develop an interesting story. On opening night, though, it feels like the show's primary goal is to set up one-liners – which is not how the great shows got to be great.\" Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" called it \"so painfully broad and filled with gay stereotypes all but Drescher's most faithful fans will yearn to be separated from their TVs,\" while Matthew Gilbert of \"The Boston Globe\" summed it as \"the kind of throwback you just might want to throw back.\" Mark A. Perigard's review for \"The Boston Herald\" was very emphatic; he noted that \"in \"Happily Divorced\", TV Land, the cable channel for baby boomers, finally may have found the perfect companion to its smash \"Hot in Cleveland\".\"\n\nParamount Home Media Distribution released the first season of \"Happily Divorced\" on Region 1 DVD on March 6, 2012.\n\nEndemol has sold \"Happily Divorced\" into multiple territories. The show has been bought by SBS in the Netherlands, SABC in South Africa, Global in Canada, Comedy Central in India, Italy, Mexico and Brazil, MTV in Latin America and TVNZ in New Zealand. Similar deals with a German company for \"Happily Divorced\" will be announced soon. In Bulgaria the show has been bought by Fox Life. Advanced negotiations are underway in Poland and Sweden. In Greece, the sitcom premiered on October 15, 2012, at the prime-time slot of Makedonia TV.\nIn Belgium the show premiered April 8, 2013, and airs daily on VIJF after reruns of The Nanny at 6.30pm. In the United Kingdom, the series made its debut on May 12, 2013, on TLC UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "24179086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24179086", "title": "Hit Song Science", "text": "Hit Song Science\n\nHit Song Science is a term coined by Mike McCready and trademarked by the company he co-founded, Polyphonic HMI. It concerns the possibility of predicting whether a song will be a hit, prior to its distribution using automated means such as machine learning software.\n\nThe scientific nature of Hit Song Science is a subject of debate in the music information retrieval (MIR) community. Early studies claimed that using machine learning techniques could capture some information from audio signals and lyrics that would explain popularity. \nHowever, a larger-scale evaluation contradicts the claims of “Hit Song Science”, i.e. that the popularity of a music title can be learned effectively from known audio features. \nMany other reasons, including the well known \"cumulative advantage\" or preferential attachment effects deeply contradicts the possibility of practical applications. \nNevertheless, automatic prediction techniques are the basis of hit counseling businesses (HSS Technology). Recent work by Herremans et al. has shown that audio features can indeed be used to outperform a random oracle when predicting top 10 versus top 30-40 hits .\n\nA technology proposing to exploit Hit Song Science was introduced in 2003 by an artificial intelligence company out of Barcelona, Spain, called Polyphonic HMI. Polyphonic HMI has since spun off a new Delaware C corporation, Music Intelligence Solutions, Inc., which used to run uPlaya, a site geared toward music professionals. In 2006 however one of the company's founders, Mike McCready left to pursue another direction in the digital music space.\nThe idea of Hit Song Science has generated response from many in the music industry, including Chuck D, Robert Lamm, Stratton Leopold, Gregg Scholl of The Orchard, and officials at The Sync Agency as well as Blue Infinity Music. Prior to McCready's departure, Hit Song Science was profiled by NBC, BBC and various major news outlets. The plot line of an episode of \"Numb3rs\" was inspired by the technology.\nMusic Intelligence Solutions, Inc., is using Hit Song Science as a basis for several contests done in partnership with organizations such as AllHipHop.com, Urban Latino and \"American Songwriter\" magazine, and claims to have predicted the commercial success of Norah Jones's debut album, \"Come Away with Me\", (which won a Grammy for Best Album) and Ben Novak's debut single, \"Turn Your Car Around\", which reached the number 12 spot in the UK Top 40 charts.\n\nSimilar technologies are now emerging with companies such as Mixcloud, MusicXray, and BandMetrics who are using their technologies. Mixcloud is working with Queen Mary Technologies.\n"}
{"id": "11897622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11897622", "title": "Integrated design", "text": "Integrated design\n\nIntegrated design is an approach to design which brings together specialisms usually considered separately. For example:\n\nThe requirement for integrated design comes when the different specialisms are dependent on each other or \"coupled\". An alternative or complimentary approach to integrated design is to consciously reduce the dependencies. In computing and systems design, this approach is known as loose coupling.\n\nThree phenomena are associated with a lack of integrated design:\n\nA committee is sometimes a deliberate attempt to address disparate design, but design by committee is associated with silent design.\n\nThe integrated design approach incorporates methods and tools to encourage and enable the specialists in the different areas to work together to produce an integrated design. One such method is a charrette with all specialists present, early in the design process.\n\n"}
{"id": "1674042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674042", "title": "Iranian Academy of the Arts", "text": "Iranian Academy of the Arts\n\nThe Iranian Academy of Arts (IAA) (Persian: فرهنگستان هنر ایران; formally Academy of Arts of the Islamic Republic of Iran) was established in March 2000. It is one of the four academies of the Islamic Republic of Iran; the other three are: the Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences, the Iranian Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Persian Language and Literature. The IIA is an authorised entity affiliated with presidential administration.\n\nMir Hossein Mousavi served as president for 11 years until he was removed in 2009. Ali Mo'alem Damghani was selected as second president of Academy in December 2009 by the Supreme Council of Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe academy consists of the president of the country as the supreme chancellor of the academies, the board of trustees, the general assembly, the president of the academy, and the experts council.\n\nThe academy has nine specialized departments as follows:\n\nAmong the major objectives of the Iranian Academy of Arts are: proposing policies for the preservation and promotion of Islamic, national and local arts; research and utilization of new art theories with reliance on the national and Islamic fundamentals; support and encouragement of basic research and following up the implementation of art projects and studies at national level; annual evaluation of art indices in the country; and studying the shortcomings of the educational system of the country in the field of art and offering proposals to the related institutions.\n\nThe Academy has three types of members including permanent, associate and honorary members. All members are admitted on the proposal of the president of the Academy or that of at least five members of General Assembly and approval of the General Assembly and acknowledgment of the President of the Academy. All regular members must be at least associate professors, or be among Iranian prominent artists and hold Iranian nationality. Foreign outstanding artists and art researchers can be admitted as honorary members into Academy.\n\nAccording to article 16 of the Academy’s charter, the Iranian Academy of Arts will have thirty regular members, all experts and artists active in various fields, twenty of whom will be elected by the Art Council’s nomination and the Cultural Revolution Supreme Council’s approval, and the remaining ten will be elected by the latter twenty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322915", "title": "Italian Renaissance", "text": "Italian Renaissance\n\nThe Italian Renaissance ( ) was a period of European history that began in Italy in the 14th century (Trecento) and lasted until the 17th century (Seicento), marking the transition from the Middle Ages to Modernity. The French word \"renaissance\" (\"Rinascimento\" in Italian) means \"Rebirth\" and defines the period as one of cultural revival and renewed interest in classical antiquity after the centuries labeled the Dark Ages by Renaissance humanists. The Renaissance author Giorgio Vasari used the term \"Rebirth\" in his \"Lives of the Most Excellent Painters, Sculptors, and Architects\" but the concept became widespread only in the 19th century, after the works of scholars such as Jules Michelet and Jacob Burckhardt.\n\nThe European Renaissance began in Tuscany (Central Italy), and was centred in the city of Florence. Florence, one of the several city-states of the peninsula, rose to economic prominence by providing credit for European monarchs and laying down the groundwork for capitalism and banking. The Renaissance later spread to Venice, heart of a mediterranean empire and in control of the trade routes with the east since the participation in the crusades and the voyages of Marco Polo, where the remains of ancient Greek culture were brought together and provided humanist scholars with new texts. Finally the Renaissance had a significant effect on the Papal States and Rome, largely rebuilt by Humanist and Renaissance popes (such as Alexander VI and Julius II), who were frequently involved in Italian politics, in arbitrating disputes between competing colonial powers and in opposing the Reformation.\n\nThe Italian Renaissance is best known for its achievements in painting, architecture, sculpture, literature, music, philosophy, science and exploration. Italy became the recognized European leader in all these areas by the late 15th century, during the Peace of Lodi (1454-1494) agreed between Italian states. The Italian Renaissance peaked in the mid-16th century as domestic disputes and foreign invasions plunged the region into the turmoil of the Italian Wars (1494-1559). However, the ideas and ideals of the Italian Renaissance endured and spread into the rest of Europe, setting off the Northern Renaissance. Italian explorers from the maritime republics served under the auspices of European monarchs, ushering the Age of discovery. The most famous among them are Christopher Columbus who served for Spain, Giovanni da Verrazzano for France, Amerigo Vespucci for Portugal, and John Cabot for England. Italian universities attracted polymaths and scholars such as Copernicus, Vesalius, Galileo and Torricelli, playing a key role in the scientific revolution. Various events and dates of the 17th century, such as the conclusion of the European Wars of Religion in 1648, have been proposed for the end of the Renaissance.\n\nAccounts of Renaissance literature usually begin with the three great poets of the 14th century: Dante Alighieri (\"Divine Comedy\"), Petrarch (\"Canzoniere\") and Boccaccio (\"Decameron\"). Famous vernacular poets of the Renaissance include the renaissance epic authors Luigi Pulci (author of \"Morgante\"), Matteo Maria Boiardo (\"Orlando Innamorato\"), Ludovico Ariosto (\"Orlando Furioso\") and Torquato Tasso (\"Jerusalem Delivered\"). 15th-century writers such as the poet Poliziano and the Platonist philosopher Marsilio Ficino made extensive translations from both Latin and Greek. In the early 16th century, Castiglione laid out his vision of the ideal gentleman and lady in \"The Book of the Courtier\", while Machiavelli cast a jaundiced eye on \"la verità effettuale della cosa\"—the actual truth of things—in \"The Prince\", composed, in humanistic style, chiefly of parallel ancient and modern examples of Virtù. Historians of the period include Machiavelli himself, his friend and critic Francesco Guicciardini and Giovanni Botero (\"The Reason of State\"). The Aldine Press, founded by the printer Aldo Manuzio, active in Venice, developed Italic type and portable printed books that could be carried in one's pocket, as well as being the first to publish editions of books in Ancient Greek. Venice also became the birthplace of the Commedia dell'Arte.\n\nItalian Renaissance art exercised a dominant influence on subsequent European painting and sculpture for centuries afterwards, with artists such as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, Donatello, Giotto di Bondone, Masaccio, Fra Angelico, Piero della Francesca, Domenico Ghirlandaio, Perugino, Botticelli, and Titian. The same is true for architecture, as practiced by Brunelleschi, Leon Battista Alberti, Andrea Palladio, and Bramante. Their works include, to name only a few, the Florence Cathedral, St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, and the Tempio Malatestiano in Rimini, as well as several private residences. The musical era of the Italian Renaissance was defined by the Roman School and later by the Venetian School and the birth of Opera in Florence. In philosophy, thinkers such as Galileo, Machiavelli, Giordano Bruno and Pico della Mirandola, emphasized naturalism and humanism, thus rejecting dogma and scholasticism.\n\nBy the Late Middle Ages (circa 1300 onward), Latium, the former heartland of the Roman Empire, and southern Italy were generally poorer than the North. Rome was a city of ancient ruins, and the Papal States were loosely administered, and vulnerable to external interference such as that of France, and later Spain. The Papacy was affronted when the Avignon Papacy was created in southern France as a consequence of pressure from King Philip the Fair of France. In the south, Sicily had for some time been under foreign domination, by the Arabs and then the Normans. Sicily had prospered for 150 years during the Emirate of Sicily and later for two centuries during the Norman Kingdom and the Hohenstaufen Kingdom, but had declined by the late Middle Ages.\n\nIn contrast, Northern and Central Italy had become far more prosperous, and it has been calculated that the region was among the richest of Europe. The Crusades had built lasting trade links to the Levant, and the Fourth Crusade had done much to destroy the Byzantine Roman Empire as a commercial rival to the Venetians and Genoese. The main trade routes from the east passed through the Byzantine Empire or the Arab lands and onward to the ports of Genoa, Pisa, and Venice. Luxury goods bought in the Levant, such as spices, dyes, and silks were imported to Italy and then resold throughout Europe. Moreover, the inland city-states profited from the rich agricultural land of the Po valley. From France, Germany, and the Low Countries, through the medium of the Champagne fairs, land and river trade routes brought goods such as wool, wheat, and precious metals into the region. The extensive trade that stretched from Egypt to the Baltic generated substantial surpluses that allowed significant investment in mining and agriculture. Thus, while northern Italy was not richer in resources than many other parts of Europe, the level of development, stimulated by trade, allowed it to prosper. In particular, Florence became one of the wealthiest of the cities of Northern Italy, mainly due to its woolen textile production, developed under the supervision of its dominant trade guild, the \"Arte della Lana\". Wool was imported from Northern Europe (and in the 16th century from Spain) and together with dyes from the east were used to make high quality textiles.\n\nThe Italian trade routes that covered the Mediterranean and beyond were also major conduits of culture and knowledge. The\nrecovery of lost Greek classics (and, to a lesser extent, Arab advancements on them) following the Crusader conquest of the Byzantine heartlands, revitalized medieval philosophy in the Renaissance of the 12th century, just as the refugee Byzantine scholars who migrated to Italy during and following the Turkish conquest of the Byzantines between the 12th and 15th centuries were important in sparking the new linguistic studies of the Renaissance, in newly created academies in Florence and Venice. Humanist scholars searched monastic libraries for ancient manuscripts and recovered Tacitus and other Latin authors. The rediscovery of Vitruvius meant that the architectural principles of Antiquity could be observed once more, and Renaissance artists were encouraged, in the atmosphere of humanist optimism, to excel the achievements of the Ancients, like Apelles, of whom they read.\n\nIn the 13th century, much of Europe experienced strong economic growth. The trade routes of the Italian states linked with those of established Mediterranean ports and eventually the Hanseatic League of the Baltic and northern regions of Europe to create a network economy in Europe for the first time since the 4th century. The city-states of Italy expanded greatly during this period and grew in power to become de facto fully independent of the Holy Roman Empire; apart from the Kingdom of Naples, outside powers kept their armies out of Italy. During this period, the modern commercial infrastructure developed, with double-entry book-keeping, joint stock companies, an international banking system, a systematized foreign exchange market, insurance, and government debt. Florence became the centre of this financial industry and the gold florin became the main currency of international trade.\n\nThe new mercantile governing class, who gained their position through financial skill, adapted to their purposes the feudal aristocratic model that had dominated Europe in the Middle Ages. A feature of the High Middle Ages in Northern Italy was the rise of the urban communes which had broken from the control by bishops and local counts. In much of the region, the landed nobility was poorer than the urban patriarchs in the High Medieval money economy whose inflationary rise left land-holding aristocrats impoverished. The increase in trade during the early Renaissance enhanced these characteristics. The decline of feudalism and the rise of cities influenced each other; for example, the demand for luxury goods led to an increase in trade, which led to greater numbers of tradesmen becoming wealthy, who, in turn, demanded more luxury goods. This atmosphere of assumed luxury of the time created a need for the creation of visual symbols of wealth, an important way to show a family’s affluence and taste.\n\nThis change also gave the merchants almost complete control of the governments of the Italian city-states, again enhancing trade. One of the most important effects of this political control was security. Those that grew extremely wealthy in a feudal state ran constant risk of running afoul of the monarchy and having their lands confiscated, as famously occurred to Jacques Coeur in France. The northern states also kept many medieval laws that severely hampered commerce, such as those against usury, and prohibitions on trading with non-Christians. In the city-states of Italy, these laws were repealed or rewritten.\n\nThe 14th century saw a series of catastrophes that caused the European economy to go into recession. The Medieval Warm Period was ending as the transition to the Little Ice Age began. This change in climate saw agricultural output decline significantly, leading to repeated famines, exacerbated by the rapid population growth of the earlier era. The Hundred Years' War between England and France disrupted trade throughout northwest Europe, most notably when, in 1345, King Edward III of England repudiated his debts, contributing to the collapse of the two largest Florentine banks, those of the Bardi and Peruzzi. In the east, war was also disrupting trade routes, as the Ottoman Empire began to expand throughout the region. Most devastating, though, was the Black Death that decimated the populations of the densely populated cities of Northern Italy and returned at intervals thereafter. Florence, for instance, which had a pre-plague population of 45,000 decreased over the next 47 years by 25–50%. Widespread disorder followed, including a revolt of Florentine textile workers, the \"ciompi\", in 1378.\n\nIt was during this period of instability that the Renaissance authors such as Dante and Petrarch lived, and the first stirrings of Renaissance art were to be seen, notably in the realism of Giotto. Paradoxically, some of these disasters would help establish the Renaissance. The Black Death wiped out a third of Europe's population. The resulting labour shortage increased wages and the reduced population was therefore much wealthier, better fed, and, significantly, had more surplus money to spend on luxury goods. As incidences of the plague began to decline in the early 15th century, Europe's devastated population once again began to grow. The new demand for products and services also helped create a growing class of bankers, merchants, and skilled artisans. The horrors of the Black Death and the seeming inability of the Church to provide relief would contribute to a decline of church influence. Additionally, the collapse of the Bardi and Peruzzi banks would open the way for the Medici to rise to prominence in Florence. Roberto Sabatino Lopez argues that the economic collapse was a crucial cause of the Renaissance. According to this view, in a more prosperous era, businessmen would have quickly reinvested their earnings in order to make more money in a climate favourable to investment. However, in the leaner years of the 14th century, the wealthy found few promising investment opportunities for their earnings and instead chose to spend more on culture and art.\n\nAnother popular explanation for the Italian Renaissance is the thesis, first advanced by historian Hans Baron, that states that the primary impetus of the early Renaissance was the long-running series of wars between Florence and Milan. By the late 14th century, Milan had become a centralized monarchy under the control of the Visconti family. Giangaleazzo Visconti, who ruled the city from 1378 to 1402, was renowned both for his cruelty and for his abilities, and set about building an empire in Northern Italy. He launched a long series of wars, with Milan steadily conquering neighbouring states and defeating the various coalitions led by Florence that sought in vain to halt the advance. This culminated in the 1402 siege of Florence, when it looked as though the city was doomed to fall, before Giangaleazzo suddenly died and his empire collapsed.\n\nBaron's thesis suggests that during these long wars, the leading figures of Florence rallied the people by presenting the war as one between the free republic and a despotic monarchy, between the ideals of the Greek and Roman Republics and those of the Roman Empire and Medieval kingdoms. For Baron, the most important figure in crafting this ideology was Leonardo Bruni. This time of crisis in Florence was the period when the most influential figures of the early Renaissance were coming of age, such as Ghiberti, Donatello, Masolino, and Brunelleschi. Inculcated with this republican ideology they later went on to advocate republican ideas that were to have an enormous impact on the Renaissance.\n\nNorthern Italy and upper Central Italy were divided into a number of warring city-states, the most powerful being Milan, Florence, Pisa, Siena, Genoa, Ferrara, Mantua, Verona and Venice. High Medieval Northern Italy was further divided by the long-running battle for supremacy between the forces of the Papacy and of the Holy Roman Empire: each city aligned itself with one faction or the other, yet was divided internally between the two warring parties, Guelfs and Ghibellines. Warfare between the states was common, invasion from outside Italy confined to intermittent sorties of Holy Roman Emperors. Renaissance politics developed from this background. Since the 13th century, as armies became primarily composed of mercenaries, prosperous city-states could field considerable forces, despite their low populations. In the course of the 15th century, the most powerful city-states annexed their smaller neighbors. Florence took Pisa in 1406, Venice captured Padua and Verona, while the Duchy of Milan annexed a number of nearby areas including Pavia and Parma.\n\nThe first part of the Renaissance saw almost constant warfare on land and sea as the city-states vied for preeminence. On land, these wars were primarily fought by armies of mercenaries known as \"condottieri\", bands of soldiers drawn from around Europe, but especially Germany and Switzerland, led largely by Italian captains. The mercenaries were not willing to risk their lives unduly, and war became one largely of sieges and maneuvering, occasioning few pitched battles. It was also in the interest of mercenaries on both sides to prolong any conflict, to continue their employment. Mercenaries were also a constant threat to their employers; if not paid, they often turned on their patron. If it became obvious that a state was entirely dependent on mercenaries, the temptation was great for the mercenaries to take over the running of it themselves—this occurred on a number of occasions.\n\nAt sea, Italian city-states sent many fleets out to do battle. The main contenders were Pisa, Genoa, and Venice, but after a long conflict the Genoese succeeded in reducing Pisa. Venice proved to be a more powerful adversary, and with the decline of Genoese power during the 15th century Venice became pre-eminent on the seas. In response to threats from the landward side, from the early 15th century Venice developed an increased interest in controlling the \"terrafirma\" as the Venetian Renaissance opened.\n\nOn land, decades of fighting saw Florence, Milan and Venice emerge as the dominant players, and these three powers finally set aside their differences and agreed to the Peace of Lodi in 1454, which saw relative calm brought to the region for the first time in centuries. This peace would hold for the next forty years, and Venice's unquestioned hegemony over the sea also led to unprecedented peace for much of the rest of the 15th century. In the beginning of the 15th century, adventurer and traders such as Niccolò Da Conti (1395–1469) traveled as far as Southeast Asia and back, bringing fresh knowledge on the state of the world, presaging further European voyages of exploration in the years to come.\n\nUntil the late 14th century, prior to the Medici, Florence's leading family were the House of Albizzi. In 1293 the Ordinances of Justice were enacted which effectively became the constitution of the republic of Florence throughout the Italian Renaissance. The city's numerous luxurious palazzi were becoming surrounded by townhouses, built by the ever prospering merchant class. In 1298, one of the leading banking families of Europe, the Bonsignoris, were bankrupted and so the city of Siena lost her status as the banking center of Europe to Florence.\n\nThe main challengers of the Albizzi family were the Medicis, first under Giovanni de' Medici, later under his son Cosimo di Giovanni de' Medici. The Medici controlled the Medici bank—then Europe's largest bank—and an array of other enterprises in Florence and elsewhere. In 1433, the Albizzi managed to have Cosimo exiled. The next year, however, saw a pro-Medici Signoria elected and Cosimo returned. The Medici became the town's leading family, a position they would hold for the next three centuries. Florence remained a republic until 1537, traditionally marking the end of the High Renaissance in Florence, but the instruments of republican government were firmly under the control of the Medici and their allies, save during the intervals after 1494 and 1527. Cosimo and Lorenzo rarely held official posts, but were the unquestioned leaders.\n\nCosimo de' Medici was highly popular among the citizenry, mainly for bringing an era of stability and prosperity to the town. One of his most important accomplishments was negotiating the Peace of Lodi with Francesco Sforza ending the decades of war with Milan and bringing stability to much of Northern Italy. Cosimo was also an important patron of the arts, directly and indirectly, by the influential example he set.\n\nCosimo was succeeded by his sickly son Piero de' Medici, who died after five years in charge of the city. In 1469 the reins of power passed to Cosimo's twenty-one-year-old grandson Lorenzo, who would become known as \"Lorenzo the Magnificent.\" Lorenzo was the first of the family to be educated from an early age in the humanist tradition and is best known as one of the Renaissance's most important patrons of the arts. Under Lorenzo, the Medici rule was formalized with the creation of a new Council of Seventy, which Lorenzo headed. The republican institutions continued, but they lost all power. Lorenzo was less successful than his illustrious forebears in business, and the Medici commercial empire was slowly eroded. Lorenzo continued the alliance with Milan, but relations with the papacy soured, and in 1478, Papal agents allied with the Pazzi family in an attempt to assassinate Lorenzo. Although the plot failed, Lorenzo's young brother, Giuliano, was killed, and the failed assassination led to a war with the Papacy and was used as justification to further centralize power in Lorenzo's hands.\n\nRenaissance ideals first spread from Florence to the neighbouring states of Tuscany such as Siena and Lucca. The Tuscan culture soon became the model for all the states of Northern Italy, and the Tuscan variety of Italian came to predominate throughout the region, especially in literature. In 1447 Francesco Sforza came to power in Milan and rapidly transformed that still medieval city into a major centre of art and learning that drew Leone Battista Alberti. Venice, one of the wealthiest cities due to its control of the Adriatic Sea, also became a centre for Renaissance culture, especially architecture. Smaller courts brought Renaissance patronage to lesser cities, which developed their characteristic arts: Ferrara, Mantua under the Gonzaga, and Urbino under Federico da Montefeltro. In Naples, the Renaissance was ushered in under the patronage of Alfonso I who conquered Naples in 1443 and encouraged artists like Francesco Laurana and Antonello da Messina and writers like the poet Jacopo Sannazaro and the humanist scholar Angelo Poliziano.\n\nIn 1417 the Papacy returned to Rome, but that once imperial city remained poor and largely in ruins through the first years of the Renaissance. The great transformation began under Pope Nicholas V, who became pontiff in 1447. He launched a dramatic rebuilding effort that would eventually see much of the city renewed. The humanist scholar Aeneas Silvius Piccolomini became Pope Pius II in 1458. As the papacy fell under the control of the wealthy families, such as the Medici and the Borgias the spirit of Renaissance art and philosophy came to dominate the Vatican. Pope Sixtus IV continued Nicholas' work, most famously ordering the construction of the Sistine Chapel. The popes also became increasingly secular rulers as the Papal States were forged into a centralized power by a series of \"warrior popes\".\n\nThe nature of the Renaissance also changed in the late 15th century. The Renaissance ideal was fully adopted by the ruling classes and the aristocracy. In the early Renaissance artists were seen as craftsmen with little prestige or recognition. By the later Renaissance the top figures wielded great influence and could charge great fees. A flourishing trade in Renaissance art developed. While in the early Renaissance many of the leading artists were of lower- or middle-class origins, increasingly they became aristocrats.\n\nAs a cultural movement, the Italian Renaissance affected only a small part of the population. Italy was the most urbanized region of Europe, but three quarters of the people were still rural peasants. For this section of the population, life remained essentially unchanged from the Middle Ages. Classic feudalism had never been prominent in Northern Italy, and most peasants worked on private farms or as sharecroppers. Some scholars see a trend towards refeudalization in the later Renaissance as the urban elites turned themselves into landed aristocrats.\n\nThe situation differed in the cities. These were dominated by a commercial elite; as exclusive as the aristocracy of any Medieval kingdom. This group became the main patrons of and audience for Renaissance culture. Below them there was a large class of artisans and guild members who lived comfortable lives and had significant power in the republican governments. This was in sharp contrast to the rest of Europe where artisans were firmly in the lower class. Literate and educated, this group did participate in the Renaissance culture. The largest section of the urban population was the urban poor of semi-skilled workers and the unemployed. Like the peasants, the Renaissance had little effect on them. Historians debate how easy it was to move between these groups during the Italian Renaissance. Examples of individuals who rose from humble beginnings can be instanced, but Burke notes two major studies in this area that have found that the data do not clearly demonstrate an increase in social mobility. Most historians feel that early in the Renaissance social mobility was quite high, but that it faded over the course of the 15th century. Inequality in society was very high. An upper-class figure would control hundreds of times more income than a servant or labourer. Some historians see this unequal distribution of wealth as important to the Renaissance, as art patronage relies on the very wealthy.\n\nThe Renaissance was not a period of great social or economic change, only of cultural and ideological development. It only touched a small fraction of the population, and in modern times this has led many historians, such as any that follow historical materialism, to reduce the importance of the Renaissance in human history. These historians tend to think in terms of \"Early Modern Europe\" instead. Roger Osborne argues that \"The Renaissance is a difficult concept for historians because the history of Europe quite suddenly turns into a history of Italian painting, sculpture and architecture.\"\n\nThe end of the Renaissance is as imprecisely marked as its starting point. For many, the rise to power in Florence of the austere monk Girolamo Savonarola in 1494-1498 marks the end of the city's flourishing; for others, the triumphant return of the Medici family to power in 1512 marks the beginning of the late phase in the Renaissance arts called Mannerism. Other accounts trace the end of the Italian Renaissance to the French invasions of the early 16th century and the subsequent conflict between France and Spanish rulers for control of Italian territory. Savonarola rode to power on a widespread backlash over the secularism and indulgence of the Renaissance – his brief rule saw many works of art destroyed in the \"Bonfire of the Vanities\" in the centre of Florence. With the Medici returned to power, now as Grand Dukes of Tuscany, the counter movement in the church continued. In 1542 the Sacred Congregation of the Inquisition was formed and a few years later the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" banned a wide array of Renaissance works of literature, which marks the end of the illuminated manuscript together with Giulio Clovio, who is considered the greatest illuminator of the Italian High Renaissance, and arguably the last very notable artist in the long tradition of the illuminated manuscript, before some modern revivals.\n\nEqually important was the end of stability with a series of foreign invasions of Italy known as the Italian Wars that would continue for several decades. These began with the 1494 invasion by France that wreaked widespread devastation on Northern Italy and ended the independence of many of the city-states. Most damaging was the May 6, 1527, Spanish and German troops' sacking Rome that for two decades all but ended the role of the Papacy as the largest patron of Renaissance art and architecture.\n\nWhile the Italian Renaissance was fading, the Northern Renaissance adopted many of its ideals and transformed its styles. A number of Italy's greatest artists chose to emigrate. The most notable example was Leonardo da Vinci who left for France in 1516, but teams of lesser artists invited to transform the Château de Fontainebleau created the school of Fontainebleau that infused the style of the Italian Renaissance in France. From Fontainebleau, the new styles, transformed by Mannerism, brought the Renaissance to Antwerp and thence throughout Northern Europe.\n\nThis spread north was also representative of a larger trend. No longer was the Mediterranean Europe's most important trade route. In 1498, Vasco da Gama reached India, and from that date the primary route of goods from the Orient was through the Atlantic ports of Lisbon, Seville, Nantes, Bristol, and London.\n\nThe thirteenth-century Italian literary revolution helped set the stage for the Renaissance. Prior to the Renaissance, the Italian language was not the literary language in Italy. It was only in the 13th century that Italian authors began writing in their native language rather than Latin, French, or Provençal. The 1250s saw a major change in Italian poetry as the \"Dolce Stil Novo\" (\"Sweet New Style\", which emphasized Platonic rather than courtly love) came into its own, pioneered by poets like Guittone d'Arezzo and Guido Guinizelli. Especially in poetry, major changes in Italian literature had been taking place decades before the Renaissance truly began.\n\nWith the printing of books initiated in Venice by Aldus Manutius, an increasing number of works began to be published in the Italian language in addition to the flood of Latin and Greek texts that constituted the mainstream of the Italian Renaissance. The source for these works expanded beyond works of theology and towards the pre-Christian eras of Imperial Rome and Ancient Greece. This is not to say that no religious works were published in this period: Dante Alighieri's \"The Divine Comedy\" reflects a distinctly medieval world view. Christianity remained a major influence for artists and authors, with the classics coming into their own as a second primary influence.\n\nIn the early Italian Renaissance, much of the focus was on translating and studying classic works from Latin and Greek. Renaissance authors were not content to rest on the laurels of ancient authors, however. Many authors attempted to integrate the methods and styles of the ancient Greeks into their own works. Among the most emulated Romans are Cicero, Horace, Sallust, and Virgil. Among the Greeks, Aristotle, Homer, and Plato were now being read in the original for the first time since the 4th century, though Greek compositions were few.\n\nThe literature and poetry of the Renaissance was largely influenced by the developing science and philosophy. The humanist Francesco Petrarch, a key figure in the renewed sense of scholarship, was also an accomplished poet, publishing several important works of poetry. He wrote poetry in Latin, notably the Punic War epic \"Africa\", but is today remembered for his works in the Italian vernacular, especially the \"Canzoniere\", a collection of love sonnets dedicated to his unrequited love Laura. He was the foremost writer of sonnets in Italian, and translations of his work into English by Thomas Wyatt established the sonnet form in that country, where it was employed by William Shakespeare and countless other poets.\n\nPetrarch's disciple, Giovanni Boccaccio, became a major author in his own right. His major work was the \"Decameron\", a collection of 100 stories told by ten storytellers who have fled to the outskirts of Florence to escape the black plague over ten nights. The \"Decameron\" in particular and Boccaccio's work in general were a major source of inspiration and plots for many English authors in the Renaissance, including Geoffrey Chaucer and William Shakespeare.\n\nAside from Christianity, classical antiquity, and scholarship, a fourth influence on Renaissance literature was politics. The political philosopher Niccolò Machiavelli's most famous works are \"Discourses on Livy\", \"Florentine Histories\" and finally \"The Prince\", which has become so well known in Western society that the term \"Machiavellian\" has come to refer to the \"realpolitik\" advocated by the book. However, what is ordinarily called \"Machiavellianism\" is a simplified textbook view of this single work rather than an accurate term for his philosophy. Further, it is not at all clear that Machiavelli himself was the apologist for immorality as whom he is often portrayed: the basic problem is the apparent contradiction between the monarchism of \"The Prince\" and the republicanism of the \"Discourses\". Regardless, along with many other Renaissance works, \"The Prince\" remains a relevant and influential work of literature today.\n\nOne role of Petrarch is as the founder of a new method of scholarship, Renaissance Humanism.\n\nPetrarch encouraged the study of the Latin classics and carried his copy of Homer about, at a loss to find someone to teach him to read Greek. An essential step in the humanist education being propounded by scholars like Pico della Mirandola was the hunting down of lost or forgotten manuscripts that were known only by reputation. These endeavors were greatly aided by the wealth of Italian patricians, merchant-princes and despots, who would spend substantial sums building libraries. Discovering the past had become fashionable and it was a passionate affair pervading the upper reaches of society. \"I go\", said Cyriac of Ancona, \"I go to awake the dead\". As the Greek works were acquired, manuscripts found, libraries and museums formed, the age of the printing press was dawning. The works of Antiquity were translated from Greek and Latin into the contemporary modern languages throughout Europe, finding a receptive middle-class audience, which might be, like Shakespeare, \"with little Latin and less Greek\".\n\nWhile concern for philosophy, art and literature all increased greatly in the Renaissance the period is usually seen as one of scientific backwardness. The reverence for classical sources further enshrined the Aristotelian and Ptolemaic views of the universe. Humanism stressed that nature came to be viewed as an animate spiritual creation that was not governed by laws or mathematics. At the same time philosophy lost much of its rigour as the rules of logic and deduction were seen as secondary to intuition and emotion.\n\nAccording to some recent scholarship, the 'father of modern science' is Leonardo da Vinci whose experiments and clear scientific method earn him this title, Italian universities such as Padua, Bologna and Pisa were scientific centres of renown and with many northern European students, the science of the Renaissance moved to Northern Europe and flourished there, with such figures as Copernicus, Francis Bacon, and Descartes. Galileo, a contemporary of Bacon and Descartes, made an immense contribution to scientific thought and experimentation, paving the way for the scientific revolution that later flourished in Northern Europe.\nBodies were also stolen from gallows and examined by many like Vesalius, a professor of anatomy. This allowed them to create accurate skeleton models and correct previously believed theories. For example, many thought that the human jawbone was made up of two bones, as they had seen this on animals. However through examining human corpses they were able to understand that humans actually have only one.\n\nIn painting, the false dawn of Giotto's Trecento realism, his fully three-dimensional figures occupying a rational space, and his humanist interest in expressing the individual personality rather than the iconic images, was followed by a retreat into conservative late Gothic conventions.\n\nThe Italian Renaissance in painting began anew, in Florence and Tuscany, with the frescoes of Masaccio, then the panel paintings and frescos of Piero della Francesca and Paolo Uccello which began to enhance the realism of their work by using new techniques in perspective, thus representing three dimensions in two-dimensional art more authentically. The figures in Masaccio's frescos painted between 1425 and his death in 1428 have a plasticity unknown up to that point in time. Compared to the flatness of Gothic painting, his pictures were revolutionary. Piero della Francesca wrote treatises on scientific perspective. The creation of credible space allowed artists to also focus on the accurate representation of the human body and on naturalistic landscapes. Completed in 1460, the San Zeno Altarpiece of Andrea Mantegna, was probably the first good example of Renaissance painting in Northern Italy and became a model for other painters in the region. At the turn of the 16th century, especially in Northern Italy, artists also began to use new techniques in the manipulation of light and darkness, such as the tone contrast evident in many of Titian's portraits and the development of sfumato and chiaroscuro by Leonardo da Vinci and Giorgione. The period also saw the first secular (non-religious) themes. There has been much debate as to the degree of secularism in the Renaissance, which had been emphasized by early 20th-century writers like Jacob Burckhardt, based on, among other things, the presence of a relatively small number of mythological paintings. Those of Botticelli, notably \"The Birth of Venus\" and \"Primavera\", are now among the best known, although he was deeply religious (becoming a follower of Savonarola) and the great majority of his output was of traditional religious paintings or portraits.\n\nIn sculpture, Donatello's (1386–1466) study of classical sculpture led to his development of classicizing positions (such as the contrapposto pose) and subject matter (like the unsupported nude – his second sculpture of \"David\" was the first free-standing bronze nude created in Europe since the Roman Empire.) The progress made by Donatello was influential on all who followed; perhaps the greatest of whom is Michelangelo, whose \"David\" of 1500 is also a male nude study; more naturalistic than Donatello's and with greater emotional intensity. Both sculptures are standing in \"contrapposto\", their weight shifted to one leg.\n\nThe period known as the High Renaissance of painting was the culmination of the varied means of expression and various advances in painting technique, such as linear perspective, the realistic depiction of both physical and psychological features, and the manipulation of light and darkness, including tone contrast, sfumato (softening the transition between colours) and chiaroscuro (contrast between light and dark), in a single unifying style which expressed total compositional order, balance and harmony. In particular, the individual parts of the painting had a complex but balanced and well-knit relationship to the whole. The most famous painters from this phase are Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, and Michelangelo and their images, including Leonardo's the \"Last Supper\" and \"Mona Lisa\", Raphael's \"The School of Athens\" and Michelangelo's \"Sistine Chapel Ceiling\" are the masterpieces of the period and among the most widely known works of art in the world.\n\nHigh Renaissance painting evolved into Mannerism, especially in Florence. Mannerist artists, who consciously rebelled against the principles of High Renaissance, tend to represent elongated figures in illogical spaces. Modern scholarship has recognized the capacity of Mannerist art to convey strong (often religious) emotion where the High Renaissance failed to do so. Some of the main artists of this period are Pontormo, Bronzino, Rosso Fiorentino, Parmigianino and Raphael's pupil Giulio Romano.\n\nIn Florence, the Renaissance style was introduced with a revolutionary but incomplete monument in Rimini by Leone Battista Alberti. Some of the earliest buildings showing Renaissance characteristics are Filippo Brunelleschi's church of San Lorenzo and the Pazzi Chapel. The interior of \"Santo Spirito\" expresses a new sense of light, clarity and spaciousness, which is typical of the early Italian Renaissance. Its architecture reflects the philosophy of Humanism, the enlightenment and clarity of mind as opposed to the darkness and spirituality of the Middle Ages. The revival of classical antiquity can best be illustrated by the Palazzo Rucellai. Here the pilasters follow the superposition of classical orders, with Doric capitals on the ground floor, Ionic capitals on the \"piano nobile\" and Corinthian capitals on the uppermost floor. Soon, Renaissance architects favored grand, large domes over tall and imposing spires, doing away with the Gothic style of the predating ages.\n\nIn Mantua, Leone Battista Alberti ushered in the new antique style, though his culminating work, Sant'Andrea, was not begun until 1472, after the architect's death.\nThe High Renaissance, as we call the style today, was introduced to Rome with Donato Bramante's Tempietto at San Pietro in Montorio (1502) and his original centrally planned St. Peter's Basilica (1506), which was the most notable architectural commission of the era, influenced by almost all notable Renaissance artists, including Michelangelo and Giacomo della Porta. The beginning of the late Renaissance in 1550 was marked by the development of a new column order by Andrea Palladio. Colossal columns that were two or more stories tall decorated the facades.\n\nIn Italy during the 14th century there was an explosion of musical activity that corresponded in scope and level of innovation to the activity in the other arts. Although musicologists typically group the music of the Trecento (music of the 14th century) with the late medieval period, it included features which align with the early Renaissance in important ways: an increasing emphasis on secular sources, styles and forms; a spreading of culture away from ecclesiastical institutions to the nobility, and even to the common people; and a quick development of entirely new techniques. The principal forms were the Trecento madrigal, the caccia, and the ballata. Overall, the musical style of the period is sometimes labelled as the \"Italian ars nova.\" From the early 15th century to the middle of the 16th century, the center of innovation in sacred music was in the Low Countries, and a flood of talented composers came to Italy from this region. Many of them sang in either the papal choir in Rome or the choirs at the numerous chapels of the aristocracy, in Rome, Venice, Florence, Milan, Ferrara and elsewhere; and they brought their polyphonic style with them, influencing many native Italian composers during their stay.\n\nThe predominant forms of church music during the period were the mass and the motet. By far the most famous composer of church music in 16th-century Italy was Palestrina, the most prominent member of the Roman School, whose style of smooth, emotionally cool polyphony was to become the defining sound of the late 16th century, at least for generations of 19th- and 20th-century musicologists. Other Italian composers of the late 16th century focused on composing the main secular form of the era, the madrigal: and for almost a hundred years these secular songs for multiple singers were distributed all over Europe. Composers of madrigals included Jacques Arcadelt, at the beginning of the age, Cipriano de Rore, in the middle of the century, and Luca Marenzio, Philippe de Monte, Carlo Gesualdo, and Claudio Monteverdi at the end of the era. Italy was also a centre of innovation in instrumental music. By the early 16th century keyboard improvisation came to be greatly valued, and numerous composers of virtuoso keyboard music appeared. Many familiar instruments were invented and perfected in late Renaissance Italy, such as the violin, the earliest forms of which came into use in the 1550s.\n\nBy the late 16th century Italy was the musical centre of Europe. Almost all of the innovations which were to define the transition to the Baroque period originated in northern Italy in the last few decades of the century. In Venice, the polychoral productions of the Venetian School, and associated instrumental music, moved north into Germany; in Florence, the Florentine Camerata developed monody, the important precursor to opera, which itself first appeared around 1600; and the avant-garde, manneristic style of the Ferrara school, which migrated to Naples and elsewhere through the music of Carlo Gesualdo, was to be the final statement of the polyphonic vocal music of the Renaissance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2399986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399986", "title": "Kat Candler", "text": "Kat Candler\n\nKat Candler is an American independent filmmaker. She has credits as a director, writer, producer and film editor. Kat Candler graduated in Creative Writing at Florida State University and now lives in Austin, Texas.\n\nKat Candler’s award winning feature Hellion starring Aaron Paul and Juliette Lewis, played in competition at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival and was released theatrically through IFC Films. Hellion was a Sundance Creative Producing Lab participant and San Francisco Film Society/Kenneth Rainin Foundation Grant recipient. Candler was a 2015 Sundance Institute Women’s Initiative Fellow and second time San Francisco Film Society/Kenneth Rainin Foundation Grant recipient. In 2015 Candler led the Canon Project Imagination campaign by writing and directing the short film The Rusted executive produced by Ron Howard and starring Josh Hutcherson and Jena Malone. Candler's work in television includes directing four episodes of Ava DuVernay and Oprah Winfrey's highly acclaimed Queen Sugar, an episode of 12 Monkeys and overseeing Season 2 of Queen Sugar as the producing director.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34854129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34854129", "title": "Library.nu", "text": "Library.nu\n\nLibrary.nu, previously called ebooksclub.org from 2004 to 2007 and gigapedia.com from 2007 to 2010, was a popular linking website. It was accused of copyright infringement and it was shut down by court order on February 15, 2012. According to the takedown notice, it hosted some 400,000 ebooks.\n\nAccording to an article posted in the British \"The Sunday Times\", investigators believed that library.nu was operated by Irish nationals, possibly from Galway, through a server in Kiev.\n\nThis website was targeted by coordinated legal action from 17 publishers who obtained an injunction from a Munich court. The majority of the claimed infringing files were hosted on the iFile.it file hosting service, whose representatives however disclaimed a close relationship with Library.nu. In contrast, a representative of a private intellectual property agency hired by the book publishers stated that the \"owners and directors of iFile.it\" were the persons whose names appeared on the receipts of PayPal donations to Library.nu. According to TorrentFreak, \"the legal team of the publishers estimated the revenue based on page impressions as well as estimated income from premium accounts, but this figure is laughable according to the iFile.it owner, which makes sense considering the site’s modest size.\" The iFile.it owner also told TorrentFreak that \"they can barely cover the server costs with the revenue they make.\"\n\nThe URL \"library.nu\" was revoked by the .nu domain on 20 February 2012. Between the day of indictment and 24 February, library.nu redirected to Google Books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50336126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50336126", "title": "List of highest-grossing second weekends for films", "text": "List of highest-grossing second weekends for films\n\nThe following is a list of the highest-grossing second weekends for films. Usually by the second weekend, studios can have an idea of what the final gross may be now that factors such as word-of-mouth and increased competition are starting to show. Many films usually have big drops as they could be \"frontloaded\" as fans want to watch them on opening weekend to be first to see it, but some could stay relatively modest as word-of-mouth works in the films' favor. The following shows how much the film has dropped compared to its opening weekend. Like the highest-grossing openings, the list is dominated by recent films due to steadily increasing production and marketing budgets, and modern films opening on more screens. Another contributing factor is inflation not being taken into account.\n\nA list of films that grossed in excess of $50 million between the second Friday and second Sunday of release.\n\nThese are the films that, when first released, set the second three-day weekend record after going into wide release.\n\n"}
{"id": "51123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51123", "title": "Literary criticism", "text": "Literary criticism\n\nLiterary criticism (or literary studies) is the study, evaluation, and interpretation of literature. Modern literary criticism is often influenced by literary theory, which is the philosophical discussion of literature's goals and methods. Though the two activities are closely related, literary critics are not always, and have not always been, theorists.\n\nWhether or not literary criticism should be considered a separate field of inquiry from literary theory, or conversely from book reviewing, is a matter of some controversy. For example, the \"Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory and Criticism\" draws no distinction between literary theory and literary criticism, and almost always uses the terms together to describe the same concept. Some critics consider literary criticism a practical application of literary theory, because criticism always deals directly with particular literary works, while theory may be more general or abstract.\n\nLiterary criticism is often published in essay or book form. Academic literary critics teach in literature departments and publish in academic journals, and more popular critics publish their reviews in broadly circulating periodicals such as the \"Times Literary Supplement\", the \"New York Times Book Review\", the \"New York Review of Books\", the \"London Review of Books\", the \"Dublin Review of Books\", \"The Nation\", and \"The New Yorker\".\n\nLiterary criticism is thought to have existed as long as literature. In the 4th century BC Aristotle wrote the \"Poetics\", a typology and description of literary forms with many specific criticisms of contemporary works of art. \"Poetics\" developed for the first time the concepts of mimesis and catharsis, which are still crucial in literary studies. Plato's attacks on poetry as imitative, secondary, and false were formative as well. The Sanskrit \"Natya Shastra\" includes literary criticism on ancient Indian literature and Sanskrit drama.\n\nLater classical and medieval criticism often focused on religious texts, and the several long religious traditions of hermeneutics and textual exegesis have had a profound influence on the study of secular texts. This was particularly the case for the literary traditions of the three Abrahamic religions: Jewish literature, Christian literature and Islamic literature. \n\nLiterary criticism was also employed in other forms of medieval Arabic literature and Arabic poetry from the 9th century, notably by Al-Jahiz in his \"al-Bayan wa-'l-tabyin\" and \"al-Hayawan\", and by Abdullah ibn al-Mu'tazz in his \"Kitab al-Badi\".\n\nThe literary criticism of the Renaissance developed classical ideas of unity of form and content into literary neoclassicism, proclaiming literature as central to culture, entrusting the poet and the author with preservation of a long literary tradition. The birth of Renaissance criticism was in 1498, with the recovery of classic texts, most notably, Giorgio Valla's Latin translation of Aristotle's \"Poetics\". The work of Aristotle, especially \"Poetics\", was the most important influence upon literary criticism until the late eighteenth century. Lodovico Castelvetro was one of the most influential Renaissance critics who wrote commentaries on Aristotle's \"Poetics\" in 1570.\n\nIn the Enlightenment period (1700s to 1800s), literary criticism became more popular. During this time period literacy rates started to rise in the public, no longer was reading exclusive for the wealthy or scholarly. With the rise of the literate public and swiftness of printing, criticism arose too. Reading was no longer viewed solely as educational or as a sacred source of religion; it was a form of entertainment. Literary criticism was influenced by the values and stylistic writing, including clear, bold, precise writing and the more controversial criteria of the author's religious beliefs. These critical reviews were published in many magazines, newspapers, and journals. Many works of Jonathan Swift were criticized including his book \"Gulliver's Travels\", which one critic described as \"the detestable story of the Yahoos\".\n\nThe British Romantic movement of the early nineteenth century introduced new aesthetic ideas to literary studies, including the idea that the object of literature need not always be beautiful, noble, or perfect, but that literature itself could elevate a common subject to the level of the sublime. German Romanticism, which followed closely after the late development of German classicism, emphasized an aesthetic of fragmentation that can appear startlingly modern to the reader of English literature, and valued \"Witz\" – that is, \"wit\" or \"humor\" of a certain sort – more highly than the serious Anglophone Romanticism. The late nineteenth century brought renown to authors known more for their literary criticism than for their own literary work, such as Matthew Arnold.\n\nHowever important all of these aesthetic movements were as antecedents, current ideas about literary criticism derive almost entirely from the new direction taken in the early twentieth century. Early in the century the school of criticism known as Russian Formalism, and slightly later the New Criticism in Britain and in the United States, came to dominate the study and discussion of literature, in the English-speaking world. Both schools emphasized the close reading of texts, elevating it far above generalizing discussion and speculation about either authorial intention (to say nothing of the author's psychology or biography, which became almost taboo subjects) or reader response. This emphasis on form and precise attention to \"the words themselves\" has persisted, after the decline of these critical doctrines themselves.\n\nIn 1957 Northrop Frye published the influential \"Anatomy of Criticism\". In his works Frye noted that some critics tend to embrace an ideology, and to judge literary pieces on the basis of their adherence to such ideology. This has been a highly influential viewpoint among modern conservative thinkers. E. Michael Jones, for example, argues in his \"Degenerate Moderns\" that Stanley Fish was influenced by his adulterous affairs to reject classic literature that condemned adultery. Jürgen Habermas in \"Erkenntnis und Interesse\" [1968] (\"Knowledge and Human Interests\"), described literary critical theory in literary studies as a form of hermeneutics: knowledge via interpretation to understand the meaning of human texts and symbolic expressions—including the interpretation of texts which themselves interpret other texts.\n\nIn the British and American literary establishment, the New Criticism was more or less dominant until the late 1960s. Around that time Anglo-American university literature departments began to witness a rise of a more explicitly philosophical literary theory, influenced by structuralism, then post-structuralism, and other kinds of Continental philosophy. It continued until the mid-1980s, when interest in \"theory\" peaked. Many later critics, though undoubtedly still influenced by theoretical work, have been comfortable simply interpreting literature rather than writing explicitly about methodology and philosophical presumptions.\n\nRelated to other forms of literary criticism, the history of the book is a field of interdisciplinary inquiry drawing on the methods of bibliography, cultural history, history of literature, and media theory. Principally concerned with the production, circulation, and reception of texts and their material forms, book history seeks to connect forms of textuality with their material aspects.\n\nAmong the issues within the history of literature with which book history can be seen to intersect are: the development of authorship as a profession, the formation of reading audiences, the constraints of censorship and copyright, and the economics of literary form.\n\nToday, interest in literary theory and continental philosophy coexists in university literature departments with a more conservative literary criticism of which the New Critics would probably have approved. Disagreements over the goals and methods of literary criticism, which characterized both sides taken by critics during the \"rise\" of theory, have declined. Many critics feel that they now have a great plurality of methods and approaches from which to choose.\n\nSome critics work largely with theoretical texts, while others read traditional literature; interest in the literary canon is still great, but many critics are also interested in minority and women's literatures, while some critics influenced by cultural studies read popular texts like comic books or pulp/genre fiction. Ecocritics have drawn connections between literature and the natural sciences. Darwinian literary studies studies literature in the context of evolutionary influences on human nature. Many literary critics also work in film criticism or media studies. Some write intellectual history; others bring the results and methods of social history to bear on reading literature.\n\nThe value of extensive literary analysis has been questioned by several prominent artists. Vladimir Nabokov once wrote that good readers do not read books, and particularly those which are considered to be literary masterpieces, \"for the academic purpose of indulging in generalizations\". At a 1986 Copenhagen conference of James Joyce scholars, Stephen J. Joyce (the modernist writer's grandson) said, \"If my grandfather was here, he would have died laughing ... \"Dubliners\" and \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\" can be picked up, read, and enjoyed by virtually anybody without scholarly guides, theories, and intricate explanations, as can \"Ulysses\", if you forget about all the hue and cry.\" He later questioned whether anything has been added to the legacy of Joyce's art by the 261 books of literary criticism stored in the Library of Congress.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57601646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57601646", "title": "Madonna del Sacco", "text": "Madonna del Sacco\n\nMadonna del Sacco (literally \"Madonna of the Bag\") is an oil on panel painting by Perugino, dating to around 1495-1500. It shows the Madonna and Child with the infant John the Baptist and an angel. It is now in the Galleria Palatina in Florence.\n\nThe figure of Mary is stylistically close to that in the \"Madonna and Child\" and the \"Certosa di Pavia Altarpiece\", painted around the same time. She is modelled on Perugino's wife Chiara Fancelli.\n"}
{"id": "13377915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13377915", "title": "Murder in Space", "text": "Murder in Space\n\nMurder in Space is a 1985 science fiction murder mystery television movie set in the near future. The crew of an international space mission are on the return leg from Mars to Earth when an explosion occurs on the craft \"Conestoga\", shortly after a series of murders starts. The crew of the returning craft are forbidden to return until the murderer is caught.\n\nOn its initial premier, the film was shown without the ending and a competition was set for the viewers to solve the mystery of who the murderer or murderers were. The conclusion of the film was shown several days later, with the contestants eliminated one by one until the winner correctly identified the killer or killers. The final 30 minutes of the film was shown at a later date when the mystery was solved.\n\nOther cast members were reporters, wives and husbands, mission control staff and additional Russian characters.\n\n\nA novel also called \"Murder In Space\", published by Penguin, was produced around the same time; the last page of the book was an entry form for the competition to solve the mystery.\nIt was written by \"FX Woolf\", a pen-name for Howard Engels and Janet Hamilton.\n"}
{"id": "21854371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21854371", "title": "Niloofar Beyzaie", "text": "Niloofar Beyzaie\n\nNiloofar Beyzaie is an Iranian dramatist, Playwright and Stage Director.\n\nNiloofar Beyzaie is the daughter of the theater and film director Bahram Beyzaie (Bahram Beyzai) and Monir Azam Raminfar who comes from a family of artists. \nIn 1985 she had to leave Iran for political reasons and studied German Literature, Theater, Film and Television Studies and Education at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt am Main. After finishing her academic studies she founded 1994 the theater group \"Daritsche\". Since then she is leading this group as Director, Playwright, and light and costume designer.\n\nCentral themes of her theater work are \"woman\", \"the suffering of individuals among the crowd\" and \"being a stranger either in the own or in the foreign society\". She also puts emphasis on the sociopolitical context of the theater in its contemporary issues.\nIn addition to her theatrical work she writes articles about the political and social situation, particularly the situation of women in Iran.\nShe advocates for women's rights and for the rights of gays and lesbians in Iran and is involved in the Iranian art and cultural scene in exile for the rights of religious minorities in Iran, in particular the Bahais. \n2005, she was awarded the Persian \"World Academy of Art, Literature and Media\" in Budapest as the best theatre director in exile in category \"the Performing Arts\". \nIn the same year her play \"Daughters of the Sun\" (Come,dance with me) was performed in Zurich by Maralam Theater under direction of Peter Braschler.\n\nThe revival of her play \"No Man's Land\" was performed in German in March 2009 in Karlsruhe within the framework of the \"Cultural Perspectives of Women festival 09\".\nHer play \"Face to Face at the Threshold of the Cold Season\" is about two very important women of the Iranian history \"Tahirih Qurratu'l- ayn and Forough Farokhzad\" had its premiere in October 2011 \nHer Play \" In the presence of the Wind\" was written by her father in the sixties and was played in several cities of Europe and Germany from 2015 until oct. 2016.\nHer latest Play \"In this Place and at this Time\" (based on the stories of Mahshid Amirshahy) was played in Frankfurt,Collogne,Berlin and Heidelberg since Oct. 2017 and will be on Stage in some other cities in Europe until June 2018.\nّShe became for this Play the audience award for best Play from the iranian Theater Festival in Heildelberg at 3 February 2018.\nNiloofar Beyzaie was honored for her lifelong theater work on march 2. and 3. 2018 by \"the cultural society of iranian women\" in Vancouver. In this context, the play \"Lady in Mirror\", which consists of parts of her plays, was performed by the Theatre group Shahrzad.\n\nShe also received the Prize as the best Personalitiy of the year 2018 from the \"Foundation of Pasargad Heritage\" for the fields of Art and Culture on march 2018.\n\n\n\n\nList of famous Persian women\n"}
{"id": "39017605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39017605", "title": "Of This Men Shall Know Nothing", "text": "Of This Men Shall Know Nothing\n\nOf This Men Shall Know Nothing (German: Von diesem wissen Männer nichts) is oil on canvas painting by a German painter, sculptor, graphic artist, and poet Max Ernst. The painting was completed in 1923 in Paris, France. It is created in a Surrealism style by use of symbolic painting genre during First French period. The painting measure 81 by 64 centimeters and is now housed at Tate Gallery, London.\n\nThe painting shares several features with Silberer’s diagram: its landscape setting and low horizon; the gradation of the sky from light at the bottom to dark at the top; and the inclusion of the Sun and the Moon. Ernst replaced the cube of Primal Matter with a pile of entrails. Elsewhere Ernst also employed alchemical motifs, such as in this painting of the sexual conjunction of Sun and Moon.\n"}
{"id": "2110352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110352", "title": "Open music", "text": "Open music\n\nOpen music is music that is shareable, available in \"source code\" form, allows derivative works and is free of cost for non-commercial use. It is the concept of \"open source\" computer software applied to music. However, the non-commercial stipulation associated with Open Music is incompatible with the first section of the Open Source Definition as well as the first freedom put forth in The Free Software Definition (freedom 0). Open Music is one of the general responses to the RIAA's and governmental actions against the music industry and its consumers.\n\n\"Open music\" can be considered a subset of \"free music\" (referring to freedom). The differences of philosophy between advocates of \"open source software\" and \"free software\" have not surfaced in the community of musicians contributing music to the copyleft commons. This may be due to the relatively recent emergence of copyleft music, as well as to the fact that software development generally involves much more collaboration and derivatization than does music production. It is not clear that open collaboration using copyleft licenses provides any significant advantages in music production, as open source advocates commonly argue is the case for software development.\n\nSeveral websites have surfaced to provide musicians with the platform and tools necessary for online music collaboration. Most of these sites promote one or more of the Creative Commons licenses, allowing derivative works and sharing of the finished songs. Early implementations of these collaboration sites relied on threaded discussion forum software and FTP to provide a means for musicians to initiate and discuss projects, and to share multi-track files. More recent and modern sites provide robust project-management features, automatic encoding and compression, online playback streaming, web-based upload and download options, chat, and project-based discussion forums.\n\nThere are plenty of artists that use Creative Commons Licenses. One the most open licence is \"Creative Commons Attribution\" License.\n\n"}
{"id": "21468429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21468429", "title": "Puppet", "text": "Puppet\n\nA puppet is an object, often resembling a human, animal or mythical figure, that is animated or manipulated by a person called a puppeteer. The puppeteer uses movements of their hands, arms, or control devices such as rods or strings to move the body, head, limbs, and in some cases the mouth and eyes of the puppet. The puppeteer often speaks in the voice of the character of the puppet, and then synchronizes the movements of the puppet's mouth with this spoken part. The actions, gestures and spoken parts acted out by the puppeteer with the puppet are typically used in storytelling. Puppetry is a very ancient form of theatre which dates back to the 5th century BC in Ancient Greece. There are many different varieties of puppets, and they are made from a wide range of materials, depending on their form and intended use. They range from very simple in construction and operation to very complex.\n\nTwo simple types of puppets are the finger puppet, which is a tiny puppet that fits onto a single finger, and the sock puppet, which is formed and operated by inserting one's hand inside a sock, with the opening and closing of the hand simulating the movement of the puppet's \"mouth.\" The sock puppet is a type of hand puppet, which is controlled using one hand that occupies the interior of the puppet and moves the puppet around. A \"live-hand puppet\" is similar to a hand puppet but is larger and requires two puppeteers for each puppet. A Marionette is a much more complicated type of puppet that is suspended and controlled by a number of strings connected to the head, back and limbs, plus sometimes a central rod attached to a control bar held from above by the puppeteer.\n\nA rod puppet is constructed around a central rod secured to the head. A shadow puppet is a cut-out figure held between a source of light and a translucent screen. Bunraku puppets are a type of Japanese wood-carved puppet. A ventriloquist's dummy is a human-shaped puppet operated by a ventriloquist performer's hand; the performer produces the puppets voice with little or no movement of her mouth, which creates the illusion that the puppet is alive. Carnival puppets are large puppets, typically bigger than a human, designed to be part of a large spectacle or parade.\n\nPuppetry was practiced in Ancient Greece and the oldest written records of puppetry can be found in the works of Herodotus and Xenophon, dating from the 5th century BC. The Greek word translated as \"puppet\" is \"νευρόσπαστος\" (\"nevrospastos\"), which literally means \"drawn by strings, string-pulling\", from \"νεῦρον\" (\"nevron\"), meaning either \"sinew, tendon, muscle, string\", or \"wire\", and \"σπάω\" (\"spaō\"), meaning \"draw, pull\".\n\nAristotle (384–322 BC) discusses puppets in his work \"On the Motion of Animals\".\n\nThe movements of animals may be compared with those of automatic puppets, which are set going on the occasion of a tiny movement; the levers are released, and strike the twisted strings against one another.<ref http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/motion_animals.html>Aristotle, On the Motion of Animals, 350 BC.</ref>\n\nIn India, puppetry was practiced from ancient times and is known by different names in different parts of the country. Excavation of clay dolls from Indus valley sites serve as an indication. The art of puppetry called Bommalattam is mentioned in Tamil literature Silappadikaram, which is written around 2nd century B.C.\n\nPuppetry by its nature is a flexible and inventive medium and many puppet companies work with combinations of puppet forms and incorporate real objects into their performances. They might, for example, incorporate performing objects such as torn paper for snow, or a sign board with words as narrative devices within a production. The following are, alphabetically, the basic and conventional forms of puppet:\n\nThe black light puppet is a form of puppetry where the puppets are operated on a stage lit only with ultraviolet lighting, which hides the puppeteer and accentuates the colours of the puppets, which are normally designed using colours that respond to UV light by glowing brightly. The puppeteers perform dressed in black against a black background, with the background and puppeteer's costume normally made of black velvet. The puppeteers manipulate the puppets under the light, while they position themselves unseen against the black unlit background. Puppets of many sizes and types may be used. The original concept of this form of puppetry can be traced to Bunraku puppetry.\n\nBunraku puppets are a type of wood-carved puppet originally made to stand out through torch illumination. Developed in Japan over a thousand years ago and formalised and combined with shamisen music at the end of the 16th century, the puppeteers dress to remain neutral against a black background, although their presence as a kind of 'shadow' figure adds a mysterious power to the puppet. Bunraku traditionally uses three puppeteers to operate a puppet that varies from 1/3 to 1/2 life size.\n\nCantastoria is a form of visual storytelling in which a puppet, illustration, painting, or other visual medium is accompanied by rhythmical speech or song that describes or reenacts events to tell a story.\n\nCarnival puppets (also known as body puppets) are usually designed to be part of a large spectacle. These are often used in parades (such as the Mayday parade in Minneapolis, United States and The Cape Town Carnival in South Africa) and demonstrations, and are at least the size of a human and often much larger. One or more performers are required to move the body and limbs. In parades, the appearance and personality of the person inside is not relevant to the spectator. These puppets are particularly associated with large-scale entertainment, such as the nightly parades at various Disney complexes around the world. Similar puppets were designed by Julie Taymor for \"The Lion King\".\n\nThe Jim Henson Company also has their version of these puppets called full-bodied puppets.\n\nThe finger puppet is a simple puppet variant which fits onto a single finger. Finger puppets normally have no moving parts, and consist primarily of a hollow cylinder shape to cover the finger. Finger puppets are often decorated with eyes and mouths made out of fabric or other materials. This form of puppet has limited application, and is used mainly in pre-schools or kindergartens for storytelling with young children.\n\nA hand puppet (or glove puppet) is a puppet controlled by one hand, which occupies the interior of the puppet. The Punch and Judy puppets are familiar examples of hand puppets. Larger varieties of hand puppets place the puppeteer's hand in just the puppet's head, controlling the mouth and head, and the puppet's body then hangs over the entire arm. Other parts of the puppet (mainly arms) are usually not much larger than the hand itself. Often the mouth can also open and close, and special variants exist with eyelids that can be manipulated. A sock puppet is a particularly simple type of hand puppet made from a sock.\nAlso called a \"two-man puppet\" or a \"live-hand puppet\", the human-arm puppet is similar to a hand puppet but is larger and requires two puppeteers. One puppeteer places their dominant hand inside the puppet's head and operates the puppet's head and mouth, while putting their non-dominant arm into a glove and special sleeve attached to the puppet. The second puppeteer puts their arm into a glove and special sleeve attached to the puppet in order to operate the other arm. This way, the puppet can perform hand gestures. This is a form of glove or hand puppetry and rod puppetry.\n\nLight curtain puppet presentations use light to highlight small portions of a performance area, allowing the puppet to be seen while the manipulators remain invisible. The puppets stand on a stage divided into an unlit background and a well-lit foreground, meeting to form a \"curtain\" of light. The puppeteer dresses in black and remains hidden in the unlit background of the stage while the puppet is held across the light curtain in the lit foreground of the stage. \"Light curtain puppet\" is an umbrella term, and any puppet which is extended into a well-lit area where its handler remains separated from the puppet by a division of light may be called a light curtain puppet.\n\nMarionettes, or \"string puppets,\" are suspended and controlled by a number of strings, plus sometimes a central rod attached to a control bar held from above by the puppeteer. The control bar can be either horizontal or vertical. Basic strings for operation are usually attached to the head, back, hands (to control the arms) and just above the knee (to control the legs). This form of puppetry is complex and sophisticated to operate, requiring greater manipulative control than a finger, glove or rod puppet. The puppet play performed by the Von Trapp children with Maria in \"The Sound of Music\" is a marionette show.\n\nProminent Marionette Theaters operating today include: Salzberg Marionette Theater, Bob Baker Marionette Theater, Center for Puppetry Arts, Melchior Marionette Theater, The Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater in Central Park, Le Theatre de Marionette.\nFamous Italian puppet is Romeo Gallo.\n\nThe marotte is a simplified rod puppet that is just a head and/or body on a stick. It was used by jesters in renaissance times. In a \"marotte à main prenante\", the puppeteer's other arm emerges from the body (which is just a cloth drape) to act as the puppet's arm. Some marottes have a small string running through the stick attached to a handle at the bottom. When the handle is squeezed, the mouth opens.\n\nMotekar or wayang motekar is a kind of shadow puppet theater known in Sundanese, Javanese, and Indonesian as 'wayang (kulit)', that is, (leather) shadow puppet. While most shadow puppets cast black silhouettes from behind a screen, motekar shadow puppets can be in full color. They use plastic materials, transparent dyes, a special light system, and a special type of screen to make this happen.\nMotekar puppet shows can be performed by one or several puppeteers and usually feature music, singing, and a series of dances.\n\nNot all forms of puppetry need specially created items to puppet. Object puppets can be created with found everyday objects either assembled in advance or during performance. Señor Wences was a Spanish ventriloquist who became popular through his appearances on the American program \"The Ed Sullivan Show\". His characters included Johnny (a face drawn on his hand) and Pedro (a gruff head in a box) who would talk when Wences opened the box. Similarly, chinface puppetry involves puppet features drawn or attached onto an upside-down chin.\n\nA pull string puppet is a puppet consisting of a cloth body where in the puppeteer puts his/her arm into a slot in the back and pulls rings on strings to make certain movements such as waving the arms or moving the mouth.\n\nA push puppet consists of a segmented character on a base which is kept under tension until the button on the bottom is pressed. The puppet wiggles, slumps and then collapses. Push puppets are usually intended as novelty toys, rather than as part of professional puppet theatre.\n\nA rod puppet is a puppet constructed around a central rod secured to the head. A large glove covers the rod and is attached to the neck of the puppet. A rod puppet is controlled by the puppeteer moving the metal rods attached to the hands of the puppet (or any other limbs) and by turning the central rod secured to the head.\n\nA shadow puppet is a cut-out figure held between a source of light and a translucent screen. Shadow puppets can form solid silhouettes or be decorated with various amounts of cut-out details. Colour can be introduced into the cut-out shapes to provide a different dimension and different effects can be achieved by moving the puppet (or light source) out of focus. Javanese shadow puppets known as Wayang Kulit are the classic example of this. In China, it became popular from Song Dynasty.\n\nA sock puppet is a puppet formed and operated by inserting a hand inside a sock. The hand is opened and closed to simulate the movement of the puppet's \"mouth\" and give the impression of speaking. Sometimes eyes and other facial features are added to the sock in order to make the puppet more realistic. Sock puppets are popular in many puppet performances, as they are simple to make and easy to use. They are mostly used in satirical or children's works.\n\nSupermarionation is a method of puppetry invented by Gerry Anderson, which he used in his television shows \"Stingray\" and \"Thunderbirds\". The puppets were marionettes with electronically moving mouths to allow for lip-synchronised speech. The marionettes were still controlled by human manipulators with darkened strings.\n\nA table top puppet is a puppet usually operated by rod or direct contact from behind, on a surface similar to a table top (hence the name). Shares many characteristics with Bunraku.\n\nA Ticklebug is a type of hand puppet created from a human hand to have four legs, where the puppet features are drawn on the hand itself. The middle finger is lifted as a head, and the thumb and forefinger serve as a first set of two legs on one side, while the ring finger and little finger serve as a second set of two legs on the opposite side.\n\nThe toy theatre is a puppet cut out of paper and stuck onto card. It is fixed at its base to a stick and operated by pushing it in from the side of the puppet theatre. Sheets of puppets and scenery were produced from the 19th century for children's use.\n\nThe Ventriloquist's Dummy is a puppet shaped like a small human which is operated by a ventriloquist performer to focus the audience's attention away from the performer's activities and heighten the illusion that the dummy is speaking. They are called dummies because they do not speak on their own. The ventriloquist dummy is controlled by one hand of the ventriloquist. Ventriloquism acts are not always performed with a traditional dummy; occasionally other forms of puppetry are used.\n\nA water puppet is a Vietnamese puppet form, the \"Múa rối nước\". Múa rối nước literally translates to \"dance underwater\" or \"dancing underwater\". This is an ancient tradition that dates back to the 10th century. The puppets are built out of wood and the shows are performed in a waist-deep pool. A large rod supports the puppet under the water and is used by the puppeteers to control them. The appearance is of the puppets moving over the water. When the rice fields would flood, the villagers would entertain each other using this puppet form.\n\nThe water also provides the setting for traditional stories depicting day-to-day village life. Water puppets bring wry humor to scenes of farming, fishing, festival events such as buffalo fights, and children's games of marbles and coin-toss. Fishing turns into a game of wits between the fisherman and his prey, with the fisherman getting the short end (often capturing his surprised neighbor by mistake). Besides village life, scenes include legends and national history. Lion dogs romp like puppies while dragons exhale fire and smoke and shoot sprays of water at the audience. Performances of up to 18 short scenes are usually introduced by a pig-tailed bumpkin known as Teu, and accompanied by a small folk orchestra.\n\nThe word \"puppet\" can mean a political leader installed, supported and controlled by powerful external forces, without legitimacy in the country itself. In modern times, this usually implies no democratic mandate from the country's electorate; in earlier times, it could have meant a monarch imposed from outside, who was not a member of a country's established ruling dynasty, or unrecognised by its nobility. \"Puppet government\", \"puppet regime\" and \"puppet state\" are derogatory terms for a government which is in charge of a region or country, but only through being installed, supported and controlled by a more powerful outside government. An example is Vidkun Quisling, a Norwegian fascist leader during World War Two who collaborated with the Nazis and led a puppet government.\n\nIn a more general sense, a puppet is any person who is controlled by another by reasons of (for instance) undue influence, intellectual deficiency, or lack of character or charisma. Science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein's novel \"The Puppet Masters\" depicts alien parasites who attach themselves to human beings and control their actions.\n\nPoppet, a word that sounds similar, is sometimes a term of endearment, similar to \"love\", \"pet\", \"doll\" or \"dear\". It alludes to folk-magic and witchcraft, where a poppet is a special doll created to represent a person for the purpose of casting healing, fertility, or binding spells.\n\nSock Puppet is used on social media as a term to describe fake accounts used to spread political disinformation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5921195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5921195", "title": "RIAI Travelling Scholarship", "text": "RIAI Travelling Scholarship\n\nThe RIAI Travelling Scholarship is an award made annually by the Royal Institute of the Architects of Ireland to one or more students of architecture attending a school of architecture in the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland.\n\nThe award has been made annually since 1935 and has former the basis for the careers of many notable Irish architects, among them Arthur Gibney, Sam Stephenson and Trevor Leaker.\n\nOver the course of its history, the scholarship has been competed for in numerous ways. Current practice is for the RIAI to set a competition brief, which is then the subject of the design of a building or landscape by the competitors. An appointed jury of distinguished and learned architects and pedagogues then selects the winning entry.\n\nRIAI\n"}
{"id": "44284036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44284036", "title": "Rivers (Holidays in the Danger Zone)", "text": "Rivers (Holidays in the Danger Zone)\n\nHolidays in the Danger Zone: Rivers is a five-part travel documentary on dangerous rivers, part of the \"Holidays in the Danger Zone\" series, produced and broadcast by BBC This World. Written and presented by Ben Anderson, and produced by Will Daws. It was first broadcast between 21 February - 7 March 2006, on BBC Two.\n\n\nIn the series, Anderson journeys down some of the world's most dangerous rivers, exploring life and the daily struggle to exist beside rivers that have been the course of so much political unrest. Starting with the Amazon, Anderson journey takes him into the Andes, where the effects of altitude sickness at the source of the Amazon take its toll on him. Then in India, Anderson visits the rapidly melting Satopanth Glaicer that feeds the Ganges, its possibly impacted with Pakistan over control over water rights, before visiting the holy city of Varanasi where the massive amount of burials and cremations has caused the Ganges to become highly polluted; it is the fifth most polluted river of the world as of 2007, and a modern health hazard to everything that depends on the river for life. Anderson then to the Euphrates & The Jordan, both ancient rivers, steeped in history of a troubled region, before ending on the Congo, which like the nation it cuts though has seen much violence in recent years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39415693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39415693", "title": "Salle de la Bouteille", "text": "Salle de la Bouteille\n\nThe Salle de la Bouteille or Salle du Jeu de Paume de la Bouteille, later known as the Hôtel [de] Guénégaud or Guénégaud Theatre, was a 1671 theatre located in Paris, France, between the rue de Seine and the rue des Fossés de Nesle across from the rue Guénégaud (now 42 rue Mazarine, at its intersection with the rue Jacques Callot). It was the first home of the Paris Opera and in 1680 became the first theatre of the Comédie-Française.\n\nA former tennis court (\"jeu de paume\") converted into a theatre, it was inaugurated in 1671 as the first home of Pierre Perrin's Académie d'Opéra (see Paris Opera). The first French opera, Robert Cambert's \"Pomone\" with a libretto by Perrin, premiered there on 3 March of that year. A second lyric work, \"Les peines et les plaisirs de l'amour\", with a libretto by Gabriel Gilbert and music by Cambert, was performed in 1672. On 13 March 1672 the \"surintendant\" of the king's music, Jean-Baptiste Lully, acquired Perrin's rights to perform opera and named his company the Académie Royale de Musique, although it also continued to be called the Opéra. Because of legal difficulties Lully could not use the Salle de la Bouteille, and moved the Opéra to a theatre built by Carlo Vigarani in the Bel-Air tennis court on the Rue de Vaugirard.\n\nIn 1673, after the death of Molière, the Salle de la Bouteille became the home of the Guénégaud Theatre, a company formed from the remnants of the troupe of Molière and players from the Théâtre du Marais.\n\nIn 1680, after merging with the troupe from the Hôtel de Bourgogne, the company became known as the Comédie-Française and continued to perform in the Guénégaud until 1689, when it moved to the Jeu de Paume de l'Étoile on the rue des Fossés-Saint-Germain-des-Prés (the southeastward extension of the rue des Fossés de Nesle, today known as the ).\n\n"}
{"id": "13429072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13429072", "title": "Scottish Civic Trust", "text": "Scottish Civic Trust\n\nThe Scottish Civic Trust is a registered charity. Founded in 1967, and based in the Category A-listed Tobacco Merchant's House in Glasgow, the Trust aims to provide \"leadership and focus in the protection, enhancement and development of Scotland's built environment\". It often comments on planning applications. From 1990 to 2011 the Trust maintained the Buildings at Risk Register for Scotland on behalf of Historic Environment Scotland and delivers the popular Doors Open Days programme in Scotland. The current director of the Trust is Susan O'Connor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31990251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31990251", "title": "Seven Sorrows Polyptych", "text": "Seven Sorrows Polyptych\n\nThe Seven Sorrows Polyptych is an oil on panel painting by Albrecht Dürer. The painting includes a central picture (108 x 43 cm), currently at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, and seven surrounding panels (measuring some 60 x 46 cm) which are exhibited at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden.\n\nThe work was commissioned by Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, not a long time after his meeting with Dürer at Nuremberg in April 1496. Stylistic considerations suggest that the artist started to work on the painting only from around 1500.\n\nModern scholars tend to attribute to Dürer only the central panel, the others having been executed by his pupils based on his drawings. The central panel, portraying the \"Sorrowing Mother\", arrived in the Bavarian museum from the \" Benediktbeuren\" convent of Munich in the early 19th century. It was restored in the 1930s: once the overpaintings and additions were removed, the shell-shaped niche (a motif typical of Italian art), the halo and the sword (a symbol of Mary of the Seven Sorrows) on the right were rediscovered, clarifying the subject of the work.\n\nThe other panels were at Wittenberg, seat of Frederick's castle. In 1640 they were moved to the Kunstkammer of the Prince of Saxony. In the mid-20th century they were restored: their conditions improved, but the attribution was not cleared.\n"}
{"id": "40636600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40636600", "title": "State Research and Design Shipbuilding Center", "text": "State Research and Design Shipbuilding Center\n\nState Research and Design Shipbuilding Center () is a design bureau specializing in shipbuilding and located in Mykolaiv, Ukraine. It is part of the Ukrainian Defense Industries state corporation.\n\nEstablished in 1975 as a regional division of the (Severnoe PDB, Leningrad) known as the 61st department. \n\nDuring dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1990 it was transformed into the Southern Planning and Design Burea (Yuzhnoe PDB, Mykolaiv).\n\nAfter the succession of Ukraine from the Soviet Union in 1992, the company became a major state design bureau, the State Research and Design Shipbuilding Center located in a seaport of Ukraine, Mykolaiv next to several shipyards.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58039", "title": "Stuckism", "text": "Stuckism\n\nStuckism () is an international art movement founded in 1999 by Billy Childish and Charles Thomson to promote figurative painting as opposed to conceptual art. By May 2017 the initial group of 13 British artists had expanded to 236 groups in 52 countries.\n\nChildish and Thomson have issued several manifestos. The first one was \"The Stuckists\", consisting of 20 points starting with \"Stuckism is a quest for authenticity\". \"Remodernism\", the other well-known manifesto of the movement, is a criticism of postmodernism; it aims to get back to the true spirit of modernism, to produce art with spiritual value regardless of style, subject matter or medium. In another manifesto they define themselves as \"anti-anti-art\" which is against anti-art and for art.\n\nAfter exhibiting in small galleries in Shoreditch, London, the Stuckists' first show in a major public museum was held in 2004 at the Walker Art Gallery, as part of the Liverpool Biennial. The group has demonstrated annually at Tate Britain against the Turner Prize since 2000, sometimes dressed in clown costumes. They have also come out in opposition to the Charles Saatchi-patronised Young British Artists.\n\nAlthough painting is the dominant artistic form of Stuckism, artists using other media such as photography, sculpture, film and collage have also joined, and share the Stuckist opposition to conceptualism and \"ego-art.\"\n\nThe name \"Stuckism\" was coined in January 1999 by Charles Thomson in response to a poem read to him several times by Billy Childish. In it, Childish recites that his former girlfriend, Tracey Emin had said he was \"stuck! stuck! stuck!\" with his art, poetry and music. Later that month, Thomson approached Childish with a view to co-founding an art group called Stuckism, which Childish agreed to, on the basis that Thomson would do the work for the group, as Childish already had a full schedule.\n\nThere were eleven other founding members: Philip Absolon, Frances Castle, Sheila Clark, Eamon Everall, Ella Guru, Wolf Howard, Bill Lewis, Sanchia Lewis, Joe Machine, Sexton Ming, and Charles Williams. The membership has evolved since its founding through creative collaborations: the group was originally promoted as working in paint, but members have since worked in various other media, including poetry, fiction, performance, photography, film and music.\n\nIn 1979, Thomson, Childish, Bill Lewis and Ming were members of The Medway Poets performance group, to which Absolon and Sanchia Lewis had earlier contributed. Peter Waite's Rochester Pottery staged a series of solo painting shows. In 1982, TVS broadcast a documentary on the poets. That year, Emin, then a fashion student, and Childish started a relationship; her writing was edited by Bill Lewis, printed by Thomson and published by Childish. Group members published dozens of works. The poetry group dispersed after two years, reconvening in 1987 to record \"The Medway Poets\" LP. Clark, Howard and Machine became involved over the following years. Thomson got to know Williams, who was a local art student and whose girlfriend was a friend of Emin; Thomson also met Everall. During the foundation of the group, Ming brought in his girlfriend, Guru, who in turn invited Castle.\n\nIn August 1999, Childish and Thomson wrote \"The Stuckists manifesto\" which stress the value of painting as a medium, its use for communication, and the expression of emotion and experience – as opposed to what Stuckists see as the superficial novelty, nihilism and irony of conceptual art and postmodernism. The most contentious statement in the manifesto is: \"Artists who don't paint aren't artists\".\n\nThe second and third manifestos, \"An Open Letter to Sir Nicholas Serota\" and \"Remodernism\" respectively, were sent to the director of the Tate, Nicholas Serota. He sent a brief reply: \"Thank you for your open letter dated 6 March. You will not be surprised to learn that I have no comment to make on your letter, or your manifesto 'Remodernism'.\"\n\nIn the \"Remodernism\" manifesto, the Stuckists declared that they aimed to replace postmodernism with remodernism, a period of renewed spiritual (as opposed to religious) values in art, culture and society. Other manifestos have included \"Handy Hints\", \"Anti-anti-art\", \"The Cappuccino writer and the Idiocy of Contemporary Writing\", \"The Turner Prize\", \"The Decreptitude of the Critic\" and \"Stuckist critique of Damien Hirst\".\n\nIn \"Anti-anti-art\", the Stuckists outlined their opposition to what is known as \"anti-art\". Stuckists claim that conceptual art is justified by the work of Marcel Duchamp, but that Duchamp's work is \"anti-art by intent and effect\". The Stuckists feel that \"Duchamp's work was a protest against the stale, unthinking artistic establishment of his day\", while \"the great (but wholly unintentional) irony of postmodernism is that it is a direct equivalent of the conformist, unoriginal establishment that Duchamp attacked in the first place\".\n\nManifestos have been written by other Stuckists, including the Students for Stuckism group. An \"Underage Stuckists\" group was founded in 2006 with a manifesto for teenagers written by two 16-year-olds, Liv Soul and Rebekah Maybury, on MySpace.\n\nIn July 1999, the Stuckists were first mentioned in the media, in an article in \"The Evening Standard\" and soon gained other coverage, helped by press interest in Tracey Emin, who had been nominated for the Turner Prize.\n\nThe first Stuckist show was \"Stuck! Stuck! Stuck!\" in September 1999 in Joe Crompton's in Shoreditch Gallery 108 (now defunct), followed by \"The Resignation of Sir Nicholas Serota\". In 2000 they staged \"The Real Turner Prize Show\" at the same time as the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize exhibition.\n\nA \"Students for Stuckism\" group was founded in 2000 by students from Camberwell College of Arts, who staged their own exhibition. S.P. Howarth was expelled from the painting degree course at Camberwell college for his paintings, and had the first solo exhibit at the Stuckism International Gallery in 2002, named \"I Don't Want a Painting Degree if it Means Not Painting\".\n\nThomson stood as a Stuckist candidate for the 2001 British General Election, in the constituency of Islington South & Finsbury, against Chris Smith, the then Secretary of State for Culture. He picked up 108 votes (0.4%). Childish left the group at this time because he objected to Thomson's leadership.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2005 Thomson ran the Stuckism International Centre and Gallery in Shoreditch, London. In 2003, under the title \"A Dead Shark Isn't Art\", the gallery exhibited a shark which had first been put on public display in 1989 (two years before Damien Hirst's) by Eddie Saunders in his Shoreditch shop, JD Electrical Supplies. It was suggested that Hirst may have seen this and copied it.\n\nIn 2003 they reported Charles Saatchi to the UK Office of Fair Trading, complaining that he had an effective monopoly on art. The complaint was not upheld. In 2003, an allied group, Stuckism Photography, was founded by Larry Dunstan and Andy Bullock. In 2005 the Stuckists offered a donation of 175 paintings from the Walker show to the Tate, but it was rejected by the Tate's trustees.\n\nIn August 2005 Thomson alerted the press to the fact that the Tate had purchased a work by Chris Ofili, \"The Upper Room\", for £705,000 while the artist was a serving Tate trustee. Fraser Kee Scott, owner of A Gallery, demonstrated with the Stuckists outside the Tate Gallery against the gallery's purchase of \"The Upper Room\". Scott said in \"The Daily Telegraph\" that the Tate Gallery's chairman, Paul Myners, was hypocritical for refusing to divulge the price paid. Ofili had asked other artists to donate work to the gallery. In July 2006 the Charity Commission censured the gallery for acting outside its legal powers. Sir Nicholas Serota stated that the Stuckists had \"acted in the public interest\".\n\nIn October 2006, the Stuckists staged their first exhibition, \"Go West\", in a commercial West End gallery, Spectrum London, signalling their entry as \"major players\" in the art world.\n\nAn international symposium on Stuckism took place in October 2006 at the Liverpool John Moores University during the Liverpool Biennial. The programme was led by Naive John, founder of the Liverpool Stuckists. There was an accompanying exhibition in the 68 Hope Gallery at Liverpool School of Art and Design (John Moores University Gallery).\n\nBy 2006 there were 63 Stuckist groups in the UK. Members include Naive John, Mark D, Elsa Dax, Paul Harvey, Jane Kelly, Udaiyan, Peter McArdle, Peter Murphy, Rachel Jordan, Guy Denning and Abby Jackson. John Bourne opened Stuckism Wales at his home, a permanent exhibition of (mainly Welsh) paintings. Mandy McCartin is a regular guest artist.\n\nIn 2010, Paul Harvey's painting of Charles Saatchi was banned from the window display of the Artspace Gallery in Maddox Street, London, on the grounds that it was \"too controversial for the area\". It was the centrepiece of the show, \"Stuckist Clowns Doing Their Dirty Work\", the first exhibition of the Stuckists in Mayfair, and depicted Saatchi with a sheep at his feet and a halo made from a cheese wrapper. The Saatchi Gallery said that Saatchi \"would not have any problem\" with the painting's display. The gallery announced they were shutting down the show. Harvey said, \"I did it to make Saatchi look friendly and human. It's a ludicrous decision\".\nThe Stuckists considered legal action, and protested with emails to the gallery. Subsequently, the painting was reinstated and the show continued.\n\nThe Stuckists gained significant media coverage for eight years of protests (2000–2006 and 2008) outside Tate Britain against the Turner Prize, sometimes dressed as clowns. In 2001 they demonstrated in Trafalgar Square at the unveiling of Rachel Whiteread's \"Monument\". In 2002, they carried a coffin marked \"The Death of Conceptual Art\" to the White Cube Gallery. In 2004 outside the launch of \"The Triumph of Painting\" at the Saatchi Gallery they wore tall hats with Charles Saatchi's face emblazoned and carried placards claiming that Saatchi had copied their ideas.\n\nEvents outside Britain have included \"The Clown Trial of President Bush\" held in New Haven in 2003 to protest against the Iraq War. Michael Dickinson has exhibited political and satirical collages in Turkey for which he was arrested, and charged, but acquitted of any crime—an outcome which was seen to have positive implications for Turkey's relationship with the European Union.\n\n\"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\" was the first national gallery exhibition of Stuckist art. It was held at the Walker Art Gallery and Lady Lever Art Gallery and was part of the 2004 Liverpool Biennial. It consisted of over 250 paintings by 37 artists, mostly from the UK but also with a representation of international Stuckist artists from the US, Germany and Australia. There was an accompanying exhibition of Stuckist photographers. A book, \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\", was published to accompany the exhibition. \"Daily Mail\" journalist Jane Kelly exhibited a painting of Myra Hindley in the show, which may have been the cause of her dismissal from her job.\n\nIn July 2007, the Stuckists held an exhibition at A Gallery, \"I Won't Have Sex with You as long as We're Married\", titled after words apparently said to Thomson by his ex-wife, Stella Vine on their wedding night. The show coincided with the opening of Vine's major show at Modern Art Oxford and was prompted by Thomson's anger that the material promoting her show did not mention her time with the Stuckists. Tate chairman Paul Myners visited both shows.\n\nCharles Thomson's painting, \"Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision\", as Charlotte Cripps of \"The Independent\" wrote is one of the best known paintings to come out of the Stuckist movement, and as Jane Morris wrote in \"The Guardian\" it's a likely \"signature piece\" for the movement, standing for its opposition to conceptual art. Painted in 2000, the piece has been exhibited in later Stuckist shows, and featured on placards in Stuckist demonstrations against the Turner Prize. It depicts Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery and the usual chairman of the Turner Prize jury, and satirises Young British Artist Tracey Emin's installation, \"My Bed\", consisting of her bed and objects, including knickers, which she exhibited in 1999 as a Turner Prize nominee.\n\nIn 2000 Regan Tamanui started the first Stuckist group outside Britain in Melbourne, Australia, and it was decided that other artists should be free to start their own groups also, named after their locality. Stuckism has since grown into an international art movement of 233 groups in 52 countries, as of July 2012.\n\nMafa Bamba founded \"The Abidgan Stuckists\" in 2001 in Ivory Coast and Kari Seid founded \"The Cape Town Stuckists\" in 2008 in South Africa.\n\nIn 2000, Susan Constanse founded the first US group \"The Pittsburgh Stuckists\" in Pittsburgh—the second group to be founded outside the UK. This was announced in the \"In Pittsburgh Weekly\", 1 November 2000: \"The new word in art is Stuckism. A Stuckist paints their life, mind and soul with no pretensions and no excuses.\" By 2011 there are 44 US Stuckist groups. There have been Stuckist shows and demonstrations in the US, and American Stuckists have also exhibited in international Stuckist shows abroad. US Stuckists include Ron Throop, Jeffrey Scott Holland, Tony Juliano, Frank Kozik and Terry Marks. There are also 4 Stuckist groups in Canada including \"The White Rock Stuckists\" in British Columbia founded by David Wilson.\n\nAsim Butt founded the first Pakistani Stuckist group, \"The Karachi Stuckists\", in 2005. At the end of 2009 he was thinking of expanding \"The Karachi Stuckists\" with new members, but on 15 January 2010 he committed suicide. In 2011 Sheherbano Husain restarted the group.\n\n\"The Tehran Stuckists\" is an Iranian Stuckist, Remodernist and anti-anti-art group of painters founded in 2007 in Tehran, which is a major protagonist of Asian Stuckism. In April 2010 they curated the first Stuckist exhibition in Iran, \"Tehran Stuckists: Searching for the Unlimited Potentials of Figurative Painting\", at Iran Artists Forum, Mirmiran Gallery. Their second exhibition, \"International Stuckists: Painters Out of Order\", including paintings by Stuckists from Iran, Britain, USA, Spain, South Africa, Pakistan and Turkey was held at Day Gallery in November 2013. Although one of the main aspects of Stuckism movement is that \"the Stuckist allows him/herself uncensored expression\", but \"The Tehran Stuckists\"' exhibitions in Iran are censored and they are not allowed to exhibit some of their artworks in Iranian galleries. The group has also participated in Stuckist exhibitions in Britain, Lithuania and Spain.\n\nOther Asian Stuckists are Shelley Li (China), Smeetha Boumik (India), Joko Apridinoto (Indonesia), Elio Yuri Figini (Japan) and Fady Chamaa (Lebanon).\n\n\"The Prague Stuckists\" were founded in 2005 in the Czech Republic by Robert Janás, Other Stuckist artists in Europe include Peter Klint (Germany), Michael Dickinson (Turkey), Odysseus Yakoumakis (Greece), Artista Eli (Spain), Kloot Per W (Belgium), Jaroslav Valečka (Czech Republic), Jiří Hauschka (Czech Republic), Markéta Korečková (Czech Republic), Ján Macko (Slovakia) and Pavel Lefterov (Bulgaria).\n\nIn October 2000, Regan Tamanui founded \"The Melbourne Stuckists\" in Melbourne, the fourth Stuckist group to be started and the first one outside the UK. On 27 October 2000, he staged the \"Real Turner Prize Show\" at the Dead End Gallery in his home, concurrent with three shows with the same title in England (London, Falmouth and Dartington) and one in Germany in protest against the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize. Other Australian Stuckists include Godfrey Blow, who exhibited in \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\". In 2005 Mike Mayhew also founded \"The Christchurch Stuckists\" in New Zealand.\n\nCo-founder Billy Childish left the group in 2001, but has stated that he remains committed to its principles. Sexton Ming left to concentrate on a solo career with the Aquarium Gallery. Wolf Howard left in 2006, but has exhibited with the group since. Jesse Richards who ran the Stuckism Centre USA in New Haven, left the group in 2006 to focus on Remodernist film.\n\nIn June 2000, Stella Vine went to a talk given by Childish and Thomson on Stuckism and Remodernism in London. At the end of May 2001, she exhibited some of her paintings publicly for the first time in the \"Vote Stuckist\" show in Brixton, and formed The Westminster Stuckists group. On 4 June, she took part in a Stuckist demonstration in Trafalgar Square. By 10 July, she renamed her group The Unstuckists. In mid-August, Thomson and Vine were married. A work by her was shown in the Stuckist show in Paris, which ended in mid-November, by which time she had rejected the Stuckists, and the marriage had ended.\n\nIn February 2004, Charles Saatchi bought a painting of Diana, Princess of Wales, by Vine and was credited with \"discovering\" her. Thomson said it was the Stuckists and not Saatchi who had discovered her. At the end of March 2004, Thomson made a formal complaint about Saatchi to the Office of Fair Trading, claiming that Saatchi's leading position was monopolistic \"to the detriment of smaller competitors\", citing Vine as an example of this. On 15 April, the OFT closed the file on the case on the basis that Saatchi was not \"in a dominant position in any relevant market.\"\n\nIn 1999, two performance artists, Yuan Chai and Jian Jun Xi, jumped on Tracey Emin's installation \"My Bed\", a work consisting of the artist's own unmade bed, at the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize, in an unauthorised art intervention. Chai had written, among other things, the words \"Anti Stuckism\" on his bare back. Fiachra Gibbons of \"The Guardian\" wrote (in 1999) that the event \"will go down in art history as the defining moment of the new and previously unheard of Anti-Stuckist Movement.\" Writing in \"The Guardian\" ten years later, Jonathan Jones described the Stuckists as \"enemies of art\", and what they say as \"cheap slogans\" and \"hysterical rants\".\n\nThe artist Max Podstolski wrote that the art world needed a new manifesto, as confrontational as that of Futurism or Dadaism, \"written with a heart-felt passion capable of inspiring and rallying art world outsiders, dissenters, rebels, the neglected and disaffected\", and suggests that \"Well now we've got it, in the form of Stuckism\".\n\nNew York art gallery owner Edward Winkleman wrote in 2006 that he had never heard of the Stuckists, so he \"looked them up on Wikipedia\", and stated he was \"turned off by their anti-conceptual stance, not to mention the inanity of their statement about painting, but I'm more than a bit interested in the democratization their movement represents.\" Thomson responded to Winkleman directly.\n\nAlso in 2006, Colin Gleadell, writing in \"The Telegraph\", noted that the Stuckist's first exhibition in central London had brought \"multiple sales\" for leading artists of the movement, and that this raised the question of how good they were at painting. He observed that \"Whatever the critics may say, buyers from the UK, the US and Japan have already taken a punt. Six of Thomson's paintings have sold for between £4,000 and £5,000 each. Joe Machine, a former jailbird who paints for therapeutic reasons, has also sold six paintings for the same price.\"\n\nThe BBC arts correspondent Lawrence Pollard wrote in 2009 that the way was paved for \"cultural agitators\" like the Stuckists, as well as the Vorticists, Surrealists and others, by the Futurist Manifesto of 20 February 1909.\n\nSome UK artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8439071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8439071", "title": "Suzan Pitt", "text": "Suzan Pitt\n\nSuzan Pitt is an American film animator and painter, whose surreal, psychological animated films and paintings have been acclaimed and exhibited worldwide. She teaches with the Experimental Animation program at California Institute of the Arts.\n\nWhile studying painting, Pitt came across the field of animation when using an 8mm camera in 1971.\n\nHer film \"Asparagus\" was screened with David Lynch's \"Eraserhead\" for two years on the midnight movie circuit.\n\nPitt has worked as a film producer for various animated projects, as well as designing the first two operas to include animated images for the stage (\"Damnation of Faust\" and \"The Magic Flute\") in Germany. In addition, she created large multimedia shows at the Venice Biennale and Harvard University.\n\nA former associate professor at Harvard University, Pitt has received a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Creative Capital Moving Image Award, a Rockefeller Fellowship, and three production grants from the National Endowment of the Arts. She lives in Los Angeles, Mexico, and a remote cabin in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.\n\nThe Academy Film Archive has preserved several of Pitt's films, including \"Asparagus\", \"Joy Street\", \"Whitney Commercial\", \"Bowl, Garden, Theatre, Marble Game\", and \"Crocus\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29786619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29786619", "title": "The Eiffel Tower and Other Mythologies", "text": "The Eiffel Tower and Other Mythologies\n\nThe Eiffel Tower and Other Mythologies is a collection of essays by the French literary theorist Roland Barthes. It is a companion volume to his earlier book, \"Mythologies\", and follows the same format of a series of short essays which explore a range of cultural phenomena, from the Tour de France to laundry detergents.\n"}
{"id": "13361675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13361675", "title": "The Women (2008 film)", "text": "The Women (2008 film)\n\nThe Women is a 2008 American comedy-drama film written, produced and directed by Diane English. The screenplay is an updated version of the George Cukor-directed 1939 film of the same name based on a 1936 play by Clare Boothe Luce.\n\nIn the original film, most of the characters were Manhattan socialites whose primary interest was idle gossip. In the 2008 version, several work in the fields of fashion design and publishing, and the character of Alex Fisher is openly a lesbian. A feature of the film, shared with the 1939 version, is that the movie does not show a single male actor or extra, with the exception of the baby at the very end of the film.\n\nThough a commercial success, \"The Women\" was panned by critics.\n\nClothing designer Mary Haines lives in a beautiful suburban Connecticut home with her wealthy financier husband Steven and their 11-year-old daughter Molly. Her best friend since college, Sylvie Fowler, is the editor of a prominent fashion magazine that dictates the latest in taste and style for New York City fashionistas. When Sylvie learns Steven is involved with Crystal Allen, a perfume salesgirl in Saks Fifth Avenue, from chatty manicurist Tanya, she confides in the ever-pregnant Edie Cohen but hesitates to tell Mary, who discovers the news from the same woman after getting a manicure herself. Despite her mother Catherine's exhortation to keep quiet about what she knows, Mary confronts Sylvie first, in a lingerie store, and then Steven, before asking for a divorce.\n\nSylvie, Edie, and writer Alex Fisher join forces to support their spurned friend, but complications arise when Sylvie, facing the loss of her job, conspires with local gossip columnist Bailey Smith by confirming Mary's marital woes in exchange for Bailey contributing a celebrity profile to the magazine. Mary is stunned by Sylvie’s betrayal and ends their friendship. Mary's daughter begins to ditch school and confides in Sylvie because her mother, distracted by the upheavals in her once idyllic life, becomes more distant.\n\nMary is fired from her job by her father, has a makeover, and decides to open her own clothing design firm with some financial assistance from Catherine. As she begins to get her life in order, she makes an effort to bond with Molly, who reveals her father's relationship with Crystal is unraveling, and reunites with Sylvie, who has quit her job. With this knowledge in hand, Mary sets out to repair her fractured marriage as she prepares to unveil her new line of womenswear in a fashion show attended not only by boutique owners but the buyer from Saks as well.\n\nSylvie tells Mary that she has met a guy and is thinking of giving him her real phone number. Edie's water breaks and she has a baby boy. Mary receives a call from her husband and is encouraged by the others to answer it; she then arranges a date with him. In the end, we see that a magazine titled \"Sylvie\" is published with the four friends on the cover and Alex's book is out. A hint is given about Crystal’s possibly going out with Alex's ex-girlfriend Natasha. The women talk about the magazine, the book and the joys, heartaches and uniquely special triumphs of being a woman.\n\nIn \"The Women: The Legacy\", a bonus feature on the DVD release of the film, Diane English discusses her fifteen-year-long struggle to bring a contemporary version of the 1939 classic film to the screen. She wanted to present a version in which the female characters were strong and self-reliant and supported and defended each other rather than resort to treachery and catty remarks to achieve their goals. Since the concept of women going to Reno in search of a divorce is archaic, she needed to eliminate this aspect of the original plot from her treatment, which necessitated deleting several characters from the story. One character that is not in its original form is Lucy, who in the play and original movie was the maid in Reno, here she is seen as Mary's dog.\n\nEnglish wrote the first screenplay in 1993 during hiatus from \"Murphy Brown\". The following year, Julia Roberts and Meg Ryan agreed to co-produce and star, with James L. Brooks as director and a supporting cast including Blythe Danner, Marisa Tomei, Debi Mazar, and Candice Bergen. In 1996, the first table reading of the script was held at Sony Pictures. Despite the enthusiasm of everyone involved, the project stalled when Roberts and Ryan decided they wanted to play the same role.\n\nEnglish spent the following year revising the screenplay, during which time Brooks dropped out to direct \"As Good as It Gets\". Roberts also lost interest and moved on. English first entertained the idea of directing the film herself in 2001. Over the next few years, Sandra Bullock, Ashley Judd, Uma Thurman, Whitney Houston, and Queen Latifah were among those to express interest, although none were attached officially.\n\nAfter being turned down by every major Hollywood studio, English decided to develop the project as an independent film and approached Victoria Pearman, the president of Mick Jagger's production company, Jagged Films, who agreed to produce the film for Picturehouse. Pearman offered some plot suggestions, and English put the finishing touches on the seventh and final draft of the script. Upon the film's completion, it was shown to executives at Warner Bros., which had absorbed Picturehouse in the interim. Unimpressed, they put the film on the back burner until the box office success of \"Sex and the City\" convinced them there was an audience for an all-female film.\n\nThe film was shot on location in New York City and various cities in Massachusetts. As with the play and 1939 film, English was careful to make sure no men appear on screen, even in long shots and crowd scenes. The only male character in the film is Edie's baby boy, born in the final scene of the film, and a waiter at a café.\n\nThe film received a significant negative response from critics. It holds a 13% rating on Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating of 3.9/10 and a critical consensus that states \"\"The Women\" is a toothless remake of the 1939 classic, lacking the charm, wit and compelling protagonists of the original.\"\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" was one of the few critics who enjoyed the film. He awarded it three out of four stars and commented,\nA.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" called the film \"a witless, straining mess\" and added,\nKenneth Turan of the \"Los Angeles Times\" observed,\nDavid Wiegand of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote,\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" rated the film one out of four stars, calling it a \"misbegotten redo\" and \"a major dud.\" He added, \"Everyone...struggles with a script that resists being crowbarred into the 21st century.\" Richard Schickel of \"Time\" magazine called the film \"one of the worst movies I've ever seen.\"\n\nMeg Ryan, Annette Bening, Eva Mendes, Debra Messing and Jada Pinkett Smith each garnered a Razzie Award nomination for Worst Actress.\n\nDespite the mostly negative reviews, the film was a moderate box office success. On its opening weekend, the film earned $10,115,210, ranking fourth behind \"Righteous Kill\", \"The Family That Preys\", and \"Burn After Reading\". The film eventually grossed $26,902,075 in the U.S. and $23,105,471 in foreign markets for a total worldwide box office of $50,007,546.\n\nThe film was released on DVD on December 19, 2008 in the U.S. and 19 March 2009 in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "1937658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937658", "title": "Time reversibility", "text": "Time reversibility\n\nA mathematical or physical process is time-reversible if the dynamics of the process remain well-defined when the sequence of time-states is reversed.\n\nA deterministic process is time-reversible if the time-reversed process satisfies the same dynamic equations as the original process; in other words, the equations are invariant or symmetrical under a change in the sign of time. A stochastic process is reversible if the statistical properties of the process are the same as the statistical properties for time-reversed data from the same process.\n\nIn mathematics, a dynamical system is time-reversible if the forward evolution is one-to-one, so that for every state there exists a transformation (an involution) π which gives a one-to-one mapping between the time-reversed evolution of any one state and the forward-time evolution of another corresponding state, given by the operator equation:\n\nAny time-independent structures (e.g. critical points or attractors) which the dynamics give rise to must therefore either be self-symmetrical or have symmetrical images under the involution π.\n\nIn physics, the laws of motion of classical mechanics exhibit time reversibility, as long as the operator π reverses the conjugate momenta of all the particles of the system, i.e. formula_2 (T-symmetry).\n\nIn quantum mechanical systems, however, the weak nuclear force is not invariant under T-symmetry alone; if weak interactions are present reversible dynamics are still possible, but only if the operator π also reverses the signs of all the charges and the parity of the spatial co-ordinates (C-symmetry and P-symmetry). This reversibility of several linked properties is known as CPT symmetry.\n\nThermodynamic processes can be reversible or irreversible, depending on the change in entropy during the process.\n\nA stochastic process is time-reversible if the joint probabilities of the forward and reverse state sequences are the same for all sets of time increments { \"τ\" }, for \"s\" = 1, ..., \"k\" for any \"k\":\n\nA univariate stationary Gaussian process is time-reversible. Markov processes can only be reversible if their stationary distributions have the property of detailed balance:\n\nKolmogorov's criterion defines the condition for a Markov chain or continuous-time Markov chain to be time-reversible.\n\nTime reversal of numerous classes of stochastic processes has been studied, including Lévy processes, stochastic networks (Kelly's lemma), birth and death processes, Markov chains, and piecewise deterministic Markov processes.\n\nTime reversal method works based on the linear reciprocity of the wave equation, which states that the time reversed solution of a wave equation is also a solution to the wave equation since standard wave equations only contain even derivatives of the unknown variables. Thus, the wave equation is symmetrical under time reversal, so the time reversal of any valid solution is also a solution. This means that a wave's path through space is valid when travelled in either direction.\n\nTime reversal signal processing is a process in which this property is used to reverse a received signal; this signal is then re-emitted and a temporal compression occurs, resulting in a reverse of the initial excitation waveform being played at the initial source.\n\n"}
{"id": "38253336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38253336", "title": "Trondhjems Kunstforening", "text": "Trondhjems Kunstforening\n\nTrondhjems Kunstforening () is an art society in Trondheim, Norway.\n\nIt was founded in 1845 on the initiative of Lars Hansen and I. C. Dahl, to promote and display art in Trondhjem. The first exhibition was held in Stiftsgården in 1846. In 1930 the organisation erected its own localities in \"Bispegata\", designed by Peter Daniel Hofflund. In 1996 it was behind the founding of the museum Trondheim Kunstmuseum.\n\n"}
{"id": "8125400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8125400", "title": "Virgilius the Sorcerer", "text": "Virgilius the Sorcerer\n\nVirgilius the Sorcerer is a fairy tale about the poet Virgil by Andrew Lang who included it in \"The Violet Fairy Book\".\n\nMedieval legends attributed magical powers to the poet Virgil, but even among these legends, this tale attributes a very high level of power to him.\n\nAmong his accomplishments in the tale, Virgilius is a quick thinker, using his magical powers to defeat corruption and military attacks and spirits. One of his spells was to make an army immobile, turn men to stone, or create a river out of nowhere, encircling them so they could not proceed. Although he wins many challenges, including a magician's battle, wily schemes also help his cause. Among his creations, he invents and animates a horse, rider and dogs out of copper to assert his will.\n\nVirgilius avenges the trickery of his first love for publicly humiliating him before finding true love at last, and creating the city of Naples for her.\n\nThe story begins –\nLong, long ago there was born to a Roman knight and his wife Maja a little boy called Virgilius. While he was still quite little, his father died, and the kinsmen, instead of being a help and protection to the child and his mother, robbed them of their lands and money, and the widow, fearing that they might take the boy's life also, sent him away to Spain, that he might study in the great University of Toledo.\n\nOne holiday, when walking, he came upon an evil spirit that was trapped; the spirit offered him magical books in exchange for setting him free. Virgilius demanded the books, and the knowledge how to use them, first; then he freed the spirit. It grew to an enormous size, so the quick-witted Virgilius declared he did not believe it came out of the hole, and the spirit, to prove it, went back in whereupon Virgilius quickly trapped it again.\n\nHe studied magic for many days gaining a wonderful reputation for his powers (\"he was much thought of as showing promise of great learning\"). This was cut short when his mother sent for him because she was ill and could no longer look after their affairs. When he arrived home, his rich relatives were displeased because his presence meant they could no longer rob their kinsmen. They were, however, related to the emperor, who put off the matter of giving Virgilius his due. His enemies attacked him but Virgilius used his magic to drive them off or cast spells on them. The emperor himself went to him without effect until a magician came into camp and was hired to battle Virgilius. Virgilius had a hard time fighting the magician, but reached the emperor in secret with a proposition: he would stop the fight if he could have justice, compelling the emperor to agree.\n\nVirgilius then fell in love with a woman named Febilla. She told him that she would let him visit her by drawing him up in a basket to a tower. Once he was in the basket, she lifted it only half way, leaving him a dangling target of the crowd's ridicule. The emperor ordered his release, but the next day, no fire in Rome would light. Virgilius told them to bring Febilla to a scaffold in the market place and take fire from her. Fire started about her and she had to stand there until everyone had re-lit their fires. The emperor threw Virgilius into prison with a death sentence, but when he was brought up, thirsty Virgilius asked for water. When the guards brought him a pail of water, Virgilius jumped into it, saying he was going to Sicily and magically vanished.\n\nAndrew Lang has heavily bowdlerized his sources here; in the original Medieval tradition, the fire could only be rekindled from her vagina. The story was very popular with Renaissance artists. The Metropolitan Museum has a Venetian \"confittiera\" (ca. 1475–1500) showing Febilla standing on the square with raised skirt, a gift by J. Pierpont Morgan.\n\nThe fairy tale says that it is unknown how he reconciled with the emperor, but he next made statues of the gods of every country, including Rome, with bells in their hands, and the bells would ring if they intended treachery toward Rome, so the Romans would send their armies against them. \n\nA country that hated them sent men to Rome; they claimed to be diviners and to have dreamed of gold, and then, with the Senate's permission, dug up the gold they had buried the night before. The third time, they told the Senate it was under the Capitol and they would dig for them, for their generosity; they undermined the Capitol and stole away. Immediately after, the statues fell and were ruined. \n\nMuch crime followed in the city. Virgilius had a copper horse and rider made and ordered all men indoors. Only the honest obeyed, and the horse trampled those it found outside. The next day, the surviving thieves tried to use ropes and grapples to stop it, and used rope ladders to escape it. Two copper dogs were added, to jump up and bite them to death.\n\nVirgilius fell in love with a foreign princess, the daughter of a sultan, and carried her away from her father. She was a guest in his house, wondering at the marvels, until she wished to return to her father. Virgilius returned her, but the sultan ordered his death. Virgilius cast a spell on him and his court and carried the princess away again. Then, thinking Rome not fine enough, he built a marvelous city for her, which was Naples.\n\nThe technique of tricking spirit is a motif also found in \"The Spirit in the Bottle\" and with genies in \"The Fisherman and the Jinni\".\n\nThe legend that he had been trapped in a basket was a common medieval tale, warning of the power of love to make fools of men.\n\nThere is a reference to the \"Black Book\" he uses as the source of his spells which in popular culture can be a book containing lists or evil deeds.\n\n"}
{"id": "49457136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49457136", "title": "Windsor Shahnameh", "text": "Windsor Shahnameh\n\nThe Windsor Shahnameh or Shahnameh of Qarajaghay Khan () is an illustrated manuscript of the Shahnameh, the national epic of Greater Iran. It is one of the most famous manuscripts of the Shahnameh, dating from 1648. The painters are Muhammad Qasim and Muhammad Yusuf. The miniatures of this Shahnameh are very similar to the miniatures of the Shahnameh of Rashida, and therefore it has been suggested that these manuscripts have been prepared by same painters. \n\nThe Windsor Shahnameh contains 148 or 149 miniatures and is written in Nastaʿlīq script by Mohammad Hakim Hosseini to the order of Qarachaqay Khan (one of the commanders-in-chief of Abbas I of Persia). It is in very good condition compared to other manuscripts of the Shahnameh . It is not clear how and when this version of the Shahnameh was acquired by Ahmad Shah Durrani and subsequently his heir, Kamran Shah. In 1839, the Windsor Shahnameh was presented to Queen Victoria by Kamran Shah, for her support of the Afghans against the Qajar dynasty. The manuscript is now in the Royal Collection and usually in the library at Windsor Castle.\n\n"}
