{"id": "17554731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17554731", "title": "Administrative Court (England and Wales)", "text": "Administrative Court (England and Wales)\n\nThe Administrative Court is a specialist court within the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales. It deals mainly with administrative law matters and exercises the High Court's supervisory jurisdiction over inferior courts and tribunals and other public bodies (exercised mainly through the procedure known as \"judicial review\").\n\nThe Administrative Court may sit with a single judge or as a Divisional Court (i.e. with two or more judges). A Divisional Court of the Administrative Court usually consists of a Lord Justice of Appeal sitting with a judge of the High Court. Although the Administrative Court is within the Queen's Bench Division (reflecting the historical role of the Court of Queen's Bench in exercising judicial review), judges from the Chancery Division and the Family Division of the High Court are also assigned to sit.\n\nAdministrative Court page of Her Majesty's Courts and Tribunal Service website\n"}
{"id": "42196519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196519", "title": "Assault weapons legislation in the United States", "text": "Assault weapons legislation in the United States\n\nAssault weapons legislation in the United States refers to bills and laws (active, expired, proposed or failed) that define and restrict or make illegal the manufacture, transfer, and possession of assault weapons. How these firearms are defined and regulated varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.\n\nThe Federal Assault Weapons Ban enacted in 1994 expired in 2004. Attempts to renew this ban have failed, as have attempts to pass a new ban, such as the Assault Weapons Ban of 2013 (AWB 2013). Seven U.S. states have assault weapons bans: three were enacted before the 1994 federal ban and four more passed before the federal ban expired. The majority of states, forty-three, have no assault weapons ban, although two, Minnesota and Virginia, have training and background check requirements for purchasers of assault weapons that are more stringent than those for ordinary firearms. While there are no statewide assault weapon bans in Colorado and Illinois, local bans exist in certain cities or counties in each of these states. In 2018, most Americans supported a ban on assault weapons, according to polls.\n\nThe 1994 federal and 1989 state ban in California were prompted by the 1989 Cleveland Elementary School shooting in Stockton, California. Existing and proposed weapon bans come under renewed interest in the wake of mass shootings, most recently after the December 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in Newtown, Connecticut. In addition to state bans, Washington, D.C. and some U.S. counties and municipalities have assault weapons laws.\n\nIn January 1989 34 children and a teacher were shot in Stockton California . Using a semi-automatic AK-47 assault weapon, five children died. President George H.W. Bush banned the import of semi automatic rifles in March 1989, and made the ban permanent in July 1989. The assault weapons ban tried to address public concern about mass shootings while limiting the impact on recreational firearms use.\n\nIn November 1993 the ban passed the United States Senate. The author of the ban, Dianne Feinstein D-CA, and other advocates said that it was a weakened version of the original proposal. In January 1994 Josh Sugarmann, executive director of the Violence Policy Center, said handguns and assault weapons should be banned. In May of that year former presidents Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Ronald Reagan wrote to the United States House of Representatives in support of banning \"semi-automatic assault guns.\" They cited a 1993 CNN/USA Today/Gallup Poll that found 77 percent of Americans supported a ban on the manufacture, sale, and possession of such weapons. Rep. Jack Brooks, D-TX, then chair of the House Judiciary Committee, tried to remove the ban from the crime bill but failed.\n\nThe Public Safety and Recreational Firearms Use Protection Act, commonly called the federal Assault Weapons Ban (AWB and AWB 1994), was enacted in September 1994. The ban, including a ban on high-capacity magazines, became defunct (expired) in September 2004 per a 10-year sunset provision.\n\nThe proposed bill H.R.4269, the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015, was introduced on December 16 of 2015 to the 114th United States Congress, sponsored by Representative David N. Cicilline of Rhode Island along with 123 original co-sponsors, it currently has 149 co-sponsors, This legislation states that its purpose is \"To regulate assault weapons, to ensure that the right to keep and bear arms is not unlimited, and for other purposes.\"\n\nThe proposed legislation targets various firearm accessories, including the barrel shroud (a safety covering for the barrel of the firearm to prevent the operator from burning his or her hands as the barrel becomes heated after the firing of multiple rounds), pistol grip, and certain types of firearm stocks such as telescoping or collapsing stocks. Also included are lists of various classes and models of firearms, including semi-automatic firearms, AR-15 style rifles, assault weapons, semi-automatic pistols, semi-automatic shotguns, and others, some of which have already been banned or restricted under existing legislation including grenade launchers. The legislation also proscribes high-capacity magazines.\n\nThree U.S. states passed assault weapons bans before Congress passed the federal Assault Weapons Ban of 1994: California in 1989, New Jersey in 1990, and Connecticut in 1993. Four others passed assault weapons bans before AWB 1994 expired in 2004: Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts and New York.\n\nIn May 1989, California became the first state in the U.S. to pass an assault weapons ban, after the January 1989 Cleveland Elementary School shooting in Stockton. The Roberti-Roos Assault Weapons Control Act of 1989, or AWCA, banned semi-automatic firearms that it classified as assault weapons: over 50 specific brands and models of rifles, pistols, and shotguns. It also banned magazines that it classified as large capacity (those able to hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition). Guns and magazines legally owned at the time the law was passed were grandfathered in if registered with the California Department of Justice.\n\nIn March 1999, State Senator Don Perata introduced Senate Bill 23 (SB 23). The bill had three provisions: to make illegal the manufacture, importation, sale or offer, or to give or lend any large-capacity magazine as defined as having the capacity to accept more than ten rounds; the addition of a \"generic\" definition list to the existing Roberti-Roos legislation; and the exemption to allow on and off duty and retired peace officers the use of assault weapons. They are defined in Penal Code §12276.1 and §30515. The bill was passed and went into effect on January 1, 2000.\n\nIn June 1993, Connecticut became the third U.S. state, after California and New Jersey, to pass an assault weapons ban. In April 2013, four months after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, the Connecticut General Assembly passed new restrictions to the state's existing assault weapons ban. The law was challenged, but a federal judge upheld it and ruled it constitutional. Gun owners said they would appeal.\n\nConnecticut prohibits any person from possessing an assault weapon unless the weapon was possessed prior to July 1, 1994, and the possessor:\n\nConnecticut defines an \"assault weapon\" as:\n\nConnecticut also bans listed makes and models of semiautomatic firearms and copies of those firearms. Grandfather clauses and other exceptions apply, depending.\n\nHawaiian law bans the manufacture, possession, sale or other transfer of what it defines as assault pistols. Hawaii defines an \"assault pistol\" as a semiautomatic handgun that accepts a detachable magazine and that has two or more of: \nIn tandem with the assault pistol ban is a law that bans the manufacture, possession, sale or other transfer of detachable ammunition magazines with capacities greater than 10 rounds that are capable of use with a pistol.\n\nMaryland law prohibits the possession, sale, transfer, purchase, receipt, or transportation into the state of assault weapons defined as assault pistols and assault long guns. Maryland's definition of an \"assault long gun\" includes a list of 45 specific firearms or their copies, with certain variations. Maryland's definition of an \"assault pistol\" includes a list of 15 specific firearms or their copies, with certain variations. Maryland also defines an assault weapon \"copycat weapon\" as:\nIn tandem with the assault weapons ban is a law that bans the manufacture, sale or other transfer of detachable magazines with capacities greater than 20 rounds.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court refused to hear a challenge to the Maryland ban in November 2017. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit in Richmond had upheld the ban, stating that: \"[A]ssault weapons and large-capacity magazines are not protected by the Second Amendment.\" Attorneys general in 21 states and the NRA had asked the Supreme Court to hear the case.\n\nMassachusetts law bans the sale, transfer, or possession of assault weapons not otherwise lawfully possessed on September 13, 1994. Massachusetts defines \"assault weapon\" by the definition of \"semiautomatic assault weapon\" in the federal assault weapons ban of 1994. That definition included:\nIn tandem with the assault weapons ban is a law that bans the sale, transfer, or possession of a large capacity feeding device unless such device was lawfully possessed on September 13, 1994. The definition of \"large capacity feeding device\" included: a fixed or detachable magazine, box, drum, feed strip or similar device capable of accepting, or that can be readily converted to accept, more than 10 rounds of ammunition or more than 5 shotgun shells; or a large capacity ammunition feeding device as defined in the federal assault weapons ban of 1994.\n\nIn May 1990, New Jersey became the second state in the U.S. to pass an assault weapons ban, after California. At the time, it was the toughest assault weapons ban in the nation. AR-15 semi-automatic rifles are illegal in New Jersey, and owning and publicly carrying other guns require separate licensing processes.\n\nAlthough it is commonly referred to as an assault weapons ban, New Jersey's law actually uses the term \"assault firearm\" to define banned and regulated guns. Some New Jersey gun advocates have called its laws \"draconian.\" Attorney Evan Nappen, author of several books on New Jersey gun laws, says the term is \"misapplied and carries with it a pejorative meaning.\"\n\nNew York law bans the manufacture, transport, disposal or possession of an assault weapon in the state. It defines an \"assault weapon\" as:\nIn tandem with the assault weapons ban is a law that bans the manufacture, transport, disposal or possession of a \"large capacity ammunition feeding device,\" defined as: \"a magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or similar device that: 1) has a capacity of, or that can be readily restored or converted to accept, more than ten rounds of ammunition; 2) contains more than seven rounds of ammunition; or 3) is obtained after January 15, 2013 and has a capacity of, or can be readily restored or converted to accept more than seven rounds of ammunition.\"\n\nSome local governments have laws that ban or restrict the possession of assault weapons.\n\nA Washington, D.C. law banning the possession of assault weapons was upheld by a federal appeals court in 2011.\n\nThe law that set up Illinois' concealed carry system in 2013 also established state preemption for certain areas of gun law, including restrictions on assault weapons. Laws passed before July 20, 2013 are grandfathered in, and a number of local governments in the Chicago area have laws that either prohibit or regulate the possession of firearms that they define as assault weapons. These include the city of Chicago and Cook County. On December 7, 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States refused to grant a writ of certiorari to take up a challenge brought against a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit which had upheld a local law banning assault weapons and large-capacity magazines in the Chicago suburb of Highland Park, Illinois. In refusing to hear the case, the Supreme Court allowed the ruling to stand and the ban to remain in place.\n\nIn March 1989 the Northwest Indiana cities of Gary and East Chicago city councils passed ordinances prohibiting both sale and possession of assault weapons. Gary City Councilman Vernon G. Smith (D-4th) sponsored the ordinance making it a crime to possess or sell assault-type weapons. Both of these ordinances were invalidated under statewide pre-emption legislation enacted by the Indiana General Assembly and signed into law by Governor Mitch Daniels in 2011.\n\nBoston has a law prohibiting the possession or transfer of assault weapons without a license from the Boston Police Commissioner.\n\nShortly after the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting, a CBS News poll found that a majority of Americans (57%) supported a ban on assault weapons. Gallup noted a similarly high percentage of Americans thought that a ban would be an effective response to terrorism after the 2015 San Bernardino shooting (55%), and in 2013 when the question was put in a referendum format (\"Would you vote for or against a law that would reinstate and strengthen the ban on assault weapons that was in place from 1994 to 2004?\") (56% support). But it noted that \"Support for stricter gun control laws often rises after high-profile shooting incidents and then often subsides again,\" and that support for stricter gun controls, although still a majority view, had declined since the early 1990s. By October 2016, support for an assault weapons ban had fallen to a historical low of 36%.\n\nIn 2017 68% of American adults supported banning assault weapons, including 48% of gun owners and 77% of non-gun owners, and 38% of Republicans and 66% of Democrats, according to a Pew Research Center survey with an error attributable to sampling of +/- 2.8% at the 95% level of confidence.\n"}
{"id": "221570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221570", "title": "Basic law", "text": "Basic law\n\nThe term \"basic law\" is used in some places as an alternative to \"constitution\", implying it is a \"temporary but necessary measure\" without formal enactment of constitution. A basic law is either a codified constitution, or in countries with uncodified constitutions, a law given to have constitution powers and effect. The name is usually used to imply an interim or transitory nature, or avoid attempting a claim to being \"the highest law\", often for religious reasons. In West Germany the term \"Basic Law\" (\"Grundgesetz\") was used to indicate that the Basic Law was provisional until the ultimate reunification of Germany. But in 1990 no new constitution was adopted and instead the Basic Law was adopted throughout the entire German territory. Basic law is entrenched in that it overrides ordinary 'statute law' passed by the legislature.\n\nThe Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China, namely Hong Kong and Macau, have basic laws as their constitutional documents. The basic laws are the highest authority, respectively, in the territories, while the rights of amendment and interpretation rest with the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. Also\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39219801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39219801", "title": "Brayton Purcell", "text": "Brayton Purcell\n\nBrayton Purcell, LLP (also known as Brayton Law) is a law firm based in Novato, California. The firm has 45 attorneys and 220 support staff. The majority of the firm's cases involve personal injury, and 75% of all cases are asbestos related.\n\nPrior to law school, founding partner Alan Brayton graduated from the US Air Force Academy in 1971. In 1972 he received a master's in finance from UCLA, and in 1976 he earned his J.D. from UC Berkeley. \n\nIn 1983 founding partner Alan Brayton established the firm. In 1995 senior partner and lead trial counsel Gilbert Purcell joined to name the partnership Brayton Purcell. \n\nIn 2006 Alan Brayton was named president of the Trial Lawyers for Public Justice Foundation. \n\nIn 2011 James Nevin became a member of the American Board of Trial Advocates at the age of 36, making him the youngest ever member.\n\nIn 2002 a California jury granted the largest asbestos case award to the plaintiff in a case tried by Brayton Purcell employees. \"Alfred Todak v. Foster Wheeler LLC\" resulted in a $33.7 million verdict for the former Navy electrician and his wife.\n\nIn 2007 a judge stated that the law firm \"lied to the court, submitted fraudulent asbestos claim forms and broke other rules\" in an asbestos-related case. As a result, the firm was barred from participating in the rest of the case.\n\nIn May 2015 a federal judge in California sanctioned and fined Brayton Purcell partner Gilbert Purcell for lying about witness testimony. Purcell and several other members of his team were fined $250 each. Purcell lied about whether a particular witness would testify about how chemotherapy may have exacerbated his client's kidney problems.\n"}
{"id": "29854644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29854644", "title": "Burkinabé constitutional referendum, 1991", "text": "Burkinabé constitutional referendum, 1991\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Burkina Faso on 9 June 1991. It followed a military coup in 1980, and would restore multi-party democracy. The new constitution retained the presidential system of government, created a bicameral parliament, and limited the President to two seven-year terms. It was approved by 92.83% of voters with a 48.8% turnout.\n"}
{"id": "11894647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11894647", "title": "Claude Le Coz", "text": "Claude Le Coz\n\nClaude Le Coz (1740–1815) was a French Catholic bishop.\n\nLe Coz was born at Plouévez-Parzay, Finistère. He was pupil, then professor, and finally principal of the Collège de Quimper. He took the constitutional oath in 1791, was elected constitutional bishop of Ille-et-Vilaine, and wrote in defence of his election — declared null and void by the pope — \"Accord des vrais principes de la morale et de la raison sur la Constitution civile du clergé\".\n\nElected to the Legislative Assembly, he showed courage and ability in defending against the majority Catholic colleges, the ecclesiastical costume, and even Christian marriage. His moderation drew upon him the severity of the Convention, and he spent fourteen months in the prison of Mont-Saint-Michel. Later, under the Directory, the vigour with which he opposed the substitution of the \"decadi\" for the Christian Sunday came near causing his deportation.\n\nUnder the Concordat of 1802, Le Coz was one of the Constitutional bishops whom the force of circumstances compelled the Holy See to recognize, and he became Archbishop of Besançon. Bernier, the ecclesiastical diplomat who negotiated the rehabilitation of the jurors, thought it best, in order to avoid delay, not to make a clear mention of the manner of retractation required by Pope Pius VII; as a consequence, Le Coz denied ever having retracted, and the awkwardness of the situation was ended only by a personal interview between Le Coz and Pius VII, in which both were seen weeping but of which neither ever spoke.\n\nAs schismatic Bishop of Ille-et-Vilaine, Le Coz failed in his endeavour to organize the new province of which he was the metropolitan; otherwise he proved a zealous administrator and a charitable pastor. The strange mixture in Le Coz's life, is partly explained by his intensely Gallican education, which caused him to adopt and to maintain with obstinacy schismatic views. His Gallicanism, which made him so haughty toward the pope, found him almost cringing before the various political regimes which succeeded one another during his episcopate. Le Coz, even against the all-powerful Abbé Grégoire, defended the cause of religion in the \"Annales de la Religion\", in which he was a collaborator, and in his \"\", part of which has been published. He died at Villevieux, Jura.\n\n"}
{"id": "256077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256077", "title": "Coca eradication", "text": "Coca eradication\n\nCoca eradication is a strategy promoted by the United States government starting in 1961 as part of its \"War on Drugs\" to eliminate the cultivation of coca, a plant whose leaves are not only traditionally used by indigenous cultures but also, in modern society, in the manufacture of cocaine. The strategy was adopted in place of running educational campaigns against drug usage. The prohibitionist strategy is being pursued in the coca-growing regions of Colombia (Plan Colombia), Peru, and formerly Bolivia, where it is highly controversial because of its environmental, health and socioeconomic impact. Furthermore, indigenous cultures living in the \"Altiplano\", such as the Aymaras, use the coca leaf (which they dub the \"millenary leaf\") in many of their cultural traditions, notably for its medicinal qualities in alleviating the feeling of hunger, fatigue and headaches symptomatic of altitude sicknesses. The growers of coca are named \"Cocaleros\" and part of the coca production for traditional use is legal in Peru, Bolivia and Chile.\n\nPlots denuded of coca plants by mechanical means (burning or cutting) or chemical herbicides, such as glyphosate, are abandoned and cause serious problems with erosion in seasonal rains. Because of the continuous high demand for coca, once a plot is destroyed the planters simply move further into the forest, clearing new lands for coca production. It is this vicious cycle of unsustainable cultivation-eradication that has caused the environment in coca producing zones to suffer substantial decline.\n\nAerial spraying of glyphosate herbicide, one of the most controversial methods of coca eradication, has taken place in Colombia exclusively because of that government's willingness to cooperate with the United States in the militarized eradication of coca after signing Plan Colombia in 2000. In many cases the spraying is carried out by American contractors, such as DynCorp, using planes and helicopters to spray glyphosate on coca plantations. Aerial spraying has been repeatedly condemned by human rights and environmental activists because of its effect on human populations and local soil and water systems. In December 2000, Dutch journalist Marjon van Royen found that \"because the chemical is sprayed in Colombia from planes on inhabited areas, there have been consistent health complaints [in humans]. Burning eyes, dizziness and respiratory problems being most frequently reported.\" In some areas, 80 percent of the children of the indigenous community fell sick with skin rashes, fever, diarrhoea and eye infections. Because the glyphosate is sprayed from the air, there is a much higher chance of human error when spraying suspected illegal coca plantations. In many cases the wrong fields are sprayed, resulting in not only a total loss of the farmer's crop- but the loss of that field altogether as nothing will grow where the herbicide has been sprayed. Though official documentation of the health effects of glyphosate spraying in Colombia are virtually non-existent, neighbouring Ecuador has conducted studies to determine the cause of mysterious illnesses amongst people living along the border of Colombia and has since demanded that no aerial sprayings occur within 10 km of the border because of the damages caused to the people, animals and environment in that area.\n\nIn addition, the U.S. has also been involved in the development of the fungus \"Fusarium oxysporum\" to wipe out coca. In 2000, the Congress of the United States approved use of \"Fusarium\" as a biological control agent to kill coca crops in Colombia (and another fungus to kill opium poppies in Afghanistan), but these plans were canceled by then-President Clinton, who was concerned that the unilateral use of a biological agent would be perceived by the rest of the world as biological warfare. The Andean nations have since banned its use throughout the region. (The use of biological agents to kill crops may be illegal under the Biological Weapons Convention of 1975.)\n\nOn June 25, 2003, the Superior Administrative Court of the Colombian department of Cundinamarca ordered a stop to the spraying of glyphosate herbicides until the government complies with the environmental management plan for the eradication program. It also mandated a series of studies to protect public health and the environment. The Colombian State Council, the country's maximum administrative authority, later overruled the court's decision to stop fumigations.\n\nRecently, Boliviana negra, a glyphosate-resistant type of genetically engineered coca plant has been introduced, which was found to resist glyphosate herbicides as well as have an increased yield.\n\nIn the sierra of Peru, Bolivia, and northern Argentina, coca has been consumed (by chewing and brewing in infusion) for thousands of years as a stimulant and cure for altitude sickness; it also has symbolic value. The sale and consumption of coca (but not pure cocaine) is legal and legitimate in these countries.\n\nWith the growth of the Colombian drug cartels in the 1980s, coca leaf became a valuable agricultural commodity, particularly in Peru and Bolivia, where the quality of coca is higher than in Colombia. To supply the foreign markets, the cartels expanded the cultivation to areas where coca was not a traditional crop. Many poor campesinos, driven from the central highlands by lack of land or loss of jobs, migrated to the lowlands and valleys of the eastern Andes, where they turned to the cultivation of coca.\n\nTo counter this development, the U.S. government, through its foreign aid agency USAID, has promoted a policy of crop substitution, whereby coca cultivation is replaced by coffee, banana, pineapple, palm heart, and other crops suitable for a tropical climate. However; many remote coca-growing areas lack the infrastructure to get such perishable products to market on time. Coca on the other hand stores well and is easily transportable. The price of coca has remained high and in many cases remains a more attractive crop to farmers than these alternatives.\n\nDespite these obstacles, many farmers have embraced alternative crops. In 2006, Bolivia, as a result of alternative development programs, exported US$28 million of banana, US$1.9 million of pineapple, and US$7.0 million of palm heart. These industries now employ more than 20,000 people in the Chapare region.\n\nGiven the above-mentioned considerations, many critics of coca eradication believe the fundamental goal of the U.S. government is to constrict the flow of income to the Colombian Marxist rebel movement, FARC, which is heavily funded by the illegal drug trade, rather than combating drugs \"per se\". Few if any such critics have anything favorable to say about the illicit drug trade, but they point out that under the current coca eradication policies, poor campesinos bear the brunt of efforts to combat it, while North American and European chemical companies (which supply chemicals needed in the manufacture of cocaine) and banks (which annually launder hundreds of billions of dollars in illegal revenues) continue to profit from the trade. (Although it should be noted that it is illegal in the United States for banks to hold funds from drug cartels - such as FARC - that have been designated as foreign terrorist organizations.)\n\nThe US-based Drug Enforcement Administration, along with local governments, has frequently clashed with \"cocaleros\" in attempts to eradicate coca across the Andes. This map shows the Chapare region in Bolivia, which has historically been heavily targeted for coca eradication. Human rights NGOs such as Human Rights Watch have accused the US of human rights abuses in the \"coca war\".\n\nMeanwhile, the US-based Stepan Company is authorized by the Federal Government to import and process the coca plant which it obtains mainly from Peru and, to a lesser extent, Bolivia. Besides producing the coca flavoring agent for Coca-Cola, Stepan Company extracts cocaine from the coca leaves, which it sells to Mallinckrodt, a St. Louis, Missouri pharmaceutical manufacturer that is the only company in the United States licensed to purify cocaine for medicinal use.\n\nAt the start of 2003, there were 1,740 km of coca in worldwide cultivation, and Colombia represented more than 60% of that total. Critics of the Colombian eradication program had predicted that it would lead to higher coca production in Peru and Bolivia. However, in November 2003, the US Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) claimed the area planted with coca in Peru and Bolivia combined fell by 35 km in the year up to June, which would suggest that the crop eradication program in neighboring Colombia had not driven production over the borders. According to ONDCP estimates, the area cultivated with coca in Bolivia rose from 244 km in 2002 to 284.5 km in June 2003, but this increase was more than offset in Peru, where the area fell from 366 km to 311.5 km.\n\nThe U.S. figures were very different from preliminary estimates in September 2003 by the head of the UN Office on Drugs and Crime in Colombia, which indicated that output in Peru and Bolivia may have risen by as much 21%, or 150 km that year. The White House office said its estimate was based on sampling from high resolution satellite imagery. The United Nations used a different technique and had not yet put out any formal estimate for 2003.\n\nA March 2005 report by the ONDCP indicated that despite record aerial spraying of over 1,300 km of coca in Colombia in 2004, the total area under coca cultivation remained \"statistically unchanged\" at 1,140 km. In response to the report, the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), an NGO that monitors the impact of US foreign policy in Latin America, observed that the aerial spraying strategy appeared to have hit its limits. According to WOLA, the new ONDCP data suggested a continued \"balloon effect\" as aggressive spraying in some areas has not deterred new cultivation elsewhere. The WOLA Senior Associate for Drug Policy commented, \"The stable cultivation in 2004 throws into doubt US officials’ predictions of a major impact on US drug prices and purity.\" Regardless, Colombian President Álvaro Uribe vowed to press ahead with the U.S.-financed fumigation of coca crops.\n\nOfficial estimates of coca cultivation in Peru for 2005 have yet to be released, but the State Department’s own reporting suggests that cultivation in Peru has increased.\n\nIn Bolivia, there has been a decrease in clashes since 2004, when Evo Morales and former President Carlos Mesa struck a deal allowing the Chapare region to legally grow a limited amount of coca, in addition to the already legal Yungas region.\n\nIn 2006 the Colombian government destroyed around 730 square kilometres, reaching new records in coca plant destruction. The Colombian government planned to destroy around 500 km of coca plants in 2007, which would leave only around 200 km left. The Colombian government planned to destroy the remaining coca gradually over the following years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49147367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49147367", "title": "Commission of Truth and Reconciliation (Yugoslavia)", "text": "Commission of Truth and Reconciliation (Yugoslavia)\n\nThe Commission for Truth and Reconciliation in Yugoslavia was created in March 2001 through a mandate from President Vojislav Kostunica. The Commission was given a time limit of three years to complete its work and submit a report. Kostunica ordered the Commission to outline its own terms as far as the scope of the mandate. The Commission was eventually tasked with investigating the causes of conflicts in the territories of the Former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In February 2002, nearly a year after it was announced, the Commission began its work. During the years specified in the Commission's mandate (2001-2004), former President Slobodan Milosevic was standing trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. The Commission had planned to fully cooperate with the ICTY and briefly entertained the idea of holding regional hearings throughout the former republic to gather evidence. In early 2003, Yugoslavia formally dissolved and became Serbia and Montenegro. This effectively ended the Commission as it relied on a mandate from the president of Yugoslavia, an office that no longer existed. As far as it is known, the Commission never conducted any interviews, held any hearings, or filed any reports.\n\nThe “Yugoslav idea” developed out of a desire expressed by Serbs and Croats to be independent from the former Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian Empires. Following World War I, Yugoslavia was created from the remains of these empires. However, there would be a number of reconstructions of the land until World War II. In 1945, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was officially established. The population of Yugoslavia was made up of two main ethnic groups. The Narodi included Croatians, Serbs, Macedonians, and Montenegrins. The Narodnosti were Albanians, Hungarians, Turks, and Slovenians. Originally, these groups lived relatively harmoniously. It was only in recent decades that major conflicts erupted. There have been four notable ethnically based conflicts in Yugoslavia: Serbs and Croats, Serbs and Muslims, Serbs and the multiethnic population of Sarajevo, and Muslims and Croats. Similarly, recent Yugoslavian history is marked by three main conflicts: war in Slovenia in 1991, war in Croatia in 1991, and war in Bosnia-Herzegovina in 1992.\n\nDuring the years of the Kosovo Conflict (1998–99), Yugoslavia saw a dramatic increase in anti-Serb propaganda which caused Serbs to react violently towards other ethnic groups, mostly Albanians. Yugoslavian President Slobodan Milošević, a Serb himself, attempted to re-write the historical narrative by countering with his own propaganda to make the Serbs look like victims. It was well-known that the Serbs were the cause of many past conflicts in the region The violence between Serbs and Albanians created what Milošević referred to as the \"Kosovo problem\". He believed that, although Albanians had the right to self-determination, they did not have a right to independence. The Kosovo region was historically and culturally significant to Serbs and needed to remain a part of Yugoslavia.\n\nIt is estimated that the Kosovo Conflict saw 200,000 deaths and millions more displaced. It was believed by many that Milošević's actions led to these consequences. On May 24, 1999 Milošević was indicted on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity by the ICTY. However, he would stay in power until October 2000 when he lost the presidential election to Kostunica. On April 1, 2001 Yugoslavian authorities arrested Milošević on charges of corruption and abuse of power. After a lengthy debate in the government, he was extradited to The Hague in July. Kostunica denounced the extradition, saying that it violated a policy in the Yugoslavian constitution which prohibited the extradition of criminals to other countries. The government maintained that because the UN is not a country, the policy does not apply.\n\nThe formation of the Commission was formally announced by Kostunica in March 2001. It began its work in February 2002, nearly a year later. The Commission ended in early 2003, a year short of its mandated time limit. Since the Commission required a mandate from the president of Yugoslavia (a position that did not exist after the disbanding of Yugoslavia), the work could not be continued.\n\nDespite the fact the Kostunica authorized the Commission, he allowed the commissioners to outline their own terms. His only stipulation was that the Commission would have three years to conduct its work and submit a final report. Eventually the Commission was tasked with investigating the \"causes and the course of events of all conflicts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia.\" The Commission was state funded, but it also accepted private donations, though little funding came from outside the government. Although the funding came from the government, the Commission was in charge of determining how the budget would be spent. There was also a permanent staff that would work for the Commission. However, by August 2001, no funding or staff had been put in place yet. The staff positions were eventually filled with much of the staff being on loan from Kostunica's office. Two staff members resigned from their posts shortly after the Commission's work began in 2002. The Commission stated that it would work in full compliance with the ICTY and raised the idea of holding regional hearings across the former republic.\n\nDue to the premature end of the Commission, a formal report was never submitted. No hearings were ever held nor were any interviews ever conducted. The Commission faced much criticism from both domestic and international sources. Some Yugoslavian citizens pushed for more diversity in the Commission's staff. They felt that the commissioners were too close to Kostunica and thus their judgement was being influenced. It was clear that neither the Commission nor the government had any inclination to conduct a real investigation. Others worried that the Commission was trying to re-write history rather uncover the truth. International critics felt that the mandate needed to be clarified and streamlined. They also remarked on the fact that three years is an unusually long time for a truth commission to last.\n"}
{"id": "58975653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58975653", "title": "Consumer Review Fairness Act", "text": "Consumer Review Fairness Act\n\nThe Consumer Review Fairness Act of 2016, signed into law by President Barack Obama on December 14, 2016, is a federal consumer protection statute banning the use of gag clauses in non-negotiable consumer form contracts.\n\nOn September 16, 2015, Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, along with Senators Schatz and Jerry Moran, introduced the Consumer Review Freedom Act of 2015 (S. 2044). The legislation was co-sponsored by Senator Bill Nelson and Senators Richard Blumenthal, Claire McCaskill, Steve Daines, and Cory Booker. Similar legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congressman Darrell Issa on April 29, 2015 (H.R. 2110).\n\nOn November 4, 2015, the Senate Commerce Committee held a hearing exploring the impact of non-disparagement clauses in form contracts. Witnesses testified that non-disparagement clauses have been used in many industries, including health care, retail, and hospitality. The Committee also heard testimony from Jen Palmer, a consumer and plaintiff in the lawsuit Palmer v. Kleargear.com. In that case, an online retailer demanded that Ms. Palmer remove a negative online review or pay $3,500 in damages because the website's terms of service included a non-disparagement clause. The Senate Commerce Committee received testimony that California has enacted a law to bar such clauses in non-negotiable form contracts. The Committee also learned that the FTC has brought an enforcement action against one company, alleging, inter alia, that the firm's threats to enforce a gag provision against consumers to stop them from posting negative reviews and testimonials online constitute an unfair trade practice in violation of section 5 of the FTC Act. In some cases, judges have refused to enforce non-disparagement clauses in form contracts usually on the grounds of unconscionability. Despite the persuasive rational of these judicial opinions, the Commerce Committee nevertheless felt that federal legislation was necessary to eliminate any ambiguity over the enforceability of non-disparagement clauses.\n\nThe Consumer Review Fairness Act of 2016 invalidates non-disparagement clauses in form contracts and makes it unlawful for a person to offer or enter into a contract containing a non-negotiable non-disparagement clause. Violations of this prohibition are enforced by the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. The law does not limit the ability of a person or business to file a civil cause of action for defamation, libel, slander, or any similar cause of action under State law.\n\nIn August 2018, the FTC brought its first case charging violations of the Consumer Review Fairness Act against the marketers behind a purported money-making promotion called Sellers Playbook. In that case, the FTC alleged that, in addition to misrepresenting earnings claims, the defendants offered form contracts to their customers that contained provisions that bar or restrict their customers' ability to engage in reviews and performance assessments, among other things.\n"}
{"id": "44888627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44888627", "title": "Cormorant culling", "text": "Cormorant culling\n\nCormorant culling is the intentional killing of cormorants by humans for the purposes of wildlife management. It has been practiced for centuries, with supporters of culling generally arising from the angling community. Culling techniques may involve the killing of birds, the destruction of eggs or both. Historically, culls have occurred to protect the interests of recreational and commercial fishermen who perceive the animals to be competing with them for their intended catch or for the prey of their intended catch. Since the 1960s, the growing aquaculture industry has undertaken cormorant culls to protect its farmed fish and crustacean stocks. Opponents of cormorant culling include conservation groups such as the National Audubon Society, Cormorant Defenders International and Sea Shepherd.\n\nThe target species are primarily the double-crested cormorant in North America and the great cormorant in Europe, Japan and Australia. The little black cormorant has also been targeted in Australia. In Africa, the reed cormorant is targeted and shot.\n\nBefore Europeans became a major presence, double-crested cormorants lived throughout much of their current North American range, usually in populations far greater than 21st century observations. After birdwatching near Natchez, Mississippi in December 1820, John James Audubon reported: “We saw to day probably \"Millions\" of those . . . Cormorants, flying Southwest—they flew in Single Lines for several Hours extremely high.” No comparable numbers of the birds can be seen today.\n\nAfter a protracted period of cormorant population reduction due to expanding human settlement, breeding habitat loss and persecution in the forms of shooting and egging, a turning point for the species was reached in 1972. The National Audubon Society listed the double-crested cormorant as a species of special concern. The state of Wisconsin declared cormorants endangered and began building nesting structures to help them return. The use of DDT was banned, a chemical agent which was proven to thin cormorant eggs and had impacted recruitment since its introduction following World War II. Congress also signed a revised Migratory Bird Treaty Act granted cormorants federal protection. Since that time, the species has been recovering.\n\nCatfish and baitfish aquaculture have grown rapidly since the 1960s, particularly in the south-eastern United States. Open aquaculture ponds provide winter or year-round homes and food for cormorants on the species' long-established migration route. This has also led to conflict and prompted culling at aquaculture facilities. Cormorants’ effect on the aquaculture industry is significant, with a dense flock capable of consuming a harvest. Cormorants are estimated to cost the catfish industry in Mississippi alone between $10 million and $25 million annually.\n\nThe double-crested cormorant is the only species appreciably found inland in the United States.\n\nShooting is the most commonly employed and immediately effective method of cormorant culling. Sharpshooters are sometimes hired to undertake the work (Shiga prefecture, Japan) and in some jurisdictions, hunters are issued permits to allow them to kill these otherwise protected birds (South Carolina, United States). Birds can be shot on the water, on the wing, or at their breeding sites.\n\nThe smothering of eggs with food-grade corn oil is another method employed by authorized persons. Once applied, the eggs' porous surface, which allows the transport of oxygen, becomes clogged with oil. The parent birds continue to incubate the oiled eggs, which ultimately fail to hatch.\n\nCormorant culling has occurred in many countries including Australia, the United Kingdom, Germany, Estonia, Japan, the United States and Canada.\n\nThe culling of cormorants occurred in Australia from the 1900s to the 1960s for the purposes of reducing competition with recreational and commercial fisheries. In some cases, bounties were offered as incentives to encourage people to hunt the birds. Primary target species included the little black cormorant and great cormorant.\n\nIn New South Wales, a bounty was in place for a number of years prior to 1919. It was discontinued as inland cormorant populations continued to be replenished via migration and it was proven to be ineffective in preventing fish losses. During the bounty period approximately 44,000 cormorants were killed.\n\nSince the development of the aquaculture industry, cormorants have been responsible for some stock losses including at commercial prawn farms. In Bowen, Queensland, the use of non-lethal methods to deter the animals from settling on farm ponds and feeding on farmed prawns has been adopted in favor of culling.\n\nIn April 1905, the South Australian government inaugurated a bounty of 1d per head of cormorant or freshwater turtle. Prior May 1908, 25,537 cormorant heads were paid for, and 89,333 turtles. Most of the cormorants came from Kangaroo Island and Franklin Harbor rookeries and the turtles were caught in the Murray River and its lakes.\n\nIn the year 1909-1910, 3183 cormorants were destroyed in South Australia, with bounties paid for their heads. During the same period, 18,706 turtles were also culled as both animals were considered 'enemies' of fish. The total combined bounty paid was £91 4/.\n\nOpponents of the cull argued that cormorants were responsible for keeping toadfish and leatherjacket numbers in check on Kangaroo Island, and that these fish, feeding on the larvae of other fish, likely had a greater impact on reducing quantities of preferred target species than the cormorants' own fishing practices. They argued that the animals should be protected, not hunted.\n\nIn Tasmania in 1954 a bounty on the heads of cormorants was proposed at 5/ per head. The proposal was supported by anglers, who expressed their concern at the animal's impact on trout populations inland. The bounty was raised from 3/6 to 5/- to encourage people to hunt the birds. Tasmania's Northern Fisheries Association responded by planning a special 'black cormorant day' of hunting.\n\nOn Middle Island in Lake Erie, the double-crested cormorant population is managed by the Canadian government. The first three breeding pairs were seen on the island in 1987, and over the following twenty years their population increased to over 5,000 pairs. Pressure on the island and lake's other species via competition, habitat alteration and predation created the case for culling as a management strategy.\n\nIn 1998, a group of fishing guides undertook an unauthorized cull, shooting cormorants on Little Galloo Island in Lake Ontario. Estimates of the scale of the cull range from 800 to 2000 birds. It is a federal offence to kill a protected bird, and eventually the perpetrators were brought to justice.\n\nIn New Brunswick, cormorants are classified as a varmints. As such, holders of a varmint hunting license can kill them in unlimited numbers between early March and late September each year.\n\nIn 2013, the Japanese population of great cormorants, \"Phalacrocorax carbo, \"was estimated to be over 100,000 birds. Conflict between increasing great cormorant populations and the ayu (or ayu sweetfish \"Plecoglossus altivelis\") has led the Japanese government to implement cormorant culling. The ayu is one of the most popular species for commercial and recreational fisheries in Japan.\n\nIn the Shiga prefecture, great cormorants have been responsible for impacts to forests (through alteration of habitat and guano deposition) and fisheries (through predation). At the Lake Biwa rookeries, between 10,000 and 25,000 cormorants were shot annually between the years 2004 and 2012 (with the exception of 2008, during which no birds were shot). Since 2009, sharpshooters have been employed by the government to undertake the culling, replacing hunters.\n\nIn 2010, 2000 cormorants were culled in the United Kingdom under special licences according to the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. The animals have been protected from arbitrary killing in the UK since 1981. A cull for environmental protection purposes is underway at Haweswater, United Kingdom where cormorants are killed for the protection of schelly, an endangered whitefish species.\n\nIn thirteen states of the United States, aquaculture producers may shoot cormorants which feed on their stock in private ponds. They may also call upon government wildlife managers to shoot birds found roosting nearby. Local managers in twenty-four states are allowed to suffocate cormorant eggs with oil, destroy their nests, or kill cormorants that threaten public resources, such as wild fish, plants, and other birds’ nesting areas.\n\nIndividuals and states are permitted to kill a total of 160,000 cormorants each year. An average of about 40,000 cormorants are reported killed each year—perhaps amounting to 2 percent of North America’s population. The kill statistics do not include the tens of thousands of eggs oiled annually.\n\nIn 2000, an unauthorized cull was undertaken on Little Charity Island in Saginaw Bay, Michigan that killed more than 500 cormorants. Despite lacking the required permits to kill the protected species, the perpetrators were not brought to justice.\n\nIn the span of one month, commencing in February 2014, hunters culled 11,653 double-crested cormorants during a licensed action in South Carolina. 1,225 permits were issued to hunters to kill cormorants during this period. One hunter alone reported killing 278 birds. Similar hunts occurred in Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Vermont, and Wisconsin in 2013, resulting in a combined total cull of 21,312 cormorants. The culling was unsuccessfully opposed by the Audubon Society.\n\nA cull of 16,000 double-crested cormorants along the Columbia River in Oregon has been proposed to commence in 2015 and is intended to reduce pressure on salmon stocks.\n\nThe long-term ecological effects of cormorant culling are uncertain and disputed. Cormorant numbers are effectively reduced during culls, but the targeted species remain in recovery after centuries of arbitrary killing and habitat loss. A paucity of dietary studies also means that the impact cormorants have on commercially important species (with the exception of pond-based aquaculture) are difficult to estimate. One unintended consequence of cormorant culling is that managers who enter nesting grounds to cull or oil eggs may cause more harm to other bird species in the process than the nesting cormorants do themselves.\n\nThe primary justification for the culling of cormorants is to reduce pressure on wild or farmed fish populations. It has been suggested that humans have caused the damage to fisheries and aquatic ecosystems through overfishing, introduction of exotic species and pollution. It has been further suggested that money spent trying to manage cormorants could be better used in reducing coastal pollution, securing conservation land and marine preserves, and assisting aquaculture producers and fishermen to develop new bird conservation practices.\n"}
{"id": "30253230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30253230", "title": "Coupon settlement", "text": "Coupon settlement\n\nIn law, a coupon settlement is a resolution between disputing parties in a class action lawsuit, reached either before or after court action begins. In a coupon settlement, class members receive coupons or other promises for products or services instead of a cash award. Coupon settlements are recognised in state and federal courts in the United States.\n\nCoupon settlements have been used as a way for a defendant to forestall major liability by precluding a large number of people from litigating their claims separately, to recover reasonable compensation for the damages. However, existing law requires judicial approval of all coupon settlements, and in most cases class members are given a chance to opt out of class settlement, though class members, despite opt-out notices, may be unaware of their right to opt out because they did not receive the notice, did not read it, or did not understand it. \n\nThe Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (CAFA) addresses some of these concerns. Coupon Settlements may be audited by an independent expert before judicial approval in order to ensure that the settlement will be of value to the class members (28 U.S.C.A. 1712(d)). \n\nIn the United States, federal courts must hold a hearing and make specific findings that the coupon settlement is fair, reasonable, and adequate, and that the class members' interests are represented. The following can be taken into consideration during the hearing:\n\n\nAnother criticism has been that plaintiffs' lawyers involved in coupon settlements receive cash fees in amounts that generally dwarf the award recovered by individual class members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11123627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11123627", "title": "Cumis counsel", "text": "Cumis counsel\n\nA \"Cumis\" counsel is \"an attorney employed by a defendant in a lawsuit when there is a liability insurance policy supposedly covering the claim, but there is a conflict of interest between the insurance company and the insured defendant.\"\n\nThe name derives from the case of \"San Diego Navy Federal Credit Union v. Cumis Insurance Society, Inc.\", which the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District decided on December 3, 1984. While \"Cumis\" is the best-known appellate precedent on the issue of the appointment of independent counsel for the defense of insureds when their insurance company has a conflict of interest, \"Cumis\" was not the first proponent of this principle. The Supreme Court of California approved the concept of independent counsel in an earlier 1964 case, which in turn was based upon a 1925 Kentucky case that laid the foundation for appointing independent counsel in the insurer-insured relationship. \"Cumis\" innovated beyond existing precedent as of 1984 by holding that the insurer was required to pay for the insured's independent counsel, and that a merely theoretical conflict of interest could be ripened by the insurer's act of sending a reservation of rights letter into an actual conflict of interest, which in turn meant that the insured now had a right to independent counsel.\n\n\"Cumis\" concluded as follows:\n\nWe conclude the Canons of Ethics impose upon lawyers hired by the insurer an obligation to explain to the insured and the insurer the full implications of joint representation in situations where the insurer has reserved its rights to deny coverage. If the insured does not give an informed consent to continued representation, counsel must cease to represent both. Moreover, in the absence of such consent, where there are divergent interests of the insured and the insurer brought about by the insurer's reservation of rights based on possible noncoverage under the insurance policy, the insurer must pay the reasonable cost for hiring independent counsel by the insured. The insurer may not compel the insured to surrender control of the litigation ... Disregarding the common interests of both insured and insurer in finding total nonliability in the third party action, the remaining interests of the two diverge to such an extent as to create an actual, ethical conflict of interest warranting payment for the insureds' independent counsel.\n\nThe California State Legislature later enacted a statute governing the right of insured defendants to independent counsel.\n\nA common conflict of interest arises when the insurance company denies or refuses to defend all or part of a claim under a liability insurance policy, such as when an insurance company pays for the defense of a policyholder under a reservation of rights to dispute coverage.\n\nA law firm can still have a conflict of interest, despite the appointment of a \"Cumis\" counsel. However, in some states, the appointment can cure a conflict. The appointment of \"Cumis\" counsel also raises unusual attorney–client privilege issues.\n\nAfter a number of pioneering insurance bad faith cases in the 1950s and 1960s, it became common for U.S. insurers to reflexively issue reservation of rights letters in response to practically every tender of a third party claim by an insured. Under those earlier cases, it was held that if an insurer withdrew a defense after failing to reserve their rights, they could be (and were actually often held to be) liable for all damages suffered by the insured, including damages in excess of the policy's limits of coverage. Therefore, insurers wanted to always reserve their right to withdraw if facts were later discovered precluding coverage (e.g., evidence that the insured was guilty of an intentional tort, which is uninsurable).\n\nThe \"Cumis\" decision changed that practice significantly. Now, in California and several other states, an insurer faced with a new tender has three options: (1) deny the tender completely and either risk an immediate bad faith lawsuit by the insured or having to sue the insured first to obtain a judicial declaration of no coverage (a \"race to the courthouse\"); (2) accept the tender without a reservation of rights and thereby commit to defending the insured to a final judgment (unless the policy is expressly designed so that defense costs \"eat away\" at policy limits); or (3) accept the tender but issue a reservation of rights letter, which may cause the insured to promptly exercise his or her right to \"Cumis\" counsel if a potential conflict of interest is already clear enough at that point in time under the known facts or allegations and the insurer's letter expressly reserves the right to withdraw from the insured's defense and deny indemnity for that reason. In turn, the third option jacks up the insurer's costs because the insurer now has to pay for independent counsel and counsel of its own to monitor the case at arm's length (so that privileged information \"never\" reaches the insurer).\n\nThe advantage of the second option is that by assuming complete responsibility for the defense of its insured, the insurer has more control over defense costs. Most insurers operate so-called \"captive\" law firms (carefully designed to avoid the ban on the corporate practice of law) and also maintain \"panels\" of preferred defense law firms who agree to carefully negotiated rate structures. In contrast, because independent counsel is separate from the insurer, their billing rates will be somewhat higher since they merely must bill the \"reasonable\" rate for their defense services. But if the insurer accepts the defense without a reservation of rights, it must defend \"completely\" and loses the right to recover the cost of defense from the insured even if it later discovers that the entire claim was uninsurable to begin with.\n\nBecause of all these issues, reservation of rights letters are issued today by adjusters only after careful consideration and discussion with experienced insurance coverage counsel.\n\n"}
{"id": "1733617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733617", "title": "Defence Judge Advocate Corps (Denmark)", "text": "Defence Judge Advocate Corps (Denmark)\n\nMilitary Prosecution Service or Judge Advocate General’s Corps (, short FAUK) is a Danish independent military prosecutor and the legal branch of the Danish military. It is a Level.I command and is under the Ministry of Defence. The Judge Advocate General () heads the Defence Judge Advocate Corps. It is located at Kastellet in Copenhagen.\n\nThe Judge advocate General and Judge advocates are members of the military system, but outside the military rank system. The Chief of Defence, otherwise the commander of all Danish military personal, does not have authority over Judge advocates prosecutors.\n\nIn a military criminal case the Defence Judge Advocate Corps conducts investigation and decides whether or not a charge should be brought up.\n\n"}
{"id": "17831399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17831399", "title": "Dummy purchaser", "text": "Dummy purchaser\n\nA dummy purchaser is an agent who buys property on behalf of another, usually to conceal the true purpose of the acquisition. For instance, a shopping mall developer may hire a dummy buyer to purchase the needed vacant lots. Disclosing the principal's identity might prompt the landowners to hold out for a higher price; hence the need for secrecy. It has been hypothesized that dummy buyers could help private sector developers obtain the land needed for highway construction without the need for eminent domain invocation. A principal in such a relationship may be a partially disclosed principal (i.e. the agent informs the seller that he is buying on behalf of someone, but does not reveal that person's identity) or a completely undisclosed principal (i.e. the agent does not reveal that he is acting on anyone's behalf). A dummy purchaser is also sometimes called a straw man.\n\nIn Australia, during periods of conversion of Government land to freehold or leasehold, the practice (also called \"dummyism\") of wealthy squatters employing someone who qualifies as a \"free selector\" to acquire land that they themselves would not have access to. This practice was particularly useful in acquiring or denying to others access to watercourses and thoroughfares.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "159271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159271", "title": "ElcomSoft", "text": "ElcomSoft\n\nElcomSoft Co.Ltd. is a privately owned software company headquartered in Moscow, Russia. Since its establishment in 1990, the company has been working on computer security programs, with the main focus on password and system recovery software.\n\nOn July 16, 2001, Dmitry Sklyarov, a Russian citizen employed by ElcomSoft who was at the time visiting the United States for DEF CON, was arrested and jailed for allegedly violating the United States DMCA law by writing ElcomSoft's Advanced eBook Processor software. A landmark court case ensued, setting precedents and attracting much public attention and protest. On December 17, 2002, ElcomSoft was found not guilty of all four charges under the DMCA. Bruce Chizen, CEO of Adobe Systems, had this to say to CNET:\n\n\"Looking back with 20/20, I wish that we could have had better communication with ElcomSoft, Dmitry Sklyarov and the EFF (Electronic Frontier Foundation) before the whole thing went public. I'm sorry that we weren't able to do that, because I think we could have resolved a lot of the issues.\" \n\nThunder Tables® is the company's own technology developed to ensure guaranteed recovery of Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel documents protected with 40-bit encryption. The technology first appeared in 2007 and employs the time–memory tradeoff method to build pre-computed hash tables, which open the corresponding files in a matter of seconds instead of days. These tables take around ~ 4GB. So far, the technology is used in two password recovery programs: Advanced Office Password Breaker and Advanced PDF Password Recovery.\n\n7,599,492 - Fast cryptographic key recovery system and method \n7,783,046 - Probabilistic cryptographic key identification with deterministic result \n7,787,629 - Use of graphics processors as parallel math co-processors for password recovery \n7,809,130 - Password recovery system and method \n7,929,707 - Use of graphics processors as parallel math co-processors for password recovery \n\nIn 2009 ElcomSoft released a tool that takes WPA/WPA2 Hash Codes and uses brute-force methods to guess the password associated with a wireless network. The brute force attack is carried out by testing passwords with a known SSID of a network of which the WPA/WPA2 Hash Code has been captured. The passwords that are tested are generated from a dictionary using various mutation (genetic algorithm) methods, including case mutation (password, PASSWORD, PassWOrD, etc.), year mutation (password, password1992, password67, etc.), and many other mutations to try to guess the correct password.\n\nThe advantages of using such methods over the traditional ones, such as rainbow tables, are numerous. Rainbow tables, being very large in size because of the amount of SSID/Password combinations saved, take a long time to traverse, cannot have large numbers of passwords per SSID, and are reliant on the SSID being a common one which the rainbow table has already listed hash codes for (Common ones include linksys, belkin54g, etc.). EWSA, however, uses a relatively small dictionary file (a few megabytes versus dozens of gigabytes for common rainbow tables) and creates the passwords on the fly as needed. Rainbow tables are tested against a captured WPA/WPA2 Hash Code via a computer's processor with relatively low numbers of simultaneous processes possible. EWSA, however, can use a computer's processor(s), with up to 32 logical cores, up to 8 GPUs, all with many CUDA cores(NVIDIA) or Stream Processors(ATI).\n\nOn November 30, 2010, Elcomsoft announced that the encryption system used by Canon cameras to ensure that pictures and Exif metadata have not been altered was flawed and cannot be fixed. \nOn that same day, Dmitry Sklyarov gave a presentation at the Confidence 2.0 conference in Prague demonstrating the flaws. Among others, he showed an image of an astronaut planting a flag of the Soviet Union on the moon; all the images pass Canon's authenticity verification.\n\n"}
{"id": "19859773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19859773", "title": "Electoral Commission of Ghana", "text": "Electoral Commission of Ghana\n\nThe Electoral Commission of Ghana is the official body in Ghana responsible for all public elections. Made up of seven members, its independence is guaranteed by the 1992 Ghana constitution. The current commission was established by the Electoral Commission Act (Act 451) of 1993.\nKwadwo Afari-Gyan was the first substantive Chairman of the Commission from 1993-2015.\n\nThe Commission is made up of seven members. The position of Chairman became vacant in June 2018 when the President, Nana Akufo-Addo sacked Charlotte Osei, the first lady to occupy this position in Ghana. This was apparently on the recommendation of a committee set up by Sophia Akuffo, the Chief Justice of Ghana. She was appointed by former President John Mahama, in consultation with the Council of State of Ghana in June 2015. Her two deputies were Amadu Sulley and Georgina Opoku Amankwah. Sulley Amadu was appointed by John Atta Mills, the then Ghanaian President following the retirement of David Kangah who had served in that capacity for 19 years. Georgina Opoku Amankwah was appointed by President John Mahama to replace Sarfo-Kantanka who had served for about 20 years. She is the first female Deputy Chairman of the Commission. There are four other members. Mrs. Paulina Adobea Dadzawa, an administrator and Ebenezer Aggrey Fynn, a Management Consultant were appointed by President Kufuor in consultation with the Council of State of Ghana in February 2004. In June 2018, the Chairman, Charlotte Osei and her two deputies were sacked by Nana Akufo-Addo, President of Ghana following an investigation by a committee set up by the Chief Justice, Sophia Akuffo, following various allegations of fraud and corruption leveled against them.In July 2018,the President of Ghana, Nana Addo Dankwa Akuffo Addo nominated 4 EC top officials The new Electoral Commissioner, Jean Adukwei Mensa along with her two new deputies, Samuel Tettey and Eric Bossman as well as another new member Adwoa Asuama Abrefa were all sworn in by President Akufo-Addo on 1 August 2018.\n\nThe acclaim that the commission received for successfully supporting the close elections of 2008, has made it a focus of African and international election reform organizations. In November 2009, a conference was held to analyze this election, and try to establish new standards and practices for African election commissions. Held in Accra, the conference was titled \"Colloquium on African Elections: Best Practices and Cross-Sectoral Collaboration.\" The conference was organized by a number of international election reform organizations including the National Democratic Institute, the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, the International Foundation for Electoral Systems, the Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy, the Open Society Initiative for West Africa and UNDP.\n\nIn February 2004, three members of the commission retired. They were Elizabeth Solomon, Mrs. Theresa Cole and Professor Ernest Dumor. Another member, Dr. M . K .Puni, died in June 2005. Dixon Afreh is a former member of the Commission who left when he was appointed as a Justice of the Appeal Court in October 1994. Three of the members were appointed by President Kufuor in consultation with the Council of State of Ghana in February 2004 and sworn in on 5 March 2004. They are Mrs. Paulina Adobea Dadzawa, an administrator, Nana Amba Eyiiba I, Efutuhemaa and Krontihemaa of the Oguaa Traditional Area and Eunice Akweley Roberts, an Educationist and Human Resource Practitioner. They were all women. Ebenezer Aggrey Fynn, a Management Consultant was also appointed to the Commission by the President to bring it to its full complement of seven members.\n\nIn June 2018, the chairperson, Charlotte Osei, and her two deputies, Amadu Sulley and Georgina Opoku Amankwah were removed from office by President Akufo-Addo on the recommendation of a committee set up by the chief justice. \n\nThe Electoral Commission of Ghana established a biometric system of registration for the electoral register prior to the 2012 presidential and parliamentary elections to prevent double registration and to eliminate ghost names in the old register.\n\nThe lives of Electoral Commissions prior to the Fourth Republic of Ghana were interrupted due to military coups. At the time of the UNIGOV referendum in 1976, Justice Isaac K. Abban was appointed by the Supreme Military Council under Ignatius Kutu Acheampong. In 1979, Justice Joe Kingsley Nyinah was the Electoral Commissioner during the general election. For the Ghanaian presidential election and parliamentary election in 1992, the Electoral Commissioner was Justice Josiah Ofori Boateng.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12203869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12203869", "title": "Electronic signatures and law", "text": "Electronic signatures and law\n\nWorldwide, legislation concerning the effect and validity of electronic signatures, including, but not limited to, cryptographic digital signatures, includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the EU, electronic signatures and related trust services are regulated by the Regulation (EU) N°910/2014 on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market (eIDAS Regulation). This regulation was adopted by the Council of the European Union on 23 July 2014. It became effective on 1 July and repealed the Electronic Signatures Directive 1999/93/EC. At the same date, any laws of EU member states that were inconsistent with eIDAS were also automatically repealed, replaced or modified. In contract to the aforementioned directive (which allowed the EU member states to interpret it and transpose it to their own law) the eIDAS Regulation is directly effective in all member states. \n\nEuropean Union Directive establishing the framework for electronic signatures:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor an overview of the New Zealand law refer:\n- \"The Laws of New Zealand\", Electronic Transactions, paras 16-18; or\n- \"Commercial Law\", paras 8A.7.1-8A.7.4. (these sources are available on the LexisNexis subscription-only website)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCourt decisions discussing the effect and validity of digital signatures or digital signature-related legislation:\n\n\nUruguay laws include both, electronic and digital signatures:\n\nTurkey has an Electronic Signature Law TBMM.gov.tr since 2004. This law is stated in European Union Directive 1999/93/EC. Turkey has a Government Certificate Authority - Kamu SM for all government agents for their internal use and three independent certificate authorities all of which are issuing qualified digital signatures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15721233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15721233", "title": "English-Speaking Union Moot", "text": "English-Speaking Union Moot\n\nThe English-Speaking Union Moot, also known as, by virtue of a sponsorship arrangement with Essex Court Chambers, the ESU-Essex Court Chambers National Mooting Competition, or simply the ESU Moot, is the longest running national mooting competition in the UK, involving teams of law students from Universities across the country. The competition is run by the English-Speaking Union.\n\nIn addition to being the oldest mooting competition, the ESU moot is also the largest of its kind, accepting entries from Universities across the legal jurisdictions of the UK. Originally, the ESU moot was known as the Observer Moot, and has been known by its current name since 2000. Legal Week currently acts as the competition's media partner.\n\nThe competition takes a knockout format, with 6 rounds, the last two of which take place on the same day. While the number of rounds require 64 participants, there is facility for more competitors than this, with special arrangements made to have pre-competition rounds to whittle the competitors down to 64.\n\nEach round must be completed by a particular preset deadline, with one team being designated the host, and is thus responsible for securing a judge and organising facilities for the moot. All finalists and semi-finalists are presented with monetary prizes. In addition, the winners are awarded the Silver Mace, and the runner's up the Scarman Shield.\n\n"}
{"id": "16044346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16044346", "title": "European Patent Office Reports", "text": "European Patent Office Reports\n\nThe European Patent Office Reports (EPOR) are a series of law reports, including decisions of the Boards of Appeal of the European Patent Office. The reports were published since 1979 and since at least 1989 by Sweet & Maxwell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7742402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7742402", "title": "Faretta v. California", "text": "Faretta v. California\n\nFaretta v. California, 422 U.S. 806 (1975), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that criminal defendants have a constitutional right to refuse counsel and represent themselves in state criminal proceedings.\n\nThe defendant Anthony Faretta was accused of grand theft in Los Angeles County, California. Well before the trial began, the defendant requested permission to represent himself. Questioning by the judge revealed that he had once represented himself in a criminal case and that he believed that the public defender's office was under a heavy case load. The judge warned him that he was making a mistake and emphasized that he would receive no special treatment. The judge entered a preliminary ruling allowing Faretta to represent himself, however stating that he might reverse his decision if it seemed that he was unable to adequately represent himself.\n\nSeveral weeks later, but still before the trial, the judge initiated a hearing to inquire into Faretta's ability to defend himself. After questioning him on numerous topics, including hearsay and juries, the judge ruled that his answers were inadequate and he had not made an intelligent decision to waive counsel. In addition he ruled that Faretta had no constitutional right to his own defense. Therefore he rescinded his previous decision. During the trial the judge denied Faretta's motions to be co-counsel and other motions he attempted to make on his behalf. Subsequently he was convicted by a jury and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nThe California Court of Appeal, which relied on a recent California Supreme Court decision that had expressly decided the issue, ruled that Faretta had no federal or state right to represent himself. Appeal to the Supreme Court of California was denied.\n\nIn the opinion of the court by Justice Stewart, the Court held that a defendant in a state criminal trial has the constitutional right to refuse appointed counsel and conduct the trial when he or she voluntarily and intelligently elects to do so. However, such a defendant may not later complain that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. The court brought analogies to the Star Chamber, saying \"the Star Chamber has, for centuries, symbolized disregard of basic individual rights. The Star Chamber not merely allowed, but required, defendants to have counsel. The defendant's answer to an indictment was not accepted unless it was signed by counsel. When counsel refused to sign the answer, for whatever reason, the defendant was considered to have confessed.\"\n\nJustice Blackmun wrote a dissent where he questioned the additional procedural problems that would inevitably arise by the decision, arguing that such procedural problems would far outweigh whatever tactical advantage the defendant may feel he has gained by electing to represent himself. Blackmun concludes with the following: \"If there is any truth to the old proverb 'one who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client,' the Court by its opinion today now bestows a \"constitutional\" right on one to make a fool of himself.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23699705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23699705", "title": "Human Rights Party Malaysia", "text": "Human Rights Party Malaysia\n\nThe Human Rights Party Malaysia is a Malaysian human rights-based political party founded on 19 July 2009, led by human rights activist P.Uthayakumar. Currently Uthayakumar is the Secretary General (pro tem) of HRP with the support of Uthayakumar's brother and Leader of HINDRAF P.Waythamoorthy.\n\nHuman Rights Party Malaysia was formed as a multiracial party which promises that it would carry on with the Hindraf Makkal Sakthi’s initial 18-point demands dated August 2007 to the government of Malaysia and in particular Article 8 (Equality before the law) Article 12 (1) (b) (no discrimination) and Article 153(1) (legitimate interests of other communities) of the Federal Constitution. The main thrust of this party is to be the focus group in putting the Malaysian Indians back onto the national mainstream development of Malaysia after 52 years of having been left out. The party also focus on all other communities that are suffering from the worst forms of violations of human rights in Malaysia, in particular the Malaysian Indians who instead get the least attention not only from the ruling UMNO regime but also from the opposition parties PKR, DAP, PAS, NGOs, civil society and the print and electronic media generally, albeit to a lesser extent. \n\nThe main struggle of HRP is against all forms of racism and racial discrimination by the current ruling government in Malaysia, namely UMNO.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15328", "title": "Impeachment", "text": "Impeachment\n\nImpeachment is the process by which a legislative body levels charges against a government official. It does not mean removal from office; it is only a statement of charges, akin to an indictment in criminal law. Once an individual is impeached, he or she must then face the possibility of conviction by a legislative vote, which judgment entails removal from office.\n\nBecause impeachment and conviction of officials involve an overturning of the normal constitutional procedures by which individuals achieve high office (election, ratification, or appointment) and because it generally requires a supermajority, they are usually reserved for those deemed to have committed serious abuses of their office. In the United States, for example, impeachment at the federal level is limited to those who may have committed \"high crimes and misdemeanors\".\n\nImpeachment exists under constitutional law in many countries around the world, including Brazil, the Republic of Ireland, India, the Philippines, Russia, South Korea, and the United States.\n\nThe word \"impeachment\" derives from Old French \"empeechier\" from Latin \"impedicare\" expressing the idea of becoming caught or entrapped, and has analogues in the modern French verb \"empêcher\" (to prevent) and the modern English \"impede\". Medieval popular etymology also associated it (wrongly) with derivations from the Latin \"impetere\" (to attack). (In its more frequent and more technical usage, impeachment of a witness means challenging the honesty or credibility of that person.)\n\nImpeachment was first used in the British political system. Specifically, the process was first used by the English \"Good Parliament\" against Baron Latimer in the second half of the 14th century. Following the British example, the constitutions of Virginia (1776), Massachusetts (1780) and other states thereafter adopted the impeachment mechanism, but they restricted the punishment to removal of the official from office. As well, in private organizations, a motion to impeach can be used to prefer charges.\n\nThe Austrian Federal President can be impeached by the Federal Assembly (\"Bundesversammlung\") before the Constitutional Court. The constitution also provides for the recall of the president by a referendum. Neither of these courses has ever been taken. This is likely because while the President is vested with considerable powers on paper, they act as a largely ceremonial figurehead in practice, and are thus hardly in a position to abuse their powers.\n\nThe President of the Federative Republic of Brazil, state governors and municipal mayors may be impeached by the Chamber of Deputies and tried and removed by the Federal Senate. Upon conviction, the officeholder has his political rights revoked for eight years—which has the effect of barring him from running for any office.\n\nFernando Collor de Mello, the 32nd President of Brazil, resigned in 1992 amidst impeachment proceedings. Despite his resignation, the Senate nonetheless voted to convict him and bar him from holding any office for eight years, due to evidence of bribery and misappropriation.\n\nIn 2016, the Chamber of Deputies initiated an impeachment case against President Dilma Rousseff on allegations of budgetary mismanagement. Following her conviction, she was replaced by Vice President Michel Temer, who had served as acting president while Rousseff's case was pending.\n\nThe President of Bulgaria can be removed only for high treason or violation of the constitution. The process is started by a two-thirds majority vote of the Parliament to impeach the President, whereupon the Constitutional Court decides whether the President is guilty of the crime of which he is charged. If he is found guilty, he is removed from power. No Bulgarian President has ever been impeached. The same procedure can be used to remove the Vice President of Bulgaria, which has also never happened.\n\nThe process of impeaching the President of Croatia can be initiated by a two-thirds majority vote in favor in the Sabor and is thereafter referred to the Constitutional Court, which must accept such a proposal with a two-thirds majority vote in favor in order for the president to be removed from office. This has, however, never occurred in the history of the Republic of Croatia. However, in case of a successful impeachment motion a president's constitutional term of five years would be terminated and an election called within 60 days of the vacancy occurring. During the period of vacancy the presidential powers and duties would be carried out by the Speaker of the Croatian Parliament in his/her capacity as Acting President of the Republic.\n\nPrior to 2013 the President of the Czech Republic could be impeached only for an act of high treason (which is not defined in the Constitution of the Czech Republic itself). The process has to start in the Senate of the Czech Republic which only has the right to impeach the president, this passes the case to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic which has to decide whether the President is guilty or not. If the Court decides that the President is guilty then the President loses his office and the ability to be elected President of the Czech Republic ever again. No Czech president has ever been impeached, though, members of the Senate sought to impeach President Vaclav Klaus in 2013. This case was dismissed by the court reasoning that his mandate has expired.\n\nIn 2013 the constitution changed; now the process can be started by at least three-fifths of present senators and must be approved by at least \nthree-fifths of all members of Parliament. Also, the President can be impeached not only for high treason (newly defined in the Constitution) but also for a serious infringement of the Constitution.\n\nThe Federal President of Germany can be impeached both by the Bundestag and by the Bundesrat for willfully violating Federal law. Once the Bundestag or the Bundesrat impeaches the president, the Federal Constitutional Court decides whether the President is guilty as charged and, if this is the case, whether to remove him or her from office. The Federal Constitutional Court also has the power to remove federal judges from office for willfully violating core principles of the federal constitution or a state constitution. The impeachment procedure is regulated in Article 61 of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\nThe Chief Executive of Hong Kong can be impeached by the Legislative Council. A motion for investigation, initiated jointly by at least one-fourth of all the legislators charging the Chief Executive with \"serious breach of law or dereliction of duty\" and refusing to resign, shall first be passed by the Council. An independent investigation committee, chaired by the Chief Justice of the Court of Final Appeal, will then carry out the investigation and report back to the Council. If the Council find the evidence sufficient to substantiate the charges, it may pass a motion of impeachment by a two-thirds majority.\n\nHowever, the Legislative Council does not have the power actually to remove the Chief Executive from office, as the Chief Executive is appointed by the Central People's Government. The Council can only report the result to the Central People's Government for its decision.\n\nThe president, judges including chief justice of supreme court and high courts can be impeached by the parliament before the expiry of the term for violation of the Constitution. Other than impeachment, no other penalty can be given to a president in position for the violation of the Constitution under of the constitution. However a president after his term/removal can be punished for his already proven unlawful activity under disrespecting constitution, etc. No president has faced impeachment proceedings. Hence, the provisions for impeachment have never been tested. The president in position cannot be charged and needs to step down in order for that to happen.\n\nThe Assembly of Experts can impeach the Supreme Leader of Iran and appoint a new one, although the Supreme Leader elects half the Assembly.\n\nThe President of Iran can be impeached jointly by the members of the Assembly (Majlis) and the Supreme Leader. A new presidential election is then triggered. Abolhassan Banisadr, Iran's first president, was impeached in June 1981 and removed from the office. Mohammad-Ali Rajai was elected as the new president.\n\nCabinet ministers can be impeached by the members of the Assembly. Presidential appointment of a new minister is subject to a parliamentary vote of confidence. Impeachment of ministers has been a fairly commonly used tactic in the power struggle between the president and the assembly during the last several governments.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland formal impeachment only applies to the Irish president. Article 12 of the Irish Constitution provides that, unless judged to be \"permanently incapacitated\" by the Supreme Court, the president can only be removed from office by the houses of the Oireachtas (parliament) and only for the commission of \"stated misbehaviour\". Either house of the Oireachtas may impeach the president, but only by a resolution approved by a majority of at least two-thirds of its total number of members; and a house may not consider a proposal for impeachment unless requested to do so by at least thirty of its number.\n\nWhere one house impeaches the president, the remaining house either investigates the charge or commissions another body or committee to do so. The investigating house can remove the president if it decides, by at least a two-thirds majority of its members, both that the president is guilty of the charge, and that the charge is sufficiently serious as to warrant the president's removal. To date no impeachment of an Irish president has ever taken place. The president holds a largely ceremonial office, the dignity of which is considered important, so it is likely that a president would resign from office long before undergoing formal conviction or impeachment.\n\nThe Republic's Constitution and law also provide that only a joint resolution of both houses of the Oireachtas may remove a judge. Although often referred to as the \"impeachment\" of a judge, this procedure does not technically involve impeachment.\n\nIn Italy, according to Article 90 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic can be impeached through a majority vote of the Parliament in joint session for high treason and for attempting to overthrow the Constitution. If impeached, the President of the Republic is then tried by the Constitutional Court integrated with sixteen citizens older than forty chosen by lot from a list compiled by the Parliament every nine years.\n\nItalian press and political forces made use of the term \"impeachment\" for the attempt by some members of parliamentary opposition to initiate the procedure provided for in Article 90 against Presidents Francesco Cossiga (1991), Giorgio Napolitano (2014) and Sergio Mattarella (2018)\n\nMembers of the Liechtenstein Government can be impeached before the State Court for breaches of the Constitution or of other laws. As a hereditary monarchy the Sovereign Prince can not be impeached as he \"is not subject to the jurisdiction of the courts and does not have legal responsibility\". The same is true of any member of the Princely House who exercises the function of head of state should the Prince be temporarily prevented or in preparation for the Succession.\n\nIn the Republic of Lithuania, the President may be impeached by a three-fifths majority in the Seimas. President Rolandas Paksas was removed from office by impeachment on April 6, 2004 after the Constitutional Court of Lithuania found him guilty of having violated his oath and the constitution. He was the first European head of state to have been impeached.\n\nMembers of government, representatives of the national assembly (Stortinget) and Supreme Court judges can be impeached for criminal offenses tied to their duties and committed in office, according to the Constitution of 1814, §§ 86 and 87. The procedural rules were modeled after the US rules and are quite similar to them. Impeachment has been used eight times since 1814, last in 1927. Many argue that impeachment has fallen into desuetude. In cases of impeachment, an appointed court (Riksrett) takes effect.\n\nThe country's ruling coalition said on August 7, 2008, that it would seek the impeachment of President Pervez Musharraf, alleging the U.S.-backed former general had \"eroded the trust of the nation\" and increasing pressure on him to resign. He resigned on August 18, 2008. Another kind of impeachment in Pakistan is known as the vote of less-confidence or vote of mis-understanding and has been practiced by provincial assemblies to weaken the national assembly.\n\nImpeaching a president requires a two-thirds majority support of lawmakers in a joint session of both houses of Parliament.\n\nImpeachment in the Philippines follows procedures similar to the United States. Under Sections 2 and 3, Article XI, Constitution of the Philippines, the House of Representatives of the Philippines has the exclusive power to initiate all cases of impeachment against the President, Vice President, members of the Supreme Court, members of the Constitutional Commissions (Commission on Elections, Civil Service Commission and the Commission on Audit), and the Ombudsman. When a third of its membership has endorsed the impeachment articles, it is then transmitted to the Senate of the Philippines which tries and decide, as impeachment tribunal, the impeachment case.\n\nA main difference from US proceedings however is that only one third of House members are required to approve the motion to impeach the President (as opposed to a simple majority of those present and voting in their US counterpart). In the Senate, selected members of the House of Representatives act as the prosecutors and the Senators act as judges with the Senate President presiding over the proceedings (the Chief Justice jointly presides with the Senate President if the President is on trial). Like the United States, to convict the official in question requires that a minimum of two thirds (i.e. 16 of 24 members) of all the Members of the Senate vote in favor of conviction. If an impeachment attempt is unsuccessful or the official is acquitted, no new cases can be filed against that impeachable official for at least one full year.\n\nThe 1987 Philippine Constitution says the grounds for impeachment include culpable violation of the Constitution, bribery, graft and corruption, and betrayal of public trust. These offenses are considered \"high crimes and misdemeanors\" under the Philippine Constitution.\n\nThe President, Vice President, Supreme Court justices, and members of the Constitutional Commission and Ombudsman are all considered impeachable officials under the Constitution.\n\nPresident Joseph Estrada was the first official impeached by the House in 2000, but the trial ended prematurely due to outrage over a vote to open an envelope where that motion was narrowly defeated by his allies. Estrada was deposed days later during the 2001 EDSA Revolution.\n\nIn 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, impeachment complaints were filed against President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, but none of the cases reached the required endorsement of 1/3 of the members for transmittal to, and trial by, the Senate.\n\nIn March 2011, the House of Representatives impeached Ombudsman Merceditas Gutierrez, becoming the second person to be impeached. In April, Gutierrez resigned prior to the Senate's convening as an impeachment court.\n\nIn December 2011, in what was described as \"blitzkrieg fashion\", 188 of the 285 members of the House of Representatives voted to transmit the 56-page Articles of Impeachment against Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona.\n\nTo date, three officials had been successfully impeached by the House of Representatives, and two were not convicted. The latter, Chief Justice Renato C. Corona, on May 29, 2012 has been convicted by the Senate guilty under Article II of the Articles of Impeachment (of betraying public trust), with 20-3 votes from the Senator Judges.\n\nIn Polish law there is no impeachment procedure defined, as it is present in the other countries. Infringements of the law can be investigated only by special Parliament's Committee or (if accusations involve people holding the highest offices of state) by the State Tribunal. The State Tribunal is empowered to rule for the removal of individuals from public office but it is not a common practice.\n\nThe President can be impeached by Parliament and is then suspended. A referendum then follows to determine whether the suspended President should be removed from office. President Traian Băsescu was impeached twice by the Parliament: in 2007 and more recently in July 2012. A referendum was held on May 19, 2007 and a large majority of the electorate voted against removing the president from office. For the most recent suspension a referendum was held on July 29, 2012, but was invalidated due to low turnout, however the results were heavily against the president ()\n\nThe President of Russia can be impeached if both the State Duma (which initiates the impeachment process through the formation of a special investigation committee) and the Federation Council of Russia vote by a two-thirds majority in favor of impeachment and, additionally, the Supreme Court finds the President guilty of treason or a similarly heavy crime against the nation and the Constitutional Court confirms that the constitutional procedure of the impeachment process was correctly observed. In 1995–1999, the Duma made several attempts to impeach then-President Boris Yeltsin, but they never had a sufficient number of votes for the process to reach the Federation Council.\n\nAccording to the Article 65 Clause 1 of Constitution of South Korea, if President, Prime Minister, or other state council members including Supreme Court and Constitutional court members, violate the Constitution or other laws of official duty, the National Assembly can impeach them. Clause 2 states the impeachment bill may be proposed by one third or more of the total members of the National Assembly, and shall require majority voting and approved by two thirds or more of the total members of the National Assembly. This article also states that any person against whom a motion for impeachment has been passed shall be suspended from exercising his power until the impeachment has been adjudicated and shall not extend further than removal from public office. Provided, That it shall not exempt the person impeached from civil or criminal liability.\n\nTwo presidents have been impeached since the foundation of the Sixth Republic of Korea and adoption of the new Constitution of South Korea in 1987. Roh Moo-hyun in 2004 was impeached by the National Assembly but was overturned by the Constitutional Court. Park Geun-hye in 2016 was impeached by the National Assembly, and the impeachment was confirmed by the Constitutional Court on March 10, 2017.\n\nIn Taiwan, according to the Additional Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of China, impeachment of the president or the vice president by the Legislative Yuan shall be initiated upon the proposal of more than one-half of the total members of the Legislative Yuan and passed by more than two-thirds of the total members of the Legislative Yuan, whereupon it shall be presented to the grand justices of the Judicial Yuan for adjudication.\n\nDuring the crisis which started in November 2013, the increasing political stress of the face-down between the protestors occupying Independence Square in Kiev and the State Security forces under the control of President Yanukovych led to deadly armed force being used on the protestors. Following the negotiated return of Kiev's City Hall on February 16, 2014, occupied by the protesters since November 2013, the security forces thought they could also retake \"Maidan\", Independence Square. The ensuing fighting from 17 through 21 February 2014 resulted in a considerable number of deaths and a more generalised alienation of the population, and the withdrawal of President Yanukovych to his support area in the East of Ukraine.\nIn the wake of the President's departure, Parliament convened on February 22; it reinstated the 2004 Constitution, which reduced Presidential authority, and voted impeachment of President Yanukovych as \"de facto\" recognition of his departure from office as President of an integrated Ukraine. The President riposted that Parliament's acts were illegal as they could pass into law only by Presidential signature.\n\nIn the United Kingdom anybody may be prosecuted and tried by the two Houses of Parliament for any crime. The first recorded impeachment is that of William Latimer, 4th Baron Latimer during the Good Parliament of 1376. The last was that of Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville in 1806.\n\nThe House of Commons holds the power to impeach. Any member may make an accusation of any crime. The member must support the charge with evidence and move for impeachment. If the Commons carries the motion, the mover receives orders to go to the bar at the House of Lords and to impeach the accused \"in the name of the House of Commons, and all the commons of the United Kingdom.\"\n\nThe mover must tell the Lords that the House of Commons will, in due time, exhibit particular articles against the accused, and make good the same. The Commons then usually selects a committee to draw up the charges and create an \"Article of Impeachment\" for each. (In the case of Warren Hastings, however, the drawing up of the articles preceded the formal impeachment.) Once the committee has delivered the articles to the Lords, replies go between the accused and the Commons via the Lords. If the Commons have impeached a peer, the Lords take custody of the accused; otherwise, custody goes to Black Rod. The accused remains in custody unless the Lords allow bail. The Lords set a date for the trial while the Commons appoints managers, who act as prosecutors in the trial. The accused may defend by counsel.\n\nThe House of Lords hears the case. The procedure used to be that the Lord Chancellor presided (or the Lord High Steward if the defendant was a peer); but this was when the Lord Chancellor was both the Lords' presiding officer and head of the judiciary of England and Wales. Since both these roles were removed from that office by the Constitutional Reform Act 2005, which created the Lord Speaker to preside over the Lords and made the Lord Chief Justice head of the judiciary, it is not certain who would preside over an impeachment trial today. If Parliament is not in session, then the trial is conducted by a \"Court of the Lord High Steward\" instead of the House of Lords (even if the defendant is not a peer). The differences between this court and the House of Lords are that in the House all of the peers are judges of both law and fact, whereas in the Court the Lord High Steward is the sole judge of law and the peers decide the facts only; and the bishops are not entitled to sit and vote in the Court. Traditionally, peers would wear their parliamentary robes during the hearings.\n\nThe hearing resembles an ordinary trial: both sides may call witnesses and present evidence. At the end of the hearing the lords vote on the verdict, which is decided by a simple majority, one charge at a time. Upon being called, a peer must rise and declare \"guilty, upon my honour\" or \"not guilty, upon my honour\". After voting on all of the articles has taken place, and if the Lords find the defendant guilty, the Commons may move for judgment; the Lords may not declare the punishment until the Commons have so moved. The Lords may then decide whatever punishment they find fit, within the law. A royal pardon cannot excuse the defendant from trial, but a pardon may reprieve a convicted defendant. However, a pardon cannot override a decision to remove the defendant from the public office they hold.\n\nParliament has held the power of impeachment since medieval times. Originally, the House of Lords held that impeachment could apply only to members of the peerage, as the nobility (the Lords) would try their own peers, while commoners ought to try their peers (other commoners) in a jury. However, in 1681, the Commons declared that they had the right to impeach anyone, and the Lords have respected this resolution. Offices held \"during good behaviour\" are terminable by the writ of either \"quo warranto\" or \"scire facias\", which has even been employed by and against well-placed judges.\n\nAfter the reign of Edward IV, impeachment fell into disuse, the bill of attainder becoming the preferred form of dealing with undesirable subjects of the Crown. However, during the reign of James I and thereafter, impeachments became more popular, as they did not require the assent of the Crown, while bills of attainder did, thus allowing Parliament to resist royal attempts to dominate Parliament. The most recent cases of impeachment dealt with Warren Hastings, Governor-General of India between 1773 and 1786 (impeached in 1788; the Lords found him not guilty in 1795), and Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville, First Lord of the Admiralty, in 1806 (acquitted). The last attempted impeachment occurred in 1848, when David Urquhart accused Lord Palmerston of having signed a secret treaty with Imperial Russia and of receiving monies from the Tsar. Palmerston survived the vote in the Commons; the Lords did not hear the case.\n\nQueen Caroline, consort of King George IV, was tried by the House of Commons and acquitted. The process began as impeachment proceedings, but then became a different procedure as a bill of pains and penalties.\n\nThe procedure has, over time, become rarely used and some legal authorities (such as Halsbury's Laws of England) consider it to be probably obsolete. The principles of \"responsible government\" require that the Prime Minister and other executive officers answer to Parliament, rather than to the Sovereign. Thus the Commons can remove such an officer through a motion of no confidence without a long, drawn-out impeachment. However, it is argued by some that the remedy of impeachment remains as part of British constitutional law, and that legislation would be required to abolish it. Furthermore, impeachment as a means of punishment for wrongdoing, as distinct from being a means of removing a minister, remains a valid reason for accepting that it continues to be available, at least in theory.\n\nThe Select Committee on Parliamentary Privilege in 1967 recommended \"that the right to impeach, which has long been in disuse, be now formally abandoned\". Their recommendation not having been implemented in the meantime, the Select Committee on Privileges in 1977 declared it \"to be of continuing validity\" and again urged that it be adopted. Shortly before this report was issued, in April 1977 the Young Liberals' annual conference unanimously passed a motion calling on Liberal Party leader David Steel to move for the impeachment of Ronald King Murray QC, the Lord Advocate, over his handling of the Patrick Meehan miscarriage of justice affair. Steel did not move any such motion but Murray (now Lord Murray, a former Senator of the College of Justice of Scotland) agreed that the power still existed.\n\nThe Joint Committee on Parliamentary Privilege in 1999 noted the previous recommendations to formally abandon the power impeachment, and stated that \"The circumstances in which impeachment has taken place are now so remote from the present that the procedure may be considered obsolete\". Notwithstanding, on August 25, 2004, Plaid Cymru MP Adam Price announced his intention to move for the impeachment of Tony Blair for his role in involving Britain in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. He asked the Leader of the House of Commons Peter Hain whether he would confirm that the power to impeach was still available, reminding Hain that as President of the Young Liberals he had supported the attempted impeachment of Murray. Hain responded by quoting the 1999 Joint Committee's report, and the advice of the Clerk of the House of Commons that impeachment \"effectively died with the advent of full responsible Parliamentary government\".\n\nThe election court has some of the powers associated with impeachment cases in other countries, and can remove elected officials from office in the case of electoral fraud. Lutfur Rahman was the directly elected mayor of Tower Hamlets, in London until he was removed from office for breaching electoral rules.\n\nSimilar to the British system, Article One of the United States Constitution gives the House of Representatives the sole power of impeachment and the Senate the sole power to try impeachments of officers of the U.S. federal government. (Various state constitutions include similar measures, allowing the state legislature to impeach the governor or other officials of the state government.) In contrast to the British system, in the United States impeachment is only the first of two stages, and conviction during the second stage requires \"the concurrence of two thirds of the members present.\" Impeachment does not necessarily result in removal from office; it is only a legal statement of charges, parallel to an indictment in criminal law. An official who is impeached faces a second legislative vote (whether by the same body or another), which determines conviction, or failure to convict, on the charges embodied by the impeachment. Most constitutions require a supermajority to convict. Although the subject of the charge is criminal action, it does not constitute a criminal trial; the only question under consideration is the removal of the individual from office, and the possibility of a subsequent vote preventing the removed official from ever again holding political office in the jurisdiction where he or she was removed. Impeachment with respect to political office should not be confused with witness impeachment.\n\nThe Constitution defines impeachment at the federal level and limits impeachment to \"The President, Vice President, and all civil officers of the United States\" who may be impeached and removed only for \"treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors\". Several commentators have suggested that Congress alone may decide for itself what constitutes a \"high crime or misdemeanor\", especially since \"Nixon v. United States\" stated that the Supreme Court did not have the authority to determine whether the Senate properly \"tried\" a defendant.\nIn 1970, then-House Minority Leader Gerald R. Ford defined the criterion as he saw it: \"An impeachable offense is whatever a majority of the House of Representatives considers it to be at a given moment in history.\"\n\nThe central question regarding the Constitutional dispute about the impeachment of members of the legislature is whether members of Congress are officers of the United States. The Constitution grants the House the power to impeach \"The President, the Vice President, and all civil Officers of the United States.\" It has been suggested that members of Congress are not officers of the United States. Others, however, believe that members are civil officers and are subject to impeachment.\n\nThe House of Representatives impeached Senator William Blount in 1798, resulting in his expulsion. However, after initially hearing his impeachment, charges were dismissed for lack of jurisdiction. Left unsettled was the question whether members of Congress were civil officers of the United States. The House has not impeached a Member of Congress since Blount. As each House has the authority to expel its own members without involving the other chamber, expulsion has been the method used for removing Members of Congress.\n\nJefferson's Manual, which is integral to the Rules of the House of Representatives, states that impeachment is set in motion by charges made on the floor, charges proferred by a memorial, a member's resolution referred to a committee, a message from the president, or from facts developed and reported by an investigating committee of the House. It further states that a proposition to impeach is a question of high privilege in the House and at once supersedes business otherwise in order under the rules governing the order of business.\n\nAt the federal level, the impeachment process is a two-step procedure. The House of Representatives must first pass, by a simple majority of those present and voting, articles of impeachment, which constitute the formal allegation or allegations. Upon passage, the defendant has been \"impeached\". Next, the Senate tries the accused. In the case of the impeachment of a president, the Chief Justice of the United States presides over the proceedings. For the impeachment of any other official, the Constitution is silent on who shall preside, suggesting that this role falls to the Senate's usual presiding officer, the President of the Senate who is also the Vice President of the United States.\n\nIn theory at least, as President of the Senate, the Vice President of the United States could preside over their own impeachment, although legal theories suggest that allowing a defendant to be the judge in their own case would be a blatant conflict of interest. If the Vice President did not preside over an impeachment (of anyone besides the President), the duties would fall to the President pro tempore of the Senate.\n\nTo convict an accused, \"the concurrence of two thirds of the members present\" is required. Conviction removes the defendant from office. Following conviction, the Senate may vote to further punish the individual by barring him or her from holding future federal office, elected or appointed. Conviction by the Senate does not bar criminal prosecution. Even after an accused has left office, it is possible to disqualify the person from future office or from certain emoluments of his prior office (such as a pension). If there is no charge for which a two-thirds majority of the senators present vote \"guilty\", the defendant is acquitted and no punishment is imposed.\n\nCongress regards impeachment as a power to be used only in extreme cases; the House of Representatives has initiated impeachment proceedings only 64 times since 1789 (most recently the 2010 impeachment, then removal from office, of Judge Thomas Porteous of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana) with only the following 19 of these proceedings actually resulting in the House's passing Articles of Impeachment:\n\nThere have been unsuccessful attempts to initiate impeachment proceedings against Richard Nixon, George W. Bush, Barack Obama, and Donald Trump.\n\nThree state governors have been impeached and removed from office:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1570905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570905", "title": "It Hits the Fan", "text": "It Hits the Fan\n\n\"It Hits the Fan\" is the fifth season premiere of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and the 66th episode of the series overall. It first aired on Comedy Central in the United States on June 20, 2001. In the episode, the word \"shit\" is said uncensored on television on the crime show \"Cop Drama\". After this, everyone starts saying \"shit\" over and over, which eventually brings on a mysterious plague that unleashes the ancient Knights of Standards and Practices, and only Chef and the boys can save the world. \n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States. Throughout the episode, the profanity \"shit\" or \"shitty\" are exclaimed uncensored a total of \"162\" separate times; in syndicated or re-aired versions of this episode, a counter in the bottom left corner of the screen counts the number of times the word has been uttered. The written occurrences are not counted, but \"shit\" is written 38 times, which puts the \"shit\"s up to an even 200. On a statistical average, the word \"shit\" is uttered roughly once for every eight seconds of showtime; one such count includes the episode's theme song in the calculation.\n\nKyle has tickets to go to \"The Lion King on Stage\", but Cartman tells him that the HBC crime show \"Cop Drama\" is going to use the word \"shit\" uncensored. The broadcast of the show leads to widespread acceptance of the word, even in schools, causing people to use it constantly, in casual and often out of context during conversations. Furthermore, Ms. Choksondik is forced to clarify the acceptable context of the word — as a noun or adjective meaning bad, or as an exclamation of disappointment, the word is acceptable, but as a noun or adjective referring to feces, it is apparently unacceptable—thoroughly confusing the children (this is a reference to the real-life FCC standards of indecency). A strange illness that causes people to spew up their intestines and die suddenly rises in South Park, so action is taken.\n\nMeanwhile, Mr. Garrison teaches the kindergartners not only about the word \"shit,\" but also about the word \"fag,\" which he is allowed to say uncensored because he is homosexual. Later, in the local bar, he demonstrates this when he says the word uncensored, but any heterosexual who attempts to say the word is bleeped out. Finally, Jimbo also says the word, but is not bleeped.\n\nThe boys ask Chef to take them into the HBC Head Office to sort it out. Research proves that the word is actually a literal \"curse word,\" and its constant utterance has caused a resurgence of the Black Death. A special live event, \"Must Shit TV\", in which episodes of existing shows are taped live with almost every word of dialogue replaced with the word \"shit,\" goes ahead anyway until the Knights of Standards and Practices enter the studio and begin killing the actors (Drew and Mimi from \"The Drew Carey Show\"). In a fit of anger for the Knights trying to stop his TV special, the head of HBC repeats the word \"shit\" repeatedly, causing Geldan, a demonic dragon, to awaken. After the dragon murders several on the set, Kyle destroys it with an ancient magical rune stone belonging to a knight in the mystical Order of Standards and Practices. The moral of the story is not that saying \"shit\" in itself is wrong but saying it in excess leads to boredom with the word. Cartman tells everyone to watch their language, which Kyle and Stan agree on. The episode ends with Kenny accidentally saying \"shit\", spewing up his intestines and dying; Stan almost says \"Holy shit!\" once more but replaces it with \"poop\".\n\nExecutives at Comedy Central felt the profanity was justified by context and decided to allow the uncensored episode to be broadcast, which surprised even the show's developers. Despite broadcasting a record-setting amount of profanity, little controversy was stirred by the transmission. Co-creator Matt Stone explained the passive reception by citing changing cultural standards, \"No one cares anymore... The standards are almost gone. No one gives a shit or a bullshit.\" According to DVD commentary, they were only going to say it a few times, which Comedy Central would not allow. However, when Parker and Stone came up with the idea that they would \"say it like 200 times, they (Comedy Central) were fine with it.\"\n\nThis episode was selected as #8 on Comedy Central's 2006 marathon of \"10 South Parks That Changed the World\".\n\nIn 2005, the episode was listed at #93 as part of TV Land's \"Top 100 Most Unexpected Moments in TV History\".\n\n\"It Hits the Fan\", along with the fourteen other episodes from \"South Park\"'s fifth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode.\n\n\"It Hits the Fan\" was released on VHS in June 2002, along with the episodes \"Scott Tenorman Must Die\" and \"Cripple Fight\", on a video titled \"Insults to Injuries\". A DVD version of the compilation was released simultaneously, and also contained \"Proper Condom Use\", in addition to the episodes contained on the VHS release.\n\n"}
{"id": "7086225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7086225", "title": "Jeffrey Mark Deskovic", "text": "Jeffrey Mark Deskovic\n\nJeffrey Mark Deskovic (born October 27, 1973) was wrongly convicted in 1990 at the age of seventeen of raping, beating, and strangling Angela Correa, a 15-year-old high school classmate at Peekskill High School.\n\nThe crime occurred on November 15, 1989 in Peekskill, New York. Correa had gone out with a portable cassette player and a camera for her photography class. Her body was found two days later. Although Correa and Deskovic were not close friends and Deskovic was not popular in school, Correa had been one of the few students that had been nice to him, even helping him with algebra. Deskovic has explained that this was the reason he had cried so much during Correa's funeral. The police, however, thought Deskovic was showing suspicious behavior. After his release from prison Deskovic explained he fabricated a story based on crime scene information police officers had fed to him during the course of the interrogation.\n\nDeskovic also stated: \"\"By the police officer's own testimony, by the end of the interrogation I was on the floor crying uncontrollably in what they described as a fetal position\".\"\nOn December 7, 1990 a jury convicted Deskovic based on testimony from Peekskill police detective Daniel Stephens that Deskovic had confessed to the crime. Deskovic proclaimed his innocence on numerous occasions after his conviction, but was repeatedly denied a reopening of the case by then district attorney Jeanine Pirro. Since at least 2000 Deskovic also appealed to D.A. Pirro to run DNA testing to help prove his innocence. Pirro declined to run any DNA tests that could help release Deskovic from prison.\n\nIn 2006, the new district attorney, Janet DiFiore, authorized a DNA test which led to Deskovic's exoneration. The DNA from the crime scene was matched to that of Steven Cunningham, another prison inmate who was serving a life term for another murder and later confessed to the Correa murder. Deskovic's conviction was overturned and he was released.\n\nJeffrey Deskovic is now an advocate for reform of the criminal justice system and works to educate the public through his public speaking, published articles, and The Jeffrey Deskovic Foundation for Justice. He is a Mercy College alumnus.\n\nIn October 2014 Deskovic won a $41.6 million lawsuit for his sixteen years of wrongful imprisonment.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "25601190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25601190", "title": "Lillian Walker (politician)", "text": "Lillian Walker (politician)\n\nLillian Walker Walker, known as Lillian W. Walker (May 8, 1923 – December 22, 2016), was a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, who served two terms from 1964 to 1972, corresponding with the administration of Governor John J. McKeithen, her fellow Democrat.\n\nAfter two terms in the state House, Walker was narrowly unseated in the general election held on February 1, 1972, by the Republican Clark Gaudin, also of Baton Rouge. Gaudin polled 6,949 votes (51 percent) to Walker’s 6,645 (49 percent). Only the fourth Republican in the Louisiana legislature since Reconstruction, Gaudin had served a partial term from 1967 to 1968, having won a special election created by the resignation of Luther F. Cole, who became a judge of the 19th Judicial District Court.\n\nFor most of her legislative tenure, Walker was the only woman among the 105 House members. She was the first woman legislator in Louisiana who did not succeed a husband in the office. In 1969, she was joined by Helen L. Laperouse of New Iberia, who followed her late husband, Lionel Laperouse, Jr. And in 1971, Dorothy Mae Taylor of New Orleans became the first African American female representative. Early in her tenure, Walker persuaded Governor McKeithen to establish the Louisiana Commission on the Status of Women.\n\nOn November 2, 1982, more than a decade after her state House service ended, Walker was elected to the Louisiana Board of Elementary and Secondary Education. For that position, she defeated, 56-44 percent, the long-term Democratic Party chairman, Jesse Bankston, also of Baton Rouge.\n\nA native of Meridian in Lauderdale County in eastern Mississippi, Walker had the maiden name of \"Walker\" too. Her parents were Rudolph Blanche Walker and the former Maggie Elizabeth George. She was an alternate delegate from Louisiana to the 1960 Democratic National Convention, which met in Los Angeles to nominate the John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson ticket, which scored an easy victory in Louisiana over the Republican Richard M. Nixon.\n\nIn 1996, Walker was inducted into the Louisiana Center for Women and Government Hall of Fame at Nicholls State University in Thibodaux, along with the posthumous recognition of another Baton Rouge political figure, Betty Heitman, co-chairwoman from 1983 to 1987 of the Republican National Committee. In 2002, she was inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame based in the Chamber of Commerce office in Winnfield.\n\nUntil his death, Walker was married for fifty-six years to Edward E. Walker (1921–1998). She operated an insurance agency in Baton Rouge. Edward Walker had to quit his job to buy the agency, as women were not then allowed to own a business of this kind in Louisiana. The Walkers' daughter, Betti Helen, formerly Betti Herlitz (born June 2, 1952), is married to Malcolm E. \"Mac\" Buhler (born July 1935). When the Walkers' mentally handicapped son, Edward Theodore \"Eddie\" Walker (born 1945), was denied entry into the public schools, Mrs. Walker entered the political arena to work for the betterment of the mentally retarded and physically handicapped. Her work led to the creation of the Association for Mentally Retarded Citizens. She pushed for handicapped accessibility in the Louisiana State Capitol and other public buildings. Representative Walker sponsored legislation that created a Women's Division within the Louisiana Department of Labor to foster encouragement of women in the workforce. An advocate for Louisiana State University, she was made an honorary member of the LSU Alumni Association. For her work with special education, Walker received the first honorary state membership in Delta Kappa Gamma, an organization for women educators.\n\nWalker was a charter member in 1956 of the Broadmoor Presbyterian Church at 9340 Florida Boulevard in Baton Rouge; she was the captain of its first building fund in 1957. She died at her home in Baton Rouge at the age of ninety-three. She is entombed at Greenoaks Mausoleum in Baton Rouge.\n"}
{"id": "41926263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41926263", "title": "List of armistices involving Germany", "text": "List of armistices involving Germany\n\nThis is a list of armistices signed by the German Empire (1871–1918) or Nazi Germany (1933–1945). An armistice is a temporary agreement to cease hostilities. The period of an armistice may be used to negotiate a peace treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40435318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40435318", "title": "Mark Williams-Thomas", "text": "Mark Williams-Thomas\n\nMark Alan Williams-Thomas (born 9 January 1970) is an English investigative journalist and former police officer. He is best known for exposing Jimmy Savile as a paedophile in \"\", a television documentary he presented.\n\nWilliams-Thomas was a constable and family liaison officer with Surrey Police from 1989 to 2000.\n\nOn the 27th November 1995, school girl Ruth Wilson aged 16 years went missing from her home in from Betchworth, near Dorking Surrey, England. Williams-Thomas was the family liaison officer for Wilson's case, stated that extensive searches across Box Hill had yielded no evidence to suggest she was killed or committed suicide. He also stated that he was sure Wilson was not abducted by a stranger. Williams-Thomas also stated that \"From the experience I have had, I would suggest one of two things occurred. She either went up there to meet someone and has subsequently gone away, or she went there and died in some way.\"\n\nIn August 1997 Williams-Thomas was in charge of the child abuse investigation into school teacher Adrian Stark ,  the director of music at St John's School, Leatherhead, Surrey. Three days after his charges relating to indecent photographs of children Mr Stark's partly-clad body was found in the sea off Beachy Head, Sussex.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2002, Williams-Thomas was the marketing manager and a director of GumFighters, a \"national chewing gum removal specialist\". The company were hired by various councils to clean their streets.\n\nIn 2003 Mark Williams-Thomas was charged with blackmailing a funeral home director, after alleging that there were multiple bodies buried in unmarked graves. An article ran in a national Sunday paper describing the mass burials. He was subsequently acquitted.\n\nIn 2005, he set up WT Associates, an independent child protection consultancy firm.\n\nIn September 2013 MP Tim Loughton (East Worthing and Shoreham) (Con) made a statement to parliament in which he praised Mr Williams-Thomas for his 'modest but game changing ITV documentary that exposed Jimmy Savile. \n\nFrom 2003, due to his past in the police force, Williams-Thomas began script advising for various television crime dramas which included : BBC series \"Waking The Dead\" (2007-2011), BBC series \"Inspector Lynley Mysteries\" (2007), Ch5 series \"Murder Prevention\" (2004), ITV series \"Identity\" and BBC series \"The Silence\".\n\nOn 9 August 2012 ITV News broadcast an exclusive interview Williams-Thomas undertook with Stuart Hazell who was the last person to see missing 12-year-old schoolgirl Tia Sharp. Hazell went missing the day after this interview and was arrested later the same day on suspicion of Tia Sharps's murder. He was later charged and on 14 May 2013 was jailed after changing his plea. The judge ordered that he serve a minimum of 38 years.\n\nOn 3 October 2012, almost a year after Jimmy Savile's death, Williams-Thomas presented a documentary 'The Other Side of Jimmy Savile' on ITV. The expose of Jimmy Savile examined claims of child sexual abuse against Savile and led to extensive media coverage, including 41 dayson the front pages and the Metropolitan Police launching a criminal investigation into allegations of child sex, Operation Yewtree. \"The Other Side of Jimmy Savile\" and \"Exposure: Banaz: An Honour Killing\" won the 2012 Peabody Award which was broadcast on 3 October 2012.\n\nIn the \"Exposure\" documentary, several women claimed that they had been sexually abused by Savile as teenagers. In 2013, Williams-Thomas won two Royal Television Society awards and the London Press Awards Scoop of the Year for the film. The episode and \"Exposure: Banaz: An Honour Killing\" won a 2012 George Foster Peabody Award.\n\nWilliams-Thomas is a regular reporter on \"This Morning\", Channel 4 News, as well as long form current affairs documentaries for \"Exposure\".\n\nHis undercover work in Cambodia led to the arrest in 2013 of a person suspected of offering under-age girls for sex and the rescue of two girls, aged 13 and 14.\n\nIn 2014 Williams-Thomas covered the verdict of Oscar Pistorius and was the only British journalist to meet with Pistorius during his trial, writing an exclusive report for UK national newspaper \"Daily Mirror\". On 24 June 2016 ITV broadcast \"Oscar Pistorius: The Interview\" in which the former Paralympian spoke in a world exclusive to Williams-Thomas, in his first television interview about the night he shot and killed his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. It was broadcast in Pistorius's home country of South Africa immediately after the ITV programme finished.\n\nOn 11 November 2014, \"This Morning\" broadcast an exclusive interview with Jo Westwood, the ex-wife of jailed sex offender Max Clifford.\n\nIn 2015 Williams-Thomas investigated the unsolved murder of BBC presenter Jill Dando. Writing in the \"Daily Mirror\" he theorized that she was murdered by the London underworld for her work on \"Crimewatch\".\n\nWilliams-Thomas was the reporter for ITV's crime series \"The Investigator: A British Crime Story\", produced by Simon Cowell's Syco. The series re-examined a 30 year old previously 'closed' murder case, the murder of Carole Packman, whose body has never been found. The series was broadcast over four consecutive weeks on ITV, from 14 July 2016. Dorset Police subsequently confirmed that the case remained open and that they would be examining new evidence presented by Williams-Thomas. A second series of \"The Investigator\" is planned for 2017.\n\nSeries 2 of Williams-Thomas's crime series returned to ITV in April 2018 in a three-part series.\n\n\nHe was born in Billericay and was educated at Amesbury School and then Pierrepoint and then in 1989 joined Surrey Police.\n\nDuring his time with Surrey Police he was awarded numerous commendations and was a nationally qualified Detective and a specialist in major crime and child abuse. He left in 2000 with an excellent service record.\n\nWilliams-Thomas completed his MA in criminology from Birmingham City University in 2007.\n\nIn 2013 Williams-Thomas was awarded a Post Graduate Diploma (Honours) and Masters Degree (MA) in Criminology at Birmingham City University.\n\n"}
{"id": "17558967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17558967", "title": "Military Training Act 1939", "text": "Military Training Act 1939\n\nThe Military Training Act 1939 was an Act of Parliament passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom on 26 May 1939, in a period of international tension that led to World War II. The Act applied to males aged 20 and 21 years old who were to be called up for six months full-time military training, and then transferred to the Reserve. There was provision for conscientious objectors. It was the UK's first act of peacetime conscription and was intended to be temporary in nature, continuing for three years unless an Order in Council declared it was no longer necessary.\n\nOn 27 April 1939, Leslie Hore-Belisha, Secretary of State for War, persuaded the cabinet of Neville Chamberlain to introduce a limited form of conscription as a result of the deteriorating international situation and the rise of Nazi Germany.\n\nMen called up were to be known as 'militiamen' to distinguish them from the regular army. To emphasise this distinction, each man was issued with a suit in addition to a uniform. The intention was for the first intake to undergo six months of basic training before being discharged into an active reserve. They would then be recalled for short training periods and attend annual camps.\n\nThere was one registration under the Act, of the first cohort of liable males, on Saturday 3 June 1939, and call-up for these men followed. However, the Act was superseded on the outbreak of war in September 1939 by the National Service (Armed Forces) Act 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "1181213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181213", "title": "Ministry of Law and Justice (Pakistan)", "text": "Ministry of Law and Justice (Pakistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice (); abbreviated as MoJ) is a Cabinet-level ministry of Pakistan, responsible and for the enforcement of law and administration of justice.\n\nThe ministry's political executive figure is known as the Minister for Law, Justice and Human Rights, who must be an elected legislator and Parliamentarian. The Minister for Justice is associated with enforcing laws and administration of government judicial departments, and is a public face of the government in legal services required by the state. The ministry's administration is headed by the Law Secretary of Pakistan. The ministry is also represented by the Attorney General as the chief law enforcement officer of the federal government, representing it in civilian Supreme Court cases, and assisting the Minister for Justice and the government in legal cases. Both the Minister for Justice and Attorney General are nominated by the Prime Minister of Pakistan, and are members of the Cabinet. It is currently headed by Farogh Naseem as of 20th August 2018.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "846590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=846590", "title": "Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination", "text": "Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination\n\nThe Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination (MPRE) is a 120-minute, 60-question, multiple-choice examination designed to measure the knowledge and understanding of established standards related to a lawyer's professional conduct. It is developed by the National Conference of Bar Examiners and was first administered in 1980.\n\nIt is a prerequisite or corequisite to the bar examination for admission as an attorney at law in 48 of the 50 states of the United States, as well as the District of Columbia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Republic of Palau. Of the 56 jurisdictions within the United States, only Maryland, Puerto Rico, and Wisconsin do not use the MPRE examination. However, these jurisdictions still incorporate local ethics rules in their respective bar examinations. Connecticut and New Jersey waive the MPRE requirement for bar candidates who have earned a grade of \"C\" or better in a law school course in professional ethics.\n\nAs of the October 2012 administration, the test consists of 60 substantive questions. Only 50 are scored; the other 10 (randomly scattered throughout the exam) are used for experimental purposes. An additional 10 survey questions at the end of the exam are used to evaluate the conditions of the testing center. The raw score is converted to a \"scaled score\" based on the measured difficulty of the version of the test taken; the scaled score is used to determine passing scores. Scaled scores range between 50 and 150, with a median very close to 100.\n\nThe questions are based on the ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct and the ABA Model Code of Judicial Conduct, as well as controlling constitutional decisions and generally accepted principles established in leading federal and state cases and in procedural and evidentiary rules (courtesy American Bar Association website and National Conference of Bar Examiners MPRE website). State rules and laws which may or may not differ from the ABA rules are not tested. California uses the MPRE even though it is the only jurisdiction that has not adopted either of the two sets of professional responsibility rules proposed by the American Bar Association – and California rules differ from the ABA rules in many ways.\n\nThe MPRE differs from the remainder of the bar examination in two ways:\n\n\nThe passing score varies between jurisdictions. The lowest score accepted by any jurisdiction is 75 (several). The highest required by any state is 86 (Utah and California. \n\nAll states have a window either preceding or surrounding the bar exam outside of which MPRE scores are not recognized. \n\nPassing Scores (in 2005) by State: \n\n"}
{"id": "31177667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31177667", "title": "National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign", "text": "National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign\n\nThe National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign is a current domestic government propaganda campaign in the United States conducted by the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) within the Executive Office of the President of the United States with the goal to \"influence the attitudes of the public and the news media with respect to drug abuse\" and of \"reducing and preventing drug abuse among young people in the United States\".\n\nThe Media Campaign cooperates with the Partnership for a Drug-Free America and other government and non-government organizations.\n\nThe Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) was originally established by the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, which mandated a national anti-drug propaganda campaign for youth. These activities subsequently funded by the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act of 1998, formally creating the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign. The Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998 codified the propaganda campaign at .\n\nIn August 2001, the office told a Congressional committee that its National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign \"has been the most visible symbol of the federal government's commitment to drug prevention,\" and that the office was \"investing $7 million a year in performance measurement to determine the effectiveness\" of the campaign. The statement said \"We believe there is a strong body of evidence that indicates the campaign is working, as planned, to change drug attitudes, intentions and use.\"\n\nIn 2002, according to a multi-year study by the research firm hired by the office, teenagers exposed to federal anti-drug ads were no less likely to use drugs for having viewed them, and some young girls said they were even more likely to give drugs a try. Walters blamed poor ads that weren't resonating with teenagers. Walters promised in Senate testimony in 2002 that he would show results within a year or admit failure, and Congress agreed to extend the campaign through 2003 while cutting funding for the ads from $170 million in 2002 to $150 million in 2003. An entirely new advertising campaign was created.\n\nIn February 2005, a research company hired by the office and the National Institute on Drug Abuse reported that the government's ad campaign aimed at dissuading teens from using marijuana, a campaign that cost $1.4 billion between 1998 and 2006, did not work: \"greater exposure to the campaign was associated with weaker anti-drug norms and increases in the perceptions that others use marijuana.\" The research company was paid $42.7 million for the five-year study. After the February 2005 report was received, the office continued the ad campaign, spending $220 million on the anti-marijuana ads in fiscal years 2005 and 2006.\n\nPresident Bush's goal in this campaign was to reduce youth drug use by 10% over two years, and 25% over 5 years. The National Survey of Parent and Youth (NSPY) was instituted and funded by congress to monitor and assess the NYADMC's effects on youth. Even though the advertisements themselves were only as specific as to address use of marijuana, the NSPY measurements reported alcohol consumption, binge drinking, cigarette use, and use of marijuana/hashish. The assessment consisted of multiple rounds of strategic questioning between years 2000 and 2004 to determine youths exposure to the advertisements, and behavioral patterns in relation to marijuana use. \n94% of youth (ages 12.5-18) reported exposure to at least 1 anti-drug message per month. Those sampled didn't change marijuana usage over the time period measured. Youths claiming to have used marijuana within the past year in 2000 accounted for 17.1% in 2000, and dropped as little as .4% to 16.7% in 2004. However, there was a .4% increase in those claiming to have used marijuana within the past 30 days, rising from 7.8% to 8.2% between 2000 and 2004. There are also evidence of pro-marijuana lagged association effects. The rate of acceleration in use was quicker at among 14- to 18-year-olds than at earlier stages of teenage years.\n\nNot only do data indicate the ineffectiveness of much anti-drug advertising, results also point to behavioral reactions in the opposite direction, or a boomerang effect, where greater exposure to the campaign, resulted to increased use of marijuana. Of those unexposed to ads on a given month, 81% did not intend to use marijuana, That percentage decreased for youth exposed to 1-3 ads per month, to 79% and dropped to 78% among those exposed to more than 4 advertisements per month. Also measured, were attitudes such as 'anti-marijuana attitudes/beliefs' and 'anti-marijuana social norms'. Both of these index's portray declining percentages with increased exposure to ads. Anti-marijuana publicity, may have stimulated the notion that “‘everyone’s doing it,’” therefore heightenening the appeal of using marijuana, as a popular practice.\nThe ads had an unintended positive impact on perceptions towards marijuana use as they portrayed benefits within the context of using marijuana. This association was strengthened with repeat exposure. Images that lead to such impressions included focusing on the \"good-times\" people were having while on drugs, happily socializing. These impressions heightened the appeal of marijuana, thus making people more likely to initiate use, or increase use. Youth's beliefs and behaviors were also affected by those of their older siblings. Since older brothers and sisters were more interested in using marijuana after seeing the ads, the campaign had an indirect effect on younger siblings as well.\n\nThe NYADMC achieved some of its favorable effects with regard to reaching their message to the parents of youth. Parent's behavior and beliefs indicate greater likeliness to engage children in fun activities, talk about drugs, and responsiveness to the idea of monitoring their children's behavior.\n\nAccording to the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), the institution that administered the campaign, the campaign was overall successful. The ONDCP's independent studies indicate that \"youth exposed to Above the Influence are more likely to initiate drug use.\" exposure to the ads. Another similar media initiative, called \"Be Under Your Own Influence\" ran from 2005 to 2009, which results indicate that it was effective, to a lesser extent than the Above the Influence campaign, which was running concurrently. The plausible explanation for this is that they already had been influenced by the ATI, such that the Be Under Your Own Influence campaign was repeating a message that had already been established. Another study found the impact of the campaign was effective on both high-sensation-seeking and low-sensation-seeking youth.\nThe campaign launched a result-tracking initiative to comprise the Annual Analysis Report to Congress, as required by the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006.\nIn 2010, the Above the Influence (ATI) message expanded from focusing primarily on marijuana, to other drugs such as methamphetamine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32397446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32397446", "title": "New York University Journal of International Law and Politics", "text": "New York University Journal of International Law and Politics\n\nThe New York University Journal of International Law and Politics is a student-edited international law review at New York University School of Law. The journal publishes articles, essays, notes, and commentary that cover a wide range of topics in international and comparative law.\n\nThe \"New York University Journal of International Law and Politics\" was established in 1968 with the aid of a Ford Foundation grant. It features articles on international legal topics, as well as notes, case comments, and book annotations written by journal members.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1986, the Managing Editor of the Journal was Benjamin B. Wagner, current United States Attorney for the Eastern District of California.\n\nThe journal publishes four issues per year on diverse topics in both public and private international law. Recent issues have included articles on international human rights law, privatization in Eastern Europe and Latin America, international aspects of intellectual property law, the future of nationalism, and asset securitization in Japan. Recent contributors include: Sandra Day O'Connor, Mohammed Bedjaoui, Stephen M. Schwebel, Jagdish Bhagwati, Shimon Peres, Kofi Annan, and three Justices from the Constitutional Court of South Africa: Arthur Chaskalson, Richard Goldstone, and Albie Sachs.\n\nThe journal is the creator and publisher of the \"Guide to Foreign and International Citation\". This international citation manual provides information on the appropriate citation of foreign, multinational, and international sources, including the publications of organizations such as the United Nations and the World Trade Organization.\n\nSince 1982, the \"New York University Journal of International Law and Politics\" hosts an annual symposium on an important topic of international law. Recent topics have included climate change, financing development, governance, nuclear power, and other issues.\n"}
{"id": "3626819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3626819", "title": "Partible inheritance", "text": "Partible inheritance\n\nPartible inheritance is a system of inheritance in which property is apportioned among heirs. It contrasts in particular with primogeniture (common in feudal society), which requires that the whole or most of the inheritance passes to the eldest son, and with agnatic seniority where the succession passes to next senior male.\n\nPartible inheritance systems are therefore common ones to be found, in both Common Law and Napoleonic Code-based systems; in the latter case, there may be further requirement implying division according to a scheme, such as equal shares for legitimate children.\n\nPartible inheritance has been common in ancient Celtic and Germanic tribal societies; an example of this pattern is so-called Salic patrimony.\nHistorically speaking, non-partible inheritance has been associated with monarchies, and the wish that landed estates be kept together as units. In the Middle Ages, the partible inheritance systems of (for example) the Carolingian Empire and Kievan Rus had the effect of dividing \"kingdoms\" into \"princely\" states and are often thought responsible for their decline of power.\n\nPartible inheritance was the generally accepted form of inheritance adopted by New Englanders in the 18th century. The southern colonies adopted a system of male primogeniture in cases of intestacy, while the northern colonies adopted a system of partible inheritance in cases of intestacy, with the eldest son receiving a double portion of the estate. In practice, a strong bequest motive in the colonies adopting multigeniture reduced the variability in demographic experiences across colonies with different inheritance systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "284741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284741", "title": "Pemmican Proclamation", "text": "Pemmican Proclamation\n\nIn January 1814 Governor Miles MacDonell, appointed by Thomas Douglas, 5th Earl of Selkirk issued to the inhabitants of the Red River area a proclamation which became known as the Pemmican Proclamation. The proclamation was issued in attempt to stop the Métis people from exporting pemmican out of the Red River district. Cuthbert Grant, leader of the Métis, disregarded MacDonell's proclamation and continued the exportation of pemmican to the North West Company. The proclamation overall, became one of many areas of conflict between the Métis and the Red River settlers. Thomas Douglas, 5th Earl of Selkirk had sought interest in the Red River District, with the help of the Hudson's Bay Company as early as 1807. However, it was not until 1810 that the Hudson's Bay Company asked Lord Selkirk for his plans on settling in the interior of Canada.\n\nThe Red River Colony or the Selkirk Settlement included portions of present-day southern Manitoba, northern Minnesota and eastern North Dakota, in addition to small parts of eastern Saskatchewan, northwestern Ontario and northeastern South Dakota.\nThe Proclamation defined the borders of the lands ceded to Lord Selkirk by the Hudson's Bay Company over which Miles MacDonell had been appointed Governor.\n\nThe proclamation next outlined the reasons and the means by which the governor would control the flow of food, mostly pemmican from the area.\n\nThe Proclamation was submitted as evidence during the Pemmican War Trials held in Montreal in 1818. and published in the: Report of trials in the courts of Canada, relative to the destruction of the Earl of Selkirk's settlement on the Red River With observations (p. 61-62) by Amos Andrew in 1820.\n\n“In order to expand their food supply, fur companies traded large quantities of dried bison meat and fat in fall and early winter to produce at their posts blocks of pemmican (pronounced “pimigan” in the Cree), a word meaning “he makes grease.” An energy-rich, cheap food source, pemmican consisted of pounded dried meat, soft fat (unsaturated fats derived from bone marrow) and hard fat (saturated fats taken from body fat and converted into tallow), bosses (fatty hump meat), and/or dépouille (strips of fat that lay along the spine of the animal). Although Indians produced some pemmican and traded it directly to European posts, more commonly, British commerce came to depend on pemmican mass-produced by Europeans at their own posts.”\n\nPemmican became the main source of food throughout the Bison trade nearing the end of the eighteenth century. The Hudson’s Bay Company relied on the food to provide a source of energy for their fur-traders who had relocated to areas that had a scarce food supply but plenty of fur. By the mid-1790s the first systems of small wintering posts had become massive food depots, with Montreal companies organizing depots in the Red River Valley. The Hudson’s Bay Company grew concerned during the turn of the century because their rival, the North West Company, was providing trappers in the north with enough Pemmican to allow them to specialize their hunting patterns to cater to the English trading posts rather than the HBC.\n\n“ The impact of the European factory system on traditional pemmican production has yet to be fully studied, especially at carryover places and between watersheds where large communities of indigenous people gathered. Indeed, it became so commonplace for woodland hunters to visit and even inhabit trade routes and major transshipment points where they might gain access to the plains-trade pemmican stockpiled there that the HBC eventually outlawed its crews from making such exchanges and sternly rebuked traders who made it available around their posts.”\n\nThe early nineteenth century saw competition increase between food trading companies in and around the Red River settlement. This led to a steep increase in Pemmican prices, which would become a problem in 1811 when winter conditions became extremely harsh. By 1813, companies instructed their traders to offer Native hunters “extraordinary payment” for hunting beyond their specific provisions.\n\n“Competition over the trade, poor winters, and hunters burning the plains escalated prices and, in the end, contributed to one of Rupert’s Land’s more chaotic turns in 1814 with the advent of the “Pemmican Wars”—where the Selkirk settlers, under the Pemmican Proclamation, attempted to regulate and control pemmican production by rival companies.21 This very issue sparked the bloody Battle of Seven Oaks in 1816: Métis clashed with settlers who had earlier seized and now competed for the high-priced food supplies of the NWC coming from the Assiniboine River.”\n\nA major contributor to the controversy surrounding the Red River Settlement was the purchasing of Hudson’s Bay Company shares by Thomas Douglas, the 5th Lord of Selkirk. Douglas, in an attempt to provide new opportunities for Scottish settlers, purchased enough shares from the HBC to be granted a large land settlement in the Red River. Conflict arose from the situation because not only was Douglas granted a massive chunk of the Red River Settlement but he did not want trade to profit the rival North West Company, which led to the Lord of Selkirk cutting off the Metis inhabiting  the Red River colony and interfering with NWC trade routes. The harsh living conditions and scarcity of food would eventually lead to Douglas’ reliance on the Metis and the introduction of the Pemmican Proclamation, considering the ties he had severed with those he now depended on in the area.\n\nThe Proclamation was submitted as evidence during the Pemmican War Trials held in Montreal in 1818. and published in the: Report of trials in the courts of Canada, relative to the destruction of the Earl of Selkirk's settlement on the Red River With observations (p. 61-62) by Amos Andrew in 1820.\n\nFor the settlers living near the Red River on the edge of the prairie, the Pemmican Trade was an important source of trade for the Red River Valley, almost comparable to what the beaver-pelt trade did for the Natives farther north. This trade was a major factor in the emergence of a distinct Métis society.  Pemmican was made of dried buffalo meat pounded into a powder and mixed with melted buffalo fat in leather bags. Packs of pemmican would be shipped north and stored at the major fur posts. Ultimately, as the Pemmican trade began to establish its position within the Red River and other parts of the prairies, the Hudson’s Bay Company (HBC) and North West Company (NWC).\n\nTo procure pemmican in sufficient quantities, the HBC and NWC traded for it at several outposts in the Red River District and shipped it to their Bas de la Rivière depot on Lake Winnipeg where it was distributed to brigades of north canoes passing between Fort William and Athabasca or transported to Fort William where it was issued to brigades going to the company’s eastern and southern districts. The majority of the NWC’s pemmican was purchased from the local Métis and to a lesser degree from the local First Nations people and freemen.The pemmican, which forms the staple article of produce from the summer hunt, is a species of food peculiar to Rupert's Land. It is composed of buffalo meat, dried and pounded fine, and mixed with an amount of tallow or buffalo fat equal to itself in bulk.The tallow having been boiled, is poured hot from the caldron into an oblongbag, manufactured from the buffalo hide, into which the pounded meat has previously been placed. The contents are then stirred together until they havebeen thoroughly well mixed. When full, the bag is sewed up and laid in store.Each bag when full weighs one hundred pounds. It is calculated that, on anaverage, the carcass of each buffalo will yield enough pemmican to fill one bag\n\nUltimately, the pemmican trade was a major factor for the expanding provisions that were being streamlined and developed within the Red River Area, as well as Winnipeg and other parts of the Prairies located between Manitoba and Saskatchewan. The two Major trading companies which were the Hudson’s Bay Company and North-West Company began establishing various territories and boundaries where they could exercise the Pemmican trade. Both the HBC and the NWC needed to establish their trade routes in the area to secure the economic benefits of Pemmican. Therefore, the need to establish a trade route led to conflict between the Hudson’s Bay Company and the North West Company that erupted in 1812.\n\n\"In 1812, the Hudson’s Bay Company established the Selkirk agricultural colony on the banks of the Red River. This posed a strategic threat to the North West Company since the colony lay astride its provision supply line in that quarter. The seriousness of the danger was manifest in the winter of 1814. The colony was seriously short of provisions.\"\n\nThe need for the North West Company and Hudson’s Bay Company to establish a suitable route of transportation for the Pemmican trade would be vital in securing economic prosperity. The Red River was beginning to see an increase in settlements and trading posts erecting in the area, as the Red River served as a vital mode of transportation. The NWC had previously built a strong relationship with the Metis, and ultimately the NWC positioned themselves as defenders of the Natives and Métis, and thus became opponents of the HBC colonization scheme that would illegally dispossess the native peoples. Furthermore, it was vital for these companies to secure an alliance when trading Pemmican because the native expertise in buffalo hunting would serve as the most productive way obtaining Pemmican ingredients. Also, since there had been a food shortage in these areas since 1776, Pemmican became a prominent source of food in the Red River settlements. Pemmican would be an important food source during the winter months and would serve as an offset or back-up to inconsistent crop-growth within settlements. With the food shortage however came an increase in the price and trade of Pemmican.\n\n\"In such circumstances, Indian suppliers drove up prices on provisions offered to Europeans. While volumes increased to meet European demands by the turn of the century, so did the traded value, or price, of these commodities, especially in areas hard hit by changing game conditions. In 1801 intense local competition between traders raised prices overall. Lower Red River outfits, by then supplying massive amounts of food to the trading companies, priced depot pemmican at an astronomical shilling per pound—in better circumstances, Europeans could get it for a quarter or less than that\".\n\nThe increased price of Pemmican, combined with the food shortage and tensions between the settlement of HBC and NWC territories ultimately developed into conflict. Tensions erupted in the end, which contributed to one of Rupert’s Land more chaotic turns in 1814 with “The Pemmican Proclamation,” which attempted to regulate and control pemmican production by rival companies. This very issue sparked the bloody Battle of Seven Oaks in 1816, which saw the Métis clash with settlers who had earlier seized and now competed for the high-priced food supplies of the NWC coming from the Assiniboine River.\n\nThe Pemmican Proclamation was a key factor in the onslaught of the Pemmican War that took place from 1812-1821. During the Pemmican War, the Métis suffered immensely and had a tough time legally hunting for food. Carolyn Podruchny, author of the book \"Contours of People: Metis Family, Mobility and History\" notes the Metis struggled to during the Pemmican War to survive stating “ the Winter of 1814-15 was a difficult one as the Metis buffalo hunters were increasingly hostile to the colony”.</sub> <sub>The Pemmican Proclamation caused many issues for the Metis and aboriginal population of Canada for many years after its legislation was passed.\n\nDuring the late 1790s and heading into the turn of the century, pemmican became a leading source of food throughout the fur trading monopolies. This transition to pemmican began because it was a source of energy that could be stored and preserved for long periods of time, which allowed fur traders to venture beyond designated areas to find game because of this new unspoiled food. From first establishing small food systems to organizing massive food depots, companies began to realize that they could heavily profit from an entirely European run production of pemmican. A major step towards this transition to a European system was the involvement of Thomas Douglas, 5th Lord of Selkirk. Douglas had a strong desire to relocate poor Scottish immigrants to profitable land settlements. The Red River and the pemmican industry would have been perfect for the Lord of Selkirk and his colonizers because Douglas had used his fortune to purchase enough HBC shares to be granted land in the Red River Settlement. This meant the Lord of Selkirk’s men (he promised 200 annually to the HBC) could take over the pemmican production, stop the Metis from supplying the NWC, and interrupt fur trades routes of rival company trappers. He did not plan for the extreme weather conditions and scarcity of food because of said conditions that would come in the years of 1811-1813. This would lead to the settlers’ dependence on the Metis for survival and the Pemmican Proclamation that would ban the export of pemmican from the Red River Settlement to avoid starvation. This would be the beginnings of the Pemmican War that would ensue shortly after.\n\n"}
{"id": "3009085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3009085", "title": "Risk-utility test", "text": "Risk-utility test\n\nIn legal disputes regarding product liability, a risk-utility test is used to determine whether a product's design or warning is defective, thereby making the manufacturer liable for injuries caused by its product.\n\nThe manufacturer is held liable under the risk-utility test if the probability of injury times the gravity of injury under the current product design is more than the cost of an alternative reasonable design plus the diminished utility resulting from modifying the design. More simply, the court considers if the economic costs (determined from likely lawsuits) are higher than the cost of changing the product design (ex: installing a plastic guard) plus the loss of use of the product (ex: the new guard makes it harder to use the product). Generally, the simplest way to think of the risk-utility test is the Hand Formula applied to products.\n\nThe Third Restatement of the Law, Torts: Products Liability §2(b) favors the risk-utility test over the Second Restatement of the Law, Torts §402(a), which favored the Consumer expectations test. §2(b) states, in part, \"A product is defective when, at the time of sale or distribution...is defective in design. A product is defective in design when the foreseeable risks of harm posed by the product could have been reduced or avoided by the adoption of a reasonable alternative design by the seller or other distributor, or a predecessor in the commercial chain of distribution, and the omission of the alternative design renders the product not reasonably safe.\"\n"}
{"id": "57358669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57358669", "title": "Runaway and Homeless Youth Act", "text": "Runaway and Homeless Youth Act\n\nThe Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (RHYA, originally the Runaway Youth Act) is a US law originally passed in 1974 as Title III of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act. The bill sets the federal definition of homeless youth, and forms the basis for the Runaway and Homeless Youth Program, administered by the Family and Youth Services Bureau. It has been reauthorized multiple times, and is due for re-authorization as of March 2018. \n\nThe RYHA forms the basis of the federal government's definition of homeless youth, as a person who is:\n\nnot more than 21 years of age...for whom it is not possible to live in a safe environment with a relative and who have no other safe alternative living arrangement.\n\nIt provides federal funding in the amount of $115 million per year as of 2014, for emergency shelters and other services throughout the country targeted at young adults and adolescents who have run away or are homeless. This funding forms the basis of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Program administered by the Family and Youth Services Bureau of the Department of Health and Human Services. The program provides services in three areas: the Basic Centre Programme, the Transitional Living Programme, and the Street Outreach Programme.\n\nThe RYHA was originally passed as the Runaway Youth Act. Provisions for \"otherwise homeless youth\" were later added in 1977, and the name was officially changed in 1980. The bill was reauthorized in 2008, a version which increased funding for basic center programs to an annual $150 million, and street outreach programs at $30 million; required the Department of Health and Human Services to develop national estimates of the prevalence of homelessness among the youth population; increased the permitted length individuals may stay in shelters or temporary housing to 21 from 14 days; required performance standards for all programs; and required that programs utilize a positive youth development perspective.\n\nAdditional funding was allocated in 2016, and on March 20, 2018 a bill was introduced by Kentucky Representative John Yarmuth for re-authorization. the bill has been amended a total of nine times.\n"}
{"id": "24402736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24402736", "title": "Santiago Mexquititlán raid", "text": "Santiago Mexquititlán raid\n\nIn March 2006, six plainclothes agents of Mexico's Federal Investigations Agency (AFI) raided a market in Santiago Mexquititlán, Querétaro, in search of unauthorized copies of copyrighted works. The agents later alleged that they were held hostage by vendors during the raid. Three women were convicted of the alleged kidnapping. In September 2009, Jacinta Francisco Marcial and in April 2010 Alberta Alcántara and Teresa González, were released from prison after the charges against them were dropped.\n\nDuring the raid, the six AFI agents were cornered by a number of unarmed vendors in protest. The agents later claimed that the vendors demanded a ransom to let them go. Local witnesses to the incident denied any ransom demand was made.\n\nJacinta Francisco Marcial, an indigenous Otomí woman, sold ice cream in Santiago Mexquititlán's predominantly indigenous tianguis.\n\nThe six AFI agents who conducted the raid implicated Francisco Marcial after they were shown a newspaper photograph depicting her walking near a group of protesting vendors. In August 2006, four months after the raid, she was arrested for the alleged kidnapping. She was later convicted and sentenced to twenty-one years' imprisonment.\n\nAmnesty International denounced Francisco Marcial's imprisonment as resulting from a wrongful prosecution. The group declared her a prisoner of conscience, claiming there was no credible evidence against her, and that she had been prosecuted because of her gender, poverty, race, and inability to speak or understand the Spanish language.\n\nIn 2009, prosecutors dropped the case against Francisco Marcial. In September 2009, she was released. In April 2010 the Mexican Supreme Court unanimously agreed to reverse the convictions of the two other women convicted of the same charges, Alberta Alcántara and Teresa González, and they were released from prison.\n"}
{"id": "18663033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18663033", "title": "Side letter", "text": "Side letter\n\nA side letter or side agreement is a collective bargaining agreement that is not part of the underlying or primary collective bargaining agreement (CBA) which the parties to the contract use to reach agreement on issues the CBA does not cover, to clarify issues in the CBA, or to modify the CBA (permanently or temporarily). One may distinguish side letters from \"side settlements\" or \"settlement agreements\", which settle a dispute arising from the underlying CBA. In rare cases, bargaining parties may use a side letter to adjust the focus of the contract if the parties are not yet ready or willing to adapt the contract formally.\n\nUnder the law of contracts, a side letter has the same force as the underlying contract. However, the courts may invalidate side letters in conflict with the main collective bargaining agreement. The terms of the CBA govern interpretation of side letters. In the United States, several appellate courts have held that in disputes where side letters do not contain conflict resolution procedures, the parties must use the underlying collective bargaining agreement's dispute resolution mechanism (in these cases, arbitration) to resolve the dispute.\n\nThe range of issues side letters covers is wide. In some cases, side letters have driven national labour law policy. For example, in the United States, a side letter guaranteeing employer neutrality during union elections in newly acquired plants, subsidiaries, or divisions led to a federal lawsuit over the legality of the agreement in 2002 and a major decision by the National Labor Relations Board revising federal labour policy in 2007.\n\nIn Australia, side letters are becoming increasingly common due to the changes in federal labour law the WorkChoices Act created. WorkChoices limits the collective bargaining agreements that parties can register for eligibility for workplace tribunals enforcement, and also requires CBAs be strictly limited to work-related issues. The inclusion of even minor non-workplace-related clauses (such as dues check-off) can render a CBA unenforceable. In response, many unions and employers are using side letters to reach agreement on non-workplace-related matters, and not registering these side-letters with the federal government—relying on common law to enforce the side letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "6772771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6772771", "title": "Slave Compensation Act 1837", "text": "Slave Compensation Act 1837\n\nThe Slave Compensation Act 1837 (1 & 2 Vict. c. 3) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom, signed into law on 23 December 1837.\n\nAfter decades of campaigning, the Slavery Abolition Act had been passed in 1833. The plantation owners in the Caribbean, represented by the London Society of West India Planters and Merchants (now the West India Committee), had opposed abolition. This Act paid substantial money to the former slave owners, but nothing to the newly liberated people.\n\nThe Act empowered the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, under the direction of the Treasury, to either pay the compensation that was still owing to slave owners out of the West India Compensation Account, or to transfer a proportionate amount of 3½% government annuities. The various acts of William IV relating to slave compensation were to be considered, as far as applicable, to apply to this act.\n\nSlave owners were paid approximately £20 million in compensation in over 40,000 awards for enslaved people freed in the colonies of the Caribbean, Mauritius and the Cape of Good Hope according to a government census that named all owners as of 1 August 1834.\n\nUniversity College London has set up a project \"Legacies of British Slave-ownership\" which aims to list the individuals who received compensation. They estimate that somewhere between 10-20% of Britain's wealthy can be identified as having had significant links to slavery.\n\n"}
{"id": "612184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612184", "title": "Stamp duty", "text": "Stamp duty\n\nStamp duty is a tax that is levied on documents. Historically, this included the majority of legal documents such as cheques, receipts, military commissions, marriage licences and land transactions. A physical stamp (a revenue stamp) had to be attached to or impressed upon the document to denote that stamp duty had been paid before the document was legally effective. More modern versions of the tax no longer require an actual stamp.\n\nThe duty is thought to have originated in Venice in 1604, being introduced (or re-invented) in Spain in the 1610s, the Netherlands in the 1620s, France in 1651, Denmark in 1657, Prussia in 1682 and England in 1694.\n\nThe Australian Federal Government does not levy stamp duty. However, stamp duties are levied by the Australian states on various instruments (written documents) and transactions. Stamp duty laws can differ significantly between all 8 jurisdictions. The rates of stamp duty also differ between the jurisdictions (typically up to 5.5%) as do the nature of instruments and transactions subject to duty. Some jurisdictions no longer require a physical document to attract what is now often referred to as \"transaction duty\".\n\nMajor forms of duty include transfer duty on the sale of land (both freehold and leasehold), buildings, fixtures, plant and equipment, intangible business assets (such as goodwill and intellectual property) debts and other types of dutiable property. Another key type of duty is Landholder duty, which is imposed on the acquisition of shares in a company or units in a trust that holds land above a certain value threshold.\n\nA temporary stamp duty was introduced in 1657 to finance the war with Sweden. It was made permanent in 1660 and remains on the statute book although it has been substantially altered. Most stamp duties were abolished from 1 January 2000 and the present act only provides for stamp duties on insurance policies. Stamp duties on land registration were renamed and transferred to a separate statute but remain essentially the same, i.e. 0.6% on deeds and 1.5% loans secured against real estate.\n\nStamp duty is approached by the European Commission regarding raising of capital (capital duty). Council Directive 69/335/EEC of 17 July 1969 concerning indirect taxes on the raising of capital stated that transactions subject to capital duty shall only be taxable in the Member State in whose territory the effective centre of management of a capital company is situated at the time when such transactions take place. When the effective centre of management of a capital company is situated in a third country and its registered office is situated in a Member State, transactions subject to capital duty shall be taxable in the Member State where the registered office is situated. When the registered office and the effective centre of management of a capital company are situated in a third country, the supplying of fixed or working capital to a branch situated in a Member State may be taxed in the Member State in whose territory the branch is situated.\n\nThe spirit of the Council Directive 2008/7/EC of 12 February 2008 concerning indirect taxes on the raising of capital is that capital duty interferes with the free movement of capital. The Proposal for a Council Directive of 28 September 2011 on a common system of financial transaction tax will amend this Directive 2008/7/EC, but it is not published in the Official Journal. This Directive 2008/7/EC acknowledges that the best solution would be to abolish the duty, but allows those Member States that charged the duty as at 1 January 2006 may continue to do so under strict conditions. With this stamp duty Directive, Member States may not levy indirect tax on the raising of capital to capital companies in:\n\n\nIndirect taxes are also entirely prohibited on the issue of certain securities and debentures.\n\nAccording to Schedule 1 of Hong Kong Stamp Duty Ordinance Cap.117 (SDO), Stamp duty applies to some legal binding documents as classified into 4 heads:\n\nOne example is shares of companies which are either incorporated in Hong Kong or listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Other than the said shares, HK Stock is defined as shares and marketable securities, units in unit trusts, and rights to subscribe for or to be allotted stock. Stamp duty on a conveyance on sale of land is charged at progressive rates ranging from 1.5% to 8.5% of the amount of consideration. The maximum rate of 8.5% applies where the consideration exceeds HK$21,739,130.\n\nIn addition, in response to the overheated property market, the Government has proposed in 2010 and 2012 two further types of stamp duties in respect of conveyances on sale of land:\n\nThe Special Stamp Duty was enacted by the Legislative Council on 29 June 2011 and would take effect from 20 November 2010. An enhanced rate of the Special Stamp Duty and the Buyer's Stamp Duty was enacted by the Legislative Council on 27 February 2014 but would take effect retrospectively from 27 October 2012.\n\nThe government regularly updates its Stamp Duty laws and in addition to the above, several other amendments have now been published which are also aimed at cooling the property market. Third party calculators make it easier to understand the complex set of rules, making it easier to under the latest cost of buying or selling.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland stamp duties are levied on various items including (but not limited to) credit cards, debit cards, ATM cards, cheques, property transfers, and certain court documents. Stamp duty was formerly a graduated progressive tax with more expensive the house bought the greater the stamp duty rate. The top rate slowly increased from 0.5% in 1882 to 3% in 1947, 5% in 1973, 6% in 1975, reaching its peak at 9% in 1997. The budget of 2008 inaugurated a series of rate reductions. After 2011 the stamp duty tax is set at 1% for residential properties up to €1 million and 2% on the remaining amount. Non-residential real property, building, insurance policies, the intangible business property goodwill are taxed at 2%. A lease for property of any type is taxed according to the lease duration, 1% of the average annual rent, or the market rate whichever is greater, if 35 years or less, 6% up to 100 years, and 12% for a lease of more than 100 years duration. Counterparts (duplicate copies) of documents are taxed the lesser of €12.50 or the duty on the original document. The value of property for stamp duty excludes VAT. Gifts are taxed at market value. Several exemptions including those for gifts between close relatives and first time home buyers expired in 2010. The transfer of stocks and marketable securities is taxed at 1% if over €1,000 or if a gift. Stock warrants in bearer form are taxed at 3% of the value of the shares, and the issue of (new) bearer warrants was prohibited effective 1 June 2015.\n\nFrom 1998, stamp duty in Singapore only applies to documents relating to immovable property, stocks and shares. Purchases of Singapore property or shares traded on the Singapore Exchange, are subject to stamp duty. The Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore (IRAS) mandates stamp duty payment within 14 days from signing of the document if done in Singapore and 30 days if the document is signed overseas. Failure in payment within the fixed time entails heavy penalty.\nOo\nApplicable rates and more information can be obtained from Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore. Legislation covering Singapore Stamp Duties are found in the Stamp Duties Act.\n\nSwedish law applies a stamp duty on property deeds, at 1.5% of the purchase value. In addition, a stamp duty of 2.0% is levied on new mortgage securities (\"pantbrev\") for properties.\n\n\"Stamp Duty Reserve Tax\" (SDRT) was introduced on agreements to transfer certain shares and other securities in 1986, albeit with a relief for intermediaries such as market makers and large banks that are members of a qualifying exchange. \"Stamp Duty Land Tax\" (SDLT), a new transfer tax derived from stamp duty, was introduced for land and property transactions from 1 December 2003. SDLT is not a stamp duty, but a form of self-assessed transfer tax charged on \"land transactions\".\n\nOn 24 March 2010, Chancellor Alistair Darling introduced two significant changes to UK Stamp Duty Land Tax. For first-time buyers purchasing a property under £250,000, Stamp Duty Land Tax was abolished for the next two years. This measure was offset by a rise from 4% to 5% in Stamp Duty Land Tax on residential properties costing more than £1 million.\n\nFurther reforms were announced in December 2014, so that rates are now paid only on the part of the property price within each tax band.\n\nIn the 2015 Autumn Statement the Chancellor announced that buyers of second homes (whether Buy to let or holiday homes) would pay an additional 3% with effect from April 2016.\n\nThe Budget 2017 abolished Stamp Duty for first-time home buyers in England and Wales purchasing homes up to £300,000, saving first-time buyers up to £5,000. Additionally first-time buyers spending up to £500,000 will only pay Stamp Duty @ 5% on the amount in excess of £300,000. Those spending over £500,000 will pay full Stamp Duty.\n\nGovernment defines first-time buyers as '. . . an individual or individuals who have never owned an interest in a residential property in the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the world and who intends to occupy the property as their main residence.'\n\nAlthough the federal government formerly imposed various documentary stamp taxes on deeds, notes, insurance premiums and other transactional documents, in modern times such taxes are only imposed by states. Typically when real estate is transferred or sold, a real estate transfer tax will be collected at the time of registration of the deed in the public records. In addition, many states impose a tax on mortgages or other instruments securing loans against real property. This tax, known variously as a \"mortgage tax\", \"intangibles tax\", or \"documentary stamp tax\", is also usually collected at the time of registration of the mortgage or deed of trust with the recording authority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13120489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13120489", "title": "Status conference", "text": "Status conference\n\nA status conference is a court-ordered meeting with a judge (or under some circumstances an authorized counsel) where they decide the date of the trial or to get updated information on a defendant for ongoing conditions, set forth previously by the courts such as house arrest or home monitoring.\n\nIf a party does not attend the status conference, that party's requests for scheduling changes will be ignored. If the plaintiff and/or a representative of plaintiff does not attend the status conference, the action may be dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "39831038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39831038", "title": "Stop Cyberbullying Day", "text": "Stop Cyberbullying Day\n\nStop Cyberbullying Day is an international awareness day launched by The Cybersmile Foundation on 17 June 2012, taking place on the third Friday of June annually. The day encourages people from around the world to show their commitment toward a truly inclusive and diverse online environment for all, without fear of personal threats, harassment or abuse. \n\nThe day brings together public figures, non-profit organizations, brands, governments and educational institutions who speak out against cyberbullying and abuse of any kind to defend the human right to freedom of speech and mutual respect. People show their support for the day by using the \"#STOPCYBERBULLYINGDAY\" hashtag on social media along with their message.\n\nThe next Stop Cyberbullying Day will be on June 21, 2019.\n\nBrands such as Twitter , MTV \n, Telenor, ESL (eSports) and WWE have supported Stop Cyberbullying Day through public announcements, social media posts and celebrity engagements. \n\nTelenor Group announced it would educate 4 million children in Asia by 2020 on Stop Cyberbullying Day through the launch of their \"Be A Cyberhero\" initiative. \n\nMcAfee pledged their support for Stop Cyberbullying Day and asked its customers to raise their voice and unite against cyberbullying. \n\nThe WWE released a series of videos to coincide with The Cybersmile Foundation's Stop Cyberbullying Day Public Service Announcement in 2017 with wrestlers such as The Big Show and Bayley encouraging internet users to be kind to one another. \n\nTelus announced on Stop Cyberbullying Day that they would donate $1 for every pledge made as part of a nationwide initiative to support #EndBullying programs for youth in Canada with an aim to secure 1 million pledges. \n\nSuperStroke launched a fundraiser in support of The Cybersmile Foundation with golfer Paige Spiranac on Stop Cyberbullying Day, donating 50% of proceeds of sales from limited edition putter grips. \n\nTo mark the day in 2012, The Cybersmile Foundation released research revealing that 92% of UK teachers had come across cyberbullying at some point during their career, with 78% revealing that they had personally experienced cyberbullying, whether directed at themselves, their students or other members of staff.\n\nOn Stop Cyberbullying Day 2017, a survey with 50,000 internet users in the U.S. and U.K. was released. The study explored bystander experiences of cyberbullying and online abuse.\n\nIn 2017, The Cybersmile Foundation released a PSA video on Stop Cyberbullying Day with a host of international stars calling for an end to cyberbullying. WWE Wrestlers Big Show, Bayley, teen YouTube stars Johnny Orlando and Lauren Orlando, Daniel Padilla, Kathryn Bernardo and Krista Allen were among the celebrities involved in the project. \n\nIn April 2018, The Cybersmile Foundation launched a Thunderclap campaign for Stop Cyberbullying Day to promote a kinder, more inclusive internet. The campaign was supported by a number of public figures, government departments and brands around the world including Katie Cassidy, Stephen Fry, Charles Sophy, Zoella, Jake Zyrus, UB40, Normani, Claire’s, TalkTalk Group, Barclays, Kingston Technology, ESL (eSports), Talking Tom, Born This Way Foundation, DCMS, Mental Health America and VH1. \n\nOn June 15th 2018, the campaign went live with a social reach of over 101 million internet users across Facebook and Twitter. The campaign promoted messages of diversity and inclusion online. \n\nAt the 2015 Capital Summertime Ball, artists at the show including Little Mix, Nick Jonas, Jason Derulo, Camilla Cabello, Kelly Clarkson and Carly Rae Jepsen shared their thoughts on how to deal with cyberbullying with Sugarscape ahead of Stop Cyberbullying Day during the Feel The Love Fortnight campaign. \n\nDavid Hasselhoff , William Shatner , Celine Dion , One Direction , Charlotte Crosby and Mackenzie Ziegler are among a host of public figures who have participated in Stop Cyberbullying Day, contributing memes and tweets in support of the day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83030", "title": "The Nature of the Firm", "text": "The Nature of the Firm\n\n“The Nature of the Firm” (1937), is an article by Ronald Coase. It offered an economic explanation of why individuals choose to form partnerships, companies and other business entities rather than trading bilaterally through contracts on a market. The paper won a Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 1991.\n\nGiven that production could be carried on without any organization, Coase asks, \"Why and under what conditions should we expect firms to emerge?\" Since modern firms can only emerge when an entrepreneur of some sort begins to hire people, Coase's analysis proceeds by considering the conditions under which it makes sense for an entrepreneur to seek hired help instead of contracting out for some particular task.\n\nThe traditional economic theory of the time suggested that, because the market is \"efficient\" (that is, those who are best at providing each good or service most cheaply are already doing so), it should always be cheaper to contract out than to hire.\n\nCoase noted, however, that there are a number of transaction costs to using the market; the cost of obtaining a good or service via the market is actually more than just the price of the good. Other costs, including search and information costs, bargaining costs, keeping trade secrets, and policing and enforcement costs, can all potentially add to the cost of procuring something via the market. This suggests that firms will arise when they can arrange to produce what they need internally and somehow avoid these costs.\n\nThere is a natural limit to what can be produced internally, however. Coase notices \"decreasing returns to the entrepreneur function\", including increasing overhead costs and increasing propensity for an overwhelmed manager to make mistakes in resource allocation. This is a countervailing cost to the use of the firm.\n\nCoase argues that the size of a firm (as measured by how many contractual relations are \"internal\" to the firm and how many \"external\") is a result of finding an optimal balance between the competing tendencies of the costs outlined above. In general, making the firm larger will initially be advantageous, but the decreasing returns indicated above will eventually kick in, preventing the firm from growing indefinitely.\n\nOther things being equal, a firm will tend to be larger:\n\n\nThe first two costs will increase with the spatial distribution of the transactions organized and the dissimilarity of the transactions. This explains why firms tend to either be in different geographic locations or to perform different functions. Additionally, technology changes that mitigate the cost of organizing transactions across space will cause firms to be larger—the advent of the telephone and cheap air travel, for example, would be expected to increase the size of firms. On a related note the use of the internet and related modern information and communication technologies seem to lead to the existence of so-called virtual organizations.\n\nCoase does not consider non-contractual relationships, as between friends or family.\n\nIn 1991, Coase was awarded the Sveriges Riksbank (Bank of Sweden) Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. His paper provided a breakthrough on the significance of transaction costs and property rights for the institutional structure and functioning of the economy.\n\nThis article was famously referred by Yochai Benkler in his article \"Coase's Penguin, or, Linux and The Nature of the Firm\", where he links Coase's essay to the emergence of commons-based peer production communities using the Internet.\n\nThe World Bank's 2019 World Development Report on \"The Changing Nature of Work\" suggests that firms and production processes become less vertically integrated as technology makes it cheaper to resort to the open market to complete portions of the production process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37185599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37185599", "title": "Trade mark coexistence agreement", "text": "Trade mark coexistence agreement\n\nA trade mark coexistence agreement is an agreement made by two parties to use a similar trademark for marketing purposes without interfering in each other's enterprises. Agreements of this nature are often made as parties only require regional use of their trademarks, and therefore other enterprises use of a trademark will not harm their business. Coexistence agreements can potentially also involve designs, copyrights and even patents.\n\nThe purpose of a trade mark coexistence agreement is that often marks are used by multiple enterprises in \"good faith\". The absence of a formal agreement does not undermine any enterprise using the mark as they are in different global regions. However, as the enterprises grow, overlaps can develop, and both parties can have substantial rights for using the trade mark. In certain cases, companies who are expanding and using the same or a similar trade mark usually enter in a coexistence agreement for the purpose of avoiding usage of the trademark in a way which is undesirable or infringing. Coexistence agreements can offer practical solutions to companies who are concerned about being sued for trade mark infringement, as proactive agreements can avoid the large cost of litigation.\n\nA formal trade mark coexistence agreement recognises the rights of both parties to use the trademarks contained in the agreement for marketing purposes. The agreement can contain a division of regions in which enterprises party to the agreement may use the trade mark, methods in which the trademark may be used, or classes of goods and services that the trade mark may be used for (in conjunction with the Madrid System for the International Registration of Marks).\n\nA trade mark coexistence agreement should clearly contain: any parties to the agreement, the specified trade marks or logos which is to coexist, an understanding as to which domain names each party is using, a list of areas and geographical areas that the trade marks or logos where coexistence is allowed and not allowed, and any relevant plans for the expansion of the enterprise. Additionally, the coexistence agreement should contain the start and end date of the agreement, a clause establishing the jurisdiction of the agreement and a dispute resolution clause.\n\nPublic interest must be considered when entering into a trade mark coexistence agreement. This often applies in situations such as if two medical companies bore the same trade mark for unique products, as this could lead to confusion and have serious impacts on consumers. Companies must also consider anti trust regulations. Courts may find that similar trademarks may affect competition in the marketplace.\n"}
{"id": "15846030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15846030", "title": "Veterans Way/College Avenue station", "text": "Veterans Way/College Avenue station\n\nVeterans Way/College Ave, also known as the Tempe Transportation Center, is a regional transportation center on Valley Metro Rail in Tempe, Arizona, United States. As part of the regional transportation system, it is also the location of stops on multiple bus routes. A bike station is located here.\n\nThis station has three names: Valley Metro calls the train platforms of this station Veterans Way/College Ave and the local bus bays the Tempe Transportation Center. Both are part of the same facility and immediately adjacent to Sun Devil Stadium which serves as the station's third name, as shown on the train platform signs. Bus schedules, train maps, and local signage all refer variously to only one of the names.\n\nThe Tempe Transportation Center facilities are a combination of a light rail station, bus transfer stations and a mixed use building all in the shadow of A Mountain. The main building is composed of three stories with retail space, a transit information center and Arizona's first Bike Station all located on the first floor. The second floor is home to the offices for the City of Tempe Transportation Department Offices and the signature element of the project, the Don Cassano Community Room which is open on the ground level to provide shading for pedestrians passing by. On the third floor of the building are leaseable office space and the City of Tempe's Transit Operations Center. The center was designed by the Tempe-based firm Architekton with Portland, OR based OTAK Inc. and is currently under review for LEED v2.2 Platinum Certification. The majority of the outdoor area on the site is covered with water permeable pavers for natural drainage. On the roof are solar panels and a green roof designed to reduce the heat island effect with local plants to help insulate the building.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30873205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873205", "title": "X-Patent", "text": "X-Patent\n\nThe X-Patents are all the patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office from July 1790 (when the first U.S. patent was issued), to July 1836. The actual number is unknown, but the best estimate is 9,957. The records were burned in a fire, in December 1836, while in temporary storage. No copies or rosters were maintained by the government at the time, leaving only the inventors' copies to reconstruct the collection.\n\nThe Patent Commission of the U.S. was created in 1790. Its first three members were Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of War Henry Knox, and Attorney General Edmund Randolph.\n\nOn July 31, 1790 inventor Samuel Hopkins of Pittsford, Vermont became the first person to be issued a patent in the United States. His patented invention was an improvement in the \"making of Pot Ash by a new apparatus & process.\" The earliest patent law required that a working model of each invention be produced in miniature.\n\nThe Patent Law was revised for the first time in 1793. It adopted a simple registration system where a patent would be granted for a $30 fee. The Patent Board was replaced by a clerk in the Department of State. James Madison, Secretary of State, created a separate Patent Office within the State Department and he appointed Dr. William Thornton as its first superintendent in May 1802.\n\nThe Patent Office was the only major government building to survive the British invasion of Washington, D.C. during the War of 1812. This is credited to Dr. William Thornton who was building a musical instrument in the same building. He persuaded British officers that they would be destroying the shared intellectual record of mankind if the patents were burned.\n\nThe Patent Office 1836 fire occurred on December 15 when the patents were in temporary storage while a new (more fireproof) facility was being built. A fire station was located next to the temporary storage facility, but the hoses and pumps were frozen, and the firemen were unable to prevent the loss.\n\nThe United States Congress immediately passed a law to aid re-issuing of the missing patents after the fire. About 2,800 such patents have been recovered, and 1,989 are online.\n\nUp until five months prior to the fire, U.S. patents had not been numbered, and were identified by titles and dates. The first patent denoted with the serial numbering system still in use today was issued on July 13, 1836, and was given the number 1. The recovered patents are also numbered from 1, but these numbers have an \"X\" added to them. The X is generally added to the end of the number except for the first patent which has the X in the beginning of the number. Therefore, they are called X-Patents.\n\nWhen an earlier patent was recovered and re-issued, the USPTO sometimes gave it a fractional number (e.g. 2960½X, issued on June 2, 1818; 8736¾X, issued on March 27, 1835) to preserve the correct sequence. Most, but not all, fractional patents are X-Patents.\n\nThe latest X-Patents were recovered in 2004 from the Dartmouth College archives. Of the 14 found, 10 were granted to Samuel Morey including the first known patent for an internal combustion engine.\n\n\n"}
