{"id": "25916051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25916051", "title": "An Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery", "text": "An Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery\n\nAn Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery, passed by the Pennsylvania legislature on 1 March 1780, prescribed an end for slavery in Pennsylvania. It was the first act abolishing slavery in the course of human history to be adopted by a democracy. The Act prohibited further importation of slaves into the state, required Pennsylvania slaveholders to annually register their slaves (with forfeiture for noncompliance, and manumission for the enslaved), and established that all children born in Pennsylvania were free persons regardless of the condition or race of their parents. Those enslaved in Pennsylvania before the 1780 law entered effect remained enslaved for life. Another act of the Pennsylvania legislature freed them in 1847. Pennsylvania's \"gradual abolition\"—rather than Massachusetts's 1783 \"instant abolition\"—became a model for freeing slaves in other Northern states.\n\nThe 1780 Act prohibited further importation of slaves into Pennsylvania, but it also respected the property rights of Pennsylvania slaveholders by not freeing slaves already held in the state. It changed the legal status of future children born to enslaved Pennsylvania mothers from \"slave\" to \"indentured servant\", but required those children to work for the mother's master until age 28. To verify that no additional slaves were imported, the Act created a registry of all slaves in the state. Slaveholders who failed to register their slaves annually, or who did it improperly, lost their slaves to manumission.\n\nThe 1780 Act specifically exempted members of the U.S. Congress and their personal slaves. Congress was then the only branch of the federal government under the Articles of Confederation, and met in Philadelphia.\n\nAn Amendment, created to explain and to close loopholes in the 1780 Act, was passed in the Pennsylvania legislature on 29 March 1788. The Amendment prohibited a Pennsylvania slaveholder from transporting a pregnant enslaved woman out-of-state so her child would be born enslaved; and from separating husbands from wives, and children from parents. It required a Pennsylvania slaveholder to register within six months the birth of a child to an enslaved mother. It prohibited all Pennsylvanians from participating in, building or equipping ships for, or providing material support to the slave trade.\n\nThe 1780 Act had allowed a non-resident slaveholder visiting Pennsylvania to hold slaves in the state for up to six months. But a loophole was soon identified and exploited: if the non-resident slaveholder took his slaves out of Pennsylvania before the 6-month deadline, it would void his slaves' residency. The 1788 Amendment prohibited this rotation of slaves in and out-of-state to subvert Pennsylvania law.\n\nThe 1780 Act had exempted personal slaves owned by members of Congress. By 1790, when Philadelphia became the temporary national capital for 10 years, there were three branches of the federal government under the US Constitution. There was confusion about whether or not the Pennsylvania law extended to all federal officials; members of Congress (legislative branch) remained exempt, but there was uncertainty regarding whether justices of the US Supreme Court (judicial branch) and the US President and the US Cabinet (executive branch) would also be exempt. Attorney General Edmund Randolph lost his personal slaves to manumission because of his misunderstanding of the state law. He conveyed his advice to President George Washington through the president's secretary, Tobias Lear:\n\nThis being the case, the Attorney General conceived, that after six months residence, your slaves would be upon no better footing than his. But he observed, that if, before the expiration of six months, they could, upon any pretense whatever, be carried or sent out of the State, but for a single day, a new era would commence on their return, from whence the six months must be dated for it requires an entire six months for them to claim that right.\n\nWashington argued privately that his presence in Philadelphia was solely a consequence of the city being the temporary national capital and that he remained a citizen of Virginia and subject to its laws on slavery. Still, he was careful not to spend six continuous months in Pennsylvania, which might be interpreted as establishing legal residency. Litigating the issue might have clarified his legal status and that of other slaveholding federal officials, but it also would have called attention to his slaveholding in the President's House and put him at risk of losing those slaves to manumission. It was thought that he followed Randolph's advice and knowingly and repeatedly violated the state's 1788 Amendment by rotating the enslaved Africans in his presidential household into and out of Pennsylvania. \n\nThere is no record of Washington being challenged. According to Lear, the Pennsylvania Abolition Society seems to have turned a blind eye to the President's actions:\n\nThat the Society in this city for the abolition of slavery, had determined to give no advice and take no measures for liberating those Slaves which belonged to the Officers of the general Government or members of Congress. But notwithstanding this, there were not wanting persons who would not only give them (the Slaves) advise, but would use all means to entice them from their masters.\n\nOther slaveholding officers of the executive and judicial branches faced a similar dilemma. Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson swore that he would eventually free his enslaved cook, James Hemings, if Hemings would agree not take advantage of Pennsylvania's abolition law.\n\nPhiladelphia's hostile environment for slaveholders was one of the reasons that the Constitution was written to give Congress exclusive control \"over such District... as may... become the seat of the government of the United States.\"\n\nThose enslaved in Pennsylvania before its 1780 Act became law continued to be lifelong slaves, unless manumitted. Also, the 1780 Act and its 1788 Amendment did not apply to fugitive slaves from other states or their children. Pennsylvania tried to extend rights to fugitive slaves through an 1826 personal liberty law, but it and the 1788 Amendment were ruled unconstitutional by the US Supreme Court in \"Prigg v. Pennsylvania\" (1842).\n\nAlthough slavery steadily declined in Pennsylvania, the state that had initially led the way toward abolition tolerated it for decades after it ended in New England. The 1840 U.S. Census listed 47,854 (99.87%) of the state's blacks as free, and 64 (0.13%) as slaves. Legal slavery ended in Pennsylvania in 1847, when the several dozen remaining slaves (the youngest was 67) were freed.\n\n\nNew Jersey's gradual abolition law freed future children at birth, but male children of enslaved women could be held until age twenty-five and females until age twenty-one. Those enslaved before passage of the 1804 law remained enslaved for life. The last vestiges of slavery remained in New Jersey until December 6, 1865 when ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution ended slavery in the United States. New Jersey's legislature did not approve the Thirteenth Amendment until February 1866, two months after it had been ratified by three-fourths of the states.\n\n"}
{"id": "24652257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24652257", "title": "Andrew Douglas Maclagan", "text": "Andrew Douglas Maclagan\n\nSir Andrew Douglas Maclagan (17 April 1812, in Ayr – 5 April 1900, in Edinburgh) was a Scottish surgeon, toxicologist and scholar of medical jurisprudence. He served as president of 5 learned societies: the Royal Medical Society (1832), the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (1859–61), the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (1884–87), the Royal Society of Edinburgh (1890–5), and the Royal Scottish Society of Arts (1900).\n\nHe was born on 17 April 1812 in Ayr to the Scottish physician David Maclagan FRSE (1785–1865), and Jane Whiteside.\n\nHe was the elder brother of William Dalrymple Maclagan, who would become Archbishop of York; and of the engineer and soldier Gen Sir Robert Maclagan. His youngest brother was the eminent accountant, David Maclagan FRSE (1824-1883) manager of the Edinburgh Life Assurance company.\n\nDouglas was educated at the Royal High School and the University of Edinburgh, graduating in 1833. He subsequently toured hospitals in London and in continental Europe with James Young Simpson.\n\nOn his return to Scotland, Maclagan was appointed Assistant Surgeon at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. He lectured on \"Materia Medica\" at the Extramural School of Medicine 1845-1862. Maclagan was a close friend of toxicologist Robert Christison, and he developed an interest in toxicology and forensic medicine.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1843, his proposer being Robert Christison. He served as their Curator 1856-1878, Vice President 1878-1890, and President 1890-1895.\n\nMaclagan was appointed to the Chair of Medical Jurisprudence and Public Health at the University of Edinburgh in 1862, retiring in 1897. This included some of the world's first lectures on Forensic Science.\n\nHe died at home, 28 Heriot Row in Edinburgh on 5 April 1900.\n\nHe is buried with his wife and children in Dean Cemetery on the west side of Edinburgh. He is buried in his father's plot, against the north wall of the original cemetery, backing onto the north extension.\n\nHis sons included Dr David Philip Maclagan and Dr Robert Craig Maclagan.\n\nIn his role both as a toxicologist and forensic scientist Maclagan gave evidence in many trials, including some very notable cases:\n\n\n\nMaclagan was knighted in 1886.\n\n\nMaclagan was married to Elizabeth Allan Thomson (d.1885). They had twin daughters who died in infancy in 1842, plus a further infant daughter died in 1850.\n\nA son, David Philip Maclagan, was a surgeon in the Royal Navy and died in Honduras in 1860, aged only 23.\n\nNellie, their only surviving daughter, died in 1892 aged 48.\n\nHis son Dr Robert Craig Maclagan FRSE(1839-1919) was a prominent physician and anthropologist.\n\n"}
{"id": "51137932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51137932", "title": "Animal welfare and rights in Mexico", "text": "Animal welfare and rights in Mexico\n\nAnimal welfare and rights in Mexico regards the treatment of and laws concerning non-human animals in Mexico. Mexico has limited protections for animals by international standards.\n\nMost of Mexico's states and the Federal District have prohibitions against animal cruelty. In Michoacan, Quintana Roo, and the Federal District, cruelty by negligence is included. This is not the case in Tlaxcala, and in Baja California applies only to certain kinds of animal. Chiapas and Baja California Sur did not have animal welfare protections as of November 2014.\n\nThe Federal Animal Health Act 2007 contains a number of provisions concerning the welfare of farm animals (not including aquatic animals). The main purpose of the Act is to diagnose, prevent, and control diseases in animals, but welfare is also addressed. Owners or keepers of domestic animals must provide adequate food and water, veterinarian supervision and immediate attention in case of injury. The Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development, Fisheries and Food is responsible for protecting the health and welfare of animals in \"primary production\", determining rules on animal welfare, transport and slaughter. State-level anti-cruelty provisions also apply to farm animals.\n\nIn 2014, Mexico received a D out of possible grades A,B,C,D,E,F,G on World Animal Protection's Animal Protection Index. They are working progressively to get a better grade. Now they have a B.\n\nThe majority of Mexican pigs are raised on intensive animal farming operations. Between 1990 and 2005, pig production increased by 50%, and by 2009 over 15 million pigs were slaughtered for food each year.\n\nAccording to a 2016 world cattle inventory, Mexico has the ninth-largest cattle herd in the world at 16,450,000 cows.\n\nIn 2009, Mexico had the seventh-largest number of chickens at approximately 500 million.\n\nDe-beaking, de-toeing, tail-docking, tooth pulling, castration, and dehorning of livestock without anaesthetic are legal in Mexico, as is confinement in gestation crates and battery cages.\n\nTesting cosmetics on animals is legal in Mexico.\n\nThe international animal nonprofit AnimaNaturalis protests against bullfighting in Mexico.\n\nHumane Society International has a major chapter in Mexico, whose activities involve campaigns against dogfighting, pet abuse, and advocacy for a plant-based diet.\n"}
{"id": "8087766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8087766", "title": "Attribution (copyright)", "text": "Attribution (copyright)\n\nAttribution in copyright law, is acknowledgement as credit to the copyright holder or author of a work. If a work is under copyright, there is a long tradition of the author requiring attribution while directly quoting portions of work created by that author.\n\nAn author may formally require attribution required via a license, legally preventing others from claiming to have written the work and allowing a copyright holder to retain reputational benefits from having written it. In cases when the copyright holder is the author themselves, this behavior is often moralized as a sign of decency and respect to acknowledge the creator by giving them credit for the work.\n\nThis said, a work in the public domain, which is any not covered by copyright, has no such attribution requirement in most parts of the world. This is the distinguishing factor between plagiarism, which is not a crime, and copyright infringement, which may be a cause of legal action from the author.\n\nThe most fundamental form of attribution is the statement of the copyright holder's identity, often in the form \"Copyright © [year] [copyright holder’s name]\". The preservation of such a notice was an invariable requirement to prevent a work entering the public domain; this changed in the United States on March 1, 1989 when the requirement of copyright registration and copyright signment was ended. Copyright holder attribution is in most countries in the world not required, due to Berne convention.\n\nAuthor attribution is required by several licenses, such as the open-content Creative Commons licenses and most free and/or open source software licenses such as the MIT permissive license. Open content licenses without the requirement for author attribution include public domain equivalent licenses, like CC0.\n\n"}
{"id": "4982506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4982506", "title": "Australian insurance law", "text": "Australian insurance law\n\nAustralian insurance law is based on commercial contract law, but is subject to regulations that affect the insurance industry and insurance contracts within Australia. Commonwealth Parliament has power to make laws with respect to insurance and insurance companies under section 51(xiv) (insurance other than state insurance) and (xx) (the corporations power) of the Australian Constitution. Generally, the \"Insurance Act 1973\" and \"Insurance Contracts Act 1984\" are the main acts that apply, however there are a number of other pieces of legislation enacted by the states, private codes and volumous case law all of which forms the body of insurance law.\n\nThe \"Insurance Act 1973\" (Cth) sets minimum capital and solvency requirements for companies wanting to enter or operate in the insurance market.\n\nChapter 7 of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" (Cth) regulates the way in which insurers and insurance agents and brokers carry on business and how they deal with the people they do business with and intend to do business with.\n\nThe \"Insurance Contracts Act 1984\" (ICA) applies to most insurance contracts with an Australian connection and is intended to ensure that a fair balance is struck between the interests of the insurer and the insured.\n\nThe primary federal laws affecting the industry include:\nOther legislation which affects the industry includes:\nFurther regulations include:\n\nThe prudential aspects of general, life and health insurance (solvency etc.) are regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), which has the power under the \"Insurance Act 1973\" to investigate a general insurer, freeze its assets or direct it to take specific action (for example, stop writing new business).\n\nThe Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) is responsible for the general administration of the \"Insurance Contracts Act 1984\". Matters relating to advice or disclosure of insurance products sold are regulated by ASIC. The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) also has a regulatory role with respect to competition law. \n\nIn certain states, various bodies also have powers in regulating certain types of statutory insurance. For example, in New South Wales the Motor Accidents Authority regulates Compulsory Third Party motor liability insurance. In many cases these bodies have powers regarding premium rating and reinsurance rules.\n\nThe formation of an insurance contract is governed by ordinary contractual principles however, as a commercial contract, a policy of insurance should be given a businesslike interpretation \"having regard to the language used by the parties, the commercial circumstances the document addresses, and the objects which it is intended to secure.\"\n\nThe General Insurance Code of Practice is a self-regulatory code that binds all general insurers who are signatories to it. It has been approved by ASIC pursuant to s 1101A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).\n\nIf a person doesn't agree with the outcome of the insurer's Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) process, they can contact the Financial Ombudsman Service with a request that the Service resolve the dispute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "918152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918152", "title": "Bank holding company", "text": "Bank holding company\n\nA bank holding company is a company that controls one or more banks, but does not necessarily engage in banking itself. The compound bancorp (\"banc\"/\"bank\" + \"corp[oration]\") is often used to refer these companies as well.\n\nIn the United States, a bank holding company, as provided by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ( \"et seq.\"), is broadly defined as \"any company that has control over a bank\". All bank holding companies in the US are required to register with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.\n\nThe Federal Reserve Board of Governors, under Regulation Y () has responsibility for regulating and supervising bank holding company activities, such as establishing capital standards, approving mergers and acquisitions and inspecting the operations of such companies. This authority applies even though a bank owned by a holding company may be under the primary supervision of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.\n\nBecoming a bank holding company makes it easier for the firm to raise capital than as a traditional bank. The holding company can assume debt of shareholders on a tax free basis, borrow money, acquire other banks and non-bank entities more easily, and issue stock with greater regulatory ease. It also has a greater legal authority to conduct share repurchases of its own stock.\n\nThe downside includes responding to additional regulatory authorities, especially if there are more than 2,000 shareholders (note: prior to the Jobs Act or Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, the shareholder number was 300), at which point the bank holding company is forced to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. There are also added expenses of operating with an extra layer of administration.\n\nAs a result of the global financial crisis of 2008, many traditional investment banks and finance corporations such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, American Express, CIT Group and GMAC (now Ally Financial) successfully converted to bank holding companies in order to gain access to liquidity and funding.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39275778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39275778", "title": "Board of Veterans' Appeals", "text": "Board of Veterans' Appeals\n\nThe Board of Veterans' Appeals (often referred to as the Board) is an administrative tribunal within the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), located in Washington, D.C. It determines whether U.S. military veterans are entitled to claimed veterans' benefits and services. The Board's mission is to conduct hearings and decide appeals properly before the Board in a timely manner. 38 United States Code (U.S.C.) § 7101 (a). The Board's jurisdiction extends to all questions in matters involving a decision by the Secretary under a law that affects a provision of benefits by the Secretary to Veterans, their dependents, or their Survivors. 38 U.S.C. §§ 551(a); 7104(a). Final decision on such appeals are made by the Board based on the entire record in the proceedings and upon consideration of all evidence and applicable provisions of law and regulation. The Board's review is de novo.\n\nThe Board is led by the Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals. The Chairman is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The Chairman position was vacant from February 2011 - December 2017. On September 5, 2017, President Donald J. Trump nominated Cheryl L. Mason of Virginia to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans Appeals for a term of six years. Chairman Mason was sworn in by Dr. David J. Shulkin, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, on December 11, 2017.\n\nIn Fiscal Year 2018, the Board issued over 81,000 decisions for Veterans and their families, which is the highest number of decisions issued by the Board since the 1988 enactment of the Veterans' Judicial Review Act (VJRA), which established the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims (CAVC). The FY 18 total of 85,288 decisions is a 62% increase over the FY 17 total of 52,537. Additionally, the Board held 16,422 hearings.\n\nThe appeals process in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA of the Department) is a complex, non-linear process, which is set in law and is unique from other standard appeals processes across the Federal and judicial systems. A feature of the current VA appeals process is a continuous open record that allows a Veteran, Survivor, or other appellant to submit new evidence and/or make new argument at any point from the beginning to the end of the appeals process. Additionally, the duty to assist throughout the appeals process requires VA to develop further evidence on the Veteran's behalf and pursue new argument and theories of entitlement. Each time arguments are presented and evidence is added/ obtained, VA generally must issue another decision considering that evidence, which protracts the timeline for appellate resolution.\n\nDue to increasing difficulty to address the growing number of appeals in the current system, there have been various attempts to streamline the appeals process. , the most recent proposal was the \"Department of Veterans Affairs Appeals Modernization Act\", a reintroduction of S. 3328 from the 114th U.S. Congress. The bill was reintroduced on March 24, 2017 by a group of sixteen U.S. Senators, which include original cosponsors of the legislation. The Appeals Modernization Act passed through Congress and was signed into law by President Trump on August 23, 2017. The Appeals Modernization Act is to be implemented on February 14, 2019.\n\nThe Board of Veterans Appeals was established in July 1933. It was given authority to hear appeals on benefit and services decisions. Members of the Board are appointed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with the approval of the President of the United States.\n\nThe United States has the most comprehensive system of assistance for Veterans of any nation in the world, with roots that can be traced back to 1636, when the Pilgrims of Plymouth Colony were at war with the Pequot Indians. The Pilgrims passed a law that stated that disabled soldiers would be supported by the colony. Later, the Continental Congress of 1776 encouraged enlistments during the Revolutionary War, providing pensions to disabled soldiers. In the early days of the Republic, individual states and communities provided direct medical and hospital care to Veterans. In 1811, the federal government authorized the first domiciliary and medical facility for Veterans. Also in the 19th century, the nation's Veterans assistance program was expanded to include benefits and pensions not only for Veterans, but for their widows and dependents. This commitment is reflected in U.S. President Abraham Lincoln's words \"to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for this widow, and his orphan,\" which is also the current motto of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.\n\n\nThe Board has as many members as the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs deems \"necessary in order to conduct hearings and dispose of appeals properly before the Board in a timely manner\". Board members are appointed by the Secretary, with the approval of the President. Members of the Board are appointed by the President and are commissioned as Veterans Law Judges (VLJs).\n\nBy the of October 2018 the Chairman will lead a Board of 96 VLJs. Members of the Board are required to be \"experienced attorneys in the field of veterans law\". Staff attorneys, also trained in veterans law, review the facts of each appeal and assist the Board members.\n\nThe Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals is a senior position within the United States Department of Veterans Affairs that directs the Board of Veterans' Appeals. The Chairman is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate for a 6-year term\n\nDavid Spickler, formerly the Principal Deputy Vice Chairman, served as the Executive-in-Charge from January 20, 2017 to December 10, 2017.\n\nCheryl L. Mason was nominated by President Donald Trump to become the Chairman of the Board on September 5, 2017 and was confirmed by the United States Senate on November 8, 2017. Chairman Mason was sworn in by Secretary Shulkin on December 11, 2017.\n\nThe following individuals served as Chairman:\n\n\nWhen Veterans' Affairs became a Cabinet Department, the Chairman position became a Presidential Appointment with Senate Confirmation to a 6-year term:\n\n\nAn individual may file a claim for VA Veterans benefits and programs, such as: Disability Compensation; Education Assistance (GI Bill/ Post 9-11 GI Bill); Insurance; Dependency and Indemnity Compensation; Medical; Pension; and Vocational Rehabilitation and Education (VR&E). The most common claim is for Disability Compensation, which comprised 93.88 percent of all appeals in Fiscal Year 2015. For example, a Veteran who receives an injury, or develops a medical condition while serving in the United States Armed Forces, is generally entitled to receive compensation based on the degree to which the injury affects things like the person's mobility, future earning capacity, or quality of life. A claimant seeking such benefits first files a claim with a Regional Office of the VA located near the claimant. When a claimant's application for benefits has been denied by the Agency of Original Jurisdiction, such as the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA), Veterans Health Administration (VHA) or National Cemetery Administration (NCA), an appeal can be made to the Board of Veterans' Appeals. The Board is part of the Department of Veterans Affairs, located in Washington, DC, and makes the final determination on an appeal within the VA's jurisdiction. Board members make the final decision on appeals within the VA. The Board also employs staff attorneys that assist the Board members while preparing a decision for a claim, much like a clerk for a judge.\n\nDecisions of the Board may be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, which is not part of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and from there to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.\n\nThe process of appealing an unfavorable decision consists of several steps:\n\n\nA more detailed overview of the appeals process can be found in VA Pamphlet 01-15-02B, which is available online at https://www.bva.va.gov/How_Do_I_APPEAL.asp.\n\n"}
{"id": "7762461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7762461", "title": "Broadcasting Act 1980", "text": "Broadcasting Act 1980\n\nThe Broadcasting Act 1980 (1980 c. 64) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. It was repealed by the Broadcasting Act 1981, though the provisions of the Act remained in force.\n\nThe most significant effect of the Act was to amend the Independent Broadcasting Authority Act 1973, giving the Independent Broadcasting Authority the power to provide a second television station. This began the process which would lead to the creation of Channel 4 in 1982.\n\nIt also made provision for the broadcasting of television programmes in Wales, and established the Broadcasting Complaints Commission.\n\nIt also allowed the government to take over control of the BBC in a time of national emergency.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798225", "title": "Compact theory", "text": "Compact theory\n\nCompact theory refers to two theories related to the development of federal constitutions. In the United States, it differs from the contract theory in that it favored the rights of states over those of the Federal Government.\n\nRegarding the Constitution of the United States, the compact theory holds that the country was formed through a compact agreed upon by all the states, and that the federal government is thus a creation of the states. Consequently, states should be the final arbiters over whether the federal government had overstepped the limits of its authority as set forth in the compact.\n\nLeading proponents of this view of the U.S. Constitution primarily originated from Virginia and other southern states. Notable proponents of the theory include Thomas Jefferson, Under this theory and in reaction to the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, Jefferson claimed the federal government overstepped its authority, and advocated nullification of the laws by the states. The first resolution of the Kentucky Resolutions began by stating:\nResolved, that the several States composing the United States of America, are not united on the principles of unlimited submission to their General Government; but that by compact under the style and title of a Constitution for the United States and of amendments thereto, they constituted a General Government for special purposes, delegated to that Government certain definite powers, reserving each State to itself, the residuary mass of right to their own self Government; and that whensoever the General Government assumes undelegated powers, its acts are unauthoritative, void, and of no force; that to this compact each state acceded as a state, and is an integral party; that the Government created by this compact was not made the exclusive or final judge of the extent of the powers delegated to itself; since that would have made its discretion, and not the Constitution, the measure of its powers; but that, as in all other cases of compact among powers having no common judge, each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of the mode and measure of redress.\n\nOthers have taken the position that the federal government is not a compact among the states, but instead was formed directly by the people, in their exercise of their sovereign power. The people determined that the federal government should be superior to the states. Under this view, the states, which are not parties to the Constitution, do not have the right to determine for themselves the proper scope of federal authority, but instead are bound by the determinations of the federal government. The state of Vermont took this position in response to the Kentucky Resolutions. Daniel Webster advocated this view in his debate with Robert Hayne in the Senate in 1830:\n\n[I]t cannot be shown, that the Constitution is a compact between State governments. The Constitution itself, in its very front, refutes that idea; it, declares that it is ordained and established \"by the people of the United States\". So far from saying that it is established by the governments \"of the several States\", it does not even say that it is established by the people of the several States; but it pronounces that it is established by the people of the United States, in the aggregate. . . . When the gentleman says the Constitution is a compact between the States, he uses language exactly applicable to the old Confederation. He speaks as if he were in Congress before 1789. He describes fully that old state of things then existing. The Confederation was, in strictness, a compact; the States, as States, were parties to it. We had no other general government. But that was found insufficient, and inadequate to the public exigencies. The people were not satisfied with it, and undertook to establish a better. They undertook to form a general government, which should stand on a new basis; not a confederacy, not a league, not a compact between States, but a \"Constitution\"; a popular government, founded in popular election, directly responsible to the people themselves, and divided into branches with prescribed limits of power, and prescribed duties. They ordained such a government, they gave it the name of a \"Constitution\", therein they established a distribution of powers between this, their general government, and their several State governments.\n\nThe leading nineteenth century commentary on the Constitution, Justice Joseph Story's \"Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States\" (1833), likewise rejected the compact theory, concluding that the Constitution was established directly by the people, not by the states, and that it constitutes supreme law, not a mere compact.\n\nIn the years before the Civil War, the compact theory was used by southern states to argue that they had a right to nullify federal law and to secede from the union. For example, during the Nullification Crisis of 1828-1832, John C. Calhoun argued in his South Carolina Exposition and Protest that the states, as the parties to a compact, had the right to judge for themselves whether the terms of the compact were being honored. Calhoun described this \"right of judging\" as \"an essential attribute of sovereignty,\" which the states retained when the Constitution was formed. Calhoun said the states had the right to nullify, or veto, any laws that were inconsistent with the compact.\n\nWhen the southern states seceded in 1860-61, they relied on the compact theory to justify secession. The southern states argued that the northern states had violated the compact by undermining and attacking the institution of slavery and the slaveholders' property rights in their slaves. The southern states stated that they therefore were justified in withdrawing from the compact among the states.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has rejected the idea that the Constitution is a compact among the states. Rather, the Court has stated that the Constitution was established directly by the people of the United States, not by the states.\n\nIn one of the Supreme Court's first significant decisions, \"Chisholm v. Georgia\" (1793), Chief Justice John Jay stated that the Constitution was established directly by the people. Jay noted the language of the Preamble of the Constitution, which says that the Constitution was ordained and established by \"We the people,\" and stated: \"Here we see the people acting as sovereigns of the whole country, and, in the language of sovereignty, establishing a Constitution by which it was their will that the State governments should be bound.\"\n\nIn \"Martin v. Hunter's Lessee\" (1816), the Supreme Court explicitly rejected the idea that the Constitution is a compact among the states, stating: \"The Constitution of the United States was ordained and established not by the States in their sovereign capacities, but emphatically, as the preamble of the Constitution declares, by 'the people of the United States.'\" The Court contrasted the earlier Articles of Confederation with the Constitution, characterizing the Articles of Confederation as a compact among states, while stating that the Constitution was established not by the states, but by the people.\n\nLikewise, in \"McCulloch v. Maryland\" (1819), the Supreme Court stated that the federal Constitution proceeded directly from the people, and was not created by the states. The Court stated that the Constitution was binding on the states and could not be negated by the states. The Court again contrasted the Articles of Confederation, which was established by the states, to the Constitution, which was established by the people.\n\nAfter the Civil War, in \"Texas v. White\" (1869), a case discussing the legal status of the southern states that had attempted to secede, the Supreme Court stated that the union was not merely a compact among states; rather, the union was \"something more than a compact.\"\n\nIn the Canadian context, compact theory posits that Confederation was an agreement between the two founding peoples, French and English, and that therefore Quebec should have special veto powers relating to its position in the federal structure. However, compact theory was rejected by the Supreme Court of Canada in the 1981 Patriation Reference. Compact theory is often advanced by Quebec nationalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "28485158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28485158", "title": "Convention Parliament (1689)", "text": "Convention Parliament (1689)\n\nThe English Convention (1689) was an assembly of the Parliament of England which transferred the crowns of England, Scotland and Ireland from James II to William III and Mary II as co-regents.\n\nImmediately following the Glorious Revolution, with King James II of England in flight and Prince William III of Orange nearing London, the Earl of Rochester summoned the Lords Temporal and Lords Spiritual to assemble, and they were joined by the privy councillors on 12 December 1688 to form a provisional government for England. James II returned to London on 16 December; by the 17th he was effectively a prisoner of William who arrived in London the next day. Subsequently, William allowed James to flee in safety, to avoid the ignominy of doing his uncle and father-in-law any immediate harm.\n\nWilliam refused the crown as \"de facto\" king and instead called another assembly of peers on 21 December 1688. On 23 December James fled to France. On 26 December the peers were joined by the surviving members of Charles II's Oxford Parliament (from the previous reign), ignoring the MPs who were just elected to James's Loyal Parliament of 1685. The Earl of Nottingham proposed a conditional restoration of King James II, an idea supported by Archbishop Sancroft, but the proposal was rejected and instead the assembly asked William to summon a convention.\n\nThe Convention Parliament met on 22 January 1689. The parliament spent much time arguing over whether James II was considered to have abdicated or abandoned the throne in some manner and who then should take the crown. The Whigs referred to theories of social contract and argued that William alone should now be king. A few 'Radical' Whigs argued for a republic, but most Whigs argued for a limited monarchy.\n\nThe Tories favoured the retention of James II, a regency, or William's wife, Mary, alone as queen. Archbishop Sancroft and loyalist bishops preferred that James II be conditionally restored.\n\nOn 29 January, it was resolved that England was a Protestant kingdom and only a Protestant could be king, thus disinheriting a Catholic claimant. James was a Roman Catholic.\n\nBy the beginning of February, the Commons agreed on the descriptor \"abdicated\" and that the throne was vacant, but the Lords rejected abdicated as the term was unknown in common law and indicated that even if the throne was vacant, it should automatically pass to the next in line, which implied it was to be Mary.\n\nHowever, on 6 February the Lords capitulated, primarily since it became apparent that neither Mary nor Anne would agree to rule in place of William. As a compromise, the Lords proposed that William III and Mary II should both take the throne, which the Commons agreed if William alone held regal power.\n\nThe parliament drew up a Declaration of Right to address abuses of government under James II and to secure the religion and liberties of Protestants, which was finalised on 12 February.\n\nOn 13 February, William and Mary were proclaimed King and Queen of England, Scotland and Ireland. The acceptance of the Crown was conditional not upon acceptance of the Declaration of Right but on the assumption that they rule according to law.\n\nOn 23 February 1689, King William III reconvened the Convention into a regular parliament by dissolving it and summoning a new parliament, which regularised the acts of the Convention Parliament by passing the Crown and Parliament Recognition Act 1689.\n\nThe Convention Parliament of 1689 would be imitated in the Thirteen Colonies, and the use of such conventions as an \"instrument of transition\" became more acceptable and more often used by the Colonies, resulting most notably in the 1787 Constitutional Convention which drew up the United States Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11708991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11708991", "title": "Copyright law of the Russian Federation", "text": "Copyright law of the Russian Federation\n\nThe current Copyright law of the Russian Federation is codified in part IV of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. It entered in force on January 1, 2008.\n\nThe first post-Soviet copyright law of the Russian Federation became effective on August 3, 1993. It completely replaced the older Soviet legislation that had been in effect until then. The new Copyright law of 1993 was based upon WIPO model laws and followed the continental European tradition: it clearly separated economic and moral rights, and it included detailed provisions for neighbouring rights.\n\nThe Copyright law of 1993 had specified a general duration of copyrights of 50 years beyond an author's death, or 50 years since the publication of an anonymous work. The implementation act for the law made the new law apply retroactively, restoring copyrights (and neighbouring rights) on works on which the shorter copyright terms from the Soviet-era had already expired or which had not been copyrighted at all under Soviet law. In 2004, this copyright term was extended to 70 years for all works still copyrighted.\n\nIn 2006, completely rewritten intellectual property laws were included in part IV of a new Civil Code of the Russian Federation. These new laws entered into force on January 1, 2008, replacing all previous intellectual property legislation, including the separate copyright law from 1993. The copyright term has been extended to 70 years for works published by Russian authors and copyright protection has been retroactively granted to works which had their 50-year protection term expire in 1993–2003, bringing many notable works out of public domain. For works that have been created or published in other countries, the law now implements the rule of the shorter term, matching Russian copyright term with those existing in the country of origin.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union was dissolved and the fifteen republics of the Soviet Union became independent states, the copyright law of the USSR also split into fifteen independent copyright laws, each with its own jurisdiction defined by the territory of the new successor state of the Soviet Union. All these successor states initially took over the old Soviet legislation.\n\nAt the time of the disintegration of the USSR, the copyright law in force was defined by chapter IV of the union-wide 1961 Fundamentals of Civil Legislation, amended in 1973, when the USSR had joined the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC). Each of the republics implemented these Fundamentals in their own local laws. In the Russian SFSR, the Russian Civil Code had been adapted to the 1961 Fundamentals in 1964, and the 1973 changes due to the accession to the UCC entered in force in Russia on March 1, 1974. Since 1973, the USSR had had a general copyright term of the lifetime of the author of a work plus 25 years—the minimum prescribed the UCC.\n\nShortly before its demise, the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union had initiated an omnibus revision of the copyright law of the USSR to adapt it to a market economy. The new legislation on copyrights in chapter IV of 1991 Fundamentals was passed as law on March 31, 1991 and scheduled to enter in force on January 1, 1992. The 1991 Fundamentals extended the copyright term to 50 years \"p.m.a.\" and introduced neighbouring rights for the first time in Soviet legislation. But the USSR ceased to exist before the new 1991 law became effective.\n\nIn Russia, the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation passed a decree that made the USSR 1991 Fundamentals effective in Russia from August 3, 1992, on insofar as these Fundamentals contradicted neither the Constitution of the Russian Federation nor other legislative acts of Russia passed after June 12, 1990, and only on a temporary basis until the Russian Federation would have adopted a new, own Civil Code. The original USSR executive decree for the 1991 Fundamentals, which laid down the transitory provisions, did not enter in force in Russia, though, and the old Russian Civil Code remained in force insofar as it didn't contradict the 1991 Fundamentals. Chapter IV of the 1991 Fundamentals was thus in effect for exactly one year until on August 3, 1993, the new Copyright law of Russia entered in force.\n\nThe copyright law of 1993 was inspired by WIPO model laws and in some of its provisions heavily drew upon the formulations of the Conventions of Berne and Rome. The main innovations were much more detailed regulations on neighbouring rights, the adaptation of the law to new technologies, an expansion of contractual freedom, and provisions on collecting societies.\n\nUnder the 1993 law, copyright covers works of the sciences, literature, and the arts that are the result of creative activity and that exist in objective form. Neither the value nor the purpose of a work is a criterion for copyrightability. An \"objective form\" is any realization of a work such that it can be perceived by others in any way. Mere ideas are not copyrightable.\n\nCopyright is vested in an author automatically upon the creation of a work (§9(1)). Both disclosed and undisclosed works are covered by copyright. \"Disclosure\" is a concept newly introduced in the copyright law of 1993 to put an end to the ambiguities surrounding the term \"publication\" in the old Soviet copyright law. In Soviet copyright, publication included ephemerally making available a work, such as through a performance, a speech, or a broadcast. However, for foreign works protected under Soviet law indirectly through international agreements (in particular the UCC), the definition of \"publication\" laid down by these agreements (typically the \"making available of copies\", which excluded ephemeral reproduction and required the physical fixation of a work) was used. The new law tried to resolve this confusion by using \"disclosure\" for the broader sense (making accessible of a work to the general public through publication, performance, broadcast, or any other means), and using \"publication\" generally only in the sense of distribution of copies of a work to the general public.\n\nThe law contains a non-exhaustive list of objective forms, which includes oral realizations. Speeches and jazz improvisations are covered by copyright, and so are interviews. Derivative works and collections or composite works are also eligible to copyright, regardless of whether or not the base works themselves are copyrighted. Among the examples of derivative works listed in the law are translations, abstracts, reviews, dramatizations, and arrangements. For collections, the originality in the selection and presentation of the collected works gives rise to copyright. Collections such as encyclopedias or databases are a special case of composite works, which also include newspapers, magazines, series of scientific works, or other periodicals.\n\nExcluded from copyright are official documents such as laws, judicial decisions, and similar administrative texts, as well as the official translations of such documents. Also deemed uncopyrightable are state symbols and marks (flags, coats of arms, medals, monetary symbols, etc.). This also applies to the symbols of local or municipal authorities. Works of folklore are also not subject to copyright. Finally, purely informational reports on events and facts are not copyrightable, a provision corresponding to article 2(8) of the Berne Convention. If such a report goes beyond the purely factual and includes any commentary, analysis, prediction or other interpretation it is subject to copyright again.\n\nThe Russian copyright law of 1993 covered works first disclosed on Russian territory, as well as undisclosed works that existed in objective form within Russia, regardless of the nationality of the author. It also covered works of Russian authors that were first disclosed outside of Russia or that, if undisclosed, existed only abroad. Foreign works (i.e., works not disclosed in Russia or not existing there of an author who did not have Russian citizenship) were subject to the Russian copyright law according to the provisions of the international treaties Russia was a member of. In 2004, article 5, which laid down these definitions, was amended with a new sub-paragraph 5(4) to cover also foreign works that were still copyrighted in their foreign country of origin, but had never been copyrighted in Russia. Such restored copyrights on foreign works were limited to at most the copyright term they enjoyed in the foreign country.\n\nThe original copyright holder on a work is always the natural person who created the work. Legal entities cannot be original copyright holders. For anonymously published works, the publisher is assumed (until proof to the contrary) to be the author's legal representative who may exercise the copyrights on the work.\n\nIf an employee creates a copyrightable work in the course of his duties vis-à-vis his employer, it is the employee who initially holds the copyright. The law stipulates, however, an automatic transfer of the economic rights to the employer, unless proven otherwise. Employers are required to pay the author royalties for each and every use of the work, but the parties are free to determine this fee and may set it arbitrarily low. If the work created is not connected with the duties of the employee, it does not fall under this special rule, even if the work was created on company time.\n\nIf several authors jointly create a work, they are all considered co-authors and initial copyright holders on the work. If their separate contributions to the work can be used independently, each author may use his part of the whole as he sees fit to do, unless there are contractual obligations to the contrary among the co-authors.\n\nMovies are treated separately by the law as part of the category \"audiovisual works\". Russian law does not require \"moving images\": according to Elst, a slide show may be a \"audiovisual work\" if its internal consistency amongst the images is high enough. The law does, however, require that the images be recorded somehow: a live television broadcast is not an audiovisual work (but is covered by the broadcaster's neighbouring rights). For movies, the law exhaustively enumerates all the initial copyright holders: the director, the author of the script, and the composer of the film music, if any. The law stipulates a transfer of the economic rights relating to publishing the film (including the rights to subtitling and redubbing) to the producer, unless the contract specifies otherwise. Although not considered authors, other individuals such as the camera director or the set designer do have a copyright on their individual works. They may exploit their works independently of the film: a set designer may authorize the use of the set design for a theatre production, and a composer retains his right to remuneration if the music is performed. If the authors or other co-creators of a movie are employed by the producer, their works are subject to the rules for employee-created works. In this case, \"all\" economic rights are transferred by default to the producer.\n\nIn collective works such as encyclopedias, dictionaries, but also newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or also databases, the compiler is granted a copyright on the selection or arrangement, if either are creative. The compiler holds the exclusive economic rights on the use of the collection as a whole. Individual contributors keep their copyright on the parts they created, unless they transfer their rights by contract to the compiler.\n\nThe 1993 copyright law of Russia recognizes both moral rights and economic rights. The moral rights of an author are:\n\nThe exclusive economic rights, also called patrimonial rights, are:\n\nThe law does not recognize a general right of an author to receive a remuneration for the use of a work of his, since authors exclusively hold all the economic rights and can enforce a remuneration in the contracts they conclude with third parties. But the law does recognize two specialized remuneration rights:\n\nThese exclusive right of an author on his works are limited by a number of allowed free uses and one case of a compulsory license (home copying of records). All these free uses limit only the economic rights, the moral rights of an author remain in force. Furthermore, any such free use must not be harmful to the normal exploitation of a work and not harm the legitimate interests of authors.\n\nThe reproduction of a lawfully disclosed work is allowed for purely personal purposes, without paying royalties and without the consent of the author of the work. Exempted from this are reproductions of architectural works, databases, computer programs (but archive copies, \"i.e.,\" backups are allowed), and musical scores. The copying of whole books, even if done only for personal purposes, is also not a free use but is subject to the author's economic rights.\n\nQuotation is another free use. As in the Berne Convention, reproducing extracts from a legally disclosed work as a quote is allowed, but the amount copied must be more than necessary for the intended purpose (news reporting, teaching, criticism, reviews, and so on).\n\nLibraries benefit of two free use provisions. The first allows them to make archival copies of works, and the second permits them to make single reprographic copies for the personal use of their clients. Several free uses relate to news reporting. Besides the general quotation, the Russian copyright law also has a provision that allows articles on current issues of economy, politics, social matters, or religion that have been published in newspapers or magazines to be freely reproduced by other newspapers.\n\nAnother free use concerns the freedom of panorama: works of the visual arts, photography, or architecture that are permanently installed in publicly accessible places (which includes museums or exhibition halls) may be reproduced if the work is not the main subject of the reproduction and if the reproduction is used only non-commercially.\n\nThe neighbouring rights, introduced for the first time in the 1991 Fundamentals, were much expanded and clarified in the 1993 copyright law, following the provisions of the Rome Convention and in some cases also the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT). The law covers performances, phonograms, and broadcasts (including cable broadcasts). Neighbouring rights are, like the copyrights, automatic and not subject to formalities except the observance of any rights of the authors (or performers) of the works performed, recorded, or broadcast.\n\nPerformers are granted the exclusive rights to their performance, including a right to remuneration for any uses of a performance or a recording thereof. Besides the right to perform a performance and to deny others to perform it, these exclusive rights cover also the live broadcasting of a performance, and the video or audio recording of a previously unfixed performance. As in article 7(1)(c) of the Rome Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting Organisations, performers' rights also cover the reproduction of non-authorized recordings, and also the reproduction of recordings for purposes other than those agreed upon, including the broadcast of a recording made for non-commercial purposes only. For broadcasts of records made for commercial purposes, the performers, together with the phonogram producer, have only a remuneration right on this secondary use of phonograms.\n\nPhonogram producers have exclusive rights on the use of their phonograms, again including a right to remuneration. Their exclusive rights cover the reproduction of the phonogram, the right to distribute the phonogram by sale or rental, and the right to import copies of the phonogram. The distribution right extends only to the first sale of a copy. The law does not recognize a non-commercial public lending right on phonograms.\n\nBoth artists and phonogram producers have a right to remuneration for secondary uses of a phonogram made for commercial purposes, such as public performance or terrestrial transmission of the recording. A collecting society shall collect the royalties for these uses and distributes them equally amongst the performers and phonogram producers.\n\nThe 1993 copyright law reaffirmed the prolonged copyright term of generally 50 years from the 1991 Fundamentals, applicable to all kinds of works. Works of known authors were copyrighted until 50 years after the author's death (50 years \"p.m.a.\"). Anonymous or pseudonymous works were copyrighted until fifty years after the first disclosure, unless the identity of the author became known during that time and the term of 50 years \"p.m.a.\" thus applied. For works with several authors, the copyright term was calculated from the death of the longest-living of the co-authors. For authors who had worked during or fought in the Great Patriotic War, the duration of copyrights was extended by four years. For posthumously published works, copyrights were defined to last until fifty years after the publication, and for posthumously rehabilitated authors, the fifty-year term began running at the date of the rehabilitation. All terms were to be calculated from January 1 following the date the fact occurred that caused the term to begin running. The moral rights to authorship, name, and integrity of the work were defined to be perpetual.\n\nConcerning the neighbouring rights, the term of protection was fifty years since the original performance or broadcast. For phonograms, the term was fifty years since the first publication, or fifty years since the fixation of the phonogram if not published within that time. Similar rules as for copyright concerning posthumously published works or authors who had lived during the Great Patriotic War or who were posthumously rehabilitated existed also for the neighbouring rights.\n\nIn 2004, the 50-year term was extended to 70 years for all works still copyrighted.\n\nThe copyright law of 1993 also contained, similar to other European copyright laws, contract provisions regulating the transfer of copyrights. Contracts have to be in writing, except for contracts about the use of a work in a periodical, which may be concluded orally. Shrink-wrap licenses for software are allowed. The law distinguishes between exclusive and non-exclusive transfers of rights. Only patrimonial rights can be transferred, but not moral rights, the resale right, or the right to remuneration for home-copying. In any contract, only those rights explicitly mentioned are transferred, and a transfer is only considered exclusive if the contract explicitly says so. Any contract must specify for which uses the rights on a work are transferred, for which term this transfer is valid, for which territory it applies, and it must define the remuneration the author receives. If no term is specified, an author may revoke the contract after five years with six months notice. If the territory in unspecified, the contract applies only to the territory of the Russian Federation. The remuneration must in general be given as a percentage of the gross income (sale price) generated by the use of the work, if the contract does not contain a remuneration clause, government-defined minimum schedules apply. The law prohibits the transfer of rights on future works or for future methods of exploitations. Unless the contract explicitly includes a sub-licensing permission, a licensee may not transfer some or all of the licensed rights to a third party.\n\nThe implementation act for the new copyright law, law no. 5352-1 of July 9, 1993, stated that the copyright provisions from the 1991 Fundamentals were invalidated. It also stated that the new copyright law applied to all works on which the 50-year term for copyrights and neighbouring rights had not yet elapsed in 1993. Subsequently, a discussion amongst copyright specialists erupted about the precise meaning of this.\n\nMany Russian scholars agreed that this provision from the implementation act made the law apply retroactively, restoring copyrights on Soviet works on which the much shorter copyright terms from Soviet times had already expired. This also applied to neighbouring rights on performances, phonograms, and broadcasts. Gavrilov presented a dissenting opinion, stating that while this might have been the intention, the wording did not actually have that effect. Elst argued that the 1993 law would have been inconsistent and contain several meaningless provisions if it were not retroactive. In the United States, the general consensus was that the Russian 1993 law was retroactive. In a ruling in 2006, the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation confirmed the retroactivity of the 1993 law, explaining that it placed even works under copyright again if their old, Soviet 25-year term had already expired.\n\nUnder the 1993 copyright law, all Russian or Soviet works from the RSFSR published in 1943 or later, as well as works of authors who died in 1943 or later, became thus copyrighted in Russia in 1993. Because of the term extension of four years for authors who had lived during the Great Patriotic War, even some earlier works became subject to copyright. In the case of works formerly copyrighted under Soviet law, this amounted to a restoration of copyright; for the neighbouring rights, which hadn't existed in Soviet times, the law granted those rights retroactively. The 1993 copyright law thus rendered the old Soviet legislation largely obsolete in Russia; the former laws remained applicable only to copyright violations that had occurred before August 3, 1993.\n\nExamples of works that became copyrighted again in 1993 include the works of Boris Pilniak (executed in 1938, rehabilitated in 1957), Isaac Babel (executed 1940, rehabilitated 1954), or also Osip Mandelstam (died 1938, rehabilitated 1956/1987). Other authors on whose works copyright was restored were Anna Akhmatova (died 1966), Vera Mukhina (died 1953, sculptor of the statue \"Worker and Kolkhoz Woman\"), Aleksey Shchusev (died 1949, architect of the Lenin Mausoleum), Aleksey Tolstoy (died 1945), and many others. An extreme example is Mikhail Bulgakov's \"The Master and Margarita\": the work was first published posthumously in 1966. At that time, the Soviet copyright term of then 15 years \"p.m.a.\" had already expired as Bulgakov had died in 1940. The new Russian copyright law from 1993 placed this work under copyright again, because the 50-year term was calculated from 1966 on.\n\nOn July 19, 1995, Federal Law 110-FL changed the copyright law, strengthening the measures for protecting copyrights against infringements. Law 110-FL also made corresponding amendments in the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation and in related laws.\n\nGovernmental decree no. 524 of May 29, 1998, which was published on June 16, 1998, clarified that for movies created before August 3, 1992, the film studios were no longer considered the authors, as had been the case under the old Soviet law. Instead, the authors of these cinematographic works were the natural persons identified in the 1993 law as such. The decree explicitly declared that these authors were entitled to receive royalties for uses of these films (broadcast, whether by cable or wireless, reproduction, distribution (including rental), and showing to the public) and defined a remuneration schedule expressed in percentages of the income generated by the use of the works. The decree also clarified that the copyright on such Soviet films was subject to the rules of the 1993 law: the authors were the initial rights holders, and there was a presumption of a transfer of rights to the studios unless there existed an agreement to the contrary. (See also \"Subjects of copyright\" above.)\n\nOn August 8, 2004, the copyright law of Russia was amended by federal law no. 72-FL, by which the general copyright term was extended from 50 to 70 years. This term extension applied only to works that were still copyrighted in Russia in 2004.\n\nThe same law also modified the provisions on the copyright of foreign works. It added an article 5(4) to the law that defined that a foreign work was eligible to copyright in Russia if its copyright had not expired in the source country and it had not fallen into the public domain in Russia through the expiry of its copyright term. Previously, foreign works published before May 27, 1973, when the USSR had joined the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC), had not been copyrighted at all in the Soviet Union or in Russia, even after Russia had joined the Berne Convention in 1995. When Russia had signed the Berne Convention, it had made a reservation regarding article 18 of the Berne Convention by stating that it would not consider the Berne Convention applicable to any works in the public domain in Russia. Foreign pre-1973 works thus remained uncopyrighted in Russia, although they should have become subject to copyright according to article 18(2) of the Berne Convention because that article only exempted works that once \"were\" copyrighted, but on which that copyright already had expired, which didn't apply to pre-1973 foreign works in Russia. Russia faced severe criticism for this, especially from Western countries. The new article 5(4) of the Russian copyright law was supposed to resolve the situation by restoring copyright on such foreign works and making Russia's copyright law fully compliant with the Berne Convention. Nevertheless, the common practice in Russia did not change; pre-1973 foreign works were still commonly considered to be uncopyrighted in Russia due to this reservation.\n\nOther provisions of law 72-FL amended the 1993 copyright law of Russia in several areas, especially concerning neighbouring rights, to make the legislation compliant with the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.\n\nSince its foundation as an independent successor state of the former Soviet Union, the Russian Federation had been engaged in a large legislative project of developing a new Civil Code. Part I of this new Civil Code of the Russian Federation was signed into law on November 30, 1994, by President Boris Yeltsin and became effective on January 1, 1995. In article 2, it situates the copyright law within the Civil law. Copyright legislation was originally planned to be included in part III of this new Civil Code. Several drafts for new chapters on copyrights were prepared, but the matter proved so difficult that part III of the Civil Code was delayed several times. It was finally adopted on November 26, 2001 without the chapter on intellectual property, which was postponed to part IV.\n\nPart IV of the Civil Code took several years to work out and was submitted to the State Duma in July 2006. The draft of the new intellectual property legislation was heavily criticized for being too unclear and for conflicting with Russia's international obligations, and also for introducing several untested novelties. In the following months, about 500 changes were made to the draft, before it passed its final reading in the Duma on November 24, 2006. After it had also passed through the Federation Council, part IV of the new Russian Civil Code, containing articles 1225 to 1551, was signed into law as Federal Law no. 230-FL by Vladimir Putin on December 18, 2006. The implementation act (Federal Law no. 231-FL) was signed on the same day; it declared part IV of the Civil Code to enter in force on January 1, 2008 with the effect of invalidating and replacing all previous intellectual property legislation.\n\nPart IV of the Civil Code was a comprehensive intellectual property legislation. It contained the copyright law proper in chapters 70 (authors' rights) and 71 (neighbouring rights); chapter 69 contained general provisions also applicable to copyright. Other chapters dealt with patent law (chapter 72), the protection of breeders' rights (ch. 73), of integrated circuits (mask works; ch. 74), of trade secrets (know-how; ch. 75), and also of trade marks, brands, and geographical indications (ch. 76). Chapter 77 detailed rules for technological applications, in particular those developed on a federal budget. A provision for the protection of domain names was removed from the draft before it was adopted.\n\nAlthough the new intellectual property legislation was a complete rewrite from scratch and was structured quite differently than the previous 1993 Copyright Act, there were actually only minor changes in substance concerning copyright proper in the new legislation. With the exception of the Implementation Act discussed below, most changes were clarifications of omissions or of disputed points in the 1993 law. Among the true novelties introduced by the new legislation in the area of copyrights were a publication right (a copyright granted to the publisher of a previously unpublished, uncopyrighted work with a period of 25 years from the publication), and the definition of two kinds of contracts: one for copyright transfers, and licenses for granting usage rights. Newly, \"gratis\" licences were explicitly allowed (article 1235). A subtle change concerned the calculation of the copyright term for posthumously published works, which began newly from the \"disclosure\" instead of from the \"publication\". (See above for the difference.) For a work that was disclosed during the author's lifetime, the copyright term of 70 years thus runs from the year the author died (or was rehabilitated, if the rehabilitation was posthumous), even if the work is published only later. The new legislation also no longer contained a provision for a \"domaine publique payant\" as the 1993 Copyright Act did in its article 28(3).\n\nThe Implementation Act 231-FL made the new legislation applicable also to legal relations from before the coming in force of the new law, as far as new rights granted by the new law were concerned (retroactivity). In article 5 of the implementation act, the new law was made applicable to all new works, as well as to new rights that arose on pre-existing works. Existing rights on already existing works were henceforth governed by the rules of the new law, but initial authorship was to be determined by the laws in effect at the time a work was created. Article 6 of the implementation act specified that the 70-year copyright term was applicable in all cases where the old 50-year copyright term had not yet expired by January 1, 1993, and to all cases from before August 3, 1993 where a legal entity was the copyright holder - this applies to \"whole works\" in the form of cinematographic, television, radio works, as well as print periodicals and compilations, which were created by a state corporation, but individual authors such as script writers, artists, composers etc. retain copyright for their respective parts of the work. In this latter case, the copyright was to expire 70 years after the work was first lawfully disclosed, or 70 years after the creation of the work, if the work was undisclosed. Previously, the 70-year copyright term had applied only to works whose 50-year term had not yet expired in 2004, and thus the new Part IV of the Civil Code removed a number of works from the public domain, namely all those where the 50-year term had expired in the years 1994-2003: these became copyrighted again (with a 70-year term) under the new intellectual property legislation.\n\nRussia had committed in a trade agreement with the U.S. in November 2006 to ensure that new legislation, including part IV of the Civil Code, would be fully TRIPS compliant, even if such legislation was passed before an eventual accession of Russia to the WTO. After part IV of the Civil Code had entered in force on January 1, 2008, the Russian Federation also acceded on November 5, 2008, to the WIPO Copyright Treaty and to the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (entry in force of both accessions on February 5, 2009). On August 22, 2012, the Russian Federation also became a member of the World Trade Organization.\n\n\nMain source:\n\n\nOther sources:\n\n\nLaws:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54068391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54068391", "title": "Data localization", "text": "Data localization\n\nData localization or data residency law requires data about a nations' citizens or residents be collected, processed, and/or stored inside the country, often before being transferred internationally, and usually transferred only after meeting local privacy or data protection laws, such as giving the user notice of how the information will be used and obtaining their consent.\n\nData localization builds upon the concept of data sovereignty that regulates certain data types by the laws applicable to the data subject or processor. While data sovereignty may require that records about a nation's citizens or residents follow its personal or financial data processing laws, data localization goes a step further in requiring that initial collection, processing, and storage occur first within the national boundaries. In some cases, data about a nation's citizens or residents must also be deleted from foreign systems before being removed from systems in the data subject's nation.\n\nThe push for data localization greatly increased after revelations by Edward Snowden regarding United States counter-terrorism surveillance programs in 2013. Since then, various governments in Europe and around the world have expressed the desire to be able to control the flow of residents' data through technology. Some governments are accused of and some openly admit to using data localization laws as a way to surveil their own populaces or to boost local economic activity.\n\nTechnology companies and multinational organizations often oppose data localization laws because they impact efficiencies gained by regional aggregation of data centers and unification of services across national boundaries. Some vendors, such as Microsoft, have used data storage locale controls as a differentiating feature in their cloud services.\n\nWhile the Trans-Pacific Partnership included language that would have prohibited data localization restrictions among participants, the treaty was abandoned and never took effect.\n\nAfter Germany and France either passed or nearly passed data localization laws, the European Union was considering restrictions on data localization laws in 2017. Data localization laws are often seen as protectionist and would thus violate European Union competition law.\n\n\nMost nations restrict foreign transfer of information that they consider related to national security, such as military technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "15464026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15464026", "title": "Design around", "text": "Design around\n\nIn the field of patents, the phrase \"to design around\" means to invent an alternative to a patented invention that does not infringe the patent’s claims. The phrase can also refer to the invention itself.\n\nDesign-arounds are considered to be one of the benefits of patent law. By providing monopoly rights to inventors in exchange for disclosing how to make and use their inventions, others are given both the information and incentive to invent competitive alternatives that design around the original patent. In the field of vaccines, for example, design-arounds are considered fairly easy. It is often possible to use the original patent as a guide for developing an alternative that does not infringe the original patent.\n\nDesign-arounds can be a defense against patent trolls. The amount of license fee that a patent troll can demand is limited by the alternative of the cost of designing around the troll's patent(s).\n\nIn order to defend against design-arounds, inventors often develop a large portfolio of interlocking patents, sometimes called a patent thicket. Thus a competitor will have to design around a large number of patents.\n\n"}
{"id": "4514687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4514687", "title": "E-participation", "text": "E-participation\n\ne-participation (\"also written\" eParticipation \"and\" e-Participation) is the term referring to \"ICT-supported participation in processes involved in government and governance\". Processes may concern administration, service delivery, decision making and policy making. E-participation is hence closely related to e-government and e-governance participation. The need for the term has emerged as citizen interests have received less attention than those of the service providers in e-government development. It also emerged as the need to distinguish between the roles of citizen and customer has become more pressing.\n\nA more detailed definition sees e-participation as \"the use of information and communication technologies to broaden and deepen political participation by enabling citizens to connect with one another and with their elected representatives\". This definition includes all stakeholders in democratic decision-making processes and not only citizen related top-down government initiatives. So e-participation can be seen as part of e-democracy, the use of ICT by governments in general used by elected officials, media, political parties and interest groups, civil society organizations, international governmental organizations, or citizens/voters within any of the political processes of states/regions, nations, and local and global communities.\n\nThe complexity of e-participation processes results from the large number of different participation areas, involved stakeholders, levels of engagement, and stages in policy making. .\n\nThe term emanated in the early 2000s and draws generally on three developments.\n\n\nThe term 'participation' means taking part in joint activities for the purpose of reaching a common goal. This encompasses both trivial situations in which participation mainly has a technical meaning, ”doing things together”. For example, a football team needs 11 players, and dancing often requires two or more people acting in a coordinated manner. But participation, even in trivial situations, also has a goal-oriented aspect which means decision making and control are involved. Participation in political science and theory of management refers to direct public participation in political, economical or management decisions. The two are not completely separated but belong on a spectrum of complexity and context. When participation becomes complicated, decision making becomes necessary. Hence, any participatory process is potentially important for the rule system governing the activities. In terms of points 2 and 3 above, this means that when service processes become complex, the implementation of them will not be in all details based on political decisions but also on what is found to be practical.\n\nInstead of taking in and accepting knowledge as is disseminated by the media and government, by participating, one becomes an active citizen and further contributes to a democratic society. When such practical doings become implemented in government (e)service systems, they will affect decision making, as many changes will later be hard to make simply because existing procedures are implemented in ICT systems and government agencies’ procedures. There are many theories dealing with institutionalization, for example structuration theory, institutional theory, and actor-network theory. These theories all, in different ways, deal with how \"ways of doing things\" become established or rejected, and how those that become established increasingly affect the ways we \"normally\" do things.\n\nA number of tools and models have emerged as part of Web 2.0 that can be used or inspire the design of architecture for e-participation. In particular, \"the emergence of online communities oriented toward the creation of useful products suggests that it may be possible to design socially mediating technology that support public-government collaborations\" .\n\n\n\n\nTo demonstrate e-participation at work, one can turn to one of its types - crowdsourcing. This is generally defined as the enlisting of a group of humans to solve problems via the World Wide Web. The idea is that this platform is able to collect human resources from the most unlikely and remotest places, contributing to the general store of intellectual capital. Crowdsourcing can be applied in different stages of the policy-making process and these could transpire on the information, consultation, and active participation levels. At the information level, there is a one-way relationship, wherein the participants receive information from the government. The consultation process entails a two-way interaction where citizens already provide their inputs, feedback, and reactions. Finally, active participation can refer to the deeper participatory involvement where citizens directly contribute in the formulation of policy content. This level of e-participation is increasingly being practiced through tools such as online petition, e-referendum, e-panels, citizen e-juries, and participatory GIS, among others.\n\neParticipation is the Preparatory Action lasts for three years (2006–2008). The EU is taking the lead in using online tools to improve the legislative process for its citizens. eParticipation which launched on January 1, 2007 will run as a series of linked projects which each contribute to a greater awareness and involvement by citizens in the legislation process from initial drafting to implementation at a regional and local level.\n\nThe individual projects will concentrate on ensuring that the legislative language and process is more transparent, understandable and accessible to citizens. In addition the projects emphasis on the communication of legislation will be used to enhance and grow citizens' involvement and contribution in the process of creating and implementing the legislation.\n\nSo far, 21 projects have been funded. The European Parliament, national parliaments and local and regional authorities are actively involved. State-of-the-art ICT tools are being tested to facilitate the writing of legal texts, including translation into different languages, and the drafting of amendments as well as making the texts easier for non-specialists to find and understand. New digital technologies are also being used to give citizens easier access to information and more opportunity to influence decisions that affect their lives. A report , which was published as a MOMENTUM white paper, highlights the major facts and figures of those projects while providing some initial policy recommendations for future use.\n\nThe European Commission has now launched a number of actions aiming at further advancing the work of supporting eParticipation.\n\nExamples:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43047", "title": "Edwards v. Aguillard", "text": "Edwards v. Aguillard\n\nEdwards v. Aguillard, 482 U.S. 578 (1987), was a United States Supreme Court case concerning the constitutionality of teaching creationism. The Court considered a Louisiana law requiring that where evolutionary science was taught in public schools, creation science must also be taught. The Court ruled that this law violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment because the law was specifically intended to advance a particular religion. It also held that \"teaching a variety of scientific theories about the origins of humankind to school children might be validly done with the clear secular intent of enhancing the effectiveness of science instruction.\" \n\nIn support of Aguillard, 72 Nobel Prize-winning scientists, 17 state academies of science, and seven other scientific organizations filed amicus briefs that described creation science as being composed of religious tenets.\n\nModern American creationism arose from the theological split over modernist higher criticism and its rejection by the fundamentalist Christian movement, which promoted Biblical literalism and, post 1920, took up the anti-evolution cause led by William Jennings Bryan. The teaching of evolution had become a common part of the public school curriculum, but his campaign was based on the idea that \"Darwinism\" had caused German militarism and was a threat to traditional religion and morality. Several states passed legislation to ban or restrict the teaching of evolution. The Tennessee Butler Act was tested in the Scopes Trial of 1925, and continued in effect with the result that evolution was not taught in many schools.\n\nWhen the United States sought to catch up in science during the 1960s with new teaching standards, which reintroduced evolution, the creation science movement arose, presenting what was claimed to be scientific evidence supporting young Earth creationism. Attempts were made to reintroduce legal bans, but the Supreme Court ruled that bans on teaching evolutionary biology are unconstitutional as they violate the establishment clause of the United States Constitution, which forbids the government from advancing a particular religion.\n\nIn the early 1980s, several states attempted to introduce creationism alongside the teaching of evolution, and the Louisiana legislature passed a law, authored by State Senator Bill P. Keith of Caddo Parish, entitled the \"Balanced Treatment for Creation-Science and Evolution-Science Act.\" The Act did not require teaching either creationism or evolution, but did require that, if evolutionary science was taught, then \"creation science\" must be taught as well. Creationists lobbied aggressively for the law. The stated purpose of the Act was to protect \"academic freedom.\" Counsel for the state later admitted at the Supreme Court oral argument that the \"legislature may not [have] used the term 'academic freedom' in the correct legal sense. They might have <nowiki>[had]</nowiki> in mind, instead, a basic concept of fairness; teaching all the evidence.\" Governor David C. Treen signed the bill into law in 1981.\n\nThe District Court and Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against Louisiana, finding that its actual purpose in enacting the statute was to promote the religious doctrine of \"creation science\". An Arkansas District Court previously held in a 1982 decision in \"McLean v. Arkansas\" that a similar \"balanced treatment\" statute violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. Arkansas did not appeal the loss. Creationists believed the statute at issue in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" had a better chance of passing constitutional muster, and so Louisiana appealed its loss in the trial and appellate courts to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn June 19, 1987 the Supreme Court, in a seven-to-two majority opinion written by Justice William J. Brennan, ruled that the Act constituted an unconstitutional infringement on the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, based on the three-pronged \"Lemon\" test, which is:\n\nThe Supreme Court held that the Act is facially invalid as violative of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, because it lacks a clear secular purpose (first part of the above \"Lemon\" test), since (a) the Act does not further its stated secular purpose of \"protecting academic freedom\", and (b) the Act impermissibly endorses religion by advancing the religious belief that a supernatural being created humankind.\n\nHowever, it did note that alternative scientific theories could be taught:\n\nThe Court found that, although the Louisiana legislature had stated that its purpose was to \"protect academic freedom\", that purpose was dubious because the Act gave Louisiana teachers no freedom they did not already possess and instead limited their ability to determine what scientific principles should be taught. Because it was unconvinced by the state's proffered secular purpose, the Court went on to find that the legislature had a \"preeminent religious purpose in enacting this statute\".\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia, joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, dissented, accepting the Act's stated purpose of \"protecting academic freedom\" as a sincere and legitimate secular purpose. They interpreted the term \"academic freedom\" to refer to \"students' freedom from indoctrination\", in this case their freedom \"to decide for themselves how life began, based upon a fair and balanced presentation of the scientific evidence\". However, they also criticized the first prong of the Lemon test, noting that \"to look for the sole purpose of even a single legislator is probably to look for something that does not exist\".\n\nThe ruling was one in a series of developments addressing issues related to the American creationist movement and the separation of church and state. The scope of the ruling affected public schools and did not include independent schools, home schools, Sunday schools and Christian schools, which remained free to teach creationism.\n\nDuring the case, creationists worked on a creationist biology textbook, with the hope of a huge market if the appeal went their way. Drafts were given various titles, including \"Biology and Creation\". After the \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" ruling, the authors changed the terms \"creation\" and \"creationists\" in the text to \"intelligent design\" and \"design proponents\", and the book was published as \"Of Pandas and People\". This supplementary textbook for school use attacked evolutionary biology without mentioning the identity of the supposed \"intelligent designer\". Promotion of intelligent design creationism by the intelligent design movement eventually led to the textbook's use in a school district being challenged in another court case. \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" went to trial on 26 September 2005, and was decided in U.S. District Court on 20 December 2005 in favor of the plaintiffs, who charged that a mandate that intelligent design be taught was an unconstitutional establishment of religion. The 139-page opinion of \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\" was hailed as a landmark decision, firmly establishing that creationism and intelligent design were religious teachings and not areas of legitimate scientific research. Because the Dover school board chose not to appeal, the case never reached a circuit court or the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nWendell Bird served as a special assistant attorney general for Louisiana in the case and later became a staff attorney for the Institute for Creation Research and Association of Christian Schools International. Bird later authored books promoting creationism and teaching it in public schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31761911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31761911", "title": "English land law", "text": "English land law\n\nEnglish land law is the law of real property in England and Wales. Because of its heavy historical and social significance, land is usually seen as the most important part of English property law. Ownership of land has its roots in the Anglo-Saxon system of Bookland and in the Anglo-Saxon multiple estate, a feudal system transformed by William the Conqueror and his influx of many new chief landlords after 1066. The modern law's sources derive from the old courts of common law and equity which includes legislation such as the Law of Property Act 1925, the Settled Land Act 1925, the Land Charges Act 1972, the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 and the Land Registration Act 2002, and the European Convention on Human Rights. At its core, English land law involves the acquisition, content and priority of rights and obligations among people with interests in land. Having a property right in land, as opposed to a contractual or some other personal right, matters because it creates privileges over other people's claims, particularly if the land is sold on, the possessor goes insolvent, or when claiming various remedies, like specific performance, in court. Capital taxation, the industrial revolution and reform of the established church has resulted in a shift from predominant ownership by the church and landed gentry (from lords of the manor to royalty) to largely agricultural, minority aristocratic ownership. This means today sites for development (land and buildings) belong to a complex web of owners able meet market demand-side forces for development, tempered by supply-side forces including the values enshrined in public planning policy to protect green spaces and promote sustainable (in terms of the economy and environment), locally diverse and socially useful development of land.\n\nThe traditional content of English land law relates to property rights that derive from common law, equity and the registration system. Ordinarily, ownership of land is acquired by a contract of sale, and to complete a purchase, the buyer must formally register their interest with HM Land Registry. Similar systems run in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Around 15 per cent of land in England and Wales remains unregistered, most of which is agricultural, has property disputes determined by the courts. Human rights, like the right to a family life and home under ECHR article 8 and the right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions, under article 1 of the First Protocol, apply for everyone. Aside from sale contracts, people may acquire interests in land through contributions to a home's purchase price, or to family life, if the courts can find evidence of a common intention or legally implied expectation, such as in marriage. The law acknowledges a \"resulting\" or \"constructive trust\" over the property, and in recognition of people's social interests in their homes; as with a lease under 7 years length, these do not need to be registered. Third, people can acquire land through proprietary estoppel. If someone is given an assurance that they will receive property, and they rely on this to their detriment, a court may acknowledge it. Fourth, adverse possession allows people who openly possess land, without formal objection by the owner for at least 12 years, to take registered title – in registered land this can no longer affect significant pieces of inhabited land. \n\nMany people can share an interest in land, with up to four registered owners, and any number of underlying owners. The freehold of all land may have one owner, a \"freeholder\" or many. It can be used in many ways. The law closely regulates how and when joint owners may sever or sell their share. Leases, and to some degree licenses, allocate the use of land to new owners for a period of time. Mortgages and other forms of security interest are usually used to give moneylenders the right to seize property in the event that the debtor does not repay a legally related loan. Easements (such as the grant of a right of way) and covenants (such as an agreement that a freeholder will prevent certain building on the land) involve rights and duties to be applied between neighbours and may or may not bind later owners (\"successors in title\").\n\nThe history of English land law can be traced into Roman times, and through the Dark Ages under Saxon monarchs where, as for most of human history, land was the dominant source of social wealth. The start of an English law of real property, however, came after the Norman Invasion of 1066, when a common law was built throughout England. The new King, William the Conqueror, started standardising England's feudal rules, and compiled a reference for all land and its value in the Domesday Book of 1086. This was used to determine taxes. Feudalism meant that all land was held by the Monarch. Estates in land were granted to lords, who in turn parcelled out property to tenants. Tenants and lords had obligations of work, military service, and payment of taxation to those up the chain, and ultimately to the Crown. Most of the peasantry were bonded to their Lords of the Manor. Villeins often owed as little as 4 days work in the year. Cottars or serfs, who may have composed as much as 45 per cent of the population in 1086, were bound by law to work on the land. They could not leave without permission of their Lords. But also, even those who were classed as free men were factually limited in their freedom, by the limited chances to acquire property. Around 1187 Ranulf de Glanvill, King Henry II's Chief Justiciar composed the first major treatise of the common law, the \"Tractatus de legibus et consuetudinibus regni Angliae\", setting out the system of writs that people used to claim rights of property, and rights against one another. Glanvill himself died in the Third Crusade, and as discontent resulting from the crusades' cost grew, English barons forced King John to sign the Magna Carta 1215. This guaranteed rights of representation to the barons, but contained very little for \"commoners\". However, a number of clauses were extracted and expanded into the Charter of the Forest 1217, which did allow people access to common land, where people could hunt and fish for food. Over the centuries, the law expanded on the extent of common ownership. The Commons Act 1236 allowed the Lord of a Manor to enclose any manorial land that had previously been common, and the Statute of Westminster 1285 formalised the system of entail so that all land could pass to the heirs of a landlord. The Statute \"Quia Emptores Terrarum\" 1290 allowed alienation of land only by substitution of the title holder, halting creation of further sub-tenants. In 1256, the second major treatise, by Henry de Bracton, \"De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliae\" set out the laws of property or \"things\", alongside laws of \"persons\" and \"actions\".\nFeudalism had not always been a part of English society, rather than being positively imposed by the monarchs prior to the Norman Invasion. However, from 1348 everything changed as the Black Death swept through Europe, killing a third of the population. People like the poet Geoffrey Chaucer had seen subservience as part of a natural social order, ordained by God. But if landowners had themselves survived the plague, the peasants' labour on the land had become very scarce. Ironically, the surviving peasants were in a greater position of economic power, in claims or bargaining for wages. Feudalism began to break down. First, serfs could go undergo \"commutation\", where the lord simply agreed to accept money rents from tenants instead of labour services. This did not mean freedom itself, but abandoning forced labour and payments in kind to landlords meant the open evidence of servility was concealed. In disputes, royal courts were increasingly bias toward declaring a peasant was free. Second, through an act of manumission lords could voluntarily grant freedom and this was increasingly done, after the plague, if the serf or a relative made a payment of money. Third, the common law stated that if a serf lived on free soil, as in a chartered town or Royal demesne land, for a year and a day, they would become free. The nobility and the King reacted to the rising bargaining power of the peasantry by fixing wages, and violently suppressing any uprisings, like the Peasants' Revolt in 1381. Yet this combination of factors, slowly but surely, meant that by 1485 just one per cent of the population were left in bondage. Around 1481, a judge of the Common Pleas named Thomas de Littleton produced the first treatise organised by subject rather than writs, on property law, the \"Treatise on Tenures\". Formal subservience was increasingly seen as a social scar. In 1523 Justice Anthony Fitzherbert wrote that the remainder of bondmen was \"the greatest inconvenience that now is suffred by the lawe.\" But if more people were formally free from a landlord, people's factual freedom was still constrained because they had no property themselves. More landlords were enclosing pastures that had been open for commoners to use, and destroying people's houses, especially for sheep farming. The crown, and Lord Chancellors like Sir Thomas More, had opposed this to some extent, with a series of Anti-Enclosure Acts from 1489. These required that any houses destroyed be rebuilt, but if not half the additional profits would go to the Crown. The Crown itself claimed an inherent right to any valuable metals found on land in 1568, and people who had less than four acres of land were prohibited from building homes by the Erection of Cottages Act 1588. The final, formal end of feudal land tenure in England came only after the English Civil War. When the monarchy was restored Parliament ensured with the Tenures Abolition Act 1660 that landlords' obligations of service and military provision were replaced by monetary payments and an annual payment financed by taxation.\nOver the same period, behind the momentous shifts in land's social significance, legal developments in the law of property revolved around the split between the courts of common law and equity. The courts of common law (the Court of Common Pleas and the Court of the King's Bench) took a strict approach to the rules of title to land, and how many people could have legal interests in land. However, the King had the power to hear petitions and overturn cases of common law. He delegated the hearing of petitions to his Lord Chancellor, whose office grew into a court. During the crusades, landowners who went to fight would transfer title to a person they trusted so that feudal services could be performed and received. But some who survived had returned only to find that the people they entrusted were refusing to transfer title back. They sought justice with the Lord Chancellor, and his Court of Chancery determined that the true \"use\" or \"benefit\" of the land did not belong to the person on the title (or the feoffee who held seisin). Unlike the common law judges, the Chancellor held the \"cestui que use\", the owner in equity, could be a different person, if this is what good conscience dictated. This recognition of a split in English law, between legal and equitable owner, between someone who controlled title and another for whose benefit the land would be used, was the beginning of trust law. It was similarly useful among Franciscan friars, who would transfer title of land to others as they were precluded from holding property by their vows of poverty. Uses or trusts were also employed to avoid the payment of feudal dues. If a person died, the law stated a landlord was entitled to money before the land passed to heir, and the whole property under the doctrine of escheat if there were no heirs. Transferring title to a group of people for common use could ensure this never happened, because if one person died he could be replaced, and it was unlikely for all to die at the same time. King Henry VIII saw that this deprived the Crown of revenue, and so in the Statute of Uses 1535 he attempted to prohibit them, stipulating all land belonged in fact to the \"cestui que use\". However, when Henry VIII was gone, the Court of Chancery held that it had no application where land was leased. Moreover, the primacy of equity over the common law was reasserted, supported by King James I in 1615, in the \"Earl of Oxford's case\". The institution of the use continued, as new sources of revenue from the mercantile exploits in the New World decreased the Crown's reliance on feudal dues. By the early 18th century, the use had formalised into a trust: where land was settled to be held by a trustee, for the benefit of another, the Courts of Chancery recognised the beneficiary as the true owner in equity.\nOver the 18th century, the law of real property mostly came to a standstill in legislation, but principles continued to develop in the courts of equity, notably under Lord Nottingham (from 1673–1682), Lord King (1725–1733), Lord Hardwicke (1737–1756), Lord Henley (1757–1766), and Lord Eldon (1801–1827). As national and global trade expanded, the power of a new monied class of business men was growing, and the economic and political importance of land was diminishing with it. The moral philosopher and father of economics, Adam Smith, reflected these changes as he argued in \"The Wealth of Nations\" that landowners position allowed them to extract rents from others in return for very little. In the 19th century, a growing liberal movement for reform produced three major results. First, there was increasing pressure to dismantle the privileges of the landed aristocracy. The most direct reform was to gradually abolition the \"strict settlement\", through the Settled Land Acts of 1882–1925. An owner of land could direct that property on his death would only pass down the line of his relations, thus preventing it being sold to anyone on the market. This also included the view that all land should be put on a register, so as to ease its ability to be marketed. The Land Transfer Act 1875 introduced a voluntary system, but it was not taken up. After the 1906 general election the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, David Lloyd George, in his People's Budget of 1909 introduced a tax on land to force it onto the market. This provoked a constitutional crisis, as the hereditary House of Lords vetoed it, forcing fresh elections. But the Liberal government was returned and it abolished the Lords right of veto in the Parliament Act 1911. By then, land registration reforms were a minor political issue and only really opposed by solicitors who earned sizeable conveyancing fees. Eventually, the Land Registration Act 1925 required any dealing with property triggered compulsory registration. Second, the Court of Chancery, though it may have mitigated the petty strictnesses of the common law of property, was seen as cumbersome and arcane. It was subjected to ridicule in books like Charles Dickens' \"Bleak House\" and his fictional case of \"Jarndyce v Jarndyce\", a Chancery matter that nobody understood and dragged on for years and years. Largely this was because there were only two judges administering equitable principles, so from 1873 to 1875, the common law and equity courts were merged into one hierarchy. Under the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1875, equitable principles would prevail in case of conflict. Third, in most counties and boroughs, the ability to vote for members of parliament had been tied to possession of property in land. From the Great Reform Act 1832, to the Reform Act 1867, and the Representation of the People Act 1918, the connection between property and the vote was gradually reduced and then abolished. Together with the Parliament Act 1911, a more democratic constitution had emerged, though it was only in 1928 that the voting age for men and women became equal and only in 1948 that the double votes and extra constituencies for graduates of English and Welsh universities were removed. By the end of the First World War, the power of the old landed aristocracy had largely been broken.\nOver the twentieth century, land law became increasingly social in character. First, from the Housing Act 1919 and the post war government's policy of building \"homes fit for heroes\" more and more houses were built, and maintained, by local governments. In private accommodation, new rights were enacted for tenants against their landlords, with some security of tenure and rent regulation, a break on unfettered \"freedom of contract\". The policy was halted by the Housing Act 1980, which sought to privatise properties by introducing a \"right to buy\" one's council home. At the same time, rights for tenants, and constraints on rental increases were reduced, albeit that tenants did retain some minima of rights, for example under the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 and the Protection from Eviction Act 1977. Second, property was increasingly used as a source of finance for business, and similarly became source of profit for banks, mortgage lenders and real estate investment trusts. This fact drove changes in the market for mortgage regulation, while the growing financial interest in land tended to conflict with family life. As the UK came closer to gender equality, women as much as men contributed to the purchase of homes, as well as contributing to raising families and children. In 1970, in \"Pettitt v Pettitt\", Lord Diplock remarked that \"the wider employment of married women in industry, commerce and the professions and the emergence of a property-owning, particularly a real-property-mortgaged-to-a-building-society-owning, democracy\" had compelled courts to acknowledge contributions to the home and family life as potentially generating proprietary interests. However, if banks sought to repossess homes from people who had defaulted on mortgage repayments, the courts were faced with a choice of whether to prefer those economic interests over social values. The membership of the United Kingdom in the European Convention on Human Rights meant that article 8, on the right to a private and family life, could change the freedom of banks or landlords to evict people, particularly where children's stability and upbringing were at stake, though by the early twenty-first century the case law had remained cautious. Third, land use in general was subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework. The old common laws between neighbours, of easements, covenants, nuisance and trespass were largely eclipsed by locally and democratically determined planning laws, environmental regulation, and a framework for use of agricultural resources.\n\nEnglish land law draws on four main sources to determine property rights: the common law and equitable principles developed by the courts, a system of land registration, a continuing system for unregistered land, and the European Convention on Human Rights. First of all, the courts of common law and equity gave people with \"property\" rights various privileges over people who acquired mere \"personal\" rights. To acquire property over land (as with any other object of value), as opposed to a contract, for example, to use it, a buyer and seller simply needed to agree that property would be passed. The law then recognised a \"property\" right with various privileges over people with purely \"personal\" claims. The best form of property would involve exclusive possession, and it usually bound anyone who attempted to interfere with an owner's use, particularly in cases of insolvency, if other people with interests in the land sold their stake to a third party, or in getting remedies to enforce one's right. Before 1925, property rights in land (unlike, for example, a company's shares) only had to be evidenced in paper title deeds. It was therefore believed that a system of land registration was desirable, so that people's rights over land would be certain, and conveyancing would be simpler and cheaper. So, the second system of land began with the Land Registration Act 1925, and the rules were recast in the Land Registration Act 2002. Instead of paper title deeds determining people's property rights in land, the entries in the registry were the source that determine people's property rights. However, many property rights were never expected to be registered, particularly the social claims that people had on family homes, or short leases. Furthermore, not all land had to be registered. Only when formal transactions with land took place did registration become a compulsory. This meant that by 2013, 88 per cent of land or 126,000 square kilometres was registered with HM Land Registry. But a third system of land regulation remained for the 12 per cent of unregistered land. Though somewhat amended by legislation, this system for determining property rights and disputes remained much like the old common law and equity. Fourth, and particularly important since the Human Rights Act 1998 allowed people to plead claims directly in the UK courts without having to wait for an appeal to Strasbourg, property rights were affected by an autonomous set of human rights under the European Convention. Not simply the common law, or land registration, but also people's right to a family life, privacy in one's home, and peaceful enjoyment of possessions, could change the outcomes of property disputes.\n\nLand law is also known as the law of real property. It relates to the acquisition, protection and conflicts of people's rights, legal and equitable, in land. This means three main things. First, \"property rights\" (in Latin, a right \"in rem\") are generally said to bind third parties, whereas personal rights (a right \"in personam\") are exercisable only against the person who owes an obligation. English law acknowledges a fixed number, or \"numerus clausus\" of property rights, which create various privileges. The main situations where this distinction matters are if a debtor to two or more creditors has gone insolvent (i.e. bankrupt), or if there is a dispute over possession of a specific thing. If a person or a business has gone insolvent, and has things in their possession which are the property of others', then those people can usually take back their property free of anyone else's claims. But if an insolvent person's creditors are merely owed personal debts, they cannot take back their money freely: any losses have to be divided among all creditors. Often, creditors can contract for a proprietary right (known as a security interest) to secure repayment of debts. This gives the same result as having another proprietary right, so the secured creditor takes priority in the insolvency queue. Secured creditors, most usually, are banks and for most people the most familiar kind of security interest is a mortgage. In this way, property rights area always \"stronger\" than personal rights, even though they may be acquired by the same means: a contract. Most of the time, property rights are also stronger than personal because English courts have been historically more willing to order specific performance as a remedy for interference with property rights. People with personal rights, such as to the performance of a contract, are presumptively entitled to money in compensation, unless damages would be an inadequate remedy. In its second main feature, English land law differs from civil law systems in the European Union, because it allows the separation of the \"beneficial\" ownership of property from legal title to property. If there is a \"trust\" of land, then trustees hold legal title, while the benefit, use and \"equitable\" title might belong to many other people. Legal title to real property can only be acquired in a limited number of formal ways, while equitable title can be recognised because of a person's contribution, or the parties' true intentions, or some other reason, if the law deems that it is fair and just (i.e. equitable) to recognise that someone else has a stake in the land.\n\nThe third main feature of the English law of real property is that \"real\" property (or \"realty\") means land, and the things that goes with it, alone. This is classified as different from movables or other types of \"personal\" property (or \"personalty\"). The distinction matters mainly to define the scope of the subject matter, because there are different registration requirements, taxes, and other regulations for land's use. The technical definition of \"land\" encompasses slightly more than in the word's common use. Under the Law of Property Act 1925, section 205(1)(ix) says land means \"land of any tenure, mines and minerals, whether or not held apart from the surface, buildings or parts of buildings (whether the division is horizontal, vertical or made in any other way) and other hereditaments; also a manor, advowson, and a rent and other incorporeal hereditaments, and an easement, right, privilege or benefit in, over, or derived from land...\" This cumbersome definition indicates two general ideas. First, land includes physical things attached to it (e.g. buildings and \"hereditaments\") and, second, intangible rights (like an easement, a right of way). Perhaps in tribute to science, legal academics describe property in land as \"four dimensional\". The two dimensional area of land surface, preferably bounded by a fence, railing, wire or hedge-and-ditch or marked by a different permanent surface, is complemented by rights over all buildings and \"fixtures\". This becomes most relevant in disputes after a contract to sell land, when a buyer alleges a thing was included in a sale, but a contract was silent on the specifics. In \"Holland v Hodgson\" Blackburn J held that looms installed in a factory formed part of the land. Objects resting on the ground, \"attached\" only by gravity, will not normally be part of the land, unless case law and the parties' conduct supports the contention of a different \"intention\". Easily removable things, like carpets and curtains, or houseboats, will not be implied into a sale of land by default. Less easily removed things, like taps and plugs, are. In the third dimension, mines and sub-surface things, belong to the surface owner, generally, down to 500 feet, the landowner has a right to the atmosphere above his land as well. Public policy sets the limit. Since the 16th century's \"Case of Mines\" the Crown has a claim to valuable minerals or natural resources that are discovered, as well as valuable treasure. And in the other direction, aircraft or satellites that are sufficiently high are not considered to trespass, or infringe an owner's right to peaceful enjoyment. The fourth dimension is time. Since 1925 English law recognises two \"estates\" in land, or kinds of ownership interest: the \"freehold\" (\"fee simple\"), which is a right to use for an unlimited time; and the \"lease\" (\"tenancy\"), which is an interest for a fixed period of time. In all situations use of the land is constrained by agreements and/or binding rights with neighbours, and the requirements of the local council and government.\n\nBecause land can serve multiple uses, for many people, and because its fixed nature means that its owner may not always be visible, a system of registration came to be seen as essential at the start of the 20th Century. From the Land Registry Act 1862 which created a body where people could voluntarily register, a succession of government reports and piecemeal reform finally culminated in a unified, compulsory registration system with the Land Registration Act 1925. Its proponents argued that a registration system would increase land's marketability, and make its transfer as fluid as the registration system of company shares. Theodore Ruoff, Chief Registrar from 1963, said the main three functions the register served was (1) to mirror ownership interests in land (2) to curtain off minor, or equitable interests that could be bypassed (or \"overreached\") in the land conveyance business, and (3) to provide insurance through Registrar funds to anyone who lost property as a result of register defects. The ideal goal was thus to ensure that a comprehensive set of people whose interests had priority in a given real estate would be reflected on the register. With the Land Registration Act 2002, which recast the old law, the Registry has focused on \"e-conveyancing\". Under sections 91 to 95, electronic registration counts as deeds, and aims to replace the paper filing for the 21st century.\nHowever, reflecting the social use of land, the priority system of land registration and the Register's record of all interests in land has made significant exceptions for informal methods of acquiring rights, and especially equitable interests, in land. Under the Land Registration Act 2002 sections 27 to 30, an interest in land that is registered (for instance, freehold ownership, a long lease, or a mortgage) will take priority to all other interests that come later, or are not entered on the register. The first registered interest in time prevails. Yet under LRA 2002 Schedule 3, a series of exceptions, or \"overriding interests\" are listed. Under Schedule 3, paragraph 1, any lease that is less than seven years need not be registered, and will still bind other parties. The reason is to strike a balance between an owner who may well keep hold of land for a long period, and a person who may be renting as a home. Most socially significant, under Schedule 3, paragraph 2 (formerly Land Registration Act 1925 s 70(1)(g)), the interest of a person who is in \"actual occupation\" need not be entered on the register, but will still bind later registered interests. This rule was said to be necessary to prevent the social right to a home being \"lost in the welter of registration\". It is most used in favour of people, typically a spouse in a family home whose name is not on the title deeds, who have not registered an interest because the law has recognised they have acquired a right, not through a formal, or express contract, or gift – but by their contributions, or their reliance on another person's assurances. If such a person is in \"actual occupation\", then their informally acquired interest (usually through \"constructive trust\", which recognises their contributions of money or work toward family life) will bind parties who acquire interests later on.\nIn a leading case, \"Williams & Glyn's Bank v Boland\" Mr Boland had had trouble repaying his bank for a loan he used on his building company. The loan was secured on his Beddington house, where he lived with Mrs Boland. However, Mrs Boland had not consented to the mortgage agreement. She was not registered on the home's title deeds, but she had made significant financial contributions to the home. Despite Templeman J at first instance saying Mrs Boland only occupied the house through her husband, the Court of Appeal, and the House of Lords both agreed that Mrs Boland actually did occupy her home, and that her interest bound the bank. Later cases have shown the test for actual occupation must be purposively, and liberally determined, according to the claimant's social circumstance. So in \"Chhokar v Chhokar\" a lady who had been beaten and attacked by her estranged husband's friends to scare her from her Southall home, and who was at the time of her home being registered in hospital having Mr Chhokar's child, was still in actual occupation. This meant that because she had contributed to the home's purchase price, she was entitled to stay. Her interest bound, and took priority to, later registered interests. Under LRA 2002 Schedule 3, paragraph 2, only if a person is asked about their interest, and they say nothing, or if it is not obvious on a reasonably careful inspection, would a person in actual occupation lose to a registered party. It has also been held that someone who occupies a house and has an interest in the home might have impliedly consented to taking subject to another party's later interest. In both \"Bristol & West Building Society v Henning\" and \"Abbey National Building Society v Cann\" a couple purchased a home with the assistance of a loan from a building society, which was secured by mortgage on the property. In both cases the court held that because the buyers could not have got the house without the loan, there had been tacit consent by all to the bank taking priority, and no gap in time before registration when the spouse could have been said to be in prior actual occupancy.\n\nOriginally to facilitate transfers of land, the Law of Property Act 1925 sections 2 and 27 make provision so that people with equitable interests in land may not assert them against purchasers of the land if there are two trustees. If a person has an equitable interest in a property, the law allows this interest to be detached from the property, or \"overreached\" and reattached to money given in exchange for land, so long as the exchange took place by at least two trustees. This was, however, applied not for the purpose of trading property by professional trustees, but against homeowners in \"City of London Building Society v Flegg\". Here two parents, Mr and Mrs Flegg, had given their home to their children, who in turn mortgaged the property and defaulted on the loan. The House of Lords held that because the words of the statute were fulfilled, and the purchase money for the interest in the property (i.e. the loan that the children squandered) had been paid to two trustees, the Fleggs had to give up possession. Lastly, it is possible to lose an interest in land, even if registered, through adverse possession by another person after 12 years under the Limitation Act 1980 sections 15 to 17.\n\nIn 2013, because registration of title was never made compulsory \"per se\", 18 per cent of land in England and Wales remained unregistered. The absence of compulsion was probably a result of political compromise, while a powerful landed aristocracy remained heavily opposed to any transparency over the extent of their wealth. Only if a transaction identified in the Land Registration Act 2002 section 4 took place, as under the LRA 1925, would the land be compulsorily entered on the register. This included any sale, mortgage, or lease over seven years. However it still does not include a transfer by operation of law, and that means land can be inherited, or kept within the family, and never need be registered unless the Lord Chancellor amends section 4 by order. It means that to find the \"root of title\" to unregistered property, and the various rights that others might have such as easements or covenants, it is necessary to seek out the relevant bundle of deeds, going back at least 15 years. If unregistered property is being sold on, registration would be triggered, but a final search of title deeds would still be necessary. The first basic principle was that all legal property rights bound everyone, whether or not anybody knew about them. These would usually be in the deeds that were kept, though small interests like a lease of under three years would not because of its exemption from formality, as with registered land. The second principle was that equitable proprietary rights bound everyone except a \"bona fide\" purchaser of the legal estate without any notice of the equitable interest (also known as Equity's Darling). Being a \"bona fide\" purchaser was an \"absolute, unqualified, unanswerable defence\", so that the person with an equitable interest would only have an enforceable right against the traceable assets received in return for the land. Being a purchaser for value meant not receiving the property as a gift, and \"bona fide\" meant acting in good faith. In turn, good faith largely meant the same thing as buying the land without having any actual notice, and it not being reasonable to have known, about another person's equitable interest. According to the Law of Property Act 1925 section 199, and cases through the courts, buyers of land would be bound by prior equitable interests if the interest \"would have come to his knowledge if such inquiries and inspections had been made as ought reasonably to have been made\". So for example, in \"Kingsnorth Finance Co Ltd v Tizard\", it was held that clothes of a divorcee being present in a home bound a bank's agent who inspected a property with notice of her equitable interest. The general scheme of the law was to do everything possible to ensure that people were not be deprived of their stakes in their homes without their fully informed and true consent, yet it stopped short of simply determining that equitable rights were always binding.\nOn top of these basic rules, the Land Charges Act 1972, following its 1925 predecessor, required that some kinds of charges had to be entered on another special register of charges for unregistered land. According to section 2, a puisne mortgage (a second or third mortgage created after a property is already mortgaged) had to be registered before it would be binding, even though it had previously counted as a legal property right. The other important kinds of charge that had to be registered are restrictive covenants and equitable easements, a right from the Family Law Act 1996 Part IV, and an \"estate contract\" (i.e. either a future right to buy a property, or an option to buy). Without registration, those charges would be void, but once registered those charges would bind everyone. The registration would go against the name of the title holder, although this was sometimes prone to confusing if people occasionally used different names (e.g. Francis or Frank). If an official search of the register did not reveal any titles, then the purchaser would gain good legal rights. One glaring injustice, however, was that the House of Lords held the registration rules to be strict. In \"Midland Bank Trust Co Ltd v Green\", Walter Green gave his son, Geoffrey an option to buy the property, but did not register it. Then Walter changed his mind, and knowing that Geoffrey had not registered this estate contract, he transferred the property to his wife, Evelyne, for £500 to defeat the agreement. Although the purchaser had actual notice of Geoffrey's equitable interest, it did not matter because it was not registered. In another example, it was held in \"Lloyds Bank v Carrick\" that a person in actual occupation of a home, who had an unregistered right to buy the home, could not claim an over-riding interest (as would have been possible in registered land) because the only source of the interest was the estate contract, and without registration this was void. The anomalies of the system were always acknowledged, and so it was simply hoped that unregistered land would dwindle away. The solution, perhaps simpler, of passing legislation requiring everything was compulsorily registered was not yet taken.\n\nAlthough the UK constitutional law formally follows the idea of Parliamentary sovereignty, following the Second World War the UK joined the United Nations, it subscribed to the European Convention on Human Rights (which was largely written by UK civil servants), and in 1972 it joined the European Union. In all three international organisations, the constitutional traditions of other member states gave courts a greater role in adjudicating on whether legislation complied with human rights. With the Human Rights Act 1998, the UK resolved to give its courts power to review legislation's compliance with the ECHR jurisprudence, primarily as a way of saving litigants the cost of exhausting the domestic court system and then appealing to Strasbourg. The ECHR was relevant for land law mostly because of the right to a privacy and family life under ECHR article 8, and the right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions under ECHR Protocol 1, article 1 are concerned. In the first cases under ECHR article 8, challenges were brought by tenants who had been evicted from their homes by local authorities. Against the arguments of claimants that their evictions were disproportionate responses and infringed their rights to a family or home life, the UK courts initially denied that UK property legislation would ever be incompatible with the Convention. However, in \"Manchester CC v Pinnock\", after a number of cases in the European Court of Human Rights suggested otherwise, the UK Supreme Court accepted that courts must have the inherent jurisdiction to assess whether an infringement of one's right to a home life if someone is evicted is proportionate and justifiable. On the case's facts, it was held that Mr Pinnock's eviction for the anti-social behaviour of his sons was proportionate. Although he was a pensioner, the complaints had been serious and long lasting. The cases under Protocol 1, article 1, primarily turn on the question of compulsory acquisition of property by the government. The Strasbourg courts distinguish between deprivation of property by actual acquisition, and limitation of the use of land by an owner through regulation, for instance of the environment.\n\nWhile the establishment of the land law in England happened by invasion, conquest, enclosure and force, over the 20th century as a whole there was an increasing distribution of property ownership. The great driver for increasing distribution of land, and the British realisation of the right to housing, was public regulation of rental prices (so being a landlord was less profitable than selling) and publicly financed construction of housing. Otherwise there have been four other methods for acquiring rights in land, which operate within the paradigm of markets and private property. The first is through a consent based obligation. This could be through a gift, or similarly the settlement of a trust, so that a trustee holds property for the benefit of another. Most normally land will be transferred through an agreement by contract. In all cases, to complete a transfer, a person's interest should be registered to be fully protected. However, the law recognises people's interests in land even though they have not been acquired in a formal way. The second main way to acquire rights in land is through resulting or constructive trust, recognised by the court. In the context of land, and particularly family homes, this will usually be to acknowledge the contribution someone has made to a home, financial or otherwise. Third, the courts acknowledge people have acquired land when they have been given an assurance, on which they have reasonably placed reliance, and the result would be detrimental if their interests were not recognised. This proprietary estoppel claim is a way for people's interests to gain recognition although their dealing's with a land owner have fallen short of contract. Fourth, and the furthest departure from land acquired by a contract, English law has always recognised a claim by people who have inhabited land for long enough to have legally acquired their rights. The fact of possession, even if adverse to a previous owner, matures after 12 years into a sound legal right.\n\nFour main ways of acquiring land are through a gift, trust, succession and by contract, all of which involve express or at least presumed consent. In the case of an ordinary gift during a person's life, the Law of Property Act 1925 section 52(1) requires a deed (itself defined in the Law of Property (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1989 section 1) before any transfer is effective. Subsequently, a transfer must be registered. The Land Registration Act 2002 section 27(2) makes registration compulsory for all transfers of land, leases over seven years and any charges. Under LRA 2002 section 27, the consequence of a failure to register one's interest is that it will not bind another person in law who is transferred the property and does register. If the transfer of land takes place through a will, the Wills Act 1837 section 9 requires in similar terms that the will be signed in writing and have two witnesses. The beneficiary under the will must then take steps to register the interest in land in her name. In the case of a person who dies without leaving a will, their property, including land will succeed in passing by operation of law to the next of kin, or in the case of jointly owned property in a joint tenancy, to the co-owner/s.\n\nIn all situations, the requirement of formality is thought to improve the quality of people's consent. It has been reasoned, most notably by Lon Fuller, that going through the laborious motions of formality induces people to truly consider whether they wish to make a transfer. It also provides evidence of the transaction, and makes the threshold of a transaction's enforceability simple to determine. This is most seen in the case of a contract. If an interest in land is the subject of a contract, the law isolates three steps. First, the sale will take place, which according to LPMPA 1989 section 2 may only occur with signed writing (though by section 2(5) and Law of Property Act 1925 section 54(2) leases under 3 years can be made without). Second, technically the transfer must take place under Law of Property Act 1925 section 52(1) by a deed (though there is no reason why this cannot be combined with step 1, by using a deed for the sale!). Third, the land must be registered for the legal interest to take effect under LRA 2002 sections 27 to 30.\n\nAlthough the formal steps of a contract, conveyance and registration will allow people to acquire legal interests in land, over the course of the twentieth century Parliament, and the courts, slowly recognised that many people have legitimate claims to property, even without following formalities, and even without gaining the consent of a property owner. The institution of a trust has come to play a major role, particularly in family homes, because according to the Law of Property Act 1925 section 53, while declarations of express trusts require signed writing to take effect, resulting and constructive trusts do not. A \"resulting\" trust is typically recognised when a person has given property to a person without the intention to benefit that person, so the property jumps back to the person it came from. \"Constructive\" trusts have been recognised by English courts in about eight unrelated circumstances, whenever it is said it would be \"unconscionable\" that the courts did not recognise properly belonged to the claimant. In the context of family homes, these two types of trust allowed judges to recognise, from around 1970, a spouse's proprietary right in a home because of the contribution (broadly speaking) to home life. Parliament had enacted the same reform already as a part of family law. In the Matrimonial Proceedings and Property Act 1970 section 37, \"where a husband or wife contributes in money or money's worth\" to improve property, a court could recognise an equitable right in it, but also vary the amount to the extent it was deemed just. And under the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 section 24, a court was empowered in divorce proceedings to vary the property rights of the parties, especially for the benefit of children, to the extent that was just. In the Civil Partnership Act 2004 sections 65 to 72 and Schedules 5–7 achieved the same for civil partners.\nHowever, for cohabiting couples, with or without children, who are not married or civil partners, only the common law was available to make a claim, and it has been slow to reach a position achieved for married couples under statute. In \"Gissing v Gissing\", a case before the passage of the family law statutes, a married couple had lived, worked and had a child together from 1935 to 1961 when the relationship broke down on his adultery. Mr Gissing had paid mortgage instalments and the property was in his name, although Mrs Gissing had made some home improvements. Lord Denning MR in the Court of Appeal held that because they had continued life as a joint venture, even though she had made no quantifiable money contribution, nevertheless Mrs Gissing would have a half share in the property under a constructive trust. The House of Lords reversed this decision, arguing that no \"common intention\" could be found, as was said to be needed, for her to share in the home's equity. Despite this, some cases creatively allowed for a constructive trust on the basis of \"common intention\" if unusual conduct was arguably evidence of wanting to share the home. In \"Eves v Eves\", the Court of Appeal (with Lord Denning MR) held that a lady who broke up a patio with a 14 lb sledgehammer must have been intended to share in the home's equity. In \"Grant v Edwards\", the Court of Appeal allowed a claim by Ms Grant who was explicitly told by her partner, Mr Edwards, that she could not be included on the house title deeds because it could affect her chances of a divorce proceedings. This was, said the court, apparently evidence that (if Ms Grant had had no divorce proceedings) the couple must have intended to share the house together. However, then in \"Lloyds Bank plc v Rosset\" the House of Lords halted development again. Lord Bridge held that only if (1) a spouse made direct contributions to a home's purchase price, or (2) a spouse had actually reached some agreement, however uncertain, that a claim for an equitable interest would succeed. This meant that Mrs Rosset, who was not on the title deeds, had made no financial contributions, but who had done much decorating work, could not claim an equitable interest in the home where she lived. This meant that the bank was entitled to repossess the home, following a default on Mr Rosset's mortgage loan, free from her interest in actual occupation. Nevertheless, if a court did acknowledge a spouse's contribution to the home, it could \"inflate\" the interest to whatever size possible (as under the 1970 and 1973 Acts). So in \"Midland Bank plc v Cooke\" the Court of Appeal held that although a joint gift of £1100 to Mr and Mrs Cooke only represented 6% of the home's value, Mrs Cooke's interest could be raised to one half. This meant that Midland Bank was entitled only to half the equity value of the home after Mr Cooke defaulted on a loan with them.\nThe most recent set of cases appear, however, to have moved further. In \"Stack v Dowden\" a couple with four children who lived together for 18 years had registered a house in both their names. However, Ms Dowden had contributed more money. She claimed that the presumption of equal ownership should be displaced and that she should therefore have a share that was greater than half, and the House of Lords agreed that she owned 65% of the beneficial interest. Although not concerning the same point, Lord Walker noted that the law since Lord Bridge's decision in \"Lloyds Bank plc v Rosset\" \"has moved on\", regarding the question of what matters in quantifying people's shares in a home. The majority also remarked that in family situations, constructive trusts provided more utility where the court had greater flexibility to quantify people's interests free from tangible financial contributions, and that resulting trusts were more appropriate to commercial relationships, where the quantification of a person's interest would more match financial contributions. Furthermore, in \"Kernott v Jones\", Ms Jones and Mr Kernott had had two children and were both on the registered title. However, from 1993 to 2008, Mr Kernott had moved out, and Ms Jones was raising the children, paying the mortgage and the house expenses. In TLATA 1996 section 14 proceedings, Court of Appeal upheld his claim for 50% of the property, arguing that with absolutely no evidence of any intention otherwise, it could not be the courts' role to \"impute\" the intentions of the parties. The Supreme Court reversed this, finding that Ms Jones did indeed own 90% of the home's equity, and this could readily be inferred from all the circumstances. In the Privy Council, in \"Abbott v Abbott\" Baroness Hale more squarely affirmed that the \"parties' whole course of conduct in relation to the property must be taken into account in determining their shared intentions as to its ownership.\" However, it still remains unclear to what extent (and why) the law on cohabiting couples, after four decades, remains different from that for married couples under the 1970 and 1973 Acts.\n\nProprietary estoppel is the third principal mechanism to acquire rights over property, seen particularly in the case of land. Unlike a contract or gift, which depend on consent, or resulting and constructive trusts that depend primarily on the fact of contribution, a proprietary estoppel arises when a person has been given a clear assurance, it was reasonable of them to rely on the assurance, and they have acted to their detriment. This threefold pattern of proprietary estoppel (clear assurance, reasonable reliance and substantial detriment) makes it consistent with its partner in the law of obligations, \"promissory estoppel\". Although English law has not yet recognised promissory estoppel as giving rise to a cause of action, (as has been done under the American Restatement (Second) of Contracts §90) in \"Cobbe v Yeoman's Row Management Ltd\" Lord Scott remarked that proprietary estoppel should be seen as a sub-species of promissory estoppel. In all cases it allows people who act on others' assurances about legal rights, even without them attaining express agreement. For example, in \"Dillwyn v Llwellyn\", a son was held to have acquired a house from his father because he was given a written notice that he would, despite never having completed a deed for conveyance, after the son spent time and money improving the property. And in \"Crabb v Arun DC\" a farmer acquired the right to a path over the council's land, because they had assured him that if he sold off one portion an access point would remain. In all cases, the minimum pattern of an assurance, reliance and some form of detriment is present.\nProprietary estoppel case law has, however, divided on the question of what kind of assurance and what kind of reliance must be present. In \"Cobbe v Yeoman's Row Management Ltd\", a property developer claimed an interest in a group of Knightsbridge flats after his expense in obtaining council planning permission. Mr Cobbe had made an oral agreement with the flat owner, Mrs Lisle-Mainwaring, to get the flats at £12m, but once permission was obtained, the owner broke her oral promise. Even so, in the House of Lords Mr Cobbe failed in his claim for anything more than the expense (£150,000) of getting the planning, because in this commercial context it was clear that formal deeds were needed for completion of any deal. By contrast, in \"Thorner v Majors\", David (a second cousin) worked on Peter's farm for 30 years and believed he would inherit it. This probably was intended but after Peter fell out with other relatives, he destroyed his will, leaving David with nothing. Even though no specific assurance, and only some vague conduct indicating an assurance, was present, the House of Lords held that David had a good proprietary estoppel claim. Lord Hoffmann remarked that if a reasonable person could understand, however oblique and allusive, that an assurance was given, a legal right would accrue. The tendency of the cases is therefore to recognise claims more in the domestic context, which less formal assurances are common, and less so in the commercial context, where formality is normal.\n\nA difficult issue, however, in awarding a remedy for estoppel is that unlike a contract it is not always apparent that a claimant should receive the full measure of what they had expected. By contrast, the factual pattern of estoppels, which often appear something very close to a contract, often seem to warrant more than an award for damages to compensate claimants for the amount of detriment, or loss, as in a tort case. In \"Jennings v Rice\", Robert Walker LJ tackled the issue by emphasising that the purpose of the court's jurisdiction was to avoid an unconscionable result, and to ensure that a remedy was based on proportionality. Here, Mr Jennings had worked as a gardener for a Mrs Royle since the 1970s, but the administrator of her estate had no will. Mr Jennings had been told he \"would be alright\" and more so that \"this will all be yours one day\". The Court of Appeal resolved, however, that not the full estate, worth £1.285m, but only £200,000 would be awarded in view of the actual detriment incurred by Mr Jennings and the uncertainty of what his assurances really meant. In relation to third parties, the remedy for proprietary estoppel has been confirmed to bind others by the Land Registration Act 2002 section 116.\n\nAlthough land may be acquired by consent, and conduct which raises another party's reasonable expectations, these private methods of acquiring land are often insufficient for adequate public regulation. Building national infrastructure, such as railways, housing, and sewerage, as well as democratically determined planning rules, either by national or local government, typically requires compulsory purchase, because private owners might not give up land required for public works except at an extortionate price. Historically, compulsory purchases were carried out under the Inclosure Acts and their predecessors, where enclosure of common land was frequently a method of expropriating people from common land for the benefit of barons and landlords. In the industrial revolution, most railways were built by private companies procuring compulsory purchase rights from private Acts of Parliament, though by the late 19th century, powers of compulsory purchase slowly became more transparent and used for general social welfare, as with the Public Health Act 1875, or the Housing of the Working Classes Act 1885. Compulsory purchase legislation was significantly extended during World War I for military use, and after the war for housing, as certain principles became standardised. Today, the Land Compensation Act 1961 section 5 generally requires that the owner of an interest in land (e.g. a freehold, leasehold or easement as in \"Re Ellenborough Park\") receives payment for the \"value of the land... if sold on an open market by a willing seller\". Compensation is often also available for losses to a home, or if one's business has to move. In turn the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 set conditions for a purchase to be made, and the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 regulates the conditions for granting a \"Compulsory Purchase Order\". Typically, either central government represented by a Secretary of State, or a local council will be interested in making a compulsory purchase. The authority of local councils for make purchases for specific reasons can be set out in specific legislation, such as the Highways Act 1980 to build roads when strictly necessary. However the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 section 226, which allows compulsory purchase to \"facilitate the carrying out of development, re-development or improvement\" for the area's economic, social, or environmental well being, must be confirmed by the Secretary of State, and similarly the Local Government Act 1972 section 121 requires the council seek approval from the government Minister, a time-consuming process which prevents compulsory purchase being carried out without co-ordination in central government.\nBecause of property's social importance, either for personal consumption and use or for mass production, compulsory purchase laws have met with human rights challenges. One concern is that since the 1980s privatisations, many compulsory purchase powers can be used for the benefit of private corporations whose incentives may diverge from the public interest. For example, the Water Resources Act 1991 continues to allow government bodies to order compulsory purchases of people's property, although profits go to the private shareholders of UK water companies. In \"R (Sainsbury's Supermarkets Ltd) v Wolverhampton CC\" the Supreme Court held that Wolverhampton City Council acted for an improper purpose when it took into account a promise by Tesco to redevelop another site, in determining whether to make a compulsory purchase order over a site possessed by Sainsbury's. Lord Walker stressed that \"powers of compulsory acquisition, especially in a \"private to private\" acquisition, amounts to a serious invasion of the current owner's proprietary rights.\" Nevertheless compulsory purchase orders have frequently been used to acquire land that is passed back to a private owner, including in \"Alliance Spring Ltd v First Secretary\" where homes in Islington were purchased to build the Emirates stadium for Arsenal Football Club. By contrast, in \"James v United Kingdom\" Gerald Grosvenor, 6th Duke of Westminster, the inherited owner of most of Mayfair and Belgravia, contended that leaseholders' right to buy had violated their right to property in ECHR Protocol 1, article 1. The European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Leasehold Reform Act 1967, which allowed tenants to purchase properties from their private landlords, was within a member state's margin of appreciation. It was competent for a member state to regulate property rights in the public interest.\n\nAnother issue of whether regulatory or planning decisions in general might breach property rights has not been important for the United Kingdom. In a divided case by the US Supreme Court called \"Lucas v South Carolina Coastal Council\" a majority held that if a regulation prevented a property owner developing land (in this case to preserve coastline beaches) compensation would have to be paid. This has not been followed in most of the rest of the Commonwealth, and in \"Grape Bay Ltd v Attorney General of Bermuda\" the Privy Council advised that a decision by a democratic legislature is better than a court to determine issues of social and economic policy in relation to property. Here, McDonald's attempted to sue Bermuda for passing legislation to prevent it opening a restaurant as a breach of \"property rights\" under the Bermudan constitution, which it said consisted in the expectation of being able to run a business and various contractual arrangements to that end. Lord Hoffmann held that there was no such violation of property, noting that the \"give and take of civil society frequently requires that the exercise of private rights should be restricted in the general public interest.\" The jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, though not fully clear, indicates a similar approach.\n\nThe most contentious method of acquiring property, albeit one that has played a huge role in the history of English land, is adverse possession. Historically, if someone possessed land for long enough, it was thought that this in itself justified acquisition of a good title. This meant that while English land was continually conquered, pillaged, and stolen by various factions, lords or barons throughout the middle ages, those who could show they possessed land long enough would not have their title questioned. A more modern function has been that land which is disused or neglected by an owner may be converted into another's property if continual use is made. Squatting in England has been a way for land to be efficiently used, particularly in periods of economic decline. Before the Land Registration Act 2002, if a person had possessed land for 12 years, then at common law, the previous owner's right of action to eject the \"adverse possessor\" would expire. The common legal justification was that under the Limitation Act 1980, just like a cause of action in contract or tort had to be used within a time limit, so did an action to recover land. This promoted the finality of litigation and the certainty of claims. Time would start running when someone took exclusive possession of land, or part of it, and intended to possess it adversely to the interests of the current owner. Provided the common law requirements of \"possession\" that was \"adverse\" were fulfilled, after 12 years, the owner would cease to be able to assert a claim. However, in the LRA 2002 adverse possession of registered land became much harder. The rules for unregistered land remained as before. But under the LRA 2002 Schedule 6, paragraphs 1 to 5, after 10 years the adverse possessor was entitled to apply to the registrar to become the new registered owner. The registrar would then contact the registered title holder and notify them of the application. If no proceedings were launched for two years to eject the adverse possessor, only then would the registrar transfer title. Before, a land owner could simply lose title without being aware of it or notified. This was the rule because it indicated the owner had never paid sufficient attention to how the land was in fact being used, and therefore the former owner did not deserve to keep it. Before 2002, time was seen to cure everything. The rule's function was to ensure land was used efficiently. The darker side, was that this idea was also very convenient for an age when land was often taken by force, and when doctrines like \"terra nullius\" were espoused by imperialists as justifications for colonisation in British Empire.\nBefore the considerable hurdle of giving a registered owner notice was introduced, the particular requirements of adverse possession were reasonably straight forward. First, under Schedule 1, paragraphs 1 and 8 of the Limitation Act 1980, the time when adverse possession began was when \"possession\" was taken. This had to be more than something temporary or transitory, such as simply storing goods on a land for a brief period. But \"possession\" did not require actual occupation. So in \"Powell v McFarlane\", it was held to be \"possession\" when Mr Powell, from age 14, let his cows roam into Mr McFarlane's land. The second requirement, however, was that there needed to be an intention to possess the land. Mr Powell lost his claim because simply letting his cows roam was an equivocal act: it was only later that there was evidence he intended to take possession, for instance by erecting signs on the land and parking a lorry. But this had not happened long enough for the 12 year time limit on McFarlane's claim to have expired. Third, possession is not considered \"adverse\" if the person is there with the owner's consent. For example, in \"BP Properties Ltd v Buckler\", Dillon LJ held that Mrs Buckler could not claim adverse possession over land owned by BP because BP had told her she could stay rent free for life. Fourth, under the Limitation Act 1980 sections 29 and 30, the adverse possessor must not have acknowledged the title of the owner in any express way, or the clock starts running again. However, the courts have interpreted this requirement flexibly. In \"JA Pye (Oxford) Ltd v Graham\", Mr and Mrs Graham had been let a part of Mr Pye's land, and then the lease had expired. Mr Pye refused to renew a lease, on the basis that this might disturb getting planning permission. In fact the land remained unused, Mr Pye did nothing, while the Grahams continued to retain a key to the property and used it as part of their farm. At the end of the limitation period, they claimed the land was theirs. They had in fact offered to buy a licence from Mr Pye, but the House of Lords held that this did not amount to an acknowledgement of title that would deprive them of a claim. Having lost in the UK courts, Mr Pye took the case to the European Court of Human Rights, arguing that his business should receive £10 million in compensation because it was a breach of his right under ECHR Protocol 1, article 1 to \"peaceful enjoyment of possessions\". The Court rejected this, holding that it was within a member state's margin of appreciation to determine the relevant property rules. Otherwise, a significant limit on the principle in the case of leases is that adverse possession actions will only succeed against the leaseholder, and not the freeholder once the lease has expired. However the main limitation remains that the 2002 legislation appears to have emasculated the principle of adverse possession, because the Registrar now effectively informs owners of the steps to be taken to stop adverse possession in its tracks.\n\nBecause land and the things on it can be enjoyed by a number of people at once, the law must accommodate multiple interests in its ownership rules, and often determine whose interests have priority. When the freehold of land is owned by one person, no conflict will arise in who has priority of its use. In the Latin phrase, \"Sic utere tuo ut alienum non laedas\", one may, in general, use property in any way so long as it harms nobody else. This gives the owner the sole right to bring claims in crime or tort, particularly for others causing a nuisance, or committing a trespass, against the owner's peaceful enjoyment of property. Depending on the nature of interference, an owner may also have claims for compensation against state authorities who seek to compulsorily purchase property, or state officials who wish to enter or search property. However, when more than one person is interested in real estate, rules of ownership priority are needed to determine who may bring claims. Rules must also determine the content of rights that the interested parties have among one another. First of all, land may be co-owned in two main ways. In a \"joint tenancy\", the law presumes owners agree that if one owner dies, his or her whole share will pass to the other owners. The case law primarily deals with the conditions under which a tenant's share will be severed to create a \"tenancy in common\", where there is no right to survivorship, and then under what conditions a tenant in common may require the property be sold to realise its value. Second, owners may lease their property to tenants for a defined period of time. The law also recognises that owners may simply licence their property for use by others, which in theory creates only personal rights. Largely because more statutory and common law privileges attach to leases, the courts have been careful to police the boundary between the two. Third, English property law recognises the ability to charge or mortgage assets to a lender with a loan contract. This means that if the owner defaults on repayments, the lender has the security of being permitted to take possession of and to sell the property. And fourth, neighbouring property owners may create rights to use or restrict each other's use of their land through easements and covenants. Although such things may arise by agreement, English law acknowledges their proprietary character, and so they bind successors in title.\n\nWhile a sole owner will generally be free to use and dispose of his interest in the way he sees fit, the rules differ when land is under co-ownership. The Law of Property Acts, which aimed to improve land's transferability on the market, required that land could have a maximum of four co-owners, who must all have the same title. This means that a purchaser need only deal with a maximum of four people to buy an interest (e.g. an outright purchase, or a mortgage) in it. The Law of Property Act 1925 sections 1(6) and 36(2) prohibits a divided legal title, known as a \"tenancy in common\". If there are more people with a co-ownership interest, then by the Law of Property Act 1925 section 34(2) the first four people named on a conveyance will be deemed by law to be trustees for the further co-owners. In effect these first four people become legal representatives for the other owners in equity. Although to simplify conveyancing the law does not, equity does recognise unlimited numbers of co-owners, and owners with unequal interests (i.e. \"tenants in common\"). If land is traded, their interests will be considered \"overreached\", or effectively bought out over their heads with their interest detached from the land and reattached to purchase money, if money is paid to at least two trustees. The requirement for two trustees to receive the money is intended to reduce danger of one trustee running off with money to the detriment of the equitable owners. In the first main form of co-ownership, known as \"joint tenancy\", the joint tenants are deemed to share equally in the value of the property if it is sold, and if one joint tenant dies, the others will (by the \"right of survivorship\" or \"jus accrescendi\" in Latin) take the whole of his share. This is a legal presumption, and owners are free to stipulate that they wish their share to be apportioned differently (e.g. depending on financial contribution to the property), and that they wish someone else to inherit their share. When making a transfer of property on HM Land Registry's \"TR1\" form, owners may indicate which relation they choose, however in \"Stack v Dowden\" the Supreme Court observed that this will not always be decisive, particularly where people do not have full understanding of the survivorship rule and have made very unequal financial contributions to the property. But otherwise, co-owners will remain as joint tenants in equity until they take action to sever their share.\nSeverance in equity can be achieved in five main ways. Firstly, the most certain way to sever is to serve a statutory notice under Law of Property Act 1925 section 36 on the other joint tenants \"a notice in writing of such desire\" to sever one's share. Some courts have construed this provision restrictively, so in \"Harris v Goddard\" the Court of Appeal held that because Mrs Harris in her divorce petition requested merely that \"such order be made... in respect of the former matrimonial home\", and did not request that an order be made immediately, she had not yet severed her share. This meant that when Mr Harris unexpectedly died after a car crash, she was able to remain a joint tenant and inherit the whole home, and the children of Mr Harris' first marriage did not. A notice will be considered effective, or \"served\" under Law of Property Act 1925 section 196 when it is left at a person's home or office, or if posted and so long as it does not go undelivered (in contrast to the postal rule) when it would ordinarily arrive. In \"Kinch v Bullard\" Mrs Johnson was terminally ill, and wished to sever her share of the home and sent a letter, but when she realised that Mr Johnson was ill too and would die first, she wanted to cancel her severance notice. Neuberger J held that because the letter was already delivered to Mr Johnson's house, it could not be withdrawn, even though Mr Johnson had not yet read it. Second, and in contrast to the formalistic approach for section 36, it was held in \"Burgess v Rawnsley\" that a course of dealings between two people can manifest the intention to sever. Mr Burgess had discussed with Ms Rawnsley selling her share in a property for £750 but negotiations stalled when she asked for more, and then he unexpectedly died. \"'Even if there was not any firm agreement but only a course of dealing\", said Lord Denning MR, \"it clearly evinced an intention by both parties that the property should henceforth be held in common and not jointly.\" Third, simply making an agreement to sell one's share will be counted by the courts as severing. Fourth, the declaration of bankruptcy effects severance, as under the Insolvency Act 1986 section 306, a bankrupt's estate will vest immediately in the trustee in bankruptcy. Fifth, killing a joint tenant will sever a share, because the Forfeiture Act 1982 generally prevents a killer to benefit from his wrong. However, in \"Re K\" the Court of Appeal upheld a claim by a lady to be relieved from forfeiture using a discretion in section 2. Mrs K had shot and killed her husband, but only after prolonged domestic violence, and she had been cleared of murder because it did not count as intentional. Lastly, if practical, beneficial owners may request trustees to physically partition property under Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 section 7, and compensate the different owners in money as is appropriate.\n\nWhen co-owners fall into disagreement over how land is to be used, the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 guides who can live in the property or when it can be sold. One of the primary purposes of TLATA 1996, given the massive growth of co-ownership and people acquiring interests in land through trusts, was to reduce the occasions on which land would be sold if that meant people would lose their homes. At the highest level of generality, TLATA 1996 section 6 says the legal trustees of a property (i.e. the legal owners on the title, rather than the owners in equity) generally have all the powers of an absolute owner, but should pay regard to beneficiaries and owe them a duty of care. More importantly, sections 11 to 13 give beneficiaries a limited right to occupy a property if this accords with the interest and purpose of the trust, if land is suitable for occupation, although trustees may restrict this right if reasonable. If disagreements are insoluble, section 14 allows a beneficial owner to apply to court for sale. Section 15 requires that the court pays regard (i) to the intentions of the settlor (ii) to the purpose of the trust (iii) the interests of any children living there, and (iv) the interests of secured creditors. This means that in a common case where a bank is pressing for sale of a family home, its interests do not override all others. So in \"Mortgage Corporation v Shaire\" where Mr Shaire had forged his wife's signature to get a mortgage on their home and died, and the bank sought possession and a sale under TLATA 1996 section 15, Neuberger J held that he would postpone the sale, because it was still her home. However TLATA 1996 went further when a creditor has become insolvent. It inserted in the Insolvency Act 1986 new sections 283A and 335A, which say that at the point of bankruptcy, the decision to order a sale should be guided by (a) the interests of the bankrupt's creditors, (b) the spouse's conduct, their resources, the children's needs, and any other need, except for the bankrupt's own. However under section 335A(3) after one year expires, a court must order sale of property to realise its value for creditors \"unless the circumstances of the case are exceptional\". So only in extreme situations, as where losing a home might worsen the occupant's schizophrenia, have courts postponed sales. Because the legislation is so heavily pro-bank, the suggestion was made in \"Nicholls v Lan\" that it may well violate the right to a family life in ECHR article 8.\n\nAs opposed to sharing full ownership, and without dividing land physically, the use and enjoyment of land can be shared when owners grant licences or leases. The difference between the two matters because a lease counts as a property right that binds third parties even if a freehold changes hands, and because more statutory protection for tenants attaches only to leases, albeit that many cases have increased protection for license holders too. A licence is said to be a personal obligation, which in traditional theory was said to create rights enforceable only between the people privy to the licence. First, licences may arise by implication of the law, such as when a customer walks through an open shop door. The customer is recognised as having a \"bare licence\" which makes him immune from an action for trespass, and can only be asked to leave over within a reasonable time. Second, they may arise by statute, as with the Family Law Act 1996 sections 30–31. Third, they may arise by estoppel. And practically most important, licences can arise through a contract. This will set the terms of the land's use by the licensee. For example, in \"Hurst v Picture Theatres Ltd\", Mr Hurst was removed from a High Street Kensington theatre by a manager who honestly believed that he had not paid for his ticket. Buckley LJ held the theatre was not entitled to remove him, even if it revoked the ticket, because with, and in addition to breach of contract they committed assault on him, for which he could claim additional damages. However, breach of contractual licence will not entitle the victim to force his way back, so in \"Thompson v Park\" a teacher who tried to force his way back into a school was told he had no remedy because he should have sought a court declaration first. If possible, and as damages will often be inadequate, the courts show preference for awarding specific performance. This was so even when the claimant was the National Front, who had licensed a Pavilion for its annual conference.\n\nThis preference for specific performance has been manifested generally in providing more \"property-like\" rights for licensees. In \"Manchester Airport plc v Dutton\", an airport company, with a licence on National Trust land, was held entitled to claim that trespassing protesters could be removed. Its contractual right was held to be better than the trespassers' right to remain. Then, in \"Errington v Wood\", it was held that when a father gave contractual licence to his son and daughter in law to remain in a Newcastle upon Tyne home till they paid the mortgage, and that the house would become theirs when they did, this became irrevocable. It was also held in \"Binions v Evans\" that a constructive trust arose out of Mr and Mrs Binion promising the former owners of the Tredegar Estate that Mrs Evans could remain for life in her cottage. The Binions were bound by their promise, even though the promise was not to Mrs Evans. However, a later Court of Appeal in \"Ashburn Anstalt v Arnold\" denied that constructive trusts should easily be created or that promises to could become binding on successors in title.\n\nHowever, of more contemporary social significance is the lease. Leases are most usually created by a contract. For short leases, under three years, there is no requirement for writing, and under seven years, there is no requirement for registration. Longer leases, even if they do not fulfil formality and registration requirements will also arise in equity under the doctrine of anticipation, formulated in \"Walsh v Lonsdale\". This means that the interest takes effect under a constructive trust, in turn leading to protection for actual occupants. Formally known under the Law of Property Act 1925 section 205(1)(xxvii) as a \"term of years absolute\", a lease divides property by time, and with a lease comes a measure of statutory protections for tenants. Under the old Rent Act 1977 and Landlord and Tenant Act 1954, these were much more significant, in particular providing controls on escalating rental prices and granting a right to not have a tenancy ended without a good justification (an equivalent to the right to unfair dismissal in UK labour law). This protection was seen as necessary because of the inequality of bargaining power that tenants have.\nHowever, during the 1980s, these rights were removed, along with most rent regulation. Under the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985, the most significant remaining protection is the section 11 obligation on landlords to repair properties' structures, water and heating facilities for short leases. The division, both historical and contemporary, has led to significant litigation over the meaning of a \"lease\". In the leading case, \"Street v Mountford\", the House of Lords identified the factual grant of exclusive possession of a property as being the distinguishing feature between a lease and a licence. Mrs Mountford paid a \"licence fee\" for her home, and had signed a form agreeing that the statute protecting leases from unfair rent rises (the Rent Act 1977) did not apply. She nevertheless argued that she had a lease, and the House of Lords agreed because despite the form of her agreements, the substance of the arrangement was to give her exclusive possession of her living space. According to Lord Templeman in \"AG Securities v Vaughan\", if people could contract out of them, any statutory protections \"would be a dead letter because in a state of housing shortage a person seeking residential accommodation may agree to anything to obtain shelter.\" For the question of whether a person has the benefit of statutory protection, it was held to be irrelevant (counter-intuitively among property lawyers) that the defendant itself has a proprietary interest. So in \"Bruton v London & Quadrant Housing Trust\" Mr Bruton's housing association only had a licence for the property from the council, and it was not doing repairs. Although Mr Bruton needed a lease to claim, and as a matter of property law he could not be granted a lease from a trust that only had a licence, for the purpose of statutory protection, the House of Lords agreed he was granted a lease, and so could request repairs.\n\nWhile real property may be divided among co-owners and tenants for the purpose of the land's use and enjoyment, taking a mortgage of property primarily serves the purpose of ensuring loans are repaid. Because of the nature of money lending, and frequently unequal bargaining power between banks and borrowers, the law gives significant legal protection to borrowers against the enforcement of unfair bargains. Along with pledges, liens and equitable charges, English law counts a mortgage as one of four main kinds of security interest, whereby a proprietary right that binds third parties is said to arise on conclusion of a contract. It must simply be the contract's intention to make property available to secure repayment. The Law of Property Act 1925 section 85 say that a mortgage requires a deed (under LPMPA 1989 section 1, a document that is signed, witnessed and states it is a deed). Under the Land Registration Act 2002 sections 23 and 27, a notice of a mortgage must be filed with HM Land Registry for the mortgage to be effective. Then, Law of Property Act 1925 section 87 says mortgages confer upon the mortgagee (i.e. the secured lender) the same rights as a 3000-year lease holder. The reason for this reference to \"3000 years\" is that in a primitive protective measure, the common law said mortgage terms must always allow for the property to be redeemed in the end, when the debt is repaid. In the 18th century decision of \"Vernon v Bethell\" Lord Henley LC refused to enforce the conveyance of Vernon's sugar plantation in Antigua to a deceased London lender, Bethell, when Vernon had trouble repaying, even though some exchanges between the two had raised the possibility of giving up the land to satisfy the debt. Given the considerable interest paid already, Lord Henley LC held it would frustrate (or \"clog\") Vernon's right to redeem property. As he put it protection for the borrower was warranted because \"necessitous men are not, truly speaking, free men, but, to answer a present exigency, will submit to any terms that the crafty may impose upon them\". Accordingly, the rule developed that \"once a mortgage, always a mortgage\", meaning a mortgage cannot be turned into a conveyance of the property by the operation of terms in an agreement. It means that a lender may at most sell a property to realise its value, but may not take ownership, and the borrower must always practically be able to get back the property. The rule was suspended for companies by the Companies Act 2006 section 739, and was criticised in \"Jones v Morgan\" for being inappropriate in commerce, but it still survives as a rudimentary common law method to protecting vulnerable borrowers.\nThe most relevant protective measure at common law today is the right of borrowers to cancel mortgages if they were misrepresented about the mortgage's terms, or if they entered agreements because of undue influence. In the leading case, \"Royal Bank of Scotland v Etridge\", a group of appeals all involved a husband allegedly pressuring his wife into signing a mortgage agreement with a bank, where security was over the family home. The House of Lords agreed that undue influence would make a contract voidable, and if a bank should have realised this possibility, it could not enforce the mortgage agreement against the spouse's share of the home. Accordingly, if banks wished to ensure valid mortgages they would need to have confirmation from an independent solicitor that the spouse fully understood the transaction. This ruling was intended to eliminate cases where people do not understand the consequences of mortgages. Alternatively, if despite independent advice, a spouse is still unduly influenced or is misrepresented the facts, he or she will have no recourse against a bank selling the home, but may have a claim against the solicitor for professional negligence. Beyond common law, there are three main kinds of statutory protection. First, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 codified a system of licensing for mortgage lenders. The Financial Conduct Authority maintains a Code of Practice and enforces compliance with the threat of license withdrawal. Second, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 empowers the Office of Fair Trading to engage in similar regulation of the second mortgage market. Third, the content of mortgage is regulated by ordinary consumer contract protection in the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. The general thrust of the law is to ensure complete transparency, and to cancel extortionate credit agreements, so that consumers know what they are getting, and do not get an unfair bargain.\n\nMoney lenders have extensive rights from common law and statute. A mortgagee's first right is to repayment of the debt, but if the borrower's circumstances mean this is impossible, a process of taking possession of the mortgaged property and selling it usually begins. Almost every step, however, is mediated through court. The Administration of Justice Act 1970 section 36 says that the court may adjourn proceedings if the \"mortgagor is likely to be able within a reasonable period to pay any sums due under the mortgage\", and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sections 129–130 does the same for second mortgages. In an anomalous case, \"Ropaigealach v Barclays Bank plc\" a bank had auctioned off a (second) house the owning a family was away. Clarke LJ felt unable to apply the AJA 1970, because properly construed, it was only able to halt proceedings when legal proceedings had in fact been launched, and here there were none. In a more borrower-friendly decision, \"Cheltenham & Gloucester Building Society v Norgan\" Waite LJ gave guidance that in ordering a plan for repayment, a judge should give \"the period most favourable to the mortgagor at the outset\", so that repeated applications to court on continuing defaults could be avoided, and so that \"the mortgagee can be heard with justice to say that the mortgagor has had his chance\". When it comes to a sale, Law of Property Act 1925 sections 101 and 103 require that the provision for sale must have been in the mortgage deed, that three months notice and space must be given. Section 88 confirms that a buyer after a sale receives an unencumbered title. In the sale process itself, there is a duty of care. In \"Cuckmere Brick Co v Mutual Finance\" Mutual Finance auctioned Cuckmere Brick Co's property after it had defaulted on a loan, but failed to advertise that the property had secured planning permission for building more flats. Salmon LJ emphasised that because the borrower will still be liable for sums on a loan if a house is undersold, because the \"mortgagor is vitally affected by the result of the sale\", an obligation is owed to get \"the true market value.\" Moreover, a higher duty of scrutiny will be imposed if a mortgagee sells to a related party. In \"Tse Kwong Lam v Wong Chit Sen\" Mr Wong sold property taken from Mr Tse to his wife, after not advertising the auction. The Privy Council advised that while delay in the claim meant the sale should not be set aside, damages could be awarded because of the significant conflict of interest. Lord Templeman emphasised that \"a heavy onus lies on the mortgagee to show that in all respects he acted fairly\" so the transaction is perfectly fair and equal.\n\nEasements and covenants, although treated separately by law, both functioned as primitive forms of planning device. Before the development of local government and planning, people living in neighbouring property could only regulate how each used their land through agreements. An agreement for a first neighbour to use the land of a second is an easement, usually involving a right of way, or a \"profit a prendre\", if it allows the first to take something from the land (e.g. hunting ducks, fishing, or grazing sheep). An agreement for a first neighbour to refrain using his own land for the benefit of a second would be a restrictive covenant. Naturally people could contract to use land in any way conceivable. However the courts viewed it as a different matter whether a successor in title to the original contracting party was bound. Courts were particularly chary with \"positive covenants\" (which might require a landowner's expenditure and could not be fulfilled by doing nothing) and \"negative easements\" (which unlike covenants might be acquired without agreement). As a result, modern planning decisions by councils, primarily through the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, largely displaced the common law and equity to regulate relations in neighbourhoods. Yet many easements and covenants remain.\n\nThe range of easements is primarily restricted by a fourfold test laid out in \"Re Ellenborough Park\". The homeowners around Ellenborough Park wished to show they had an easement over the communal gardens to claim compensation for its requisition in World War II. Lord Evershed MR agreed because (1) they owned the dominant tenements, (2) their rights to the \"servient\" tenement (i.e. the park) benefited their land (3) they did not own the servient tenement, and, despite some prior authority suggesting easements could not be for pure pleasure, (4) it was within a recognised class of easements. Most often, easements are rights of way. Many recent cases have also involved car parking, including \"Moncrieff v Jamieson\" where the owner of land between the shoreline and a steep escarpment only had access through his neighbour's, and he had, from 1973 become used to parking there. The servient tenement owner claimed the car parking took away his use of the land, and so could not be an easement. But the House of Lords held that in the nature of parking (which was not permanent) to which the dominant owner had become accustomed, the right could count as an easement.\n\nTo create an easement, first, under Law of Property Act 1925 section 65(1) a landowner may expressly grant a neighbour a right over his land, or may reserve a right when selling a portion of land to someone else. Second, an easement may also come about through an express assurance, triggering proprietary estoppel. This was the case in \"Crabb v Arun District Council\", where a landowner acquired an easement after the council assured him they would leave him access to his land over theirs, when he sold another portion that gave the route in from the main road. Third, the law may find easements by a process of construction, in general, if they are necessary for property's reasonable enjoyment. The rules are analogous to incorporation and implication terms in contracts, so for instance in \"Green v Lord Somerleyton\" Jonathan Parker LJ approved an easement for drainage of water from Lord Somerleyton's land into Green's dykes, because when land was sold on in 1921 its proper construction incorporated a drainage deed. In \"Kent v Kavanagh\" it was clarified, however, that because reasonable enjoyment was the aim of implication, an easement was only to be implied in situations where land was in common ownership and occupation. This test was satisfied on those facts, where two semi-detached houses had a small path between them to access the back gardens, and a subsequent buyer wished to build into its half of the path. Chadwick LJ held the easement was necessary for enjoyment of the back garden. Fourth, under Law of Property Act 1925 section 62, easements that are \"appertaining or reputed to appertain to the land\" at the time of a conveyance will bind the purchaser. So in \"Hair v Gillman\" a lady who parked her car in a neighbour's forecourt while she had a seven-year lease acquired a crystallised lease when she subsequently bought the house. If easements are used for twenty years, however, a fifth method of acquiring a crystallised legal right is through the Prescription Act 1832. This method comes from simple period of extended use, and does not require showing any need for the easement. There are also a range of statutory easements, including, notably, \"wayleaves\" reserved by public authorities to install pipes or cables, and the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000 which extended the registered number of private and common lands where people have the \"right to roam\" for recreation. However created, an easement ought to be registered to ensure protection. An easement that is not registered will be recognised as an over-riding interest according to LRA 2002 Schedule 3, paragraph 3, if known to a person to whom land is sold and if the easement is obvious on a reasonably careful inspection, but only if the easement is acquired at law (not equity) since 13 October 2003.\n\nUnlike an easement, a covenant can only be acquired through agreement or possibly by an assurance, but not by prescription. In the most famous case, \"Tulk v Moxhay\" the owner of what is now Leicester Square promised a neighbour he would not erect buildings, but the subsequent purchaser (who knew of this deal) tried to build. Lord Cottenham LC held that a prior covenant may bind future owners if the covenant touched and concerned the land, the original covenantees intended the covenant to bind future owners, and the future owners with the same land had notice of the covenant. Under Law of Property Act 1925 section 78, successors in title to the person named to benefit from the covenant are deemed to have standing to enforce the covenant and Law of Property Act 1925 section 79 codified the presumption that a covenant is to be not personal, but proprietary, and binding on successors in title. That presumption, however, can be rebutted by construction of agreements between the neighbours. This happened in \"Morrells of Oxford Ltd v Oxford United Football Club\" where Robert Walker LJ held that Morrell's pub could not get an injunction against the Oxford UFC building a pub, because although Oxford UFC's predecessor had promised not to in 1962, the document failed to use language indicating successors would be bound in the pub clause, when it did in other clauses. A controversial aspect of covenants is that courts only enforce ones which restrict land's use, and thus far have refused to enforce covenants that require positive expenditure. In \"Rhone v Stephens\" this meant that a house owner could not be required to repair his roof, which protected a cottage underneath from water. Lord Templeman viewed this would contradict the rule that someone should not be made liable to a contract when they have not been privy to it. This has been mitigated slightly when all neighbours have reciprocal benefits and burdens. \"Halsall v Brizell\" held that if some Liverpool estate dwellers had the benefit of using the estate roads, drains, promenade, and sea walls, they could be required to pay for its upkeep. Covenants are enforceable, generally, through injunctions, but may also (if an injunction would be oppressive) enforceable through a payment of damages reflecting the loss of the right. For instance in \"Wrotham Park Estate Co Ltd v Parkside Homes Ltd\" a developer who built homes in breach of a restrictive covenant was ordered by Brightman J to pay 5% of his anticipated profits in compensation. Finally, applications to the Land Tribunal may be made for declarations to extinguish covenants under Law of Property Act 1925 section 84 if it is obsolete, the beneficiary would lose little, or has implicitly agreed, or it impedes a reasonable user of land and the beneficiary can be compensated.\n\nWhile the typical content of \"land law\" texts in England or the United Kingdom concerns the content, creation and protection of interests in property in land, the practical and social significance of land extends to the way it is used. Historically, land was the most important source of social wealth. Over the 19th century its role in preserving wealth was to a large extent eclipsed by corporations and the managed fund, however land remains vital for housing, economic development, for agriculture and extraction of natural resources, and as its part of the environment. The acquisition of private rights aside, public regulation of land use has sought to mediate the competing interests among competing stakeholders. In housing, the need of people to have a home is balanced between the interests of landlords in seeking rents for profit, and governments in building and maintaining homes. Housing has remained a residual source of private investment income, which grew in the run up to the subprime mortgage crisis and after, while taxation of property remains a significant source of income for HM Treasury. Particularly since 1909, new national planning strategies were used to improve the quality of building, and distribute urban development in a way that reflected local priorities. Environmental protection policies limit the ways that land can be use, and the effects its use can have upon local communities. Finally, agriculture and resource extraction played a smaller part in the UK's economy than before but, along with a common strategy around the European Union, these industries benefit from a system of subsidies and market regulations intended to make land use sustainable.\n\nIn the centuries before 1909, the law of planning how land would be used was largely confined to the law of nuisance, and agreements to between neighbours for easements and covenants. This was not always true, because from the Magna Carta 1215, and the subsequent development of the Charter of the Forest (\"forest\" being an old term for crown land) there was a significant body of law regarding the use of the commons: the public land that common folk could use for gathering food, wood, hunting, or herding. Statutes and case law regulated the types of activity the people could perform, and the extent to which they could use common property. But gradually over the 15th century and 16th century, the aristocracy began the enclosure movement, in effect privatising almost all property that had been common. The public law of land had passed into insignificance, it was common to hear the 19th century judiciary proclaim the importance of private rights, with barely detectable minimum of responsibility. For example, in 1865 in \"Taplin v Jones\", Lord Cranworth proclaimed that every \"man... [has] a right to use his own land by building on it as he thinks most to his interest\". Claimants could sue for a public or private nuisance from neighbours, but the case based definition of what counted as a nuisance was usually unfavourable to ordinary people. For example, there could be no objection for loss of amenity if a loud railway was run past one's house. In \"Sturges v Bridgman\" the Court of Appeal held that what counted as a nuisance would depend on the character of the locality, and this meant that 'what would be a nuisance in Belgrave Square would not necessarily be so in Bermondsey'. Inadvertently this meant that the rich, like those in Belgrave Square might be protected, while the poor, in places like Bermondsey, had little control over their local environments. For this reason it was thought that democratically elected local councils ought to be given the power to determine how the land around them would be used. In modern jurisprudence, it has become a basic principle that property does carry social responsibility, and that the extent of property rights that are recognised in law must be 'considered in relation to their social function'. The first major Act in the UK, the Housing, Town Planning etc Act 1909, recognised this by giving local governments the authority to develop planning schemes, and employ inspectors, with appeal to a Local Government Board, initially regarding sanitary conditions. The Town and Country Planning Act 1947, however, made the most critical change, requiring that any development of land required permission from the local government, unless there was a relevant exception. Since then modern legislation has grown into a local, regional and national system of planning law. Together with rules on compulsory purchase, it is designed to ensure the use of property is determined by the people in society who are most affected.\nToday, the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 contains the basic planning rules. Section 57 requires permission be granted for ‘development’ of land. Section 55 defines ‘development’ as building, engineering, mining, or making any material change to building, including demolition, or splitting a home into two. However, subsection 2 exempts changes to dwelling houses for something incidental to enjoyment, for agriculture or forestry, or changes of a property's use within a set of property ‘classes’. For many people making changes to business property, the Town and Country Planning (Use Classes) Order 1987 then becomes relevant. Each property use has a class. Class A1 includes shops like bookstores or hairdressers, class A3 includes cafes, class C1 is hotels, and class C3 is homes. If a change to a property's use is made within a class, no permission for alterations is needed. If permission is granted, it may be unconditional, or under section 106 the local authority can attach conditions that the landowner must follow. Sections 171A to 196C contain the enforcement rules, which include allowing local authorities to charge people with offences for breach of planning rules, and to have a right of entry to property. However, under section 171B, if someone has breached a planning rule, but no enforcement proceedings are brought within four years, there can be no charge: the landowner becomes immune. Sections 197 to 261 contain detailed rules about matters such as trees, advertisements, highways. For establishments that will be used for specific purposes, such as restaurants, pubs or clubs, the Licensing Act 2003 sets out the procedures by which businesses can acquire a licence from their local authority, and the conditions (including time of trading, alcohol provision, and noise levels) under which the establishment must be maintained.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8075039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8075039", "title": "Executive communication", "text": "Executive communication\n\nIn the United States federal government, executive communication is a message sent to the Senate by the President or other executive branch official. An example of executive communication is a presidential veto message.\n\n"}
{"id": "896976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896976", "title": "Federal Court of Canada", "text": "Federal Court of Canada\n\nThe Federal Court of Canada, which succeeded the Exchequer Court of Canada in 1971, was a national court of Canada that had limited jurisdiction to hear certain types of disputes arising under the federal government's legislative jurisdiction. The Court was split in 2003 into two separate Courts, the Federal Court and the Federal Court of Appeal, although the jurisdiction and powers of the Courts remained largely unchanged.\n\nThe court used facilites as the Supreme Court of Canada Building as well as Thomas D'Arcy McGee Building and registry office at 90 Elgin Street.\n\nPrior to Confederation, the predominantly English-speaking Canada West (which succeeded Upper Canada) and the predominantly French-speaking Canada East (which succeeded Lower Canada) each had a separate system of courts. During pre-Confederation negotiations, the creation of a national court had been contemplated to deal with matters relating to federal law. The \"Constitution Act, 1867\" thus provided under s. 101 that:\n\nThe Parliament of Canada may, notwithstanding anything in this Act, from Time to Time provide for the Constitution, Maintenance, and Organization of a General Court of Appeal for Canada, and for the Establishment of any additional Courts for the better Administration of the Laws of Canada.\n\nDespite the language in the constitution, a national court was not established until 1875. Prime Minister John A. Macdonald made several attempts between 1869 and 1873 to create a national court under the powers granted to Parliament under s. 101 of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\". However, these early attempts were rebuffed due to concerns over jurisdiction, particularly because the early proposals would have established a federal Supreme Court exercising both original (trial) jurisdiction and concurrent appellate jurisdiction potentially in conflict with existing courts administered by Ontario and Quebec.\n\nWhile no court \"per se\" was created, provision was made for the appointment of Official Arbitrators, whose decisions soon became subject to a final appeal to a Board of Arbitrators, until a further right of appeal to the new Exchequer Court was created in 1897.\n\nIn 1875, the Liberal government of Prime Minister Alexander Mackenzie passed \"The Supreme and Exchequer Court Act\" (introduced by Minister of Justice Telesphore Fournier), which was based on Macdonald's earlier unsuccessful bill of 1870. This act created both the Supreme Court of Canada and the Exchequer Court. The jurisdiction of the Exchequer Court was provided under sections 58 and 59 of the Act:\n\n58. The Exchequer Court shall have and possess concurrent original jurisdiction in the Dominion of Canada, in all cases in which it shall be sought to enforce any law of the Dominion of Canada relating to the revenue, including actions, suits, and proceedings, by way of information, to enforce penalties and proceedings by way of information \"in rem\", and as well in \"qui tam\" suits for penalties or forfeitures as where the suit is on behalf of the Crown alone; and the said Court shall have exclusive original jurisdiction in all cases in which demand shall be made or relief sought in respect of any matter which might in England by the subject of a suit or action in the Court of Exchequer on its revenue side against the Crown, or any officer of the Crown.\n\n59. The Exchequer Court shall also have concurrent original jurisdiction with the Courts of the several Provinces in all other suits of a civil nature at common law or equity in which the Crown in the interest of the Dominion of Canada is plaintiff or petitioner.\n\n\"The Supreme and Exchequer Court Act\" made it clear that the Exchequer Court of Canada was inspired by the Court of Exchequer in England, both in name and in jurisdiction, focusing as it did on matters of revenue. In the same year, however, England abolished the Court of Exchequer, merging its jurisdiction into the High Court of Justice. Nonetheless, the jurisdiction provided to the Exchequer Court of Canada initially consisted of:\n\nThe independence of the Exchequer Court was not immediately established. Indeed, justices of the Supreme Court also sat as justices of the Exchequer Court in the early years. The two Courts were not separated until 1887, when the \"Supreme and Exchequer Courts Act\" was amended. George W. Burbidge, a lawyer from New Brunswick, was the first Exchequer Court judge appointed under this new arrangement. At the same time, the Court's jurisdiction was expanded to include exclusive original jurisdiction over all claims against the Crown. It subsequently was conferred admiralty jurisdiction in 1891.\n\nIn 1971, the Federal Court of Canada was established, inheriting much of the jurisdiction of the Exchequer Court. The Federal Court of Canada gained the jurisdiction to hear judicial reviews from federal agencies and tribunals. The Federal Court of Canada had two divisions, the \"Federal Court – Trial Division\" and \"Federal Court – Appeal Division\".\n\nOn July 2, 2003 the court was again restructured. The Court was split into two separate Courts, with the Trial Division continued as the Federal Court and the Appeal Division continued as the Federal Court of Appeal.\n\nUntil 1976, there was substantial judicial support for the view that Parliament could give a federal court jurisdiction over any matter (even a matter not regulated by federal statute law), on the basis that \"the Laws of Canada\" meant not only federal statutes, but provincial ones as well. However, in \"Quebec North Shore Paper Co. v. Canadian Pacific\", the Supreme Court of Canada rejected this notion, as:\n\nThe Court consisted of a first-level trial court, known as the Federal Court of Canada – Trial Division, and an appellate Court, known as the Federal Court of Canada – Appeal Division (more commonly referred to as the Federal Court of Appeal).\n\nThe Trial Division had jurisdiction to hear judicial review of decisions of federal boards and tribunals, including most immigration matters, as well as jurisdiction in admiralty, intellectual property, and disputes involving the federal government.\n\nThe Appeal Division had jurisdiction to hear appeals of decisions of the Trial Division, as well as to determine applications for judicial review of decisions made by specific boards and tribunals, set out in section 28 of the Federal Court Act. Decisions of the Appeal Division could be appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada, but only if leave (permission) was granted by either court.\n\nThe court did not use juries so all matters were decided by judge alone: a single judge in the Trial Division and a panel of three judges at the appeal level. Some pre-trial steps such as motions were decided by prothonotaries, a role similar to a master in other courts. The judges and prothonotaries were appointed by the Cabinet of the federal government.\n\nUnlike the general courts set up by each province, matters could not be brought before the Federal Court of Canada unless a law explicitly allowed the proceeding. The docket of the court primarily consisted of judicial reviews of immigration, intellectual property, and federal employment disputes. The court could also deal with incidental aspects of a dispute that fell outside its jurisdiction if the primary dispute was within its jurisdiction.\n\nThe court was a national court so trials and hearings occurred throughout Canada. Any orders rendered by the court were enforceable in all the provinces and territories. This contrasts with the provincial superior courts which are organized by each province and require additional steps to enforce decisions in other provinces.\n\nThe position of President of the Court was not created until 1923. Before that time, justices of the Supreme Court of Canada sat as judges of the Exchequer Court from 1875 to 1887, at which time George Wheelock Burbidge was appointed as the first full-time judge of the Court. He served until 1908. when Walter Gibson Pringle Cassels was appointed. In 1912, authority was given to appoint an associate judge to the Court, and Louis Arthur Audette was appointed to that position. In 1945, authority was given to appoint more judges to the Court.\n\nFrom 1923, the Presidents of the Court were:\n\n\nSupernumerary\nThe judges of this court are listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9622517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9622517", "title": "Goesaert v. Cleary", "text": "Goesaert v. Cleary\n\nGoesaert v. Cleary, 335 U.S. 464 (1948), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court upheld a Michigan law, which prohibited women from being licensed as a bartender in all cities having a population of 50,000 or more unless their father or husband owned the establishment. Valentine Goesaert, the plaintiff in the case, challenged the law on the ground that it infringed on the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause. Speaking for the majority, Justice Felix Frankfurter affirmed the judgment of the Detroit district court and upheld the constitutionality of the state law. The state argued that since the profession of bartending could potentially lead to moral and social problems for women, it was within the state's power to bar them from working as bartenders. Only when the owner of the bar was a sufficiently close relative to the women bartender could it be guaranteed that such immorality would not be present. \n\nThe decision was subsequently overruled by \"Craig v. Boren\".\n\nAs part of the Michigan system for controlling the sale of liquor, bartenders were required in all cities having a population of 50,000 or more, but no female would be so licensed unless \"the wife or daughter of the male owner\" of a licensed liquor establishment, under Section 19a of Act 133 of the Public Acts of Michigan 1945, Mich.Stat.Ann. 18,990(1).\n\nValentine Goesaert was the owner of a bar in the city of Dearborn, Michigan. According to Michigan law, she was not allowed to be the owner of a bar since the population in Dearborn exceeded 50,000. On November 20, 1947, Goesaert and her daughter challenged the Michigan law at the district court of Detroit before Circuit Judge Simons and District Judges Levin and Picard. The women were represented by attorney Anne R. Davidow. They argued that the law denied them equal protection of the laws and deprived them of their property without due process of law. The main arguments brought forth by Goesaert were as follows:\n\n\nJudges Levin and Simons ruled in favor of Cleary et al., denying all of the plaintiffs' claims: \"the power of the Legislature to make special provisions for the protection of women is not denied.\" On the other hand, Picard dissented, citing two reasons. Firstly, he thought that the law violated Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment because it discriminated between persons similarly situated, denied plaintiffs equal protection of the laws, and was \"palpably arbitrary, capricious and unreasonable, and not based on facts that can reasonably be conceived.\" Secondly, the plaintiffs should be permitted to present evidence before the court acted on the interlocutory injunction.\n\nAfter losing in the District Court, Goesaert appealed to the Supreme Court. The women were once again represented by Anne R. Davidow. Edmund E. Shepherd represented the appellees, Cleary et al. Goesaert et al. once again presented their arguments against the law by focusing on the claim that Michigan could not restrict females from being barmaids and at the same time make an exception, in favor of the wives and daughters of the owners of liquor establishments.\n\nJustice Frankfurter delivered the opinion of the court, which upheld the Michigan law. He first cited the historic tradition of the regulation of liquor traffic, which forbid all women from working behind a bar. Although he pointed out that women had begun to \"achieve the virtues that men have long claimed as their prerogatives,\" the Constitution \"does not require legislatures to reflect sociological insight, or shifting social standards.\" He went on to explain that the Constitution does not require situations which are different in fact or opinion to be treated in law as if they were the same by citing \"Tigner v. State of Texas\". Since the ownership of a bar by a barmaid's husband or father minimized hazards of social and moral problems that would otherwise be present for women, the legislature needed not go to the full length of prohibition with the appearance of two distinct groups of women. In the name of protecting women from moral and social dangers in the bar, the law was upheld by the majority.\n\nJustice Rutledge authored a dissenting opinion, which was joined by Justices Douglas and Murphy. They argued that the law arbitrarily discriminated between male and female owners of liquor establishments. Justice Rutledge presented the opinion by saying, \"This inevitable result of the classification belies the assumption that the statute was motivated by a legislative solicitude for the moral and physical well-being of women who, but for the law, would be employed as barmaids. Since there could be no other conceivable justification for such discrimination against women owners of liquor establishments, the statute should be held invalid as a denial of equal protection.\"\n\nAlthough the Michigan law was deemed discriminatory towards women, the case made a precedent for the Supreme Court to look more closely at legislature with discrimination based on gender. In his argument, Frankfurter relied on the rational basis test for equal protection legislation. With the test, the court asked \"whether it is reasonable for state purposes to treat two classes of people differently.\"\n\nThe key was that as long as the court declared that the state had a justifiable reason to enact a law, the law would be held. By applying the rational basis test to the question of equality in gender-based legislation, Frankfurter opened the door to further state legislation that distinguished between the genders. Afterward, there were many cases that used his criteria to uphold laws that made distinctions between gender.\n\nBy the 1970s, however, attitudes began to shift. The Supreme Court found an Idaho law to be unconstitutional for on its discrimination against women in \"Reed v. Reed\", when the court struck down a law that preferred men over women for appointments as administrators of estates. That was a dramatic change to the Supreme Court's approach to the application of equality for men and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42950775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42950775", "title": "Guaranteed rental", "text": "Guaranteed rental\n\nA guaranteed rental is a transaction whereby a party looking to acquire a property in order to rent it out on a retail basis (i.e., nightly or weekly), typically a property manager or vacation rental manager, rents from the owner of the property a large block of time, typically several months or even years. Through the transaction the acquirer provides the owner of the property with a guaranteed sum over the term of the contract. \nThe acquirer then has the right to rent the property in question out on a retail basis, keeping all related revenues. This transaction is popular with parties seeking to shift the risk and/or management burden associated with renting property.\nSuch a transaction is similar to leaseback arrangements more frequently used by property developers.\n\nThrough a wholesale contract a property owner is able to receive a guaranteed sum over the term of the contract. This takes the risk out of trying to rent the property him or herself, often with financial discount. Depending on how the contract is structured, the property owner may also shift more or less of the costs, maintenance, repairs, and other property owner responsibilities to the acquirer during the term of the contract. One potential downside is that by selling the right to rent to a third party, the homeowner loses some control over how that property is managed during the term, though this can also be negotiated and agreed within the contract.\n\nThrough a wholesale contract a property manager is able to acquire new inventory to manage on a retail basis, increasing revenues. When acquired at the right price, such contracts can also increase profit margins. By purchasing the weeks during the term, the manager has increased control over how the property is managed. One potential downside is the increased risk of providing a guarantee - if the property does not rent as well as predicted in the retail market, the manager still is obligated to pay the property owner the agreed upon sum.\n\nWholesale rentals can be negotiated directly between homeowners and property managers. Such contracts can be good where the parties trust one another, and the numbers are easily agreed upon.\n\nProperty owners and property managers can also come to terms through wholesale rental marketplaces. Through such marketplaces property managers compete against one another, bidding up the price offered and ultimately paid to property owners. By creating a market-derived price for properties’ rental weeks, such marketplaces often make it quick and easy for property owners and property managers to come to agreement and sign wholesale rental contracts.\n"}
{"id": "23229862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229862", "title": "Iraq Inquiry", "text": "Iraq Inquiry\n\nThe Iraq Inquiry (also referred to as the Chilcot Inquiry after its chairman, Sir John Chilcot) was a British public inquiry into the nation's role in the Iraq War. The inquiry was announced in 2009 by Prime Minister Gordon Brown and published in 2016 with a public statement by Chilcot.\n\nOn 6 July 2016, Sir John Chilcot announced the report's publication, more than seven years after the inquiry was announced. Usually referred to as the Chilcot report by the news media, the document stated that at the time of the invasion of Iraq in 2003, Saddam Hussein did not pose an urgent threat to British interests, that intelligence regarding weapons of mass destruction was presented with unwarranted certainty, that peaceful alternatives to war had not been exhausted, that the United Kingdom and the United States had undermined the authority of the United Nations Security Council, that the process of identifying the legal basis was \"far from satisfactory\", and that a war was unnecessary. The report was made available under an Open Government Licence.\n\nIt was initially announced by Prime Minister Gordon Brown that the Iraq Inquiry would be held in camera, excluding the public and press. However, the decision was later deferred to Sir John Chilcot, the inquiry chairman, who said that it was \"essential to hold as much of the proceedings of the inquiry as possible in public\". In July 2009, when the inquiry commenced, it was announced that the committee would be able to request any British document and call any British citizen to give evidence.<ref name=\"BBC 30/7\"></ref> In the week before the inquiry began hearing witnesses, a series of documents including military reports were leaked to a newspaper which appeared to show poor post-war planning and lack of provisions.\n\nThe inquiry was pursued by a committee of Privy Counsellors with broad terms of reference to consider Britain's involvement in Iraq between 2001 and 2009. It covered the run-up to the conflict, the subsequent military action and its aftermath to establish how decisions were made, to determine what happened and to identify lessons to ensure that, in a similar situation in future, the British government is equipped to respond in the most effective manner in the best interests of the country. The open sessions of the inquiry commenced on 24 November 2009 and concluded on 2 February 2011.\n\nIn 2012, the government vetoed the release to the inquiry of documents detailing minutes of Cabinet meetings in the days leading up to the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Concurrently, the Foreign Office successfully appealed against a judge's ruling and blocked the disclosure of extracts of a conversation between George W. Bush and Tony Blair days before the invasion. The government stated that revealing this conversation would present a \"significant danger\" to British–American relations. The million-word report of the inquiry was due to be released to the public by 2014, but difficult negotiations were continuing with the United States over the publication of documents.\n\nThe Lord-in-waiting Lord Wallace of Saltaire said on behalf of the government that it would be \"inappropriate\" to publish the report in the months leading up to the next general election in 2015. In August, it transpired that the Report would in any event be further delayed, possibly into 2016, due to the legal requirement of \"Maxwellisation\", allowing any person who is to be criticised a fair opportunity to comment on a draft prior to finalisation and publication. Chilcot wrote a letter to David Cameron in October 2015, announcing that the text could be complete by April 2016, and furthermore proposed a release date of June or July 2016.\n\nThe committee of inquiry, the members of which were chosen by Gordon Brown, comprised:\n\n\nThe committee also took secretarial support during proceedings from Margaret Aldred.\n\n\nWhen the inquiry was announced on 15 June 2009 by Prime Minister Gordon Brown, it was initially announced that proceedings would take place in private, a decision which was subsequently reversed after receiving criticism in the media and the House of Commons.\n\nThe inquiry commenced in July 2009, with public hearings commencing on 24 November 2009 with Peter Ricketts, chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee at the time of the invasion of Iraq, as the first witness. Opening the proceedings, Sir John Chilcot announced that the inquiry was not seeking to apportion blame but that it would \"get to the heart of what happened\" and would not \"shy away\" from making criticism where it was justified.<ref name=\"Telegraph 25/11\"></ref> The commission resumed its hearings in January 2011 with the former prime minister, Tony Blair as its prime witness.\n\nOn 29 October 2009, HM Government published a Protocol in agreement with the Iraq Inquiry on the treatment of sensitive written and electronic information. Evidence which will not be made available to the public includes anything likely to:\n\n\nThe inquiry heard evidence from a variety of witnesses, such as politicians, including several cabinet ministers at the time of the invasion; senior civil servants, including lawyers and intelligence chiefs; diplomats, mostly composed of British ambassadors to Iraq and the United States; and high-ranking military officers including former Chiefs of the General Staff and Chiefs of the Defence Staff as well as senior operational commanders.\n\nThe inquiry heard mostly from civil servants, intelligence and security officials, diplomats and military officers from the first public hearings up until it recessed for Christmas. Key witnesses included Sir Christopher Meyer, former ambassador to the United States; Admiral Lord Boyce, former Chief of the Defence Staff; Sir John Scarlett, Chief of the Secret Intelligence Service; Major-General Tim Cross, the most senior British officer on the ground in the aftermath of the invasion; and Air Chief Marshal Sir Brian Burridge, overall commander of British forces in the invasion.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Tony Blair was publicly questioned by the enquiry on 29 January 2010, and again on 21 January 2011. On both of these occasions protests took place outside the conference centre. Because of widespread public interest in Blair's evidence, public access to the hearings had to be allocated by lottery. Special dispensations to attend were allocated to those whose close family were casualties of the war, some of whom shouted angry accusations at Blair during his second appearance.\n\nFrom the inquiry's resumption in January 2010, it heard predominantly from politicians and former government officials, including Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's director of communications and on 2 February 2010, then-Secretary of State for International Development Clare Short, when she repeatedly criticised Blair, Attorney General Peter Goldsmith and others in the UK Government for what she maintained was deceiving her and other MPs in an attempt to obtain consent for the invasion of Iraq.\n\nGordon Brown had to retract his claim that spending on defence rose every year during the Iraq war, as this was found not to have been the case.\n\nAfter a recess to avoid influencing the general election, the inquiry resumed public hearings on 29 June 2010. The first witness was Douglas Brand, chief police adviser to the Iraqi Interior Ministry from 2003 to 2005.\n\nThe final witness in the public hearings, heard on 2 February 2011, was Jack Straw, Foreign Secretary from 2001 to 2006.\n\nThe Inquiry's final report was published on 6 July 2016. Comprising 2.6 million words in 12 volumes, plus an executive summary, a physical copy was priced at £767. Bereaved families received a free copy. It was also published online. It was longer than the King James Version of the Bible, the Complete Works of William Shakespeare, and Tolstoy's War and Peace put together.\n\nThe report was made available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, although this excluded material supplied by third parties.\n\nThe report – described by BBC News as \"damning\", by \"The Guardian\" as a \"crushing verdict\", and by \"The Telegraph\" as \"scathing\" – was broadly critical of the actions of the British government and military in making the case for the war, in tactics and in planning for the aftermath of the Iraq War. Richard Norton-Taylor of \"The Guardian\" wrote that the report \"could hardly be more damning\" of Tony Blair and \"was an unprecedented, devastating indictment of how a prime minister was allowed to make decisions by discarding all pretence at cabinet government, subverting the intelligence agencies, and making exaggerated claims about threats to Britain's national security\".\n\nThe report found that in the run-up to the war, peaceful diplomatic options to avoid instability and WMD proliferation had not been exhausted, and that the war was therefore \"not a last resort\". Intervention might have become necessary later, but at the time of the invasion of Iraq in 2003, Saddam Hussein did not pose an immediate threat and the majority of the UN Security Council supported the continuation of UN weapons inspections and monitoring.\n\nThe report does not question Blair's personal belief that there was a case for war, only the way he presented the evidence that he had. The report cleared the Prime Minister's Office of influencing the Iraq Dossier (the \"Dodgy Dossier\"), which contained the claim that Iraq possessed the ability to launch WMD within 45 minutes, and instead laid the blame for the weaknesses in its evidence on the Joint Intelligence Committee. Whitehall had early sight of the report and sources say that some lessons are already being applied.\n\nMore specifically, the report blamed Secret Intelligence Service (better known as MI6) head Sir Richard Dearlove who presented so-called \"hot\" intelligence about alleged weapons of mass destruction provided by an Iraqi with \"phenomenal access\" to high levels in the Iraqi government directly to Blair, without first confirming its accuracy. The investigators found that references to this intelligence in government reports were over-certain and did not adequately stress uncertainties and nuance. The informant was later found to have been lying. The Chilcot report states that \"personal intervention [by Dearlove] and its urgency gave added weight to a report that had not been properly evaluated and would have coloured the perception of ministers and senior officials\". The day after the report was published, Blair conceded that he should have challenged such intelligence reports before relying on them to justify military action in Iraq.\n\nSome MI6 staff had also expressed concerns about the quality of its source – in particular, noting that an inaccurate detail about storing chemical weapons in glass containers appeared to have been taken from Michael Bay's film \"The Rock\" – and expressed doubts about its reliability. Nonetheless, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw asked MI6 to use the source to provide \"silver bullet intelligence\".\n\nThe inquiry was not about the legality of military action and could not rule on this as it was not an internationally recognised court. However, the report did criticise the process by which the government investigated the legal basis for the war, finding it \"far from satisfactory\". Lord Goldsmith, the Attorney General, should have provided a detailed written report to Cabinet, but was instead asked to provide oral evidence without extensive questioning, and he did not explain what the basis would be for deciding whether Iraq had violated United Nations Security Council Resolution 1441. Goldsmith's advice changed between January 2003 – when he said that a second resolution was necessary – and March 2003 – when he said that Resolution 1441 was sufficient – and the report describes pressure being applied by the Prime Minister's Office to get Goldsmith to revise his opinion. By ultimately going to war without a Security Council resolution, the UK was \"undermining the Security Council's authority\".\n\nThe report found that Blair had attempted to persuade Bush of the need to seek support from the UN, European allies and Arab states, but that he \"overestimated his ability to influence US decisions on Iraq\". The report accused Blair personally of being too conciliatory towards the US, saying: \"Despite concerns about the state of US planning, he did not make an agreement on a satisfactory post-conflict plan a condition of UK participation in military action\", and drew attention to a sentence from a private memo from Blair to Bush which read \"I will be with you whatever\". Contrary to Tony Blair's claims, Chilcot found that the Special Relationship did not require unquestioning agreement between the UK and the US, and the report identified several previous occasions where one country had gone to war without the other without long-term damage to diplomatic relations, including the Vietnam War and Falklands War.\n\nThe report found that British planning for a post-Ba'athist Iraq was \"wholly inadequate\" and that the Ministry of Defence (MoD) left UK forces in Iraq without any adequate equipment or a plan. It also found that there was no ministerial oversight of post-conflict strategy.\n\nInitial planning for the war assumed an invasion from the north, but Turkey refused permission for UK troops to cross its border. Plans were therefore completely rewritten two months before the war began with insufficient time to assess the dangers or prepare the brigades.\n\nSoldiers were not issued with key equipment, and there were shortfalls in the provision of helicopters, armoured vehicles and in reconnaissance and intelligence assets. In addition, the MoD was slow to respond to the threat of improvised explosive devices (IEDs).\n\nAlthough military officials presented several concerns about the risks of the war, the report found that this was not taken into account in planning. \"The risks of internal strife in Iraq, active Iranian pursuit of its interests, regional instability and Al Qaeda activity in Iraq were each explicitly identified before the invasion\". A \"can-do\" attitude among military officials also led them to downplay dangers and setbacks during briefings.\n\nThe report also described the situation in the city of Basra, where British forces were forced to make a deal with insurgents to end attacks on British troops, as \"humiliating\".\n\nAccording to the report, British military action did not achieve its goals, and Baghdad and south-east Iraq destabilised rapidly in the wake of the invasion.\n\nAt the time, the UK was also involved in the War in Afghanistan and military commanders felt that there was more potential for success there, which meant that equipment, manpower and the attention of commanders were diverted from Iraq in the later stages of the war, exacerbating difficulties.\n\nIn a statement to the House of Commons the afternoon after the inquiry's report was released, the then Prime Minister David Cameron refused to say whether the Iraq War was \"a mistake\" or \"wrong\" and rejected calls for an apology to be issued on behalf of the Conservative Party for its role in the lead-up to the war. Cameron said that he did not see \"a huge amount of point\" in \"replaying all the arguments of the day\" and said that focus should instead be on learning \"the lessons of what happened and what needs to be put in place to make sure that mistakes cannot be made in future\".\n\nThe same day, US State Department spokesperson John Kirby stated in the daily White House press briefing that the US would not respond to the report and that reporters should direct their questions to British officials instead, explaining that their focus was now on Syria rather than a decision made 13 years prior: \"... we're not going to make a judgment one way or the other about this report, and I'll let British officials speak to the degree to which they intend to derive lessons learned from it. That's really, again, for them to talk to. We're not going to go through it, we're not going to examine it, we're not going to try to do an analysis of it or make a judgment of the findings one way or the other. Our focus, again, is on the challenges we have in Iraq and Syria right now, and that's where our focus is\".\n\nAfter the report was issued, Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition and leader of the Labour Party - who had voted against military action - gave a speech in Westminster stating: \"I now apologise sincerely on behalf of my party for the disastrous decision to go to war in Iraq in March 2003\" which he called an \"act of military aggression launched on a false pretext\" something that has \"long been regarded as illegal by the overwhelming weight of international opinion\". Corbyn specifically apologised to \"the people of Iraq\"; to the families of British soldiers who died in Iraq or returned injured; and to \"the millions of British citizens who feel our democracy was traduced and undermined by the way in which the decision to go to war was taken on\".\n\nIn a statement by Alex Salmond released after the inquiry's report was issued, the Scottish National Party said: \"After such carnage, people will ask inevitable questions of was conflict inevitable and worthwhile? The answer from Chilcot is undoubtedly no. And who is responsible? The answer is undoubtedly Tony Blair. There must now be a consideration of what political or legal consequences are appropriate for those responsible\".\n\nAfter the inquiry's report was issued, Tony Blair acknowledged that the report made \"real and material criticisms of preparation, planning, process and of the relationship with the United States\" but cited sections of the report that he said \"should lay to rest allegations of bad faith, lies or deceit\". He stated: \"whether people agree or disagree with my decision to take military action against Saddam Hussein, I took it in good faith and in what I believed to be the best interests of the country. ... I will take full responsibility for any mistakes without exception or excuse. I will at the same time say why, nonetheless, I believe that it was better to remove Saddam Hussein and why I do not believe this is the cause of the terrorism we see today whether in the Middle East or elsewhere in the world\".\n\nFollowing the publication of the report, John Prescott, who was the Deputy Prime Minister at the time of the Iraq War, said that the war was illegal.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" reported, 'Every previous inquiry into Britain's decision to invade Iraq has swiftly been condemned by the public as a \"whitewash\". Such a description hardly applies to the monumental inquest that has been published by Sir John Chilcot. ... After Lord Hutton's report in 2003 and the Butler report the following year, the one thing Sir John could not have afforded to produce was another report that was dismissed as a whitewash.'\n\nPolitical commentators were split as to what extent the report showed that Tony Blair had lied or deliberately misled Parliament and the public. NBC News said that the report \"stops short of saying Blair lied\", the chief political commentator for the \"Financial Times\", Philip Stephens, said that Blair's \"sin was one of certitude rather than deceit\", and writing for Bloomberg View, Eli Lake said that the report proved Blair \"didn't lie his way into Iraq\". Speaking in Parliament, Corbyn said that MPs who voted for the war were \"misled by a small number of leading figures in the Government\" who \"were none too scrupulous about how they made their case for war\", and Caroline Lucas, MP for the Green Party, claimed that contradictions between public statements and private memos to Bush proved that Blair was \"lying\" about whether war could have been averted. Philippe Sands said the report pulled its punches but marshalled the factual evidence in such a way that an inference of lying, deceit or manipulation was possible.\n\nThe timing and nature of the inquiry—and particularly the fact that it would not issue its report until after the 2010 general election—generated political controversy. Conservative Party leader David Cameron dismissed the inquiry as \"an establishment stitch-up\", and the Liberal Democrats threatened a boycott. In a parliamentary debate over the establishment of the inquiry, MPs from all the major parties criticised the government's selection of its members. MPs drew attention to the absence of anyone with first-hand military expertise, the absence of members with acknowledged or proven inquisitorial skills, and the absence of any elected representatives. Several MPs drew attention to the fact that Chilcot would be unable to receive evidence under oath. Gilbert's appointment to the enquiry was criticised on the basis that he had once compared Bush and Blair to Roosevelt and Churchill.\n\nThe criticism by the Liberal Democrats continued with the start of public hearings, with party leader Nick Clegg accusing the government of \"suffocating\" the inquiry, referring to the power given to government departments to veto sections of the final report. Meanwhile, a group of anti-war protestors staged a demonstration outside the conference centre.<ref name=\"Times 25/11\"></ref><ref name=\"BBC 25/11\"></ref> Concerns were also raised about the expertise of the panel, particularly with regard to issues of legality by senior judges. On 22 November 2009, former British Ambassador Oliver Miles published an article in the \"Independent on Sunday\", in which he questioned the appointment to the inquiry panel of two British historians on the basis of their previous support for Israel. In a diplomatic cable from the US embassy in London, released as part of Cablegate, Jon Day, director general for security policy at the British Ministry of Defence is cited having promised the US to have \"put measures in place to protect your interests\" regarding the inquiry. This has been interpreted as an indication that the inquiry is restricted \"to minimize embarrassment for the United States.\"\n\nIn 2012, Attorney General Dominic Grieve was criticised when he vetoed the release of documents to the inquiry detailing minutes of Cabinet meetings in the days leading up to the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Concurrently, the Foreign Office successfully appealed against a judge's ruling and blocked the disclosure of extracts of a conversation between Bush and Blair moments before the invasion. The British government stated that revealing the content of a phone call between Bush and Blair moments before the invasion would later present a \"significant danger\" to British–American relations. In his submission to the inquiry, Philippe Sands observed that:\n\nIn 2011, the \"Independent\" published an article with 15 charges that have yet to be answered by the inquiry.<ref name=\"Independent 1/11\"></ref> Speaking at a public meeting in 2013, David Owen said that the inquiry \"is being prevented from revealing extracts that they believe relevant from exchanges between President Bush and Prime Minister Blair\". He blamed Blair and Cameron for this state of affairs, who he believed have entered into a private deal to prevent the publication of important documents out of mutual self-interest. It emerged that the Cabinet Office was resisting the release of \"more than 130 records of conversations\" between Bush and Blair, as well as \"25 notes from Mr Blair to President Bush\" and \"some 200 cabinet-level discussions\".\n\nThe length of time taken for the inquiry to complete its report is seen by many as excessive, and has been widely criticised. There were also criticisms that the inquiry's final report had been published electronically only as Portable Document Format files, including images of scans of photocopies of printouts of electronic documents, and not in an open format.\n\n"}
{"id": "25982382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25982382", "title": "Italian Competition Authority", "text": "Italian Competition Authority\n\nThe Italian Competition Authority (, AGCM) is an Italian quasi-autonomous non-governmental organization established on the basis of Law no 287 of 10 October 1990, 100 years after the \"Sherman Antitrust Act\". As of 2004, the Italian Competition Authority has also been in charge of enforcing laws against conflicts of interest for Holders of Public Office.\n\nAs the Italian competition regulator, the Authority has the task of enforcing both Italian and European consumer protection laws.\n\nIt is financed by annual allocations through a special chapter of the Ministry of Economic Development's budget. The Financial Law of 2006 introduced partial self-financing: \"AGCM\" has full control over the management of these funds for its own operations.\n\nAn annual report is presented to the President of the Council of Ministers of Italy.\n\nThe main duties of the authority are:\n\nThe Authority in such cases may conduct investigations or hearings, even with the Guardia di Finanza at his disposal, which may result in a warning or an administrative penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "497951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497951", "title": "Liberalism and conservatism in Latin America", "text": "Liberalism and conservatism in Latin America\n\nLiberalism and conservatism in Latin America have unique historical roots as Latin American independence began to occur in 1808 after the French Revolution and the subsequent Napoleonic Wars that eventually engulfed all of Europe. French revolutionaries in the 1790s began an intellectual awakening called the Enlightenment, which opened the door for ideas of positivism in Latin American society and people in Latin America turned to liberal ideologies as liberalism means the idea of liberty, equality and popular sovereignty.\n\nDuring the early 19th century in Latin America, liberalism clashed with conservative views as liberals wanted to end the dominance of the Catholic Church, class stratification and slavery. These issues for many years strongly affected the way that Latin American society was organized. The majority of liberals believed in a democratic system of government, but this system would create many changes and much confusion in Latin American communities in the early 19th century. On the other hand, conservatism favored existing systems and hierarchies. Conservatives believed chaos and social disorder would break out if the political system were liberalized. Latin American conservatives generally believed in class stratification and opposed radical change in government in Latin America.\n\nThe contest between liberals and conservatives in Latin America, while sweeping in effect, was largely fought between members of the landed, white or creole elite. Systems in place from the colonial period—such as slavery, patronage by the elite and debt peonage—meant that the great mass of Indians, Africans and people of mixed race had little, if any power compared to the very small creole ruling class. Thus the concern that liberalization would lead to \"disorder\" that the conservatives spoke about was often a veiled or transparent fear of race war.\n\n\"Caudillos\" soon came to power in some Latin American societies, such as Argentina and Mexico. \"Caudillos\" were conservatives who promised protection and restoration of traditional ways to the people. They were generally pragmatic, believing in a ruling system of what works best. \"Caudillos\" used military force to hold society together.\n\n"}
{"id": "56683038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56683038", "title": "MOD Technology", "text": "MOD Technology\n\nMOD (Media on Demand) Technology is an advanced infotainment technology designed and licensed by FUNTORO. When it was first introduced in 2008, the technology was one of the most innovative and multifunctional system in the automotive industry. Currently, it is widely applied in railway, automotive & commercial industries with an aim to provide infotainment services through interactive monitors embedded in seatback or armrest.\n\nApart from VOD (Video on Demand), MOD Technology is a more advanced and integrated platform that combines entertainment, real-time information, value-added services, advertising system, attractions guidance, shopping & ordering service, network connectivity and Cloud management.\n\nMOD Technology can be implemented in coach bus, city bus, sightseeing bus, sleeper bus, railways, stadium, hotels and others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6016252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6016252", "title": "Malcolm Evans (academic lawyer)", "text": "Malcolm Evans (academic lawyer)\n\nSir Malcolm David Evans, (born 1959) is an English legal scholar. He is Professor of Public International Law and Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law in the University of Bristol.\n\nHis research interests include the law of the sea and the international protection of human rights, with particular focus on the freedom of religion and the prevention of torture.\n\nHe studied law at Regent's Park College, Oxford (1979–82 and 1983–87). He was appointed to a lectureship at the University of Bristol in 1988 and in 1999 was appointed Professor of Public International Law. He was Head of the School of Law 2003-05 before becoming Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law.\n\nHe is a member of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe Advisory Panel on Freedom of Religion and Belief; the International Law Association Human Rights Law and Practice Committee; and the Board of Management of the Association for the Prevention of Torture.\n\nHe has worked extensively on human rights issues for numerous international bodies and NGOs and is currently a member and Chair of the United Nations Subcommittee for the Prevention of Torture.\n\nIn 2015 Evans was appointed as a member of the reconstituted panel of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse.\n\nHe was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) in the 2016 New Year Honours for services to torture prevention and religious freedom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35957186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35957186", "title": "Maroua Declaration", "text": "Maroua Declaration\n\nThe Maroua Declaration is a 1975 maritime boundary agreement between Cameroon and Nigeria. A question regarding the validity of the agreement arose during an International Court of Justice case that decided a boundary dispute between the two countries.\n\nThe Maroua Declaration was signed on 1 June 1975 by Ahmadou Ahidjo, President of Cameroon, and Yakubu Gowon, the head of state of Nigeria in Maroua, Cameroon. The agreement extends a maritime boundary that previously existed between the two countries further into the Gulf of Guinea from the mouth of the Akwayafe River.\n\nIn 2002, the International Court of Justice issued a judgment in a case between Cameroon and Nigeria on their longstanding boundary dispute. Nigeria argued that the Maroua Declaration was invalid and nonbinding because although the Nigerian head of state had signed it, the agreement had not been ratified either by Parliament or any other governmental process. The ICJ held that under international law the declaration was valid and came into effect upon signing by the head of state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21401631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21401631", "title": "Massachusetts v. Mellon", "text": "Massachusetts v. Mellon\n\nMassachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U.S. 447 (1923), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court rejected the concept of taxpayer standing. The case was consolidated with \"Frothingham v. Mellon\". The plaintiffs in the cases, Frothingham and Massachusetts, sought to prevent certain federal government expenditures which they considered to violate the Tenth Amendment. The court rejected the suits on the basis that neither plaintiff suffered particularized harm, writing:\n\nWe have no power \"per se\" to review and annul acts of Congress on the ground that they are unconstitutional. The question may be considered only when the justification for some direct injury suffered or threatened, presenting a justiciable issue, is made to rest upon such an act…. The party who invokes the power must be able to show not only that the statute is invalid but that he has sustained or is immediately in danger of sustaining some direct injury as the result of its enforcement, and not merely that he suffers in some indefinite way in common with people generally.\n\nThis case is considered the beginning of the doctrine of standing. Prior to it the doctrine was that all persons had a right to pursue a private prosecution of a public right.\n\nThe Warren Court would later carve out an exception to this rule in \"Flast v. Cohen\", but later cases have confirmed that \"Flast\" is an exceedingly limited exception to \"Frothingham\"'s general rule (see \"Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State\" and \"Hein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation\").\n\n"}
{"id": "57858985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57858985", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Comoros)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Comoros)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Islamic Affairs, Public Administration and Human Rights of Comoros handles any legal reforms that might improve the justice system. The Union government forces include the Army of National Development and the gendarmerie. When the latter force serves as the judicial police, it reports to the Minister of Justice. Although National Commission for Preventing and Fighting Corruption (CNPLC) exists to prevent corruption, the Ministry of Justice seldom prosecutes corruption cases. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "20836957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20836957", "title": "National Resources Mobilization Act", "text": "National Resources Mobilization Act\n\nThe National Resources Mobilization Act, 1940 (4 George VI, Chap. 13) was a statute of the Parliament of Canada passed to provide for better planning of a much greater Canadian war effort, both overseas and in military production at home.\n\nModelled on the British \"Emergency Powers (Defence) Act 1939\", as amended in 1940, it gave the Canadian government the power to\n\nThis was the basis of all organization for Canada's war production.\n\nIn order to prepare the population for military service, provision was made under the Act for:\n\nThe Act was also used to ensure greater efficiency that was required in a wartime economy by:\n\nThe Act permitted conscripts (known as \"R men\" or \"zombies\") to be used for home defence only and not to be deployed overseas. The \"Zombies\" were so-called because they were soldiers who could not fight overseas in the war, making them like the zombies of Haitian mythology who were neither dead nor alive, but rather somewhere in-between. In 1942, the Act was amended to remove the prohibition on conscripts serving outside Canada, and the first overseas campaign that NRMA recruits were subsequently involved in was the recapture of the island of Kiska in August 1943. Until November 1944, only those Canadians who had volunteered were sent elsewhere overseas.\n\nThe rule prohibiting \"Zombies\" from being sent to fight overseas was modified after a plebiscite was held on the matter on 27 April 1942 where the majority of people in the 8 English-speaking provinces voted to release Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King from his promise not to send the Zombies overseas. By contrast, Quebec voted by a large majority against oversees conscription in the referendum. As Quebec was the one province that Mackenzie King really wanted to vote yes in the plebiscite, Quebec's \"non\" vote placed the prime minister in the dilemma of honoring the wishes of the majority of English Canada vs. alienating the wishes of majority in French Canada. Such an order, authorizing the transfer of 16,000 conscripts to England, was not made until November 1944. This precipitated the Conscription Crisis of 1944, and resulted in several Quebec Liberal MPs leaving the party in protest. 9,667 NRMA recruits were sent to England, of which two-thirds only arrived after V-E Day.\n\nThe Zombies were widely disliked and regarded as cowards by the men who had volunteered for overseas service. The Zombies wore a black tie and collared shirt as part of their uniform while volunteers for overseas duties did not. In April 1945 when the men of the First Canadian Army were informed that henceforth they would now wear the Zombie black tie and collared shirt, the writer Farley Mowat serving with the Hastings and Prince Edward Regiment wrote: \"the black tie itself was known as the Zombie tie, and the resentment of the volunteers, who were now ordered to wear this symbol of shame, was most outspoken.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25731059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25731059", "title": "OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals", "text": "OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals\n\nOECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals are a set of internationally accepted specifications for the testing of chemicals decided on by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). They were first published in 1981. They are split into five sections:\n\n\nGuidelines are numbered with three digit numbers, the section number being the first number. Sometimes guidelines are suffixed with a letter.\n\nGuidelines are under constant review, with guidelines being periodically updated, new guidelines being adopted, and guidelines being withdrawn. Previous guidelines are maintained on the website for reference purposes. Animal welfare concerns are dealt with by ensuring that animal tests are only permitted where necessary.\n\nThe guidelines are available in both English and French.\n\n"}
{"id": "33868241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33868241", "title": "One Angel Square", "text": "One Angel Square\n\nOne Angel Square is an office building in Manchester, England. Construction work began in 2010 and was completed in February 2013. The landmark building is the head office of the Co-operative Group. Standing 72.5 metres (237.8 feet) tall, the building forms the centrepiece of the new £800 million NOMA development in the Angel Meadows area of Manchester city centre. The building cost at least £105 million to construct and was sold on leaseback terms in 2013 for £142 million.\n\nOne Angel Square is one of the most sustainable large buildings in Europe and is built to a BREEAM 'Outstanding' rating. It is powered by a biodiesel cogeneration plant using rapeseed oil to provide electricity and heat. The structure makes use of natural resources, maximising passive solar gain for heat and using natural ventilation through its double-skin facade, adiabatic cooling, rainwater harvesting, greywater recycling and waste heat recycling.\n\nThe building's distinctive form has been compared to a sliced egg and a ship. Its design was announced by architects 3DReid in May 2009 and construction began in July 2010 with a projected completion date in March 2013. In December 2012, the scheme surpassed its pan-European sustainability aims and achieved a world-record BREEAM score of 95.32%. It is also an energy-plus building, producing surplus energy and zero carbon emissions. The building has received numerous awards for its striking aesthetic and sustainability aims.\n\nThe Co-operative Group announced plans to move from its headquarters on Miller Street and Corporation Street to a new site in the Greater Manchester area in 2007. From 2007 to 2011, the group grew strongly according to CEO Peter Marks, membership doubled to six million and revenue and profits also doubled. Takeovers of Somerfield and the Britainnia Building Society fuelled impetus for new head offices to accommodate the growth.\n\nIn December 2008, the group announced it would remain in Manchester city centre and would regenerate land opposite its Miller Street base. The new building is close to Angel Meadow, the site of a 19th-century slum once described by Friedrich Engels as \"hell on earth\". Archaeologists conducted a survey in 2010, which continued into 2012.\n\nThe CIS Tower and the Co-operative Bank's Balloon Street headquarters are unaffected by the development. New Century Hall, home to Co-operative Food, the Dantzic, Hanover, Redfern and Federation Buildings will be vacated and renovated for let.\n\nIn 2011 the Co-operative announced the NOMA project, north of Manchester city centre, to regenerate a 20-acre site with office, retail, residential and hotel space to encourage visitors from the city centre. Manchester City Council contributed £20m to the project as an incentive for redevelopment.\n\nIn December 2011, the Co-operative announced its new headquarters would be known as One Angel Square.\n\nConstruction work began in July 2010 soon after planning permission was granted. The first task was installing the 539 pile foundations - each at an average depth of 18 metres. Work soon began on assembling the 3,300 tonnes of steel and 1,948 coffered concrete floor slabs which make up the structure of the building. BAM Construction was the main building contractor with cost management, project management and CDM coordination provided by Gardiner & Theobald. Specialist services were supplied by Buro Happold for structural and fire engineering and Austrian-based Waagner Biro was commissioned to build the double skin façade. The structure was digitally modelled by BAM before commencing assembly and construction to improve safety and create a building schedule thus saving time during the construction process.\n\nMore than 4,000 workers from over 90 companies were involved in the building's construction making it the largest building site outside South East England. The building was topped out in November 2011 and work began assembling the bronze-coloured diagonal panels of exterior façade. The panels were installed using roped access techniques.\n\nAn estimated £17m of building materials out of the total £100m cost has been locally sourced reducing embodied energy and minimising environmental impact. Mecanoo and Manchester-based Royal Haskoning designed the landscape in front of the building.\n\nConstruction and fitting out was originally scheduled for completion in September 2012, however opening was postponed to 2013 due to delays in the fitting out process. In July 2012, the Co-operative Group announced One Angel Square was on the market for £150 million on leaseback terms so it could gain capital to invest in Phase Two of the NOMA development. The leaseback sale attracted nine bids from six continents. In February 2013, the Group sold the building for £142 million to RREEF Estates, the property investment arm of Deutsche Bank and Ginko Tree Investments, an investment arm backed by the Chinese sovereign wealth fund.\n\nThe Manchester division of 3DReid designed the building with a brief to create a green, landmark building for the city. The building's distinctive form was conceived in a notebook sketch by the lead architect for the building, Mike Hitchmough. The form was refined and developed, before being unveiled to the public in May 2009.\n\nThe building's interior primarily consists of open plan space and can accommodate up to 4,000 staff. The building has 327,643 sq ft (30,439 sq m) of total space - approximately 29,000 sq ft (2,694 sq m) per floor. In keeping with the building's green credentials, employees will be encouraged to use public transport or cycle to work. Facilities have been created to encourage cycling by providing 105 cycle stands.\n\nThe building has been nicknamed the 'sliced egg' because of its distinctive shape. A focal point is the diagonal slice which creates a nine-floor high atrium with its glass roof tilted towards the south, maximising daylight and passive solar gain. The structure has three internal concrete cores in the form of an equilateral triangle. Steel was utilised as the building main material; its strength allows for large column-free floors needed in an open plan building.\n\nThe building's exterior has a double skin facade with a cavity between its inner windows and the outer glass panel structure. The double skin facade is for sustainability and aesthetic reasons - and allows for greater control of heating and ventilation, and accentuates the three curved corners of the building. To accentuate the form further, the exterior aluminium structure holding the glass panels in place has been anodised in a bronze-coloured finish, so it will shimmer in the sun. The facade was originally to be powder-coated but the client decided to spend an additional £120,000 on a bronze anodised finish. This excess was justified as being cheaper over 50 years than using a powder-coated finish which would require maintenance. The building's form has been compared with The Ark and City Hall in London.\n\nThe building is one of the largest in Europe to have a BREEAM outstanding distinction as a result of its high, sustainable energy credentials. In December 2011 the building achieved the highest recorded BREEAM score, making it one of the most sustainable large buildings in the world.\n\nThe open atrium faces south to collect heat from the sun, an example of passive solar building design. The diagonal slice is angled to the south to allow sunlight to pass into the upper floors and atrium. The sun emits electromagnetic radiation in the form of ultraviolet, but changes to infrared when it passes through glass. This creates heat inside the building and overheating will be countered by five stepped curved shades above the atrium which prevent sunlight overheating the building and stops glare. In winter, louvres atop the double-skin façade are closed to maintain the warm air generated in the building. In summer, the opposite occurs and louvres atop the double-skin façade open and consequently expel hot, rising air from the building to reduce overheating.\n\nThe building's sustainable cogeneration heat and power plant uses bio-fuel and waste cooking oil. Its computer systems will recycle waste heat. The building has a used water recycling system and rainwater harvesting. Thermal mass materials which have a high density such as concrete are used to control temperature fluctuations.\n\nOne Angel Square is the only commercial building in the United Kingdom to achieve maximum ratings in energy and sustainability performance by the three main rating systems. It has BREEAM 'Outstanding' accreditation and an A-rated Energy Performance Certificate and Display Energy Certificate.\n\nThe building has been awarded:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1127541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1127541", "title": "Originality", "text": "Originality\n\nOriginality is the aspect of created or invented works as being new or novel, and thus distinguishable from reproductions, clones, forgeries, or derivative works. \nAn original work is one not received from others nor one copied from or based upon the work of others.. It is a work created with a unique style and substance.\nThe term \"originality\" is often applied as a compliment to the creativity of artists, writers, and thinkers. The modern idea of originality is tied to Romanticism, by a notion that is often called romantic originality.\n\nThe concept of originality is culturally contingent. At the time of Shakespeare, it was more common to appreciate the similarity with an admired classical work, and Shakespeare himself avoided \"unnecessary invention\". It wasn't until the start of the 18th century that the concept of originality became an ideal in Western culture. \n\nIn law, originality has become an important legal concept with respect to intellectual property, where creativity and invention have manifest as copyrightable works.\nIn the patent law of the United States and most other countries, only original inventions are subject to protection. In addition to being original, inventions submitted for a patent must also be useful and nonobvious.\n\nIn United States copyright law and the law of many other states, copyrights protect only \"original\" works of authorship, a property which has been historically and legally linked to a concept of \"creativity\". A work must pass a threshold of originality in order to be copyrightable.\n\nIn United Kingdom intellectual property law, a derived work can demonstrate originality, and must do so if it is to respect copyright.\n\nIn the Copyright Law of the United States, more specifically under 17 U.S.C 102, the work that is sought to be protected must satisfy the threshold for originality. Though most of the countries require certain degree of originality in the work sought to be protected, such requirement does not stem from either the Berne Convention or the TRIPS Agreement. Therefore, there is no uniformity in the standard for originality. In the United States, originality necessitates bare minimum degree of creativity and independent creation. The Supreme Court of the United States in the case of Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service Co. held that the work must be independently created and must possess minimum degree of creativity. This interpretation requires an extremely low level of creativity and in the words of the court, “must possess some creative spark no matter how crude, humble or obvious it might be.” The court also took the opportunity to reject the previously judicially-established and followed the \"sweat of the brow\" doctrine. According to the said doctrine, labour and hard-work alone could suffice to establish originality. After the dosctrine was rejected by the Supreme Court in 1991, in the Bridgeman Art Library v. Corel Corp \"case\", the court held that the copies of public domain photographs could not be copyrighted since they lacked originality and while such reproductions may have involved skill and labour, no protection could be granted to them, on account of lack of originality. \n\nWhile the current legal requirements of originality viz. minimum level of creativity and independent labour can be easily assessed and applied in case of literary works, the courts are required to undertake a deeper legal and factual inquiry in photographic works. The United States District Court for Southern District of New York in Mannion v. Coors Brewing Company considered originality in terms of timing, subject and rendition, and held that the nature and extent of the copyright would be independent in the three aspects. The requirement for originality was incorporated in the statute only in the Copyright Act, 1976 and over the course of time, the courts have evolved various metrics to apply the test. Unlike, Patents, novelty is not required for a work to be considered as original. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Sheldon (1936) had clarified that sometimes it is relevant for other purposes. Therefore, if the work created by you is identical to a pre-existing work but you are unaware of the latter's existence, you may still enjoy copyright protection for your work. \n\nApart from novelty, the work is not required to be made with an intent to be original. What is considered is only that it is actually an independent creation in effect. In 1951, the court in Alfred Bell Co. v. Catalda Arts held that the question as to whether there was intent to be original was not to be considered. The Supreme Court of the United States has also clarified that it is not necessary for the work to be artistic to qualify as original. Furthermore, in the landmark ruling, the court observed that it would be a dangerous undertaking for persons trained only to the law to constitute themselves final judges of the worth of pictorial illustrations, outside of the narrowest and most obvious limits. At the one extreme, some works of genius would be sure to miss appreciation. Their very novelty would make them repulsive until the public had learned the new language in which their author spoke. It may be more than doubted, for instance, whether the etchings of Goya or the paintings of Monet would have been sure of protection when seen for the first time. At the other end, copyright would be denied to pictures which appealed to a public less educated than the judge. This observation was an embodiment of the principle of artistic or aesthetic neutrality which seeks to eliminate the inherent subjectivity involved in the judges deciding whether the work is artistic, and hence, the question as to whether it warrants protection. The principle finds four broad justifications- (i) lack of expertise in the judges (ii) fear of elitism (iii) fear of paternalism (also called parentalism) (iv) lack of consensus on what constitutes art. However, scholars note that the principle of aesthetic neutrality is often violated as the adjudicators end up favouring creators of what they believe is deserving of copyright grant.\n\nIn the United States, the work is not required to be non-commercial in nature for copyright protection and unlike the US trademark law, the work need to be necessarily lawful. Therefore, works created for commercial purposes, such as advertisements can also be granted a copyright.\n\nSection 13(1)(a) of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 mentions 'originality' as a requirement for copyright protection to literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works. Courts have interpreted this requirement of 'originality' in different ways. This has given rise to various doctrines/tests that can be helpful in determining whether a work meets the threshold of originality. The most prominent case with respect to 'originality' under the Indian Copyright Law is the \"Eastern Book Company v DCB Modak\". This judgment gave rise to two doctrines i.e. \"modicum of creativity\" and the \"skill and judgment test\". This remains the accepted and current position of law in India as of now. However, prior to this, the Indian Courts used to follow the Sweat of the Brow approach.\n\nThis theory bases the grant of copyright protection on the effort and labour that an author puts into her work as opposed to the creativity involved. Locke's theory of labour as property has often been extended to give jurisprudential basis to this theory of copyright law. In the case of \"V. Govindan v E.M. Gopalakrishna Kone,\" it was held that compilations of information would meet the threshold of 'originality' under the Indian Copyright Act since it involves some level of 'skill, labour and brain'. A similar line of reasoning was adopted in the case of \"Burlington Home Shipping Pvt Ltd v Rajnish Chibber\" where a database was held to be original enough to be protected by copyright under Indian law. However, like in other jurisdictions, this theory was discarded by the Indian Courts also and the focus was shifted to the creativity involved in any work. \n\nThe EBC Modak case is the Indian counterpart of the Feist Publications case in terms of the test it laid down. It concerned the copyrightability of Supreme Court judgments that were copy-edited and published by Eastern Book Company. These judgments were published along with 'headnotes' that were written by the Company itself. While explicitly discarding the Sweat of the Brow theory, the Court held that simply copy editing would not meet the threshold of originality under copyright law since it would only demonstrate an \"amount of skill, labour and capital put in the inputs of the copy-edited judgments and the original or innovative thoughts for the creativity would be completely excluded.\". Thus, it introduced the requirement of 'creativity' under originality. With respect to the level of creativity involved, the court adopted the 'minimal degree of creativity' approach. Following this standard, the headnotes that did not copy from the judgment verbatim were held to be copyrightable.\n\nFinally, the Court also gave way to the 'Skill and Judgment Test' which is more or less a compromise between the sweat of the brow theory and the modicum of creativity test. While relying on the CCH Canadian Case, the Court essentially held that a work would meet the originality standard as long as there is labour or effort involved but not \"only\" labour. It must involve some level of skill and judgment as well. However, this approach mirrors the Sweat of the Brow theory more closely and is therefore a difficult theory to defend. Further, the Court held the division of a judgment into paragraphs and numbering them was enough to meet this standard of 'Skill and Judgment'. Whether this is the correct interpretation of the test as given in the CCH Canadian Case remains debatable. \n\nScientific literature considered as primary must contain original research, and even review articles contain original analysis or interpretation.\n\nAn original idea is one not thought up by another person beforehand. Sometimes, two or more people can come up with the same idea independently.\n\nThe evaluation of originality depends not only on the creative work itself, but also on the temporal context, the zeitgeist. In a study of the musical originality of 15,618 classical music themes, the importance of objective characteristics and the zeitgeist for popularity was examined. Both the musical originality of a theme relative to its contemporary works (the zeitgeist), as well as its \"absolute\" originality influenced in similar magnitude the popularity of a theme. Similarly, objective features and temporal context both influenced the evaluation of linguistic originality.\n\nAn original painting, photographic negative, analog audio, or video recording, will contain qualities that can be difficult, or under current technology may be impossible to copy in its full integrity. That can also apply for any other artifact.\n\nThat is why it is often necessary to preserve the original, in order to preserve its original integrity. The copy is made to preserve the original recording by saving the original from degenerating as it is being played, rather than to replace the original.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33411064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33411064", "title": "Paraguayan constitutional referendum, 1940", "text": "Paraguayan constitutional referendum, 1940\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Paraguay on 4 August 1940. It saw voters approve the new constitution.\n\nIn 1939 President José Félix Estigarribia responded to a political stalemate by dissolving Congress and declared himself absolute dictator. To dramatize his government's desire for change, he scrapped the existing constitution and produced a new one. The new constitution reflected Estigarribia's desire for stability and power and provided for an extremely powerful state and executive. The President would be elected in direct elections for a term of five years, with re-election permitted for one additional term. They would also be able to intervene in the economy, control the press, suppress private groups, suspend individual liberties, and take exceptional actions for the good of the state. The Senate was abolished and the Chamber of Representatives limited in power. A new advisory Council of State was created, modeled on the experience of corporatist Italy and Portugal, to represent group interests including business, farmers, bankers, the military, and the Roman Catholic Church. The military was responsible for safeguarding the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "1690294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690294", "title": "Positive law", "text": "Positive law\n\nPositive laws () are human-made laws that oblige or specify an action. It also describes the establishment of specific rights for an individual or group. Etymologically, the name derives from the verb \"to posit\".\n\nThe concept of positive law is distinct from \"natural law\", which comprises inherent rights, conferred not by act of legislation but by \"God, nature or reason.\" Positive law is also described as the law that applies at a certain time (present or past) and at a certain place, consisting of statutory law, and case law as far as it is binding. More specifically, positive law may be characterized as \"law actually and specifically enacted or adopted by proper authority for the government of an organized jural society.\"\n\nThomas Aquinas conflated man-made law (\"lex humana\") and positive law (\"lex posita\" or \"ius positivum\"). However, there is a subtle distinction between them. Whereas human-made law regards law from the position of its origins (i.e. who it was that posited it), positive law regards law from the position of its legitimacy. Positive law is law by the will of whoever made it, and thus there can equally be divine positive law as there is man-made positive law. Positive Law theory stems from the powers that have enacted it. This type of law is necessary as it is manmade or enacted by the state to protect the rights of the individuals, the governed, to resolve civil disputes and lastly to maintain order and safety in the society. (More literally translated, \"lex posita\" is posit\"ed\" rather than posit\"ive\" law.) In the \"Summa contra Gentiles\" Thomas himself writes of divine positive law where he says \"\"Si autem lex sit divinitus posita, auctoritate divina dispensatio fieri potest\" (if the law be divinely given, dispensation can be granted by divine authority)\" and \"\"Lex autem a Deo posita est\" (But the Law was established by God)\". Martin Luther also acknowledged the idea of divine positive law, as did Juan de Torquemada.\n\nThomas Mackenzie divided the law into four parts, with two types of positive law: divine positive law, natural law, the positive law of independent states, and the law of nations. The first, divine positive law, \"concerns the duties of religion\" and is derived from revelation. He contrasted it with divine \"natural\" law, which is \"recognized by reason alone, without the aid of revelation\". The third, the positive law of independent states, is the law posited by \"the supreme power in the state\". It is, in other words, man-made positive law. The fourth, the law of nations, regulates \"independent states in their intercourse with each other\".\n\nThomas Aquinas has little difficulty with the idea of both divine positive law and human positive law, since he places no requirements upon the person who posits law that exclude either humans or the divine. However, for other philosophers the idea of both divine and human positive law has proven to be a stumbling block. Thomas Hobbes and John Austin both espoused the notion of an ultimate sovereign. Where Thomism (and indeed Mackenzie) divided sovereignty into the spiritual (God) and the temporal (Mackenzie's \"supreme power in the state\"), both Hobbes and Austin sought a single, undivided, sovereign as the ultimate source of the law. The problem that this causes is that a temporal sovereign cannot exist if humans are subject to a divine positive law, but if divine positive law does not apply to all humans then God cannot be sovereign either. Hobbes and Austin's answer to this is to deny the existence of divine \"positive\" law, and to invest sovereignty in humans, that are — however — subject to divine \"natural\" law. The temporal authority is sovereign, and responsible for translating divine natural law into human positive law.\n\nJames Bernard Murphy explains: \"although our philosophers often seek to use the term \"positive\" to demarcate specifically human law, the term and concept are not well suited to do so. All of divine law is positive in source, and much of it is positive in content […].\"\n\nThis term is also sometimes used to refer to the legal philosophy \"legal positivism\", as distinct from the schools of natural law and legal realism. In this sense, the term is often used in relation to the United States Code, portions of which restate Acts of Congress (i.e., positive law), while other portions have themselves been enacted and are thus positive law.\n\nWith respect to the broader sense, various philosophers have put forward theories contrasting the value of positive law relative to natural law. The normative theory of law, as put forth by the Brno school, gave pre-eminence to positive law because of its rational nature. Classical liberal and libertarian philosophers usually favor natural law over legal positivism. Positive law, to French philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, was freedom from internal obstacles. Among the foremost proponents of legal positivism in the twentieth century was Hans Kelsen, both in his European years prior to 1940, and in his American years following 1940 until his death in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1041587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1041587", "title": "Prize court", "text": "Prize court\n\nA prize court is a court (or even a single individual, such as an ambassador or consul) authorized to consider whether prizes have been lawfully captured, typically whether a ship has been lawfully captured or seized in time of war or under the terms of the seizing ship's letters of marque and reprisal. A prize court may order the sale or destruction of the seized ship, and the distribution of any proceeds to the captain and crew of the seizing ship. A prize court may also order the return of a seized ship to its owners if the seizure was unlawful, such as if seized from a country which had proclaimed its neutrality.\n\nPrize courts were common in the 17th through 19th centuries, during times of American or European naval warfare. The United States in 1780 established the Federal Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture to hear appeals of prize cases from state prize courts; this court was ended in 1787, after conclusion of the war. Under current U.S. law, pursuant to , the district courts have exclusive jurisdiction in prize cases. Due to changes in the nature of naval warfare, no prize cases have been heard since the statutes were adopted in 1956.\n\nIn England and Wales, prize jurisdiction is exercised by the Admiralty Court, part of the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice (see Prize Courts Act 1894 and Senior Courts Act 1981, ss. 20(1)(d), 27 and 62(2)), and by way of appeal to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\n\nIn France, the prize council (Conseil des prises) has jurisdiction to determine the issue of the prize. Since 2007, piracy has been transferred to criminal courts. The council's jurisdiction is reduced to war time. The way of appeal is open to the President of the French Republic acting as judge.\n\nThe International Prize Court was an international court proposed at the beginning of the 20th century, to hear prize cases. An international agreement, the \"Convention Relative to the Creation of an International Prize Court\", was established at The Hague on October 18, 1907, but this was never ratified or implemented.\n"}
{"id": "883036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883036", "title": "Purveyance", "text": "Purveyance\n\nPurveyance is the right of the Crown to requisition goods and services for royal use, and was developed in England over the course of the late eleventh through the fourteenth centuries. In theory, the king's prerogative allowed him to collect goods needed for both household and military use, but the latter was discontinued in 1362. The primary problem with the system was that it was open to abuse from corrupt officials, who would often requisition goods and sell them for profit or use extortion and other means to obtain items or money that was not passed on or divulged to the king. Accordingly, English kings established numerous, though somewhat ineffectual, statutes in an attempt to limit the corruption.\n\nWhen Edward I and the English Army invaded Scotland, with little agricultural productivity, they used purveyances. The English court had, of old, a right of customary purchase of food for the poor. The right was called prise. Edward took this and grossly expanded it to make the institution called purveyance. The sheriffs would buy food at a set price in the shires and the sellers had to sell at the government price. The government then created a system to store the food. Edward created a convoy system to move mountains of food from the English Midlands to southern Scotland, which the English controlled. Administrative historians say this was a real triumph in organizational power of government, but also a racket because Edward paid late and low.\n\nEdward I also employed purveyances for his many Welsh campaigns, utilizing the produce of both the Isle of Anglesey and Ireland. Purveyance was largely the cause for intense dissatisfaction over Edward's campaign in Gascony of 1294–8, and in 1298, a nationwide investigation was held into abuses of royal administrators, including purveyors.\n\nPurveyance continued to be the favoured method of the English kings for obtaining food and other necessities for feeding their armies, supplying their castles and garrisons, and supporting their itinerant households. Both Edward II and Edward III used the system heavily: the former in his unsuccessful campaign against Scotland and then in the civil war against Thomas of Lancaster and the latter in his relatively successful campaign against Scotland and then in France during the Hundred Years' War. \n\nIt was under Edward III that the issue of corruption and abuses that accompanied the collection of goods for military use particularly came to a head. Complaints reached such a feverish pitch in the opening years of the Hundred Years' War that Edward III launched another nationwide investigation, and effectively removed most purveyors from office. However, purveyance was too valuable a royal privilege to surrender, and it was only in 1362, under intense pressure from Parliament, that Edward III agreed to discontinue purveyance for military use.\n\nWhen Henry V was preparing for war against France during the Hundred Years' War, he ordered the continuance of purveyance for military purposes, but with the supposed order for all purveyors to be fair and reasonable, not to take any goods from church property, and to pay a fair price. However, many of the purveyors behaved notoriously badly, extorting many foodstuffs from the peasants and either buying at a low price and selling at a high price for a profit, or not paying at all.\n\nFaced by a purveyor with armed men backing him, most peasants did not dare to resist. King Henry, acknowledging the corruption of his purveyors, included in a proclamation that anyone harassed or aggrieved by any captain or soldier should present themselves to the seneschal of the king's treasury. Complete justice, the king proclaimed, would be given on his arrival at Southampton. The retention of purveyance as a tool for supplying the growing royal household would eventually come under fire with the Stuarts.\n\nIn the 17th century, purveyance was worth about £40,000 per year to the crown. However, Parliament wanted to put an end to it, though James I would not relinquish that control without being financially compensated by Parliament. Parliament feared this would lead only to further corruption and no changes were made to the system during the reign of James I. During the Commonwealth an \"Act for taking away Purveyance and compositions for Purveyance\" was passed 12 December 1656 and given assent 9 June 1657. Since all laws of that period were declared null and void upon the Restoration, it would be the Tenures Abolition Act 1660, which finally abolished purveyance and other feudal charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "3555021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3555021", "title": "Red box (government)", "text": "Red box (government)\n\nDespatch boxes, also known as red boxes or sometimes ministerial boxes, are produced by Barrow Hepburn & Gale and are used by ministers in the British government to carry their documents. Similar in appearance to a briefcase, they are primarily used to hold and transport official departmental papers from place to place. They are not to be confused with the parliamentary despatch boxes from which speeches are given in Parliament, although ministerial boxes are also referred to as \"despatch boxes\" in government documents.\n\nAccording to HM Treasury,\n\nThe design of ministerial boxes has changed little since the 1860s. The boxes are manufactured in London by Barrow Hepburn & Gale. Covered in red-stained rams' leather, they are embossed with the Royal Cypher and ministerial title. The boxes are constructed of slow-grown pine, lined with lead and black satin and, unlike a briefcase, the lock is on the bottom, opposite the hinges and the handle, to guarantee that the box is locked before being carried.\n\nThe colour red has remained the traditional covering of the boxes. The lead lining, which has been retained in modern boxes, was once meant to ensure that the box sank when thrown overboard in the event of capture. Also bomb-proof, they are designed to survive any catastrophe that may befall their owner.\n\nExceptions to the red colouring are those carried by the government whips, which are covered in black leather. Discreet black boxes are also available for ministers who need to travel by train.\n\nOne box cost £865.43 in 2010. Between 2002 and 2007 the British Government spent £57,260 on new boxes.\n\nPerhaps the best known red box is the Budget Box, which is held up for a photoshoot outside 11 Downing Street, when the Chancellor of the Exchequer announces the Cabinet's annual budget plans. The first budget box was made for William Ewart Gladstone around 1860 and is lined in black satin and covered with scarlet leather. This box has been used by every Chancellor until 2011, with the exceptions of James Callaghan (1964–1967) and Gordon Brown (1997–2007), who had new ones commissioned in 1965 and 1997 respectively. Gladstone's budget box was used by Alistair Darling (2007–2010) and by George Osborne in June 2010. It was subsequently retired due to its fragility, and will be displayed in the Cabinet War Rooms. Since March 2011, a new budget box commissioned by The National Archives has been used.\n\nThe Budget Box of 1997 is made of yellow pine with a brass handle and lock, covered in scarlet leather and embossed with the Royal Cypher and the words \"Chancellor of the Exchequer\" directly beneath it.\n\nOther red boxes of note are the ones delivered to the British Sovereign every day (except Christmas Day and Easter Sunday) by government departments, via the Page of the Presence. These boxes contain Cabinet and Foreign and Commonwealth Office documents, most of which the monarch must sign and give Royal Assent to, before they can become law.\n\nPermanent Secretaries, who are civil servants rather than MPs or Lords, have similar boxes but coloured green. These have exactly the same function as the ministerial red boxes.\n\nFormer Singapore Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew was said to have used a red box similar to the British ones, the exception being the logo. Education Minister Heng Swee Keat, formerly Principal Private Secretary to Lee, revealed in a Facebook post that Lee continued using the red box till 4 February 2015, the day before his final hospitalisation.\n\nUntil the late 2000's the Minister of Finance used a red box with the national emblem to carry the Cabinet's annual budget plans, similar to the Budget Box of the British government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3359656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3359656", "title": "Rent control in Ontario", "text": "Rent control in Ontario\n\nRent control in Ontario refers to a system of rent regulation in Ontario, Canada which limits the amount by which the rent paid by tenants for rental accommodation can increase.\n\nRent regulation was first introduced in Ontario under the \"National Housing Act 1944\". After lobbying by business it was repealed in under a decade.\n\nThe modern history of rent controls began in July 1975 when the \"Residential Premises Rent Review Act 1975\" was enacted after the demand for rent controls became a major issue in the period leading to the 1975 provincial election. In 1979, the \"Residential Tenancies Act\" was enacted.\n\nIn 1985, the new Liberal government tightened rent controls with the \"Residential Rent Regulation Act\" and in 1992 the New Democratic Party government of Bob Rae passed the \"Rent Control Act 1992\". \nThe \"Tenant Protection Act 1997\" was enacted by the Progressive Conservative government of Mike Harris and proclaimed in June 1998. The Act retained selected rights and obligations contained in Part IV of the previous \"Landlord and Tenant Act\". (Parts I, II, and III were retitled the \"Commercial Tenancies Act\".) The \"Tenant Protection Act\" both repealed the \"Rent Control Act\" and removed the dispute resolution process of the \"Landlord Tenant Act\", including evictions and rent increases, from the Ontario court system and assigned jurisdiction to a newly created quasi-judicial body, the Ontario Rental Housing Tribunal. \n\nUnder the TPA landlord applications for eviction were automatically granted without a hearing unless the tenant filed a notice of dispute within five days. This provision had been the subject of a complaint to the Ontario Ombudsman and was removed from the new Act.\n\nThe \"Residential Tenancies Act, 2006\" is the current law in Ontario that governs landlord and tenant relations in residential rental accommodations. The Act received royal assent on June 22, 2006 and was proclaimed into law on January 31, 2007. The Act repealed and replaced the \"Tenant Protection Act\", 1997 and created the Landlord and Tenant Board as a replacement for the Ontario Rental Housing Tribunal.\n\nRent control in Ontario formerly only applied to units that were first built or occupied before November 1, 1991. If the rental unit was in an apartment building constructed (or converted from a non-residential use) after November 1, 1991, then the rent control provisions of the Residential Tenancies Act, 2006 did not apply. On April 20, 2017, Premier of Ontario Kathleen Wynne, along with Chris Ballard, Minister of Housing, announced the Fair Housing Plan. The plan includes a provision to roll-back the post-1991 rent control exemption such that all private rental units, including ones built or first occupied on or after November 1, 1991 will be subject to rent control. This change will be effective April 20, 2017 regardless of when the legislation is passed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33192076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33192076", "title": "Safe Streets and Communities Act", "text": "Safe Streets and Communities Act\n\nThe Safe Streets and Communities Act is a bill that was passed by the 41st Canadian Parliament 154-129 on March 12, 2012.\n\nWhen Parliament re-convened in September 2011, the Minister of Justice introduced the \"Safe Streets and Communities Act\", an omnibus bill of nine separate measures. The measures include replacing the pardon system with 'record suspensions', mandatory minimum sentences for certain sexual offences and mandatory minimum penalties for certain drug offences, making it illegal to make sexually explicit information available to a child, increasing prison sentences for marijuana offences, reducing the ability of judges to sentence certain offenders to house arrest, allowing immigration officers to deny work permits to foreigners who are at risk of being sexually exploited, and enabling Canadians to sue state sponsors of terrorism for losses due to an act of terrorism.\n\nA particularly contentious aspect of the bill was the proposed enhancement of powers given to government authorities to monitor online communications, but this proposal was abandoned after an online petition opposing those measures garnered over 70,000 signatures.\n\nOne of the smaller bills incorporated into this legislation was Bill C-23B, formerly called \"Eliminating Pardons for Serious Offences.\" This section made significant changes to the country's pardon laws. Part 3 of the bill replaced the term \"pardon\" with \"Record Suspension\" and eliminated pardons for those with Schedule 1 criminal offences on their record or those with more than three offences each carrying a sentence of two years or more. \n\nThe bill caused much controversy. While the Canadian Police Association said the bill would work towards keeping communities more safe, it added it was concerned about the cost. The Quebec government said it would refuse to pay for the bill, calling it a short-term \"Band-Aid solution.\" The Ontario government would also refuse to pay. Texan conservatives Judge John Creuzot, Republican Representative Jerry Madden, and Marc Levin also spoke out against the bill; according to Madden, \"It's a very expensive thing to build new prisons and, if you build them, I guarantee you they will come. They'll be filled, OK? Because people will send them there.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1637340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637340", "title": "Shafer Commission", "text": "Shafer Commission\n\nThe Shafer Commission, formally known as the National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse, was appointed by U.S. President Richard Nixon in the early 1970s. Its chairman was former Pennsylvania Governor Raymond P. Shafer. The commission issued a report on its findings in 1972 that called for the decriminalization of marijuana possession in the United States. The report was ignored by the White House, but is an important document against prohibition.\nWhile the Controlled Substances Act was being drafted in a House committee in 1970, Assistant Secretary of Health Roger O. Egeberg had recommended that marijuana temporarily be placed in Schedule I, the most restrictive category of drugs, pending the Commission's report. On March 22, 1972, the Commission's chairman, Raymond P. Shafer, presented a report to Congress and the public entitled \"Marihuana, A Signal of Misunderstanding,\" which favored ending marijuana prohibition and adopting other methods to discourage use.\n\nThe Commission's report said that while public sentiment tended to view marijuana users as dangerous, they actually found users to be more timid, drowsy and passive. It concluded that cannabis did not cause widespread danger to society. It recommended using social measures other than criminalization to discourage use. It compared the situation of cannabis to that of alcohol.\n\nThe Commission's proposed decriminalization of marijuana possession was opposed, in 1974, by the recommendations of a congressional subcommittee chaired by Senator James Eastland.\n\nThe Nixon administration did not implement the recommendations from The National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse. However, the report has frequently been cited by individuals supporting removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35550469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35550469", "title": "South Australia v Totani", "text": "South Australia v Totani\n\nSouth Australia v Totani is a landmark Australian judgment of the High Court concerning the extent to which the legislative power of an Australian State is limited by the separation of powers in the Commonwealth Constitution. The High Court held that the legislative power of a State does not extend to enacting a law which deprives a court of the State of one of its defining characteristics as a court or impairs one or more of those characteristics.\n\nIn 2008 there was a move for controlling the activities of Outlaw Motorcycle clubs by numerous Australian State Governments that culminated in the South Australian Parliament introducing the Serious and Organised Crime (Control) Act 2008. The effect of this legislation was to allow… \"the making of declarations and orders for the purpose of disrupting and restricting the activities of criminal organisations, their members and associates\". The essence of the scheme was that the Attorney-General could make a declaration, to the effect that the members of an organisation were involved in serious criminal activity and that there was a risk to public safety and order. If The Commissioner of Police could then apply to the Magistrates Court for a control order against any member of a declared organisation. There was no requirement that the person be notified of the application, nor that that person had committed or was ever likely to commit a criminal offence.\n\nThe court did not have any discretion whether a control order should be made, with the section 14(1) providing:\n\"The Court must, on application by the Commissioner, make a control order against a person (the defendant) if the Court is satisfied that the defendant is a member of a declared organisation.\"\n\nOn 14 May 2009 the Attorney-General considered that the members of the Finks Motorcycle Club were involved in serious criminal activity and made a declaration in relation to the club under section 10 of the Act.\n\nThe Commissioner of Police applied for a control order against a member of the Finks Motorcycle Club, Donald Hudson, who was not notified of the application and the Magistrates Court made the control order. The Commissioner of Police applied for a control order against another member, Sandro Totani. Both men made an application to the Supreme Court of South Australia, claiming that parts of the Serious and Organised Crime (Control) Act were invalid, and that the declaration made by the Attorney-General was also invalid. The Full Court of the Supreme Court held by a 2:1 majority that section 14(1) of the Act was invalid, but that section 10 which authorised the declaration by the Attorney-General, by itself, was a valid exercise of the legislative power of the State. Bleby J relied upon the decisions of the High Court in \"Kable v Director of Public Prosecutions (NSW)\" and \"Thomas v Mowbray\". This included references to the judgement of Gummow and Crennan JJ where their Honours said at [111]:As a general proposition, it may be accepted that legislation which requires a court exercising federal jurisdiction to depart to a significant degree from the methods and standards which have characterised judicial activities in the past may be repugnant to Ch III.\n\nBleby J also cited the dissent of Kirby J in \"Thomas v Mowbray\" where his Honour said at [366]:\"Requiring such courts, as of ordinary course, to issue orders ex parte, that deprive an individual of basic civil rights, on the application of officers of the Executive Branch of Government and upon proof to the civil standard alone that the measures are reasonably necessary to protect the public from a future terrorist act, departs from the manner in which, for more than a century, the judicial power of the Commonwealth has been exercised under the Constitution.\"The State of South Australia then appealed that decision to the High Court of Australia.\n\nThis appeal was dismissed by the High Court 6:1 with only Heydon J dissenting.\n\nA majority of the Court considered that s 14(1) of the Act obliged the Magistrates Court to impose serious restraints on a person's liberty whether or not that person had committed or was ever likely to commit a criminal offence. The provision authorised the executive to enlist the Magistrates Court in implementing decisions of the executive and that the manner in which that occurred was incompatible with the Magistrates Court's institutional integrity as an independent and impartial tribunal. French CJ held at [26] that the legislative power of a State does not extend to enacting a law which deprives a court of the State of one of its defining characteristics as a court or impairs one or more of those characteristics. The courts decision was based in part on their concern that the Act infringed common law freedoms for the individuals involved, but mostly on the prospect of a Parliament directing courts was inconsistent with the separation of powers under the Commonwealth Constitution which applied to the state Magistrates Court as a repository of federal judicial power under section 71 of the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "1550867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1550867", "title": "Term loan", "text": "Term loan\n\nA term loan is a monetary loan that is repaid in regular payments over a set period of time. Term loans usually last between one and ten years, but may last as long as 30 years in some cases. A term loan usually involves an unfixed interest rate that will add additional balance to be repaid.\n\nTerm loans can be given on an individual basis, but are often used for small business loans. The ability to repay over a long period of time is attractive for new or expanding enterprises, as the assumption is that they will increase their profit over time. Term loans are a good way of quickly increasing capital in order to raise a business’ supply capabilities or range. For instance, some new companies may use a term loan to buy company vehicles or rent more space for their operations.\n\nOne thing to consider when getting a term loan is whether the interest rate is fixed or floating. A fixed interest rate means that the percentage of interest will never increase, regardless of the financial market. Low-interest periods are usually an excellent time to take out a fixed rate loan. Floating interest rates will fluctuate with the market, which can be good or bad for you depending on what happens with the global and national economy. Since some term loans last for 10 years, betting that the rate will stay consistently low is a real risk.\n\nAlso, consider whether the term loan you are looking at uses compound interest. If it does, the amount of interest will be periodically added to the principal borrowed amount, meaning that the interest keeps getting higher the longer the term lasts. If the loan does use compound interest, check to see if there are any penalties for early repayment of the loan. If you get a windfall or profits increase spectacularly, you may be able to pay off your entire balance before it is due, preventing you from paying additional interest by waiting for the loan term to end.\n\nSome loaning institutions offer a variety of repayment plans for your term loan. Commonly, you may choose to pay off your debt in even amounts, or the amount you pay will gradually increase over the loan period. If you expect that you will be more financially able to repay in the future, causing an incremental increase may help you and save you interest. If you are unsure of your future monetary position, even payments may help prevent defaulting on the loan if things go badly.\n\nChoosing a term loan may be in your best interest, depending on your circumstances. Beware of extremely long repayment periods, as generally speaking, the longer the term, the more you will owe because the interest accrues over a long period of time. For more information, contact a financial advisor or speak to your bank about loan options they provide.\n"}
{"id": "18935675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935675", "title": "Time shifting", "text": "Time shifting\n\nAs it relates to the circadian rhythm, timeshifting is the action of someone who is using individually timed light exposure and light avoidance, sleep and napping episodes, and/or melatonin use to adapt their circadian rhythm more quickly to a new sleep/wake and light/dark schedule in order to reduce jet lag or adapt to a new work schedule, or reset their circadian rhythm to ensure peak performance when needed, or in preparation for medical treatment.\n\nIn broadcasting, time shifting is the recording of programming to a storage medium to be viewed or listened to after the live broadcasting. Typically, this refers to TV programming but can also refer to radio shows via podcasts.\n\nIn recent years, the advent of the digital video recorder (DVR) has made time shifting easier, by using an electronic program guide (EPG) and recording shows onto a hard disk. Some DVRs have other possible time shifting methods, such as being able to start watching the recorded show from the beginning even if the recording is not yet complete. In the past, time shifting was done with a video cassette recorder (VCR) and its timer function, in which the VCR tunes into the appropriate station and records the show onto video tape. \n\nCertain broadcasters transmit timeshifted versions of their channels, usually one hour in the future, to enable those without recording abilities to resolve conflicts and those with recording abilities more flexibility in scheduling conflicting recordings. (See timeshift channel.)\n\nThe major legal issue involved in time shifting concerns \"fair use\" law and the possibility of copyright infringement. This legal issue is first raised in the landmark court case of \"Sony Corp. of America v. Universal City Studios, Inc.\" or the \"Betamax case\".\nIn 1979, Universal sued Sony, claiming its timed recording capability amounted to copyright infringement. The Supreme Court of the United States found in favor of Sony; the majority decision held that time shifting was a fair use, represented no substantial harm to the copyright holder and would not contribute to a diminished marketplace for its product.\n\nBy 1985 cable movie channels encouraged time shifting by broadcasting films subscribers wanted for their home libraries overnight, so their VCRs could record them while they slept. Some providers, such as satellite TV companies, have introduced digital video recorder (DVR) features allowing consumers to skip over advertising entirely when watching a program which has been recorded to their DVR. The legality of this service, for which an extra fee can be assessed, has been challenged by television broadcasters, who assert that this form of time shifting is a violation of their copyright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49369768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49369768", "title": "Timeline of the South China Sea dispute", "text": "Timeline of the South China Sea dispute\n\nThe article covers events that are related to the South China Sea dispute.\n\nThe Sa Huỳnh culture flourished in coastal South China Sea, especially in southern to central Vietnam, from Mekong Delta to Quảng Bình province. The people that support Sa Huỳnh civilization were sea faring Austronesian-speaking people. The Sa Huỳnh relics can be found in several sites on the coasts of South China Sea, from Palawan in the Philippines to Orchid Island near Taiwan, suggesting that they sailed, settled and traded around the coasts of South China Sea.\n\nIt has been claimed by the People's Republic of China on the argument that since 200 BC Chinese fishermen have used the Spratly islands.\n\nTwo famous Chinese books authored by Wan Zhen of the Eastern Wu State and published during the Three Kingdoms period (220–280 AD) and a work titled \"Guangzhou Ji\" (Chronicles of Guangzhou) authored by Pei Yuan of the Jin dynasties described the Paracel and Spratly islands. The local government of the Jin dynasties exercised jurisdiction over the islands by sending patrolling naval boats to the surrounding sea areas.\n\nNaval forces of the Song State of the Southern Dynasties (420–479 AD) patrolled the Paracel and Spratly islands. In the Tang dynasty (618–907 AD), the islands were placed under the administration and authority of the Qiongzhou Perfecture (now Hainan Province). Chinese administration of the South China Sea continued into the North and South Song dynasties (970–1279).\n\nArchaeologists have found Chinese made potteries porcelains and other historical relics from the Southern dynasties (420–589), the Sui dynasties (581–618), the Tang dynasty (618–907), the Song dynasties (960–1279), the Yuan dynasties (1206–1368), the Ming dynasty (1368–1644) and later eras up to modern times on the South China Sea islands.\n\nThe South China Sea was known as the \"Osean sea\" by ShauShau the explorer and traders in the region. It was named after a Hindu thalassocratic empire Champa that flourished in the actual central Vietnam around that period.\n\nIn 1596, the Spanish Colonial Government declared that each island in the Kalayaan Islands, now known as the Spratly Islands, had Barangay or Barrio status.\n\nPLA troops and PRC archaeologists 'discovered' these markers between 1974 and 1979 and the fiction of the primary sources less 1902 expedition was created.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54502094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54502094", "title": "Truth in Music Advertising", "text": "Truth in Music Advertising\n\nThe Truth in Music Advertising act or bill, also known as Truth in Music Performance Advertising or simply Truth in Music, is legislation, adopted into state law by most U.S. states, that aims to protect the trademark of musical recording artists. The legislation provides that the name of a famous musical group cannot be used by a group of performers unless they include at least one member of the original group. The intent of the legislation is to prevent unfair or deceptive trade practices, and to protect the livelihood of musicians who were in famous musical groups.\n\nThe legislation, co-authored by former Sha Na Na member Jon \"Bowzer\" Bauman and promoted by him and Mary Wilson of the Supremes, was not passed by the U.S. Congress, but has been enacted in 34 of the 50 states. The legislation has been tested in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.\nFrom 1977 to 1981, Jon \"Bowzer\" Bauman hosted other musicians on his television show \"Sha Na Na\". He talked with Carl Gardner of the Coasters and Charlie Thomas of the Drifters, discovering in the process that they were being victimized by \"knock-off\" groups of performers using the name of a famous group without having a member of that group. Ben E. King said he, Thomas and Bill Pinkney were losing out on potential gigs and income because there were \"so many fake Drifters performing\".<ref name=\"20/20 ABC News 2007\"></ref> Herb Reed of the Platters told Bauman that his group had experienced \"about 30\" court cases fighting against fake groups. Researching the laws, Bauman found that the original musicians had scant legal protection against their group name being used by promoters or other performers, so he determined to amend the existing laws to increase protection for the original musicians. He allied with the Vocal Group Hall of Fame (VGHF) to bring famous musicians together to help promote these new laws. VGHF President Bob Crosby said of the fake groups \"It's a form of identity theft to the artists... Most importantly it is misleading the public for them to think they are seeing the artist who made the hits when they are not.\" Mary Wilson of the Supremes joined the effort, appearing with Bauman before the US Congress in March 1999. She said \"We want these fake groups to say they are tribute groups or get their own name.\"\n\nThe Drifters formed in 1953 with singer Clyde McPhatter and manager George Treadwell sharing the name equally. McPhatter sold his half to Treadwell in 1954, giving Treadwell full control of the Drifters' name, an action that he later regretted, because it caused financial problems for his fellow musicians. Treadwell died in 1967, leaving his widow, Faye Treadwell, as manager of the group. In 1969, the founder and editor of \"Rock Magazine\", Larry Marshak, planned a series of concerts to be performed by classic vocal groups including the Drifters. Former Drifter Ben E. King responded that he would not perform, but he referred Marshak to Charlie Thomas, Elsbeary Hobbs and Doc Green, who agreed. Thomas, Hobbs and Green continued to perform as the Drifters under Marshak's management through the 1970s. However, starting in 1972, Faye Treadwell revived the Drifters in the UK. Faye Treadwell and Marshak sued each other several times over the rights to the group name, with Treadwell winning the rights to the Drifters name in July 1999, Judge Nicholas H. Politan presiding in the case \"Marshak v. Treadwell, et al\".\n\nMarshak appealed the decision to the Third Circuit. Federal Judges Samuel Alito, Maryanne Trump Barry and Ruggero J. Aldisert determined in February 2001 that Marshak's 1978 trademark registration for the Drifters name must be canceled as invalid, and that Marshak must stop using the Drifters' name in business. Marshak was ordered to tell the court how much money he had made on performances by the Drifters.\n\nAfter learning of Faye Treadwell's declining health, daughter Tina Treadwell left her position as vice president at Disney to continue the court battle, filing parallel lawsuits in the US and the UK in December 2006. Tina Treadwell said of Marshak and his associates, \"They've diluted the brand with impostors.\" \"20/20\" reported in 2007 that promoters Charles Mehlich and Larry Marshak were being sued in New Jersey for using the Drifters' name. Marshak, his associate Barry Singer, and their attorney William L. Charron countersued, charging that New Jersey's Attorney General Anne Milgram should not have issued subpoenas to the Atlantic City Hilton Casino in her effort to enforce the state's recently passed Truth in Music law, to stop performances by groups billed as the Platters, the Drifters and the Coasters. The countersuit was seen as the first legal challenge to the Truth in Music legislation. In September 2007, U.S. District Judge Dickinson R. Debevoise found Marshak in contempt of court for continuing to use the group names after the 1999 injunction against him doing so. The court discovered that Marshak had employed business associates and his relatives to run legal entities which promoted concerts by the Platters, the Coasters and the Drifters despite having no original singers among the performers. Debevoise called this deceptive business practice \"an elaborate shell game.\" Marshak appealed, but lost in July 2009.\n\nBarry Singer's business, Singer Management Consultants, was ordered to pay $24 million in damages, with $9 million going to Faye Treadwell, but Singer filed for personal bankruptcy under Chapter 7. In September 2010, a federal appeals court determined that Singer must pay Treadwell regardless of his bankruptcy filing. Faye Treadwell died in 2011.\n\nThe Truth in Music legislation was dealt a blow in August 2010 after a federal appeals court ordered the state of New Jersey to pay \"significant\" attorney's fees to Marshak and his associates.\n\nIn March 1999, during the 106th Congress, Representative Dennis Kucinich introduced a \"Truth in Rock\" bill (H.R. 1125). Musicians Jon \"Bowzer\" Bauman testified in support of the bill before the House Intellectual Property Subcommittee; Mary Wilson also lobbied for the legislation. The bill was intended \"to amend the Trademark Act of 1946 to increase the penalties for infringing the rights pertaining to famous performing groups and to clarify the law pertaining to the rights of individuals who perform services as a group.\" The bill \"died\" (was not recommended for further action.)\n\nPennsylvania was the first state to pass the legislation, doing so in October 2005, effective December 2005.\n\nSponsored by State Senator Andrew J. McDonald, Connecticut passed the legislation as \"An Act Concerning Truth in Music Advertising\", effective July 1, 2006.\n\nIllinois passed the law in 2006.\n\nNorth Dakota passed the law in 2006.\n\nSouth Carolina passed the law in 2006 as a new section of their existing chapter on unfair trade practices. The section is titled \"Deceptive or misleading advertisement of live musical performance; injunction; penalty.\"\n\nMassachusetts State Senator Marc R. Pacheco introduced the bill, which passed into law in 2006.\n\nMichigan State Senator Martha G. Scott introduced the bill in March 2006, and it was debated in June. It passed the State Senate in July, then the House in December. The law came in to effect on December 29, 2006, directly after being signed by Governor Jennifer Granholm.\n\nAs sponsored by State Senator Anthony Portantino, California considered the legislation during early 2007, a state analyst noting that the proposed bill duplicated the protections already available under the state's existing unfair practices provisions, the 1872 California Unfair Competition Law. Regardless, the Truth in Music Advertising Act was passed later in 2007, to come into effect on January 1, 2008.\n\nIntroduced by Virginia Delegate David Albo who is also the leader of his band Planet Albo, Virginia passed the legislation after discussing it in January–February 2007.\n\nTennessee passed the legislation as \"Tennessee Truth in Music Advertising Act\", part of their Consumer Protection laws. The bill, SB0262, became effective on May 30, 2007, upon the signature of the governor.\n\nFlorida passed the legislation in June 2007; the State Senate passed the bill unanimously.\n\nNew Jersey heard the proposed legislation in December 2006. The state passed the bill in May 2007.\n\nNevada's Assembly passed the legislation unanimously in May 2007. After the Senate passed the bill, Governor Jim Gibbons signed it into law on May 31, 2007.\n\nCo-sponsored by State Senator Spencer Coggs, Wisconsin heard arguments for the legislation in March 2007. The Senate and Assembly passed the bill without debate in May. Governor Jim Doyle signed the bill into law in July 2007. The statute 100.185 is titled \"Fraud, advertising musical performances.\"\n\nMaine's State Representative Elaine Makas introduced the bill in February 2007. It passed in August 2007.\n\nSponsored by State Senator John J. Flanagan and Assemblyman Peter M. Rivera, the state of New York passed the legislation, effective starting September 14, 2007.\n\nThe Indiana House of Representatives voted unanimously to pass the bill in February 2008. State Representative Bruce Borders, who is also an Elvis impersonator, co-sponsored the legislation in the House. State Senator Bob Deig sponsored the bill in the Senate, where it also passed. The bill was signed into law by Governor Mitch Daniels in March 2008.\n\nColorado heard arguments for the legislation in February 2008. The bill was passed in April 2008. The law was revised in 2016.\n\nMinnesota debated the legislation in March 2007. The bill became law effective August 2008.\n\nOhio's State Senator Bob Schuler introduced the bill in January 2008. The bill was signed into law in January 2009 by Governor Ted Strickland.\n\nIntroduced by State Representative Mike Thompson, Oklahoma passed the bill in February 2009.\n\nArkansas passed the legislation in March 2009.\n\nSponsored by Reprentative Greg Hughes, Utah's House passed the bill unanimously in March 2009 as \"Truth in Music\". The Senate passed it, then Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. signed it into law on March 23, 2009.\n\nCo-sponsored by State Representative Peter Petrarca and State Senator John J. Tassoni Jr, Rhode Island heard arguments for the legislation in March 2008, the bill titled \"An Act Relating to Businesses and Professions – Musical Advertising.\" In June, the Senate passed the bill unanimously. The bill became law in 2008.\n\nDelaware considered the bill in March 2006 but it died in committee in June that year. The bill was discussed again in 2007–2008 and was signed into law July 2008, effective September 10, 2008.\n\nNew Mexico's State Representative Al Park sponsored the bill which was passed by the House in March 2009.\n\nSponsored by State Senator David F. Weinstein, North Carolina passed the legislation in 2009. The bill was titled \"An Act to Prohibit the Advertising and Conducting of Certain Live Musical Performances or Productions, to Provide for Enforcement, and to Impose a Penalty.\"\n\nSponsored by Karen Keiser, Washington considered the legislation during February–April 2009, with both the Senate and the House voting unanimously to pass the bill. On April 16, 2009, the bill was signed into law by Governor Christine Gregoire.\n\nCo-sponsored in the House by State Representatives Jackie Cilley and Robert \"Bob\" Perry, and in the Senate by State Senator Matthew Houde, New Hampshire heard arguments for the legislation in April 2009. Titled \"An Act prohibiting the advertising and conducting of certain live musical performances or productions\", the bill was signed into law in August 2009, to become effective on January 1, 2010.\n\nOregon passed the legislation in 2009, the effective date set at January 1, 2010.\n\nMaryland heard State Senator Michael G. Lenett introduce the bill in February 2008, and passed the legislation in 2010 as the \"Truth in Music Advertising Act\".\n\nKansas heard arguments for the legislation in February 2009, with Jon \"Bowzer\" Bauman appearing before the lawmakers. The bill was passed in 2010 as the \"Truth in musical performance advertising act.\"\n\nMississippi passed the law in 2010.\n\nSponsored by State Senator John \"Dick\" Crosby, Georgia considered the legislation during March 2009, but the bill died in chamber. In April 2010 the bill was recommended for further action. The bill passed in 2014.\n\nAlabama considered the legislation in early 2008, and again in early 2010. The bill died in chamber. Alaska, Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, South Dakota, Texas, Vermont, West Virginia and Wyoming have not passed the legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9797936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797936", "title": "UK Green Building Council", "text": "UK Green Building Council\n\nThe UK Green Building Council (UKGBC) is a United Kingdom membership organisation, formed in 2007, which aims to 'radically transform' the way that the built environment in the UK is planned, designed, constructed, maintained and operated.\n\nThe Council is concerned about the environmental impact of buildings and infrastructure on the environment, in particular the use of water, materials, energy, the impact of greenhouse gas emissions, and the health of building occupants.\n\nThe organisation was founded in the autumn of 2006 and launched on February 2007 in response to the 2004 Sustainable Building Task Group Report \"Better Buildings - Better Lives\", which recommended the UK Government should \"review the advisory bodies concerned with sustainable buildings to simplify and consolidate them and to provide clear direction to the industry\" (para 1.8, p.7).\n\nIts first CEO was Paul King (formerly head of campaigns at WWF), who filled the role from its inception until December 2014.The current CEO is Julie Hirigoyen .\n\nUKGBC is a charitable organisation, and - through the World Green Building Council - is part of a global network of like-minded organisations in almost 80 countries. Its headquarters is at The Building Centre in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "7393786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7393786", "title": "UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration", "text": "UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration\n\nThe UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration was prepared by UNCITRAL, and adopted by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law on 21 June 1985. In 2006 the model law was amended, it now includes more detailed provisions on interim measures. \n\nThe model law is not binding, but individual states may adopt the model law by incorporating it into their domestic law (as, for example, Australia did, in the International Arbitration Act 1974, as amended).\n\nThe model law was published in English and in French. Translations in all six United Nations languages now exist.\n\nNote that there is a difference between the UNCITRAL \"Model Law\" on International Commercial Arbitration (1985) and the UNCITRAL \"Arbitration Rules\". On its website, UNCITRAL explains the difference as follows: \"The UNCITRAL Model Law provides a pattern that law-makers in national governments can adopt as part of their domestic legislation on arbitration. The UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules, on the other hand, are selected by parties either as part of their contract, or after a dispute arises, to govern the conduct of an arbitration intended to resolve a dispute or disputes between themselves. Put simply, the Model Law is directed at States, while the Arbitration Rules are directed at potential (or actual) parties to a dispute.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51666329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51666329", "title": "United States v. Rehlander", "text": "United States v. Rehlander\n\nUnited States v. Rehlander was a 2011 case heard in the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. It struck down a Maine law providing that temporary commitment triggered automatic revocation of a patient's firearms license.\n\nThe court held that the firearms ban could only apply to individuals who had received due process through a judicial hearing.\n"}
