{"id": "23766776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23766776", "title": "1987 Constitution of Ethiopia", "text": "1987 Constitution of Ethiopia\n\nThe 1987 Constitution of Ethiopia was the third constitution of Ethiopia, and went into effect on 22 February 1987 after a referendum on 1 February of that year. Its adoption inaugurated the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE).\n\nThe document consisted of seventeen chapters and 119 articles. The preamble traced Ethiopia's origins back to antiquity, proclaimed the historical heroism of its people, praised the country's substantial natural and human resources, and pledged to continue the struggle against imperialism, poverty, and hunger. The government's primary concern was proclaimed to be the country's development through the implementation of the Program for the National Democratic Revolution, which kasahun ankosa had proclaimed in a speech 20 April 1976. In the process, it was assumed that the material and technical bases necessary for establishing socialism would be created.\n\nThe constitution attempted to situate Ethiopia in the context of the worldwide movement of \"progressive states\" and made no direct reference to Africa. Critics claim that the constitution was no more than an abridged version of the 1977 Soviet constitution, with the exception of the sweeping powers vested in the presidency. A second difference between the Ethiopian and Soviet constitutions is that the former declared the country to be a unitary state rather than a union of republics. It was reported that the problem of nationalities was hotly debated in the Constitutional Commission, as well as in the WPE Central Committee, but the regime would not abandon its desire to create a single multiethnic state rather than a federation.\n\nThe 835-member legislature, the National Shengo, was defined as the highest organ of state power. Its members were elected to five-year terms. Executive power was vested in a president, elected by the National Shengo for a five-year term, and a cabinet also appointed by the Shengo. The president was chairman of the Council of State, which acted for the legislature between sessions.\n\nActual power, however, rested in the Workers' Party of Ethiopia, defined as the leading force of state and society. More specifically, actual power rested with Mengistu, who was not only president of the country but general secretary of the WPE. He and the other surviving members of the Derg dominated the WPE's Politburo. In essence, the power structure set up by the constitution was a carbon copy of the power structure in other Communist countries. The party was granted even more power than the government, which acted more or less as a transmission belt for the party. As was the case with other Communist legislatures, the National Shengo was nominally vested with great lawmaking powers, but actually did little more than rubber-stamp decisions already made by the WPE and its Politburo.\n\nThe Constitution guaranteed all manner of civil rights and personal freedoms, such as freedom of speech, the press, religion, movement, assembly, and association. Citizens also had the right to a fair trial and a free education. In practice, as in all Communist regimes, the government paid almost no attention to these freedoms. As had been the case during the Derg era, Ethiopia ranked at or near the bottom of most measures of human rights and civil liberties.\n\nThe primary task facing the Workers' Party of Ethiopia (WPE) following its formation in 1984 was to devise the new national constitution that would inaugurate the PDRE. In March 1986, a 343-member Constitutional Commission was formed to draft a new constitution based on the principles of scientific socialism. Eventually, the 122 full and alternate members of the WPE Central Committee who had been appointed to its membership dominated the commission.\n\nThe Constitutional Commission had its origins in the Institute for the Study of Ethiopian Nationalities, which the Provisional Military Administrative Council (better known as the Derg) had established March 1983 to find solutions to problems resulting from Ethiopia's vast ethnic diversity. The Institute was staffed mostly by academics from Addis Ababa University, who continued to serve as advisers to the Constitutional Commission. The commission's diverse membership included religious leaders, artists, writers, doctors, academics, athletes, workers, and former nobility. There was also an attempt by those who chose appointees to the commission to make sure that all major ethnic nationalities had representation in the body.\n\nFor about six months, the commission debated the details of the new constitution. In June 1986, it issued a 120-article draft document. The government printed and distributed 1 million copies to kebeles and peasant associations throughout the country. During the next two months, the draft was discussed at about 25,000 locations. The regime used this method of discussion to legitimize the constitution-making process and to test the mood of the populace. In some cases, people attended constitutional discussion sessions only after pressure from local WPE cadres, but in other cases attendance was voluntary. Where popular interest was apparent, it centered on issues such as taxes, the role of religion, marriage, the organization of elections, and citizenship rights and obligations. By far the most controversial draft provision was the one that outlawed polygamy, which caused a furor among Muslims. Few questions were raised about the document's failure to address the nationalities problem and the right to self-determination. According to government officials, the citizenry submitted more than 500,000 suggested revisions. In August the commission reconvened to consider proposed amendments. In all, the commission accepted ninety-five amendments to the original draft, most of which, however, were cosmetic.\n\nThe national referendum on the constitution was held on 1 February 1987, and Mengistu announced the results three weeks later. He reported that 96 percent of the 14 million people eligible to participate (adults eighteen years of age and older) actually voted. Eighty-one percent of the electorate endorsed the constitution, while 18 percent opposed it (1 percent of the ballots were invalid). Although this was the first election in Ethiopia's history based on universal suffrage, the presence of WPE cadres throughout the country ensured that the constitution would be adopted. In Tigray and Eritrea, however, the regime held referendums only in urban centers because much of these territories was controlled by the Tigray People's Liberation Front and the Eritrean People's Liberation Front, respectively. In other places, such as parts of Welo and Gondar regions, the vote took place amid heightened security measures.\n\nAlthough the constitution officially took effect on the same day the PDRE was proclaimed 22 February 1987, it was not until that September the new government was fully in place and the Derg formally abolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "54936638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54936638", "title": "2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft", "text": "2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft\n\nThe 2011 Montreal Museum of Fine Arts theft took place in two separate incidents during September and October of that year. In both instances, the same thief took a small ancient stone piece that was openly exhibited, without a protective case, and smuggled it out of the museum. One has since been recovered; however, the thief remains unidentified and the whereabouts of the other is not known.\n\nOn September 3, one day before the anniversary of the 1972 robbery of 18 paintings, a visitor took a sandstone Achaemenid Empire relief. In late October, he returned to take a Roman marble head from its pedestal. The two works were collectively valued at $1.3 million, with the relief accounting for almost all of that amount. \n\nThe museum did not disclose the theft until February 2012 to avoid compromising the joint investigation by its insurance company and Sureté du Québec's art theft unit. Security camera footage allowed them to obtain a description of the thief; investigators believed he was local. A reward was offered for the return of the works.\n\nIn 2013, police were led to Simon Metke, an Edmonton man who had bought the Achaemenid piece for CDN$1,400 during a visit to Montreal two years earlier, believing it to possibly be a replica, after it was seen on a wall behind him during a CBC interview unrelated to the case. The museum ultimately declined to buy it back from their insurer and it was put on the market in late 2016. Charges laid against Metke were disposed with a conditional discharge after he pled guilty to possession of stolen property. Metke's story inspired a character in Kevin Smith's 2016 film \"Yoga Hosers\", as well as the film's title.\n\nOn September 3, 2011, a visitor who came to the museum shortly after it opened removed a sandstone relief depicting a soldier's head, produced during the Achaemenid Empire, which ruled Persia during the 5th century BCE. It was small and secured to the wall it was on only by an anchor, and otherwise unprotected by glass. The museum staff has not been able to determine how it was removed. Coincidentally, the theft occurred on the day before the 39th anniversary of the only other theft from the museum, the 1972 robbery of 18 paintings, all but one of which are still missing, the largest art theft in Canadian history.\n\nThe thief returned approximately eight weeks later, in late October, at the same time of day. This time he took a 1st-century Roman marble head, approximately the same size, from its pedestal. Like the earlier piece, it was secured there by an anchor, but otherwise unprotected, not even by a glass case.\n\nWhen it discovered the pieces, both of which were part of the museum's permanent collection, missing, the museum called the Sureté du Québec's (SQ) art theft unit, the only one in any Canadian provincial police force, and AXA, its insurance company, which also dispatched a team of art-theft specialists. They investigated the case jointly. After reviewing security camera footage and interviewing museum staff who had been on duty the days of the thefts, they identified a suspect, a man tall who wore a baseball cap and dark jacket as he walked around the museum. They believed he spoke French and lived in the Montreal area.\n\nThe museum did not publicly disclose the thefts until January 2012 in order to avoid compromising the investigation. When it did inform the news media, it released a description of the suspect and offered rewards for both the thief's identity and the safe return of the missing items. It put their combined value at $1.3 million, most of which was accounted for by the older, Achaemenid piece, with the Roman head valued at a mere $40,000.\n\nJohn Fossey, an archaeologist, told CTV later that he believed the two pieces had not been stolen to order but simply because they were \"small [and] easy to put in the bag.\" Another expert involved, art-theft investigator Mark Dalrymple, observed that the case was similar to a series of 2004 thefts from the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, which also involved small objects taken by visitors while the museum was open to the public, objects whose return he had secured. He said the museum was preparing photos for dissemination worldwide. \"[N]o matter where in the world these pieces go, no one can sell them\", he told \"The Globe and Mail\". He advised anyone in possession of the missing art to return it immediately.\n\nUnbeknownst to Dalrymple or any of the other investigators, by the time he made that statement at least one of the missing pieces had already been sold. In November 2011 Simon Metke, a yoga teacher from Edmonton, travelled to Montreal for a visit. A friend of his there had told him that someone he knew was selling what he described as a stone sculpture of a soldier, claiming it was a genuine antiquity. As a result of his own recent spiritual explorations, Metke had developed an interest in ancient cultures, and the friend thought he might be interested in buying the sculpture.\n\nWhen Metke finally saw the sculpture, actually the Achaemenid relief that had been stolen from the museum a few months earlier, he was at first skeptical. He believed it might actually be a replica, something that he might otherwise find at modern stores that sell home decor. But he appreciated the workmanship that had gone into it.\n\nThe seller's asking price was CDN$1,400. According to Metke's friend, the seller was motivated. \"This other guy had to pay his child support you know and pay his rent,\" Metke recalled later. \"He edged me on that it was worth a bunch more.\"\n\nStill, Metke had some lingering doubts about the item. So he did a Google search on \"Are there any Mesopotamian artifacts missing?\" After he had satisfied himself from the results that he was not buying something looted or stolen, he bought the item, believing that, with 2012, the last year in the Mayan Calendar, a month away, it was his destiny to acquire the artwork. \"It symbolized part of my spiritual journey to me.\"\n\nHe thought \"it would have been kind of fun\" to take it to an \"Antiques Roadshow\" production, or go to the Middle East himself and have it authenticated. For the time being, he packed the piece in his luggage and flew with it back to Edmonton, where the airline briefly lost the suitcase containing the relief upon his arrival. Once it was located, he took it home and put it in a meditation area he had set up in his living room.\n\nLater he moved it to a shelf in his bedroom, where he put it amid a collection of \"Star Wars\" action figures, crystals and stuffed animals. A month after returning to Edmonton, he gave an interview to a CBC News crew for a story unrelated to the artwork he had just purchased. It was, however, visible on the shelf behind him in some shots.\n\nThe interview eventually led to a tip to police. In late 2013 they obtained a warrant to search Metke's Edmonton condominium, and in January 2014 executed it. \"The sun's coming in through the window, the bougainvillea flowers are glowing, the crystals are making rainbows,\" recalled Metke.\n\nA team of Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) from both Alberta and Quebec, along with the SQ/AXA investigators, quickly located the relief. It was only then that Metke learned it had been stolen, and was indeed an authentic antique artifact 2,500 years old, not a replica. \"I don't think he knew it was worth $1.2 million dollars either,\" he said of the seller. He felt, again, that it was destiny that had brought the relief to him. \"[I]t sort of feels like it may have come to me to be protected so that it didn't get destroyed or lost.\"\n\nAt the time of the arrest, police suggested they had some leads on the identity of the thief. However, as of 2017 no arrests have been made. The whereabouts of the Roman head are also unknown.\n\nPolice charged Metke with possession of stolen property over $5,000 in value, possession of the proceeds of a crime, and possessing a controlled substance for the purpose of trafficking, after they also found drugs in the residence. Metke's girlfriend faced the former two charges related to the relief as well. Fossey, who was in Edmonton that day as well, flew home to Montreal with the relief that night. \"It's a day I'll never forget, flying back with it in a box at my feet,\" he said later. \n\nThe museum, however, would have to consider whether to buy it back from AXA, since once it was recovered it became the insurer's legal property; commonly a buyback clause in the policy allows a museum to do this by returning the money paid. The board said it would meet to consider the possibility. It decided not to, and in 2016 it was offered for sale at the Frieze Art Fair for £2.2 million.\n\nThe Crown later stayed two of the three charges against Metke, and all that it had laid against his girlfriend. In April 2017, he pled guilty to the possession of stolen goods charge. A statement of facts his lawyers agreed on with prosecutors said that while he clearly was unaware the relief had been stolen, he could have done more to assure himself of its provenance. In return the judge gave him a conditional discharge with probation and community service. Both sides described the case as \"unique\" and \"extraordinary\".\n\nAt the time of Metke's arrest, American filmmaker Kevin Smith discussed the story on his podcast, \"SModcast\", amused by Metke's description of the bougainvillea and crystals that morning. His co-host, Scott Mosier, imagined how the RCMP might have spoken to Metke, saying \"Open up, yoga hoser!\" The last two words became a minor catchphrase among their fans.\n\nIn April, Smith announced he was working on a screenplay called \"Yoga Hosers\". He completed the film in time for the January 2016 Sundance Film Festival. It was not based on Metke's story, but one character in the film, a yoga instructor named Yogi Bayer, was inspired by Metke. Justin Long, who played Bayer, attempted to contact Metke while preparing for the role; Metke did not respond until after Long had shot his scenes.\n\n"}
{"id": "453503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453503", "title": "Affirmative action bake sale", "text": "Affirmative action bake sale\n\nAn affirmative action bake sale is a type of campus protest event used by student groups to performatively criticize affirmative action policies by charging students different prices depending on which social or racial group they belong to. It has also been used to raise awareness of racial or sexual wage gaps.\n\nThe bake sales offer to sell cookies at different prices depending on the customer's race and sex, imitating racial and sexual orientation practices of affirmative action. For example, one such bake sale at the University of New Mexico charged $1.50 for Asian customers, $1 for whites, and 50 cents for African-Americans and Hispanics. \n\nAccording to one bake sale student leader, the goal of the technique is to \"bring the issue of affirmative action down to everyday terms.\"\n\nThese bake sales have been organized at many schools across the U.S., sometimes annually. Affirmative action bake sales have also taken place at the University of Pretoria in South Africa, the latest (in 2008) having been forcibly broken up by campus security.\n\nThe American Association of University Women recommends that Equal Pay Day be celebrated by hosting an event where women receive a 20% discount in order \"to raise awareness and provoke conversation about fair pay\".\n\nThe bake sales have met opposition, drawing crowds of students, sometimes facing opposition or restriction from campus administrations, often being accused of racism, and sometimes even being attacked. Additionally, some administrators have been accused of censorship and inappropriately advocating a political position.\n\nResponding to an affirmative action bake sale being attacked at the University of Washington, the school's Board of Regents President Jerry Grinstein presented the opinion of many opponents of these events when he described \"the statements [...] in putting on a bake sale about affirmative action were tasteless, divisive and hurtful to many members of the university community.\" The student leader of a bake sale at UCLA addressed this issue of divisiveness, saying \"we wanted to show how affirmative action is racial division, not racial reconciliation.\" Similarly, administrators at Bucknell University claimed that the bake sales violated the private university's discrimination policy.\n\nOther criticisms of the concept claim that these bake sales do not take into account ingrained social factors that favor white people. An opinion column in the \"Houston Chronicle\" after a similar sale took place at Texas A&M University held that \"Actions like these reinforce the common misconception that affirmative action policies give academically unqualified minority students a get-into-college-free card, and they ignore historical discrimination that denied nonwhites opportunities to be successful at any price, no matter their talents or intelligence.\" The editorial also praised school officials for not shutting down the sale.\n\nAt the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, the Graduate and Professional Students of Color student organization responded to a bake sale held by the Students for Individual Liberty by holding a White Privilege popcorn giveaway where white males received a full bag of popcorn, while women and non-whites received 1/3 of a bag.\n"}
{"id": "23043502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23043502", "title": "Amelia Andersdotter", "text": "Amelia Andersdotter\n\nAmelia Andersdotter (born 30 August 1987, Uppsala) is a Swedish politician and former Member of the European Parliament (2011–2014), elected on the Piratpartiet list in the 2009 election.\n\nAmelia Andersdotter was born on 30 August 1987 at Akademiska sjukhuset in Uppsala, Sweden, the first of three children. Her mother, Lotta Lille, is a journalist, and her father, Anders Lundquist, is a teacher and chess tutor. Her sisters are Ulrika and Karolina. She also has a half-brother on her father's side, Eirik Lundquist. After graduating at Rosendalsgymnasiet in Uppsala, she attended university in Lund, where she studied mathematics, physics, Spanish and business law. However, Andersdotter was elected before completing her studies.\n\nShe has lived in many parts of Europe, including Lund, Uppsala, Bucharest, Ghent and Brussels.\n\nAndersdotter joined the Piratpartiet shortly after its formation in 2006. From June 2007 to March 2010 she was the international coordinator of Ung Pirat, the party's youth wing. In this capacity she coordinated contacts with other groups in Sweden, other pirate political movements around the world, and the organization's international policy viewpoints.\n\nIn 2009, she was named the second candidate on Piratpartiet's list for the European Parliament elections in June of that year. While Piratpartiet did not gain enough votes for a second MEP under the treaty of Nice, they did get enough votes to award her a seat under the terms of the new treaty of Lisbon that was to come into effect December that year. Difficulties with the ratification process of the treaty of Lisbon meant that the seat would not be granted until December 2011. From 2011 to 2014, she was the youngest member of the European Parliament.\n\nIn the interim period between her election and her inauguration, she spent much time travelling to different parts of the world talking about her experiences as a young politician and as an advocate of new ideas in information policy. Amongst others the Ars Electronica festival in Linz, Austria and a visit to South Korea in 2010, which later inspired her political involvement on the Korean peninsula delegation in the European Parliament. She also travelled extensively inside Europe during this time, involving herself in the work of Pirate Parties around Europe.\n\nSince her inauguration, she has focused her efforts around information policy. She is a part of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. She is also a substitute member of the Committee on International Trade and the Committee on Budgetary Control. She also serves as a full member of the parliamentary delegation to the Korean peninsula, and a substitute member of the delegation for the Andean community.\n\nA longtime critic of the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, her advice to reject it was carried by the ITRE committee, the first of parliamentary committees to propose a rejection of the agreement. Other committees soon followed in the rejection. The agreement was soundly rejected by the European Parliament.\n\nOther areas she is working on include a proposal for a recast of the Union's Re-use of Public Sector Information Directive where she has publicly criticized the Swedish government for resisting the proposed changes in access and cost regimes. She is also a supporter of public investments in fibre-to-the-home infrastructures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51120913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51120913", "title": "Anne Henderson (Northern Ireland)", "text": "Anne Henderson (Northern Ireland)\n\nAnne Henderson is chair of the Parades Commission of Northern Ireland. She was born in Ballymena, but has lived most of her life in Belfast. She is married to Charles Henderson, and they have three children. She was trained as an accountant, and served previously as Vice Chair of the Northern Ireland Housing Executive from 2004-2012. She is a member of the audit committee of Queen's University Belfast.\n"}
{"id": "349889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349889", "title": "Anti-Federalism", "text": "Anti-Federalism\n\nAnti-Federalism was a late-18th century movement that opposed the creation of a stronger U.S. federal government and which later opposed the ratification of the 1787 Constitution. The previous constitution, called the Articles of Confederation, gave state governments more authority. Led by Patrick Henry of Virginia, Anti-Federalists worried, among other things, that the position of president, then a novelty, might evolve into a monarchy. Though the Constitution was ratified and supplanted the Articles of Confederation, Anti-Federalist influence helped lead to the passage of the United States Bill of Rights.\n\n\nDuring the American Revolution and its immediate aftermath, the term \"federal\" was applied to any person who supported the colonial union and the government formed under the Articles of Confederation. After the war, the group that felt the national government under the Articles was too weak appropriated the name Federalist for themselves. Historian Jackson Turner Main wrote, \"to them, the man of 'federal principles' approved of 'federal measures,' which meant those that increased the weight and authority or extended the influence of the Confederation Congress.\"\n\nAs the Federalists moved to amend the Articles, eventually leading to the Constitutional Convention, they applied the term anti-federalist to their opposition. The term implied, correctly or not, both opposition to Congress and unpatriotic motives. The Anti-Federalists rejected the term, arguing that they were the true Federalists. In both their correspondence and their local groups, they tried to capture the term. For example, an unknown anti-federalist signed his public correspondence as \"A Federal Farmer\" and the New York committee opposing the Constitution was called the \"Federal Republican Committee.\" However the Federalists carried the day and the name Anti-Federalist forever stuck. \nThe Anti-Federalists were composed of diverse elements, including those opposed to the Constitution because they thought that a stronger government threatened the sovereignty and prestige of the states, localities, or individuals; those that saw in the proposed government a new centralized, disguised \"monarchic\" power that would only replace the cast-off despotism of Great Britain; and those who simply feared that the new government threatened their personal liberties. Some of the opposition believed that the central government under the Articles of Confederation was sufficient. Still others believed that while the national government under the Articles was too weak, the national government under the Constitution would be too strong. Another complaint of the Anti-Federalists was that the Constitution provided for a centralized rather than federal government (and in \"The Federalist Papers\", James Madison admits that the new Constitution has the characteristics of both a centralized and federal form of the government) and that a truly federal form of government was a leaguing of states as under the Articles of Confederation.\n\nDuring the period of debate over the ratification of the Constitution, numerous independent local speeches and articles were published all across the country. Initially, many of the articles in opposition were written under pseudonyms, such as \"Brutus\" (likely Melancton Smith), \"Centinel\" (likely Samuel Bryan), and \"Federal Farmer.\" Eventually, famous revolutionary figures such as Patrick Henry came out publicly against the Constitution. They argued that the strong national government proposed by the Federalists was a threat to the rights of individuals and that the president would become a king. They objected to the federal court system created by the proposed constitution. This produced a phenomenal body of political writing; the best and most influential of these articles and speeches were gathered by historians into a collection known as the \"Anti-Federalist Papers\" in allusion to the \"Federalist Papers\".\n\nIn many states the opposition to the Constitution was strong (although Delaware, Georgia, and New Jersey ratified quickly with little controversy), and in two states—North Carolina and Rhode Island—it prevented ratification until the definite establishment of the new government practically forced their adherence. Individualism was the strongest element of opposition; the necessity, or at least the desirability, of a bill of rights was almost universally felt. In Rhode Island, resistance against the Constitution was so strong that civil war almost broke out on July 4, 1788, when anti-federalist members of the Country Party led by Judge William West marched into Providence with over 1,000 armed protesters.\n\nThe Anti-Federalists played upon these feelings in the ratification convention in Massachusetts. By this point, five of the states had ratified the Constitution with relative ease, but the Massachusetts convention was far more disputed and contentious. After a long debate, a compromise (known as the \"Massachusetts compromise\") was reached. Massachusetts would ratify the Constitution with recommended provisions in the ratifying instrument that the Constitution be amended with a bill of rights. (The Federalists contended that a conditional ratification would be void, so the recommendation was the strongest support that the ratifying convention could give to a bill of rights short of rejecting the Constitution.)\n\nFour of the next five states to ratify, including New Hampshire, Virginia, and New York, included similar language in their ratification instruments. As a result, once the Constitution became operative in 1789, Congress sent a set of twelve amendments to the states. Ten of these amendments were immediately ratified and became known as the Bill of Rights, with one of the other two becoming the 27th Amendment—almost 200 years later. Thus, while the Anti-Federalists were unsuccessful in their quest to prevent the adoption of the Constitution, their efforts were not totally in vain. The Anti-Federalists thus became recognized as an influential group among the founding fathers of the United States.\n\nWith the passage of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, the Anti-Federalist movement was exhausted. Some activists joined the Anti-Administration Party that James Madison and Thomas Jefferson were forming about 1790–91 to oppose the policies of Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton; this group soon became the Democratic-Republican Party.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56508341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56508341", "title": "Arthur J. Jones", "text": "Arthur J. Jones\n\nArthur Joseph Jones (born January 1, 1948) is an American neo-Nazi. He was the Republican candidate for Illinois's 3rd congressional district in the November 2018 midterm elections, losing to Democrat Dan Lipinski.\n\nJones was born in Beloit, Wisconsin. He served in the United States Army in the Vietnam War. He studied at University of Wisconsin–Whitewater from 1974 and majored in political science and journalism.\n\nJones is an independent insurance broker who worked in commission sales for large insurance companies for 25 years.\n\nJones was a member of the National Socialist White People's Party for eight years and describes himself as a former leader of the American Nazi Party, the NSWPP's former name. He has also been a member of the Populist Party, a far-right political party active in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nA perennial candidate, Jones has run for various elected offices since 1976, but has never won an office. In that year, Jones unsuccessfully ran for mayor of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In 1987, he unsuccessfully ran for alderman of the 13th Ward of Chicago. Jones has run for the U.S. House of Representatives as a Republican eight times; in 1984, 1992, 1996, 1998, 2006, 2008, 2012, and 2018.\n\nIn 2017, Jones declared his intent to run for the Republican nomination for Congress from Illinois's 3rd congressional district in 2018; he was the only declared candidate of that party. His candidacy was repudiated by the Illinois Republican Party and the Republican National Committee. RNC spokesperson Michael Ahrens stated, \"We condemn this candidate and his hateful rhetoric in the strongest possible terms\". Jones won the primary unopposed on March 20, 2018 and moved on to face Democratic incumbent Dan Lipinski in the general election. Following his primary victory, Republican party officials encouraged members not to vote for Jones.\n\nIn January 2018, he became the only Republican candidate for Illinois's 3rd congressional district, despite that party's repeated disapproval of him gaining this position, as well as the controversy around him being a candidate.. Despite the GOP disavowing, 26.5 percent of voters still voted for him in the general election on November 6, 2018, as he lost by 47 points.\n\nJones is a white nationalist and Holocaust denier. His 2018 candidate website calls the Holocaust a \"racket.\" He has claimed that the Holocaust was \"the biggest, blackest lie in history\" and \"nothing more than an international extortion racket by the Jews.\" Jones does not support interracial marriage or integration in public schools. In 1993, Jones was filmed in a fight with Milwaukee Alderman Michael McGee Jr. on \"The Jerry Springer Show\".\n\nA neo-Nazi, Jones appears in a photo captioned: \"Jones was a guest speaker at the event organized by the Loyal White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, based in North Carolina\"; the image is in a slideshow on his own official candidate website. The same slideshow has another image (captioned \"Arthur Jones speaking in Harrisburg Penn., on November 5, 2016\") showing him among black-clothed men who hold a National Socialist Movement banner and carry shields marked with the neo-Nazi circle-cross emblem. The same slideshow has an image showing Jones speaking amid Aryan Nations emblems (caption: \"Art Jones speaking at the Aryan Nations 2014 World Congress in Converse, La.\")\n\nJones has attended many rallies commemorating Adolf Hitler or supporting white supremacy. Jones considers himself a \"white racialist\" and has stated \"I will work with the [Ku Klux] Klan, with socialists—I exclude communists of course—any patriotic organization that is in general agreement with my beliefs and principles\".\n\nIn 2016 he was a supporter of Donald Trump for president. Jones said in an interview then, \"I agree with a lot of what Mr. Trump has to say [...] He's his own man. I like the fact that doesn't have to go hat in hand to Jewish billionaires to get money\". In February 2018, Jones nonetheless said President Trump \"surrounded himself with hordes of Jews\", and regrets his 2016 vote. At a neo-Nazi meeting in Kentucky, Jones said that Trump \"surrounded himself with hordes of Jews including a Jew in his own family, that punk named Jared Kushner\", and moved on to say \"I'm sorry I voted for the son of a bitch, pardon my English\" and that Trump was \"nothing but a puppet … this Jew-loving fool\", all of which was also captured on video.\n\nAccording to the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", it takes thousands more signatures to get ballot-approved as an independent candidate than as a Republican; Jones therefore ran in 2016 as a Republican, but the party disavowed him and found technical reasons for removing him from past ballots. Again according to the \"Sun-Times\", Jones took countermeasures in 2017 and 2018 for which the party was unprepared, and so his appear on their ballot despite official Republican disapproval.\n\n"}
{"id": "57820703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57820703", "title": "Attorney General of Bermuda", "text": "Attorney General of Bermuda\n\nEstablished in 1698, the Attorney-General's Chambers of Bermuda is the main legal advisor to the federal government and makes laws accessible to the public. From 1698-1999, the Attorney-General was also the main prosecutor in all criminal matters that pertained to the Bermuda courts. Attorneys-General are appointed by the Governor per the Constitution. All were public officers until 1999 when Lois Browne-Evans was appointed as the island's first political Attorney-General through election. Due to Bermuda's decision to have a political Attorney-General, the Director of Public Prosecutions now handles all criminal matters. Even though there are now two distinct offices, the Attorney-General is also considered Bermuda's Minister of Legal Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47346789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47346789", "title": "Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Attorney General of Trinidad and Tobago\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago, the supreme law of the nation, the Attorney General and Minister of Legal Affairs of Trinidad and Tobago is the primary legal advisor to the Government of Trinidad and Tobago. \n\nThe Attorney General is a member of the Government and has two separate constitutional roles, a governmental role, in which he acts as a Member of Government in the performance of his duties, and a role as the guardian of the public interest, when he acts independently in a quasi-judicial capacity.\n\nThe provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago require the Attorney General to be responsible for the administration of legal affairs within the country. Legal proceedings for and against the State must be taken in the name of the Attorney General (in the case of civil proceedings) and in the name of the State (in the case of criminal proceedings).\n\nThe Attorney General has responsibility for the following departments:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40343976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40343976", "title": "Banishment room", "text": "Banishment room\n\nA banishment room (also known as a chasing-out-room and a boredom room) is a modern employee exit management strategy whereby employees are transferred to another department where they are assigned meaningless work until they become disheartened enough to quit. Since the resignation is voluntary, the employee would not be eligible for certain benefits. The legality and ethicality of the practice is questionable and may be construed as constructive dismissal in some regions.\n\nThe practice, which is not officially acknowledged, is common in Japan which has strong labor laws and a tradition of permanent employment.\n\n"}
{"id": "35671159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35671159", "title": "Barefoot lawyer", "text": "Barefoot lawyer\n\nA barefoot lawyer (Chinese: 赤脚律师 pinyin: chìjiǎo lǜshī) is a self-taught legal activist in China. Many barefoot lawyers are peasants who teach themselves enough law to file civil complaints, engage in litigation, and educate fellow citizens about their rights. The term is a variation of the \"barefoot doctor\"—farmers with minimal formal training who nonetheless provided essential medical services in rural China during the Mao era. Barefoot lawyers provide free legal services, and in many instances take on controversial or politically sensitive cases—such as tackling corruption by local authorities—that more established legal professionals may be reluctant to pursue. Notable examples of barefoot lawyers include the blind self-taught activist Chen Guangcheng, and Guo Feixiong.\n\nSince the legal reforms of the late 1970s and 1980s, the Communist Party of China has moved to embrace the language of the rule of law and establish a modern court system. In the process, it has enacted thousands of new laws and regulations, and embarked on campaigns to publicize the idea that citizens have protection under the law. As China’s leadership became cognizant of the importance of the legal system and legal profession to advance economic development, training for lawyers dramatically increased. From 1986 to 1992, the number of lawyers in the country more than doubled from 21,500 to 45,000, and by 2008 had reached 143,000.\n\nDespite the meteoric growth in the legal profession in China since the 1980s, many rural counties in China have a severe shortage of legal professionals; a 2004 report by China's Ministry of Justice noted that 200 counties did not have a single lawyer. This has given rise to several distinct classes of legal workers and activists with varying qualifications who step in to meet the demand for legal professionals and advisors. While licensed lawyers and the less qualified \"legal workers\" tend to have established ties to authorities and local courts, barefoot lawyers are independent actors. Moreover, unlike most lawyers who gravitate to urban centers, barefoot lawyers tend to be based in rural areas where citizens have limited access to justice. Although they lack the training and professionalism of lawyers, they serve an irreplaceable function of providing \"convenient, approachable, and free services\" without political constraints, according to You-Tien Hsing and Ching Kwan Lee.\n\nBarefoot lawyers are distinguished from qualified lawyers in that they are often completely self-taught, lack formal training in the legal profession, and are not accredited to practice law. They are also distinct from \"legal workers,\" who are required only to possess high school education plus a six-month legal training program. Although they lack legal credentials and formal legal training, barefoot lawyers tend to have a higher level of education and experience than most rural citizens.\n\nThe proliferation of barefoot lawyers in China is due, in part, to a provision in Chinese law which allows parties to represent themselves or select their own, unpaid representatives to appear in court on their behalf; the chosen representatives do not need to be licensed lawyers.\n\nBarefoot lawyers are known for taking on controversial or politically sensitive cases, such as tackling illegal land grabs, corruption and abuse of power, or environmental disputes. In many instances, more legitimate legal workers and lawyers are unwilling to accept these cases, as doing so can result in reprisals. Several barefoot lawyers identify closely with the Weiquan (rights defending) movement.\n\nAmong the notable cases taken on by Weiquan lawyers include Chen Guangcheng's effort in 2000 to mobilize 79 villages in his native Shandong Province to petition against a paper mill that had been polluting a river, killing wildlife and ruining crops. The effort was successful, and resulted in the suspension of the paper mill. Chen later earned international recognition for initiating a class-action lawsuit against the staff of a family planning clinic in Shandong province that allegedly forced thousands of people to undergo sterilization or to abort pregnancies. Another case, publicized in \"Newsweek\", involved barefoot lawyers petitioning authorities to provide compensation to villagers who had been beaten by authorities over a tax dispute.\n\nIn addition to litigating cases in court, barefoot lawyers perform a number of other services, such as organizing citizens to petition authorities. A survey in rural Henan province found that, between 2001 and 2004, more cases were handled by barefoot lawyers than by licensed lawyers. Across China, barefoot lawyers and \"legal workers\" provide more legal services and draft more legal documents than licensed lawyers, and in some areas litigate more civil cases than lawyers.\n\nScholars of Chinese law and society have described barefoot lawyers as providing legal services and advice that are largely irreplaceable by lawyers and legal workers; in particular, they provide free access to justice in rural areas, and take on administrative cases and politically sensitive cases that many other legal professionals are unwilling to pursue. However, barefoot lawyers have attracted some scorn from licensed lawyers. Urban areas often experience a surplus of licensed lawyers, and many have lobbied to impose more restrictions on the activities of legal workers and barefoot lawyers to reduce market competition. Although alternative legal service providers such as legal workers and barefoot lawyers were at one time encouraged in rural areas to satisfy unmet demand, in recent years they have come under increased control and scrutiny by authorities.\n\nDue to the nature of cases barefoot lawyers sometimes take on—which include challenging official corruption, organizing against abuses of power, or defending victims of forced eviction—they are sometimes met with punitive reprisals by authorities. The barefoot lawyer Guo Feixiong was sentenced to five years in prison in 2007 in what was characterized as a \"trial marked with serious procedural irregularities.\" Family members reported that Guo was tortured in custody, deprived of sleep, and shocked with electric batons. Chen Guangcheng was sentenced to over four years in prison after he sought to defend victims of forced sterilization and abortion; following his release, he remained under house arrest.\n\nThe Barefoot Lawyers of Uganda\n\n"}
{"id": "608100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608100", "title": "Blasphemy law in the United Kingdom", "text": "Blasphemy law in the United Kingdom\n\nThis article describes the blasphemy law in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel were abolished by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008. See also Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006.\n\nThe offence of blasphemy was originally part of canon law. In 1378, at the command of Pope Gregory XI, persecution of John Wycliffe and the Lollards was undertaken. However, the only punishment available to the bishops at the time was excommunication. The clergy, dissatisfied with this, forged an Act of parliament, without the assent of the Lords or Commons, enabling the arrest and imprisonment of heretics. In the following year an attempt was made by Parliament to repeal the Act, which prompted a series of prosecutions, and the repeal failed. Not satisfied with their new powers, further were sought and granted under King Henry IV in 1400. These new powers allowed the bishops to arrest and imprison all preachers of heresy, all schoolmasters infected with heresy, and all owners and writers of heretical books. On refusal to abjure (solemnly renounce) or relapse after abjuration, the heretic could be handed over to civil officers, to be taken to a high place before the people and there be burnt, so that their punishment might strike fear in the hearts and minds of others. In April, 1399, William Sawyer was convicted of heresy and put to penance by his bishop. He was again arrested on 12 February 1400, as a relapsed heretic and was convicted by the Archbishop of Canterbury. Sawyer was burnt on 2 March, eight days before the power to inflict such punishment was granted. There is a long list of those burnt, or hanged and burnt, between 1414 and 1506. In the 17th century, blasphemy was declared a common law offence by the Court of King's Bench, punishable by the common law courts.\n\nIn 1656, the Quaker James Naylor was sentenced by the Second Protectorate Parliament to flogging, to be pilloried, branded on the forehead and the piercing of his tongue by a red-hot poker, and thereafter kept in prison on hard labour indefinitely. In sentencing Naylor, the judge, Lord Commissioner Whitelock, makes the distinction between heresy and blasphemy.\n\nFrom the 16th century to the mid-19th century, blasphemy against Christianity was held as an offence against common law. When formulating his new Church of England's doctrines in the 1530s, Henry VIII made it an offence to say or print any opinion that contradicted the Six Articles (1539). Blasphemy was also used as a legal instrument to persecute atheists, Unitarians, and others. Ever since 1838, blasphemy was considered to be only a crime against beliefs of the Church of England.\n\nAll blasphemies against God, including denying his being or providence, all contumelious reproaches of Jesus Christ, all profane scoffing at the Holy Scriptures, and exposing any part thereof to contempt or ridicule, were punishable by the temporal courts with death, imprisonment, corporal punishment and fine. In 1656, two weavers, William Bond and Thomas Hibbord were indicted in Wiltshire for atheistic statements. In May of the same year, Alexander Agnew, known as \"Jock of Broad Scotland\", was convicted and hanged for blasphemy in Dumfries.\n\n\"Taylor's Case\" in 1676 was the first reported case of the common law offence of blasphemy. It is unclear whether or not there were any unreported earlier cases. Lord Sumner said \"Taylor's case is the foundation stone of this part of the law\".\n\nThe report by Ventris contains the following passage:\n\nIn \"Rex v Woolston\", \"the Court declared they would not suffer it to be debated, whether to write against Christianity in general was not an offence punishable in the Temporal Courts at common law: it having been settled so to be in \"Taylor's Case\" in 1 Vent. 293. 3 Keb 607, 621 and in the case of \"The King v Hall\", ante, 416. They desired it might be taken notice of, that they laid their stress upon the word general, and did not intend to include disputes between learned men on particular controverted points.\"\n\nIn 1841 Edward Moxon was found guilty of the publication of a blasphemous libel (Percy Bysshe Shelley's \"Queen Mab\"), the prosecution having been instituted by Henry Hetherington, who had previously been condemned to four months imprisonment for a similar offence, and wished to test the law under which he was punished. In the case of \"Cowan v Milbourn\" (1867) the defendant had broken his contract to let a lecture-room to the plaintiff, on discovering that the intended lectures were to maintain that the character of Christ is defective, and his teaching misleading, and that the Bible is no more inspired than any other book, and the court of exchequer held that the publication of such doctrine was blasphemy, and the contract therefore illegal. On that occasion the court reaffirmed the dictum of Lord Chief Justice Hale, that Christianity is part of the laws of England.\nThe commissioners on criminal law (sixth report) remarked that although the law forbade all denial of the being and providence of God or the Christian religion, it is only when irreligion assumes the form of an insult to God and man that the interference of the criminal law took place.\n\nThe dictum \"if the decencies of controversy are observed, even the fundamentals of religion may be attacked without the writer being guilty of blasphemy\" was followed in R v Boulter (1908) 72 JP 188.\n\nIn the case of \"Bowman v Secular Society\" [1917] AC 406, Lord Sumner, echoing Hale's remarks in \"Taylor\", summarized the position using the Latin phrase, \"deorum injuriae diis curae\", \"offences to the gods are dealt with by the gods\": blasphemy is an offence against the (Christian) state, and is prohibited because it tends to subvert (Christian) society; offence to God as such is outside the reach of the law.\n\nThe last person in Britain to be sent to prison for blasphemy was John William Gott on 9 December 1921. He had three previous convictions for blasphemy when he was prosecuted for publishing two pamphlets entitled \"Rib Ticklers, or Questions for Parsons\" and \"God and Gott\". In these pamphlets Gott satirised the biblical story of Jesus entering Jerusalem () comparing Jesus to a circus clown. He was sentenced to nine months' hard labour despite suffering from an incurable illness, and died shortly after he was released. The case became the subject of public outrage.\n\nIn a 1949 speech Lord Denning placed the blasphemy laws in the past, saying that \"it was thought that a denial of Christianity was liable to shake the fabric of society, which was itself founded upon Christian religion. There is no such danger to society now and the offence of blasphemy is a dead letter\".\n\nIn 1977, however, the case \"Whitehouse v Lemon\" (involving the periodical \"Gay News\" publishing James Kirkup's poem \"The Love that Dares to Speak its Name\") demonstrated that the offence of blasphemous libel, long thought to be dormant, was still in force. During the House of Lords appeal Lord Scarman said that \"I do not subscribe to the view that the common-law offence of blasphemous libel serves no useful purpose in modern law. ... The offence belongs to a group of criminal offences designed to safeguard the internal tranquillity of the kingdom.\"\n\nThe following cases, in particular, were approved by the House of Lords in \"Whitehouse v Gay News Ltd\":\n\n\nLord Scarman said that in his judgement the modern law of blasphemy was correctly formulated in article 214 of Stephen's Digest of the Criminal Law, Ninth Edition, 1950, which reads:\n\nThe Human Rights Act 1998 requires the courts to interpret the law in a way that is compatible with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The offence of blasphemous libel is believed by some to be contrary to the freedom of speech provisions in the Convention. However, just before the introduction of the Human Rights Act 1998, a claim that the blasphemy law is inconsistent with article 10 of the Convention (providing for freedom of expression) was rejected in the case of \"Wingrove v UK\" (1997); a case brought by solicitor Mark Stephens. The Court decided that it was within the state's margin of appreciation for a restriction on free speech.\n\nWhen the BBC decided to broadcast \"\" in January 2005, they received over 63,000 complaints by offended Christian viewers who objected to the show's portrayal of Christian icons (including one scene depicting Jesus professing to be \"a bit gay\"). The fundamentalist group Christian Voice sought a private blasphemy prosecution against the BBC, but the charges were rejected by City of Westminster magistrates' court. Christian Voice applied to have this ruling overturned by the High Court, but the application was rejected, the court finding that the common law blasphemy offences specifically did not apply to stage productions (section 2(4) of the Theatres Act 1968) and broadcasts (section 6 of the Broadcasting Act 1990).\n\nIn \"R v Gathercole\" (1838), the defendant was convicted of criminal libel for publishing an attack on a Roman Catholic nunnery. Alderson B., in his direction to the jury, said that \"a person may, without being liable to prosecution for it, attack Judaism, or Mahomedanism, or even any sect of the Christian religion (save the established religion of the country); and the only reason why the latter is in a different situation from the others is, because it is the form established by law, and is therefore a part of the constitution of the country. In the like manner, and for the same reason, any general attack on Christianity is the subject of a criminal prosecution, because Christianity is the established religion of the country.\"\n\nIn \"Bowman v Secular Society Ltd\" (1917), Lord Sumner said that this was a \"strange dictum\" because insulting a Jew's religion was no less likely to provoke a fight than insulting an episcopalian's religion.\n\nThe Church in Wales was disestablished in 1920. In 1985, the Law Commission said that the effect of this was that that Church was no longer \"the form established by law\" nor \"part of the constitution\" of the Principality of Wales, within the meaning of those expressions in the dictum from \"R v Gathercole\" set out above. They said that, at that date, there was no authority as to the effect of this, if any, on the law of blasphemy in Wales.\n\nIn \"Whitehouse v Lemon\" (as \"Whitehouse v Gay News Ltd\" [1979] when it reached the Law Lords), Lord Scarman said that the offence did not protect the religious beliefs and feelings of non-Christians. He said it was \"shackled by the chains of history\" in this respect.\n\nIn \"R v Chief Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Choudhury\" (1991), the Divisional Court held that the offences prohibited attacks only on the Christian religion, and did not prohibit attacks on the Islamic religion.\n\nIt was also held that the failure of these offences to prohibit attacks on non-Christian religions did not violate article 9 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (which relates to freedom of religion).\n\nAt the time of their abolition, blasphemy and blasphemous libel were indictable-only offences.\n\nThe death penalty for blasphemy was abolished in 1676.\n\nIn \"R v Woolston\", the defendant was sentenced to a fine of £25 for each of his four discourses (i.e. £100 altogether) and to imprisonment for the term of one year. He was also required to enter into a recognizance for his good behaviour during his life, himself in the sum of £3000 and by others in the sum of £2000. (As to recognizances, see also binding over).\n\nBefore 1883, prosecutions were \"much more common\". In the years 1883 to 1922 there were five prosecutions. There was an unsuccessful private prosecution in 1971. The next successful prosecution was in 1977.\n\nIn England the last prominent 19th century prosecution for blasphemy was the case of \"R v Ramsey and Foote\", when the editor, publisher and printer of \"The Freethinker\" were sentenced to imprisonment.\n\nPolice court proceedings were taken in 1908 against Harry Boulter, a Hyde Park orator with links to the Rationalist movement. In June 1909 he was jailed for repeating the offence.\n\nIn February 1925, the Glasgow-based radical Guy Aldred was arrested in Hyde Park and charged with blasphemy and sedition.\n\nIn 1988, British author Salman Rushdie's novel \"The Satanic Verses\" was published. Many Muslims considered the book to blaspheme against Islam, and Iranian clerical leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa in 1989 calling for Rushdie's death, \"along with all the editors and publishers aware of its contents\". Consequently, the government was petitioned for Rushdie to be prosecuted for blasphemy. No charges were laid because, as a House of Lords select committee stated, the law only protects the Christian beliefs as held by the Church of England. The Rushdie case stimulated debate on this topic, with some arguing the same protection should be extended to all religions, while others claimed the UK's ancient blasphemy laws were an anachronism and should be abolished. Despite much discussion surrounding the controversy, the law was not amended.\n\nMichael Newman, a secondary school science teacher and an atheist, was arrested under England’s blasphemy law for selling Wingrove's blasphemous video, \"Visions of Ecstasy\" in February 1992 in Birmingham. He was forced to resign from his school position due to protests from Christian parents. As a result, he became a subject of discussion in the media, including an appearance on Channel Four’s \"Comment\" programme in England.\n\nIn 2002, a deliberate and well-publicised public repeat reading of \"The Love that Dares to Speak its Name\" took place on the steps of St Martin-in-the-Fields church in Trafalgar Square, but failed to lead to any prosecution.\n\nThe Law Commission published a report in 1985 on \"Criminal Law: Offences against Religious and Public Worship\". The report noted that \"there is no one agreed definition of blasphemy and blasphemous libel and that it would scarcely be practicable, even if it thought desirable, to amend the common law definition by statute\". The authors added that \"it is now clear that none of the arguments for retaining a law of blasphemy are sufficiently strong to support this view and each of them is outweighed by other considerations which persuade us that a law of blasphemy is not a necessary part of a criminal code. Moreover, we have no doubt that any replacement offence which might be devised would in practice prove to be unacceptably wide in ambit.\" The Commission concluded \"that the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel should be abolished without replacement\". A minority report sought to create a replacement offence such that citizens should not purposely \"insult or outrage the religious feelings of others\".\n\nIn 2002, a deliberate and well-publicised public repeat-reading of the poem \"The Love that Dares to Speak its Name\" by James Kirkup took place on the steps of St Martin-in-the-Fields church in Trafalgar Square and failed to lead to any prosecution by the Director of Public Prosecutions. It suggested Jesus was a homosexual. An earlier reading in 1977 had led to prosecution. Outraged Christians tried to drown out the 2002 reading. \"We have won an important victory for free speech and the right to protest\", declared human rights campaigner Peter Tatchell. \"No one was arrested. The police didn't even take our names and addresses. The blasphemy law is now a dead letter. If the authorities are not prepared to enforce the law, they should abolish it\". A trial would have involved all those who read and published the poem, including several of Britain's leading writers, academics and MPs. After the event, Tatchell said \"The blasphemy law gives the Christian religion privileged protection against criticism and dissent. No other institution enjoys such sweeping powers to suppress the expression of opinions and ideas.\"\n\nOn 15 May 2002 the House of Lords appointed a select committee \"to consider and report on the law relating to religious offences\". The committee's first report was published in April 2003; it summarised the state of the law in this area, and found that the present law on blasphemy was unlikely to result in successful prosecution. The committee found no consensus on whether a new law against blasphemy was required, but concluded that any law should apply to all faiths. Home Secretary David Blunkett responded with plans to criminalise incitement to religious hatred, which became the Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006, and he suggested the blasphemy law might be repealed once the new law was in force.\n\nIn January 2008, a spokesman for prime minister Gordon Brown announced that the government would consider supporting the abolition of the blasphemy laws during the passage of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Bill. The government consulted with the Church of England and other churches before reaching a decision. The move followed a letter written to \"The Daily Telegraph\" at the instigation of MP Evan Harris and the National Secular Society and was signed by leading figures including Lord Carey, former Archbishop of Canterbury, who urged that the laws be abandoned.\n\nOn 5 March 2008, an amendment was passed to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 which abolished the common law offences of blasphemy and blasphemous libel in England and Wales. The peers also voted for the laws to be abandoned during March. The Act received royal assent on 8 May 2008, and the relevant section came into force on 8 July 2008.\n\nAn Act of Edward VI (the Sacrament Act 1547) set a punishment of imprisonment for reviling the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. It was repealed by the First Statute of Repeal in 1553 and revived again in 1558.\n\nThe interregnum Parliament in 1650, \"holding it to be [its] duty, by all good ways and means to propagate the Gospel in this Commonwealth, to advance Religion in all Sincerity, Godliness, and Honesty\" passed \"An Act against several Atheistical, Blasphemous and Execrable Opinions, derogatory to the honor of God, and destructive to humane Society\", known as the Blasphemy Act of 1650 and intended to punish those \"who should abuse and turn into Licentiousness, the liberty given in matters of Conscience\".\n\nProfane cursing and swearing was made punishable by the Profane Oaths Act 1745, which directed that the offender be brought before a justice of the peace, and fined an amount that depended on his social rank. It was repealed by section 13 of the Criminal Law Act 1967.\n\nThose denying the Trinity were deprived of the benefit of the Toleration Act 1688. The Blasphemy Act 1697 enacted that if any person, educated in or having made profession of the Christian religion, should by writing, preaching, teaching or advised speaking, deny that the members of the Holy Trinity were God, or should assert that there is more than one god, or deny the Christian religion to be true, or the Holy Scriptures to be of divine authority, he should, upon the first offence, be rendered incapable of holding any office or place of trust, and for the second incapable of bringing any action, of being guardian or executor, or of taking a legacy or deed of gift, and should suffer three years imprisonment without bail.\n\nAn Act of 1812–1813 excepted from these enactments \"persons denying as therein mentioned respecting the Holy Trinity\".\n\nA person offending under the Blasphemy Act 1697 was also indictable at common law. In \"Rex v Carlile\", Mr Justice Best said:\n\nBy the law of Scotland, as it originally stood, the punishment for blasphemy was death, a penalty last imposed on Thomas Aikenhead in Edinburgh in 1697. By an Act of 1825, amended in 1837, blasphemy was made punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. The last prosecution for blasphemy in Scotland was in 1843 when bookseller Thomas Paterson was sentenced at Edinburgh High Court to fifteen months in prison for selling profane placards,\n\nAccording to the 18th–19th century legal writer David Hume (nephew of the philosopher), Scots law distinguished between blasphemy, which was uttered in passion generally in the heat of the moment, and other offences which involved the propagation of ideas contrary to religion. It is blasphemy, Hume wrote\n\nThe Human Rights Act 1998 applies in Scotland as well as England and Wales, and therefore poses similar challenges to the existing Scottish blasphemy laws as those described above. Additionally, some legal commentators believe that, owing to the long time since successful prosecution, blasphemy in Scotland is no longer a crime, although blasphemous conduct might still be tried as a breach of the peace.\n\nThe Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service considered a complaint under the blasphemy law regarding the BBC transmission of \"\", but did not proceed with charges.\n\nBlasphemy and blasphemous libel continue to be offences under the common law of Northern Ireland. On 5 November 2009 in the House of Lords an amendment to the Coroners and Justice Bill was moved, which would have abolished these offences in Northern Ireland, but following a brief debate the amendment was withdrawn.\n\n\n\n. An account by George William Foote of his experiences in the 1880s.\n"}
{"id": "56704571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56704571", "title": "CLOUD Act", "text": "CLOUD Act\n\nThe Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act or CLOUD Act () is a United States federal law enacted in 2018 by the passing of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, PL 115-141, section 105 executive agreements on access to data by foreign governments. Primarily the CLOUD Act amends the Stored Communications Act (SCA) of 1986 to allow federal law enforcement to compel U.S.-based technology companies via warrant or subpoena to provide requested data stored on servers regardless of whether the data are stored in the U.S. or on foreign soil.\n\nThe CLOUD Act was introduced following difficulties that the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) had with obtaining remote data through service providers through SCA warrants, as the SCA was written before cloud computing was a viable technology. The situation was highlighted from a 2013 drug trafficking investigation, during which the FBI issued an SCA warrant for emails that a U.S. citizen had stored on one of Microsoft's remote servers in Ireland, which Microsoft refused to provide. The legal challenge led to the Supreme Court in \"Microsoft Corp. v. United States\". The FBI contended that Microsoft had full control of the data and should be compelled to turn it over in response to the warrant, but Microsoft argued that the SCA did not cover data stored outside the United States. The challenge identified that while the FBI could request a mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT) to aid in data discovery during cross-border law enforcement, the process to acquire a new MLAT if one is not in place, or to process a request through an existing MLAT, can be slow and impede law enforcement efforts.\n\nCongress, primarily led by Senator Orrin Hatch, had attempted to create legislation prior to the CLOUD Act to amend the SCA with the concerns of Microsoft and other technologies companies with respect to foreign privacy rights. The \"Law Enforcement Access to Data Stored Abroad Act\" (LEADS Act) in 2015 and the International Communications Privacy Act (ICPA) in 2017 were both previous bills intended to amend the SCA but which failed to gain passage. \n\nThe CLOUD Act is a culmination of these prior bills. Principally, it asserts that U.S. data and communication companies must provide stored data for U.S. citizens on any server they own and operate when requested by warrant, but provides mechanisms for the companies or the courts to reject or challenge these if they believe the request violates the privacy rights of the foreign country the data is stored in. It also provides an alternative and expedited route to MLATs through \"executive agreements\"; the executive branch is given the ability to enter into bi-lateral agreements with foreign countries to provide requested data related to its citizens in a streamlined manner, as long as the Attorney General, with concurrence of the Secretary of State, agree that the foreign country has sufficient protections in place to restrict access to data related to United States citizens.\n\nThe CLOUD Act had support of the Department of Justice and of major technology companies like Microsoft, Apple, and Google. The bill was criticized by several civil rights groups, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the American Civil Liberties Union, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch. These groups argued that the bill stripped away Fourth Amendment rights against unreasonable searches and seizures, since the government could enter into data rights sharing agreements with foreign countries and bypass U.S. courts, and affected users would not have to be notified when such warrants were issued. Some of these groups feared the government would not fully review requests from foreign countries for their citizens stored on servers in the U.S., potentially allowing such data to be used in bad faith in those countries.\n\nAfter being introduced in the 115th United States Congress as H.R.4943, the act was included as section 105 of H.R.1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, an omnibus spending bill, which passed both houses of Congress and was signed into law, P.L. 115-141, on March 23, 2018. On April 17 2018, the Supreme Court, based on concurring briefs submitted by the Department of Justice, vacated the \"United States v. Microsoft Corp.\" and remanded it back to lower court to do the same, as the Department of Justice was able to secure a new warrant under the CLOUD Act and was no longer pursuing the initial warrant, rendering the case moot.\n"}
{"id": "50603500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50603500", "title": "Cabinet of the French Consulate", "text": "Cabinet of the French Consulate\n\nThe Cabinet of the French Consulate was formed following the Coup of 18 Brumaire which replaced the Directory with the Consulate. The new regime was ratified by the adoption of the Constitution of the Year VIII on 24 December 1799 and headed by Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul, with Jean Jacques Régis de Cambacérès and Charles-François Lebrun serving as Second and Third Consuls respectively.\n\nThe Ministers under the Consulate were:\n"}
{"id": "31739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31739", "title": "Chief Justice of the United States", "text": "Chief Justice of the United States\n\nThe Chief Justice of the United States is the chief judge of the nine-member Supreme Court of the United States, the highest judicial body in the United States. As such, the chief justice is the highest-ranking judge of the federal judiciary—one of the three branches of the federal government. Article II, Section 2, Clause 2 of the Constitution grants plenary power to the President of the United States to nominate, and with the advice and consent (confirmation) of the United States Senate, appoint a chief justice, who serves until they resign, are impeached and convicted, retire, or die.\n\nThe Chief Justice has significant influence in the selection of cases for review, presides when oral arguments are held, and leads the discussion of cases among the justices. Additionally, when the Court renders an opinion, the chief justice—if in the majority—chooses who writes the Court's opinion. When deciding a case, however, the chief justice's vote counts no more than that of any associate justice. \n\nAdditionally, the Chief Justice serves as a spokesperson for the federal government's judicial branch and acts as a chief administrative officer for the federal courts. The Chief Justice presides over the Judicial Conference and, in that capacity, appoints the director and deputy director of the Administrative Office. The Chief Justice is also an \"ex officio\" member of the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution and, by custom, is elected chancellor of the board.\n\nSince the Supreme Court was established in 1789, 17 people have served as chief justice. The first was John Jay (1789–1795). The current chief justice is John Roberts (since 2005). Four—Edward Douglass White, Charles Evans Hughes, Harlan Fiske Stone, and William Rehnquist—were previously confirmed for associate justice and subsequently confirmed for chief justice separately.\n\nThe United States Constitution does not explicitly establish an office of Chief Justice, but presupposes its existence with a single reference in : \"When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside.\" Nothing more is said in the Constitution regarding the office. Article III, Section 1, which authorizes the establishment of the Supreme Court, refers to all members of the Court simply as \"judges\". The Judiciary Act of 1789 created the distinctive titles of \"Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States\" and \"Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States\".\n\nIn 1866, at the urging of Salmon P. Chase, Congress restyled the chief justice's title to the current \"Chief Justice of the United States\". The first person whose Supreme Court commission contained the modified title was Melville Fuller in 1888. The associate justices' title was not altered in 1866, and remains as originally created.\n\nThe chief justice, like all federal judges, is nominated by the President and confirmed to office by the U.S. Senate. Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution specifies that they \"shall hold their Offices during good Behavior\". This language means that the appointments are effectively for life, and that, once in office, justices' tenure ends only when they die, retire, resign, or are removed from office through the impeachment process. Since 1789, 15 presidents have made a total of 22 official nominations to the position.\n\nThe salary of the chief justice is set by Congress; the current (2018) annual salary is $267,000, which is slightly higher than that of associate justices, which is $255,300.\n\nThe practice of appointing an individual to serve as chief justice is grounded in tradition; while the Constitution mandates that there be a chief justice, it is silent on the subject of how one is chosen and by whom. There is no specific constitutional prohibition against using another method to select the chief justice from among those justices properly appointed and confirmed to the Supreme Court. Constitutional law scholar Todd Pettys has proposed that presidential appointment of chief justices should be done away with, and replaced by a process that permits the Justices to select their own chief justice.\n\nThree incumbent associate justices have been nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate as chief justice: Edward Douglass White in 1910, Harlan Fiske Stone in 1941, and William Rehnquist in 1986. A fourth, Abe Fortas, was nominated to the position in 1968, but was not confirmed. As an associate justice does not have to resign his or her seat on the Court in order to be nominated as chief justice, Fortas remained an associate justice. Similarly, when associate justice William Cushing was nominated and confirmed as chief justice in January 1796, but declined the office, he too remained on the Court. Two former associate justices subsequently returned to service on the Court as chief justice. John Rutledge was the first. President Washington gave him a recess appointment in 1795. However, his subsequent nomination to the office was not confirmed by the Senate, and he left office and the Court. In 1933, former associate justice Charles Evans Hughes was confirmed as chief justice. Additionally, in December 1800, former chief justice John Jay was nominated and confirmed to the position a second time, but ultimately declined it, opening the way for the appointment of John Marshall.\n\nAlong with his general responsibilities as a member of the Supreme Court, the Chief Justice has several unique duties to fulfill.\n\nArticle I, section 3 of the U.S. Constitution stipulates that the Chief Justice shall preside over impeachment trials of the President of the United States in the U.S. Senate. Two Chief Justices, Salmon P. Chase and William Rehnquist, have presided over the trial in the Senate that follows an impeachment of the president – Chase in 1868 over the proceedings against President Andrew Johnson and Rehnquist in 1999 over the proceedings against President Bill Clinton. Both presidents were subsequently acquitted.\n\nMany of the Court's procedures and inner workings are governed by the rules of based on the seniority of the justices. The chief justice always ranks first in the order of precedence—regardless of the length of the officeholder's service (even if shorter than that of one or more associate justices). This elevated status has enabled successive chief justices to define and refine both the Court's culture and its judicial priorities.\n\nThe chief justice sets the agenda for the weekly meetings where the justices review the petitions for certiorari, to decide whether to hear or deny each case. The Supreme Court agrees to hear less than one percent of the cases petitioned to it. While associate justices may append items to the weekly agenda, in practice this initial agenda-setting power of the chief justice has significant influence over the direction of the court. Nonetheless, a chief justice's influence may be limited by circumstances and the associate justices' understanding of legal principles; it is definitely limited by the fact that he has only a single vote of nine on the decision whether to grant or deny certiorari.\n\nDespite the chief justice's elevated stature, his vote carries the same legal weight as the vote of each associate justice. Additionally, he has no legal authority to overrule the verdicts or interpretations of the other eight judges or tamper with them. The task of assigning who shall write the opinion for the majority falls to the most senior justice in the majority. Thus, when the chief justice is in the majority, he always assigns the opinion. Early in his tenure, Chief Justice John Marshall insisted upon holdings which the justices could unanimously back as a means to establish and build the Court's national prestige. In doing so, Marshall would often write the opinions himself, and actively discouraged dissenting opinions. Associate Justice William Johnson eventually persuaded Marshall and the rest of the Court to adopt its present practice: one justice writes an opinion for the majority, and the rest are free to write their own separate opinions or not, whether concurring or dissenting.\n\nThe chief justice's formal prerogative—when in the majority—to assign which justice will write the Court's opinion is perhaps his most influential power, as this enables him to influence the historical record. He \"may assign this task to the individual justice best able to hold together a fragile coalition, to an ideologically amenable colleague, or to himself.\" Opinion authors can have a big influence on the content of an opinion; two justices in the same majority, given the opportunity, might write very different majority opinions. A chief justice who knows well the associate justices can therefore do much—by the simple act of selecting the justice who writes the opinion of the court—to affect the general character or tone of an opinion, which in turn can affect the interpretation of that opinion in cases before lower courts in the years to come.\n\nAdditionally, the chief justice chairs the conferences where cases are discussed and tentatively voted on by the justices. He normally speaks first and so has influence in framing the discussion. Although the chief justice votes first—the Court votes in order of seniority—he may strategically pass in order to ensure membership in the majority if desired. It is reported that:\nThe Chief Justice typically administers the oath of office at the inauguration of the President of the United States. This is a tradition, rather than a constitutional responsibility of the Chief Justice; the Constitution does not require that the oath be administered by anyone in particular, simply that it be taken by the president. Law empowers any federal and state judge, as well as notaries public (such as John Calvin Coolidge, Sr.), to administer oaths and affirmations.\n\nIf the Chief Justice is ill or incapacitated, the oath is usually administered by the next senior member of the Supreme Court. Seven times, someone other than the Chief Justice of the United States administered the oath of office to the President. Robert Livingston, as Chancellor of the State of New York (the state's highest ranking judicial office), administered the oath of office to George Washington at his first inauguration; there was no Chief Justice of the United States, nor any other federal judge prior to their appointments by President Washington in the months following his inauguration. William Cushing, an associate justice of the Supreme Court, administered Washington's second oath of office in 1793. Calvin Coolidge's father, a notary public, administered the oath to his son after the death of Warren Harding. This, however, was contested upon Coolidge's return to Washington and his oath was re-administered by Judge Adolph A. Hoehling, Jr. of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. John Tyler and Millard Fillmore were both sworn in on the death of their predecessors by Chief Justice William Cranch of the Circuit Court of the District of Columbia. Chester A. Arthur and Theodore Roosevelt's initial oaths reflected the unexpected nature of their taking office. On November 22, 1963, after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, Judge Sarah T. Hughes, a federal district court judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, administered the oath of office to then Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson aboard the presidential airplane.\n\nIn addition, the Chief Justice ordinarily administers the oath of office to newly appointed and confirmed associate justices, whereas the senior associate justice will normally swear in a new Chief Justice or vice president.\n\nSince the tenure of William Howard Taft, the office of the Chief Justice has moved beyond just first among equals. The Chief Justice also:\n\nUnlike Senators and Representatives who are constitutionally prohibited from holding any other \"office of trust or profit\" of the United States or of any state while holding their congressional seats, the Chief Justice and the other members of the federal judiciary are not barred from serving in other positions. Chief Justice John Jay served as a diplomat to negotiate the so-called Jay Treaty (also known as the Treaty of London of 1794), Justice Robert H. Jackson was appointed by President Truman to be the U.S. Prosecutor in the Nuremberg trials of leading Nazis, and Chief Justice Earl Warren chaired The President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy. As described above, the Chief Justice holds office in the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress.\n\nUnder , when the chief justice is unable to discharge his functions, or when that office is vacant, the chief justice's duties are carried out by the most senior associate justice until the disability or vacancy ends. Currently, since August 2018, Clarence Thomas is the most senior associate justice.\n\nSince the Supreme Court was established in 1789, the following 17 persons have served as Chief Justice:\n\n"}
{"id": "20957074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20957074", "title": "Chinese Public Administration Society", "text": "Chinese Public Administration Society\n\nChinese Public Administration Society (CPAS) is a nationwide academic institution, whose vocation is specialized in the research of administrative theories and practices, development of administrative sciences and promoting public services.\n\nCPAS organizes research personnel engaged in administrative management throughout the country, and the relevant academic organizations and scientific research and teaching units. CPAS learns and uses the experiences of administrative management and sciences from other countries in the world, and promotes academic exchanges concerning administrative sciences with other countries. In addition, CPAS participates in international academic organizations and conducts foreign exchanges on behalf of the Chinese administrative circles.\n\nThe National Members’ Congress of the CPAS is the highest organ of its power. The council members of the CPAS are elected at the National Members’ Congress of the CPAS. The executive council members, chairman, vice-chairmen and secretary-general are elected at the CPAS Council Meeting. CPAS receives professional instructions and supervision of General Office of the State Council and Administration Center for Civil Institution Registration of the Ministry of Civil Affairs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22412024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22412024", "title": "Costs lawyer", "text": "Costs lawyer\n\nIn English law, a costs lawyer is a legal professional concerned with legal costs who has attained rights of audience and rights to conduct costs litigation.\n\nCosts lawyers are concerned with all aspects of solicitor costs that are controlled by both statute and common law. They are concerned with costs relating to all areas of the law and deal with every conceivable type of legal matter that touches upon the subject of costs. A costs lawyer's skill is as essential to successful litigation as that of a solicitor or barrister.\n\nFrom January 2011, the Association of Law Costs Draftsmen changed its name to the Association of Costs Lawyers. The Association of Costs Lawyers was granted Authorised Body Status by The Association of Law Costs Draftsmen Order 2006 (S.I. 2006 no 3333) which came into force on 1 January 2007. \n\nFrom the introduction of costs lawyer status in 2007 until 2011 any law costs draftsman who had successfully passed the Association of Costs Lawyer's training course, and had worked in costs for at least 5 years, would become a Fellow of the Association. The Fellow was then required to successfully complete an advocacy course to become a costs lawyer.\n\nHowever the process to become a costs lawyer has changed. Anyone (who is not currently a fellow of the ACL) that now wishes to become a costs lawyer must complete the Association of Costs Lawyers' three-year modular training course and pass both theory and practical exams in order to qualify. In addition they must also have been working in costs for at least 5 years.\n\nCosts lawyers have rights of audience in all proceedings being conducted under Parts 43 - 48 of the Civil Procedure Rules 1999 and under Part 52 with regard to appeals from detailed assessments before a High Court Judge or a Circuit Court Judge.\n\nThey hold rights of audience in all proceedings at first instance relating to costs before the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom (and previously the House of Lords) and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.\n\nThey also have rights of audience in all determinations as to costs in Community Legal Service regulations, Criminal Defence regulations, under section 16 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985 and the costs in Criminal Cases (General) Regulations 1986.\n\nA costs lawyer has the right to litigate under sections 64(3) and (4), 68, 69, 70, 71 and 74 of the Solicitors Act 1974 and any subsequent enactment of provisions thereof.\n\nA costs lawyer has the right to administer oaths and take affidavits under section 113 of the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990.\n\nThe three main areas in which costs lawyers may become involved are:\n\nThe unsuccessful litigant is usually ordered to pay the successful litigant’s costs and, if those costs cannot be agreed, a detailed bill of costs is prepared and served. The paying party then has to serve a schedule of points of those items in the bill he wishes to dispute before the bill is lodged at court and a detailed assessment hearing takes place at which the points are argued and a decision made by the court.\n\nA costs lawyer will also usually be involved in the costs management of substantive proceedings, by preparing and managing costs budgets.\n\nThese are costs payable by a client to his own solicitor. Different rules apply to the costs where court proceedings have been commenced, known as contentious business, to those applicable to non-contentious matters such as conveyancing, probate and general advice. A client who is unhappy with his solicitor's bill has remedies available if he wishes to challenge it. If either the client or the solicitor is dissatisfied with the outcome of that request or if the bill relates to contentious business, either the client or the solicitor may apply to the court for the bill to be assessed. A costs lawyer may be instructed to prepare a detailed bill of costs for assessment, to advise on law and procedure and, subsequently, if instructed by a solicitor or a litigant, to argue in support or to oppose the bill.\n\nWhere a solicitor is representing a publicly funded client, a detailed bill is usually required to be assessed either by the court or the Legal Services Commission before payment can be made out of the community legal fund to the solicitor. Whilst such bills are usually assessed without any formal hearing, if an amount has been disallowed in respect of which the solicitor wishes to object, an appointment can be obtained and the matter argued at a hearing. In criminal cases, the objections to an amount disallowed are usually made in writing and, often, a costs lawyer will be instructed to prepare the written submissions.\n\nThe ACL has bylaws, a code of conduct, regulations and rules that all members are required to comply with at all times. New members are required to certify that they have read all bylaws, a code of conduct, regulations and rules and agree to be bound by these.\n\nAll members, except retired and affiliate members, are required to undertake 12 hours in continuing professional development each year.\n\nWith the exception of those costs lawyers who work exclusively in a solicitor’s office on a PAYE basis (i.e. in-house), all members of the association are required to produce proof by declaration from an insurer or broker that either as an individual or as a partner, director or employee of a firm of law costs draftsmen (i.e. freelance) work undertaken is protected by professional indemnity insurance cover to the value of at least £100,000 plus loss of documents cover.\n\nA regular journal called the \"Costs Lawyer\" keeps members up to date with trends in practice, rules and law relating to the assessment of costs and general information.\n\n\n http://www.costslawyer.co.uk/\n"}
{"id": "5560419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5560419", "title": "Declaration (law)", "text": "Declaration (law)\n\nIn law, a declaration ordinarily refers to a judgment of the court or an award of an arbitration tribunal that is a binding adjudication of the rights or other legal relations of the parties which does not provide for or order enforcement. Where the declaration is made by a court, it is usually referred to as a \"declaratory judgment\". Less commonly, where declaratory relief is awarded by an arbitrator, it is normally called a \"declaratory award\".\n\nDeclaratory relief is most commonly seen in two particular circumstances:\n\nHowever, applications for declaratory relief in other areas have become more widespread, particularly in Europe. A key feature in relation to this development has been the Brussels and Lugano Conventions on civil jurisdiction and judgments relating to members of the European Economic Area (EEA). In certain circumstances, jurisdiction is awarded under the conventions to the courts first seised of the matter. This has led to a rise in defendants taking pre-emptive action by seeking \"declarations of non-liability\" in a race to the courthouse to ensure that they choose the court first seised rather than waiting for the claimant to do so.\n\nDeclaration is used (sometimes rendered as a verb) in other ways in certain legal systems.\n"}
{"id": "146720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146720", "title": "Drug Enforcement Administration", "text": "Drug Enforcement Administration\n\nThe Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) () is a United States federal law enforcement agency under the United States Department of Justice, tasked with combating drug smuggling and distribution within the United States. The DEA is the lead agency for domestic enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act, sharing concurrent jurisdiction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). It has sole responsibility for coordinating and pursuing US drug investigations both domestic and abroad.\n\nThe Drug Enforcement Administration was established on July 1, 1973, by Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1973, signed by President Richard Nixon on July 28. It proposed the creation of a single federal agency to enforce the federal drug laws as well as consolidate and coordinate the government's drug control activities. Congress accepted the proposal, as they were concerned with the growing availability of drugs. As a result, the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD), the Office of Drug Abuse Law Enforcement (ODALE); approximately 600 Special Agents of the Bureau of Customs, Customs Agency Service, and other federal offices merged to create the DEA.\n\nFrom the early 1970s, DEA headquarters was located at 1405 I (\"Eye\") Street NW in downtown Washington, D.C. With the overall growth of the agency in the 1980s (owing to the increased emphasis on federal drug law enforcement efforts) and a concurrent growth in the headquarters staff, DEA began to search for a new headquarters location; locations in Arkansas, Mississippi, and various abandoned military bases around the United States were considered. However, then-Attorney General Edwin Meese determined that the headquarters had to be located in close proximity to the Attorney General's office. Thus, in 1989, the headquarters relocated to 600–700 Army-Navy Drive in the Pentagon City area of Arlington, Virginia, near the Metro station with the same name.\n\nOn April 19, 1995, Timothy McVeigh attacked the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City because it housed regional offices for the FBI, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), and DEA, all of which had carried out raids that he viewed as unjustified intrusions on the rights of the people; this attack caused the deaths of two DEA employees, one task force member, and two contractors in the Oklahoma City bombing. Subsequently, the DEA headquarters complex was classified as a Level IV installation under United States federal building security standards, meaning it was to be considered a high-risk law enforcement target for terrorists. Security measures include hydraulic steel roadplates to enforce standoff distance from the building, metal detectors, and guard stations.\n\nIn February 2003, the DEA established a Digital Evidence Laboratory within its Office of Forensic Sciences.\n\nThe DEA is headed by an \"Administrator of Drug Enforcement\" appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The Administrator reports to the Attorney General through the Deputy Attorney General. The Administrator is assisted by a Deputy Administrator, the Chief of Operations, the Chief Inspector, and three Assistant Administrators (for the Operations Support, Intelligence, and Human Resources Divisions). Other senior staff include the chief financial officer and the Chief Counsel. The Administrator and Deputy Administrator are the only presidentially-appointed personnel in the DEA; all other DEA officials are career government employees. DEA's headquarters is located in Arlington, Virginia across from the Pentagon. It maintains its own DEA Academy located on the Marine Corps Base Quantico at Quantico, Virginia along with the FBI Academy. It maintains 21 domestic field divisions with 221 field offices and 92 foreign offices in 70 countries. With a budget exceeding $2 billion, DEA employs over 10,800 people, including over 4,600 Special Agents and 800 Intelligence Analysts. Becoming a Special Agent or Intelligence Analyst with the DEA is a competitive process.\n\n\nAs of 2017 there were 4,650 special agents employed by the Drug Enforcement Administration. DEA agents' starting salary is $49,746–$55,483. After four years working as an agent, the salary jumps to above $92,592.\n\nAfter receiving a conditional offer of employment, recruits must then complete a 19-week rigorous training which includes lessons in firearms proficiency (including basic marksmanship), weapons safety, tactical shooting, and deadly-force decision training. In order to graduate, students must maintain an academic average of 80 percent on academic examinations, pass the firearms-qualification test, successfully demonstrate leadership and sound decision-making in practical scenarios, and pass rigorous physical-task tests. Upon graduation, recruits earn the title of DEA Special Agent.\n\nThe DEA excludes from consideration job applicants who have a history of any use of narcotics or illicit drugs. Investigation usually includes a polygraph test for special-agent, diversion-investigator, and intelligence research specialist positions.\n\nThe DEA's relatively firm stance on this issue contrasts with that of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which in 2005 considered relaxing its hiring policy relevant to individual drug-use history.\n\nThe DEA Aviation Division or Office of Aviation Operations (OA) (formerly Aviation Section) is an airborne division based in Fort Worth Alliance Airport, Texas. The current OA fleet consists of 106 aircraft and 124 DEA pilots.\n\nThe DEA shares a communications system with the Department of Defense for communication with state and regional enforcement independent of the Department of Justice and police information systems and is coordinated by an information command center called the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) near El Paso, Texas.\n\nRapid Response Teams (RRT), previously known as Foreign-Deployed Advisory and Support Teams (FAST), were decommissioned by DEA Acting Administrator Chuck Rosenburg on March 2017 via memorandum.\n\nDEA officially created and standardized its Special Response Team (SRT) program in 2016 to address higher risk tactical operations in the field. DEA mandates that each major domestic office maintains an operational Special Response Team. The SRT Certification Course (SCC) consists of 11 days of SRT Basic and five days of SRT Advanced at the U.S. Army base Fort A. P. Hill in Virginia. The SCC cadre are former operators from the DEA RRT's best and most seasoned agents. The training responsibility for the SRT was transferred to the DEA Office of Training to a newly created training unit with former members of RRT. The SCC course trains SRT candidates in team movement, high-risk entry, tactical weapons proficiency, and principles of dynamic operations.\n\nSome of the SRT missions consist of high-risk arrests, vehicle assault, specialized surveillance, custody of high-profile individuals, dignitary and witness protection, tactical surveillance and interdiction, advanced breaching, tactical training to other police units, and urban and rural fugitive searches.\n\nIn the past, DEA had other tactical teams like the High-risk Entry Apprehension Teams (HEAT) in some Field Divisions, and Operation Snowcap Teams (predecessor of FAST). The teams administered by the Mobile Enforcement Section, the Mobile Enforcement Teams (MET), and Regional Enforcement Teams (RET), were mobile investigative units intended to deploy resources to state and local agencies (MET) or DEA Field Divisions (RET) in need of assistance with a particular investigation or trafficking group. These programs ended in the early 2000s.\n\nThe DEA Special Operations Division (SOD) is a division within the DEA, which forwards information from wiretaps, intercepts and databases from various sources to federal agents and local law enforcement officials. The SOD came under scrutiny following the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures.\n\nThe Domestic Cannabis Eradication/Suppression Program (DCE/SP) began funding eradication programs in Hawaii and California in 1979. The program rapidly expanded to include programs in 25 states by 1982. By 1985, all 50 States were participating in the DCE/SP. In 2015, the DCE/SP was responsible for the eradication of 3,932,201 cultivated outdoor cannabis plants and 325,019 indoor plants for a total of 4,257,220 marijuana plants. In addition, the DCE/SP accounted for 6,278 arrests and the seizure in excess of $29.7 million of cultivator assets.\n\nIn 2014, the DEA spent $73,000 to eradicate marijuana plants in Utah, though they did not find a single marijuana plant. Federal documents obtained by journalist Drew Atkins detail the DEA's continuing efforts to spend upwards of $14 million per year to completely eradicate marijuana within the United States despite the government funding allocation reports showing that the Marijuana Eradication Program often leads to the discovery of no marijuana plants. This prompted twelve members of Congress to push for the elimination of the program and use the money instead to fund domestic-violence prevention and deficit-reduction programs.\n\nIn FY 2018 the DEA budget was $2086.6 million. $445 million was spent on international enforcement and $1,627 million was spent on Domestic Enforcement.\n\n\nDEA agents' primary service weapons are the Glock 22 and Glock 23, Remington 870 12-gauge shotgun, and Rock River Arms LAR-15 semi-automatic carbine in 5.56×45mm NATO. Agents may also qualify to carry a firearm listed on an authorized carry list maintained and updated by the Firearms Training Unit (FTU), Quantico, VA.\n\nSpecial Agents may qualify with their own personally-owned handguns, rifle, and shotgun, and certain handguns are allowed to be used with permission from the FTU. Agents are required to attend tactical and firearms proficiency training quarterly, and to qualify with their handguns twice per year. The DEA has one of the most challenging handgun qualification courses in all of federal law enforcement. Failure to achieve a passing qualification score is the reason for most Academy dismissals and special agents in the field may have their authority to carry a firearm revoked for failure to qualify.\n\nBasic Agent Trainees (BATs) who fail the initial pistol qualification course of fire are placed in a remedial program to receive additional training. In remedial training, BATs receive five extra two-hour range sessions, for a total of 10 more hours of live fire training on their issued sidearm, in order to further aid them in helping pass the pistol qualification. After passing their pistol qualification, Basic Agent Trainees move on to receive formal training on the DEA's standard-issue long guns and will continue to frequently shoot their agency-issued sidearm that they have already qualified on. In all, BATs receive a total of 32 firearms training sessions, when combining classroom instruction, gear issue, and pistol, rifle, and shotgun live fire training at the DEA Academy. They will shoot the qualification courses for all three weapons systems during their initial training, but must pass their final qualification attempts only on their Glock pistols in order to become a Special Agent.\n\nTrained to use shoulder-fired weapons, the Rock River LAR-15, adopted in 2004, and the LWRC M6A2 is the standard carbine of DEA. The Colt 9mm SMG was previously issued, but no longer in service. Agents are required to complete a two-day (16-hour) proficiency course in order to carry a shoulder weapon on enforcement operations. They may carry a Rock River LAR-15 or LWRC carbine as authorized, personally-owned weapons, provided they meet the same training and proficiency standards.\n\nIn 2005, the DEA seized a reported $1.4 billion in drug trade related assets and $477 million worth of drugs. According to the White House's Office of Drug Control Policy, the total value of all of the drugs sold in the U.S. is as much as $64 billion a year, giving the DEA an efficiency rate of less than 1% at intercepting the flow of drugs into and within the U.S. Critics of the DEA (including recipient of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, Milton Friedman, prior to his death a member of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition) point out that demand for illegal drugs is inelastic; the people who are buying drugs will continue to buy them with little regard to price, often turning to crime to support expensive drug habits when the drug prices rise. One recent study by the DEA showed that the price of cocaine and methamphetamine is the highest it has ever been while the quality of both is at its lowest point ever. This is contrary to a collection of data done by the Office of National Drug Control Policy, which states that purity of street drugs has increased, while price has decreased. In contrast to the statistics presented by the DEA, the United States Department of Justice released data in 2003 showing that purity of methamphetamine was on the rise.\n\nThe DEA has a registration system in place which authorizes anyone to manufacture, import, export, and distribute by filing DEA form 225 along with medical professionals, researchers and manufacturers access to \"Schedule I\" drugs, as well as Schedules 2, 3, 4 and 5. Authorized registrants apply for and, if granted, receive a \"DEA number\". An entity that has been issued a DEA number is authorized to manufacture (drug companies), distribute, research, prescribe (doctors, pharmacists, nurse practitioners and physician assistants, etc.) or dispense (pharmacy) a controlled substance.\n\nMany problems associated with drug abuse are the result of legitimately-manufactured controlled substances being diverted from their lawful purpose into the illicit drug traffic. Many of the analgesics, depressants and stimulants manufactured for legitimate medical use can often carry potential for dependence or abuse. Therefore, those scheduled substances have been brought under legal control for prevention and population safety. The goal of controls is to ensure that these \"controlled substances\" are readily available for medical use, while preventing their distribution for illicit distribution and non-medical use. This can be a difficult task, sometimes providing difficulty for legitimate patients and healthcare providers while circumventing illegal trade and consumption of scheduled drugs.\n\nUnder federal law, all businesses which manufacture or distribute controlled drugs, all health professionals entitled to dispense, administer or prescribe them, and all pharmacies entitled to fill prescriptions must register with the DEA. Registrants must comply with a series of regulatory requirements relating to drug security, records accountability, and adherence to standards.\n\nAll of these investigations are conducted by Diversion Investigators (DIs). DIs conduct investigations to uncover and investigate suspected sources of diversion and take appropriate civil and administrative actions. Prescription Database Management Programs (PDMP) aid and facilitate investigation and surveillance.\n\nIn 1985 MDMA and its analogues were under review by the American government as a drug for potential of abuse. During this time, several public hearings on the new drug were held by the DEA. Based on all of the evidence and facts presented at the time, the DEA's administrative law judge did not see MDMA and its analogues as being of large concern and recommended that they be placed in Schedule III. The DEA administrator, expressing concern for abuse potential, overruled the recommendation and ruled that MDMA be put in Schedule I, the Controlled Substances Act's most restrictive category.\n\nThe DEA has been criticized for placing highly restrictive schedules on a few drugs which researchers in the fields of pharmacology and medicine regard as having medical uses. Critics assert that some such decisions are motivated primarily by political factors stemming from the U.S. government's War on Drugs, and that many benefits of such substances remain unrecognized due to the difficulty of conducting scientific research. A counterpoint to that criticism is that under the Controlled Substances Act it is the Department of Health and Human Services (through the Food and Drug Administration and the National Institute on Drug Abuse), not the DEA, which has the legal responsibility to make scientific and medical determinations with respect to drug scheduling; no drug can be scheduled if the Secretary of Health and Human Services recommends against it on a scientific or medical basis, and no drug can be placed in the most restrictive schedule (Schedule I) if DHHS finds that the drug has an accepted medical use. Jon Gettman's essay \"Science and the End of Marijuana Prohibition\" describes the DEA as \"a fall guy to deflect responsibility from the key decision-makers\" and opines, \"HHS calls the shots when it comes to marijuana prohibition, and the cops at DEA and the general over at ONDCP take the heat.\"\n\nThe DEA is also criticized for focusing on the operations from which it can seize the most money, namely the organized cross-border trafficking of marijuana. Some individuals contemplating the nature of the DEA's charter advise that, based on danger, the DEA should be most focused on cocaine. Others suggest that, based on opiate popularity, the DEA should focus much more on prescription opiates used recreationally, which critics contend comes first before users switch to heroin.\n\nPractitioners who legally prescribe medicine however must possess a valid DEA license. According to federal law the budget of the DEA Diversion Control Program is to be paid by these license fees. In 1984 a three-year license cost $25. In 2009 the fee for a three-year license was $551. Some have likened this approach to license fees unreasonable, \"like making pilot licenses support the entire Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) budget.\"\n\nThe total budget of the DEA from 1972 to 2014, according to the agency website, was $50.6 billion. The agency had 11,055 employees in 2014. For the year 2014 the average cost per arrest made was $97,325.\n\nOthers, such as former Republican congressman Ron Paul, the Cato Institute, The Libertarian Party and the Drug Policy Alliance criticize the very existence of the DEA and the War on Drugs as both hostile, and contrary, to the concept of civil liberties by arguing that anybody should be free to put any substance they choose into their own bodies for any reason, particularly when legal drugs such as alcohol, tobacco and prescription drugs are also open to abuse, and that any harm caused by a drug user or addict to the general public is a case of conflicting civil rights. Recurrently, billions of dollars are spent yearly, focusing largely on criminal law and demand reduction campaigns, which has resulted in the imprisonments of thousands of U.S. citizens. Demand for recreational drugs is somewhat static as the market for most illegal drugs has been saturated, forcing the cartels to expand their market to Europe and other areas than the United States. United States federal law registers cannabis as a Schedule I drug.\n\nSome groups advocate legalization of certain controlled substances under the premise that doing so may reduce the volume of illicit trafficking and associated crime as well as yield a valuable tax source, although some of the results of drug legalization have raised doubt about some of these beliefs. For example, marijuana is now available as a palliative agent, in Canada, with a medical prescription. Yet 86% of Canadians with HIV/AIDS, eligible for a prescription, continue to obtain marijuana illegally (AIDS Care. 2007 Apr;19(4):500-6.) However, this could be due to the availability or quality of illegal cannabis compared to provisions by government sources. Bureaucratic impediments may also discourage patients from actually attempting to receive it from the government.\n\nAn April 2012 DEA raid on a California home led to the incarceration of Daniel Chong for several days under conditions of neglect. The 23-year-old student attending the University of California, San Diego was taken into custody along with eight other people when the DEA executed a raid on a suspected MDMA distribution operation at a residence that he was visiting to celebrate the April 20 cannabis \"holiday\" known as \"420\". According to Chong, the DEA agents questioned him and told him that he could go home, one even offering him a ride home, but instead he was transferred to a holding cell and confined for five days without any food or water, although Chong said he ingested a powdery substance that was left for him, which was later found to be methamphetamine. After five days and two suicide attempts, DEA agents found Chong. He was taken to the hospital, where he spent three days in intensive care, because his kidneys were close to failing. No criminal charges were filed against Chong. A DEA spokesperson stated that the extended detention was accidental and the acting special agent in charge of the San Diego DEA office issued an apology to Chong. Chong disputes the claim of accidental neglect, saying that DEA personnel ignored his calls for help. His attorney stated an intent to file a claim against the federal government and some members of California's delegation to the Congress called for further investigation of the incident.\n\nOn 12 August 2013, at the American Bar Association's House of Delegates meeting, Attorney General Eric Holder announced the \"Smart on Crime\" program, which is \"a sweeping initiative by the Justice Department that in effect renounces several decades of tough-on-crime anti-drug legislation and policies.\" Holder said the program \"will encourage U.S. attorneys to charge defendants only with crimes \"for which the accompanying sentences are better suited to their individual conduct, rather than excessive prison terms more appropriate for violent criminals or drug kingpins…\" Running through Holder's statements, the increasing economic burden of over-incarceration was stressed. , the Smart on Crime program is not a legislative initiative but an effort \"limited to the DOJ's policy parameters.\"\n\nDavid Coleman Headley (born Daood Sayed Gilani; 30 June 1960) who was working as an informant for the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) simultaneously made periodic trips to Pakistan for LeT training and was one of main conspirator in 2008 Mumbai attacks\nOn January 24, 2013, Headley, then 52 years old, was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in Chicago to 35 years in prison for his part in the 2008 Mumbai attacks, in which at least 164 victims (civilians and security personnel) and nine attackers were killed. Among the dead were 28 foreign nationals from 10 countries. One attacker was captured. The bodies of many of the dead hostages showed signs of torture or disfigurement. A number of those killed were notable figures in business, media, and security services.\n\nThe DEA was accused in 2005 by the Venezuelan government of collaborating with drug traffickers, after which President Hugo Chávez decided to end any collaboration with the agency. In 2007, after the U.S. State Department criticized Venezuela in its annual report on drug trafficking, the Venezuelan Minister of Justice reiterated the accusations: \"A large quantity of drug shipments left the country through that organization.We were in the presence of a new drug cartel.\"\nIn his 1996 series of articles and subsequent 1999 book, both titled Dark Alliance, journalist Gary Webb asserts that the DEA helped harbor Nicaraguan drug traffickers. Notably, they allowed Oscar Danilo Blandón political asylum in the USA despite knowledge of his cocaine trafficking organization.\n\nThe government of Bolivia has also taken similar steps to ban the DEA from operating in the country. In September 2008, Bolivia drastically reduced diplomatic ties with the United States, withdrawing its ambassador from the US and expelling the US ambassador from Bolivia. This occurred soon after Bolivian president Evo Morales expelled all DEA agents from the country due to a revolt in the traditional coca-growing Chapare Province. The Bolivian government claimed that it could not protect the agents, and Morales further accused the agency of helping incite the violence, which claimed 30 lives. National agencies were to take over control of drug management. Three years later, Bolivia and the US began to restore full diplomatic ties. However, Morales maintained that the DEA would remain unwelcome in the country, characterising it as an affront to Bolivia's \"dignity and sovereignty\".\n\nIn the Netherlands, both the Dutch government and the DEA have been criticized for violations of Dutch sovereignty in drug investigations. According to Peter R. de Vries, a Dutch journalist present at the 2005 trial of Henk Orlando Rommy, the DEA has admitted to activities on Dutch soil. Earlier, then Minister of Justice Piet Hein Donner, had denied to the Dutch parliament that he had given permission to the DEA for any such activities, which would have been a requirement by Dutch law in order to allow foreign agents to act within the territory.\n\nIn 2013 \"Reuters\" published a report about the DEA's Special Operations Division (SOD) stating that it conceals where an investigative trail about a suspect truly originates from and creates a parallel set of evidence given to prosecutors, judges, and defense lawyers. This DEA program mainly affects common criminals such as drug dealers. The concealment of evidence means the defendant is unaware of how his or her investigation began and will be unable to request a review possible sources of exculpatory evidence. Exculpatory evidence may include biased witnesses, mistakes, or entrapment. Nancy Gertner, a former federal judge who had served from 1994 to 2011 and a Harvard Law School professor, stated that \"It is one thing to create special rules for national security. Ordinary crime is entirely different. It sounds like they are phonying up investigations.\" Andrew O'Hehir of \"Salon\" wrote that \"It’s the first clear evidence that the “special rules” and disregard for constitutional law that have characterized the hunt for so-called terrorists have crept into the domestic criminal justice system on a significant scale.\"\n\nA 2014 report by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies and the Drug Policy Alliance accuses the DEA of unfairly blocking the removal of cannabis from Schedule I. The report alleges that the methods employed by the DEA to achieve this include: delaying rescheduling petitions for years, overruling DEA administrative law judges, and systematically impeding scientific research. The DEA continues to refuse the removal of cannabis from Schedule I despite wide-scale acceptance of the substance among the medical community, including 76% of doctors, for the treatment of various disease.\n\nThe DEA, in addition to enforcement, also regularly engage in advocacy, specifically against rescheduling marijuana, by publishing policy-based papers on certain drugs. Somehave criticized the DEA for using tax dollars in what they call an attempt to change public opinion, which they call an overreach from the scope of the agency's job of enforcement, and that by releasing such non-peer-reviewed reports is a transparent attempt to justify its own activities. They have claimed that since the DEA is not, by law, an advocacy group, but a legal enforcement group, that those press releases are tantamount to what they consider domestic propaganda.\n\nThe DEA has taken a particularly strong stance on enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act on persons and organizations acting within state laws that allow medical cannabis cultivation and distribution. DEA agency executive, Chuck Rosenberg has made negative statements against patients who use medical marijuana. Chuck Rosenberg has mentioned that he considers medical marijuana to be a \"joke.\" As a reaction against the negative statements made by Chuck Rosenberg towards medical marijuana, an international online petition has been formed. More than 159,737 signatures have been gathered globally with the intention that Chuck Rosenberg will be fired or forced to resign as head of DEA.\n\n\"The people of California and the County of Santa Cruz have overwhelmingly supported the provision of medical marijuana for people who have serious illnesses,\" county Supervisor Mardi Wormhoudt told the \"San Francisco Gate\". \"These people (blocking the road) are people with AIDS and cancer and other grave illnesses. To attack these people, who work collectively and have never taken money for their work, is outrageous.\"\n\nAs a result, the Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana, with the City and County of Santa Cruz, had sued the DEA, Attorney General Michael Mukasey, and the ONDCP. The most recent court decision rejected the government's motion to dismiss, which allowed discovery to move forward. The American Civil Liberties Union hailed the decision as \"a first-of-its-kind ruling.\"\n\nMore recently, the DEA has escalated its enforcement efforts on the recently proliferated Los Angeles area medical cannabis collectives. On July 25, 2007, the DEA raided the California Patients Group, Hollywood Compassionate Collective, and Natural Hybrid (NHI Caregivers) in Hollywood, California. Earlier that day, the operators of those collectives participated in a press conference with LA City Council members announcing the City's intention to regulate the collectives and asking the DEA to halt raids on collectives while the City drafted regulations. The dispensary operator of Natural Hybrid (NHI Caregivers) was forced to close down the collective due to the tremendous loss caused by the DEA conducted joint task force raid against them.\n\nIn 2008 the Special Operations part of the agency launched a multi-agency effort named Project Cassandra to investigate the Iranian-backed terrorist group Hezbollah for illicit drug trafficking and terrorist financing. The investigation identified an Iranian cell in the U.S. which worked in concert with a Lebanese bank called the Lebanese Canadian Bank to launder money using the purchase of used automobiles exported to Africa. Project Cassandra also identified hemispheric drug syndicates involved in cocaine trafficking in order to finance Hezbollah terrorism. The Department of Justice issued several sealed indictments, but declined to seize, prosecute, extradite, or further investigate likely targets of these alleged foreign criminal activities operating in the United States due to White House diplomatic objectives involving the international nuclear agreement with Iran. On December 22, 2017, the Attorney General Jeff Sessions ordered a review of prior cases in the project.\n\nIn 1999, the DEA opened the Drug Enforcement Administration Museum in Arlington, Virginia. The original permanent exhibit – Illegal Drugs in America: A Modern History – remains the museum's centerpiece. The exhibit features \"the more than 150 year history of drugs and drug abuse and the DEA,\" including a considerable collection of drug paraphernalia and an image of a smiling drug vendor under the heading \"Jimmy's Joint\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2904974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2904974", "title": "Edict of Beaulieu", "text": "Edict of Beaulieu\n\nThe Edict of Beaulieu (also known at the time as the Peace of Monsieur) was promulgated from Beaulieu-lès-Loches on 6 May 1576 by Henry III of France, who was pressured by Alençon's support of the Protestant army besieging Paris that spring. \n\nThe Edict, which was negotiated by the king's brother, \"Monsieur\"— François, duc d'Alençon, who was now made duc d'Anjou— gave Huguenots the right of public worship for their religion, thenceforth officially called the \"religion prétendue réformée\" (\"supposed reformed religion\"), throughout France, except at Paris and at Court. In eight parlements there were also to be established chambers, called the \"mi-partis\" because they were composed of equal numbers of Catholics and Huguenots; eight \"places de sûreté\" were to be given to the Huguenots; there was to be a disclaimer of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew, and the families which had suffered from it were to be reinstated. These large concessions to the Huguenots and the approbation given to their political organization led to the formation of the Catholic League, which was organized by Catholics anxious to defend their religion. \n\nThe King held a \"lit de justice\" in the Parlement of Paris on 14 May to subvent pending opposition in the strongly Catholic \"parlement\" and to ensure that the Edict was duly inscribed. In December 1576, however, the States-General of Blois declared itself against the Edict of Beaulieu. Thereupon the Protestants took up arms under the leadership of Henry of Navarre, who, escaping from the Court, had returned to the Calvinism which he had abjured at the time of the Massacre of St. Bartholomew. The advantage was on the Catholic side, thanks to some successes achieved by the duc d'Anjou. In September 1577, the Treaty of Bergerac, confirmed by the Edict of Poitiers, left the Huguenots the free exercise of their religion only in the suburbs of one town in each bailiwick (\"bailliage\"), and in those places where it had been practiced before the outbreak of hostilities and which they occupied at the current date. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "45008603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45008603", "title": "Flyer (pamphlet)", "text": "Flyer (pamphlet)\n\nA flyer is a form of paper advertisement intended for wide distribution and typically posted or distributed in a public place, handed out to individuals or sent through the mail. In the 2010s, flyers range from inexpensively photocopied leaflets to expensive, glossy, full-color circulars.\n\nA flyer is also called a \"flier\", \"circular\", \"handbill\", \"pamphlet\", \"poster\", \"lit'\" (literature), \"weekly ad\", \"catalogue\" or \"leaflet\".\n\nFlyers may be used by individuals, businesses, not-for-profit organizations or governments to:\n\nLike postcards, pamphlets and small posters, flyers are a low-cost form of mass marketing or communication. There are many different flyer formats. Some examples include:\nFlyers are inexpensive to produce and they required only a basic printing press from the 18th century to the 20th century. Their widespread use intensified in the 1990s with the spread of less expensive desktop publishing systems. In the 2010s, inexpensive black and white flyers can be produced with just a personal computer and a computer printer. In the 2010s, the ordering of flyers through traditional printing services has been supplanted by Internet services. Customers send designs, review proofs online or via e-mail and receive the final products by mail.\n\nFlyers are not a new medium: prior to the War of American Independence some colonists were outraged with the Stamp Act (1765) and gathered together in anti-stamp act congresses and meetings. In these congresses they had to win support, and issued handbills and leaflets, pamphlets, along with other written paraphernalia, to do so.\n\nIn the 2000s, some jurisdictions have laws or ordinances banning or restricting leafleting or flyering in certain locations. Owners of private property may put up signs saying \"Post No Bills\"; this occurs particularly on wooden fences surrounding building sites or vacant lots.\n\nFlyers are handed out on the street (a practice known as \"flyering\" or \"leafleting\"), distributed door-to-door through the mail, posted on bulletin boards, put under windshield wipers of cars, given away at events or on the street, or affixed to telephone poles, walls, or other surfaces. Bulletin boards are found on college campuses, in cafés, community meeting houses, laundromats and small markets. Cheap to produce, contemporary flyers are frequently produced in 300 g/m glossy card, whereas a leaflet might be produced on a 130 g/m–170 g/m weight paper and can be a very effective form of direct marketing.\n\nIn the 2010s, some individuals and organizations send flyers through e-mail, a tactic that avoids spending money on paper, printing and mailing or hiring people to post the flyers on telephone poles or hand them out. The electronic flyer may be embedded into the body of the e-mail or added as an attachment to be opened.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32177366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32177366", "title": "Freedom Flotilla II", "text": "Freedom Flotilla II\n\n\"Freedom Flotilla II – Stay Human\" was a flotilla that planned to break the maritime blockade of the Gaza Strip by Israel by sailing to Gaza on 5 July 2011. Ultimately, the sailing did not take place.\n\nThe flotilla was organized by a coalition of 22 NGOs. Its name refers to the May 2010 Gaza Freedom Flotilla. Their stated goal was to end the blockade of Gaza \"completely and permanently\". Initially, 10 ships, with 1,000 activists were set to sail for Gaza, but by 28 June 2011, the number of expected participants had decreased to fewer than 300, plus a few dozen journalists, and by 7 July all but a few dozen activists had returned home.\n\nThe flotilla was publicly opposed by the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Canada, the Middle East Quartet (consisting of the European Union, Russia, the United Nations, and the United States), and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. It was publicly supported by Hamas.\n\nActivists on two ships, one in Greece and one in Turkey, found similar damage to their propeller shafts, and claimed that the ships had been sabotaged by Israel. It was reported that the investigation by Turkish authorities on one of the ships determined that there may have been no sabotage at all, and that any damage happened before the boat arrived in Turkey, but these media reports appeared prior to the formal investigation beginning and the Turkish coastguard enquiry has yet to announce its findings. The media reports were disputed by Irish Ship to Gaza, the owner of the vessel. Greece forbade the vessels from leaving its ports, citing safety concerns, but offered to instead send any humanitarian aid to Gaza in its own vessels, under United Nations supervision. Greece's offer was supported by Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and the United Nations, but rejected by the flotilla activists. Subsequently, two flotilla ships, the \"Audacity of Hope\" and \"Tahrir\", disobeyed Greece's orders. They were intercepted by the Greek coast guard, brought back to shore, and a few activists were arrested. Activists responded by occupying the Spanish embassy in Athens.\n\nOnly the French ship \"Dignité Al Karama\" managed to approach Gaza. They advised the Greek authorities that their destination was the Egyptian port of Alexandria, and then turned toward Gaza. On 19 July, the ship was intercepted and boarded without incident by Israeli commandos and escorted to the Israeli port of Ashdod.\n\nAfter the 2007, Fatah-Hamas conflict, Israel and Egypt closed off their respective borders with Gaza, preventing most goods and nearly all people from going in and out.\n\nAt the end of May 2010 a flotilla of six ships left from Turkey towards the Gaza Strip. The main purpose of the flotilla, according to its organizers, was to bring humanitarian supplies to the Gaza Strip. On 31 May 2010 the Israeli navy raided the ships some 40 kilometres away from Gaza shores. During the takeover, a violent confrontation occurred in which nine activists were killed on one of the ships and several Israeli soldiers were injured as well as dozens of passengers from several ships. At the end of the operation the ships were seized by the Israeli navy and taken to the port of Ashdod.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Gaza flotilla raid, international outrage contributed to a shift in Israeli policy. Both Israel and Egypt eased their blockade, letting in more goods over land. In June 2010 Egypt decided to open the land crossings between Egypt and the Gaza Strip in order to transfer a minimal amount of supplies.\n\nAfter the events of the 2011 flotilla raid, organizations from several countries declared their intention to send more ships to break the blockade on Gaza. As a result, the Israeli government announced that the any ships attempting to break the blockade of the Gaza Strip would be arrested.\n\nOpinions on the legality of Israel's blockade of the Gaza strip, as well as on the use of force in international waters to maintain the blockade, are divided.\n\nOn 3 July 2011, the Greek government offered to bring humanitarian aid to Gaza themselves, but Greece's offer was turned down by the activists.\n\nThe flotilla was named in memory of Vittorio Arrigoni, an Italian reporter and activist whose killing by suspected members of a Palestinian Salafist group in Gaza in April 2011 \"left the Palestinian activist community stunned.\" His favourite expression was \"Stay Human\".\n\nOriginally it was thought that the MV \"Mavi Marmara\" would lead the flotilla, but in mid-June, IHH announced that the ship would be unable to sail due to technical issues. As of 10 July 2011, the following ships had planned on sailing to reach Gaza:\n\nThe following boats did not set sail:\n\nInitially, 10 ships, with 1,000 activists from 20 countries were said to be set to sail for Gaza from various European ports, with humanitarian aid, during the last days of June, or few days of July 2011. As of 28 June 2011, however, the number of expected participants had decreased to 350, plus a few dozen journalists. By 7 July, all but a few dozen activists had returned home.\n\nThe flotilla was organized by various NGOs:\n\n\nThe IHH announced plans for the new flotilla, again led by the MV \"Mavi Marmara\" to depart for Gaza in June 2011. IHH President Fehmi Bülent Yıldırım said \"Even if we sacrifice shahids (martyrs) for this cause, we will be on the side of justice.\" In June 2011, the IHH conveyed a message to the Israeli government through Turkish Jews that the organization was not interested in another clash with Israel, and a proposal that the ships be inspected in a third-party country, such as Cyprus, before being allowed into Gaza.\n\nPlans for the new flotilla were met with international opposition. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged Mediterranean governments to discourage the new flotilla and send aid through \"legitimate crossings and established channels\", the United States warned against the flotilla reportedly considered asking Turkey to host a peace summit between Israel and the Palestinian Authority provided that it stop it, and Canada warned its nationals not to participate in the flotilla and called it \"provocative\". Turkey urged activists to reconsider the need for a flotilla in light of the newly opened Rafah crossing, but also urged Israel to act wisely and avoid past mistakes.\n\nSeveral Dutch journalists who were due to travel in the flotilla backed out in late June, accusing the organizers of non-transparency, particularly with regard to their relations with Hamas, restrictiveness, dishonesty and \"shocking\" gullibility. Journalist Eric Beauchemin said, \"never have I seen a more closed organization. When we would ask critical questions they would accuse us of being unprofessional. Restrictions were imposed on us that hadn't been agreed upon beforehand.\"\n\nIn France, a ship purchased for the flotilla was prevented from sailing after being denied permission to dock in Marseille. The move followed intense political pressure by the Jewish community on members of Parliament, political parties, and organizations, which in turn pressured insurance companies and authorities. A day before, the IHH had announced that was rethinking its participation in the flotilla and might withdraw from the initiative. On 17 June, İHH announced that they are still part of the flotilla movement, though the \"Mavi Marmara\" pulled out from the flotilla because, according to Yıldırım, president of IHH, \"after the damage caused to the \"Mavi Marmara\" [last year], we are not in a position to go to sea\".\n\nTwo of the vessels taking part in the flotilla set sail from the French island of Corsica to Greece, to meet up with the other vessels. The vessels docked in Piraeus. However, the French vessel \"Dignité – Al Karama\" did not dock, and proceeded directly towards the Gaza Strip.\n\nOn 27 June 2011, activists announced that they had discovered damage to two of the vessels, the \"Juliano\" and MV \"Saoirse\". Both the vessels had their propellers and pipes leading to their engines damaged. According to Flotilla spokesman Dror Feiler, there was no direct evidence Israel was involved, and he estimated the damage would take several days to repair. Other flotilla organizers suspected that the damage was the result of a sabotage operation by Israeli naval divers, and demanded that the Greek police and port authorities provide security for the vessels. Some activists announced that they themselves planned to guard the vessels. On 29 June, the MV \"Saoirse\" sustained damage while docked in Turkey. Activists claimed that the damage was caused by Israeli divers, who were able to avoid detection by guards stationed on the vessel.\n\nA number of passengers on the flotilla said they had been mugged on the streets near the port and had mobile phones stolen, and that suspicious \"fishermen\" had been sighted near the ships, loitering without bait or buckets, by waters that are known to be contaminated.\n\nIsrael flatly rejected the accusations as \"paranoid\" and accused the activists of \"living in a James Bond film.\"\n\nSelcuk Unal, a spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry, said that an investigation by Turkish authorities determined that there was no act of sabotage on the Irish ship, which had been docked in the Turkish port of Gocek. These claims have been disputed by Activists who called for an independent investigation into how the MV \"Saoirse\" was damaged.\n\nDue to the damage, the MV \"Saoirse's\" plans to join the flotilla were cancelled but several Irish activists went to Corfu to join the Italian/Dutch ship, the MV \"Stefano Chiarini\".\n\nThe Irish Ship to Gaza campaign later repaired the MV \"Saoirse\" and in November 2011, joined by the Canadian ship, the MV \"Tahrir\", it slipped out of Turkey and sailed for Gaza. This sailing was called the \"Freedom Waves to Gaza\" flotilla. Both ships were intercepted by Israeli warships some 50 miles from Gaza. Both ships and 27 activists and crew – 14 Irish citizens and 13 Canadian, Australian, US and Greek citizens – were brought by force to Ashdod, imprisoned for a week and then expelled from Israel.\n\nGreece announced that any vessels bound for Gaza are forbidden from leaving their ports. Greece emphasized safety concerns and noted that the Secretary General of the United Nations, the European Council, the Middle East Quartet and Greece itself had already urged against participation in the flotilla.\n\nGreece offered to transfer the cargo onto Greek ships, and transport humanitarian aid through established aid channels, as requested by the UN Secretary General. The offer was supported by Israel, the Palestinian Authority and the United Nations, but rejected by the flotilla activists.\n\nOn 1 July, the American-manned flotilla boat \"Audacity of Hope\", which was not carrying any aid, sailed from Perama in violation of this Greek ban. It was intercepted after about ten minutes by an armed Hellenic Coast Guard boat and two Zodiac speedboats. An hours-long standoff ensued, with the coast guard initially trying to persuade the boat to turn back. Eventually, the boat was boarded by armed coast guard personnel and escorted to a Greek naval facility. Greek authorities arrested the American captain of the boat, John Klusmire, and held him on charges of endangering the lives of the boat's passengers, which is a felony, and of trying to leave port without permission. Activists responded by launching a hunger strike. Klusmire was released from custody on 5 July, but the charges against him were not dropped. \"Only a fool thought we'd get to Gaza given what happened last year. We knew we'd be stopped,\" said Henry Norr, an activist on the boat.\n\nOn 4 July, the mainly Canadian-manned \"Tahrir\" sailed from Crete in violation of the ban. It did so without its original Greek crew on board, and instead with \"international volunteers\" piloting the boat. Canadian Soha Kneen and Australian Michael Coleman were arrested after they used kayaks to surround a Greek coast guard vessel pursuing the boat. The coast guard vessel caught up to the \"Tahrir\" after about 15 minutes. Passengers attempted to protect the wheelhouse by draping it with netting and blocking doorways by sitting in front of them and linking arms. The \"Tahrir\" was sprayed with water cannons, boarded by armed officers, and towed back to port. One activist claimed that two officers boarded the boat, and one had a pistol drawn as he approached the boat's wheelhouse to take control. Canadian citizen Sandra Ruch, who was responsible for the boat, was arrested on charges of illegally sailing without permission. Fifty other passengers were detained by the Greek coastal authority. Activists claimed that the coast guard vessel rammed the boat against a cement pier and demanded that it be fixed immediately at Greece's expense. Activists Soha Kneen and Michael Coleman were tried and found guilty of obstructing the interception of the \"Tahrir\", and were sentenced to 30 days in prison. Both had their sentences suspended and were released, but were fined 246 Euros in court costs.\n\nIn the early morning of 5 July, the French yacht \"Dignité – Al Karama\", carrying eight passengers, evaded the Greek coast guard and left a port near Athens, but turned back on its own after several hours. Reportedly, the activists aboard the vessel did not want to be the only ones sailing to the Gaza Strip. Later, the vessel attempted to depart again in defiance of the Greek ban, but was stopped and taken to the port of Sitia on the island of Crete. Greek authorities said that during these events the yacht collided with a Greek coast guard vessel and damaged it.\n\nOn 5 July, about 20 Spanish activists from the ship \"Guernica\" occupied the Spanish embassy in Athens to protest the Greek travel ban.\n\nOn 7 July 2011 most of the activists withdrew from the initiative and left Greece for home. Only a few dozen remained to try to convince the Greek government to end its travel ban.\n\nOn 16 July, the French yacht \"Dignité Al Karama\" left the Greek island of Kastellorizo after informing Greek authorities that its destination was the Egyptian port of Alexandria. Instead, the vessel headed for Gaza. Aboard the yacht were 16 people, including three crew members and journalists from Al Jazeera, as well as Amira Hass, an Israeli journalist from \"Haaretz\".\n\n\"Dignité Al Karama\" was stopped by the Israeli Navy about 65 kilometers off the coast of Gaza, in international waters, after ignoring warnings that it was approaching the Gaza blockade line and must change course for either Ashdod or Egypt. The yacht was surrounded by at least three Israeli warships and boarded by Shayetet 13 naval commandos, who took over the vessel, arrested the passengers, and transferred them to a warship. The operation was conducted without any resistance from the passengers or use of violence by the commandos. The vessel was towed to Ashdod port and searched. No weapons or humanitarian aid were found on board. The passengers were taken to Ashdod, where Haaretz journalist Amira Hass was released. The remaining 15 passengers were transferred to Holon, where they were interviewed by Immigration Authority personnel and signed documents stipulating that they would leave the country within 72 hours, before being deported.\n\nThe Paris-based organisers described the Israeli naval interception as \"an act of violence and an illegal act,\" and as \"a new act of piracy against harmless people\".\n\nIsraeli officials stated that the flotilla's main purpose was to cause a provocation which was designed to serve Hamas's military objectives.\n\nIsraeli authorities said that they wish to avoid clashes with the activists, and promised flotilla organizers that if they dock at the Israeli port of Ashdod, humanitarian aid would be delivered by Israel directly to Gaza. It warned the flotilla organizers that if they were to attempt to break the blockade, it would intercept the ships and that Israeli forces would defend themselves if they were attacked. To deal with any casualties that could result from a naval interception from the flotilla, the Israeli Navy converted the mess halls on two vessels into operating rooms fully equipped for surgery, and planned for them to feature a full medical staff, including surgeons and anesthesiologists. Medevac helicopters were also planned be at hand in case any of the injured needed to be evacuated to hospitalized in Israel, and Medical Corps personnel were to be deployed at the port of Ashdod.\n\nA top Israeli naval officer warned that Israel would prevent the ships from breaking its blockade on Gaza at all costs, and that Israel would again use force if required, including boarding the ships and confronting the activists. Brig. Gen. Yoav Mordechai added, \"There is an unequivocal directive from the government to enforce the naval blockade that is recognized by international law, and we will not allow it to be broken.\" The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) began training personnel for future flotillas. In addition to Shayetet 13 commandos, other naval and special forces units were also drilled to participate. IDF Chief of Staff Gabi Ashkenazi announced that Israel may deploy snipers to minimize troop casualties on the next flotilla. The IDF also announced that attack dogs from Unit Oketz would be deployed before soldiers to neutralize threats. In June 2011, the IDF released a video showing naval forces practicing an interception of the flotilla. The footage showed the use of high-powered water cannons aimed at vessels simulating flotilla ships, along with other means.\n\nOn 19 June 2011, Eli Marom, Commander of the Israeli Navy, was quoted as calling the flotilla a \"hate flotilla\".\n\nIsraeli military sources told Israeli newspapers on 27 June 2011 that some radical elements among flotilla members intended to kill soldiers who tried to board their vessels, and had equipped themselves with bags of sulfur to throw at soldiers. Multiple newspapers reported the statements. Alex Fishman, dean of Israeli military correspondents, criticized these claims and said \"There isn't a shred of substance to the report that extremist elements will put up violent resistance to IDF soldiers aboard the flotilla. Neither is there any clear information regarding deadly weapons on any of the ships\". He said that it can be assumed that this is considered a possibility by defense forces, along with many other scenarios, but was improperly turned into a definitive fact. Anonymous Israeli cabinet members described this information as \"political spin\", saying that information concerning violent resistance had not been presented to them. However, Strategic Affairs Minister Moshe Ya'alon later said that reports from army sources that flotilla participants were planning lethal violence were accurate. Similarly, Israel's Prime Minister's Office replied that the materials issued by the IDF spokesman are based on reliable intelligence assessments.\n\nOn the same day, Israel's Government Press Office issued a letter to foreign journalists, warning them that participating in the upcoming flotilla sailing to Gaza could result in them being barred from Israel for up to 10 years. The letter was signed by GPO director Oren Helman. The decision was rescinded by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the following day, along with a statement that journalists would be invited onto Israeli naval vessels. The Foreign Press Association welcomed the reversal.\n\nOn 27 June Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman stated that flotilla participants are \"terror activists, seeking to create provocation and looking for blood\", and that Israel plans to \"deal with the flotilla properly\". He added that the majority of those who had planned to join the flotilla now understand that those who wish to help can do this through legal means.\n\nOn 28 June, a YouTube video of a man called \"Marc\" who claims to be an activist denied from boarding the flotilla on account of his homosexuality was exposed to be a hoax. The man in the video was discovered to be Omer Gershon, an Israeli entrepreneur and public relations expert. The video was tweeted by an intern in Prime Minister Netanyahu's office. The intern said he did not know that the video was a hoax, and that he posted the video on his own private Twitter account, not on behalf of the government.\n\n\n\nShurat HaDin, an NGO based in Israel, delayed or blocked several of the vessels by legal methods, including warning insurance companies that insuring the flotilla boats might leave the companies open to prosecution for aiding a terrorist organization. In addition, Shurat HaDin sent a letter warning Inmarsat, a satellite navigation company, that it could be open to legal charges for providing communications and navigation services to ships that are part of the flotilla.\n\nGisha, an Israeli not-for-profit organization whose stated goal is \"to protect the freedom of movement of Palestinians, especially Gaza residents,\" criticized the focus on humanitarian aid by flotilla organizers and the Israeli government. Sari B ashi, Executive Director of Gisha, said \"residents of Gaza are being deliberately reduced to recipients of humanitarian aid\" and that there is \"no shortage of food in Gaza, but economic recovery is blocked by sweeping restrictions on the movement of goods and people\".\n\nIsraeli-Arab journalist Khaled Abu Toameh, writing for the Gatestone Institute, noted that \"according to Palestinians living in the Gaza Strip, there is no shortage of basic foods\", and that \"periodic shortage of medical supplies is often attributed to the ongoing power struggle between Hamas and Fatah, whose representatives in the West Bank are sometimes accused of withholding medicine as a way of punishing the Hamas government.\" Abu Toameh questioned why, given this situation, the flotilla organizers did not plan to help Syrian and Libyan refugees, whose situation was worse, or to express solidarity with Saudi Arabian women who are being arrested for driving cars.\n\nCanada's \"National Post\" editorialized against the flotilla, calling it a \"charade\". It concluded that The real intention of the flotilla is to break the blockade and end Hamas' political isolation. There can be only one reason why anyone would consider such an outcome desirable: The absence of a blockade would allow the free passage of arms to the terror-embracing Hamas government, which has frequently demonstrated its goal of ending Israel's existence as a nation. Israel's blockade of Gaza is a direct consequence of attacks launched from within the territory. If flotilla participants really want to ease Gazans' isolation, they should encourage Hamas to acknowledge Israel's right to exist and to forswear terrorism.\n\"Pravda\" argued in favour of the flotilla, stating And so the world was forgetting Gaza. It forgot that the blockade was deemed illegal by the UN. They paid little attention to the complaints of people like Ilan Pappé, former professor of history at the University of Haifa, \"Israel uses genocidal policies in Gaza.\" The lack of UN action was left to pass blankly, whose commission investigating the massacre of Freedom Flotilla I was paralyzed (as though we do not know why). It is because of this forgetfulness that Freedom Flotilla 2 was ready to sail. Remember the tragedy in Gaza is far from over. The people there are still suffering a totally illegal and unjust blockade that has lasted five years. Humanity cannot continue allowing a city to be slowly strangled.\nBusinessmen from the Gaza Strip interviewed by \"Ynet\" said regarding the flotilla that the main problem was not importing goods into Gaza, as there was \"no shortage of stock\" in the territory, but the difficulty of exporting goods. However, they stressed that they were not opposed to the flotilla.\n\nAuthor Alice Walker announced that she will join the flotilla and published a letter in support of the Flotilla. The letter puts the flotilla in the context of the \"followers of Gandhi,\" and the \"Jewish civil rights activists\" who stood side by side with blacks in America's South. In the letter, she also rebukes Benjamin Netanyahu policies, and those in the US who back them. Fellow author Howard Jacobson criticized Walker saying that her concern for setting the children of Gaza over the children of Israel does not justify the flotilla, and that she gives no convincing reason for partaking.\n\nPhilip Missfelder, foreign policy spokesman of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and Christian Social Union (CSU) parties, the largest combined group of MPs in the German parliament, said on 5 July that the so-called Gaza flotilla activists \"endanger peace efforts\" and their action is \"part of the asymmetrical warfare against Israel.\" He added that their actions were \"not about humanitarian help, rather a confrontation with Israel\". He further stated that the activists were working against the goals of Germany and the Middle East Quartet. \"I welcome that the Greek authorities have decisively intervened as some activists set sail without permission,\" he said.\n\nHarvard University literature professor Ruth Wisse condemned the flotilla as a \"kill-the-Jews flotilla\", stating that its purpose was \"to discredit the Israeli attempt to protect itself and to give Hamas a free hand amassing weapons to use against Israeli civilians\".\n\nChristopher Hitchens condemned the flotilla for its cooperation with Hamas, noting Hamas' official and programmatic adoption of the antisemitic forgery \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", its expression of outrage at the death of Osama bin Laden, and its ties with Hezbollah, al-Qaeda and the regimes of Syria and Iran. He also criticized the media for \"soft-centred coverage\" of the affair, suggesting that pointed questions should have been asked of the flotilla participants and that the title \"activists\" was an inaccurate and gratuitously positive label for the participants.\n\nAccording to Paul Murphy, Member of the European Parliament (MEP) and longtime Freedom Flotilla supporter, \"The aim of the Flotilla is to break that siege by delivering vital medical supplies and construction material and to highlight the ongoing blockade and impact on the population.\"\n\nFour Nobel Peace Laureates, Mairead Maguire, Jody Williams, Shirin Ebadi, and Rigoberta Menchú Tum, wrote a letter to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon \"to urge you to use your good offices in support of the humanitarian needs of the people of Gaza...by appointing a representative to inspect and seal the cargo of the boats of the Freedom Flotilla II—thus assuring the Israeli government that the boats are carrying humanitarian supplies such as toys, medical supplies, cement and educational materials.\"\n\nOn 7 July 2011, MIT linguistics professor Noam Chomsky, wrote \"Today the U.S. and Israel are vigorously seeking to block the flotilla. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton virtually authorized violence, stating that 'Israelis have the right to defend themselves' if flotillas 'try to provoke action by entering into Israeli waters' – that is, the territorial waters of Gaza, as if Gaza belonged to Israel. Greece agreed to prevent the boats from leaving (that is, those boats not already sabotaged) – though, unlike Clinton, Greece referred rightly to 'the maritime area of Gaza.' In January 2009, Greece had distinguished itself by refusing to permit U.S. arms to be shipped to Israel from Greek ports during the vicious U.S.-Israeli assault in Gaza. No longer an independent country in its current financial duress, Greece evidently cannot risk such unusual integrity.\"\n\nGreek President Karolos Papoulias later visited Israel, where Israeli President Shimon Peres told him: \"I thank you very much for fulfilling the UN secretary general's guidelines and stopping the flotilla. Thank you for not allowing people interested in disturbing good order and international law from coming without supervision to Gaza, which is led by a terrorist group.\"\n\nJoshua Mitnick of the \"Christian Science Monitor\" reported that Greece's actions were the result of a growing relationship between Israel and Greece, including an offer of \"generous military assistance\", that started after Israeli–Turkish ties were damaged by the Gaza flotilla raid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14261786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14261786", "title": "Hector MacQueen", "text": "Hector MacQueen\n\nHector L. MacQueen, FBA, FRSE, (born 1956) is a Scottish academic, a senior scholar of Scots law and legal history, and member of the Scottish Law Commission. He is Professor of Private Law at the University of Edinburgh and a former Dean of its Faculty of Law. He is author, co-author and editor of a large number books on Scottish law and legal history, including the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th editions of the standard text \"Gloag & Henderson Law of Scotland\", and is former Literary Director of the Stair Society. Stetson University College of Law, Florida, appointed him Distinguished International Professor 2007-2009, and he taught European Copyright Law there. As an historian, he has a particular interest in the law and society of medieval Carrick and Galloway. He is currently a member of the International Advisory Group for the JKLH-funded project, 'The Paradox of Medieval Scotland, 1093-1286'. In 1995 he became a Fellow of The Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "169637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169637", "title": "Imperium", "text": "Imperium\n\nImperium is a Latin word that, in a broad sense, translates roughly as 'power to command'. In ancient Rome, different kinds of power or authority were distinguished by different terms. \"Imperium\" referred to the ability of an individual to command the military. It is not to be confused with \"auctoritas\" or \"potestas\", different and generally inferior types of power in the Roman Republic and Empire. Primarily used to refer to the power that is wielded, in greater or lesser degree, by an individual to whom it is delegated, the term could also be used with a geographical connotation, designating the territorial limits of that \"imperium\". Individuals given such power were referred to as curule magistrates or promagistrates. These included the curule aedile, the praetor, the consul, the magister equitum, and the dictator.\n\nIn ancient Rome, \"imperium\" could be used as a term indicating a characteristic of people, the wealth held in items, or the measure of formal power they had. This qualification could be used in a rather loose context (for example, poets used it, not necessarily writing about state officials). However, in Roman society it was also a more formal concept of legal authority. A man with \"imperium\" (\"imperator\") had, in principle, absolute authority to apply the law within the scope of his magistracy or promagistracy. He could be vetoed or overruled either by a magistrate or promagistrate who was a colleague with equal power (e.g. a fellow consul) or by one whose \"imperium\" outranked his - that is, one of \"imperium maius\" (greater \"imperium).\"\n\nSome modern scholars such as A.H.M. Jones have defined \"imperium\" as \"the power vested by the state in a person to do what he considers to be in the best interests of the state\".\n\n\"Imperium\" can be distinguished from \"regnum\", or royal power, which was inherited. \"Imperium\" was originally a military concept, the power of the \"imperator\" (general in the army) to command. The word derives from the Latin verb, \"imperare\" (to command). The title \"imperator\" was applied to the emperor, who was the commander of the armed forces. In fact, the Latin word, \"imperator\", gives us the English word \"emperor\".\n\n\"Imperium\" was indicated in two prominent ways. A \"curule\" magistrate or promagistrate carried an ivory baton surmounted by an eagle as his personal symbol of office (compare the field marshal's baton). Any such magistrate was also escorted by \"lictors\" bearing the \"fasces\" (traditional symbols of imperium and authority); when outside the \"pomerium\", axes were added to the \"fasces\" to indicate an imperial magistrate's power to enact capital punishment outside Rome (the axes were removed within the \"pomerium\"). The number of lictors in attendance upon a magistrate was an overt indication of the degree of \"imperium\". When in the field, a \"curule\" magistrate possessing an \"imperium\" greater or equal to that of a praetor wore a sash ritually knotted on the front of his cuirass. Further, any man executing \"imperium\" within his sphere of influence was entitled to the curule chair.\n\n\nAs can be seen, dictatorial \"imperium\" was superior to consular, consular to praetorian, and praetorian to aedilician; there is some historical dispute as to whether or not praetorian \"imperium\" was superior to \"equine-magisterial\" \"imperium\". A promagistrate, or a man executing a \"curule\" office without actually holding that office, also possessed \"imperium\" in the same degree as the actual incumbents (i.e., proconsular \"imperium\" being more or less equal to consular \"imperium\", propraetorian \"imperium\" to praetorian) and was attended by an equal number of \"lictors\".\n\nCertain extraordinary commissions, such as Pompey's famous command against the pirates, were invested with \"imperium maius\" meaning they outranked all other owners of imperium of the same type or rank (in Pompey's case, even the consuls) within their sphere of command (his being \"ultimate on the seas, and within 50 miles inland\"). \"Imperium maius\" later became a hallmark of the Roman emperor.\n\nAnother technical use of the term in Roman law was for the power to extend the law beyond its mere interpretation, extending \"imperium\" from formal legislators under the ever-republican constitution: popular assemblies, senate, magistrates, emperor and their delegates to the jurisprudence of jurisconsults.\n\nWhile the Byzantine Eastern Roman Emperors retained full Roman imperium and made the episcopate subservient, in the feudal West a long rivalry would oppose the claims to supremacy within post-Roman Christianity between \"sacerdotium\" in the person of the Pope and the secular \"imperium\" of the revived Western Roman Emperor since Charlemagne. Both would refer to the heritage of Roman law by their titular link with the very city Rome: the Pope, Bishop \"of Rome\", versus the Holy \"Roman\" Emperor (even though his seat of power was north of the Alps).\n\nThe Donatio Constantini, by which the Papacy had allegedly been granted the territorial Patrimonium Petri in Central Italy, became a weapon against the Emperor. The first pope who used it in an official act and relied upon it, Leo IX, cites the \"Donatio\" in a letter of 1054 to Michael Cærularius, Patriarch of Constantinople, to show that the Holy See possessed both an earthly and a heavenly \"imperium\", the royal priesthood. Thenceforth the \"Donatio\" acquires more importance and is more frequently used as evidence in the ecclesiastical and political conflicts between the papacy and the secular power: Anselm of Lucca and Cardinal Deusdedit inserted it in their collections of canons; Gratian excluded it from his \"Decretum\", but it was soon added to it as \"Palea\"; the ecclesiastical writers in defence of the papacy during the conflicts of the early part of the 12th century quoted it as authoritative.\n\nIn one bitter episode, Pope Gregory IX who had several times mediated between the Lombards and the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II reasserted his right to arbitrate between the contending parties. In the numerous manifestos of the Pope and the Emperor the antagonism between Church and State became more evident: the Pope claimed for himself the \"imperium animarum\" 'command of the souls' (i.e. voicing God's will to the faithful) and the \"principatus rerum et corporum in universo mundo\" 'princedom over all things and bodies in the whole world', while the Emperor wished to restore the \"imperium mundi\", imperium (as under Roman Law) over the (now Christian) world — Rome was again to be the capital of the world and Frederick was to become the real emperor of the Romans, so he energetically protested against the authority of the Pope. The emperor's successes, especially his victory over the Lombards at the battle of Cortenuova (1237), only embittered the opposition between Church and State. The pope again excommunicated the \"self-confessed heretic\", the \"blasphemous beast of the Apocalypse\" (20 March 1239) who now attempted to conquer the rest of Italy, i.e. the papal states, et cetera.\n\nIn some monotheistic religions such as Christianity (the Catholic Church where the official language, Latin, used terms as \"Imperium Dei/Domini\") the Divine is held to have a superior imperium, as ultimate King of Kings, above all earthly powers. Whenever a society accepts this Divine will to be expressed on earth, as by a religious authority, this can lead to theocratic legitimation. However, the Catholic Church and most other Christian groups acknowledge the authority of secular governments. If however a secular ruler controls the religious hierarchy, he can use it to legitimize his own authority.\n\nThus absolute, universal power was vested under early Islam in the original Caliphate (before it became the political toy of worldly powers 'behind the throne' and was even politically discarded by essentially secular princes), and later again claimed by Mahdis.\n\nThe chief minister of Henry VIII, the Archbishop of Canterbury Thomas Cranmer suggested removal of the Roman Catholic papacy's \"imperium in imperio\" (Latin for \"state within a state\") by requesting that Parliament pass the Act in Restraint of Appeals (1533) specifying that England was an empire and that The Crown was imperial, and a year later the Act of Supremacy proclaiming the Imperial Crown Protector and Supreme Head of the Church of England.\n\nIn Orthodox Russia too, when Peter I the Great assumed the Byzantine imperial titles \"Imperator\" and Autokrator, instead of the royal Tsar, the idea in founding the Russian Holy Synod was to put an end to the old \"Imperium in imperio\" of the free Church, by substituting the synod for the all too independent Patriarch of Moscow, which had become almost a rival of the Tsars — Peter meant to unite all authority in himself, over Church as well as State: through his Ober-Procurator and synod, the Emperor ruled his Church as absolutely as the military through their respective ministries; he appointed its members just as he did generals; and the Russian Government continued his policy until the end of the empire in 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "57202936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57202936", "title": "Kabaka crisis", "text": "Kabaka crisis\n\nThe Kabaka crisis was a political and constitutional crisis in the Uganda Protectorate between 1953 and 1955. The crisis would result in the Buganda Agreement of 1955 and ultimately shape the nature of Ugandan independence.\n\nIn 1893 the Imperial British East Africa Company (IBEAC) transferred its administration rights over its territories in modern day Uganda to the British Government. At that time, the IBEAC's territory consisted mainly of the Kingdom of Buganda, which had been acquired in 1892. In 1894 the Uganda Protectorate was established, and, with Bugandan assistance the territory was rapidly extended beyond the borders of Buganda to an area that roughly corresponds to that of present-day Uganda. The Buganda Agreement of 1900 formalised Buganda's place as a constitutional monarchy (headed by the Kabaka) within the broader Protectorate.\n\nOn 30 June 1953, Oliver Lyttelton, the Secretary of State for the Colonies, gave a speech in London in which he made a \"passing reference\" to the possibility \"...of still larger measures of unification and possibly still larger measures of federation of the whole East Africa territories\". Lyttelton's remarks were reported by the \"East African Standard\" on 2 and 3 July, prompting the Ministers of the Bugandan Government to write to the Governor of Uganda, Sir Andrew Cohen, on 6 July to stress their opposition to such a plan. The Baganda people, who always valued their autonomy and Independence were alarmed by the idea of a broader federation on the model of the Central African Federation. They felt that such a move would result in the integration of different cultures which would ultimately destroy and engulf their own culture and way of life.\n\nCohen responded by assuring the Baganda that there was no reason for concern, and that no decision pertaining to the formation of an East African federation would be made without first consulting them. There was a residual feeling in Buganda, however, that Lyttelton had let the cat out of the bag. The incident served to crystallise animosity and apparent slights dating back to the 1900 Agreement, and prompted widespread calls among the Baganda for Bugandan independence as the only protection against British overreach. Even a reply from the Secretary of State attempting to reassure the Kabaka Mutesa II that \"the inclusion of the Uganda Protectorate in any such federation is outside the realm of practical politics at the present time\" served only to fan the flames. The Bakamas of Bunyoro and Toro, and the Omugabe of Ankole, also wrote to Cohen to express their own fears.\n\nIn order to resolve the spiralling crisis, Cohen took a direct approach, choosing to meet Mutesa in person, but a series of six private meetings at Government House did not result in a resolution on the issue of Bugandan independence and the political unrest continued. Frustrated, Cohen told Mutesa that continuing to agitate against the British vision of a single Ugandan state constituted a breach of the 1900 Agreement, as well as a repudiation of the joint declaration of March 1953, and that he had five weeks to reconsider. \n\nDespite the apparent ultimatum, Mutesa, supported by the Bugandan Lukiiko (Parliament) and other neighbouring Kingdoms, continued pushing for Buganda secession. This intransigence prompted Cohen to write to him on 20 November 1953 to inform him that, under the provisions of Article 6 of the 1900 Agreement, the British Government was withdrawing their recognition of him as the legitimate ruler of Buganda. This position was confirmed on 30 November in the form of a written declaration.\n\nCohen was fearful that this action would incite violent protest by the Baganda and declared a state of emergency. Mutesa was arrested and rapidly exiled to London, much to the shock of the Baganda. He would be permitted to live freely, anywhere in the world, but not to return to Uganda. While his supporters lobbied strongly on his behalf, Mutesa himself behaved \"as if on vacation\", staying primarily at the Savoy Hotel.\n\nCohen's preference was for a new Kabaka to be installed immediately, but this proved impossible. Exiling the Kabaka, far from resolving the situation, fuelled it. Resistance in Buganda itself was nevertheless mostly peaceful, including public displays of \"weeping, mourning and collapsing in grief... Ganda, and especially Ganda women, declared loyalty to the king and denounced Britain's betrayal of its alliance with Buganda\". This emotional response, rooted in the centrality of the Kabaka to Bugandan life rather than the personal popularity of Mutesa, took Cohen by surprise and the British struggled to find a way to counter-act it. \n\nFollowing a well-received Bugandan delegation to London, new negotiations took place in June to September 1954 at Namirembe between Cohen and a constitutional committee selected by the Lukiiko, with Keith Hancock, then Director of the Institute of Commonwealth Studies in London, acting as the mediator. Although an attempt to get the Kabaka's deportation declared \"ultra vires\" was unsuccessful, the High Court in Kampala suggested that the use of Article 6 was improper. The British subsequently accepted the return of Mutesa, in exchange for a commitment that he and future Kabakas would make a \"solemn engagement\" to be bound the 1900 Agreement. A number of constitutional changes within the Government of Buganda and to the national Legislative Council were agreed at the same time, progressing Cohen's reformist goals. Following further negotiations, held in London, the Namirembe conference recommendations were adopted as the Buganda Agreement of 1955 and Mutesa returned triumphant to Buganda.\n\n"}
{"id": "24284612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284612", "title": "La Quadrature du Net", "text": "La Quadrature du Net\n\nLa Quadrature du Net (\"Squaring of the Net\" in French) is a French advocacy group that promotes digital rights and freedoms of citizens. It advocates for French and European legislation to respect the founding principles of the Internet, most notably the free circulation of knowledge. \"La Quadrature du Net\" engages in public-policy debates concerning, for instance, freedom of speech, copyright, regulation of telecommunications and online privacy.\n\nThe group was founded in 2008 by free software promoters and activists. It gained notoriety by fighting the HADOPI law, a controversial project to establish a graduated response in France. Its action against Internet censorship and Net neutrality led the \"Quadrature\" to work on subjects such as the LOPPSI law, the Telecoms Package or ACTA. In 2012 \"Quadrature\" spokesman and co-founder Jérémie Zimmermann received a Pioneer award for his action against ACTA.\n\nThe \"Quadrature\" is supported by other advocacy and free software groups, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Free Software Foundation.\n\nIn 2013, the collective re-organised from a de facto association to a formal (French law) association. This association was founded by 8 long-time participants or helpers of the initial collective.\n\nPhilippe Aigrain, author of two books on information commons, is one of the co-founders of the collective and the association.\nJérémie Zimmermann, also co-founder of both collective and association, is frequently invited to television programs and interviews, defending and raising awareness about the association's positions and opposition to the many projects they consider threaten fundamental liberties and the Internet (French HADOPI law, European Telecoms Package, ACTA, Net Neutrality, etc.\n\nThe name is based on the quadrature of the circle, an unsolvable mathematical problem.\n\nAccording to the collective, it is “impossible to effectively control the flow of information in the digital age by law and technology without harming public freedoms and damaging economic and social development”. The collective makes an analogy with the squaring of the circle as a problem that could take ages for people to realize is impossible to solve, as initially intended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29535826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29535826", "title": "Leung TC William Roy v Secretary for Justice", "text": "Leung TC William Roy v Secretary for Justice\n\nLeung TC William Roy v Secretary for Justice ( ) is a leading Hong Kong High Court judicial review case on the equal protection on sexual orientation and the law of standing in Hong Kong. Particularly, the Court sets up a precedent case prohibiting unjustified differential treatments based upon one's sexual orientation.\n\nPrior to this case, the age of consent for homosexual men was 21 but not for heterosexual or lesbian couples, which was 16. Any gay man engaging in buggery with another man under 21 could be sentenced to life imprisonment, based on the provisions contained in the \"Crimes Ordinance\". In 2004, Mr Leung, the applicant, a 20-year-old gay man, applied for leave for judicial review without being arrested or prosecuted. In his application, Mr Leung complained that the \"Crimes Ordinance\" discriminated against him based upon his sexual orientation and interfered with his private life by forbidding him to give physical expression to other gay men and, thus, making him unable to develop long-lasting relationships. The consequences were low self-esteem, loneliness, and sense of marginalisation. \n\nDuring the proceedings, Mr Leung challenged four provisions in the \"Crimes Ordinance\" infringing his constitutional rights to equality and privacy. After hearing the oral argument in July 2005, the Court of First Instance of the High Court handed down the judgment a month later. Mr Justice Hartmann ruled in favour of the applicant and struck down all four sections of the \"Crime Ordinance\" violating the guaranteed legal protections for equality and privacy.\n\nImmediately afterwards, the local religious groups gasped and condemned the result and demanded the Government to appeal. In September 2005, the Government declared its plan to appeal. The hearings for appeal took place in July of the following year. On 20 September 2006, the Court of Appeal delivered its judgment and unanimously dismissed the case. The Government accepted the reasoning of the Court and did not appeal further.\n\nIn his application for judicial review, Mr Leung challenged Section 118C, 118F(2)(a), 118H and 118J(2)(a) of the \"Crimes Ordinance\" undermining his protected rights to equality and privacy under Articles 25 and 39 of the \"Basic Law\" and Articles 1, 14, and 22 of the \"Bill of Rights\".\n\nIn this case, 5 major issues were identified and discussed by the High Court:\n\nYes\n\nThe Government argued that the case was academic or hypothetical in its nature because the applicant had not been arrested or prosecuted. It had always been the doctrine of the courts not to hear such cases. Thus, the courts did not have the jurisdiction to hear the applicant’s case.\n\nThe courts in Hong Kong did indeed have the jurisdiction to hear ‘academic’ cases, though the courts would normally dismiss such cases and demand the applicant to show some forms of harms or inabilities as a result of the Government’s judgements, decisions, or actions. At the end of the day, the Court has the discretion to determine whether or not hear such cases. The reasons for the courts avoiding hearing academic cases were that it would be very dangerous for courts to make decisions on important legal principles without a full set of facts. When exceptional cases arose, the courts should carefully exercise the discretion to hear such cases and follow the instructions provided in Section 21K(2) of the \"High Court Ordinance\": \nMoreover, the Court expressed that individuals should never be asked to break the law in order to initiate a legal proceeding for the purpose of protecting their fundamental rights. In fact, it would be contradictory to the spirit of Article 35(1) of the Basic Law, which states: \n\nYes\nThe Government argued that the applicant of the case was not being arrested or prosecuted; thus, he lacked the sufficient interest and standing to bring a case before the court. And even though the applicant would have been considered to have the standing by the Court, the 3-month time limit required by the law for application for judicial review had passed long ago. \nThe Court of Appeal emphasised that the case involved the expression of love and intimacy by gay men towards one another; the case was therefore ‘about the status, moral citizenship and sense of self-worth of a significant section of the community.’ The Court then ruled that the applicant had sufficient interest to initiate the case because the Court was dealing with the issue which would have great impact on ‘the dignity of a section of society in a significant way.’\n\nThinking along the same lines as Judge Hartmann, the Court of Appeal concluded that the 3-month time limit would be relevant but not a compelling factor in this particular case. Quoting Judge Hartmann’s comments, the Court of Appeal stated,\n\nYes\nThe Government conceded up front that Section 118F(2)(a), 118H, and 118J(2)(a) were indeed unconstitutional in ways of infringing the applicant’s rights to equality and privacy; however, Section 118C should still be valid because Section 118D, similar to Section 118C, equally applied onto and prohibited heterosexuals from engaging buggery under 21. \nThe Court agreed and accepted the Government’s concession. The Court then moved to analyse Issue 4. \n\nYes\nThe Government argued that buggery should not be seen or recognised in the same way as sexual intercourse; and thus, the Court should not compare Section 118C, forbidding gay men from engaging buggery under 21, with the law forbidding heterosexual couples having sex under 16. Also, the Government believed the Court should hold Section 118C valid under the Basic Law because Section 118D, similar to Section 118C, equally applied onto and prohibited heterosexuals from engaging buggery under 21:\n\nCiting \"Sutherland v UK\" and through reading of the text of the Crimes Ordinance, buggery is recognised to be a form of sex both in common law and in the Crimes Ordinance. Furthermore, the Court explicitly stated that sex was not only for procreation but also for expressing love and intimacy; buggery, for gay men, fit well into those definitions. Therefore, the Court could compare buggery and sex equally.\n\nThe Court and the Government agreed and treated ‘sexual orientation’ as a status or classification. Thus, Article 1 and 22 of the Bill of Rights and Article 25 and 39 of the Basic Law would scrutinise and forbid any unjustified discrimination based on one’s sexual orientation. Agreeing with Judge Hartmann, the Court of Appeal quoted his judgement, \n\nDepends; but for this particular case, no.\nThe Government argued that whenever there would be constitutional challenges on primary legislation, the courts should follow the margin of appreciation doctrine and let the Legislative Council handle the matters. By pushing this argument forwards, the Government implied that the Legislative Council was in a better place to decide what was good or bad for the society; and thus, if the society believed that buggery under 21 for gay men should be condemned in order to fulfil the society's needs, then the courts should leave the matter for the Legislative Council to deal with. \nIn theory, the courts should always been impartial and independent from any interference. Judges were not elected through election, but the members of the Legislative Council were. Thus, the Legislative Council would be in a better position than the courts to determine what the society would need. The courts should recognise and appreciate that fact. Therefore, the courts should let the legislature deal with public policy. And this would be the margin of appreciation doctrine.\n\nNonetheless, the margin of appreciation given to the legislative should not be unlimited. If there would be a clear infringement of rights based upon race, sex, or sexual orientation, the courts shall scrutinise the proposed justification with intensity. The courts were obligated to invalidate unconstitutional laws. Following the margin of appreciation doctrine, the courts should also always bear in mind of their roles to protect minorities from the excesses of the majority. Thus, courts should be provided evidence of acceptable justification for any infringement on fundamental rights. In this case, the Court was not persuaded there had been any acceptable justification for the infringement of the applicant’s rights.\nIn conclusion, the Court of First Instance made the following declarations and the Court of Appeal upheld that decision: \nHong Kong Bill of Rights Ordinance\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1161559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1161559", "title": "Liberal Catholicism", "text": "Liberal Catholicism\n\nLiberal Catholicism was a current of thought within the Catholic Church. It was influential in the 19th century and the first half of the 20th, especially in France.\n\nBeing predominantly political in nature, liberal Catholicism was distinct from the contemporary theological movement of modernism. It is also distinct from both the attitude of Catholics who are described as theologically \"progressive\" or \"liberal\".\n\nLiberal Catholicism has been defined as \"in essence a trend among sincere Catholics to exalt freedom as a primary value and to draw from this consequences in social, political, and religious life, seeking to reconcile the principles on which Christian France was founded with those that derived from the French Revolution\".\n\nThe movement of liberal Catholicism was initiated in France by Hugues Felicité Robert de Lamennais with the support of Jean-Baptiste Henri Lacordaire, Charles Forbes René de Montalembert and Olympe-Philippe Gerbet, Bishop of Perpignan, while a parallel movement arose in Belgium, led by François Antoine Marie Constantin de Méan et de Beaurieux, Archbishop of Mechelen, and his vicar general Engelbert Sterckx.\n\nLamennais founded the newspaper \"L'Ami de l'Ordre\" (precursor of today's \"L'Avenir\"), the first issue of which appeared on 16 October 1830, with the motto \"God and Liberty\". The paper was aggressively democratic, demanding rights of local administration, an enlarged suffrage, separation of church and state, universal freedom of conscience, freedom of education, freedom of assembly, and freedom of the press. Styles of worship were to be criticized, improved or abolished in absolute submission to the spiritual, not to the temporal authority.\n\nOn 7 December 1830, the editors articulated their demands as follows:\nWith the help of Montalembert, Lammenais founded the \"\", which became a far-reaching organization with agents throughout France who monitored violations of religious freedom. As a result, the periodical's career was stormy and its circulation opposed by conservative bishops. In response, Lamennais, Montalembert and Lacordaire suspended their work and in November 1831 set out to Rome to obtain the approval of Pope Gregory XVI. They were received in audience, but after they had left Rome, the 1832 encyclical \"Mirari vos\" condemned religious pluralism in general and certain of Lamennais's ideas advanced in \"L'Avenir\" without mentioning his name. After this, Lamennais and his two lieutenants declared that out of deference to the pope they would not resume the publication of \"L'Avenir\" and dissolved the \"Agence générale\" as well. Lamennais soon distanced himself from the Catholic Church, which was a blow to the credibility of the liberal Catholic movement, and the other two moderated their tone, but still campaigned for liberty of religious education and liberty of association.\n\nThe National Congress of Belgium, an alliance between Catholics and secular liberals on the basis of mutually recognized rights and freedoms, adopted in 1831 a constitution that enshrined several of the freedoms for which liberal Catholicism campaigned. The Congress Column in Brussels, erected in honour of the congress, has at its base four bronze statues that represent the four basic freedoms enshrined in the constitution: freedom of religion, freedom of association, education and freedom of the press. These four freedoms are also reflected in the names of the four streets that lead to the \"Place de la Liberté/Vrijheidsplein\" (Freedom Square) of Brussels: the \"Rue des Cultes/Eredienststraat\" (Religion Street), the \"Rue de l'Association/Verenigingsstraat\" (Association Street), the \"Rue de l'Enseignement/Onderrichtstraat\" (Education Street) and the \"Rue de la Presse/Drukpersstraat\" (Press Street). The constitution adopted almost all of Lamennais's proposals for the separation of church and state, granting the Catholic Church independence in church appointments and public activities, and almost complete supervision of Catholic education.\n\nIn 19th-century Italy, the liberal Catholic movement had a lasting impact in that it ended the association of the ideal of national independence with that of anti-clerical revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "12741271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12741271", "title": "License compatibility", "text": "License compatibility\n\nLicense compatibility is a legal framework that allows for pieces of software with different software licenses to be distributed together. The need for such a framework arises because the different licenses can contain contradictory requirements, rendering it impossible to legally combine source code from separately-licensed software in order to create and publish a new program.\n\nLicense compatibility can be defined around the concepts of \"collective/combined/aggregated work\" and \"derivative work\". The first \"collective work\" license compatibility definition allows the usage of variously-licensed works in a combined context: \n\nA stronger definition includes the capability to change the license. The most prominent example is the copyleft license's demand that the \"derived work\" combined from code under various licenses as whole is applied to the copyleft license.\n\nA \"combined work\" consists of multiple differently-licensed parts (avoiding relicensing). To achieve a combined work including copyleft licensed components (which have a viral property leading potentially to a \"derived work\"), proper isolation/separation needs to be maintained.\n\nWith individually licensed source code files, multiple non-reciprocal licenses (such as permissive licenses or own proprietary code) can be separated, while the combined compiled program could be re-licensed (but that is not required). Such source-code file separation is too weak for copyleft/reciprocal licenses (such as the GPL), as they then require the complete work to be re-licensed under the reciprocal license as being derivative.\n\nA slightly stronger approach is to have separation at the linking stage with binary object code (static linking), where all the components of the resulting program are part of the same process and address space. This satisfies \"weak copyleft/standard reciprocal\" combined works (such as LGPL licensed ones), but not \"strong copyleft/strong reciprocal\" combined works. While it is commonly accepted that linking (static and even dynamic linking) constitutes a derivative of a strong copyleft'd work, there are alternate interpretations.\n\nFor combined works with \"strong copyleft\" modules, a stronger isolation is required. This can be achieved by separating the programs by an own process and allowing communication only via binary ABIs or other indirect means. Examples are Android's kernel space-to-user space separation via Bionic, or Linux distros which have proprietary binary blobs included despite having a strong copyleft kernel.\n\nWhile for some domains agreement exists if an isolation is suitable, there are domains in dispute and up to now untested in court. For instance, in 2015 the SFC sued VMware in an ongoing dispute whether loadable kernel modules (LKM's) are derivative works of the GPL'd Linux kernel or not.\n\nLicenses common to free and open-source software (FOSS) are not necessarily compatible with each other, and this can make it legally impossible to mix (or link) open-source code if the components have different licenses. For example, software that combined code released under version 1.1 of the Mozilla Public License (MPL) with code under the GNU General Public License (GPL) could not be distributed without violating one of the terms of the licenses; this despite both licenses being approved by both the Open Source Initiative and the Free Software Foundation.\n\nLicense compatibility between a copyleft license and another license is often only a one-way compatibility, making the copyleft license (GPL, and most other copyleft licenses) incompatible with proprietary commercial licenses, as well as with many non-proprietary licenses. This \"one-way compatibility\" characteristic has been criticized by the Apache Foundation, which licenses under the more permissive Apache license, such non-copyleft licenses being often less complicated and making for better license compatibility.\n\nAn example of a license that has excellent compatibility with other FOSS licenses is the Artistic License 2.0, due to its re-licensing clause which allows redistribution of the source code under any other FOSS license.\n\nThe Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL)—a weak copyleft license in-between the GPL license and BSD/MIT permissive licenses—tries to address license compatibility problems by permitting, without re-licensing, the mixing of CDDL-licensed source-code files with source-code files under other licenses by providing that the resulting binary can be licensed and sold under a different license as long as the source code is still available under CDDL.\n\nTo minimize license proliferation and license incompatibilities in the FOSS ecosystem, some organizations (the Free Software Foundation, for instance) and individuals (David A. Wheeler), argue that compatibility with the widely used GPL is an important feature of software licenses. Many of the most common free-software licenses, especially the permissive licenses, such as the original MIT/X license, BSD licenses (in the three-clause and two-clause forms, though not the original four-clause form), MPL 2.0, and LGPL, are \"GPL-compatible\". That is, their code can be combined with a program under the GPL without conflict, and the new combination would have the GPL applied to the whole (but the other license would not so apply).\n\nCopyleft software licenses are not inherently GPL-compatible; even the GPLv2 license by itself is not compatible with GPLv3 or LGPLv3. If you tried to combine code released under either of the later GPL licenses with GPLv2 code, you would violate section 6 of GPLv2, the source of the incompatibility. However, code under the later licenses can be combined with code licensed under GPL version 2 or later. Most software released under GPLv2 allow you to use the terms of later versions of the GPL as well, and some have exception clauses that allow combining them with software that is under different licenses or license versions. The Linux kernel is a notable exception that is distributed exclusively under the terms of GPLv2.\n\nThe Free Software Foundation-recommended GNU Free Documentation License is incompatible with the GPL license, and text licensed under the GFDL cannot be incorporated into GPL software. Therefore, the Debian project decided, in a 2006 resolution, to license documentation under the GPL. The FLOSS Manuals foundation followed Debian in 2007. In 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation switched from the GFDL to a Creative Commons CC-BY-SA license as the main license for their projects.\n\nAnother case where GPL compatibility is problematic is the CDDL licensed ZFS file system with the GPLv2 licensed Linux kernel. Despite that both are free software under a copyleft license, ZFS is not distributed with most linux distros like Debian (but is distributed with FreeBSD) as the CDDL is considered incompatible with the GPL'ed Linux kernel, by the Free Software Foundation and some parties with relations with the FSF. The legal interpretation—of if and when this combination constitutes a combined work or derivative work of the GPLed kernel—is ambiguous and controversial. In 2015, the CDDL to GPL compatibility question reemerged when the linux distribution Ubuntu announced that it would include OpenZFS by default. In 2016, Ubuntu announced that a legal review resulted in the conclusion that it is legally safe to use ZFS as a binary kernel module in Linux. Others accepted Ubuntu's conclusion; for instance lawyer James E.J. Bottomley argued \"a convincing theory of harm\" cannot be developed, making it impossible to bring the case to court. Eben Moglen, co-author of the GPLv3 and founder of the SFLC, argued that while the letters of the GPL might be violated the spirit of both licenses is adhered to, which would be the relevant issue in court. On the other hand, Bradley M. Kuhn and Karen M. Sandler, from the Software Freedom Conservancy, argued that Ubuntu would violate both licenses, as a binary ZFS module would be a derivative work of the Linux kernel, and announced their intent to achieve clarity in this question, even by going to court.\n\nOn October 8, 2015, Creative Commons concluded that the CC BY-SA 4.0 is inbound compatible with the GPLv3.\n\nThe Creative Commons Licenses are widely used for content, but not all combinations of the seven recommended and supported licenses are compatible with each other. Additionally, this is often only a one-way directional compatibility, requiring a complete work to be licensed under the most restrictive license of the parent works.\n\nJSON developer Douglas Crockford, inspired by the words of then President Bush, formulated the \"evil-doers\" JSON license (\"The Software shall be used for Good, not Evil.\") in order to open-source the JSON libraries but also to force (troll) corporate lawyers (or those who are overly pedantic) to pay for a license from the state. The subjective and moral license clause led to license incompatibility problems with other open source licenses, and resulted in the JSON license not being a free and open-source license.\n\nSometimes projects wind up with incompatible licenses, and the only feasible way to solve it is the re-licensing of the incompatible parts. Re-licensing is achieved by contacting all involved developers and other parties and getting their agreement for the changed license. While in the free and open-source domain achieving 100% agreement is often impossible, due to the many contributors involved, the Mozilla re-licensing project assumes that achieving 95% is enough for the re-licensing of the complete code base. Others in the FOSS domain, such as Eric S. Raymond, came to different conclusions regarding the requirements for re-licensing of an entire code base.\n\nAn early example of a project that successfully re-licensed for license incompatibility reasons is the Mozilla project and their Firefox browser. The source code of Netscape's Communicator 4.0 browser was originally released in 1998 under the Netscape Public License/Mozilla Public License but was criticised by the Free Software Foundation (FSF) and OSI for being incompatible with the GNU General Public License (GPL). Around 2001 Time Warner, exercising its rights under the Netscape Public License, and at the request of the Mozilla Foundation, re-licensed all code in Mozilla that was under the Netscape Public License (including code by other contributors) to an MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1 tri-license, thus achieving GPL-compatibility.\n\nThe Vorbis library was originally licensed as LGPL, but in 2001, with the endorsement of Richard Stallman, the license was changed to the less restrictive BSD license, to accelerate the library's adoption.\n\nThe VLC project has a complicated license history due to license incompatibility, and in 2007 the project decided, for license compatibility, to not upgrade to the just released GPLv3. In October 2011, after the VLC had been removed from the Apple App Store at the start of 2011, the VLC project re-licensed the VLC library, from the GPLv2 to the LGPLv2, to achieve better compatibility. In July 2013, the software re-licensed under the Mozilla Public License, the VLC application would then be resubmitted to the iOS App Store.\n\nThe Free Software Foundation's GNU Free Documentation License version 1.2 is not compatible with the widely used Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license, which was a problem for Wikipedia, for instance. Therefore, at the request of the Wikimedia Foundation, the FSF added a time-limited section, to version 1.3 of the GFDL, that allowed specific types of websites using the GFDL to additionally offer their work under the CC BY-SA license. Following this, in June 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation migrated their projects (Wikipedia, etc.) by dual licensing to the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike as its main license, in addition to the previously used GFDL, so as to have improved license compatibility with the greater free content ecosystem.\n\nAnother interesting case was Google's re-licensing of GPLv2-licensed Linux kernel header files to the BSD license for their Android library Bionic. Google claimed that the header files were clean of any copyright-able work, reducing them to non-copyrightable \"facts\", and thus not covered by the GPL. This interpretation was challenged by Raymond Nimmer, a law professor at the University of Houston Law Center.\n\nIn 2014, the FreeCAD project changed their license from GPL to LGPLv2, due to GPLv3/GPLv2 incompatibilities. Also in 2014, Gang Garrison 2 was re-licensed from GPLv3 to MPL for improved library compatibility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22398652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22398652", "title": "List of Copyright Acts", "text": "List of Copyright Acts\n\nThis is a list of copyright Acts, which are laws enacting the copyright.\n\n\n\nSee: Argentinian copyright law\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: Chilean copyright law\n\n\n\n\nSee: Egyptian copyright law\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: Greek copyright law\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: Copyright law of Malaysia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also: Copyright in Russia, Russian copyright law, International copyright relations of Russia, Copyright law of the Soviet Union\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: Thai copyright law\n\n\n\nThe Copyright Acts 1734 to 1888 was the collective title of the following Acts:\n\nSee also: The International Copyright Acts\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49736031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49736031", "title": "List of Michigan ballot measures", "text": "List of Michigan ballot measures\n\nThe following is a list of statewide initiatives and referenda modifying state law and proposing state constitutional amendments in Michigan, sorted by election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30923647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30923647", "title": "Massacre", "text": "Massacre\n\nA massacre is a killing, typically of multiple victims, considered morally unacceptable, especially when \nperpetrated by a group of political actors against defenseless victims.\nThe word is a loan of a French term for \"butchery\" or \"carnage\".\n\nThere is no objective definition of what constitutes a \"massacre\". Various international organisations have proposed a formal definition of the term \"crimes against humanity\", which would however include incidents of persecution or abuse that do not result in deaths.\nConversely, a \"massacre\" is not necessarily a \"crime against humanity\".\nOther terms with overlapping scope include war crime, pogrom, mass killing, mass murder, and extrajudicial killing.\n\nThe modern definition of \"massacre\" as \"indiscriminate slaughter, carnage\", and the subsequent verb of this form, derive from late 16th century Middle French, evolved from Middle French \"macacre, macecle\" meaning \"slaughterhouse, butchery\". Further origins are dubious, though may be related to Latin \"macellum\" \"provisions store, butcher shop\".\n\nThe Middle French word \"macecre\" \"butchery, carnage\" is first recorded in the late 11th century. Its primary use remained the context of animal slaughter (in hunting terminology referring to the head of a stag) well into the 18th century.\nThe use of \"macecre\" \"butchery\" of the mass killing of people dates to the 12th century, implying people being \"slaughtered like animals\".\nThe term did not necessarily imply a large number of victims, e.g. Fénelon in \"Dialogue des Morts\" (1712) uses \"l'horride massacre de Blois\" (\"the horrid \"massacre\" at [the chateau of] Blois\") of the assassination of Henry I, Duke of Guise (1588), while \nBoileau, \"Satires XI\" (1698) has \"L'Europe fut un champ de massacre et d'horreur\" \"Europe was a field of \"massacre\" and horror\" of the European wars of religion.\n\nThe French word is loaned into English in the 1580s, specifically in the sense \"indiscriminate slaughter of a large number of people\".\nIt is used in reference to St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in \"The Massacre at Paris\" by Christopher Marlow. The term is again used in 1695 for the Sicilian Vespers of 1281, called \"that famous Massacre of the French in Sicily\" in the English translation of \"De quattuor monarchiis\" by Johannes Sleidanus (1556),\n\ntranslating \"illa memorabilis Gallorum clades per Siciliam\", i.e. \"massacre\" is here used as the translation of Latin \"clades\" \"hammering, breaking; destruction\".\nThe term's use in historiography was popularized by Gibbon's \"History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1781–1789), who used e.g. \"massacre of the Latins\" of the killing of Roman Catholics in Constantinople in 1182.\n\nAn early use in the propagandistic portrayal of current events was the \"Boston Massacre\" of 1770, which was employed to build support for the American Revolution. A pamphlet with the title \"A short narrative of the horrid massacre in Boston, perpetrated in the evening of the fifth day of March, 1770, by soldiers of the 29th regiment\" was printed in Boston still in 1770.\n\nThe term \"massacre\" began to see inflationary use in journalism first half of the 20th century. By the 1970s, it could also be used purely metaphorically, \nof events that do not involve deaths, such as the Saturday Night Massacre—the dismissals and resignations of political appointees during Richard Nixon's Watergate scandal.\n\nThe term \"massacre\", being a synonym of \"butchery, carnage\", is by nature hyperbolic or subjective, primarily used in partisan descriptions of events. \nThere is no neutral definition of what constitutes a \"massacre\" although some authors using the term may lay down general \"working definitions\" of what they mean by the term. \n\nThus, Robert Melson (1982) in the context of the \"Hamidian massacres\" used a \"basic working definition\" of \"by massacre we shall mean the intentional killing by political actors of a significant number of relatively defenseless people... the motives for massacre need not be rational in order for the killings to be intentional... Mass killings can be carried out for various reasons, including a response to false rumors... political massacre... should be distinguished from criminal or pathological mass killings... as political bodies we of course include the state and its agencies, but also nonstate actors...\"\n\nSimilarly, Levene (1999) attempts an objective classification of \"massacres\" throughout history, taking the term to refer to killings carried out by groups using overwhelming force against defenseless victims. He is excepting certain cases of mass executions, requiring that massacres must have the quality of being morally unacceptable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "650623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650623", "title": "MaxiCode", "text": "MaxiCode\n\nMaxiCode is a public domain, machine-readable symbol system originally created and used by United Parcel Service. Suitable for tracking and managing the shipment of packages, it resembles a barcode, but uses dots arranged in a hexagonal grid instead of bars. MaxiCode has been standardised under ISO/IEC 16023.\n\nA MaxiCode symbol (internally called \"Bird's Eye\", \"Target\", \"dense code\", or \"UPS code\") appears as a 1 inch square, with a bullseye in the middle, surrounded by a pattern of hexagonal dots. It can store about 93 characters of information, and up to 8 MaxiCode symbols can be chained together to convey more data. The centered symmetrical bullseye is useful in automatic symbol location regardless of orientation, and it allows MaxiCode symbols to be scanned even on a package traveling rapidly.\n\nMaxiCode symbology was released by UPS in 1992.\n\nMaxiCode symbols using modes 2 and 3 include a \"Structured Carrier Message\" containing key information about a package. This information is protected with a strong Reed-Solomon error correction code, allowing it to be read even if a portion of the symbol is damaged. These fields include:\n\n\nThe structured portion of the message is stored in the inner area of the symbol, near the bull's-eye pattern. (In modes that do not include a structured portion, the inner area simply stores the beginning of the message.)\n\nIrrespective of mode, a variable amount of application-specific information can be encoded in a MaxiCode symbol. This format of this additional data is not strictly defined, and amongst other information may include:\n\n\n\nUPS labels use Mode 2 or Mode 3 MaxiCodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "23438706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23438706", "title": "McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting", "text": "McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting\n\nMcDonnell Douglas burden-shifting or the McDonnell-Douglas burden-shifting framework refers to the procedure for adjudicating a motion for summary judgement under a Title VII disparate treatment claim, in particular a \"private, non-class action challenging employment discrimination\", that lacks direct evidence of discrimination. It was introduced by the United States Supreme Court in \"McDonnell Douglas v. Green\" and \"Texas Dept. of Community Affairs v. Burdine\" and has been elaborated on in subsequent cases.\n\nThe McDonnell-Douglas framework is typically used when a case lacks direct evidence of discrimination. In other cases, courts may decide not to use the McDonnell-Douglas framework, and instead evaluate disparate treatment claims under the \"Price Waterhouse\" \"mixed motive\" framework.\n\nThe framework as currently applied by courts is as follows:\n\n\nEven though the employer bears the burden of production in the second step, the plaintiff bears the burden of persuasion at all times.\n\nIn \"St. Mary's Honor Center v. Hicks\", the court revisited the third step in the framework. Initially explaining that affected employee should merely \"be afforded a fair opportunity to show that petitioner's stated reason for respondent's rejection was in fact, pretext[,]\" the court revised its initial guidance and added that the employee must also show that the employer's actions were in fact motivated by discrimination.\n\nThen, in \"Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc.\", the Court emphasized that \"a plaintiff’s prima facie case of age discrimination, combined with sufficient evidence to find that the employer’s asserted justification for its action was false, may permit the trier of fact to conclude that the employer unlawfully discriminated,\" and that the plaintiff need not always introduce additional and independent evidence of discrimination.\n\nIn his majority opinion in \"McDonnell Douglas\", Justice Powell also outlined the requirements for the first burden placed on plaintiffs in Title VII trials, i.e., the initial \"prima facie\" showing of discrimination. The plaintiff in such a case must show\n\n"}
{"id": "14686654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14686654", "title": "Mewburn Ellis", "text": "Mewburn Ellis\n\nMewburn Ellis LLP is one of Europe's leading intellectual property firms. It is one of the UK's largest firms of Chartered Patent Attorneys, European Patent Attorneys, European Trade Mark Attorneys and European Design Attorneys, with offices in London, Bristol, Manchester, Cambridge and Munich.\n\nIt has around 60 qualified patent and trade mark attorneys, including 40 partners.\n\nThe firm’s main practice areas include chemistry, electronics, computing, telecommunications, mechanical engineering and trade marks as well as a large biotechnology and pharmaceutical practice. The firm also undertakes work in areas such as nanotechnology, medical technology, agricultural science and transport.\n\nMewburn Ellis LLP is ranked as first tier in the Legal 500 directory for patent practice and is featured in the Chambers directory.\n\nThe firm of Mewburn Ellis LLP has its roots in the partnership of John Clayton Mewburn and George Beloe Ellis which was formed in the 1860s under the name of Mewburn Ellis & Co. John Mewburn Clayton was a signatory of the Royal Charter granted to the Chartered Institute of Patent Attorneys in 1891. Since that time, six members of the Ellis family have been partners in the firm, including George Ellis's daughter, Margaret Dixon, who was the first woman to practise as a UK patent agent. The last of the Ellis family to work in the firm retired in 1988, although the firm still bears the name of the founding partners.\n\n\nPatent attorneys from Mewburn Ellis have featured in or written various news articles about the patent attorney profession and IP issues, including in national newspapers such as The Independent and The Times as well as in scientific journals.\n\n'MewsNews' is Mewburn Ellis's regular IP newsletter.\n"}
{"id": "1553296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1553296", "title": "New Freedom Commission on Mental Health", "text": "New Freedom Commission on Mental Health\n\nThe New Freedom Commission on Mental Health was established by U.S. President George W. Bush through on April 29, 2002 to conduct a comprehensive study of the U.S. mental health service delivery system and make recommendations based on its findings. The commission has been touted as part of his commitment to eliminate inequality for Americans with disabilities.\n\nThe President directed the Commission to identify policies that could be implemented by Federal, State and local governments to maximize the utility of existing resources, improve coordination of treatments and services, and promote successful community integration for adults with a serious mental illness and children with a serious emotional disturbance. The commission, using the Texas Medication Algorithm Project (TMAP) as a blueprint, subsequently recommended screening of American adults for possible mental illnesses, and children for emotional disturbances, thereby identifying those with suspected disabilities who could then be provided with support services and state-of-the-art treatment, often in the form of newer psychoactive drugs that entered the market in recent years.\n\nA broad-based coalition of mental health consumers, families, providers, and advocates has supported the Commission process and recommendations, using the Commission's findings as a launching point for recommending widespread reform of the nation's mental health system.\n\nA coalition of opponents questioned the motives of the commission, based on the results from a similar 1995 Texas mandate while Bush was Governor. During the Texas Medication Algorithm Project mandate, psychotropic medication was wrongfully prescribed to the general public. Specifically, TMAP and drug manufacturers marketed 'atypical antipsychotic drugs', such as Seroquel, Zyprexa, and others, for a wide variety of non-psychotic behavior issues. These drugs were later found to cause increased rates of sudden death in patients. \n\nIn addition to atypical antipsychotic drugs, earlier versions of psychotropic medications, including Prozac, were found to sharply increase rates of suicide, especially during the first month of drug use. Also during TMAP, psychotropic medication was wrongfully prescribed to people not suffering from mental illness, including troublesome children and difficult elderly people in nursing homes. In 2009, Eli Lilly was found quilty of wrongfully marketing Zyprexa for non-psychotic people.\n\nOpponents also assert the New Freedom initiative campaign is a thinly veiled proxy for the pharmaceutical industry to foster psychotropic medication on mentally healthy individuals in its pursuit of profits. Opponents also contend that the initiative's wider objectives are to foster chemical behavior control of American citizens, contrary to civil liberties and to basic human rights. \n\nThe commission issued an interim report on November 1, 2002. Findings in the report included estimated prevalence of severe mental illness among adults and severe emotional disturbance in children, the existence of effective treatments, and barriers to care.\n\nOn July 22, 2003, the President's commission returned a report containing nineteen formal recommendations, organized under six proposed national goals for mental health. The commission emphasised recovery from mental illness, calls for consumer and family-centered care, and recommendations that states develop a more comprehensive approach to mental health.\n\nThe commission reported that \"despite their prevalence, mental disorders often go undiagnosed,\" so it recommended comprehensive mental health screening for \"consumers of all ages,\" including preschool children, because \"each year, young children are expelled from preschools and childcare facilities for severely disruptive behaviors and emotional disorders.\"\n\nIn contradiction, the Congressional Research Service, stated the commission did not specifically recommend a nationwide screening program for mental illness, while it did discuss the need to identify mental illness in certain settings (juvenile detention facilities, foster care). The commission also recommended deeper study of the safety and effectiveness of medication use, especially among children.\n\nNoting the country's services for people with mental illness and disabilities were \"fragmented,\" the commission's final report offered 19 recommendations within six larger goals to improve service coordination, move toward a recovery model, and help all individuals with mental illness and disability recover:\n\nOpponents of the plan see little in the way of potential benefits from the plan, except increased profits for pharmaceutical companies, and have concerns about the potential for unnecessarily causing neurological damage and contributing to increased substance abuse and drug dependence. Critics are also concerned by what they see as the pharmaceutical industry's use of front organizations and the compromise of scientific integrity under color of authority, look askance at the irony of the commission's 'freedom' descriptor, contending the commission is yet another example of the excesses of drug industry marketing, and that the effects of its recommendations will simply foster drug use rather than the prevention of mental illness and use of alternative treatment modalities.\n\n\"Mad in America\" author Robert Whitaker criticized the commission's screening recommendations as \"fishing for customers.\" A coalition of over 100 advocacy organizations, united under the banner of Mindfreedom.org in representing the psychiatric survivors movement, has been galvanized by their strong opposition to the New Freedom Commission. Using celebrity to advance their opposition, the MindFreedom coalition has again enlisted the support of longtime member and Gesundheit Institute founder Patch Adams, a medical doctor made famous by the movie that bears his name. Since 1992, Adams has supported MindFreedom campaigns, and in August, 2004, he kicked off the campaign against the New Freedom Commission by volunteering to screen President Bush himself. \"He needs a lot of help. I'll see him for free,\" said Adams.\n\nOthers, including Congressman Ron Paul (-), were more concerned by the commission's suggestion to use schools as a site for screening. Paul's concern led to the introduction of Parental Consent Act of 2005 in the US House of Representatives on January 4, 2005. The bill, which died in committee, would have forbidden federal funds from being used for any mental health screening of students without the express, written, voluntary, informed consent of parents. Paul introduced similar bills in May 2007 (), April 2009 (), and August 2011 (); those, likewise, died in committee.\n\nCritics also contend that the strategy behind the commission was developed by the pharmaceutical industry, advancing the theory that the primary purpose of the commission was to recommend implementation of TMAP based algorithms on a nationwide basis. TMAP, which advises the use of newer, more expensive medications, has itself has been the subject of controversy in Texas, Pennsylvania and other states where efforts have been made to implement its use.\n\nTMAP, which was created in 1995 while President Bush was governor of Texas, began as an alliance of individuals from the University of Texas, the pharmaceutical industry, and the mental health and corrections systems of Texas. Through the guise of TMAP, critics contend, the drug industry has methodically influenced the decision making of elected and appointed public officials to gain access to citizens in prisons and State psychiatric hospitals. The person primarily responsible for bringing these issues to the public's attention is Allen Jones, a former investigator in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Office of Inspector General (OIG), Bureau of Special Investigations.\n\nJones wrote a lengthy report in which he stated that, behind the recommendations of the New Freedom Commission, was the \"political/pharmaceutical alliance.\" It was this alliance, according to Jones, which developed the Texas project, specifically to promote the use of newer, more expensive antipsychotics and antidepressants. He further claimed this alliance was \"poised to consolidate the TMAP effort into a comprehensive national policy to treat mental illness with expensive, patented medications of questionable benefit and deadly side effects, and to force private insurers to pick up more of the tab.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34696571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34696571", "title": "North Carolina age of juvenile jurisdiction", "text": "North Carolina age of juvenile jurisdiction\n\nRaising the age of juvenile jurisdiction in the state of North Carolina has been an ongoing issue in the North Carolina General Assembly. There are currently two pieces of legislation focusing on this issue, Senate Bill 506 and House Bill 632, which seek to raise the age of jurisdiction from 16 to 18. Four members of the North Carolina House of Representatives serve as the primary sponsors and there are twenty-six co-sponsors. Most of U.S. States define an adult at 18 years old; however, North Carolina and New York define a juvenile who has committed a criminal offense as no older than 16, which places 16- and 17-year-olds in a position where they are tried as adults for any offense. \n\nVarious advocacy groups are in favor of the proposed legislation and see the answer to a more productive society as one which conceals the criminal record of a minor through the age at which an individual is charged in adult court. While opponents fear this legislation will create opportunity for repeat offenders, they are also concerned with the funding for the program, as it seems there is not enough funding at the current capacity. A cost-benefit analysis done by the Vera Institute of Justice determined that initial costs would be high, but in the long run, raising the age would save money because offenders would be more productive in society.\n\nJuvenile jurisdiction issues originated in 1919, \"when fourteen- and fifteen-year-olds initially charged in juvenile court with felonies could be transferred to superior court. Since that time, transfer to adult court has been mandatory for some of the state's most serious felonies. In 1994, the minimum age of transfer was reduced from fourteen to thirteen, giving North Carolina judges the discretion to transfer offenders as young as thirteen from juvenile to superior court for any felony crime.\" The controversy surrounding raising the age of juvenile jurisdiction has been contested for years. \"In 1919, child welfare advocates recognized that providing preventative services to young offenders through the juvenile court system would likely lower the crime rate. In 1947, welfare officials recommended that young offenders receive treatment in specialized boarding homes and detention centers rather than adult jails, as they had found that this investment of time, effort, and money was more than repaid by the improvement in the behavior and attitudes of the children. In 1957, the governor asserted that including sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds within the original jurisdiction of juvenile court would ultimately provide great savings in money and human services. In 1967, it was found that rehabilitating young offenders by providing meaningful academic services and vocational education in open, closely supervised training schools lowered recidivism rates more effectively than methods that punish, ignore, isolate or try to fit the children into a pattern.\"\n\nNorth Carolina House Bill 632 is bipartisan and supported primarily by children advocacy groups such as Action for Children North Carolina and have made several attempts to push legislation. The primary sponsors of the bill include Representatives David Lewis, Shirley Randleman, Marilyn Avila, and Alice Bordsen. The bill is described as \"an act to amend the definition of delinquent juvenile to raise the age from sixteen to eighteen years in six-month increments over a four-year period, to provide that sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds who have been previously convicted of a felony in adult court shall remain in adult court, to provide that sixteen- and seventeen-year olds alleged delinquent for a class A-E felony shall be transferred to adult court, to make conforming changes to other statutes relevant to changing the definition of delinquent juvenile, and to extend the youth accountability task force.\" This bill was filed on April 5, 2011 and was referred to the Committee on Rules, Calendar, and Operations of the House on the following day. On April 7, 2011 the bill was withdrawn from the committee and was re-referred to the Committee. Similar bills have failed in the past because they do not consider the biggest problem associated with the legislation which is the cost associated with increasing the number of children in an underfunded program.\n\nAccording to WRAL-TV News, \"the suggestion is to raise the age of jurisdiction only for misdemeanors and low-level nonviolent felony offenses. It would not apply in cases where a person is accused of violent crimes.\" Peg Dorer, executive director of the North Carolina Conference of District Attorneys, states \"adult courts are better suited to handle adolescents charges with serious offenses like rape, manslaughter, larceny, or murder.\" In the year 2009, \"more than 96 percent were convictions for misdemeanors or low-level felonies.\" According to Jeff Hampton of The Virginian-Pilot, \"Changing the law in North Carolina would move 20,000 teens annually into the juvenile system when the conversion is completed, doubling the current load, according to a 2009 report by the North Carolina Governor's Crime Commission.\"\n\nAccording to The Children's Alliance, the current policy is defined by the following:\n\nAccording to The Children's Alliance, the proposed legislation is defined by the following:\n\nAn emphasis has been placed on increasing the age until which a minor can be sentenced in juvenile court for various reasons. Advocates are concerned for the future of minors who are charged with crimes and the long-lasting effects. \"One of the strongest arguments for raising the age of juvenile court jurisdiction concerns the impact of a criminal conviction on a youth's ability to obtain work\" Often potential employees can be denied employment because of past criminal activities, even if they did not receive a conviction. Another concern of advocates is the opportunity for higher education can be denied or limited by a criminal record. As stated by Tamar Birckhead, \"Access to high education lowers recidivism rates by opening the doors to economic and social advancement, excluding people from college on this basis will inevitably have a deleterious effect on the safety of the community at large.\"\n\nAdvocates also see the importance of minors being placed in the juvenile system because of the services which are available to offenders. By \"providing intensive supervision, meaningful treatment, and rehabilitation to sixteen- and seventeen-year-olds in juvenile court, rather than trying and incarcerating them with adult defendants in criminal courts and prisons, would lower recidivism rates\" whereas \"youth who are tried and sentences as adults have been shown to receive little or no education services, mental health or substance abuse treatment, job training, or any other type of rehabilitative programming.\" \"While rehabilitation programs and intensive treatment for adolescents can be expensive, they ultimately save money by reducing the numbers of those who are prosecuted and sentenced as repeat offenders.\" According to the Campaign for Youth Justice, \"empirical research has demonstrated that violent adolescent offenders prosecuted in adult criminal court are likely to re-offend more quickly and more often than those adjudicated in a juvenile court setting.\" \n\nThe Vera Institute of Justice conducted a cost-benefit analysis which found that \"raising the age of juvenile jurisdiction from 16 to 18 for alleged misdemeanants and low-level felons will generate $52.3 million in net benefits, per annual cohort of youth aged 16 and 17, from the combined perspectives of taxpayers, victims, and youth.\" In addition, \"the policy change will generate an annual net cost of $49.2 million. The net cost equals a cost of $70.9 million to North Carolina's justice agencies minus $21.7 million in benefits to the criminal justice system.\" \"From the victim perspective, raising the age will generate $3.6 million in benefits, per annual cohort of youth aged 16 and 17. Youth whose cases will be handled in the juvenile system will reoffend at lower rates than if they were processed in the adult system, thus reducing victimization and victimization costs.\" \"From the youth perspective, the policy change will generate $97.9 million in long-term benefits, per annual cohort of youth aged 16 and 17. These benefits accrue over a period of 35 years and result from increased lifetime earnings, based upon the fact that youth tried in the juvenile rather than the adult system will be free of the burden of a criminal record that suppresses earning potential.\" The report concluded that raising the age will \"cost taxpayers $70.9 million a year and that this annually reoccurring investment will generate $123.1 million in reoccurring benefits to youth, victims, and taxpayers over the long term. The results indicate that the benefits of the plan outweigh the costs and that, from a cost-benefit standpoint, the policy change merits consideration.\" \n\nAdvocates argue while initial costs are high, over time the costs will balance out as those who are not charged as adults are less likely from becoming re-offenders. Inherently, the costs of detaining juveniles in comparison to adults is more expensive because they require more care. However, this cost is offset by the increased success the juveniles will accomplish throughout their life when tried as a juvenile rather than an adult. One of the bill's sponsors, Alice Bordsen, states the bill \"saves you money in the near future and in the distant future\" supporting the argument that while implementation will be costly, it will serve best to 16- and 17- year olds by allowing them the chance to have a successful future.\n\nOpponents of the bill are concerned primarily with the cost associated with adding juveniles to the system, which is estimated around $50 million a year. Susan Doyle, representing the North Carolina Conference of District Attorneys, the \"current juvenile system is horribly underfunded and would be crushed under the weight of the requirements of this bill without significant additional funding.\" Funding is a deciding factor for many faced with this issue, as many community leaders fear the strain that will be placed on the juvenile system without proper funding. Eddie Caldwell, spokesman for the North Carolina Sheriffs' Association, states \"they are opposed to the current legislation that proposes raising the juvenile age without providing the programs, facilities, and funding that are necessary to do so.\" Caldwell also argues. \"It does not make sense to take a system that all the experts agree does not have the resources to care for the children, and then add two more age groups.\" Debby Burchfield, director of the Juvenile Detention Center in Buncombe County, has been quoted as saying: \"The biggest impact would be physical space, other than additional personnel. Some kids stay just 24 hours, while most stay an average of seven to 10 days.\"\n\nOne issue with the current law is that the 16- and 17-year-olds who are currently tried as an adult face permanent and long-lasting effects as they have a criminal record furthering them from chances for improvement. By raising the age, it is anticipated that recidivism will be reduced and the quality of life will be increased for those who would have become re-offenders. The NC task force believes that this legislation could benefit young adults when tried as juveniles rather than adults because it would allow those who have committed nonviolent crimes an opportunity to live a successful life as an adult. The task force believes the juvenile system allows those charged to \"take advantage of the rehabilitation services.\"\n\nOpponents of the bill believe that by raising the age the legislature is giving children two additional years to commit crimes knowing they would not be charged in an adult court, suggesting that the proposed law would not provide any deterrence. Eddie Caldwell provides a valid defense against the proposed legislation and proves to be the leading contestant against House Bill 632. In addition to monetary costs that are associated with the legislation, Caldwell argues various other reasons as to why the legislation is disorganized. Caldwell argues that advocates are not addressing a major concern in which he states, \"if its a kid that's done something wrong - as we all have - some worse than others, for the first time, then how do you deal with the child as opposed to the one that you've dealt with 100 times before?\" He also states, \"Currently we allow that age group to decide whether or not they want to drop out of school, and that decision is no less important to the future of that child, and no less critical to their success than whether or not they commit a crime.\" While taking a critical stance against the proposed policy, Caldwell \"says the Sheriff's Association is in favor of allotting the Department of Juvenile Justice with the proper resources for its current overall workload.\"\n"}
{"id": "16438268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16438268", "title": "Patient and mortuary neglect", "text": "Patient and mortuary neglect\n\nNeglect is defined as giving little attention to or to leave undone or unattended to, especially through carelessness. Mortuary neglect can comprise many things, such as bodies being stolen from the morgue, or bodies being mixed up and the wrong one was buried. When a mortuary fails to preserve a body correctly, it could also be considered neglect because of the consequences.\n\nPatient neglect is similar to mortuary neglect with one major difference: that patient neglect has to do with people who are still living and that neglect could ultimately lead to their death. Patient neglect concerns people in hospitals, in nursing homes, or being cared for in home. Usually in nursing homes or home-assisted living, neglect would consist of patients being left lying in their own urine and/or feces, which could, in turn, possibly attract flesh flies and lead to maggot infestation. It also encompasses patients getting rashes, lice, and other sores from being improperly cared for.\n\nThe general sign of mortuary neglect (in terms of forensic entomology) is an infestation of maggots or some other insect (such as cockroaches) of a corpse. This should not be confused with insects found on a body before they are transferred to the morgue. The following examples are forms of mortuary neglect that pertain to the ethical treatment of a corpse.\n\nImproper embalming is the utilization of embalming techniques that cause premature decomposition of the body especially in cases where the body in question is to be presented in an open-casket funeral. In addition, not refrigerating the body immediately following death, but before the embalming process could lead to rapid deterioration of the human remains as well.\n\nOn August 29, 1994, widow Marian Washington filed suit against funeral home, John T. Rhines Co., for improperly embalming her late husband Vernon W. Washington. She claimed that the embalming fluid was leaking and that her husband’s skin was decomposing at an alarming rate. John T. Rhines Co. re-embalmed Mr. Washington in efforts to make his body presentable. However, they failed to restore Mr. Washington’s body completely.\n\nOn May 3, 1956, Cooley, a petitioner of a particular funeral home tried to appeal the revoke of his license by the California state board of funeral directors and embalmers. The case reveals the reasons as to why the license was revoked. Cooley’s practices were described as unsanitary for the following reasons: an infant was discovered improperly embalmed after maggots were seeping out of its orifices, commingling of bodies, blood stains were found on the walls, and tools used were not cleaned from one autopsy to the next. Needless to say, the appeal was not granted.\n\nThis form of abuse consists of selling body parts stolen from carcasses that are sent to the morgue for embalming.\n\nCommingling of ashes is putting several carcasses in the same crematorium during the same burn cycle. This act undermines the respect due a passed loved one.\n\nIn this form of abuse, funeral home operators dispose of the body in a manner not authorized by the deceased’s loved ones.\n\nOn June 28, 1990, a court heard a case on a class action suit against multiple funeral service operators. These acts included all of the types of mortuary neglect mentioned above in this section. The case contended that the defendants violated conscionable standards regarding the treatment of the deceased. This practice occurred for nearly a decade and victimized approximately 17,000 decedents and their families.\n\nAny violation of the standards that any reasonable person would expect of a Mortuary operator could be considered in this category.\n\nJames Dennis, widower of Molly Dennis, sued Robbins Funeral Home on August 24, 1987. Before Mrs. Dennis was to be cremated, Lee Miller, the funeral director of Robbins Funeral Home called the family to see the body. When the family arrived, to their dismay, they found Molly Dennis’s body unprofessionally presented in an unhygienic environment as unspecified limbs were hanging off the dissection table and into a dirty sink. Mr. Dennis was not, however, able to successfully sue the funeral home because the judicial history in the area did not include a precedent for funeral home malpractice.\n\nThe National Funeral Directors Association (NFDA) is an organization in the United States that regulates mortuaries and morgues and their activities regarding the embalming and interring of the deceased. With any complaint including mortuary neglect, the NFDA has a fifteen step disciplinary process it goes through to determine the severity of the situation. After receiving a complaint, a committee reviews the situation even to the extent of an investigation and then they determine the consequences of the violation. Those considered in violation of the NFDA’s policies could face punitive action ranging from a warning to suspension from the organization.\n\nThere are certain segments of the health care industry that are seeing downward moves in neglect, while other sections are experiencing unfortunate growth. In modern hospitals the most prevalent form of neglect deals with the patients themselves neglecting their own care. However, in other segments such as assisted living for mentally deficient patients the rates of abuse and neglect are still relatively high.\n\nMortuary neglect is another segment that has peculiar trends. There are relatively few morticians that just refuse to perform their duties. However, cases of ethically questionable practices can be easily found. Morticians only preserving visible body parts, incomplete embalming and defrauding families are just a few examples of reported cases of neglect.\n\nIncreasingly medical journals are recommending that doctors become more active in attempting to persuade parents and guardians of children to either accept or continue treatment for diseases or injuries in order to avoid a neglect case. In the American Orthopedic Journal a case study was presented where a doctor suggested that an effort to convince a girl's mother to adequately treat a case of ambylopia to avoid potential neglect. While a viewpoint arguing this was unnecessary, it shows a growing trend to go beyond traditional measures to avoid neglect charges.\n\nFrom the times of the ancient Egyptians, cases of mortuary neglect have been recorded. The process of embalming is to preserve the dead for burial, as the Egyptians believed the afterlife was just as important as life itself. However, if a woman was married to an embalmer, he would likely keep her preserved for his own benefit until obvious decomposition took place.\n\nDignity for the dead is now a legal matter, as patient neglect has always been. Abuse in the healthcare system is another huge problem in today’s society. Nursing homes and hospitals are preying grounds for predators of the weak and disabled. In 2001 a nursing home in Ossining, New York was closed because of neglect and unsafe conditions that existed for the patients.\n\nFor the most part, mortuary standards are created by the states, not by the federal government. The following are links to state policies (where available) on mortuary practices:\n"}
{"id": "2312017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312017", "title": "Procurator fiscal", "text": "Procurator fiscal\n\nA procurator fiscal (pl. \"procurators fiscal\"), sometimes called PF or fiscal, is a public prosecutor in Scotland (who, despite the title, has little to do with fiscal issues). They investigate all sudden and suspicious deaths in Scotland (similar to a coroner in other legal systems), conduct fatal accident inquiries (a form of inquest unique to the Scottish legal system) and handle criminal complaints against the police (administrative complaints are handled by the Police Complaints Commissioner for Scotland). They also receive reports from specialist reporting agencies such as Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs.\n\nFor the majority of crimes in Scotland, the procurators fiscal present cases for the prosecution in the sheriff, district and justice of the peace courts, and the case for the defence is presented either by the accused, a solicitor, or an advocate. The solicitor will work for a firm of solicitors, or in certain areas of Scotland could be a public defender working for the Public Defence Solicitors' Office.\n\nThe procurator fiscal has the discretion to not prosecute and pursue alternatives free from political interference, but is always subject to the directions of the Crown Office and the Lord Advocate.\n\nThe office most likely originates in the Roman-Dutch and French manorial or seignorial administrator (Dutch \"procurator-fiscaal\", French \"procureur fiscal\"), who, as the \"fiscal\" in the title suggests, was originally an officer of the sheriff (the local law enforcement officer and judge) with financial (fiscal) responsibilities: the procurator fiscal collected debts, fines, and taxes. However, such responsibilities had been eclipsed in the course of the 18th century by their duty as prosecutor in the sheriff court with the passage of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1701. In this capacity they gave concurrence in private prosecutions and prosecuted on behalf of the Crown. The Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1867 gave procurators fiscal full responsibility in law for prosecution of all criminal acts in Scotland.\n\nOriginally the fiscal was the sheriff's official and tenure of the office was at the pleasure of the sheriff. With the decline of private prosecution the fiscal came to be regarded more and more as under the control of the Lord Advocate. In 1776 the government started to pay procurators fiscal to take precognitions and in 1907 the right of appointing procurators fiscal was transferred to the Lord Advocate, and in 1927 procurators fiscal became full-time civil servants.\n\nProcurators fiscal make preliminary investigations into criminal cases, take written statements from witnesses (known as precognition) and are responsible for the investigation and prosecution of crime. This includes the power to direct the police in their investigation, but except for serious crimes such as murder the police normally complete their enquiries before involving the procurator fiscal.\n\nUnder solemn High Court procedure, once someone has been charged with an offence and remanded in custody, the Crown must bring the case to a preliminary hearing within 110 days.\n\nThe procurator fiscal has never been obliged to prosecute and can choose the level at which to prosecute (either through solemn or summary procedure). The defendant has no right to choose a jury trial, nor can a victim on their own decide to press charges, as the decision on whether to try by jury or summarily belongs to the prosecutor. Until 1987, however, their discretion only extended to the degree to which they should prosecute, if at all; there were no alternatives to prosecution. The Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 1987 gave procurators fiscal the power to offer fixed penalties instead of prosecution (a fiscal fine), at the time limited to a maximum of £25 and subsequently increased to £300.\n\nSince then these options have expanded to giving a warning, fiscal fines, compensation orders, work orders, road traffic fixed penalties or diversion from prosecution into social work, psychological counselling or psychiatric treatment.\n\nAll suspicious, sudden and accidental deaths must be reported to the procurator fiscal, and they have a responsibility to identify if any criminal action has occurred and, where appropriate, prosecute. Where a criminal offence is suspected to have occurred the procurator fiscal will instruct the local police to investigate.\n\nFatal accidents can be subject to a fatal accident inquiry, a form of judicial inquiry akin to an inquest but conducted without a jury. Fatal accident inquiries are conducted in a sheriff court. An inquiry must be held for all deaths in custody and fatal accidents, with other accidental deaths subject to inquiry at the discretion of the procurator fiscal.\n\nFor the most serious crimes, the case will not be directly prosecuted by the procurator fiscal. Instead, the case will be heard at the High Court of Justiciary and the prosecution will be made in the name of the Lord Advocate by an Advocate Depute.\n\nThere are eleven procurators fiscal in Scotland, each covering a geographical area or jurisdiction with a central office. Outside Strathclyde, these areas typically correspond with constabulary areas for the former territorial police forces in Scotland. They are (with areas in Strathclyde marked with an asterisk):\n\n\nA procurator fiscal is appointed to the Court of the Lord Lyon, which is a civil and criminal court dealing with Scottish heraldry and genealogy in Scotland. This Court is unique to Scots culture with heraldry playing an important role, particularly in relation to the clan system. Coats of arms that are registered are required to pay a fee to the Crown and must adhere to specific rules concerning their shape, colour and imagery. The procurator fiscal is appointed under the Lyon King of Arms Act 1867, formerly by the Lord Lyon, but since changes were made by the Convention Rights (Compliance) (Scotland) Act 2001, by the Scottish Ministers.\n\nIf any of the rules concerning a coat of arms – also known as \"an achievement\" – are broken, it is the procurator fiscal's job, as the independent official prosecutor of the court, to determine whether they should initiate criminal proceedings.\n\n"}
{"id": "34405033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34405033", "title": "Protests against SOPA and PIPA", "text": "Protests against SOPA and PIPA\n\nOn January 18, 2012, a series of coordinated protests occurred against two proposed laws in the United States Congress—the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA). These followed smaller protests in late 2011. Protests were based on concerns that the bills, intended to provide more robust responses to copyright infringement (also known as piracy) arising outside the United States, contained measures that could possibly infringe online freedom of speech, websites, and Internet communities. Protesters also argued that there were insufficient safeguards in place to protect sites based upon user-generated content.\n\nThe move to a formal protest was initiated when some websites, including Reddit and the English Wikipedia, considered temporarily closing their content and redirecting users to a message opposing the proposed legislation. Others, such as Google, Mozilla, and Flickr, soon featured protests against the acts. Some shut down completely, while others kept some or all of their content accessible. According to protest organizer Fight for the Future, more than 115,000 websites joined the Internet protest. In addition to the online protests, there were simultaneous physical demonstrations in several U.S. cities, including New York City, San Francisco and Seattle, and separately during December 2011 a mass boycott of then–supporter GoDaddy. The protests were reported globally.\n\nThe January protest, initially planned to coincide with the first SOPA hearing of the year, drew publicity and reaction. Days prior to the action, the White House issued a statement that it would \"not support legislation that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global Internet.\" On January 18 itself, more than 8 million people looked up their representative on Wikipedia, 3 million people emailed Congress to express opposition to the bills, more than 1 million messages were sent to Congress through the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a petition at Google recorded over 4.5 million signatures, Twitter recorded at least 2.4 million SOPA-related tweets, and lawmakers collected \"more than 14 million names—more than 10 million of them voters—who contacted them to protest\" the bills.\n\nDuring and after the January protest, a number of politicians who had previously supported the bills expressed concerns with the proposals in their existing form, while others withdrew their support entirely. Internationally, \"scathing\" criticism of the bills was voiced from World Wide Web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee, as well as the European Commissioner for the Digital Agenda. Some observers were critical of the tactics used; the \"Boston Herald\" described the service withdrawals as evidence of \"how very powerful these cyber-bullies can be.\" Motion Picture Association of America Chairman Chris Dodd stated that the coordinated shutdown was \"an abuse of power given the freedoms these companies enjoy in the marketplace today.\" Others such as \"The New York Times\" saw the protests as \"a political coming of age for the tech industry.\"\n\nBy January 20, 2012, the political environment regarding both bills had shifted significantly. The bills were removed from further voting, ostensibly to be revised to take into consideration the issues raised, but according to \"The New York Times\" probably \"shelved\" following a \"flight away from the bill\". Opposers noted the bills had been \"indefinitely postponed\" but cautioned they were \"not dead\" and \"would return.\"\n\nThe Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA) are bills that were introduced into the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate in the last quarter of 2011. Both are responses to the problem of enforcement of U.S. laws against websites outside U.S. jurisdiction. While the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) and other existing laws have generally been considered effective against illegal content or activities on U.S.-based sites, action is more difficult against overseas websites. SOPA and PIPA proposed to rectify this by cutting off infringing sites from their U.S.-based funding (particularly advertising), payment processors, appearances on search engines, and visibility on web browsers, instead. Major providers of all these services are predominantly U.S.-based. Notably, the provisions also involved modifying the DNS system, a crucial service that underpins the entire Internet and allows computers to locate each other reliably around the world.\n\nSupporters included, but were not limited to, media companies and industry associations such as the Motion Picture Association of America, the Recording Industry Association of America and the Entertainment Software Association. Supporters generally identified a need to have more effective laws to combat the illegal domestic sales of products and services, the counterfeiting and sale of products (such as prescription drugs, athletic shoes, and cosmetics), and worldwide copyright infringing activities which were problematic to prevent inasmuch as they originated outside the United States.\n\nThose opposed included a mixture of technology and Internet firms and associations, content creators such as the Wikipedia community, free software authors, free speech organizations, lawmakers, and other websites and organizations, as well as members of the public using their services. They generally identified two main areas of severe side-effects: (1) effects on Internet websites, communities and user-generated content, and (2) effects on critically fundamental internet architecture and security:\n\n\n\nGoogle's policy director, Bob Boorstin, stated that a site like YouTube supporting user-generated content \"would just go dark immediately\" to comply with the legislation. Tumblr, one of the first websites active in grassroots activism against the bills, added a feature that \"censored\" its website on November 16, 2011, and the social media aggregator Reddit also became deeply involved.\n\nOn November 16, 2011, a first hearing by the U.S. House Judiciary Committee was marked by online protests involving blackened website banners, popularly described as \"American Censorship Day\".\n\nOn December 15, 2011, the first House Judiciary Committee mark-up hearing took place for SOPA, prior to its eventual move to the House floor. During the markup session, several proposed amendments to address technological and other concerns were defeated. The mark-up process was put on hold to be resumed after the new year.\n\nAround this time, numerous websites began displaying banners and messages promoting their readerships to contact Congress to stop the progress of the bill, and some websites began to discuss or endorse a possible \"Internet blackout\" before any vote on SOPA in the House, as a means of further protest. Reddit was the first major site to announce an \"Internet blackout\" for January 18, 2012, and several other sites shortly followed, coordinating actions for that day.\n\nA notable political response to the November 2011 protests was the outlining in early December of a bipartisan third, alternative, bill with the support of technology companies such as Google and Facebook, which unusually had been posted on the Internet to allow public comment and suggestions in light of the widespread protests related to the SOPA and PIPA bills. It was formally introduced as the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act (OPEN) in the Senate on December 17 by Senator Ron Wyden and in the House on January 18 by Representative Darrell Issa. It proposed placing enforcement in the hands of the United States International Trade Commission, keeping provisions that targeted payments and advertising for infringing websites, and tightly targeted wording to avoid many other key areas of concern with SOPA and PIPA.\n\nOnline discussions of a blackout and concerns over the bills continued unabated after the markup hearing and increased in prominence. On January 11, Senator Patrick Leahy, the main sponsor for PIPA, said of the DNS filtering provision, \"I will therefore propose that the positive and negative effects of this provision be studied before implemented\", reported by some papers as removal of those provisions. Opposers deemed this a tactical withdrawal allowing reintroduction at a later stage and ignoring other concerns as well as provisions in PIPA, and evidence that the bill had not been understood or checked by its own creators and that proposals for a blackout were gaining impact. Momentum for the protests continued unchanged since the bills had merely been postponed, and due to their other contentious provisions.\n\nOn November 16, 2011, SOPA was discussed by the U.S. House Committee on the Judiciary. Tumblr, Mozilla, Techdirt, and the Center for Democracy and Technology were among many Internet companies who protested by participating in 'American Censorship Day', by displaying black banners over their site logos with the words \"STOP CENSORSHIP.\"\n\nOn December 22, 2011, users at Reddit proposed a boycott and a public day for switching away from then–SOPA supporter GoDaddy, the largest ICANN-accredited registrar in the world, known as Move Your Domain Day. The date was later set as December 29, 2011.\n\nPopular websites that moved domains included imgur, the Wikimedia Foundation, and Cheezburger — which stated it would remove over 1,000 domains from GoDaddy if they continued their support of SOPA.\n\nOn December 23, GoDaddy withdrew its support for SOPA, releasing a statement saying \"GoDaddy will support it when and if the Internet community supports it.\" CEO Warren Adelman stated when asked, that he couldn't commit to changing GoDaddy's position on the record in Congress, but said \"I'll take that back to our legislative guys, but I agree that's an important step\"; when pressed, he said \"We're going to step back and let others take leadership roles.\" Further outrage was due to the fact that many Internet sites would be subject to shutdowns under SOPA, but GoDaddy is in a narrow class of exempted businesses that would have immunity, whereas many other domain operators would not.\n\nOn December 26, 2011, a Google bomb was started against GoDaddy to remove them from the #1 place on Google for the term \"Domain Registration\" in retaliation for supporting SOPA. This was then disseminated through Hacker News. Reddit users noted that by December 22, 2011, SOPA supporters were discovering the backlash that could arise from ignoring social media users.\n\nReports up to December 29 described GoDaddy as \"hemorrhaging\" customers. On December 25, 2011 (Christmas Day), GoDaddy lost a net 16,191 domains as a result of the boycott. However, on December 29 itself, GoDaddy gained a net of 20,748 domains, twice as many as it lost that day, attributed by Techdirt to a number of causes, in particular customers having moved early, and an appeased customer response to their change of position over SOPA.\n\nOn December 10, 2011, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales drew attention to concerns over SOPA, which he described as a \"much worse law\" than the \"DDL intercettazioni\" (Wiretapping Bill) in Italy some months earlier, and which was being fast-tracked through the United States Congress under a \"misleading title\". He stated he was attending high-level meetings on this, and wanted to gauge the sense of the English Wikipedia community on the issue, and specifically on the question of a blackout similar to that held successfully in October 2011 by Italian Wikipedia editors over the proposed media censorship law in that country:\n\nFollowing initial informal discussions which resulted in a positive response, a formal consultation titled \"SOPA Initiative\" was opened by the community to consider specific proposals and preferred options. These included matters such as location (United States only or worldwide), and whether content should be disabled completely or still accessible after a click-through page. Eventually, the discussion led to a decision strongly in favor of a 24-hour global blackout of the site on January 18, disabling normal reading and editing functions, affirmed in a vote of approximately 1,800 editors. The blocking action was purposely not complete; users could access Wikipedia content from the mobile interface or mirror sites, or if they disabled JavaScript or other web browser functions. Within hours of the start of the blackout, many websites posted instructions for disabling the banner, by altering URLs, using browser add-ons such as Adblock Plus or Greasemonkey, or interrupting the page from loading completely. \n\nThe vote formally affected the English Wikipedia only; other language editions and Wikimedia projects were left free to decide whether to hold their own protests given the potential worldwide impact of the legislation, with technical support on offer from the Foundation. The editor communities of at least 30 other sister projects chose to do so.\n\nOn January 17, 2012, Jimmy Wales affirmed the results of the community's decision and that the Wikimedia Foundation, which hosts the English Wikipedia website, would support the community's decision. He called for a \"public uprising\" against the proposed legislation, which critics fear would threaten free speech. He added that factors such as funding or donations had not been part of the community's considerations, but the matter had arisen as \"a principled stand\" from the community, and that in his view \"our best long-term prospect for Wikipedia in terms of our survival ... depends on us being principled\". He commented on editors' reasons for the decision:\n\nWikimedia Executive Director Sue Gardner posted an announcement of the Foundation's support for the blackout proposal on Wikimedia's blog. The post received over 7000 responses from the general public within the first 24 hours of its posting. The blackout was to run for 24 hours starting at 05:00 UTC (midnight Eastern Standard Time) on January 18.\n\nDespite the support of those polled for the action, a small number of Wikipedia editors blacked out their own user profile pages or resigned their administrative positions in protest of the blackout; one editor stated his \"main concern is that it puts the organization in the role of advocacy, and that's a slippery slope\".\n\nApproximately 90% out of the 2097 editors who took part in the votes supported joining the blackout action. It is estimated that only less than half the voters were from the United States, which suggests that Wikipedia acted as a platform for an international community to express its opinion. The most common rationale expressed by about a fifth of the editors was the sentiment that \"SOPA was perceived as a worldwide threat\". A majority of editors who opposed the participation were concerned with the perceived dissonance between Wikipedia's encyclopedic ethos, neutrality and active participation in a political issue (sentiment endorsed by about 4% of the vote participants); only 0.3% of participating editors suggested they support a tougher copyright regime.\n\nAccording to protest organizer \"Fight for the Future\", more than 115,000 websites participated in the protest, including Google and Wikipedia. Websites that participated in the blackout included Cheezburger, Craigslist, Boing Boing, A Softer World, Cake Wrecks, Cyanide & Happiness, Demand Progress, Destructoid, Entertainment Consumers Association. Free Press, Failblog, Newgrounds, Good.is, GOG.com, Gamesradar, Internet Archive, Marxists Internet Archive, Jay is Games, Mojang, MoveOn.org, Mozilla, MS Paint Adventures, Rate Your Music, Reddit, Roblox, Oh No They Didn't, Tucows, blip.tv, Tumblr, TwitPic, Twitter, The Oatmeal, VGMusic, Wikia, WordPress, the webcomic xkcd as well as the corporate site of the Linux distribution openSUSE and the congressional websites of Silicon Valley representatives Anna Eshoo and Zoe Lofgren. Google announced their intention to join the blackout by altering their logo for US visitors for the day, almost entirely obscuring it with an interactive black redaction swath. Clicking through the specially designed logo took readers to an informational page about the bills, and the opportunity to sign a petition to be sent to Congress stating their concerns.\n\nThe Mozilla Foundation altered the default start page of their Firefox web browser, blacking it out and providing links with more information on the SOPA/PIPA bills and the opposition to them, and to allow users to email their Congressional representatives.\n\nTV Tropes posted black bars atop the web page with the message \"STOP SOPA\".\n\nMojang's bestselling game \"Minecraft\" made a splash text that said \"SOPA means LOSER in Swedish!\"\n\nA site called The Spoony Experiment, known for a cute robot mascot called Burton, changed the homepage into a more nightmarish version, involving a nightmarish version of Burton and the words \"The Spoony Experiment\" replaced by red text proclaiming \"The Experiment is Over\", signifying the proposed death of several websites.\n\n\"Wired\" magazine's online site used Javascript to place black bars on most of the text on their page, as if the text was redacted, outside of their key article regarding SOPA/PIPA; readers could remove the bars with a mouse click.\n\nThe photo-sharing website Flickr created the ability for a registered user to \"censor\" an unlimited number (up from an initial limit of ten) of photos as demonstration of how SOPA/PIPA regulation would affect the site; the user-selected photographs were greyed out, and included informational text.\n\n4chan ran a banner and \"censored\" posts by users on all image boards, which could be viewed by hovering over them.\n\nStumbleUpon added numerous links to anti-SOPA/PIPA websites.\n\nA video was circulated by the League for Gamers (founded by Mark Kern and supported by ScrewAttack, \"Extra Credits\", and \"LoadingReadyRun\") protesting the Entertainment Software Association's support of SOPA by gathering support to boycott the ESA's popular E3 convention.\n\nIn addition to the online blackouts, protests in cities such as New York City, San Francisco, and Seattle were held on January 18 to raise awareness of the two bills.\n\nA series of pickets against the bills were held at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. Two picketers were arrested.\n\nThe announcement of the blackout was reported worldwide. Media that covered the story included ABC Australia, CBC, BBC, \"der Spiegel\", \"Le Figaro\", \"Le Monde\", \"Libération\",\" Fox News\", \"The Guardian\", Menafn, News Limited, Sky News, \"The Age\", \"The Hindu\", \"The New York Times\", \"Taipei Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The Times of India\".\n\nSeveral media organizations including \"The Washington Post\", \"The Guardian\", and NPR encouraged a \"crowdsourcing solution for those left searching for answers\" during the Wikipedia blackout by inviting users to ask questions on Twitter using the hashtag #altwiki.\n\nAn executive of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) dubbed the blackout plan an example of the \"gimmicks and distortion\" that inflamed passions while failing to solve the problem of copyright infringement by \"draw[ing] people away from trying to resolve what is a real problem, which is that foreigners continue to steal the hard work of Americans\". Former U.S. Senator and MPAA Director Chris Dodd stated that the coordinated shutdown was \"also an abuse of power given the freedoms these companies enjoy in the marketplace today.\"\n\nDick Costolo, CEO of social networking site Twitter, rejected calls for Twitter to join the protest, tweeting that \"[c]losing a global business in reaction to single-issue national politics is foolish.\" Originally, some thought Costolo referred to all of the blackout movements on January 18, but afterwards clarified that he was referring to a hypothetical blackout of Twitter, and that he was supportive of the Wikipedia blackout itself.\n\nThe sponsor of the bill, Representative Lamar S. Smith, called the blackout a \"publicity stunt,\" and stated with reference to Wikipedia that \"it is ironic a website dedicated to providing information is spreading misinformation about the Stop Online Piracy Act.\"\n\nOn January 17, 2012, in response to growing concerns over PIPA and SOPA, the White House stated that it \"will not support legislation that reduces freedom of expression, increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines the dynamic, innovative global Internet.\"\nThe Wikimedia Foundation reported that there were over 162 million visits to the blacked-out version of Wikipedia during the 24-hour period, with at least 8 million uses of the site's front page to look up contact information for their U.S. Congressional representatives. The usage of Wikipedia's front page increased enormously during the blackout with 17,535,733 page views recorded, compared with 4,873,388 on the previous day. A petition created and linked to by Google recorded over 4.5 million signatures, while the Electronic Frontier Foundation reported that more than 1 million email messages were sent to congressmen through their site during the blackout. MSNBC reported that over 2.4 million Twitter messages about SOPA, PIPA, and the blackouts were made during a 16-hour period on January 18; this included Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, who had not used the service since 2009, to encourage his followers to contact their congressmen. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR), a key opponent of the bills, said that \"lawmakers had collected more than 14 million names - more than 10 million of them voters\" to protest the legislation.\n\n\"Time\" reported that before the day had ended, \"the political dominoes began to fall ... then trickle turned into flood\". It named ten senators who had announced their switch to opposing the bills and stated that \"nearly twice that many House members\" had done so.\n\nDuring the blackout, libraries at several universities used the outage to remind students that the traditional paper encyclopedias were available for research. Students who grew up turning to the internet to look up information were encouraged to visit the library as an alternative source of information. On Twitter, a joke hashtag #factswithoutWikipedia trended with users posting humorous fake \"facts.\" \"Startled\" Internet users frustrated or angry at their loss of Wikipedia for the day used Twitter as an outlet; politicians likewise turned to Twitter when overwhelmed by the public communications flood in support of the blackout. CTV news in Canada published a \"survival guide\" for \"getting around the blackout\" on their national website, citing Wikipedia as the answer to \"burning questions such as \"Are chinchillas rodents?\" and \"What does 'rickrolling' mean?\" The guide provided detailed instructions on how to circumvent the ban and access the English Wikipedia during the protest. CTV referred to the protest as \"a date that will live in ignorance.\" Creative America, a coalition representing movie studios, entertainment unions, and television networks, used the blackout to prompt those affected by it to enjoy other forms of entertainment in place of their normal Internet activities; such ads appeared at Times Square in New York City and on various websites.\n\nThe impact of the coordinated action was generally considered to be significant. Yochai Benkler of the Berkman Center for Internet & Society stated that the January 18 blackout was \"a very strong public demonstration to suggest that what historically was seen as a technical system of rules that only influences the content industry has become something more,\" further adding \"You've got millions of citizens who care enough to act. That's not trivial.\" California House member Darrell Issa called the collective effort an unprecedented means for upsetting a backroom lobbying effort, and the immediate political efficacy of the widespread online protest was characterised in terms of a sleeping giant having awakened and of a new player being in town. One Silicon Valley lobbyist said the content industry had \"a lot to learn,\" noting that they don't have grassroots support: \"There are no Facebook pages to call your congressman to support PIPA and SOPA.\" \"The New York Times\", which framed the netizens' revolt in terms of the new economy versus the old economy, headlined the activism as a \"political coming of age for the tech industry.\" (James Grimmelmann, an Associate Professor at New York Law School, opined two months later that \"Legal systems are like Soylent Green: they're made out of people. If you want to protect civil liberties using law, you need to get people on your side who share your vision of what law stands for. That's why the SOPA protests were so effective. They converted an argument about justice into real-world political power.\")\n\nNewspaper editorials had mixed views. The \"Boston Herald\" called the protest a \"hissy fit\" by \"Internet powerhouses\" saying, \"within hours of the online protest, political supporters of the bill... began dropping like flies, thus proving how very powerful these cyber-bullies can be.\" The \"New York Times\" described the protest as \"Noted, but as a Brief Inconvenience\" and, as well, offered an opinion about the protest and possible accomplishments. BBC News technology writer Rory Cellan-Jones was of the opinion that the blackout achieved its objectives but possibly at some cost to Wikipedia's reputation. Bill Keller was of the view that \"Jimmy Wales... assumed a higher profile as a combatant for the tech industry [and] supplied an aura of credibility to a libertarian alliance that ranged from the money-farming Megatrons of Google to the hacker anarchists of Anonymous.\"\nMedia columnist David Carr wrote in the \"New York Times\" that there were two lessons, one being that \"People who don't understand the Web should not try to re-engineer it\", and the other that while businesses generally prize their relations with their customers, in the struggle between media and technology companies, the latter have \"a much more chronic [i.e. ongoing], intimate relationship with consumers\" and would more likely prevail.\n\nMotion Picture Association of America chairman Chris Dodd admitted that the content industry had lost the public relations battle with the Internet industry, adding that \"[y]ou've got an opponent who has the capacity to reach millions of people with a click of a mouse and there's no fact-checker. They can say whatever they want.\" Dodd called for Hollywood and Silicon Valley to work out a compromise on the legislation, but was also criticized for a statement on \"Fox News\" to the effect that politicians would risk having campaign funding cut off if they did not support media industry proposals. The legal director of public interest group Public Knowledge was quoted on that organization's website as writing:\n\nThreats like that are no way to conduct the serious, sober discussions needed to figure out exactly what ails the movie industry and to come up with solutions. It was Hollywood's arrogance in pushing bills through Congress without proper vetting that caused them to be withdrawn; these threats also are not helpful to figuring out what ails the industry and how to solve their issues.\n\nAmong other media industry reactions, Creative America was of the view that \"[t]hey've misidentified this issue as an issue about your Internet, your Internet is being jeopardized. In fact their business model is being asked to be subjected to regulation. They're misleading their huge base.\" Recording Industry Association of America President Cary Sherman noted that the major television networks supported the legislation but, unlike Wikipedia and Google, did not use their platforms to try to shape public opinion: \"when Wikipedia and Google purport to be neutral sources of information that is not only not neutral but affirmatively incomplete and misleading, they are duping their users into accepting as truth what are merely self-serving political declarations.\"\n\nRep. Lamar Smith, who sponsored SOPA, flatly stated in a commentary on Fox News that \"This bill does not threaten the Internet. But it does threaten the profits generated by foreign criminals who target the U.S. market and willfully steal intellectual property by trafficking in counterfeit or pirated goods.\" While speaking on the Senate floor on January 23 Senator Leahy reiterated his objections to the protests, saying:\n\nWebsites like Wikipedia and YouTube... would not be subject to the provisions of the bill. That Wikipedia and some other websites decided to \"go dark\" on January 18 was their choice, self imposed and was not caused by the legislation and could not be. <br>\nIt was disappointing that sites linked to descriptions of this legislation that were misleading and one-sided. The Internet should be a place for discussion, for all to be heard and for different points of view to be expressed. That is how truth emerges and democracy is served. Last week, however, many were subjected to false and incendiary charges and sloganeering designed to inflame emotions.\nWorld Wide Web inventor Sir Tim Berners-Lee \"scathingly\" attacked the SOPA and PIPA legislation. Speaking at an industry event in Florida he praised the protests by major sites for the attention they had drawn, and described the bills as a \"grave threat to the openness of the Internet\" that \"had to be stopped\":\n\nTwo days later, Vice-President of the European Commission and European Commissioner for the Digital Agenda Neelie Kroes described the bills as \"bad legislation\" that would \"threaten the basic foundation of the success of the web\". She also said there \"should be safeguarding benefits of open net.\" \"Speeding is illegal too but you don't put speed bumps on the motorway,\" she said.\n\nSOPA and PIPA protests were overlapped and followed by protests against ACTA which has a similar sense. The ACTA treaty was signed by 22 Member States in Europe and was expected to be signed before March 2012 by the other left Cyprus, Estonia, Netherlands and Slovakia, and thus would have gained legal force for the whole European Union. On February 11, more than 200 European cities took part in a widespread protest against ACTA. Although protests were held in Europe, the signing of ACTA was led by USA, Australia, Canada, South Korea, Japan, New Zealand, Morocco, and Singapore, which were first to sign the treaty at a ceremony on October 1, 2011, in Tokyo. However, the concerns of ACTA are much related and raised after the protests against SOPA and PIPA which directed the public attention to bills and acts that may threaten Internet and civic liberties.\n\nDuring the day of January 18, six of PIPA's sponsors in the Senate, including Marco Rubio, PIPA's co-sponsor, Orrin Hatch, Kelly Ayotte, Roy Blunt, John Boozman, and Mark Kirk, stated that they would withdraw their support for the bills. Several other congressmen issued statements critical of the current versions of both bills.\n\nBy the following day, eighteen of the 100 senators, including eleven of the original sponsors of the PIPA bill, had announced that they no longer supported PIPA. By one account, the shift in stated positions on SOPA/PIPA by members of Congress had gone overnight from 80 for and 31 against to 65 for and 101 against. An initial floor vote was scheduled for January 24, prior to the Internet blackout, but following these responses, Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid announced that the vote will be postponed, urging the bill's main sponsor, Senator Patrick Leahy, to work out compromise in the bill \"to forge a balance between protecting Americans' intellectual property, and maintaining openness and innovation on the Internet.\" Similarly, the House Judiciary Subcommittee chairman, Representative Lamar S. Smith, announced that further voting on SOPA would be placed on hold \"until there is wider agreement on a solution.\" Later, an updated \"The New York Times\" news story reported that the two bills were \"indefinitely shelved.\" House Committee on Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa commented that \"This unprecedented effort has turned the tide against a backroom lobbying effort by interests that aren't used to being told 'no'\", describing the events as a \"responsible and transparent exercise of freedom of speech\". Opposers cautioned that although \"postponed,\" the bills were \"not dead\" and \"would return.\"\n\nMonths after the protests, in July 2012, \"The New York Times\" summarized events as follows:\nWikipedia went black to protest SOPA and more than seven million people signed online petitions, many of which said the bills would \"break the Internet.\" Congress, overwhelmed by the popular opposition, quickly backpedaled, leaving the legislation to die.\n\nThe development of the electronic grassroots campaign has been the subject of academic analysis.\n\nAccording to the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), \"SOPA and PIPA are really only the tip of the iceberg. The same forces behind these domestic U.S. laws have continued to both push for other states to pass similar domestic laws, as well as to secretly negotiate international trade agreements that would force signatory nations to conform to the same legal standards.\"\n\nExamples cited by EFF include:\n\nExamples considered \"similar to SOPA/PIPA\" by other analyses:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9040892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9040892", "title": "Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001", "text": "Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001\n\nThe Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001, is a statute passed by the Victorian Parliament during the Premiership of Steve Bracks. The Act makes behavior that incites or encourages hatred, serious contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group of people because of their race and/or religion unlawful in Victoria\n\nThe Act criminalises racist graffiti, racist posters, racist stickers, racist comments made in a publication, including the Internet and email, statements at a meeting or at a public rally. The Act explicitly criminalises public behavior – not personal beliefs.\n\nIn a landmark ruling on 17 December 2004, a VCAT tribunal ruled that Danny Nalliah, Daniel Scot and Catch the Fire Ministries had breached the law. The pair stood accused of making fun of Muslim beliefs and conduct that was \"hostile, demeaning and derogatory of all Muslim people, their god, Allah, the prophet Muhammad and in general Muslim religious beliefs and practices\". Nalliah publicly condemned the verdict and declared his intention to continue fighting the case, potentially as far as the High Court of Australia. \"The Age\" newspaper quoted him as stating, \"We may have lost the battle, but the war is not over. The law has to be removed, there is no question.\"\n\nThe matter was eventually resolved without a VCAT hearing after mediation between the two parties. On 22 June 2007 VCAT published a statement agreed to by both parties which affirmed everyone's rights to \"robustly debate religion including the right to criticise the religious belief of another, in a free, open and democratic society\".\n\nIn September 2017 three prominent members of the far-right United Patriots Front; Blair Cottrell, Neil Erikson and Chris Shortis, were charged with serious religious vilification, among other offenses. In September that same year they were convicted for inciting serious contempt of Muslims, each were fined $2,000.\n\nFormer state shadow Attorney general Andrew McIntosh announced prior to the 2006 election that the Liberal Party would repeal the religious section of the \"fundamentally flawed\" Act. \n\nIn January 2006, nineteen Christian leaders from Melbourne's largest churches wrote to the Premier requesting the removal of the civil provisions in the act, claiming that aspects of the religious vilification law undermines multiculturalism. \n\nIndependent MP Russell Savage, whose support helped Bracks form Government in 1999, described the act as \"the worst legislation he had ever seen passed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23632842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23632842", "title": "Rainwater Hog", "text": "Rainwater Hog\n\nRainwater HOG is a modular rainwater storage tank which can be used horizontally or vertically for rainwater harvesting, emergency water storage, and post-filter greywater storage. Rainwater HOG was named a USA Top-10 Green Building Product in 2008 and won a Spark Design Award and two additional sustainable product awards, a California Home & Design award and a Green Log Award in 2009.\n\nThe Rainwater HOG was designed by the award-winning architectural innovator Sally Dominguez for use in tight spaces and is sized to allow designers and engineers to use the stored water as effective thermal mass inside a structure.\n\nRainwater HOG modules were used by David Gottfried, founder of the U.S. Green Building Council, to achieve the USA's first LEED Platinum Home Remodel. Gottfried used HOGs to store rainwater for flushing ultra-low-flush toilets, and additional HOGs to store filtered Greywater for use on the non-edible portion of the landscape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2782814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2782814", "title": "Regulatory agency", "text": "Regulatory agency\n\nA regulatory agency (also regulatory authority, regulatory body or regulator) is a public authority or government agency responsible for exercising autonomous authority over some area of human activity in a regulatory or supervisory capacity. An independent regulatory agency is a regulatory agency that is independent from other branches or arms of the government.\n\nRegulatory authorities are commonly set up to enforce safety and standards, and/or to protect consumers in markets where there is a lack of effective competition or the potential for the undue exercise of market power. Examples of regulatory agencies that enforce standards include the Food and Drug Administration in the United States and the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency in the United Kingdom; and, in the case of economic regulation, the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets and the Telecom Regulatory Authority in India.\n\nRegulatory agencies are typically a part of the executive branch of the government and have statutory authority to perform their functions with oversight from the legislative branch. Their actions are generally open to legal review. \n\nRegulatory agencies deal in the areas of administrative law, regulatory law, secondary legislation, and rulemaking (codifying and enforcing rules and regulations and imposing supervision or oversight for the benefit of the public at large). The existence of independent regulatory agencies is justified by the complexity of certain regulatory and supervisory tasks, and the drawbacks of political interference. Some independent regulatory agencies perform investigations or audits, and other may fine the relevant parties and order certain measures. In a number of cases, in order for a company or organization to enter an industry it must obtain a license to operate from the sector regulator. This license will set out the conditions by which the companies or organizations operating within the industry must abide.\n\nIn some instances, regulatory bodies have powers to require that companies or organizations operating within a particular industry adhere to certain standards or deliver a set of outputs \"ex ante\". This type of regulation is common in the provision of public utilities which are subject to economic regulation. Regulatory bodies in this area will:\n\n\nIn most cases, regulatory agencies have powers to the use some of the following \"ex post\" mechanisms:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27412212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27412212", "title": "Sit-lie ordinance", "text": "Sit-lie ordinance\n\nIn the United States, a sit-lie ordinance (also sometimes referred to as sit-lie law) is a municipal ordinance which prohibits sitting or lying on the sidewalk or in other public spaces.\n\nProponents argue that such ordinances are useful or necessary in keeping sidewalks free from obstruction, particularly for use by mobility-impaired persons, and that they are a useful tool in fighting undesirable behavior, while opponents argue that they are instead veiled attacks on vagrants and homeless persons, and, further, unnecessary and overbroad.\n\nSit-lie ordinances are most notably found in West Coast cities, since the 2000s, with Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon, and several San Francisco Bay Area cities – Santa Cruz, Palo Alto, and San Francisco itself – having passed such ordinances.\n\nIn a 2009 survey of 235 US cities, 30% prohibited sitting or lying in some public places.\n\nIn some cases sit-lie ordinances, such as in Portland, are part of a package of reforms, also providing services for vagrants, such as restrooms, benches, and day shelters, and in this context are supported as a tool to ensure that such resources are used.\n\nCritics argue that such ordinances are a criminalization of homelessness, a criminalization of ordinary activities – hence prone to selective enforcement – and unnecessary, since existing, narrowly targeted laws ban the undesirable activities such as aggressive begging, obstruction of sidewalks, loitering, and aggressive pursuit.\n\nCertain aspects of some ordinances have been ruled overbroad; Portland's ordinance prohibited having possessions more than two feet from one's person, which was ruled unconstitutional by Judge Michael McShane in 2009, stating that he \"found that an ordinary person would not understand from the statute that mundane and everyday behavior would be prohibited by the law,\" and that \"the ordinance encourages arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.\"\n\nPortland passed multiple sit-lie and anti-camping ordinances in the 2000s, which have all either been struck down or expired, and was working on related ordinances that would allow sitting and lying.\n\nPortland's most recent ordinance was enacted in 2007. After repeated legal challenges, the police ceased enforcing it and the law's sunset clause expired.\n\nIn San Francisco, a sit-lie ordinance was proposed in March 2010 by Mayor Gavin Newsom, but generated strong opposition under the banners of \"Sidewalks Are for People\" and \"Stand Against Sit/Lie\". It was placed on the November general election ballot as \"Proposition L,\" and was approved by voters on November 2, 2010. \n\nBased on the sit/lie ordinance, infractions peaked at 1,011 in 2013, but since that time they have steadily declined, falling to 114 in 2017, while misdemeanors tracked by SFPD spiked at 195 in 2016, then similarly declined by almost half the next year. SFPD's current policy focuses on steering homeless people to shelters, rather than arresting them (which is basically giving the suspect a ticket and a court date). \n\nIn November 2012, voters in Berkeley decided not to make it a crime to sit on sidewalks in the city's commercial districts between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. \n\nIn Honolulu, a sit-lie ordinance was signed into law in December 2014 by Mayor Kirk Caldwell. The initial ordinance applied to a number of pedestrian malls in the downtown and Chinatown neighborhoods and contains and except for \"people who are experiencing medical emergencies, engaged in expressive activity, working in maintenance or construction, or waiting in line unless their possessions impede the flow of pedestrian traffic.\" An extension to the sit-lie ban was vetoed later by Caldwell on May 21, 2015. One 2015 study by graduate students at the University of Hawaii Department of Urban and Regional Planning surveyed 70 homeless individuals. Of the 70 interviewed, 54% reported having identification documents confiscated by the state. This would require them to pay a $200 retrieval fee unless they were able to obtain a fee waiver. The study authors concluded that the ordinance had little effect on homelessness.\n\nIn 2017, as part of a city campaign to clear city sidewalks of homeless encampments, Mayor Caldwell signed an expansion of the sit-lie ordinance to an additional 13 areas of Honolulu County (Oahu).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12489066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12489066", "title": "Special pleader", "text": "Special pleader\n\nA special pleader was a historical legal occupation. The practitioner, or \"special pleader\" in English law specialised in drafting \"pleadings\", in modern terminology statements of case.\n\nUp to the 19th century, there were many rules, technicalities and difficulties in drafting pleadings and claims and defences could be dismissed for trivial errors. Some practitioners made it their business to frame pleadings, rather than to appear in court or to write legal opinions, and were called special pleaders. They were not necessarily barristers, but might be licensed to practise under the bar. At one time it was usual to practise for a time as a special pleader before being called to the bar. The system had largely fallen into disuse as a speciality by the beginning of the 20th century, although it continues to exist in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "43966794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43966794", "title": "Trademark Clearinghouse", "text": "Trademark Clearinghouse\n\nThe Trademark Clearinghouse is a database of validated and registered trademarks established by ICANN to assist trademark holders prevent infringing behavior in the Domain Name System. In combination with the Uniform Rapid Suspension System (URS), it is the second significant attempt by ICANN to handle the \"Trademark Dilemma\". The first attempt was the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy.\n\nThe Trademark Clearinghouse is not a trademark office. Rights holders who register their marks with the Trademark Clearinghouse must still register with their country's trademark office. The primary purpose of the Trademark Clearinghouse is to maintain a global database of verified trademarks for the Domain Name System.\n\nThe Trademark Clearinghouse is strictly for second-level domain names. Other mechanisms exist to protect trademark in the new gTLDs themselves. All new gTLD registries are required to use the Trademark Clearinghouse and URS for protection of Second-level domains.\n\nOne of the initial tasks of ICANN when it was formed was to deal with the so-called \"Trademark Dilemma\", which is determining the appropriate balance of rights between domain name holders and trademark owners. So in December 1999 ICANN launched the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy. Starting in 2008 ICANN began a new program to launch many more new Generic top-level domains. As part of this program ICANN envisioned a replacement program for the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy.\n\nOn March 6, 2009 ICANN commissioned 18 intellectual property experts from around the world entitled the Implementation Recommendation Team (IRT). They produced a report on May 29, 2009 with numerous recommendations to protect intellectual property rights holders. Most importantly, the report recommended an Intellectual Property Clearinghouse be created in concert with a Uniform Rapid Suspension System (URS).\n\nThe recommendation of the Intellectual Property Clearinghouse became the basis for the Trademark Clearinghouse and together with the URS eventually replaced the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy.\n\nOn May 28, 2010 ICANN published the Trademark Clearinghouse Proposal. The proposal emerged from an ICANN meeting held in Nairobi between the 7th and 12 March 2010. In the proposal both the Trademark Clearinghouse and the Universal Rapid Suspension program were proposed as possible replacements for the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy.\n\nIn November 2012 ICANN organized meetings in Los Angeles and Brussels to consider the implementation of the Trademark Clearinghouse for new top level domains. The outcome of these meetings was a straw man proposal for the Trademark Clearinghouse.\n\nIn March 2013 the Trademark Clearinghouse launched.\n\nThe new gTLD program initially faced heavy criticism from many brand owners. Specifically, the Association of National Advertisers created an organization called Coalition for Responsible Internet Domain Oversight (CRIDO) and began lobbying ICANN to halt the new gTLD rollout. The brand owners saw the creation of more gTLDs as a further cost to protect their trademarks from cybersquatting. They wanted strong trademark protections built into the new gTLD program.\n\nMilton Mueller, a professor at Syracuse University and frequent critic of ICANN, argues that the creation of the Trademark Clearinghouse was entirely hijacked by the advertising and intellectual property stakeholders, primarily by groups like the Association of National Advertisers (ANA). He argues that ICANN staff ignored its established bottom up processes when it did not suit them, and instead implemented the straw man proposal against the wishes of the Generic Names Supporting Organization (GNSO), Noncommercial Stakeholders Group (NCSG), and numerous other stakeholders.\n\nDNS news site DomainIncite.com has also been critical of the Trademark Clearinghouse development process.\n\nMany non-commercial observers have criticised ICANN for the way in which the Trademark Clearinghouse was developed. Most of this criticism has stemmed from a lack of openness concerning the proceedings at the Los Angeles and Brussels meetings. In response to this criticism ICANN's Ombudsman opened a probe into the closed door nature of these meetings in December 2012.\n\nRobin Gross, chair of ICANN's Noncommercial Stakeholders Group (NCSG) claimed that the NCSG was largely ignored during the proceedings, while the Business Constituency and Intellectual Property Constituency were overly represented. Using ICANN's Documentary Information Disclosure Program (DIDP) process, ICANN's version of a FOIA request, the NCSG requested all information concerning the Los Angeles and Brussels meetings. In response, the NCSG received no new information\n\nThe NCSG criticised the Brussels meeting immediately prior to it. In response, Fadi Chehade, CEO of ICANN, explained the purpose of the meeting in Brussels as simply an informal white board brainstorming session. After the meeting Chehade wrote a blog post detailing what happened at the Brussels meeting.\n\nOn June 25, 2014, ICANN's Governmental Advisory Committee (GAC) issued a comminuque entitled, \"Protection of Red Cross / Red Crescent Names\". The communique exempted the 'terms and names associated with the Red Cross and Red Crescent' from trademark protection while still affording them protected status. The communique advised that the names not be subject to policy considerations relating to trademark, because they cannot receive adequate treatment under trademark law. Instead the permanent protection of these names should be confirmed.\n\nIn response, ICANN's Generic Names Supporting Organization (GNSO) suggested the names simply be added to the Trademark Clearinghouse. The matter is still being debated.\n\nThe Trademark Clearinghouse is not a rights protection mechanism itself. Instead, additional mechanisms coupled with the Trademark Clearinghouse help trademark owners protect their rights. There are two special time periods where trademark holders are given special treatment, ongoing notification services, and the URS. There are also differentiated services offered by specific registries. These build on the Trademark Clearinghouse to afford special treatment to trademark holders with verified trademarks in the Trademark Clearinghouse.\n\nThe sunrise period is a time period immediately prior to the launching of a TLD. Trademark Clearinghouse registrants receive priority access to reserve domain names associated with their trademarks before general access. New gTLD registries are required to offer a sunrise period of at least 30 days.\n\nDuring the claims period registrants attempting to register a second-level domain name under a TLD which utilizes the Trademark Clearinghouse will receive a warning if the name matches an entry in the Trademark Clearinghouse. If the registrant registers the name anyway, the rights owner will receive a notification from the Trademark Claims system. The claims period is required to last at least 90 days after the initial launch of the new gTLD.\n\nRights holders with trademarks registered in the Trademark Clearinghouse can opt in to receive additional notifications after the claims period expires. Holders will be notified of exact matches to names they have registered in the Trademark Clearinghouse. This service is optional and free.\n\nDomain Protected Marks List (DPML) is a service offered by specific new gTLD registry operators based on the Trademark Clearinghouse. It is not a standard service offered to rights holders registered in the Trademark Clearinghouse, nor is it standardized by ICANN. Different registries will implement DPML differently as a means of marketplace differentiation. Typically registries will offer to defensively block registrations that are more than just exact matches.\n\nAs part of the new gTLD program ICANN developed an accompanying rights protection mechanism for trademark holders called the Uniform Rapid Suspension (URS). Work on the URS started in September 2012 with an RFI issued by ICANN. It was finalized in January 2014.\n\nThe URS is not meant to replace the Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy, but instead complement it. In contrast to the UDRP, the URS is meant as a lightweight, inexpensive, expedited arbitration process for resolving obvious trademark rights violations. Unlike the UDRP, successful URS claims only cause a domain name to be suspended and redirected, not seized. Also, the URS is not intended for use where facts are in question. URS decisions can take as little as one week to resolve.\n\nRegistries and registrars participating in the new gTLD program are required to implement the URS. In the context of the URS, they are called providers.\n\nEvery URS claim starts with a complaint filed by a trademark holder against a registrant of a domain name they believe to be infringing their trademark. The complainant must also pay a one time non-refundable fee of $375. Within two days of the complaint being filed an administrative review will be held by the URS provider.\n\nIf this review determines the complaint is in proper order the domain name will be locked, preventing changes to the DNS, and the allegedly offending registrant will be notified of the complaint. The registrant then has 14 calendar days to respond to the complaint before the complaint proceeds to default.\n\nAfter the complaint has been filed and either a response has been received or the complaint has entered default, a single examiner selected by the provider determines the outcome. The examiner should then examine the evidence and issue a verdict using a standard of clear and convincing evidence.\n\nThe examiner should find in favor of the complainant if; the registered domain name is identical or confusingly similar to a word mark, the complainant holds a valid and current national or regional registration of the mark in question, this mark is registered and validated in the Trademark Clearinghouse, the registrant has no legitimate right or interest to the domain name, and the domain name was registered and is being used in bad faith. All standards must be met for the examiner to find in favor of the complainant.\n\nIf the examiner determines that the domain name is non-infringing use, or a fair use, the complaint should be dismissed. However, the URS guidelines do not define \"fair use\", nor do they indicate which specific jurisdiction's definition of \"fair use\" should be used.\n\nIn October 2014 the domain names radisson.club and radissonblu.club were suspended using the URS. Saravanan Dhandapani, acting as the first examiner for the National Arbitration Forum (NAF) and the Asian Domain Name Dispute Resolution Centre (ADNDRC), determined these two domain names infringed on the trademark of Radisson hotels.\n\nAs of October 2014 registering a single trademark can cost between $95 and $150 for one year. Three year and five year registrations are also available at reduced cost, as are bulk discounts. In general registering a single mark for one year will always be the most expensive option, while registering multiple marks for longer periods will incur greater discount.\n\nRegistries pay a one time fee to register between $7,000 - $10,000.\n\nThe basic fee structure is intended for registering small numbers of marks. It is only available to actual trademark holders, and not trademark agents. No bulk discounts are available, but discounts are given for registering marks for longer periods.\n\n\nThe advanced fee structure is intended for registering large numbers of marks. It is available for trademark holders and agents, and requires the establishment of a prepayment account. Discounts are available when buying in bulk and when purchasing for longer periods.\n\nThe advanced fee structure uses a Loyalty program to encourage more trademark registrations. Registrants using it gain points for each registration. As more points are earned successive levels are reached, which decrease the cost of the next batch of registrations. In short, the more registrations a registrant makes, and the longer their duration, the cheaper they get.\n\nICANN has subcontracted out most of the functionality of the Trademark Clearinghouse to IBM and Deloitte. IBM handles the technical implementation, administration and support of the trademark database. Deloitte is responsible for authentication and validation of trademarks.\n\nOn March 25, 2013, the Trademark Clearinghouse claimed it had \"delivered over 500,000 Trademark Claims notices and prevented over 475,000 trademarked names from being registered.\"\n\nUptake on new gTLDs has been brisk, with 426 new gTLDs introduced to the Internet as of October 17, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "26368702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26368702", "title": "Trademark share", "text": "Trademark share\n\nTrademark share is a company's share of registered and unregistered trade marks in a particular industry or market segment. It is a key metric and one of many useful tools, when appropriately used, to understand how well positioned a company is to gain some competitive advantage (e.g. more profit or revenue, better ROI on ad campaigns, defend or increase market share) within an industry or market segment.\n\n"}
{"id": "8530253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530253", "title": "Wilson v. State", "text": "Wilson v. State\n\nWilson v. State, 652 S.E. 2d 501, 282 Ga. 520 (2007) was a Georgia court case brought about to appeal the aggravated child molestation conviction of Genarlow Wilson (born April 8, 1986 to Juanessa Bennett and Marlow Wilson).\n\nWilson was convicted of aggravated child molestation in 2005, after, at the age of 17, he had engaged in oral sex with a 15-year-old at a New Year's Eve party, an offense carrying a mandatory penalty of 10 years' imprisonment.\n\nAt the time of his conviction, provisions for similarity in age that allowed underage consent to be taken into account were only applicable to vaginal sex. Because the case involved oral sex, the consent of the girl was not at that time legally relevant.\n\nOn October 26, 2007, the Georgia State Supreme Court, while not overturning the conviction itself, ruled that Wilson's sentence was disproportionate. He was released later that day, after serving over 4 years of his 10-year prison sentence in the Al Burruss Correctional Training Center in Forsyth, Georgia.\n\nDuring a private New Year's Eve party that Wilson attended in a hotel room in 2003, when Wilson was 17 years old, multiple sex acts took place. Wilson engaged in oral sex with a 15-year-old girl, and the girl stated consistently that the act was consensual.\n\nAdditionally, Wilson engaged in sex with a 17-year-old girl, who woke up the next morning naked and disoriented and claimed to have been raped, which triggered an investigation. Police found condoms and evidence of drinking, as well as a video camera with footage of Wilson engaging in the sex acts, in the motel room used for the party. In the video, the 17-year-old girl appeared sleepy or intoxicated during the sex act but did not ask Wilson to stop.\n\nThe then 15-year-old girl has repeatedly stated that the act of oral sex was consensual, though she legally could not consent. The jury acquitted Wilson of the rape charge, but as the age of consent in Georgia is 16, they voted to convict him of aggravated child molestation for the oral sex incident. Some jury members later complained they had not understood the verdict would result in a 10-year minimum sentence, plus one year on probation.\n\nWilson received the 10-year sentence following a refusal to enter into a proposed plea bargain, stating his adamant belief that \"It's all about doing what's right [...] And what's right is right, and what's wrong is wrong. And I'm just standing up for what I believe in.\" His decision to reject the plea agreement, as well as his continued fight to overturn his conviction, takes into account that sex offenders in Georgia must register themselves and are subject to penalty laws for life, and that the law was not intended to penalize teenage partners. As the law stands, Wilson would not even be able to return to his own family after an early release, as he has an 8-year-old sister Jiaya Bennett with whom he would be forbidden contact. The other young males involved (including one charged for the same oral sex acts as Wilson) accepted plea bargains with the possibility of parole; they are required to register as convicted sex offenders. Wilson had been offered a plea bargain for a five-year sentence with the possibility of parole before the trial but rejected the offer. After the jury had returned the guilty verdict, the prosecutor offered the same 5-year plea bargain again, and Wilson refused again. Another young man involved in the case had accepted a similar 5-year plea bargain and was paroled after two years.\n\nIn part because of the publicity surrounding this case, the law under which Wilson was convicted was changed after his conviction; the act would now be treated as a misdemeanor with a maximum sentence of one year in prison, and no sex offender registration. While Wilson's attorneys argued that such a change in the law should reverse his conviction, the Legislature specifically prohibited the bill from being applied retroactively.\n\nA bipartisan group of legislators introduced a bill in the 2007 Georgia legislative session that would allow Wilson's sentence to be reduced by the courts. This session was adjourned in April, before the bill could be considered. Several legislators have subsequently called for a rare special session of the Legislature to reconsider the bill.\n\nAfter the trial ended, the District Attorney's office received numerous open record requests for the videotape. David McDade inquired of the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of Georgia whether the videotape had to be released under the Open Records Act. The Council concluded that \"if no one has filed for a protection order ... claiming that disclosure of the video tape would invade individual privacy, we can find no reason why disclosure of the video tape is not required under ... the Open Records Act.\" Ignoring the fact that it was the Legislature that wrote the Open Records Law (and which caused the initial controversy by refusing to apply the \"Romeo and Juliet\" clause retroactively), Georgia State Sen. Emanuel Jones said he would introduce legislation to block district attorneys from handing over photographic images in sex cases. \"'I'm going to call it the David McDade Act,' Jones said. 'Sometimes we have to protect our kids from district attorneys.'\" Because the participants shown having sex in the video were under 18, the videotape constitutes child pornography under federal law. The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act prohibits prosecutors from allowing defendants in criminal proceedings to possess a copy of any evidence that constitutes child pornography, even if the purpose is to mount a defense against the charge. Under this law, Wilson and his defense team are prohibited from having a copy of the videotape that prosecutor McDade has distributed to anyone else who has requested it.\n\nThe case was appealed to the Georgia Supreme Court; the court twice refused to hear the case, with the presiding judge delivering an opinion that said she was \"very sympathetic to Wilson's argument\" but that she was bound by the Legislature's decision to make the law not apply retroactively.\n\nThe governor does not have pardon power in Georgia, but the prosecutor has the power to set aside the verdict. The prosecutor Eddie Barker, apparently waiting for an admission of guilt, has said \"the one person who can change things at this point is Genarlow. The ball's in his court.\"\n\nIn response to a petition of \"habeas corpus\" filed by Wilson's attorneys, the Superior Court of Monroe County in the State of Georgia reduced Wilson's charge to misdemeanor aggravated child molestation, ordered that his name not be placed on the sex-offender registry, and resentenced him to 12 months and with credit for time served. Stated Judge Thomas Wilson (no relation), \"The fact that Genarlow Wilson has spent two years in prison for what is now classified as a misdemeanor, and without assistance from this Court, will spend eight more years in prison, is a grave miscarriage of justice.\"\n\nGeorgia's Attorney General Thurbert Baker has appealed Judge Wilson's decision, staying Genarlow Wilson's release. Baker maintains the judge did not have the authority to overturn the conviction and says there is a plea bargain offer on the table.\n\nAccording to Baker, the plea deal could allow Wilson to be eligible for First Offender Treatment, which would mean that he would not have a criminal record nor would he be subject to registering on the sex offender registry once his sentence had been completed. It could also result in Wilson receiving a reduced sentence, possibly leading to his release based upon time already served. Wilson's lawyer, B.J. Bernstein, would not accept the proposed deal because it would require her client to plead guilty to a felony with a fifteen-year sentence, forcing him to register as a sexual offender for up to fifteen years.\n\nFollowing the grant of \"habeas\" and Baker's appeal, Bernstein urged prosecutors to allow her client to be set free on bond until the appeal could be heard. Whitney Tilson, a New York City investment manager, and others offered to finance a million dollar bond on Wilson's behalf, but District Attorney McDade noted that Wilson's crime, aggravated child molestation, prevented him from being released on bond. Douglas County Superior Court Judge David Emerson agreed with McDade and canceled a scheduled bond hearing. Bernstein announced that she would file an appeal.\n\nOn July 9, 2007, the Georgia State Supreme Court set a hearing for Genarlow Wilson's appeal for July 20, 2007, more than two months earlier than previously scheduled. The first motion was an appeal by the State Attorney General Baker of the Monroe County Superior Court judge's decision to reduce Wilson's felony conviction to a misdemeanor and release him. The second motion was brought by Wilson's attorneys to have him released on bond while the appeals are heard which the Douglas County Superior Court judge denied.\n\nOn October 26, 2007, the Georgia State Supreme Court ruled 4–3 that Wilson's sentence was cruel and unusual, and ordered him released. He was released from prison in the late afternoon that day. The majority opinion said that the new law (which made oral sex between minors a misdemeanor instead of a felony) \"represent a seismic shift in the legislature's view of the gravity of oral sex between two willing teenage participants\" and \"reflect a decision by the people of this State that the severe felony punishment and sex offender registration imposed on Wilson make no measurable contribution to acceptable goals of punishment. ... Although society has a significant interest in protecting children from premature sexual activity, we must acknowledge that Wilson's crime does not rise to the level of culpability of adults who prey on children and that, for the law to punish Wilson as it would an adult, with the extraordinarily harsh punishment of ten years in prison without the possibility of probation or parole, appears to be grossly disproportionate to his crime.\"\n\nThe dissenting opinion said that the legislators had explicitly made the law non-retroactive and, therefore, should not be applied to Wilson. The majority opinion claimed, however, that it did not apply the law retroactively but instead that the punishment was unconstitutionally cruel and unusual. The dissenters argued that the precedents the majority relied upon involved legislation with no prohibitions against retroactivity.\n\nAttorney General Baker said he would not appeal the ruling.\n\nOn December 21, 2006, \"The New York Times\" published an editorial condemning the Georgia Supreme Court's original refusal to hear Wilson's appeal, noting that Wilson was not a sexual predator, and that his behavior would have only been a misdemeanor if he had actually had sex with the girl, instead of having had oral sex (due to a loophole in the applicable law's provision intended to prevent exactly this kind of dubious conviction).\n\nOral sex has long had a special criminal status in Georgia law; until 1998, oral sex even between husband and wife was punishable with up to 20 years in prison. The United States Supreme Court, in 1986, originally upheld Georgia's anti-sodomy law (which covered both oral sex and anal sex) as constitutional even when applied to criminalize two consenting adults in the privacy of their bedroom (\"Bowers v. Hardwick\", 478 U.S. 176). Twelve years later, Georgia's Supreme Court would, however, find that the same law upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court was unconstitutional on state constitutional grounds, at least as applied to oral sex with persons over the age of consent (\"Powell v. Georgia\", S98A0755, 270 Ga. 327, 510 S.E. 2d 18 (1998)).\n\nOn April 30, 2007, \"The New York Times\" published another editorial noting that Georgia's legislature had closed the loophole in the law and that if Wilson were tried today he would now be facing only misdemeanor charges for the same act. However, the State Senate adjourned for the year without taking up a bill allowing judges to review previous cases like Wilson's and Wilson continued to serve a mandatory 10-year sentence. The \"Times\" also noted that Wilson's attorneys had applied for a writ of \"habeas corpus\" with the U.S. Supreme Court and it urged the Court to grant it. In the same editorial, the \"Times\" lambasted prosecuting district attorney David McDade for continuing to publicly charge that Wilson participated in gang-raping a different 17-year-old girl, even though he was acquitted of charges in that case.\n\nOn May 24, 2007, former US president Jimmy Carter wrote a letter to state attorney-general Thurbert Baker (who is also African-American) in which he questioned whether Wilson's race had played a role in his treatment. He wrote: \"The racial dimension of the case is likewise hard to ignore and perhaps unfortunately has had an impact on the final outcome of the case,\" pointing out that white defendants have received lesser punishments for similar conduct.\n\nFollowing the June ruling in Monroe County, both Attorney General Baker and Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue expressed concern that other convicted child molesters might attempt similar legal tactics to get out of prison. While Baker called the Wilson sentence \"harsh\", he also noted that he had taken an oath to uphold state law.\n\nBlack leaders such as Rev. Joseph Lowery, Dr. Francys Johnson, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the Congressional Black Caucus have criticized Baker's appeal of the Monroe County ruling. Meanwhile, Rev. Markel Hutchins, a civil rights activist in Atlanta, has criticized them for not having all the facts and failing to stand up for the victims in the case. He also questioned the motivations of Wilson's attorney, Bernstein, and urged her to attempt to find a resolution in the case.\n\nOn Genarlow's behalf, the NAACP, led by Dr. Francys Johnson, also marched on Douglas County, Georgia, for the injustice done. There were many participants there, including the girl's mother who stated that she forgave Genarlow and was in favor of his release. The speakers targeted Douglas County judicial system and particularly David McDade for his unfair treatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1899496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1899496", "title": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation", "text": "Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation\n\nThe Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation was adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1999 as ILO Recommendation No 190. The provisions of this Recommendation supplement those of the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention (Convention No 182, referred to below as ‘the Convention’) and should be applied in conjunction with them. This article should be read together with that on the Convention.\n\nThe provisions of the Recommendation include the following:\n"}
