{"id": "334986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334986", "title": "Allopatric speciation", "text": "Allopatric speciation\n\nAllopatric speciation (from Ancient Greek ἄλλος, \"allos\", meaning \"other\", and πατρίς, \"patris\", \"fatherland\"), also referred to as geographic speciation, vicariant speciation, or its earlier name, the dumbbell model, is a mode of speciation that occurs when biological populations of the same species become isolated from each other to an extent that prevents or interferes with gene flow.\n\nVarious geographic changes can arise such as the movement of continents, and the formation of mountains, islands, bodies of water, or glaciers. Human activity such as agriculture or developments can also change the distribution of species populations. These factors can substantially alter a region's geography, resulting in the separation of a species population into isolated subpopulations. The vicariant populations then undergo genetic changes as they become subjected to different selective pressures, experience genetic drift, and accumulate different mutations in the separated populations gene pools. The barriers prevent the exchange of genetic information between the two populations leading to reproductive isolation. If the two populations come into contact they will be unable to reproduce—effectively speciating. Other isolating factors such as population dispersal leading to emigration can cause speciation (for instance, the dispersal and isolation of a species on an oceanic island) and is considered a special case of allopatric speciation called peripatric speciation.\n\nAllopatric speciation is typically subdivided into two major models: vicariance and peripatric. Both models differ from one another by virtue of their population sizes and geographic isolating mechanisms. The terms allopatry and vicariance are often used in biogeography to describe the relationship between organisms whose ranges do not significantly overlap but are immediately adjacent to each other—they do not occur together or only occur within in a narrow zone of contact. Historically, the language used to refer to modes of speciation directly reflected biogeographical distributions. As such, allopatry is a geographical distribution opposed to sympatry (speciation within the same area). Furthermore, the terms allopatric, vicariant, and geographical speciation are often used interchangeably in the scientific literature. This article will follow a similar theme, with the exception of special cases such as peripatric, centrifugal, among others.\n\nObservation of nature creates difficulties in witnessing allopatric speciation from \"start-to-finish\" as it operates as a dynamic process. From this arises a host of various issues in defining species, defining isolating barriers, measuring reproductive isolation, among others. Nevertheless, verbal and mathematical models, laboratory experiments, and empirical evidence overwhelmingly supports the occurrence of allopatric speciation in nature. Mathematical modeling of the genetic basis of reproductive isolation supports the plausibility of allopatric speciation; whereas laboratory experiments of \"Drosophila\" and other animal and plant species have confirmed that reproductive isolation evolves as a byproduct of natural selection.\n\nSpeciation by vicariance is widely regarded as the most common form of speciation; and is the primary model of allopatric speciation. Vicariance is a process by which the geographical range of an individual taxon, or a whole biota, is split into discontinuous populations (disjunct distributions) by the formation of an extrinsic barrier to the exchange of genes: that is, a barrier arising externally to a species. These extrinsic barriers often arise from various geologic-caused, topographic changes such as: the formation of mountains (orogeny); the formation of rivers or bodies of water; glaciation; the formation or elimination of land bridges; the movement of continents over time (by tectonic plates); or island formation, including sky islands. These can change the distribution of species populations. The emergence of suitable or unsuitable habitat configurations may arise from these changes and can originate by changes in climate or even large scale human activities (for example, agricultural, civil engineering developments, and habitat fragmentation). Among others, these many factors can alter a regions geography in substantial ways, resulting in the separation of a species population into isolated subpopulations. The vicariant populations then undergo genotypic or phenotypic divergence as: (a) they become subjected to different selective pressures, (b) they independently undergo genetic drift, and (c) different mutations arise in the gene pools of the populations. The extrinsic barriers prevent the exchange of genetic information between the two populations, inevitably leading to differentiation due to the ecologically different habitats they experience; selective pressure then invariably leads to complete reproductive isolation. Furthermore, a species' proclivity to remain in its ecological niche (see phylogenetic niche conservatism) through changing environmental conditions may also play a role in isolating populations from one another, driving the evolution of new lineages.\n\nAllopatric speciation can be represented as the extreme on a gene flow continuum. As such, the level of gene flow between populations in allopatry would be formula_1, where formula_2 equals the rate of gene exchange. In sympatry formula_3, while in parapatric speciation, formula_4 represents the entire continuum, though not all scientists accept this geographic mode classification scheme, which does not necessarily reflect the complexity of speciation. Allopatry is often regarded as the default or \"null\" model of speciation, but this too is debated.\n\nReproductive isolation acts as the primary mechanism driving genetic divergence in allopatry and can be amplified by divergent selection. Pre-zygotic and post-zygotic isolation are often the most cited mechanisms for allopatric speciation, and as such, it is difficult to determine which form evolved first in an allopatric speciation event. Pre-zygotic simply implies the presence of a barrier prior to any act of fertilization (such as an environmental barrier dividing two populations), while post-zygotic implies the prevention of successful inter-population crossing after fertilization (such as the production of an infertile hybrid). Since species pairs who diverged in allopatry often exhibit pre- and post-zygotic isolation mechanisms, investigation of the earliest stages in the life cycle of the species can indicate whether or not divergence occurred due to a pre-zygotic or post-zygotic factor. However, establishing the specific mechanism may not be accurate, as a species pair continually diverges over time. For example, if a plant experiences a chromosome duplication event, reproduction will occur, but sterile hybrids will result—functioning as a form of post-zygotic isolation. Subsequently, the newly formed species pair may experience pre-zygotic barriers to reproduction as selection, acting on each species independently, will ultimately lead to genetic changes making hybrids impossible. From the researchers perspective, the current isolating mechanism may not reflect the past isolating mechanism.\n\nReinforcement has been a contentious factor in speciation. It is more often invoked in sympatric speciation studies, as it requires gene flow between two populations. However, reinforcement may also play a role in allopatric speciation, whereby the reproductive barrier is removed, reuniting the two previously isolated populations. Upon secondary contact, individuals reproduce, creating low-fitness hybrids. Traits of the hybrids drive individuals to discriminate in mate choice, by which pre-zygotic isolation increases between the populations. Some arguments have been put forth that suggest the hybrids themselves can possibly become their own species: known as hybrid speciation. Reinforcement can play a role in all geographic modes (and other non-geographic modes) of speciation as long as gene flow is present and viable hybrids can be formed. The production of inviable hybrids is a form of reproductive character displacement, under which most definitions is the completion of a speciation event.\n\nResearch has well established the fact that interspecific mate discrimination occurs to a greater extent between sympatric populations than it does in purely allopatric populations; however, other factors have been proposed to account for the observed patterns. Reinforcement in allopatry has been shown to occur in nature (evidence for speciation by reinforcement), albeit with less frequency than a classic allopatric speciation event. A major difficulty arises when interpreting reinforcement's role in allopatric speciation, as current phylogenetic patterns may suggest past gene flow. This masks possible initial divergence in allopatry and can indicate a \"mixed-mode\" speciation event—exhibiting both allopatric and sympatric speciation processes.\n\nDeveloped in the context of the genetic basis of reproductive isolation, mathematical scenarios model both prezygotic and postzygotic isolation with respect to the effects of genetic drift, selection, sexual selection, or various combinations of the three. Masatoshi Nei and colleagues were the first to develop a neutral, stochastic model of speciation by genetic drift alone. Both selection and drift can lead to postzygotic isolation, supporting the fact that two geographically separated populations can evolve reproductive isolation—sometimes occurring rapidly. Fisherian sexual selection can also lead to reproductive isolation if there are minor variations in selective pressures (such as predation risks or habitat differences) among each population. (See the Further reading section below).\n\nMathematical models concerning reproductive isolation-by distance have shown that populations can experience increasing reproductive isolation that correlates directly with physical, geographical distance. This has been exemplified in models of ring species; however, it has been argued that ring species are a special case, representing reproductive isolation-by distance, and demonstrate parapatric speciation instead—as parapatric speciation represents speciation occurring along a cline.\n\nVarious alternative models have been developed concerning allopatric speciation. Special cases of vicariant speciation have been studied in great detail, one of which is peripatric speciation, whereby a small subset of a species population becomes isolated geographically; and centrifugal speciation, an alternative model of peripatric speciation concerning expansion and contraction of a species range. Other minor allopatric models have also been developed are discussed below.\n\nPeripatric speciation is a mode of speciation in which a new species is formed from an isolated peripheral population. If a small population of a species becomes isolated (\"e.g.\" a population of birds on an oceanic island), selection can act on the population independent of the parent population. Given both geographic separation and enough time, speciation can result as a byproduct. It can be distinguished from allopatric speciation by three important features: 1) the size of the isolated population, 2) the strong selection imposed by the dispersal and colonization into novel environments, and 3) the potential effects of genetic drift on small populations. However, it can often be difficult for researchers to determine if peripatric speciation occurred as vicariant explanations can be invoked due to the fact that both models posit the absence of gene flow between the populations. The size of the isolated population is important because individuals colonizing a new habitat likely contain only a small sample of the genetic variation of the original population. This promotes divergence due to strong selective pressures, leading to the rapid fixation of an allele within the descendant population. This gives rise to the potential for genetic incompatibilities to evolve. These incompatibilities cause reproductive isolation, giving rise to rapid speciation events. Models of peripatry are supported mostly by species distribution patterns in nature. Oceanic islands and archipelagos provide the strongest empirical evidence that peripatric speciation occurs.\n\nCentrifugal speciation is a variant, alternative model of peripatric speciation. This model contrasts with peripatric speciation by virtue of the origin of the genetic novelty that leads to reproductive isolation. When a population of a species experiences a period of geographic range expansion and contraction, it may leave small, fragmented, peripherally isolated populations behind. These isolated populations will contain samples of the genetic variation from the larger parent population. This variation leads to a higher likelihood of ecological niche specialization and the evolution of reproductive isolation. Centrifugal speciation has been largely ignored in the scientific literature. Nevertheless, a wealth of evidence has been put forth by researchers in support of the model, much of which has not yet been refuted. One example is the possible center of origin in the Indo-West Pacific.\n\nMicroallopatry refers to allopatric speciation occurring on a small geographic scale. Examples of microallopatric speciation in nature have been described. Rico and Turner found intralacustrine allopatric divergence of \"Pseudotropheus callainos\" (\"Maylandia callainos\") within Lake Malawi separated only by 35 meters. Gustave Paulay found evidence that species in the subfamily Cryptorhynchinae have microallopatrically speciated on Rapa and its surrounding islets. A sympatrically distributed triplet of diving beetle (\"Paroster\") species living in aquifers of Australia's Yilgarn region have likely speciated microallopatrically within a 3.5 km area. The term was originally proposed by Hobart M. Smith to describe a level of geographic resolution. A sympatric population may exist in low resolution, whereas viewed with a higher resolution (\"i.e.\" on a small, localized scale within the population) it is \"microallopatric\". Ben Fitzpatrick and colleagues contend that this original definition, \"is misleading because it confuses geographical and ecological concepts\".\n\nEcological speciation can occur allopatrically, sympatrically, or parapatrically; the only requirement being that it occurs as a result of adaptation to different ecological or micro-ecological conditions. Ecological allopatry is a reverse-ordered form of allopatric speciation in conjunction with reinforcement. First, divergent selection separates a non-allopatric population emerging from pre-zygotic barriers, from which genetic differences evolve due to the obstruction of complete gene flow. The terms allo-parapatric and allo-sympatric have been used to describe speciation scenarios where divergence occurs in allopatry but speciation occurs only upon secondary contact. These are effectively models of reinforcement or \"mixed-mode\" speciation events.\n\nAs allopatric speciation is widely accepted as a common mode of speciation, the scientific literature is abundant with studies documenting its existence. The biologist Ernst Mayr was the first to summarize the contemporary literature of the time in 1942 and 1963. Many of the examples he set forth remain conclusive; however, modern research supports geographic speciation with molecular phylogenetics—adding a level of robustness unavailable to early researchers. The most recent thorough treatment of allopatric speciation (and speciation research in general is Jerry Coyne and H. Allen Orr's 2004 publication \"Speciation\". They list six mainstream arguments that lend support to the concept of vicariant speciation:\n\nAllopatric speciation has resulted in many of the biogeographic and biodiversity patterns found on Earth: on islands, continents, and even among mountains.\n\nIslands are often home to species endemics—existing only on an island and nowhere else in the world—with nearly all taxa residing on isolated islands sharing common ancestry with a species on the nearest continent. Not without challenge, there is typically a correlation between island endemics and diversity; that is, that the greater the diversity (species richness) of an island, the greater the increase in endemism. Increased diversity effectively drives speciation. Furthermore, the number of endemics on an island is directly correlated with the relative isolation of the island and its area. In some cases, speciation on islands has occurred rapidly.\n\nDispersal and \"in situ\" speciation are the agents that explain the origins of the organisms in Hawaii. Various geographic modes of speciation have been studied extensively in Hawaiian biota, and in particular, angiosperms appear to have speciated predominately in allopatric and parapatric modes.\n\nIslands are not the only geographic locations that have endemic species. South America has been studied extensively with its areas of endemism representing assemblages of allopatrically distributed species groups. \"Charis\" butterflies are a primary example, confined to specific regions corresponding to phylogenies of other species of butterflies, amphibians, birds, marsupials, primates, reptiles, and rodents. The pattern indicates repeated vicariant speciation events among these groups. It is thought that rivers may play a role as the geographic barriers to \"Charis\", not unlike the river barrier hypothesis used to explain the high rates of diversity in the Amazon basin—though this hypothesis has been disputed. Dispersal-mediated allopatric speciation is also thought to be a significant driver of diversification throughout the Neotropics.\nPatterns of increased endemism at higher elevations on both islands and continents have been documented on a global level. As topographical elevation increases, species become isolated from one another; often constricted to graded zones. This isolation on \"mountain top islands\" creates barriers to gene flow, encouraging allopatric speciation, and generating the formation of endemic species. Mountain building (orogeny) is directly correlated with—and directly affects biodiversity. The formation of the Himalayan mountains and the Qinghai–Tibetan Plateau for example have driven the speciation and diversification of numerous plants and animals such as \"Lepisorus\" ferns; glyptosternoid fishes (Sisoridae); and the \"Rana chensinensis\" species complex. Uplift has also driven vicariant speciation in \"Macowania\" daisies in South Africa's Drakensberg mountains, along with \"Dendrocincla\" woodcreepers in the South American Andes. The Laramide orogeny during the Late Cretaceous even caused vicariant speciation and radiations of dinosaurs in North America.\n\nAdaptive radiations, like the Galapagos finches observed by Charles Darwin, is often a consequence of rapid allopatric speciation among populations. However, in the case of the finches of the Galapagos, among other island radiations such as the honeycreepers of Hawaii represent cases of limited geographic separation and were likely driven by ecological speciation.\n\nGeological evidence supports the final closure of the isthmus of Panama approximately 2.7 to 3.5 mya, with some evidence suggesting an earlier transient bridge existing between 13 to 15 mya. Recent evidence increasingly points towards an older and more complex emergence of the Isthmus, with fossil and extant species dispersal (part of the American biotic interchange) occurring in three major pulses, to and from North and South America. Further, the changes in terrestrial biotic distributions of both continents such as with \"Eciton\" army ants supports an earlier bridge or a series of bridges. Regardless of the exact timing of the isthmus closer, biologists can study the species on the Pacific and Caribbean sides in what has been called, \"one of the greatest natural experiments in evolution\". Additionally, as with most geologic events, the closure was unlikely to have occurred rapidly, but instead dynamically—a gradual shallowing of sea water over millions of years.\n\nStudies of snapping shrimp in the genus \"Alpheus\" have provided direct evidence of an allopatric speciation event, as phylogenetic reconstructions support the relationships of 15 pairs of sister species pairs of \"Alpheus\" on each side of the isthmus and molecular clock dating supports their separation between 3 and 15 million years ago. Recently diverged species reside in shallow mangrove waters while older diverged species live in deeper water, correlating with a gradual closure of the isthmus. Support for an allopatric divergence also comes from laboratory experiments on the species pairs showing nearly complete reproductive isolation.\n\nSimilar patterns of relatedness and distribution across the Pacific and Atlantic sides have been found in other species pairs such as:\n\nIce ages have played important roles in facilitating speciation among vertebrate species. This concept of refugia has been applied to numerous groups of species and their biogeographic distributions.\n\nGlaciation and subsequent retreat caused speciation in many boreal forest birds, such as with North American sapsuckers (Yellow-bellied, Red-naped, and Red-breasted); the warbler's in the genus \"Setophaga\" (\"S. townsendii\", \"S. occidentalis\", and \"S. virens\"), \"Oreothlypis\" (\"O. virginiae\", \"O. ridgwayi\", and \"O. ruficapilla\"), and \"Oporornis\" (\"O. tolmiei\" and \"O. philadelphia\" now classified in the genus \"Geothlypis\"); \"Fox sparrow's\" (sub species \"P. (i.) unalaschensis\", \"P. (i.) megarhyncha\", and \"P. (i.) schistacea\"); \"Vireo\" (\"V. plumbeus\", \"V. cassinii\", and \"V. solitarius\"); \"tyrant flycatcher's\" (\"E. occidentalis\" and \"E. difficilis\"); \"chickadee's\" (\"P. rufescens\" and \"P. hudsonicus\"); and \"thrush's\" (\"C. bicknelli\" and \"C. minimus\").\n\nAs a special case of allopatric speciation, peripatric speciation is often invoked for instances of isolation in glaciation refugia as small populations become isolated due to habitat fragmentation such as with North American red (\"Picea rubens\") and black (\"Picea mariana\") spruce or the prairie dogs \"Cynomys mexicanus\" and \"C. ludovicianus\".\n\nNumerous species pairs or species groups show abutting distribution patterns, that is, reside in geographically distinct regions next to each other. They often share borders, many of which contain hybrid zones. Some examples of abutting species and superspecies (an informal rank referring to a complex of closely related allopatrically distributed species, also called allospecies) include:\n\n\nIn birds, some areas are prone to high rates of superspecies formation (see speciation in birds) such as the 105 superspecies in Melanesia, comprising 66 percent of all bird species in the region. Patagonia is home to 17 superspecies of forest birds, while North America has 127 superspecies of both land and freshwater birds. Sub-Saharan Africa has 486 passerine birds grouped into 169 superspecies. Australia has numerous bird superspecies as well, with 34 percent of all bird species grouped into superspecies.\n\nExperiments on allopatric speciation are often complex and do not simply divide a species population into two. This is due to a host of defining parameters: measuring reproductive isolation, sample sizes (the number of matings conducted in reproductive isolation tests), bottlenecks, length of experiments, number of generations allowed, or insufficient genetic diversity. Various isolation indices have been developed to measure reproductive isolation (and are often employed in laboratory speciation studies) such as here (index formula_5 and index formula_6):\nformula_7\n\nformula_8\n\nHere, formula_9 and formula_10 represent the number of matings in heterogameticity where formula_11 and formula_12 represent homogametic matings. formula_9 and formula_11 is one population and formula_10 and formula_12 is the second population. A negative value of formula_5 denotes negative assortive mating, a positive value denotes positive assortive mating (i. e. expressing reproductive isolation), and a null value (of zero) means the populations are experiencing random mating.\n\nThe experimental evidence has solidly established the fact that reproductive isolation evolves as a by-product of selection. Reproductive isolation has been shown to arise from pleiotropy (\"i.e.\" indirect selection acting on genes that code for more than one trait)—what has been referred to as genetic hitchhiking. Limitations and controversies exist relating to whether laboratory experiments can accurately reflect the long-scale process of allopatric speciation that occurs in nature. Experiments often fall beneath 100 generations, far less than expected, as rates of speciation in nature are thought to be much larger. Furthermore, rates specifically concerning the evolution of reproductive isolation in \"Drosophila\" are significantly higher than what is practiced in laboratory settings. Using index \"Y\" presented previously, a survey of 25 allopatric speciation experiments (included in the table below) found that reproductive isolation was not as strong as typically maintained and that laboratory environments have not been well-suited for modeling allopatric speciation. Nevertheless, numerous experiments have shown pre-zygotic and post-zygotic isolation in vicariance, some in less than 100 generations.\n\nBelow is a non-exhaustive table of the laboratory experiments conducted on allopatric speciation. The first column indicates the species used in the referenced study, where the \"Trait\" column refers to the specific characteristic selected for or against in that species. The \"Generations\" column refers to the number of generations in each experiment performed. If more than one experiment was formed generations are separated by semicolons or dashes (given as a range). Some studies provide a duration in which the experiment was conducted. The \"Mode\" column indicates if the study modeled vicariant or peripatric speciation (this may not be explicitly. Direct selection refers to selection imposed to promote reproductive isolation whereas indirect selection implies isolation occurring as a pleiotropic byproduct of natural selection; whereas divergent selection implies deliberate selection of each allopatric population in opposite directions (\"e.g.\" one line with more bristles and the other line with less). Some studies performed experiments modeling or controlling for genetic drift. Reproductive isolation occurred pre-zygotically, post-zygotically, both, or not at all). It is important to note that many of the studies conducted contain multiple experiments within—a resolution of which this table does not reflect.\n\nEarly speciation research typically reflected geographic distributions and were thus termed geographic, semi-geographic, and non-geographic. Geographic speciation corresponds to today's usage of the term allopatric speciation, and in 1868, Moritz Wagner was the first to propose the concept of which he used the term \"Separationstheorie\". His idea was later interpreted by Ernst Mayr as a form of founder effect speciation as it focused primarily on small geographically isolated populations.\n\nEdward Bagnall Poulton, an evolutionary biologist and a strong proponent of the importance of natural selection, highlighted the role of geographic isolation in promoting speciation, in the process coining the term \"sympatric speciation\" in 1903.\n\nControversy exists as to whether Charles Darwin recognized a true geographical-based model of speciation in his publication of the \"Origin of Species\". In chapter 11, \"Geographical Distribution\", Darwin discusses geographic barriers to migration, stating for example that \"barriers of any kind, or obstacles to free migration, are related in a close and important manner to the differences between the productions of various regions [of the world]\". F. J. Sulloway contends that Darwin's position on speciation was \"misleading\" at the least and may have later misinformed Wagner and David Starr Jordan into believing that Darwin viewed sympatric speciation as the most important mode of speciation. Nevertheless, Darwin never fully accepted Wagner's concept of geographical speciation.\nDavid Starr Jordan played a significant role in promoting allopatric speciation in the early 20th century, providing a wealth of evidence from nature to support the theory. Much later, the biologist Ernst Mayr was the first to encapsulate the then contemporary literature in his 1942 publication \"Systematics and the Origin of Species, from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist\" and in his subsequent 1963 publication \"Animal Species and Evolution\". Like Jordan's works, they relied on direct observations of nature, documenting the occurrence of allopatric speciation, of which is widely accepted today. Prior to this research, Theodosius Dobzhansky published \"Genetics and the Origin of Species\" in 1937 where he formulated the genetic framework for how speciation could occur.\n\nOther scientists noted the existence of allopatrically distributed pairs of species in nature such as Joel Asaph Allen (who coined the term \"Jordan's Law\", whereby closely related, geographically isolated species are often found divided by a physical barrier) and Robert Greenleaf Leavitt; however, it is thought that Wagner, Karl Jordan, and David Starr Jordan played a large role in the formation of allopatric speciation as an evolutionary concept; where Mayr and Dobzhansky contributed to the formation of the modern evolutionary synthesis.\n\nThe late 20th century saw the development of mathematical models of allopatric speciation, leading to the clear theoretical plausibility that geographic isolation can result in the reproductive isolation of two populations.\n\nSince the 1940s, allopatric speciation has been accepted. Today, it is widely regarded as the most common form of speciation taking place in nature. However, this is not without controversy, as both parapatric and sympatric speciation are both considered tenable modes of speciation that occur in nature. Some researchers even consider there to be a bias in reporting of positive allopatric speciation events, and in one study reviewing 73 speciation papers published in 2009, only 30 percent that suggested allopatric speciation as the primary explanation for the patterns observed considered other modes of speciation as possible.\n\nContemporary research relies largely on multiple lines of evidence to determine the mode of a speciation event; that is, determining patterns of geographic distribution in conjunction with phylogenetic relatedness based on molecular techniques. This method was effectively introduced by John D. Lynch in 1986 and numerous researchers have employed it and similar methods, yielding enlightening results. Correlation of geographic distribution with phylogenetic data also spawned a sub-field of biogeography called vicariance biogeography developed by Joel Cracraft, James Brown, Mark V. Lomolino, among other biologists specializing in ecology and biogeography. Similarly, full analytical approaches have been proposed and applied to determine which speciation mode a species underwent in the past using various approaches or combinations thereof: species-level phylogenies, range overlaps, symmetry in range sizes between sister species pairs, and species movements within geographic ranges. Molecular clock dating methods are also often employed to accurately gauge divergence times that reflect the fossil or geological record (such as with the snapping shrimp separated by the closure of the Isthmus of Panama or speciation events within the genus \"Cyclamen\"). Other techniques used today have employed measures of gene flow between populations, ecological niche modelling (such as in the case of the Myrtle and Audubon's warblers or the environmentally-mediated speciation taking place among dendrobatid frogs in Ecuador), and statistical testing of monophyletic groups. Biotechnological advances have allowed for large scale, multi-locus genome comparisons (such as with the possible allopatric speciation event that occurred between ancestral humans and chimpanzees), linking species' evolutionary history with ecology and clarifying phylogenetic patterns.\n\nMathematical models of reproductive isolation\n"}
{"id": "8825185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8825185", "title": "American Geosciences Institute", "text": "American Geosciences Institute\n\nThe American Geosciences Institute (AGI) is a nonprofit federation of 51 geoscientific and professional organizations that represents geologists, geophysicists, and other earth scientists. The organization was founded in 1948. The name of the organization was changed from the American Geological Institute on October 1, 2011. The organization's offices are in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\n\"EARTH Magazine\", formerly known as \"Geotimes\", is AGI's monthly newsmagazine.\n\nSince 1966, AGI has produced GeoRef, a literature database for those studying the earth sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2714433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2714433", "title": "Auckland Energy Consumer Trust", "text": "Auckland Energy Consumer Trust\n\nAuckland Energy Consumer Trust (AECT), renamed Entrust in June 2016, is a trust for electricity consumers in Auckland, New Zealand. Formed in 1993 as sole owner of the original Mercury Energy Limited, it is now majority owner of electricity and gas distributor Vector Limited, a child of the original Mercury, the other child being the retailing division of Mercury Energy. The Trust will be wound up in 2073 (80 years after its formation) and its assets transferred to the local government authority or authorities in the Trust district (at present this would be Auckland Council). There have been calls for the Trust to be wound up sooner.\n\nAECT owns 75.1% of the shares in Vector, worth about $2 billion. It holds the shares on behalf of Vector's 300,000 customers and distributes dividends from Vector to its customers. The remaining 24.9% of Vector shares are traded on the NZX Main Board stock exchange.\n\nAs part of electricity industry reforms in 1993, the consumer-owned Auckland Electric Power Board became Mercury Energy Limited and AECT was set up to own it, keeping control in the hands of electricity consumers. Similar trusts were established elsewhere in the country. Mercury was the electricity distributor and retailer for Auckland, Manukau and Papakura. In 1998 the government split the electricity sector into distributors (lines companies) and retailers, and accordingly Mercury was split. The retail business was sold to Mighty River Power and the lines business being kept and renamed Vector Limited. AECT was the sole owner of Vector until 2005, when it allowed Vector to make a public float of 24.9% of its shares to raise capital to buy gas company NGC Holdings.\n\nThe trust is run by five trustees elected using the plurality-at-large method every three years in line with the requirements of the Trust Deed. Trustees are electricity customers who live in the Trust area.\n\nIn 2003 and again in 2006 four right-leaning Citizens & Ratepayers (C&R) candidates and one left-leaning Powerlynk candidate were elected.\n\nC&R won all five seats in 2009. Their candidates gained support from 36% to 49% of people who voted. Powerlynk's five candidates gained 17% to 30% support. Reform group Just Power No Politics stood three candidates who gained 22% to 28%. Three independents got 9% to 20%. Turnout was 46,631, or 16%.\n\nIn 2012 C&R (renamed \"Communities and Residents\") won all five seats again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6532966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6532966", "title": "Bog-wood", "text": "Bog-wood\n\nBog-wood, also known as abonos and morta, especially amongst pipe smokers, is a material from trees that have been buried in peat bogs and preserved from decay by the acidic and anaerobic bog conditions, sometimes for hundreds or even thousands of years. The wood is usually stained brown by tannins dissolved in the acidic water. Bog-wood represents the early stages in the fossilisation of wood, with further stages ultimately forming jet, lignite and coal over a period of many millions of years. Bog-wood may come from any tree species naturally growing near or in bogs, including oak (\"Quercus\" – \"bog oak\"), pine (\"Pinus\"), yew (\"Taxus\"), swamp cypress (\"Taxodium\") and kauri (\"Agathis\"). Bog-wood is often removed from fields and placed in clearance cairns. It is a rare form of timber that is claimed to be \"comparable to some of the world's most expensive tropical hardwoods\".\n\nBog-wood is created from the trunks of trees that have lain in bogs, and bog-like conditions such as lakes, river bottoms and swamps, for centuries and even millennia. Deprived of oxygen, the wood undergoes the process of fossilization and morta formation.\n\nWater flow and depth play a special role in the creation of morta. Currents bind the minerals and iron in the water with tannins in the wood, naturally staining the wood in the process. This centuries-long process, often termed \"maturation,\" turns the wood from golden-brown to completely black, while increasing its hardness to such a level that it can only be carved with the use of specialty cutting tools.\n\nWhile the time necessary for the oak to transform into abonos varies, the \"maturation\" commonly lasts thousands of years. Due to the ecological reasons mentioned above, no two trunks can be found of the same color.\n\nSites of quality bog-wood in the world are very rare. In the sites expected to yield it, morta is hard to find, and access to the river bank and its bed is often difficult. Therefore, extensive preparations and the engagement of professional divers are necessary for morta recovery. Morta is located in conditions of total darkness, and its extraction marks its first exposure to light after centuries of entombment.\n\nIn England and Ireland, the three main types of bog-wood that can be found are Yew, Oak and Pine. Reserves of the ancient wood can also be found in Russia and Ukraine, where the northern region has a climate favorable to the growth of oak.\n\nIn Croatia, bog-wood is typically found in the valley of the Sava River and its tributaries. The age of morta found in Croatian rivers ranges from several hundred years in the southern rivers to the oldest retrieved so far, from the Krapina River, dated at 8290 years old.\n\nIn Serbia, bog-wood over 8,000 years old is found in the valleys of the Danube River, Sava River and their tributaries, primarily in the province of Vojvodina.\n\nSaving the wood for further processing is a very delicate matter. Extracted logs must be wrapped in waterproof material and meticulously dried to prevent warping. The process of wood desiccation is complex, and despite great care, most of the raw wood is unsuitable for further processing. For this reason, the price of high quality raw abonos is quite high.\n\nBog-wood is characterized by natural staining and variations in color, and the direction of growth rings. Well preserved bog-wood is not affected by weather conditions or organisms which would change its strength and appearance.\nSemi-dry bog-wood is sometimes of a golden or copper color, or with a tint of some other hue, and is exceptionally hard. Older wood can be completely black, yet possess the rich variations in hue characteristic of “live” wood. This dark hue is a special feature of abonos as a construction material, whether it is used for the making of semi-manufactured goods, veneer or planks.\n\nBecause bog-wood can remain free of decay for thousands of years it is of use in dendrochronology, often providing records much older than living trees. Wooden artefacts lost or buried in bogs become preserved as bog-wood, and are important in archaeology.\n\nBog-wood may be used in joinery to make furniture or wood carving. Bog-wood sometimes has aesthetically interesting shapes (similar to driftwood) and may be use as ornaments. As bog-wood dries out, it may crack or split, but this does not necessarily detract from its aesthetic qualities. Due to its natural color, it is a traditionally favored wood for the carving of dirks (\"bìodagan\") and \"sgian-dubh\" in the Scottish Highlands.\n\nBog-wood is used in aquaria for ornaments, providing hiding places for fish and a growing surface for plants such as Java fern. Additionally, the leaching of organic compounds such as tannins into the water causes a brown coloration.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century bog oak was used to make carved decorative items such as jewelry and in some parts of the world it is still used to craft unique artifacts. Prized in the Tudor period for its dark hue, bog oak was used to construct the throne of Peter the Great as well in the construction of Venetian palaces and the bedroom suite of Louis XIV.\n\nOne of the uses of morta is for making of tobacco pipes. It is an ideal material because of a high percentage of minerals, reaching up to 12%, which makes morta especially resistant to burning. Because underground currents erase all traces of tannin, resin and similar ingredients in bog-wood, pipes constructed of the ancient wood provide a neutral taste during tobacco smoking. Due to the challenges of extraction and processing, today there are a relatively small number of pipemakers who make pipes out of morta.\n\nIn addition to pipes, bog-wood has traditionally been used to construct decorative objects and items for everyday use. Today, modern drying techniques have made it possible to preserve larger planks of bog oak that are suitable for floor coverings, furniture, doors, window frames, and sculptures.[1]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13973661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13973661", "title": "Boundaries between the continents of Earth", "text": "Boundaries between the continents of Earth\n\nThe boundaries between the continents of Earth are generally a matter of geographical convention. Several slightly different conventions are in use. The number of continents is most commonly considered seven but may range as low as four when the Americas and Afro-Eurasia are each considered a single continent. According to the definition of a continent in the strict sense, an island cannot be part of any continent, but by convention and in practice most major islands are associated with a continent.\n\nThere are three overland boundaries subject to definition:\n\nWhile the isthmus between Asia and Africa and that between North and South America are today navigable, via the Suez and Panama canals, respectively, diversions and canals of human origin generally are not accepted on their own accord as continent-defining boundaries; the Suez Canal happens to traverse the isthmus between the Mediterranean Sea and Red Sea, dividing Asia and Africa. The remaining boundaries concern the association of islands and archipelagos with specific continents, notably:\n\n\nThe European and African mainlands are non-contiguous, and the delineation between these continents is thus merely a question of which islands are to be associated with which continent. At its nearest point, Morocco and the European portion of Spain are separated by only .\n\nThe Portuguese Atlantic island possession of the Azores is from Europe and from Africa, and is usually grouped with Europe if grouped with any continent. By contrast, the Canary and Madeira islands off the Atlantic coast of Morocco are much closer to, and usually grouped with, Africa (the Canary Islands are only from the African coast at their closest point, while Madeira is from Africa and from Europe).\n\nThe Mediterranean island nation of Malta is approximately from the coast of Sicily in Europe - much closer than the distance to the closest African coast. The nearby Italian island of Lampedusa is from Sicily while just from the African coast; similarly, Pantelleria is from Sicily and just from the African coast. All of these Mediterranean islands are actually located on the African plate, and may be considered part of the continent of Africa. However, for political and historical reasons, maps generally display them as part of Europe.\n\nThe boundary between Europe and Asia is unusual among continental boundaries because of its largely mountain-and-river-based characteristics north and east of the Black Sea. The reason is historical, the division of Europe and Asia going back to the early Greek geographers.\nIn the modern sense of the term \"continent\", Eurasia is more readily identifiable as a \"continent\", and Europe has occasionally been described as a subcontinent of Eurasia.\n\nThe threefold division of the Old World into Europe, Asia and Africa has been in use since the 6th century BC, due to Greek geographers such as Anaximander and Hecataeus. \n\nAnaximander placed the boundary between Asia and Europe along the Phasis River (the modern Rioni) in the Caucasus (from its mouth by Poti on the Black Sea coast, through the Surami Pass and along the Kura River to the Caspian Sea), a convention still followed by Herodotus in the 5th century BC.\nAs geographic knowledge of the Greeks increased during the Hellenistic period, this archaic convention was revised, and the boundary between Europe and Asia was now considered to be the Tanais (the modern Don River). This is the convention used by Roman era authors such as Posidonius, Strabo and Ptolemy.\n\nThroughout the Middle Ages and into the 18th century, the traditional division of the landmass of Eurasia into two continents, Europe and Asia, followed Ptolemy, with the boundary following the Turkish Straits, the Black Sea, the Kerch Strait, the Sea of Azov and the Don (known in antiquity as the Tanais). But maps produced during the 16th to 18th centuries tended to differ in how to continue the boundary beyond the Don bend at Kalach-na-Donu (where it is closest to the Volga, now joined with it by the Volga–Don Canal), into territory not described in any detail by the ancient geographers.\n\nPhilip Johan von Strahlenberg in 1725 was the first to depart from the classical Don boundary by drawing the line along the Volga, following the Volga north until the Samara Bend, along Obshchy Syrt (the drainage divide between Volga and Ural) and then north along Ural Mountains. The mapmakers continued to differ on the boundary between the lower Don and Samara well into the 19th century. The published by the Russian Academy of Sciences has the boundary follow the Don beyond Kalach as far as Serafimovich before cutting north towards Arkhangelsk, while other 18th- to 19th-century mapmakers such as John Cary followed Strahlenberg's prescription. To the south, the Kuma–Manych Depression was identified circa 1773 by a German naturalist, Peter Simon Pallas, as a valley that, once upon a time, connected the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, and subsequently was proposed as a natural boundary between continents.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, there were three main conventions, one following the Don, the Volga–Don Canal and the Volga, the other following the Kuma–Manych Depression to the Caspian and then the Ural River, and the third abandoning the Don altogether, following the Greater Caucasus watershed to the Caspian. The question was still treated as a controversy in geographical literature of the 1860s, with Douglas Freshfield advocating the Caucasus crest boundary as the best possible, citing support from various modern geographers.\n\nIn Russia and the Soviet Union, the boundary along the Kuma–Manych Depression was the most commonly used as early as 1906. In 1958, the Soviet Geographical Society formally recommended that the boundary between the Europe and Asia be drawn in textbooks from Baydaratskaya Bay, on the Kara Sea, along the eastern foot of Ural Mountains, then following the Ural River until the Mugodzhar Hills, and then the Emba River; and Kuma–Manych Depression, thus placing the Caucasus entirely in Asia and the Urals entirely in Europe. However, most geographers in the Soviet Union favoured the boundary along the Caucasus crest and this became the standard convention in the latter 20th century, although the Kuma–Manych boundary remained in use in some 20th-century maps.\n\nThe modern border between Asia and Europe remains a historical and cultural construct, defined only by convention. The modern border follows the Aegean Sea, the Dardanelles-Sea of Marmara-Bosphorus (together known as the Turkish Straits), the Black Sea, along the watershed of the Greater Caucasus, the northwestern portion of the Caspian Sea and along the Ural River and Ural Mountains to the Kara Sea, as mapped and listed in most atlases including that of the National Geographic Society and as described in the World Factbook. According to this definition, Georgia and Azerbaijan both have most of their territory in Asia, although each has small parts of their northern borderlands north of the Greater Caucasus watershed and thus in Europe.\n\nThough most geographic sources assign the area south of the Caucasus Mountain crest to Southwest or West Asia, no definition is entirely satisfactory, with it often becoming a matter of self-identification. Cultural influences in the area originate from both Asia and Europe. While geographers rarely define continents primarily politically, Georgia and to a lesser extent Armenia and Azerbaijan are increasingly in the 21st century politically oriented towards Europe, but Armenia has a great cultural diaspora to the south, and Azerbaijan shares a cultural affinity with Iranian Azerbaijan as well as with the Turkic countries of Central Asia.\n\nThe Turkish city Istanbul lies in on both sides of the Bosporus (one of the Turkish Straits), making it a transcontinental city. Russia and Turkey are transcontinental countries with territory in both Europe and Asia by any definition except that of Eurasia as a single continent. While Russia is historically a European country with a history of imperial conquests in Asia, the situation for Turkey is inverse, as that of an Asian country with imperial conquests in Europe. Kazakhstan is also a transcontinental country by this definition, its West Kazakhstan and Atyrau provinces extending on either side of the Ural River.\nThis Ural River delineation is the only segment not to follow a major mountain range or wide water body, both of which often truly separate populations. However, the Ural River is the most common division used by authorities, is the most prominent natural feature in the region, and is the \"most satisfactory of those (options) proposed\" which include the Emba River, a much smaller stream cutting further into Central Asian Kazakhstan. The Ural River bridge in Orenburg is even labeled with permanent monuments carved with the word \"Europe\" on one side, \"Asia\" on the other.\n\nThe Kuma–Manych Depression (more precisely, the Manych River, the Kuma–Manych Canal and the Kuma River) remains cited less commonly as one possible natural boundary in contemporary sources. This definition peaked in prominence in the 19th century, however it has declined in usage since then, as it places traditionally European areas of Russia such as Stavropol, Krasnodar, and even areas just south of Rostov-on-Don in Asia.\n\nA lesser known definition for country grouping, is the definition used for statistical purposes by the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD):\n\nAccording to UNSD, the aforementioned \"assignment of countries or areas to specific groupings is for statistical convenience and does not imply any assumption regarding political or other affiliation of countries or territories\". Furthermore, the UNSD classification often differs from those of other United Nations organizations. For instance, while UNSD includes Georgia and Cyprus in Western Asia, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and UNESCO include both countries in Europe.\nThe Council of Europe includes the Eurasian countries of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cyprus, Georgia, Russia, and Turkey. It notes that\n\n[T]wo Council of Europe member States, Turkey and Russia, belong geographically to both Europe and Asia and are therefore Eurasian. Strictly speaking, the three South Caucasus States, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia are located in Asia, yet their membership of political Europe is no longer in doubt.\nCyprus is an island of the Mediterranean located close to Asia Minor, so that it is usually associated with Asia and/or the Middle East, as in the World Factbook and the United Nations geoscheme, but the Republic of Cyprus was nevertheless admitted to the Council of Europe in 1961 and joined the EU in 2004. The northern part of the island functions as the unrecognized (except by Turkey) Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus.\n\nThe Greek North Aegean Islands and the Dodecanese lie on the coast of the Asian part of Turkey (on the Asian continental shelf).\n\nEurope and North America are separated by the North Atlantic.\nIn terms of associating islands with either continent, the boundary is usually drawn between Greenland and Iceland. The Norwegian islands of Jan Mayen and Svalbard in the Arctic Ocean are usually associated with Europe. Iceland and the Azores are protrusions of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and are associated with and peopled from Europe, even though they have areas on the North American Plate. (Definitions of \"continents\" are a physical and cultural construct dating back centuries, long before the advent or even knowledge of plate tectonics; thus, defining a \"continent\" falls into the realm of physical and cultural geography, while continental plate definitions fall under plate tectonics in the realm of geology.)\n\nThe geographical notion of a continent stands in opposition to islands and archipelagos.\nNevertheless, there are some islands that are considered part of Europe in a political sense.\nThis most notably includes the British Isles (part of the European continental shelf and during the Ice Age of the continent itself), besides the islands of the North Sea, the Baltic Sea and the Mediterranean which are part of the territory of a country situated on the European mainland, and usually also the island states of Iceland and Malta.\n\nRussia's Vaygach Island and Novaya Zemlya extend northward from the northern end of the Ural Mountains and are a continuation of that chain into the Arctic Ocean. While Novaya Zemlya was variously grouped with Europe or with Asia in 19th-century maps it is now usually grouped with Europe, the continental boundary considered to join the Arctic Ocean along the southern shore of the Kara Sea. The Russian Arctic archipelago of Franz Josef Land farther north is also associated with Europe.\n\nEurope ends in the west at the Atlantic Ocean, although Iceland and the Azores archipelago (in the Atlantic, between Europe and North America) are usually considered European, as is the Norwegian Svalbard archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. Greenland is geographically part of North America, but politically associated with Europe as it is part of the Kingdom of Denmark, although it has extensive home rule and EU law no longer applies there.\n\nHistorically in Greco-Roman geography, \"Africa\" meant Ancient Libya, and its eastern extent was taken to be around Marmarica, at the \"Catabathmus Magnus\", placing Egypt in Asia entirely.\nThe idea of Egypt being an \"African\" country seems to develop in around the mid-19th century; the term \"Africa\" was classically reserved for what is now known as the Maghreb, to the explicit exclusion of Egypt, but with the exploration of Africa the shape of the African landmass (and Egypt's \"natural\" inclusion in that landmass) became apparent. In 1806, William George Browne still titled his travelogue \"Travels in Africa, Egypt, and Syria\". Similarly, James Bruce in 1835 published \"Travels through part of Africa, Syria, Egypt, and Arabia\". On the other hand,\nas early as 1670 John Ogilby under the title \"Africa\" published \"an accurate Description of the Regions of Egypt, Barbary, Libya, and Billedulgerid, the Land of Negroes, Guinea, Æthiopia, and the Abyssines, with all the adjacent Islands, either in the Mediterranean, Atlantic, Southern, or Oriental Seas, belonging thereunto\".\n\nThe usual line taken to divide Africa from Asia today is at the Isthmus of Suez, the narrowest gap between the Mediterranean and Gulf of Suez, the route today followed by the Suez Canal. This makes the Sinai Peninsula geographically Asian, and Egypt a transcontinental country. Less than 2% of Egyptian population live in the Sinai, and hence Egypt, even though technically transcontinental, is usually considered an African country entirely and not partly Asian.\n\nBut when discussing the geopolitical region of the Middle East and North Africa, Egypt is usually grouped with the Western Asian countries as part of the Middle East, while Egypt's western neighbor Libya is grouped with the remaining North African countries as the Maghreb. However, they are both members of the Arab League as well as the African Union.\n\nThe Seychelles, Mauritius, and Comoros are island nations in the Indian Ocean associated with Africa. The island of Socotra may be considered African as it lies on this continent's shelf, but is part of Yemen, an Asian country.\n\nThe border between North America and South America is at some point on the Isthmus of Panama. The most common demarcation in atlases and other sources follows the Darién Mountains watershed divide along the Colombia-Panama border where the isthmus meets the South American continent. Virtually all atlases list Panama as a state falling entirely within North America and/or Central America.\n\nOften most of the Caribbean islands are considered part of North America, but Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao and Trinidad and Tobago lie on the continental shelf of South America. On the other hand, the Venezuelan Isla Aves and the Colombian San Andrés and Providencia lie on the North American shelf.\n\nThe Bering Strait and Bering Sea separate the landmasses of Asia and North America, as well as forming the international boundary between Russia and the United States. This national and continental boundary separates the Diomede Islands in the Bering Strait, with Big Diomede in Russia and Little Diomede in the US. The Aleutian Islands are an island chain extending westward from the Alaska Peninsula toward Russia's Komandorski Islands and Kamchatka Peninsula. Most of them are always associated with North America, except for the westernmost Near Islands group, which is on Asia's continental shelf beyond the North Aleutians Basin and on rare occasions could be associated with Asia, which could then allow the U.S. state of Alaska to be considered a transcontinental state.\n\nSt. Lawrence Island in the northern Bering Sea belongs to Alaska and may be associated with either continent but is almost always considered part of North America, as with the Rat Islands in the Aleutian chain. At their nearest points, Alaska and Russia are separated by only .\n\nThe Galápagos Islands and Malpelo Island in the eastern Pacific Ocean are possessions of Ecuador and Colombia, respectively, and associated with South America. The uninhabited French possession of Clipperton Island off the Mexican coast is associated with North America.\n\nEaster Island, a territory of Chile, is considered to be in Oceania, though politically it is associated with South America.\n\nThe United States of America controls numerous territories in Oceania, including the state of Hawaii and the territories of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa.\n\nThe Malay Archipelago is usually divided between Asia and Australasia, most commonly along the anthropologic Melanesian line or Weber's Line. Indonesia controls the western half of New Guinea, geographically part of Australasia. The eastern half of the island is part of Papua New Guinea which is considered to be part of Oceania. Indonesia is commonly referred to as one of the Southeast Asian countries. East Timor, an independent state that was formerly a territory of Indonesia, which is geographically part of Asia, is classified by the United Nations as part of the \"South-Eastern Asia\" block. It is expected to join the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, having been involved as an ASEAN Regional Forum member since independence, and has participated in the Southeast Asian Games since 2003. Occasionally, all of the Malay Archipelago is included in Oceania, although this is extremely rare, especially as most of the archipelago lies on the Asian continental shelf.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Australia includes island possessions in Oceania and islands closer to Indonesia than the Australian mainland.\n\nAntarctica along with its outlying islands have no permanent population. All land claims south of 60°S latitude are held in abeyance by the Antarctic Treaty System.\n\nThe South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands are closer to Antarctica than to any other continent. However, they are politically associated with the inhabited Falkland Islands which are closer to South America. Furthermore, Argentina, a South American country, maintains its irredentist claims on the islands. The continental shelf boundary separates the two island groups.\n\nThe Prince Edward Islands are located between Africa and Antarctica, and are the territory of South Africa, an African country. The Australian Macquarie Island and the New Zealand Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, and Campbell Islands, are all located between the Oceanian countries of Australia and New Zealand and Antarctica.\n\nAustralia's Heard Island and McDonald Islands and the French Kerguelen Islands are located on the Kerguelen Plateau, on the Antarctic continental plate. The French Crozet Islands, Île Amsterdam, Île Saint-Paul, and the Norwegian Bouvet Island are also located on the Antarctic continental plate, and are not often associated with other continents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2205771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2205771", "title": "Calybe", "text": "Calybe\n\nIn Greek mythology, Calybe (Ancient Greek: Καλυβη means \"rustic hut\") was a nymph who was a wife of the Trojan king Laomedon and the mother of Bucolion. \n"}
{"id": "28034223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28034223", "title": "Cave of Santo Hermano Pedro", "text": "Cave of Santo Hermano Pedro\n\nThe Cave-Shrine of Santo Hermano Pedro, is a Roman Catholic cave-shrine dedicated to Saint Peter of Saint Joseph Betancur (Canary first saint). Located in the municipality of Granadilla de Abona, near El Medano on the south of the island of Tenerife (Canary Islands, Spain).\n\nThis cave is considered one of the most important pilgrimage spots of the Canary Islands, which annually attracts over 300.000 visitors. In this cave is where saint stood with his flock to rest to recover and walk again forces the way to his small village in the highlands of Vilaflor. In addition, the cave was also used by Peter as a place of prayer and even as a hiding place to protect himself from some pirate attack, which were abundant on the coasts of the Canary Islands at that time.\n\nCurrently inside the cave is a wooden statue of the saint, the cave has a section that is completely surrounded with votive offerings of the faithful. In addition, the cave has a relic of the Saint, specifically a part of a rib.\n\nSince 1999, the cave it is listed as a Site of cultural interest by the Government of the Canary Islands.\n\nIn this cave ends the so-called \"Camino del Hermano Pedro\", which is a pastoral route that the Saint traveled to move with his flock along the Chasna region. This route starts from Vilaflor to the Santo cave. Currently during the festival of the Saint in April, hundreds of pilgrims travel this route that has a great religious-historical interest.\n"}
{"id": "1137223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137223", "title": "Chatham Rise", "text": "Chatham Rise\n\nThe Chatham Rise is an area of ocean floor to the east of New Zealand, forming part of the Zealandia continent. It stretches for some from near the South Island in the west, to the Chatham Islands in the east. It is New Zealand's most productive and important fishing ground, as well as important habitat for whales.\n\nRelative to the rest of the Pacific Ocean waters around New Zealand, the Chatham Rise is relatively shallow, no more than deep at any point. This shallowness is made more remarkable by the depth of the ocean immediately to the north and south. To the northeast, the Hikurangi Trench, an extension of the much deeper Kermadec Trench, drops to below close to the New Zealand coast, and further from the coast the Rise borders on the Hikurangi Plateau. To the south, similar depths are achieved in the Bounty Trough. Past the eastern end of the rise, the sea floor drops away to the abyssal plain.\n\nGeologically and tectonically, the Chatham Rise can be thought of as an extension of the eastern South Island. It was largely dry land at the end of the Cretaceous (66 million years ago) and formed a large peninsula extending from New Zealand to the Chatham Islands at that time.\n\nThe Cretaceous landscape of the Chatham Rise was characterized by a volcanic landscape. Fossils found on the Chatham Islands characterize the flora and fauna of the Chatham Rise in the late Mesozoic. The region had forests dominated by gymnosperms (such as \"Araucaria\", \"Mataia\" and \"Podocarpus\") and Lycopodiopsida (clubmosses). Some angiosperms were also present. Dinosaurs such as theropods dwelt on the peninsula and probably evolved into numerous endemic forms (Stilwell \"et al.\" 2006).\n\nThe Chatham Rise is New Zealand's most productive and important commercial fishing ground. The region is analogous to the North Sea's \"Broad Fourteens\", but is significantly deeper.\n\nWarm subtropical surface waters from the north and cold subantarctic surface waters from the south meet in the vicinity of the Chatham Rise to create a subtropical front. Nutrient rich waters from the south mix with warm northern waters and create ideal conditions for plankton and the animals that feed on them.\n\nThe fishing grounds near the subtropical front and particularly the Chatham Rise provide 60% of New Zealand’s fish catch. Because the Chatham Rise is relatively shallow, it is accessible to both midwater trawling and bottom trawling. Species include the main hoki, hake, ling, silver warehou, squid, orange roughy and deep sea (oreo) dory fisheries.\n\nThe traditional approach to fisheries management has been to focus on a single species - determining how many can be caught before the breeding population is affected to the point of harming the species fishery. There is a current trend towards ecosystem based fisheries. Removing any fish affects other marine life up and down the food chain, such as marine life that eat the fish, and the marine life eating the marine life that eat the fish. Scientists from NIWA are examining over 40,000 fish stomachs to see what different species are eating across the Chatham Rise. These studies, combined with other studies on marine mammals and sea birds and with relevant ocean and climate studies, will show how the different parts fit together in the Chatham Rise ecosystem.\n\n"}
{"id": "1407435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1407435", "title": "Consumables", "text": "Consumables\n\nConsumables (also known as consumable goods, non-durable goods, or soft goods) are goods that are intended to be consumed. John Locke specifies these as \"consumable commodities\". People have, for example, always consumed food and water. Consumables are in contrast to durable goods. Disposable products are a particular, extreme case of consumables, because their end-of-life is reached after a single use.\n\nConsumables are products that consumers use \"recurrently\", i.e., items which \"get used up\" or discarded. For example consumable office supplies are such products as paper, pens, file folders, Post-it notes, and toner or ink cartridges. This is in contrast to capital goods or durable goods in the office, such as computers, fax machines, and other business machines or office furniture. Sometimes a company sells a durable good at an attractively low price in the hopes that the consumer will then buy the consumables that go with it at a price providing a higher margin. Printers and ink cartridges are an example, as are razors and blades, which gave this business model its usual name (the razor and blades model). \n\nFor arc welding one uses a \"consumable\" electrode. This is an electrode that conducts electricity to the arc but also melts into the weld as a filler metal.\n\nConsumable goods are often excluded from warranty policies, as it is considered that covering them would excessively increase the cost of the premium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44006007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44006007", "title": "Cosmology episode", "text": "Cosmology episode\n\nA cosmology episode is a sudden loss of meaning, followed eventually by a transformative pivot, which creates the conditions for revised meaning.\n\nIn the wake of the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the Vietnam War, the 1977 Tenerife airport disaster, the 1984 Bhopal chemical disaster, and the relatively sudden insertion of personal computers into the workplace, organizational scholar Karl E. Weick coined the term \"cosmology episode,\" as follows, in 1985:\n\n\"Representations of events normally hang together sensibly within the set of assumptions that give them life and constitute a 'cosmos' rather than its opposite, a 'chaos.' Sudden losses of meaning that can occur when an event is represented electronically in an incomplete, cryptic form are what I call a 'cosmology episode.' Representations in the electronic world can become chaotic for at least two reasons: The data in these representations are flawed, and the people who manage those flawed data have limited processing capacity. These two problems interact in a potentially deadly vicious circle.\"\n\nThe concept of cosmology episodes evolved significantly between 1985 and 1993, when Weick published his now-classic reanalysis of Norman Maclean's study of the Mann Gulch wildland firefighting disaster in 1949. In the 1993 article, Weick positions cosmology episodes within a constructivist ontology, he links the term to a variety of similar concepts, and he provides a better-developed definition than he was able to provide in 1985.\n\nFirst, Weick makes it clear that cosmology episodes occur within a constructivist ontology of the world, rather than the more familiar objectivist and subjectivist ontologies:\n\n\"The basic idea of sensemaking is that reality is an ongoing accomplishment that emerges from efforts to create order and make retrospective sense of what occurs... Sensemaking emphasizes that people try to make things rationally accountable to themselves and others. Thus, in the words of Morgan, Frost, and Pondy (1983: 24), \"individuals are not seen as living in, and acting out their lives in relations \"to\", a wider reality, so much as creating and sustaining images of a wider reality, in part to rationalize what they are doing. They realize their reality by 'reading into' their situation patterns of significant meaning.\"\n\nSecond, Weick clarifies the key phrase \"sudden loss of meaning\" by linking it to related ideas described by other organizational scholars:\n\n\"Minimal organizations, such as we find in the crew at Mann Gulch, are susceptible to sudden losses of meaning, which have been variably described as fundamental surprises (Reason, 1990) or as events that are inconceivable (Lanir, 1989), hidden (Westrum, 1982), or incomprehensible (Perrow, 1984). Each of these labels points to the low probability that the event could occur, which is why it is meaningless. But these explanations say less about the astonishment of the perceiver, and even less about the perceiver's inability to rebuild some sense of what is happening.\"\n\nThird, Weick expands his 1985 definition -- \"sudden losses of meaning\"—to a more nuanced description:\n\n\"Cosmology refers to a branch of philosophy often subsumed under metaphysics that combines rational speculation and scientific evidence to understand the universe as a totality of phenomena. Cosmology is the ultimate macro perspective, directed at issues of time, space, change, and contingency as they relate to the origin and structure of the universe. Integrations of these issues, however, are not just the handiwork of philosophers. Others also must make their peace with these issues, as reflected in what they take for granted. People, including those who are smokejumpers, act as if events cohere in time and space and that change unfolds in an orderly manner. These everyday cosmologies are subject to disruption. And when they are severely disrupted, I call this a cosmology episode (Weick, 1985: 51-52). A cosmology episode occurs when people suddenly and deeply feel that the universe is no longer a rational, orderly system.\"\n\nBuilding on Weick's 1993 definition of cosmology episodes, Weick, his colleagues, and other researchers have advanced knowledge of best practices during cosmology episodes at four levels of analysis: (1) catastrophic cosmology episodes, such as the 9/11 terrorist attacks of 2001 and the Haitian earthquake of 2010; (2) disastrous cosmology episodes, such as the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami and the 2005 Hurricane Katrina; (3) contextualized cosmology episodes occurring within specific domains, such as the 1976 Three Mile Island nuclear system incident and the 1970 Apollo 13 space system incident; and (4) everyday cosmology episodes, such as transition of leaders at the top of an organization and the introduction of new technologies throughout an organization.\n\nThe study of cosmology episodes is distinct from the study of high-reliability organizations because the concept directs explicit attention to the integral role of human spirituality during catastrophic events—as the threatened entity (what now is my role in the universe?), the source of inspiration/improvisation (what now am I able to do to respond to the event?), and the re-established entity (what now is my different role in the universe?). Consequently, the topic of cosmology episodes lends itself to study by researchers within two small academic organizations—the American Psychological Association's Division 36 (Psychology of Religion and Spirituality) and the Academy of Management's MSR Division (Management, Spirituality, and Religion).\n\nA 2016 article titled \"Cosmology Episodes: A Reconceptualization,\" Doug Orton and Kari O'Grady identified three taxonomies that they found helpful in studying 164 citations of the term \"cosmology episode\" on Google Scholar. One taxonomy was based on level of analysis (nation, community, organization, team, and individual). One taxonomy was based on five resilience processes (anticipating, sense-losing, improvising, sense-remaking, and renewing). The third taxonomy -- of interest here -- is level of intensity of the cosmology episode (catastrophe, disaster, crisis, ancillary, and metaphorical). Communications researchers tend to be more present in the study of community disasters; management researchers tend to be more present in the study of organizational crises. Importantly, though, it is possible for a community-level cosmology episode to be catastrophic (e.g. Hurrican Katrina), disastrous (e.g the Red River floods of 1997), a crisis (e.g. the 22 July 2005 Stockwell Subway Shooting), ancillary (e.g. an e coli epidemic for a food company), and metaphorical (e.g. the introduction of new technology in an Italian courtroom).\n"}
{"id": "26223218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26223218", "title": "Creature worship", "text": "Creature worship\n\nIn contrast with worship of a Creator deity, the theological term creature worship refers unflatteringly to veneration of that which is created. In the biblical worldview, creature worship is seen as analogous to a reversal of the relationship between God and creature or the reversal of mindedness, which places power in the handiwork. \n\nCreature worship may include: Animal worship, Animism,Cult of personality,Household deity, Idolatry, Nature worship, and/or Pantheism.\n\nIn some Christian denominations and even in the early development of the Christian church, the veneration of saints is considered creature worship. It is based on the view that Christians worship the deity of God instead of his humanity and that all creature worship, including the bowing and reverence for any creature such as the veneration of Mary and the saints are forbidden. \n\nIn Buddhism, Buddha was said to have forbidden his disciples from worshiping his images. To get around this, some Buddhists worship objects that serve as his symbols such as the \"pipal\" tree, images of Buddha's footsteps, and the wheel of law, among others. \n\nCreature worship is part of the Hindu faith and this is based on the theory of karma and the principle of rebirth. With the goal to achieve \"nirvana\", the soul experiences rebirth in the form of different creatures. It is, thus, accepted to worship nature in all of its elements because it signifies respect for the environment as well as the worship for one's ancestors.\n"}
{"id": "3983509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983509", "title": "Effect of Sun angle on climate", "text": "Effect of Sun angle on climate\n\nThe amount of heat energy received at any location on the globe is a direct effect of Sun angle on climate, as the angle at which sunlight strikes the Earth varies by location, time of day, and season due to the Earth's orbit around the Sun and the Earth's rotation around its tilted axis. Seasonal change in the angle of sunlight, caused by the tilt of the Earth's axis, is the basic mechanism that results in warmer weather in summer than in winter. Change in day length is another factor. (See also season.)\n\nWhen sunlight shines on the earth at a lower angle (Sun closer to the horizon), the energy of the sunlight is spread over a larger area, and is therefore weaker than if the Sun is higher overhead and the energy is concentrated on a smaller area.\n\nFigure 2 depicts a sunbeam one mile (1.6 km) wide falling on the ground from directly overhead, and another hitting the ground at a 30° angle. Trigonometry tells us that the sine of a 30° angle is 1/2, whereas the sine of a 90° angle is 1. Therefore, the sunbeam hitting the ground at a 30° angle spreads the same amount of light over twice as much area (if we imagine the Sun shining from the south at noon, the north-south width doubles; the east-west width does not). Consequently, the amount of light falling on each square mile is only half as much.\n\nFigure 3 shows the angle of sunlight striking the earth in the Northern and Southern hemispheres when the Earth's northern axis is tilted away from the Sun, when it is winter in the north and summer in the south.\n\nHeat energy is not received from the Sun. Rather, radiant energy is received and this results in change in energy level of receiving bodies in Earth's domain. Different materials have different properties for transmitting back received energy in the form of \"heat energy\" at different rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "232953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=232953", "title": "Electron degeneracy pressure", "text": "Electron degeneracy pressure\n\nElectron degeneracy pressure is a particular manifestation of the more general phenomenon of quantum degeneracy pressure. The Pauli exclusion principle disallows two identical half-integer spin particles (electrons and all other fermions) from simultaneously occupying the same quantum state. The result is an emergent pressure against compression of matter into smaller volumes of space. Electron degeneracy pressure results from the same underlying mechanism that defines the electron orbital structure of elemental matter. For bulk matter with no net electric charge, the attraction between electrons and nuclei exceeds (at any scale) the mutual repulsion of electrons plus the mutual repulsion of nuclei; so absent electron degeneracy pressure, the matter would collapse into a single nucleus. In 1967, Freeman Dyson showed that solid matter is stabilized by quantum degeneracy pressure rather than electrostatic repulsion. Because of this, electron degeneracy creates a barrier to the gravitational collapse of dying stars and is responsible for the formation of white dwarfs.\n\nPerhaps useful in appreciating electron degeneracy pressure is the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, which states that \nwhere Δ\"x\" is the uncertainty (standard deviation) of the position measurements, Δ\"p\" is the uncertainty of the momentum measurements, and \"ħ\" is the reduced Planck constant.\n\nA material subjected to ever-increasing pressure will compact more, and, for electrons within it, their delocalization, Δ\"x\", will decrease. Thus, as dictated by the uncertainty principle, the spread in the momenta of the electrons, Δ\"p\", will grow. Thus, no matter how low the temperature drops, the electrons must be travelling at these large \"Heisenberg speeds\", contributing to the pressure. When the pressure due to this \"Heisenberg motion\" exceeds that of the pressure from the thermal motions of the electrons, the electrons are referred to as degenerate, and the material is termed degenerate matter. This analysis is true even at almost zero temperature.\n\nElectrons are part of a family of particles known as fermions. Fermions like the proton or the neutron follow Pauli's principle and Fermi–Dirac statistics. In general, for an ensemble of non-interacting fermions, also known as Fermi gas, each particle can be treated independently with an energy given by the purely kinetic term, \nwhere is the momentum of one particle and its mass. Every possible momentum state of an electron within this volume up to the Fermi momentum being occupied.\n\nThe degeneracy pressure at zero temperature can be computed as\n\nwhere \"V\" is the total volume of the system and \"E\" is the total energy of the ensemble. Specifically for the electron degeneracy pressure, is substituted by the electron mass and the Fermi momentum is obtained from the Fermi energy, so the electron degeneracy pressure is given by\nwhere is the free electron density (the number of free electrons per unit volume). For the case of a metal, one can prove that this equation remains approximately true for temperatures lower than the Fermi temperature, about kelvin.\n\nWhen particle energies reach relativistic levels, a modified formula is required. The relativistic degeneracy pressure is proportional to .\n\nFor the case of electrons in crystalline solid, several approximations are carefully justified to treat the electrons as independent particles. Usual models are the free electron model and the nearly free electron model. In the appropriate systems, the electron degeneracy pressure can be calculated and can be shown that this pressure is an important contribution to the compressibility or bulk modulus of metals.\n\nElectron degeneracy pressure will halt the gravitational collapse of a star if its mass is below the Chandrasekhar limit (1.44 solar masses). This is the pressure that prevents a white dwarf star from collapsing. A star exceeding this limit and without significant thermally generated pressure will continue to collapse to form either a neutron star or black hole, because the degeneracy pressure provided by the electrons is weaker than the inward pull of gravity.\n\n"}
{"id": "7393326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7393326", "title": "European Soil Database", "text": "European Soil Database\n\nThe European Soil Database is the main source of soil information from which most other data information and services are derived Geographic_information_system. For instance, the European Soil Database v2 Raster Archive contains raster (grid) data files with cell sizes of 10km x 10km for a large number of soil related parameters. Each grid is aligned with the INSPIRE reference grid recommended in the 1st Workshop on European Reference Grids. These rasters are in the public domain and allow expert users to use the data for instance to run soil-, water- and air related models. The 10km x 10km grids fit with ideas from INSPIRE to develop “nested” systems for re-porting and updating European soil data at different scales, according to a hierarchy of grids with a common point of origin and standardized location and size of grid cells. The European Soil Database may be downloaded from the European Soil Data Center (ESDAC).\n\nThe soil raster data files are accompanied by as many static soil maps (PDF Format, A3), which allow the user to have a quick overview of the distribution of soil characteristics in a spatial way. One of the main outputs of the ESBN has been a series of documents and research reports. All these are now on-line for public download.\n\nAdditionally, a number of mapping services has been developed in order to allow the general public to navigate and query soil data. The SOMIS (SOil Map Internet Service) is a web-based application for the navigation of ESDB related data through a map interface. This map service allows interaction through soil parameter selection and map operations such as zooming and panning. The data can be queried and identified; advanced printing capabilities are provided. According to INSPIRE principles, this application has been created and extended so that it is possible to combine layers of maps located in different map servers all around the World, based on International Web Map Service (WMS) standards and specifications from the Open GIS Consortium, as also laid down in the INSPIRE Guidelines, in order to attain the maximum interoperability of data and services.\n\nDownload Sources:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11865998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11865998", "title": "Fyodor Konyukhov", "text": "Fyodor Konyukhov\n\nFedor Filippovich Konyukhov (; born December 12, 1951 in , Pryazovskyi Raion, Zaporizhia Oblast, Ukrainian SSR) is a Russian survivalist, voyager, aerial and marine explorer, and artist. In December 2010, he was ordained as an Eastern Orthodox priest in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate).\n\nKonyukhov was born in the village of , located in the Pryazovskyi Raion of Ukraine's Zaporizhia Oblast. His father was a fisherman on the Sea of Azov, while his grandfather had served in the same garrison as Georgy Sedov, an Arctic explorer. Konyukhov attended a nautical school in Odessa and another in Leningrad earning a specialty in polar navigation. Subsequently, he worked as a professional navigator and marine engineer. He served 3 years in the Soviet Navy. He was stationed in a Kaliningrad guardhouse with the Baltic Fleet when he volunteered for a 2.5 year tour of duty as a Soviet Marine sailing across the South China Sea as special forces delivering munitions to the Viet Cong during the Vietnam War. After his service in the Soviet Armed Forces, he disliked the terrible realities of war and completed a vocational arts school in Bobruisk which enabled him to become a successful painter and sculptor. Konyukhov is an ordained priest in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate). He was made a deacon in 2010.\n\nIn 1983, Fedor Konyukhov was admitted to the Union of Artists of the USSR (he was the youngest member at that moment). Since 1996 he has been a member of the Moscow Union of Artists, Graphic Arts section; since 2001, a member of the Sculpture section as well.\n\nHe is a winner of the Gold Medal of the Russian Arts Academy, an Honorary Academician of the Russian Arts Academy and the creator of more than 3,000 paintings. He has participated in a number of Russian and international exhibitions.\n\nFedor Konyukhov becomes the first priest of the Russian Orthodox Church to successfully climbed Mt. Everest. He took the icon of St. Nicholas to the Summit with him.\n\n2015 - Global Ambassadors for Australia Zoo Wildlife Warriors.\n\nKonyukhov is the only person to have reached such extreme points of the planet as the North Pole (three times), the South Pole, the Pole of Inaccessibility in the Arctic Ocean and the top of Mount Everest (twice) and also sailed around the world via Cape Horn 4 times.\n\nIn May 2008, Konyukhov completed a solo circumnavigation of Antarctica in a sailboat, becoming the first person to do so. His attempt began on 26 January 2008 and took 102 days in total, with his route falling entirely between the 45th and 60th parallels south.\n\nKonyukhov has set world records, notably crossing the Atlantic Ocean in a row-boat URALAZ in 46 days, the best 24-hour distance in the same boat (110 miles).\n\nFrom December 22, 2013 to May 31, 2014 Fyodor Konyukhov crossed the Pacific Ocean starting in the Chilean port of Concon and finishing in Australian town of Mooloolaba (Sunshine Coast) without entering ports and without any external help or assistance. He covered the distance of more than 17,408 km (9400 nautical miles) on the Turgoyak (K9) rowboat in just 162 days.\n\nOn 23 July 2016, Konyukhov became the second person to circumnavigate the world in a hybrid hot-air helium balloon. American Steve Fossett is the only other person to have completed the feat, having done so in 2002 on his sixth attempt. Konyukhov took \"just over 11 days\", as opposed to Fossett's 13 days.\n\nKonyukhov announced his intention to challenge Fossett's record in September 2015, although the idea had \"first captured [his] imagination in 1992\". The balloon he used, named the \"Morton\", was specially constructed by Cameron Balloons in Bristol, England, and had a height of and a volume of . The balloon's non-pressurised gondola was made of carbon fibre and measured roughly wide and tall, containing Konyukhov's bed, food, water, oxygen, and first-aid supplies, as well as navigation and communication equipment.\n\nThe attempt began in Northam, Western Australia, north-east of Perth, on 12 July 2016. He and his team had arrived in Australia in June, but experienced several delays due to weather and the failure of equipment to arrive on time. After launching, Konyukhov flew east across Australia and the South Pacific Ocean to South America, where he passed through Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and the southern tip of Brazil. He then flew across the South Atlantic, the southern Indian Ocean, and the Southern Ocean before eventually landing again in Bonnie Rock, Western Australia, completing his circumnavigation. Konyukhov's planned route was , but an unexpected southerly deviation (which took him to the Antarctic Circle) extended his flight to .\n\nHe set a new round-the world time of 272h 11m, subject to official confirmation. He described his experience in a newspaper article.\n\n2000 (March) – Completed the longest dog race IDITAROD – 1150 miles from Anchorage to Nome (Northern route)\n\n2007 (May) - Dog sled expedition across Greenland Ice Cap from East to West. Started from Isortoq (East Coast) and finished at West Coast (Ilullisat). Covering about 800 km in 15 days and 22 hours during a Trans-Greenland dog sleigh ride.\n\n2013 (April–May) – Dog sled expedition from North Pole to Canada. Together with his partner - Viktor Simonov they crossed Arctic Ocean in 46 days and reached the shores of Ward Hunt Island (Canada).\n\nIn 2011 Konyukhov fulfilled an expedition cross Ethiopia, covering more than 1000 km of route.\n\nFedor is the first Russian mountaineer to complete the 7 Summits challenge for which a person must climb the highest mountains of each of the seven major continents, also he is the first Russian traveller and third person in the world, who completed The Explorers Grand Slam: he also visited both the North Pole and the South Pole.\nOn May 19, 2012 - Fedor Konyukhov together with the Russian team \"7 Summits\" reached the top of Mt. Everest. His climbing route was via the Northern Ridge (Tibet). This expedition was devoted to the 20th anniversary of the first Russian ascent of Mt. Everest (via the Southern Col) – May 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15545208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15545208", "title": "Hudson Plains Ecozone (CEC)", "text": "Hudson Plains Ecozone (CEC)\n\nThe Hudson Plains Ecozone, as defined by the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC), is a sparsely populated Canadian subarctic ecozone extending from the western coast of Quebec to the coast of Manitoba, encompassing all coastal areas of James Bay and those of southern Hudson Bay, stretching to about 50°N latitude. It includes the largest continuous wetland in the world. It covers nearly a quarter of Ontario's landmass, and 3.6% of Canada's total area, totalling approximately 369,000 square kilometres of land and 11,800 square kilometres of water.\nIts historical prominence is due to the harshness endured by pioneer explorers who established fortifications for Hudson's Bay Company, and as a result of regional wars between France and Britain. Today, it is primarily noted for the well-known Polar Bear Provincial Park, and to a lesser extent Wapusk National Park, as well as its vast wetlands which are used by migratory birds.\n\nThe Palaeozoic and Proterozoic sedimentary deposits overlaying the bedrock have formed into a wide and level plain characterised by raised beaches and river deltas, with an elevation rarely exceeding 120 m. The relatively flat land slopes gently toward the two bays, which act as a drainage basin for the region. However, the relatively poor drainage system has spurred the natural development of numerous wetlands. It is encircled by the Canadian Shield, with which it overlaps in a few areas to the east and west.\n\nTo its north is the cold Arctic Archipelago Marine ecozone, and to the south is the milder Boreal Shield. Hence, this ecozone is transitional, which is easily evident as it transforms from barren tundra in the north to open taiga forests in the south. These forests resemble those of the boreal zone, with sparser vegetation.\n\nThousands of depressions carved by retreating glaciers have become lakes and wetlands. The Hudson Plains is also noted for coastal marshes and extensive tidal flats, with tidal marshes along the coast of Hudson Bay. Belts of raised beaches are evident where rebound from glacier retreat is most prominent.\n\nThe ecozone has a subarctic climate which is significantly influenced by the adjacent marine area of Hudson Bay, which features cold and moisture-laden low-pressure systems. Frigid polar high-pressure air masses commonly reach the area. Typically cold, mean January temperatures are near −19 °C, and mean July temperatures range between 12 °C and 16 °C. The region experiences moderate precipitation, between 400 mm to 700 mm annually. Summers are cool and relatively short, with prolonged daylight, while winters are very cold.\n\nReferred to as an \"insect-infested landscape of bog and fog\", it teems with large insect populations that are a food source for migratory waterbirds. The Hudson Plains have become \"notorious for their populations of biting insects\". Vegetation is somewhat limited, with the northern areas abutting the Arctic Archipelago Marine being nearly treeless, whereas the southern extent, adjacent to the Boreal Shield, have open forest. Alder, willow, black spruce and tamarack are the most common plant species in the treed bogs and fens of the Hudson Plains, whereas sphagnum and shrubs such as crowberry and blueberry dominate the open bogs to the north, with white spruce appearing further south. Poorly drained areas produce dense sedge, moss and lichen cover.\n\nThe Hudson Plains also represent the southern extent of the polar bears yearly migratory route, which reaches the northwestern coast of Ontario. In autumn, polar bears migrate to the ice back forming along the coast of Hudson Bay. The bears then follow the Hudson Bay Coast toward Churchill, Manitoba. Mammals such as moose, woodland caribou and black bears are comfortable in this environment, but smaller mammals are more common, including muskrats, weasels, Arctic foxes, martens, and fishers.\n\nThe adjacent marine ecozone of the Arctic Archipelago Marine supports mammal populations of walrus and bearded, harbour and ringed seals.\n\nMillions of migratory shorebirds stage and nest in multiple areas of the Hudson Plains, particularly in three areas within Southern James Bay: Akimiski Island, and the migratory bird sanctuaries at Hannah Bay and the mouth of the Moose River. Representative species include the snow goose, Canada goose, king eider, swan, loon, gyrfalcon, and peregrine falcon.\n"}
{"id": "8984493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8984493", "title": "Ion pump (physics)", "text": "Ion pump (physics)\n\nAn ion pump (also referred to as a sputter ion pump) is a type of vacuum pump capable of reaching pressures as low as 10 mbar under ideal conditions. An ion pump ionizes gas within the vessel it is attached to and employs a strong electrical potential, typically 3–7 kV, which allows the ions to accelerate into and be captured by a solid electrode and its residue.\n\nThe first ion pump was invented by Varian Associates, now Agilent. \nThe original activity of Varian, co-founded in 1948 by Russell Varian, the inventor of the Klystron, and his brother Sigurd, was in the field of microwave electron tubes. Robert Jepsen joined the company in 1951 and soon became director of the Klystron research group. His investigation about electronic vacuum pumping led in 1957 to the realization of the first sputter ion pump (SIP), later named VacIon pump, of which he was co-inventor.\nThe pump was developed as an appendage pump for maintaining Ultra High Vacuum (UHV) in microwave power tubes after processing, but soon after honeycomb-shaped anodes and commercial VacIon pumps with speeds of thousands of liters per second were produced. Lewis Hall and John Helmer were members of the research team, involved in the choice of the most suitable cathode material and in the optimization of the ion pump design. Sherm Rutherford joined Varian in February 1959 in the Central Research Department (which, soon after, spun off the Vacuum Division). His activity, working for Robert Jepsen, was to study the behavior of the sputter ion pump (in terms of pumping speed and discharge intensity I/P) over a wide range of parameters, such as magnetic field, voltage, anode cell diameter, anode cell length and pressure. Renn Zaphiropoulos joined the Vacuum Division in 1959 and was engaged in scaling up the ion pump from the original appendage pump to a full range of large pumps up to 5000 l/s . His group worked on high voltage feedthroughs, magnets, control units, systems, flanges, valves, sorption pumps and Titanium Sublimation Pumps (TSP). In 1960 the “slotted” titanium cathode, named “Super VacIon Pump”, was introduced on the basis of observations about noble gas pumping mechanism and unstable Argon pumping phenomena. In the same years triode pumps were invented by W.M. Brubaker (Consolidated Electrodynamics Corporation) and Varian, now Agilent, began to sell them in the late ‘60s under the name “Noble Ion Pumps”, then changed the name to “Triode Ion Pumps” in the early ‘70s.\n\nThe basic element of the common ion pump is a Penning trap. A swirling cloud of electrons produced by an electric discharge is temporarily stored in the anode region of a Penning trap. These electrons ionize incoming gas atoms and molecules. The resultant swirling ions are accelerated to strike a chemically active cathode (usually titanium). On impact the accelerated ions will either become buried within the cathode or sputter cathode material onto the walls of the pump. The freshly sputtered chemically active cathode material acts as a getter that then evacuates the gas by both chemisorption and physisorption resulting in a net pumping action. Inert and lighter gases, such as He and H tend not to sputter and are absorbed by physisorption. Some fraction of the energetic gas ions (including gas that is not chemically active with the cathode material) can strike the cathode and acquire an electron from the surface, neutralizing it as it rebounds. These rebounding energetic neutrals are buried in exposed pump surfaces.\n\nBoth the pumping rate and capacity of such capture methods are dependent on the specific gas species being collected and the cathode material absorbing it. Some species, such as carbon monoxide, will chemically bind to the surface of a cathode material. Others, such as hydrogen, will diffuse into the metallic structure. In the former example, the pump rate can drop as the cathode material becomes coated. In the latter, the rate remains fixed by the rate at which the hydrogen diffuses.\n\nThere are three main types of ion pumps: the conventional or standard diode pump, the noble diode pump and the triode pump.\n\nA standard diode pump is a type of ion pump employed in high vacuum processes which contains only chemically active cathodes, in contrast to noble diode pumps.\n\nA noble diode pump is a type of ion pump used in high-vacuum applications that employs both a chemically reactive cathode, such as titanium, and an additional cathode composed of tantalum. The tantalum cathode serves as a high-inertia crystal lattice structure for the reflection and burial of neutrals, increasing pumping effectiveness of inert gas ions. Pumping intermittently high quantities of hydrogen with noble diodes should be done with great care, as hydrogen might over months get re-emitted out of the tantalum.\n\nIon pumps are commonly used in ultra-high vacuum (UHV) systems, as they can attain ultimate pressures less than 10 mbar. In contrast to other common UHV pumps, such as turbomolecular pumps and diffusion pumps, ion pumps have no moving parts and use no oil. They are therefore clean, need little maintenance, and produce no vibrations. These advantages make ion pumps well-suited for use in scanning probe microscopy and other high-precision apparatuses.\n\nRecent work has suggested that free radicals escaping from ion pumps can influence the results of some experiments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935286", "title": "Ionization instability", "text": "Ionization instability\n\nAn ionization instability is any one of a category of plasma instabilities which is mediated by electron-impact ionization. In the most general sense, an ionization instability occurs from a feedback effect, when electrons produced by ionization go on to produce still more electrons through ionization in a self-reinforcing way. \n\nIonization instabilities have been seen in such plasma physics apparatus as glow discharges, Penning discharges, magnetic nozzles, and MHD generators. Ionization instabilities may occur in magnetized or unmagnetized plasma. They occur mostly when the plasma is relatively cold and only partially ionized, so that there is a lot of neutral gas mixed in with the plasma.\n\nA glow discharge is a plasma-containing apparatus in which the plasma is formed by a large voltage placed across a rarefied gas. Glow discharges are used for electric lighting and materials processing. In a glow discharge, ionization instability takes the form of striations, or bands of enhanced and suppressed light production. The distance between each striation is the distance required for an electron to gain enough energy to ionize a neutral gas particle.\n\nA magnetic nozzle is an apparatus through which plasma flows, in which the plasma is constricted by a magnetic field. Magnetic nozzles are used in Electric propulsion to enhance the thrust produced by a stream of plasma. In magnetic nozzles, ionization instability is caused by ionization downstream of the nozzle, causing electrons born there to migrate upstream, counter to the direction of flow. This the plasma flow rate and energy through the nozzle to oscillate.\n\nAn MHD generator is an apparatus through which hot gas flows, in which the gas is ionized and a magnetic field is used to extract flow energy as electrical energy. MHD generators were studied mostly in the 1960s and 1970s to increase the efficiency of fossil-fueled and nuclear-fission power plants. In MHD generators, the specific kind of magnetized ionization instability is called the electrothermal instability. It was discovered by Evgeny Velikhov in 1962. The added electrical resistance caused by ionization instability thwarted a research effort to lower the required temperature by heating electrons preferentially.\n"}
{"id": "53090510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53090510", "title": "Iota Muscae", "text": "Iota Muscae\n\nThe Bayer designation ι Muscae (Iota Muscae) is shared by two stars in the constellation Musca:\n"}
{"id": "3254938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3254938", "title": "James King (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "James King (Royal Navy officer)\n\nCaptain James King (1750 – 16 November 1784) was an officer of the Royal Navy. He served under James Cook on his last voyage around the world, specialising in taking important astronomical readings using a sextant. After Cook died he helped lead the ships on the remainder of their course, also completing Cook's account of the voyage. He continued his career in the Navy, reaching the rank of post-captain, commanding several ships and serving in the American War of Independence.\n\nKing was born in Clitheroe, Lancashire, in 1750, the son of James King, who was at that time curate of St Mary Magdalene, Clitheroe. According to the parish registers young James King was baptised on 13 July 1750, presumably shortly after his birth. At an early age King entered Clitheroe Royal Grammar School, where he remained until he was 12 years old.\n\nKing entered the navy on 19 November 1762 under the patronage of his kinsman William Norton, serving under him first in as an able seaman, although in fact he was treated as a junior officer, and then as a midshipman in the \"William and Mary\". After further service as an able seaman or midshipman in and , King joined , Captain James Chads, on 15 March 1768 as an able seaman for service on the Newfoundland Station under Hugh Palliser, a commodore and friend and patron of James Cook, but there is no indication that Cook and King met at this time. It has been said that King served aboard in the Mediterranean under Captain John Jervis but there is no evidence of this.\n\nHaving passed for lieutenant on 7 March 1769, King was promoted to this rank on 10 January 1771, serving in several ships before being placed on half pay in May 1773. He was then granted leave to go abroad on his private affairs for one year, visiting Paris before joining his elder brother Thomas in Auxerre. This was followed by a period with his brother Walker King at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, where he was introduced to Thomas Hornsby, a priest and Savilian Professor of Astronomy, by his uncle by marriage, Fletcher Norton, 1st Baron Grantley, Speaker of the House of Commons and member of the Board of Longitude, who recommended him for Cook's third voyage.\n\nKing joined as second lieutenant, sharing the duties of astronomer with Cook, taking astronomical observations on board by sextant and with Larcum Kendal's timekeeper K1, to establish the \"Resolution\"s position at sea and on shore by sextant or by astronomical quadrant to establish the geographical position of salient points during the course of Cook's surveys. Thus King's geographical positions were an important contribution to the accuracy of the various surveys carried out during the voyage and his use of the early chronometers helped prove their use at sea for calculation of Longitude. .\n\nFollowing the death of Cook, King remained in the \"Resolution\" but on the death of Charles Clerke, Cook's successor, King was appointed to command , the \"Resolution\"s consort, remaining in her for the rest of the voyage. After his return to England King was very much involved in the publication of the official account of Cook's third voyage, writing the third volume at Woodstock, near Oxford, where his brother Thomas was rector of St Mary Magdalene. But shortly after his return King was promoted Post-captain and appointed commander of in the English Channel.\n\nThen towards the end of 1781 he was appointed commander of the 40-gun and escorted a fleet of merchantmen to the West Indies. he captured a French frigate, La Coquette, off Turks Island before returning to England at the end of the American Revolutionary War in 1783 with his health much impaired. He then returned to Woodstock to continue to work on Cook's third voyage. After the publication of the three-volume account of the voyage, advancing tuberculosis drove him to Nice, accompanied by his friends James Trevenen, who had served with him in the \"Resolution\" and \"Discovery\", and Captain William Young, who had served with him in the \"Guernsey\", where he died on 16 November 1784 at the age of 34, although the memorial tablet in Woodstock parish church states erroneously that he died in his 32nd year. He was made a Fellow of the Royal Society and in 1782 in recognition of his astronomical observations during Cook's third voyage he was also made an honorary L.L.D. Trinity College, Dublin, after donating his collection of Pacific Artifacts to the college.\n"}
{"id": "11498019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11498019", "title": "Jean-Pierre Hallet", "text": "Jean-Pierre Hallet\n\nJean-Pierre Hallet (1927 – 1 January 2004) was a Belgian (born in Africa) ethnologist, naturalist, and humanitarian known best for his extensive work with the Efé (Bambuti) pygmies of the Ituri Rainforest. He wrote the 1964 autobiographical book, \"Congo Kitabu\", the 1973 ethnologic book \"Pygmy Kitabu\" (a more detailed description of life with the Efé and neighboring pygmies), and the 1968 book \"Animal Kitabu,\" which details his extraordinary collection of animals in the Congo and in Kenya. He initiated the Pygmy Fund for the benefit of the Efé.\n\nJean-Pierre's father was André Hallet, a famous Belgian painter of African scenes. He lived on the shore of Lake Kivu, in modern Rwanda. Jean-Pierre, born in Africa, spent his early childhood there. He was then sent to Belgium with relatives for his \"formal\" education, which included the study of agronomy and sociology at the University of Brussels (1945–1946) and at the Sorbonne (1947–1948).\n\nDuring 1948 he returned to Central Africa to work as an agronomist with the Belgian Ministry of Colonies. It was in this capacity that he initially traveled throughout central Africa, interacting with various cultures and tribes.\n\nBoth the art works of André Hallet and many pieces from Jean-Pierre Hallet's African art collections have been sold at international art auctions. Jean-Pierre donated much of his Central African art collection to the UCLA African Art exhibit of the Museum of Cultural History (later renamed the Fowler Museum), which was part of the rationale for the museum's creation.\n\nDr. Hallet and his family owned one of the largest authentic Central African art shops in the United States—at the Third Street Promenade in Santa Monica, California, near Los Angeles—until the late 1990s. \nThe shop was managed by Hallet with his wife Liane Hallet, and two of his stepchildren, Janou Lightning and Kristina Hill. Some of the profit from these art sales was used to benefit the Efé pygmies.\n\nHe made many visits to the Eastern Congo region to visit the Efé (and friends he had made during several decades) and to further his goals of securing land and protection for the Efé. In one instance he was captured by rebel forces in Eastern Congo during the First Congo War and detained until Congolese troops were able to free him.\n\nHallet was awarded the National Order of the Leopard in Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) for his efforts on behalf of the Efé.\n\nDuring 1987, Jean-Pierre Hallet won the US Presidential End Hunger Award, and by 1994 the Pygmy Fund had reached 46% of their goal of securing of good farming land for the pygmies in the Congo.\n\nHe has received more than 100 awards and honors and has been a featured speaker internationally, including at the famous and exclusive Explorer's Club. He met with Dwight D. Eisenhower and for his humanitarian efforts has been described as the \"Abe Lincoln of the Congo.\"\n\nHe was nominated for the Nobel Peace prize for his work with the Pygmies.\n\n\"Congo Kitabu\", \"Pygmy Kitabu\", and \"Animal Kitabu\" have been translated into 21 languages, including Chinese and Russian, and a Reader's Digest version of \"Congo Kitabu\" was also released. The word \"kitabu\" means bible, or book, in Swahili.\n\nCongo Kitabu is an auto-biographical book about the travels of Jean-Pierre Hallet through central Africa from 1948 through 1960. In it he documents interactions with multiple isolated cultures throughout the Belgian Congo, Rwanda and Burundi regions. His accounts provide a unique anthropological source of information of the valley of the River Congo during that period.\n\nHe wrote about in detail of his encounters with the Luba people, the Kuba Kingdom, the Balega (in the historically cannibalistic areas of Maniema, including the Bwame secret society), the Efe Pygmies of the Ituri forest and the neighboring Balese, the Tutsi of Rwanda, the Maasai people of Kenya, the Bagoma people, and the pygmoid Bamosso of Burundi. He also had encounters with multiple other cultures, including the Balamba (near Zambia), the Bahutu (Rwanda), Bahunde, the Bambuba, the Batalinga, and the pygmoid Batwa of Rwanda.\n\nDr. Hallet's accounts include those of extensive personal participation with cultural activities of the region, including secretive and forbidden (by the Belgian colonial government) practices. In several chapters of the book are described some of his first encounters with the Efe pygmies of the Ituri forest.\n\nJean-Pierre was an avid collector of art and lover of animals as well, and the book is documented liberally with photographs from the period.\n\nThe collection of art that he collected during the described journeys in the book eventually became a large portion of the UCLA African Art premier exhibit in 1963 - 1965, when Dr. Hallet donated much of it to the university. This collection is now part of the UCLA Fowler museum.\n\nDr. Hallet also sold additional artifacts that he collected during the travels described in the book (and during many subsequent return visits to the Congo) and used the profits to help protect the Efé. He describes the events related to multiple significant artifacts, giving the reader a vivid background to their origin.\n\nPygmy Kitabu is based on the travels of Jean-Pierre Hallet through central Africa from 1948 through 1960 and his extensive interactions with the isolated Efé Pygmies of the Congo. It was first published during 1973, and was cowritten by Alex Pelle. Unlike his prior book, \"Congo Kitabu\", which chronicled his contacts and investigations into multiple groups in the Congo and nearby regions, \"Pygmy Kitabu\" is a detailed observational study primarily of the Efe Pygmies. Great detail and scientific observational method was used in the writing of the book.\n\nThe Efé Pygmies have been shown to be one of the oldest intact cultures on Earth by dNA studies, and this book is one of the few in-depth works detailing their extraordinary culture.\n\nThe book \"Pygmy Kitabu\" was reviewed by another expert on Mbuti pygmy culture, Colin Turnbull, and its contribution to knowledge of the pygmy culture acknowledged. It has also been used as a reference in a linguistics textbook. It has been referenced in multiple scholarly books, journals, and symposia.\n\nJean-Pierre raised multiple animals while living in Ruanda-Burundi, near the border of the Congo. He trained a lion, played ball with a rhino, and watched the courtship of his rhino and elephant. His extensive menagerie allowed him an insight into animal behaviour that is further explored in Animal Kitabu.\n\nDuring 1960, due to the increasing ethnic conflicts in the area, he was forced to take drastic measures on behalf of his beloved animals when he escaped to Kenya. There he faced new challenges and enlisted the aid of sympathetic allies to help care for his extended \"family.\" His amusing observations of animals (such as that of smartest cat—- the leopard) and man in Kenya and Uganda and some serendipitous nature photographs were published in magazines in Central Africa.\n\nDuring 1973, Jean-Pierre filmed a documentary named \"Pygmies\" that is one of the few movies that documents the customs of this disappearing culture. It was released simultaneously with the book \"Pygmy Kitabu\".\n\nFilmed during 1972 on location, the movie was originally titled \"Pygmies—- An Epic of the Golden Age\" and previewed at the Academy Award Theater in Los Angeles. However, the movie was rejected by major distributors for lack of commercial appeal and was limited to a small run by a local theater circuit in San Francisco, California (sponsored by the California Academy of Sciences and the San Francisco Zoologic Society).\n\nIt is listed in several movie databases and has been reviewed by the \"New York Times\".\n\nProduced by Jean-Pierre Hallet Productions (Belgium) during 1975 and distributed by the Encyclopædia Britannica Educational Corporation, \"The Pygmies of the Ituri Forest\" is the educational counterpart to the movie \"Pygmies\". It is available in libraries internationally.\n\nJean-Pierre appeared in the third episode of this ABC 1989 documentary series of people who go to unexpected extremes in amazing circumstances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "841792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841792", "title": "Kinetic art", "text": "Kinetic art\n\nKinetic art is art from any medium that contains movement perceivable by the viewer or depends on motion for its effect. Canvas paintings that extend the viewer's perspective of the artwork and incorporate multidimensional movement are the earliest examples of kinetic art. More pertinently speaking, kinetic art is a term that today most often refers to three-dimensional sculptures and figures such as mobiles that move naturally or are machine operated (see e. g. videos on this page of works of George Rickey, Uli Aschenborn and Sarnikoff). The moving parts are generally powered by wind, a motor or the observer. Kinetic art encompasses a wide variety of overlapping techniques and styles.\n\nThere is also a portion of kinetic art that includes virtual movement, or rather movement perceived from only certain angles or sections of the work. This term also clashes frequently with the term \"apparent movement\", which many people use when referring to an artwork whose movement is created by motors, machines, or electrically powered systems. Both apparent and virtual movement are styles of kinetic art that only recently have been argued as styles of op art. The amount of overlap between kinetic and op art is not significant enough for artists and art historians to consider merging the two styles under one umbrella term, but there are distinctions that have yet to be made.\n\n\"Kinetic art\" as a moniker developed from a number of sources. Kinetic art has its origins in the late 19th century impressionist artists such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas, and Édouard Manet who originally experimented with accentuating the movement of human figures on canvas. This triumvirate of impressionist painters all sought to create art that was more lifelike than their contemporaries. Degas’ dancer and racehorse portraits are examples of what he believed to be \"photographic realism\"; artists such as Degas in the late 19th century felt the need to challenge the movement toward photography with vivid, cadenced landscapes and portraits.\n\nBy the early 1900s, certain artists grew closer and closer to ascribing their art to dynamic motion. Naum Gabo, one of the two artists attributed to naming this style, wrote frequently about his work as examples of \"kinetic rhythm\". He felt that his moving sculpture \"Kinetic Construction\" (also dubbed \"Standing Wave\", 1919–20) was the first of its kind in the 20th century. From the 1920s until the 1960s, the style of kinetic art was reshaped by a number of other artists who experimented with mobiles and new forms of sculpture.\n\nThe strides made by artists to \"lift the figures and scenery off the page and prove undeniably that art is not rigid\" (Calder, 1954) took significant innovations and changes in compositional style. Édouard Manet, Edgar Degas, and Claude Monet were the three artists of the 19th century that initiated those changes in the Impressionist movement. Even though they each took unique approaches to incorporating movement in their works, they did so with the intention of being a realist. In the same period, Auguste Rodin was an artist whose early works spoke in support of the developing kinetic movement in art. However, Auguste Rodin's later criticisms of the movement indirectly challenged the abilities of Manet, Degas, and Monet, claiming that it is impossible to exactly capture a moment in time and give it the vitality that is seen in real life.\n\nIt is almost impossible to ascribe Manet's work to any one era or style of art. One of his works that is truly on the brink of a new style is \"Le Ballet Espagnol\" (1862). The figures' contours coincide with their gestures as a way to suggest depth in relation to one another and in relation to the setting. Manet also accentuates the lack of equilibrium in this work to project to the viewer that he or she is on the edge of a moment that is seconds away from passing. The blurred, hazy sense of color and shadow in this work similarly place the viewer in a fleeting moment.\n\nIn 1863, Manet extended his study of movement on flat canvas with \"Le déjeuner sur l'herbe\". The light, color, and composition are the same, but he adds a new structure to the background figures. The woman bending in the background is not completely scaled as if she were far away from the figures in the foreground. The lack of spacing is Manet's method of creating snapshot, near-invasive movement similar to his blurring of the foreground objects in \"Le Ballet Espagnol\".\n\nEdgar Degas is believed to be the intellectual extension of Manet, but more radical for the impressionist community. Degas' subjects are the epitome of the impressionist era; he finds great inspiration in images of ballet dancers and horse races. His \"modern subjects\" never obscured his objective of creating moving art. In his 1860 piece \"Jeunes Spartiates s'exerçant à la lutte\", he capitalizes on the classic impressionist nudes but expands on the overall concept. He places them in a flat landscape and gives them dramatic gestures, and for him this pointed to a new theme of \"youth in movement\".\n\nOne of his most revolutionary works, \"L’Orchestre de l’Opéra\" (1868) interprets forms of definite movement and gives them multidimensional movement beyond the flatness of the canvas. He positions the orchestra directly in the viewer’s space, while the dancers completely fill the background. Degas is alluding to the Impressionist style of combining movement, but almost redefines it in a way that was seldom seen in the late 1800s. In the 1870s, Degas continues this trend through his love of one shot motion horseraces in such works as \"Voiture aux Courses\" (1872).\n\nIt wasn’t until 1884 with \"Chevaux de Course\" that his attempt at creating dynamic art came to fruition. This work is part of a series of horse races and polo matches wherein the figures are well integrated into the landscape. The horses and their owners are depicted as if caught in a moment of intense deliberation, and then trotting away casually in other frames. The impressionist and overall artistic community were very impressed with this series, but were also shocked when they realized he based this series on actual photographs. Degas was not fazed by the criticisms of his integration of photography, and it actually inspired Monet to rely on similar technology.\n\nDegas and Monet's style was very similar in one way: both of them based their artistic interpretation on a direct \"retinal impression\" to create the feeling of variation and movement in their art. The subjects or images that were the foundation of their paintings came from an objective view of the world. As with Degas, many art historians consider that to be the subconscious effect photography had in that period of time. His 1860s works reflected many of the signs of movement that are visible in Degas' and Manet's work.\n\nBy 1875, Monet's touch becomes very swift in his new series, beginning with \"Le Bâteau-Atelier sur la Seine\". The landscape almost engulfs the whole canvas and has enough motion emanating from its inexact brushstrokes that the figures are a part of the motion. This painting along with \"Gare Saint-Lazare\" (1877-1878), proves to many art historians that Monet was redefining the style of the Impressionist era. Impressionism initially was defined by isolating color, light, and movement. In the late 1870s, Monet had pioneered a style that combined all three, while maintaining a focus on the popular subjects of the Impressionist era. Artists were often so struck by Monet's wispy brushstrokes that it was more than movement in his paintings, but a \"striking vibration\".\n\nAuguste Rodin at first was very impressed by Monet's 'vibrating works' and Degas' unique understanding of spatial relationships. As an artist and an author of art reviews, Rodin published multiple works supporting this style. He claimed that Monet and Degas' work created the illusion \"that art captures life through good modeling and movement\". In 1881, when Rodin first sculpted and produced his own works of art, he rejected his earlier notions. Sculpting put Rodin into a predicament that he felt no philosopher nor anyone could ever solve; how can artists impart movement and dramatic motions from works so solid as sculptures? After this conundrum occurred to him, he published new articles that didn't attack men such as Manet, Monet, and Degas intentionally, but propagated his own theories that Impressionism is not about communicating movement but presenting it in static form.\n\nThe surrealist style of the 20th century created an easy transition into the style of kinetic art. All artists now explored subject matter that would not have been socially acceptable to depict artistically. Artists went beyond solely painting landscapes or historical events, and felt the need to delve into the mundane and the extreme to interpret new styles. With the support of artists such as Albert Gleizes, other avant-garde artists such as Jackson Pollock and Max Bill felt as if they had found new inspiration to discover oddities that became the focus of kinetic art.\n\nGleizes was considered the ideal philosopher of the late 19th century and early 20th century arts in Europe, and more specifically France. His theories and treatises from 1912 on cubism gave him a renowned reputation in any artistic discussion. This reputation is what allowed him to act with considerable influence when supporting the plastic style or the rhythmic movement of art in the 1910s and 1920s. Gleizes published a theory on movement, which further articulated his theories on the psychological, artistic uses of movement in conjunction with the mentality that arises when considering movement. Gleizes asserted repeatedly in his publications that human creation implies the total renunciation of external sensation. That to him is what made art mobile when to many, including Rodin, it was rigidly and unflinchingly immobile.\n\nGleizes first stressed the necessity for rhythm in art. To him, rhythm meant the visually pleasant coinciding of figures in a two-dimensional or three-dimensional space. Figures should be spaced mathematically, or systematically so that they appeared to interact with one another. Figures should also not have features that are too definite. They need to have shapes and compositions that are almost unclear, and from there the viewer can believe that the figures themselves are moving in that confined space. He wanted paintings, sculptures, and even the flat works of mid-19th-century artists to show how figures could impart on the viewer that there was great movement contained in a certain space. As a philosopher, Gleizes also studied the concept of artistic movement and how that appealed to the viewer. Gleizes updated his studies and publications through the 1930s, just as kinetic art was becoming popular.\n\nWhen Jackson Pollock created many of his famous works, the United States was already at the forefront of the kinetic art movement. The novel styles and methods he used to create his most famous pieces earned him the spot in the 1950s as the unchallenged leader of kinetic painters, his work was associated with Action painting coined by art critic Harold Rosenberg in the 1950s. Pollock had an unfettered desire to animate every aspect of his paintings. Pollock repeatedly said to himself, \"I am in every painting\". He used tools that most painters would never use, such as sticks, trowels, and knives. The shapes he created were what he thought was \"beautiful, erratic objects\".\n\nThis style evolved into his drip technique. Pollock repeatedly took buckets of paint and paintbrushes and flicked them around until the canvas was covered with squiggly lines and jagged strokes. In the next phase of his work, Pollock tested his style with uncommon materials. He painted his first work with aluminum paint in 1947, titled \"Cathedral\" and from there he tried his first \"splashes\" to destroy the unity of the material itself. He believed wholeheartedly that he was liberating the materials and structure of art from their forced confinements, and that is how he arrived at the moving or kinetic art that always existed. \n\nMax Bill became an almost complete disciple of the kinetic movement in the 1930s. He believed that kinetic art should be executed from a purely mathematical perspective. To him, using mathematics principles and understandings were one of the few ways that you could create objective movement. This theory applied to every artwork he created and how he created it. Bronze, marble, copper, and brass were four of the materials he used in his sculptures. He also enjoyed tricking the viewer’s eye when he or she first approached one of his sculptures. In his \"Construction with Suspended Cube\" (1935-1936) he created a mobile sculpture that generally appears to have perfect symmetry, but once the viewer glances at it from a different angle, there are aspects of asymmetry. \n\nMax Bill’s sculptures were only the beginning of the style of movement that kinetic explored. Tatlin, Rodchenko, and Calder especially took the stationary sculptures of the early 20th century and gave them the slightest freedom of motion. These three artists began with testing unpredictable movement, and from there tried to control the movement of their figures with technological enhancements. The term \"mobile\" comes from the ability to modify how gravity and other atmospheric conditions affect the artist’s work.\n\nAlthough there is very little distinction between the styles of mobiles in kinetic art, there is one distinction that can be made. Mobiles are no longer considered mobiles when the spectator has control over their movement. This is one of the features of virtual movement. When the piece only moves under certain circumstances that are not natural, or when the spectator controls the movement even slightly, the figure operates under virtual movement.\n\nKinetic art principles have also influenced mosaic art. For instance, kinetic-influenced mosaic pieces often use clear distinctions between bright and dark tiles, with three-dimensional shape, to create apparent shadows and movement.\n\nVladimir Tatlin is considered by many artists and art historians to be the first person to ever complete a mobile sculpture. The term mobile wasn't coined until Rodchenko's time, but is very applicable to Tatlin's work. His mobile is a series of suspended reliefs that only need a wall or a pedestal, and it would forever stay suspended. This early mobile, \"Contre-Reliefs Libérés Dans L'espace\" (1915) is judged as an incomplete work. It was a rhythm, much similar to the rhythmic styles of Pollock, that relied on the mathematical interlocking of planes that created a work freely suspended in air. \n\nTatlin never felt that his art was an object or a product that needed a clear beginning or a clear end. He felt above anything that his work was an evolving process. Many artists whom he befriended considered the mobile truly complete in 1936, but he disagreed vehemently. \n\nAlexander Rodchenko, one of Tatlin’s friends who insisted his work was complete, continued the study of suspended mobiles and created what he deemed to be \"non-objectivism\". This style was a study less focused on mobiles than on canvas paintings and objects that were immoveable. It focuses on juxtaposing objects of different materials and textures as a way to spark new ideas in the mind of the viewer. By creating discontinuity with the work, the viewer assumed that the figure was moving off the canvas or the medium to which it was restricted. One of his canvas works titled \"Dance, an Objectless Composition\" (1915) embodies that desire to place items and shapes of different textures and materials together to create an image that drew in the viewer’s focus.\n\nHowever, by the 1920s and 1930s, Rodchenko found a way to incorporate his theories of non-objectivism in mobile study. His 1920 piece \"Hanging Construction\" is a wood mobile that hangs from any ceiling by a string and rotates naturally. This mobile sculpture has concentric circles that exist in several planes, but the entire sculpture only rotates horizontally and vertically.\n\nAlexander Calder is an artist who many believe to have defined firmly and exactly the style of mobiles in kinetic art. Over years of studying his works, many critics allege that Calder was influenced by a wide variety of sources. Some claim that Chinese windbells were objects that closely resembled the shape and height of his earliest mobiles. Other art historians argue that the 1920s mobiles of Man Ray, including \"Shade\" (1920) had a direct influence on the growth of Calder’s art.\n\nWhen Calder first heard of these claims, he immediately admonished his critics. \"I have never been and never will be a product of anything more than myself. My art is my own, why bother stating something about my art that isn’t true?\" One of Calder’s first mobiles, \"Mobile\" (1938) was the work that \"proved\" to many art historians that Man Ray had an obvious influence on Calder’s style. Both \"Shade\" and \"Mobile\" have a single string attached to a wall or a structure that keeps it in the air. The two works have a crinkled feature that vibrates when air passes through it.\n\nRegardless of the obvious similarities, Calder’s style of mobiles created two types that are now referred to as the standard in kinetic art. There are object-mobiles and suspended mobiles. Object mobiles on supports come in a wide range of shapes and sizes, and can move in any way. Suspended mobiles were first made with colored glass and small wooden objects that hung on long threads. Object mobiles were a part of Calder’s emerging style of mobiles that were originally stationary sculptures.\n\nIt can be argued, based on their similar shape and stance, that Calder’s earliest object mobiles have very little to do with kinetic art or moving art. By the 1960s, most art critics believed that Calder had perfected the style of object mobiles in such creations as the \"Cat Mobile\" (1966). In this piece, Calder allows the cat’s head and its tail to be subject to random motion, but its body is stationary. Calder did not start the trend in suspended mobiles, but he was the artist that became recognized for his apparent originality in mobile construction.\n\nOne of his earliest suspended mobiles, \"McCausland Mobile\" (1933), is different from many other contemporary mobiles simply because of the shapes of the two objects. Most mobile artists such as Rodchenko and Tatlin would never have thought to use such shapes because they didn’t seem malleable or even remotely aerodynamic.\n\nDespite the fact that Calder did not divulge most of the methods he used when creating his work, he admitted that he used mathematical relationships to make them. He only said that he created a balanced mobile by using direct variation proportions of weight and distance. Calder’s formulas changed with every new mobile he made, so other artists could never precisely imitate the work.\n\nBy the 1940s, new styles of mobiles as well as many types of sculpture and paintings incorporated the control of the spectator. Artists such as Calder, Tatlin, and Rodchenko produced more art through the 1960s, but they were also competing against other artists who appealed to different audiences. When artists such as Victor Vasarely developed a number of the first features of virtual movement in their art, kinetic art faced heavy criticism. This criticism lingered for years until the 1960s, when kinetic art was in a dormant period.\n\nVasarely created many works that were considered to be interactive in the 1940s. One of his works \"Gordes/Cristal\" (1946) is a series of cubic figures that are also electrically powered. When he first showed these figures at fairs and art exhibitions, he invited people up to the cubic shapes to press the switch and start the color and light show. Virtual movement is a style of kinetic art that can be associated with mobiles, but from this style of movement there are two more specific distinctions of kinetic art.\n\nApparent movement is a term ascribed to kinetic art that evolved only in the 1950s. Art historians believed that any type of kinetic art that was mobile independent of the viewer has apparent movement. This style includes works that range from Pollock’s drip technique all the way to Tatlin’s first mobile. By the 1960s, other art historians developed the phrase \"op art\" to refer to optical illusions and all optically stimulating art that was on canvas or stationary. This phrase often clashes with certain aspects of kinetic art that include mobiles that are generally stationary.\n\nIn 1955, for the exhibition \"Mouvements\" at the Denise René gallery in Paris, Victor Vasarely and Pontus Hulten promoted in their \"Yellow manifesto\" some new kinetic expressions based on optical and luminous phenomenon as well as painting illusionism. The expression \"kinetic art\" in this modern form first appeared at the Museum für Gestaltung of Zürich in 1960, and found its major developments in the 1960s. In most European countries, it generally included the form of optical art that mainly makes use of optical illusions, such as op art, represented by Bridget Riley, as well as art based on movement represented by Yacov Agam, Carlos Cruz-Diez, Jesús Rafael Soto, Gregorio Vardanega, or Nicolas Schöffer. From 1961 to 1968, GRAV (\"Groupe de Recherche d’Art Visuel\") founded by François Morellet, Julio Le Parc, Francisco Sobrino, Horacio Garcia Rossi, Yvaral, Joël Stein and Vera Molnár was a collective group of opto-kinetic artists. According to its 1963 manifesto, GRAV appealed to the direct participation of the public with an influence on its behavior, notably through the use of interactive labyrinths.\n\nIn November 2013, the MIT Museum opened \"5000 Moving Parts\", an exhibition of kinetic art, featuring the work of Arthur Ganson, Anne Lilly, Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, John Douglas Powers, and Takis. The exhibition inaugurates a \"year of kinetic art\" at the Museum, featuring special programming related to the artform.\n\nNeo-kinetic art has been popular in China where you can find interactive kinetic sculptures in many public places, including Wuhu International Sculpture Park and in Beijing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47083530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47083530", "title": "List of Cordia species", "text": "List of Cordia species\n\n\"Cordia\" is a genus in the borage family (Boraginaceae).\n\n, The Plant List accepts the following species:\n"}
{"id": "43216561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43216561", "title": "List of Dungeons &amp; Dragons 5th edition monsters", "text": "List of Dungeons &amp; Dragons 5th edition monsters\n\n\"Dungeons & Dragons\" 5th edition (see editions of \"Dungeons & Dragons\") was released in 2014. The first product containing monsters was the \"Dungeons & Dragons Starter Set\". The \"Monster Manual\" for this edition was scheduled for release in September 2014.\nThe \"Dungeons & Dragons Starter Set\" is the first official product from the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It includes the introductory adventure module \"Lost Mine of Phandelver\", which contains rules and descriptions for monsters in Appendix B.\n\nThe \"Player's Handbook\" is one of the core rulebooks for the Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition, published in 2014. An assortment of monsters, associated with class traits and spells, are described in Appendix D.\n\n\"Hoard of the Dragon Queen\" is the first adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for some of the monsters described in the module in Appendix B; the rest are in an online supplement.\n\nThe \"Monster Manual\" is one of the core rulebooks for the Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition, published in 2014. The book features an introduction on pages 4–11, the monster descriptions on pages 12–316, an appendix of Miscellaneous Creatures on pages 317–341, and a second appendix of Nonplayer Characters on pages 342–350.\n\nA list of the monsters by Challenge Rating was not included in the book, and was instead posted on Wizards of the Coast's web site. The list was also provided in the 5th edition \"Dungeon Master's Guide\".\n\n\"The Rise of Tiamat\" is the second adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line, following \"Hoard of the Dragon Queen\". It contains statistics for some of the monsters described in the module in Appendix A; the rest are in an online supplement.\n\n\"Princes of the Apocalypse\" is the third adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for some of the monsters described in the module in Chapter 7; the rest are in an online supplement.\n\n\"Out of the Abyss\" is the fourth adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for the new monsters described in the module in Appendix C, and statistics for Demon Lords in Appendix D.\n\n\"Curse of Strahd\" is the fifth adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for the new monsters described in the module in Appendix D.\n\n\"Storm King's Thunder\" is the sixth adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for the new monsters described in the module in Appendix C.\n\n\"Volo's Guide to Monsters\" introduces nearly 100 monsters to the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. The book features a preface on page 4, a chapter on monster lore on pages 5–102, a chapter on character races on pages 103–120, new monster descriptions on pages 121–206, an appendix of Assorted Beasts on pages 207–208, a second appendix of Nonplayer Characters on pages 209–220, and a third appendix of Monster Lists on pages 221–224.\n\n\"Tales from the Yawning Portal\" is the seventh adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for the new monsters described in the module in Appendix B.\n\n\"Tomb of Annihilation\" is the eighth adventure module for the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. It contains statistics for the new monsters described in the module in Appendix D.\n\n\"Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes\" introduces over 100 monsters to the 5th edition \"Dungeons & Dragons\" line. The book features a preface on page 4, a chapter on the Blood War on pages 5–34, a chapter on Elves on pages 35–63, a chapter on Dwarves and Duergar on pages 65–83, a chapter on Gith on pages 85–97, a chapter on Halflings and Gnomes on pages 99–114, new monster descriptions on pages 115–252, and an appendix of Monster Lists on pages 253–256. One contribution to the book, the Oblex, was created by Make-A-Wish Foundation recipient Nolan Whale.\n"}
{"id": "49479447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49479447", "title": "List of Hypericum species", "text": "List of Hypericum species\n\nThe genus Hypericum contains approximately 500 species which are divided into 36 sections as described by botanist Norman Robson. This division into distinct sections is largely due to the fact that a genus-wide monograph was performed by Robson in 1977, which allowed for a comprehensive breakdown of the genus's taxonomy. A phylogenetic study was more recently scompleted for the genus, which gave evidence to suggest that the genus \"Triadenum\" is a clade within \"Hypericum\" and that the genus \"Thornea\" is sister to \"Hypericum\". In addition, the study found that about 60% of the sections of \"Hypericum\" are monophyletic.\n\n\"Hypericum\" species can be found all over the world in temperate to tropical areas. The genus is most populous in China (~60 species) and Eastern Asia, as well as across Central Europe, Turkey (~80 species), and the Middle East. The genus has also been introduced into various regions of the United States and Argentina. The genus are generally found in dry, desert areas to being in shallow water, and can be found from warm temperate climates to cold temperate climates.\n\nAlmost all species of \"Hypericum\" are either perennial herbs, shrubs, or small trees, but the genus also contains a small amount of suffruticose and annual herbs. Most of its species contain hypericin or hyperforin and some are used for their healing properties in folk medicine. The species' leaves are always placed opposite, and are normally decussate. Their flowers are generally homostylous, but very few are dimorphically heterostylous. The petals are normally golden yellow or orange, but some are white or cream, and are veined dorsally. They have 4-5 stamen fascicles, 2-5 ovaries, and 2-5 styles. Some species grow capsular fruit which are colored red or blackish.\n\nSome \"Hypericum\" species are used as ornamental plants because of their large, spreading flowers. These include \"H. aegypticum\", \"H. androsaemum\", \"H. calycinum\", and \"H. olympicum\". In addition, there are a number of hybrids and cultivars that have been developed for use in horticulture. Some notable cultivars are \"H. × moserianum\", \"H.\" 'Hidcote', and \"H.\" 'Rowallane'. Several species are also used for their medicinal properties, especially their ability to alleviate mild clinical depression, by drawing out the oily extract from the flowers. \"H. perforatum\" is the most potent out of all the species, and is the only species cultivated commercially for herbalism and medicine.\n\n\"Adenosepalum\" is divided into four subsections: \"Adenosepalum\", \"Aethiopica\", \"Caprifolia\", and the Huber-Morathii Group. These subsections contain eight, seven, eleven, and five species, respectively, giving the section \"Adenosepalum\" a total of thirty-one species. In addition, \"Adenosepalum\" contains two Nothospecies: \"H.\" × \"joerstadii\" and \"H. pubescens\" × \"tomentosum\". \"H. annulatum\" has 3 distinct subspecies.\n\n\"Adenosepalum\" is made up of primarily perennial herbs, and also includes shrubs and shrublets. Its species grow to be approximately 2.5 meters tall, and are generally deciduous. Species in \"Adenosepalum\" are glabrous or have simple hairs, and almost always have dark black glands on their leaves, sepals, and rarely on their petals and stems. Their leaves are placed opposite and have no ventral glands. Their flowers are stellate or homostylous. They have 5 sepals, 5 stamen fascicles, and 5 petals.\n\n\"Adenotrias\" contains three species: \"H. aciferum\", \"H. aegypticum\", and \"H. russeggeri\". Its type species is \"H. russeggeri\". It is not divided into any subsections. \"H. aegypticum\" has three subspecies: \"H. aegypticum aegypticum\" , \"H. aegypticum maroccanum\" , and \"H. aegypticum webbii\" .\n\n\"Adenotrias\" contains shrubs and shrublets. Its species can grow to be up to 2 meters tall. Its species are glabrous, but have no dark glands. Their leaves are lined and glandular, and are cortex green. Their flowers are almost tubular, and are heterostylous. They have 5 sepals, 5 petals, and 3 stamen fascicles.\n\n\"Androsaemum\" contains four species: \"H. androsaemum\", \"H. foliosum\", \"H. grandifolium\", and \"H. hircinum\". In addition, \"Androsaemum\" contains one Nothospecies: \"H.\" × \"inodorum.\" It is not divided into subsections. Its type species is \"H. androsaemum\". One of its species, \"H. grandifolium\", has five different subspecies. The section's species are often collectively referred to as Tutsan.\n\n\"Androsaemum\" contains shrubs that grow to be from 0.3–2 meters tall. Its species are deciduous and glabrous, but have no dark glands. Their leaves are opposite, decussate, free, and are a pale color. Every species has 20 flowers, branching out from 2 separate nodes, which are homostylous. They have 5 sepals, 5 petals, and 5 stamen fascicles.\n\n\"Arthrophyllum\" contains five species, and is not divided into any subsections. Its type species is \"H. rupestre\". \"Arthrophyllum\" is most closely related to \"Webbia\".\n\n\"Arthrophyllum\" contains shrubs that grow to be approximately 0.9 meters tall and are deciduous but never leafless. Species in \"Arthrophyllum\" are glabrous, with reddish to dark glands. Their leaves are placed opposite and are either decussate, sessile, free, or perfoliate and have no ventral glands. They are 40-flowered, and their flowers are stellate and homostylous. They have 5 sepals that lack marginal glands. \"Arthrophyllum's\" species also have 5 petals and 3 stamen fascicles, each with 20-40 stamens. Their seeds are narrow and cylindrical.\n\n\"Ascyreia\" contains exactly 50 species and also includes 4 nothospecies. The section is one of the largest in the genus that is not divided into any subsections. Its type species is \"H. calycinum\". The section is synonymous with \"Norysca\" .\n\n\"Ascyreia\" is made up of mostly shrubs or shrublets, but also contains a few trees. Its species generally grow to be from 4–5 meters tall. Some of the species are evergreen, but most are deciduous. They are glabrous, and lack dark glands. Their leaves are opposite, decussate, and free. The section's species have anywhere from 1-25 flowers, which are stellate and homostylous. They have 5 sepals, which are free. They also have 5 petals and 5 stamen fascicles, which each have 20-100 stamens. Their seeds are cylindric or ellipsoid, and some are laterally winged.\n\n\"Brathys\" is the largest section in \"Hypericum\". It is divided into four subsections: \"Brathys\", \"Phellotes\", \"Spachium\", and \"Styphelioides\". \"Brathys\" contains 38 species and the type species, \"H. juniperinum\". \"Phellotes\" contains 32 species, \"Spachium\" contains 14 species, and \"Styphelioides\" contains just 2 species. In total, the section contains 86 species.\n\n\"Brathys\" contains a wide variety of plants, including small trees, shrubs, shrublets, and herbs. The largest species in the section grow to be 6 meters tall, and are evergreen. Its species are glabrous—though a few have simple hairs—and lack any dark glands. Their stems are either 4 or 6-lined, and are compressed when the plant is young, but later become terete. Their leaves are placed opposite, are decussate and sessile, and have dense marginal glands. All the species have either one flower on the uppermost node of the plant or 2-15 flowers branching from the uppermost node and from lower secondary nodes. The flowers are stellate or sometimes obconic, and are homostylous. The species have 5 petals which are persistent. They have 5 stamen fascicles which contain anywhere from 1-50 stamens each, formed in a tight ring, to give the plants a total of anywhere from 5-250 stamens. The plants have 5 ovaries, 5 sepals, and 3-5 styles.\n\n\"Bupleuroides\" contains one species, \"H. bupleuroides\", which shares the name of the section.\n\n\"H. bupleuroides\" is a perennial herb that grows to be approximately 75 centimeters tall. The species' stems sprout from branching rhizomes, and are glabrous and lack dark glands. The leaves are placed opposite and are terete and are perfoliate. It has anywhere from 4-25 flowers that branch from 1-5 nodes and are stellate and homostylous and have 5 petals. There are either 3 or 4 stamen fascicles with 20-25 stamens each. The species has 5 sepals, 3 ovaries, and 3 styles.\n\n\"Campylopus\" contains one species, \"H. cerastioides,\" which is also frequently called \"H. campylopus\". This species is widely cultivated for its vibrant flowers. The section is most closely related to \"Olympia\" and \"Oligostema\".\n\n\"Campylosporus\" contains 10 species from Africa and the Middle East. Its type species is \"H. lanceolatum\".\n\nThe section contains primarily shrubs and trees that can be spreading or grow up to 12 meters tall. They are all evergreen and may or may not have dark glands along the branches. Most species have bark which is fissured and scaly. The species have many flowers which are homostylous. They have 5 sepals, 5 petals, and 5 stamen fascicles which each have 20-45 stamens.\n\n\"Concinna\" contains one species, \"H. concinnum\", which is commonly known as Goldwire.\n\n\"Crossophyllum\" contains 4 species of perennial herbs. Its type species is \"H. orientale\". The other species in the section are \"H. adenotrichum\", \"H. aucheri\", and \"H. thasium\".\n\nSpecies in \"Crossophyllum\" grow to be around 55 centimeters tall. They are glabrous, and their stems are erect from a rooting base. Their flowers also branch from the base and sometimes from intermediate nodes. The species have anywhere from 1 to 50 flowers which are stellate and homostylous. Their stems are narrow and eglandular and have dark black or amber glands on raised lines. The leaves are placed opposite and are free and decussate. The species have 5 sepals, 5 petals, and 3 or 5 stamen fascicles with 10-20 stamens each.\n\n\"Drosocarpium\" contains small perennial herbs that are found near the Mediterranean. \"H. richeri\" has 3 subspecies.\n\n\"Elodeoida\" contains 7 species of annual and perennial herbs. Its type species is \"H. elodeoides\".\n\n\"Graveolentia\" is a diverse section whose type species is \"H. graveolens\".\n\n\"Heterophylla\" contains a single shrublet, \"H. heterophyllum,\" from which the section derives its name.\n\n\"Hirtella\" contains perennial herbs averaging 80 cm in height.\n\n\"Humifusoideum\" , also called \"Pulogensia\", contains 6 species. Its type species is \"H. peplidifolium\". \"H. beccarii\" has two subspecies: \"H. beccarii beccarii\" and \"H. beccarii steenisii\".\n\n\"Hypericum\", sometimes referred to as the \"type section\" of the genus, contains perennial herbs and very few suffrutices.\n\n\"Inodora\" contains one species, a shrub called \"H. xylosteifolium\" or sometimes \"H. inodorum\".\n\n\"H. xylosteifolium\" grows to be approximately 1.5 meters, and is a deciduous plant. It typically has anywhere from 1-7 flowers, which are terminal and sometimes have subsidiary branches. The flowers are 1.5–3 cm in diameter and are stellate and rounded. Its anthers are yellow-orange and its stamen are in fascicles in groups of 10-11.\n\n\"Monanthema\" contains 7 perennial herbs that grow up to 40 cm tall. One of its species, \"H. monanthemum\", has two subspecies: \"H. monanthemum filicaule and H. monanthemum monanthemum.\"\n\n\"Myriandra\" contains shrubs, shrublets, and perennial herbs that grow to be up to 4.5 m.\n\n\"Oligostema\" consists of perennial and annual herbs up to 75 cm tall.\n\n\"Olympia\" contains four dwarf shrubs. Its type species is \"H. olympicum\".\n\n\"Origanifolia\" contains 13 species of shrub-like perennial herbs. Its type species is \"H. origanifolium\".\n\n\"Psorophytum\" contains a single species, \"H. balearicum\".\n\n\"Roscyna\" contains 2 species: its type species, \"H. ascyron\", and \"H. przewalskii\". \"Roscyna\" was once considered to be its own individual genus which contained only the two species. \"H. ascyron\" has two subspecies, \"H. ascyron ascyron\" and \"H. ascyron gebleri\".\n\n\"Sampsonia\" two species: its type species, \"H. sampsonii\", and \"H. assamicum\".\n\n\"Santomasia\" contains a single species, \"H. steyermarkii\".\n\n\"Taeniocarpium\" contains small wiry perennial herbs up to 1.1 meters tall.\n\n\"Takasagoya\" contains deciduous shrubs and shrublets that grow up to 1.5 m tall.\n\n\"Triadenoides\" contains 7 species. \"H. haplophylloides\" has two subspecies: \"H. haplophylloides haplophylloides\" and \"H. haplophylloides devollense\".\n\n\"Trigynobrathys\" contains shrubs and subshrubs as well as annual and perennial herbs that are very diverse in size and shape.\n\n\"Tripentas\" contains one long-stemmed perennial herb, \"H. elodes\". \"Tripentas\" is sometimes separated into its own genus under the synonyms \"Elodes\" \"Martia\" \"Perforaria\" \"Spachelodes\" or \"Tripentas\" .\n\n\"Umbraculoides\" contains a single species, \"H. umbraculoides\", for which the section is named. It is closely related to sect. Ascyreia.\n\n\"Webbia\" contains a large deciduous shrub that can grow up to 4 meters tall.\n\n\"Hypericum\" fossils have been found from the Late Eocene to the present day, with the most commonly found part of the plant being the seeds due to their hardiness. However, a small number of leaves and even pollen have also been found as fossils. The oldest fossil recovered was a seed belonging to the species \"H. antiquum\" which was found in Northern Asia. This species is considered to be the common ancestor of the family Hypericaceae.\n"}
{"id": "7105651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7105651", "title": "List of Salticidae species (A–C)", "text": "List of Salticidae species (A–C)\n\nList of Salticidae species A–C includes all described species with a scientific name starting from A to C of the spider family Salticidae as of December 16, 2016.\n\n\"Abracadabrella\" \n\n\"Acragas\" \n\n\"Admestina\" \n\n\"Admesturius\" \n\n\"Adoxotoma\" \n\n\"Aelurillus\" \n\n\"Afraflacilla\" \n\n\"Afrobeata\" \n\n\"Afromarengo\" \n\n\"Agelista\" \n\n\"Agobardus\" \n\n\"Agorius\" \n\n\"Aillutticus\" \n\n\"Ajaraneola\" \n\n\"Akela\" \n\n\"Albionella\" \n\n\"Alcmena\" \n\n\"Alfenus\" \n\n\"Allococalodes\" \n\n\"Allodecta\" \n\n\"Amatorculus\" \n\n\n\"Amycus\" \n\n\"Ananeon\" \n\n\"Anarrhotus\" \n\nSee \"Anasaitis\" § Species.\n\n\"Anaurus\" \n\"Ancepitilobus\" \n\n\"Anicius\" \n\n\"Anokopsis\" \n\"Ansienulina\" \n\n\"Antillattus\" \n\n\"Aphirape\" \n\n\"Arachnomura\" \n\n\"Arachnotermes\" \n\n\"Araegeus\" \n\n\"Araneotanna\" \n\n\"Arasia\" \n\n\"Arnoliseus\" \n\n\"Artabrus\" \n\n\"Aruana\" \n\n\"Aruattus\" \n\n\"Asaracus\" \n\n\"Ascyltus\" \n\n\"Asemonea\" \n\n\"Ashtabula\" \n\n\"Asianellus\" \n\n\"Astia\" \n\n\"Astilodes\" \n\n\"Atelurius\" \n\n\"Athamas\" \n\n\"Atomosphyrus\" \n\n\"Attidops\" \n\n\"Attulus\" \n\n\"Augustaea\" \n\n\"Avarua\" \n\n\"Avitus\" \n\n\"Bacelarella\" \n\n\"Bagheera\" \n\n\"Ballognatha\" \n\n\"Ballus\" \n\n\"Balmaceda\" \n\n\"Banksetosa\" \n\n\"Barraina\" \n\n\"Baryphas\" \n\n\"Bathippus\" \n\n\"Bavia\" \n\n\"Baviola\" \n\n\"Beata\" \n\n\"Belippo\" \n\n\"Belliena\" \n\n\"Bellota\" \n\n\"Bianor\" \n\n\"Bindax\" \n\n\"Bocus\" \n\n\"Bokokius\" \n\n\"Brancus\" \n\nSee \"Breda\" § Species.\n\n\"Bredana\" \n\n\"Brettus\" \n\n\"Bristowia\" \n\n\"Bryantella\" \n\n\"Bulolia\" \n\n\"Burmattus\" \n\n\"Bythocrotus\" \n\n\"Calositticus\" \n\n\"Canama\" \n\n\"Capeta\" \n\n\"Capeyorkia\" \n\n\"Capidava\" \n\n\"Carabella\" \n\n\"Caribattus\" \n\n\"Carrhotus\" \n\n\"Cavillator\" \n\n\"Ceglusa\" \n\n\"Cembalea\" \n\n\"Ceriomura\" \n\n\"Cerionesta\" \n\n\"Chalcolecta\" \n\n\"Chalcolemia\" \n\n\"Chalcoscirtus\" \n\n\"Chalcotropis\" \n\n\"Chapoda\" \n\"Charippus\" \n\n\"Cheliceroides\" \n\n\"Cheliferoides\" \n\n\"Chinattus\" \n\n\"Chinophrys\" \n\n\"Chinoscopus\" \n\n\"Chira\" \n\n\"Chirothecia\" \n\n\"Chrysilla\" \n\n\"Clynotis\" \n\n\"Clynotoides\" \n\n\"Cocalodes\" \n\n\"Cocalus\" \n\n\"Coccorchestes\" \n\n\"Colaxes\" \n\nSee \"Colyttus\" § Species.\n\n\"Commoris\" \n\nSee \"Compsodecta\" § Species.\n\n\"Copocrossa\" \n\n\"Corambis\" \n\n\"Corcovetella\" \n\n\"Corticattus\" \n\n\"Corusca\" \n\nSee \"Coryphasia\" § Species.\n\n\"Corythalia\" \n\n\"Cosmophasis\" \n\n\"Cotinusa\" \n\n\"Cucudeta\" \n\n\"Curubis\" \n\n\"Cylistella\" \n\n\"Cyllodania\" \n\n\"Cynapes\" \n\n\"Cyrba\" \n\n\"Cytaea\" \n\n"}
{"id": "5893932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893932", "title": "List of Telemidae species", "text": "List of Telemidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Telemidae as of Sept. 14, 2013.\n\n\"Apneumonella\" \n\n\"Cangoderces\" \n\n\"Jocquella\" \n\n\"Pinelema\" \n\n\"Seychellia\" \n\n\"Telema\" \n\n\"Telemofila\" \n\n\"Usofila\" \n\n"}
{"id": "12114730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12114730", "title": "List of bird genera", "text": "List of bird genera\n\nList of bird genera concerns the chordata class of aves or birds, characterised by feathers, a beak with no teeth, the laying of hard-shelled eggs, a high metabolic rate\n\n"}
{"id": "30591782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30591782", "title": "List of mangrove tree species of Australia", "text": "List of mangrove tree species of Australia\n"}
{"id": "364840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364840", "title": "List of national parks", "text": "List of national parks\n\nThis is a list of national parks as defined by the International Union for Conservation of Nature ordered by nation. Nearly 100 countries around the world have lands classified as a national park by this definition.\n\nNote that this article links to list articles of national parks by country on Wikipedia in the \"Country\" column in the tables.\n\n"}
{"id": "11337053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11337053", "title": "List of oldest trees", "text": "List of oldest trees\n\nThis is a list of the oldest-known trees, as reported in reliable sources. Definitions of what constitutes an individual tree vary. In addition, tree ages are derived from a variety of sources, including documented \"tree-ring\" count core samples, and from estimates. For these reasons, this article presents three lists of \"oldest trees,\" each using varying criteria.\n\nThere are three tables of trees, which are listed by age and species. The first table includes trees for which a minimum age has been directly determined, either through counting or cross-referencing tree rings or through radiocarbon dating. Many of these trees may be even older than their listed ages, but the oldest wood in the tree has rotted away. For some old trees, so much of the centre is missing that their age cannot be directly determined. Instead, estimates are made based on the tree's size and presumed growth rate. The second table includes trees with these estimated ages. The last table lists clonal colonies in which no individual tree trunks may be remarkably old but in which the organism as a whole is thought to be very old.\n\nThe current record-holders for individual, non-clonal trees are the Great Basin bristlecone pine trees from California and Nevada, in the United States. Through tree-ring cross-referencing, they have been shown to be more than five millennia old.\n\nA clonal colony can survive for much longer than an individual tree. A colony of 47,000 quaking aspen trees (nicknamed Pando), covering in the Fishlake National Forest of Utah, is considered one of the oldest and largest organisms in the world. The colony has been estimated to be 80,000 years old, although tree ring samples date individual, above-ground, trees at only an average of about 130 years. A colony of Huon pine trees covering on Mount Read, Tasmania is estimated to be around 10,000 years old, as determined by DNA samples taken from pollen collected from the sediment of a nearby lake. Individual trees in this group date to no more than 4,000 years old, as determined by tree ring samples.\n\nNote: The ages of the trees in this list are speculative and probably unreliable.\nAs with all long-lived plant and fungal species, no individual part of a clonal colony is alive (in the sense of active metabolism) for more than a very small fraction of the life of the entire clone. Some clonal colonies may be fully connected via their root systems, while most are not actually interconnected, but are genetically identical clones which populated an area through vegetative reproduction. Ages for clonal colonies, often based on current growth rates, are estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "11347578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11347578", "title": "List of renewable energy topics by country", "text": "List of renewable energy topics by country\n\nThis is a list of renewable energy topics by country. These links can be used to compare developments in renewable energy in different countries and to help and encourage new writers to participate in writing about developments in their own countries or countries of interest. \n\nThe list refers to renewable energy in general, as well as solar power, wind power, geothermal energy, biofuel, and hydro-electricity. As of 2013, China, Germany, and Japan, three of the world's four largest economies, as well as India, generate more electricity from renewables than from nuclear power.\n\nBased on REN21's 2014 report, renewables contributed 19 percent to humans' global energy consumption. This energy consumption is divided as 9% coming from traditional biomass, 4.2% as heat energy (non-biomass), 3.8% hydro electricity and 2% is electricity from wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass.\n\nChina is the world's largest producer of hydroelectricity, followed by Canada. Wind power capacity is growing at the rate of 26% annually, and is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States. Wind power accounts for approximately 30% of electricity use in Denmark, 20% in Portugal, and 18% in Spain.\n\nPV power stations are popular in Japan, China and the United States. The world's largest geothermal power installation is The Geysers in California, with a rated capacity of 750 MW. Brazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18 percent of the country's automotive fuel. Ethanol fuel is also widely available in the United States. Plug-in electric vehicles in Norway reached a market share of 22.4% in 2015. the highest in the world.\n\nWhile many renewable energy projects are large-scale, renewable technologies are also suited to developing countries, where energy is often crucial in human development. Small solar PV systems provide electricity to a few million households, and micro-hydro configured into mini-grids serves many more.\n"}
{"id": "8991338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8991338", "title": "Maritime Forces Atlantic", "text": "Maritime Forces Atlantic\n\nIn the Canadian Forces, Maritime Forces Atlantic (MARLANT) is responsible for the fleet training and operational readiness of the Royal Canadian Navy in the Atlantic Ocean and Arctic Ocean. It was once referred to as Canadian Atlantic Station.\n\nThe commander of Maritime Forces Atlantic (COMMARLANT) is also the commander of Joint Task Force Atlantic (COMMJTFA), holding the rank of rear admiral.\n\nReporting to the commander is the commander of Canadian Fleet Atlantic (COMCANFLTLANT), holding the rank of commodore. This individual commands Canadian Fleet Atlantic (CANFLTLANT), and is responsible for the operation and readiness of all warships, auxiliaries and support vessels. COMCANFLTLANT is also the Canadian Task Group Commander for any CANFLTLANT deployment of ships to exercises or operations.\n\nMARLANT headquarters is located at CFB Halifax in Halifax, Nova Scotia.\n\nOther facilities include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17386363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17386363", "title": "Mesozoic marine revolution", "text": "Mesozoic marine revolution\n\nThe Mesozoic Marine Revolution (MMR) is the rapid adaption to shell-crushing (durophagous) and boring predation in benthic organisms throughout the Mesozoic era (251 Mya to 66 Mya). The term was first coined by Geerat J. Vermeij, who based his work on that of Steven M. Stanley. While initially restricted to the Late Cretaceous (145 Mya to 66 Mya), more recent studies have suggested that the beginning of this ecological arms race extends back into the Norian (Late Triassic) It is the important transition between the Palaeozoic evolutionary fauna and the Cenozoic evolutionary fauna that occurred throughout the Mesozoic.\n\nThe Mesozoic Marine Revolution was not the first bout of increased predation pressure; this also occurred around the end of the Ordovician.\n\nThere appears to be some evidence of adaption to durophagy during the Palaeozoic, particularly in crinoids.\n\nThe Mesozoic Marine Revolution was driven by the evolution of shell-crushing behaviour among Mesozoic marine predators, the technique being perfected in the Late Cretaceous. This forced shelled marine invertebrates to develop defences against this mode of predation or be wiped out. The consequences of this can be seen in many invertebrates today. Such predators are thought to include: Triassic placodonts, Triassic ichthyosaurs, Triassic Omphalosaurus, Triassic plesiosaurs, Jurassic pliosaurs, Late Cretaceous mosasaurs and Cretaceous ptycodontoid sharks.\n\nIt is also thought that the break-up of Pangaea throughout the Mesozoic brought together previously isolated communities, forcing them to adapt. The increased shelf space caused by sea-level rise and a hyper-greenhouse climate provided more iterations and chances to evolve, resulting in increasing diversity.\n\nAnother proposal is the evolution of hermit crabs. These exploit the shells of dead gastropods, effectively doubling the life-span of the shell. This allows durophagous predators nearly twice the prey, making it a viable niche to exploit.\n\nThe net result of the Mesozoic Marine Revolution was a change from the sedentary epifaunal mode of life of the Palaeozoic Evolutionary Fauna to the infaunal/planktonic mode of life of the Modern Evolutionary Fauna. Non-mobile types that failed to re-attach to their substrate (such as brachiopods) when removed were picked off as easy prey, whereas those that could hide from predation or be mobile enough to escape had an evolutionary advantage.\n\nThree major trends can be associated with this: <br>\n1) Reduction in suspension feeding epifauna <br>\n2) Increasing abundance of infauna <br>\n3) An intermediate stage of mobile epifauna.\n\nMajor casualties of the Mesozoic Marine Revolution include: sessile crinoids, gastropods, brachiopods and epifaunal bivalves.\n\nBenthic gastropods were heavily preyed upon throughout the MMR, the weaker shelled types being pushed out of the benthic zone into more isolated habitats. The Palaeozoic archaeogastropods were subsequently replaced by neritaceans, mesogastropods and neogastropods. The former typically have symmetrical, umbilicate shells that are mechanically weaker than the latter. These lack an umbilicus and also developed the ability to modify the interior of their shells, allowing them to develop sculptures on their exterior to act as defence against predators.\n\nAnother development among Muricidae was the ability to bore through shells and consume prey. These marks (while relatively rare) generally occur on sessile invertebrates, implying that they put pressure on Palaeozoic-type faunas during the MMR \n\nThe MMR heavily affected the crinoids, making the majority of forms extinct. Their sessile nature made them easy prey for durophagous predators since the Triassic. Survivors (such as the comatulids) could swim or crawl, behaved nocturnally or had autotomy (the ability to shed limbs in defence).\n\nDue to the distribution of modern crinoids, it is assumed that they were unable to live in predator-infested shallow waters and as a result were pushed into deeper waters.\n\nBrachiopods, the dominant benthic organism of the Palaeozoic, suffered badly during the MMR. Their sessile foot-attached nature made them easy prey to durophagous predators. The fact that they could not re-attach to a substrate if an attack failed meant their chances of survival were slim. Unlike bivalves, brachiopods never adapted to an infaunal habit (excluding lingulids) and so remained vulnerable throughout the MMR.\n\nBivalves adapted more readily than the Brachiopods to this transition. The majority of bivalves adopted an infaunal habit, using their siphons to gather nutrients from the sediment-water interface while remaining safe. Others like \"Pecten\" developed the ability to jump short distance away from predators by contracting their valves.\n\nLike brachiopods, epifaunal varieties of bivalves were preyed upon heavily. Among epifaunal types (such as mussels and oysters), the ability to fuse to the substrate made them more difficult to consume for smaller predators. Epifaunal bivalves were preyed on heavily pre-Norian but extinction rates diminish after this.\n\nEchinoids do not suffer major predation (save for general infaunalisation) during the MMR but it is clear from bromalites (fossilised ‘vomit’) that cidaroids were consumed by predators. Echinoids radiate into predatory niches and are thought to have perfected coral grazing in the Late Cretaceous.\n\nCidaroids also are thought to have contributed to the downfall of the crinoids.\n"}
{"id": "14598117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14598117", "title": "Northern riverine forest", "text": "Northern riverine forest\n\nThe northern riverine forest is a type of forest ecology most dominant along waterways in the northeastern and north-central United States and bordering areas of Canada. Key species include willow, elm, American sycamore, painted trillium, goldthread, common wood-sorrel, pink lady's-slipper, wild sarsaparilla, and cottonwood.\n\nOne of the distinct ecosystems is the Riverine Forest. These are found on the lower flood plains along the rivers edge. The main species found here is one of the deciduous species; the Balsam Poplar. These trees like a high volume of moisture and are able to tolerate flooding. They are distinguishable by their thick, gnarly bark and their larger, pointed leaves. These leaves have a distinct drip tip. The trees supply homes for the many native species of fauna. \n\nOther Key trees include yellow birch, white birch, sugar maple, American beech, eastern hemlock, white pine, red pine, northern red oak, pin cherry, and red spruce.\n\nKey shrubs include striped maple and hobblebush.\n\n"}
{"id": "25302146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25302146", "title": "Ocean island basalt", "text": "Ocean island basalt\n\nOcean island basalts (OIB) are basaltic rocks found on many volcanic islands away from tectonic plate boundaries, typically associated with hot spots.\n\nOcean island basalts are found on islands and volcanoes located on oceanic crust. The chemical composition of these basalts can vary from tholeiite to alkali basalt within the same island group, but it is never calc-alkaline. During the shield volcano stage of many hotspot islands, tholeiitic OIBs build up most of the volcano's structure. Following the post-erosional stage this is usually accompanied by violent eruptions of alkali basalt and other more evolved volcanic rocks with high alkali content.\n\nThe theory of plate tectonics provides excellent explanations for both the existence of volcanic eruptions at plate boundaries—such as ocean ridges and subduction zones—and why geological processes produce basalts of different geochemical properties at these plate boundaries. The existence of basaltic eruptions in the interior of tectonic plates, however, is not directly related to plate tectonism and models involving magma upwelling from deep mantle sources (such as mantle plumes and hotspots) have been developed to explain this intra-plate volcanism. These models explain why OIBs contain more geochemically enriched basalt than mid-ocean ridge basalts (MORBs) that originate from much closer to the Earth's surface in the asthenosphere. The existence of mantle plumes and hotspots has, however, been hotly debated since they were first proposed in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThere are various sources identified for ocean island basalt magma in Earth’s mantle. These mantle sources are inferred from differences in radiogenic isotope ratios that magmas inherit from their source rock. Sources have been defined from a combined analysis of strontium (Sr), neodymium (Nd) and lead (Pb) isotopes. \nThe sources as defined by radiogenic isotopes are:\n"}
{"id": "2472927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472927", "title": "Parent rock", "text": "Parent rock\n\nParent rock, also referred to as substratum, refers to the original rock from which something else was formed. It is mainly used in the context of soil formation where the parent rock (or parent material) normally has a large influence on the nature of the resulting soil. For example,clay soil is derived from shale while sandy soil comes from the weathering of sandstones. The term is also used in the context of metamorphic rocks where again the parent rock or protolith refers to the original rock before metamorphism takes place. Parent rocks can be sedimentary, igneous or metamorphic.\n\n"}
{"id": "5150399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5150399", "title": "Puget Sound Convergence Zone", "text": "Puget Sound Convergence Zone\n\nThe Puget Sound Convergence Zone (PSCZ) is a meteorological phenomenon that occurs over Puget Sound in the U.S. state of Washington. It is formed when the large-scale air flow splits around the Olympic Mountains and then converges over Puget Sound. This convergence zone generally occurs between north Seattle and Everett and can cause updrafts and convection, which leads to a narrow band of precipitation.\n\nA second, weaker convergence zone can occur between approximately Victoria, British Columbia, and Bellingham, Washington, over the San Juan Islands, as a result of southwesterly air blowing from the Strait of Juan de Fuca meeting northerly air moving southward down the Strait of Georgia.\n\nPuget Sound Convergence Zones, variable in both location and strength, tend to form in the general vicinity of central and southern Snohomish and northern King counties in Washington, from Everett to the Northgate neighborhood of Seattle. The strongest part of the Convergence Zone (where the heaviest precipitation falls) tends to lie along and adjacent to the King-Snohomish County line so that neither county is left dry. The proximity of the Convergence Zone to the King-Snohomish County line is the reason that cities located just north or south of the line, which are located within the rain shadow of the Olympic Mountains, approach Seattle in annual precipitation. The effect of the Puget Sound Convergence Zone nearly offsets that of the rain shadow. Without PSCZ, cities such as Edmonds, Mountlake Terrace, and Lynnwood in Snohomish County and Shoreline, Lake Forest Park, and Bothell in King County would be noticeably drier than Seattle.\n\nThe PSCZ has been suggested as the cause of greater precipitation over Glacier Peak relative to other mountains in the Cascades to the east of Puget Sound. As there are no weather stations near Glacier Peak, it remains unclear whether that area actually receives greater precipitation than elsewhere in the Cascade Range.\n\nOn April 18, 2008, a strong and very unseasonable snow-producing Puget Sound Convergence Zone storm formed around Everett, and spread south throughout the course of the afternoon and evening. By evening, the Zone had spread into northern King County, dumping of snow in Shoreline, and of snow in Woodinville. As the Zone slowly sank south of Shoreline into Seattle (past NE 145th Street), snow amounts began to taper off. The snow-producing part of the Zone ended abruptly at Roosevelt High School, a mere ten blocks north of the beginnings of the University District and the University of Washington community. Just north of Roosevelt High School, an inch of snow coated the ground, and due west of the school in the Green Lake neighborhood of Seattle, an inch of snow had also fallen. In line with the known \"abrupt edge\" of the Puget Sound Convergence Zone, areas to the south of this Green Lake-to-Roosevelt High line (marked by NE 68th Street), including the U-District, witnessed only a dusting of snow.\n"}
{"id": "3251151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3251151", "title": "Quilt maple", "text": "Quilt maple\n\nQuilt or quilted maple refers to a type of figure in maple wood. It is seen on the tangential plane (flat-sawn) and looks like a wavy \"quilted\" pattern, often similar to ripples on water. The quilted figure is only found in the Western Big Leaf species of maple . It is a distortion of the grain pattern itself. Prized for its beauty, it is used frequently in the manufacturing of musical instruments, especially guitars. Quilted maple is an end grain figure that shows a circular pattern on flat sawn material. There are many terms that describe the shape and pattern of quilted maple, such as watered, popcorn, tubular, sausage, bubble wrap, and angle step.\n\nFlame maple\n"}
{"id": "2149971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2149971", "title": "Research balloon", "text": "Research balloon\n\nResearch balloons are balloons that are used for scientific research. They are usually unmanned, filled with a lighter-than-air gas like helium, and fly at high altitudes.\n\nMeteorology, atmospheric research, astronomy, and military research may be conducted from a research balloon.\nWeather balloons are a type of research balloon. Research balloons usually study a single aspect of science, such as air pollution, air temperature, or wind currents, although sometimes several experiments or equipment are flown together.\n\nOther than weather balloons, few research balloons are launched every year. This is driven by the large cost of the balloon, the instrument, which is usually custom made, and the cost of the launch. Because of the altitude reached by most research balloons, the air is too thin and too cold for humans to survive, therefore most research balloons are unmanned and operated remotely. There have been some balloons equipped with pressurized cabins, beginning with professor Auguste Piccard in the 1930s.\n\nResearch balloons are not only used on earth. With the help of a research balloon, the upper atmosphere of Venus was examined by the Vega program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292093", "title": "Ritu (Indian season)", "text": "Ritu (Indian season)\n\nRitu (, ) defines \"season\" in different calendars around the South Asian countries of India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka, and there are six ritus (also transliterated rutu) or seasons. The word is derived from the Vedic Sanskrit word Ṛtú, a fixed or appointed time, especially the proper time for sacrifice (yajna) or ritual in Vedic religion; this in turn comes from the word Ṛta (ऋत), as used in Vedic Sanskrit literally means the \"order or course of things\". This word is used in nearly all Indian languages.\n\nNepal and India observes six ecological seasons. Southern parts of India experiences the seasons on a different schedule than the one depicted here.\nEast Indian Hindu (Bengali and Mithila which too starts its new year from Mesh Sankranti, in fact, Nepali and Assamese and Odia Hindus too do the same, the season names are in all other in Sanskrit Vasanta, Grishma, Varsha, Sharada, Hemanta, Shishira) calendar.\nThe Bengali Calendar is similar to the Sanskrit calendar above, but differs in start and end times which moves certain dates/days around (i.e., Vasant Panchami occurs here in Vasant ritu but in the calendar above, it occurs in Shishir as that is the Magha Shukla Panchami). The East Indian Calendar has the following seasons or ritus:\n\nThe Tamil Calendar follows a similar pattern of six seasons as described for north Indian Hindu calendars which in fact need adjustment as taking new year from Grishma like that Bengali calendar...\nThe seasons are described in literature such as the Sanskrit poem \"Ṛtusaṃhāra\" written by the legendary Sanskrit poet Kālidāsa.\n\nNames of the ritu are commonly used for persons: typically, Vasant, Sharad, Hemant, Shishir and Varsh are \"male\" names; \"female\" names include Vasanti, Sharada, Hemanti, Grishma and Varsha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22450733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22450733", "title": "SICRAL 1B", "text": "SICRAL 1B\n\nSICRAL 1B is a military communications satellite built by Thales Alenia Space for Italian Armed Forces. It is a dual-use spacecraft: Telespazio will use some of the satellite's transmission capacity and some will be used by the Italian defense ministry and NATO. The spacecraft is based on the Italsat 3000 bus and includes one EHF/Ka band, three UHF-band and five active SHF-band transponders. It is designed to be operable for 13 years.\n\nThales Alenia Space was the prime contractor for development and construction of the SICRAL 1B satellite.\n\nOn April 20, 2009 Sea Launch used a Zenit-3SL to carry SICRAL 1B into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. Liftoff from the Ocean Odyssey launch platform took place at 08:16 GMT.\n"}
{"id": "82595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82595", "title": "Sahel", "text": "Sahel\n\nThe Sahel () is the ecoclimatic and biogeographic zone of transition in Africa between the Sahara to the north and the Sudanian Savanna to the south. Having a semi-arid climate, it stretches across the south-central latitudes of Northern Africa between the Atlantic Ocean and the Red Sea. The name is derived from the Arabic word \"\" (, ) meaning \"coast\" or \"shore\" in a figurative sense (in reference to the southern edge of the vast Sahara), while the name Swahili means \"coastal [dweller]\" in a literal sense.\n\nThe Sahel part of Africa includes (from west to east) parts of northern Senegal, southern Mauritania, central Mali, northern Burkina Faso, the extreme south of Algeria, Niger, the extreme north of Nigeria, central Chad, central and southern Sudan, the extreme north of South Sudan, Eritrea, Cameroon, Central African Republic and the extreme north of Ethiopia.\n\nHistorically, the western part of the Sahel was sometimes known as the Sudan region. This belt was roughly located between the Sahara and the coastal areas of West Africa.\n\nThe Sahel spans from the Atlantic Ocean in the west to the Red Sea in the east, in a belt that varies from several hundred to a thousand kilometers (c. 600 miles) in width, covering an area of . It is a transitional ecoregion of semi-arid grasslands, savannas, steppes, and thorn shrublands lying between the wooded Sudanian Savanna to the south and the Sahara to the north.\nThe topography of the Sahel is mainly flat; most of the region lies between in elevation. Several isolated plateaus and mountain ranges rise from the Sahel, but are designated as separate ecoregions because their flora and fauna are distinct from the surrounding lowlands. Annual rainfall varies from around in the north of the Sahel to around in the south.\n\nThe Sahel is mostly covered in grassland and savanna, with areas of woodland and shrubland. Grass cover is fairly continuous across the region, dominated by annual grass species such as \"Cenchrus biflorus, Schoenefeldia gracilis\" and \"Aristida stipoides\". Species of acacia are the dominant trees, with \"Acacia tortilis\" the most common, along with \"Acacia senegal\" and \"Acacia laeta\". Other tree species include \"Commiphora africana\", \"Balanites aegyptiaca\", \"Faidherbia albida\", and \"Boscia senegalensis\". In the northern part of the Sahel, areas of desert shrub, including \"Panicum turgidum\" and \"Aristida sieberana\", alternate with areas of grassland and savanna. During the long dry season, many trees lose their leaves and the predominantly annual grasses die.\n\nThe Sahel was formerly home to large populations of grazing mammals, including the scimitar-horned oryx \"(Oryx dammah)\", dama gazelle \"(Gazella dama)\", Dorcas gazelle \"(Gazella dorcas)\", red-fronted gazelle \"(Gazella rufifrons)\", the giant prehistoric buffalo \"(Pelorovis)\" and Bubal hartebeest \"(Alcelaphus busephalus buselaphus)\", along with large predators like the African wild dog \"(Lycaon pictus)\", the Northwest African cheetah \"(Acinonyx jubatus hecki)\", the Northeast African cheetah \"(Acinonyx jubatus soemmeringii)\", the lion \"(Panthera leo)\". The larger species have been greatly reduced in number by over-hunting and competition with livestock, and several species are vulnerable (Dorcas gazelle, cheetah, lion and red-fronted gazelle), endangered (Dama gazelle and African wild dog), or extinct (the Scimitar-horned oryx is probably extinct in the wild, and both \"Pelorovis\" and the Bubal hartebeest are now extinct).\n\nThe seasonal wetlands of the Sahel are important for migratory birds moving within Africa and on the African-Eurasian flyways.\n\nThe Sahel has a tropical, hot steppe climate (Köppen climate classification \"BSh\"). The climate is typically hot, sunny, dry and somewhat windy all year long. The Sahel's climate is similar to, but less extreme than, the climate of the Sahara desert located just to the north.\n\nThe Sahel mainly receives a low to a very low amount of precipitation annually. The steppe has a very long, prevailing dry season and a short rainy season. The precipitation is also extremely irregular, and varies considerably from season to season. Most of the rain usually falls during only one or two months, while the other months may remain absolutely dry. The entire Sahel region generally receives between 100 mm and 600 mm of rain yearly. A system of subdivisions often adopted for the Sahelian climate based on annual rainfall is as follows: the Saharan-Sahelian climate, with mean annual precipitation between around 100 and 200 mm (such as Khartoum, Sudan), the strict Sahelian climate, with mean annual precipitation between around 200 and 600 mm (such as Kiffa, Mauritania) and the Sahelian-Sudanese climate, with mean annual precipitation between around 200 and 400 mm (such as Niamey, Niger). The relative humidity in the steppe is low to very low, often between 10% and 25% during the dry season and between 25% and 75% during the rainy season. The least humid places have a relative humidity under 35%.\n\nThe Sahel is characterized by constant, intense heat, with an unvarying temperature. The Sahel rarely experiences cold temperatures. During the hottest period, the average high temperatures are generally between (and even more in the hottest regions), often for more than three months, while the average low temperatures are around . During the \"coldest period\", the average high temperatures are between and the average low temperature are between . Everywhere in the Sahel, the average mean temperature is over due to the tropical climate.\n\nThe Sahel has a high to very high sunshine duration year-round, between 2,700 hours (about 61% of the daylight hours) and 3,500 hours (more than 79% of the daylight hours). The sunshine duration in the Sahel approaches desert levels, and is comparable to that in the Arabian Desert, for example, even though the Sahel is only a steppe and not a desert. The cloud cover is low to very low. For example, Niamey, Niger has 3,082 hours of bright sunshine; Gao, Mali has near 3,385 hours of sunshine; Timbuktu, Mali has 3,409 sunny hours, and N'Djamena, Chad has 3,205 hours of sunlight.\n\nTraditionally, most of the people in the Sahel have been semi-nomads, farming and raising livestock in a system of transhumance, which is probably the most sustainable way of utilizing the Sahel. The difference between the dry North with higher levels of soil nutrients and the wetter South with more vegetation, is utilized by having the herds graze on high quality feed in the North during the wet season, and trek several hundred kilometers to the South to graze on more abundant, but less nutritious feed during the dry period.\n\nIn Western Sahel, polygamy and child marriage are common. Female genital mutilation is also practiced across the Sahel.\n\nAround 4000 BC, the climate of the Sahara and the Sahel started to become drier at an exceedingly fast pace. This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink rather significantly and caused increasing desertification. This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and caused migrations of farming communities to the more humid climate of West Africa.\n\nThe Sahelian kingdoms were a series of monarchies centered in the Sahel between the 9th and 18th centuries. The wealth of the states came from controlling the trans-Saharan trade routes across the desert, especially the slave trade with the Islamic world. Their power came from having large pack animals like camels and horses that were fast enough to keep a large empire under central control and were also useful in battle. All of these empires were quite decentralized with member cities having a great deal of autonomy. The first large Sahelian kingdoms emerged after AD 750 and supported several large trading cities in the Niger Bend region, including Timbuktu, Gao, and Djenné.\n\nThe Sahel states were hindered from expanding south into the forest zone of the Ashanti and Yoruba peoples as mounted warriors were all but useless in the forests and the horses and camels could not survive the heat and diseases of the region.\n\nThe Western Sahel fell to France in the late 19th century as part of French West Africa. Chad was added in 1900 as part of French Equatorial Africa. The French territories were decolonized in 1960.\n\nThe Eastern Sahel (the part in what is now Sudan) did not fall to the European powers but was annexed by Muhammad Ali of Egypt in 1820. It came under British administration as part of the Sultanate of Egypt in 1914. The Sudanese Sahel became part of independent Sudan in 1956, and South Sudan in turn achieved its independence from Sudan proper in 2011.\n\nFor hundreds of years, the Sahel region has experienced regular droughts and megadroughts. One megadrought lasted from 1450 to 1700, 250 years. There was a major drought in the Sahel in 1914 caused by annual rains far below average, leading to large-scale famine. From 1951 to 2004, the Sahel experienced some of the most consistent and severe droughts in Africa. The 1960s saw a large increase in rainfall in the region, making the northern drier region more accessible. There was a push, supported by governments, for people to move northwards. When the long drought period from 1968 through 1974 began, grazing quickly became unsustainable and large-scale denuding of the terrain followed. Like the drought in 1914, this led to a large-scale famine, but this time somewhat tempered by international visibility and an outpouring of aid. This catastrophe led to the founding of the International Fund for Agricultural Development.\n\nBetween June and August 2010, famine struck the Sahel. Niger's crops failed to mature in the heat, 350,000 faced starvation, and 1,200,000 were at risk of famine. In Chad the temperature reached on 22 June in Faya-Largeau, breaking a record set in 1961 at the same location. Niger tied its highest temperature record set in 1998, also on 22 June, at 47.1 °C in Bilma. That record was broken the next day, when Bilma hit . The hottest temperature recorded in Sudan was reached on 25 June, at in Dongola, breaking a record set in 1987. Niger reported on 14 July that diarrhea, starvation, gastroenteritis, malnutrition, and respiratory diseases had sickened or killed many children. The new military junta appealed for international food aid and took serious steps to call on overseas help. On 26 July, the heat reached near-record levels over Chad and Niger, and in northern Niger about 20 people reportedly died of dehydration by 27 July.\n\nOver-farming, over-grazing, over-population of marginal lands, and natural soil erosion, have caused serious desertification of the region. This has affected shelter construction, making it necessary to change the used materials. The Woodless Construction project was introduced in Sahel in 1980 by the Development Workshop, achieving since then a high social impact in the region. \n\nMajor dust storms are a frequent occurrence as well. During November 2004, a number of major dust storms hit Chad, originating in the Bodélé Depression. This is a common area for dust storms, occurring on average on 100 days every year.\n\nOn 23 March 2010, a major sandstorm hit Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea, and inland Sierra Leone. Another struck in southern Algeria, inland Mauritania, Mali, and northern Ivory Coast at the same time.\n\nTerrorist organizations including Boko Haram, al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) operating in the Sahel have contributed to the violence, extremism and instability of the region.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50237013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50237013", "title": "Soğuksu Nature Park", "text": "Soğuksu Nature Park\n\nSoğuksu Nature Park (), established in 2011, is a nature park in Eastern Anatolia Region of Turkey. It is located far from Kars and to Sarıkamış.\n\nThe nature park covers an area of at above main sea level.\n\nThe area in and around of the nature park consists of basalt and dolomite rocks of Tertiary and Quaternary periods. Additionally, tuff, conglomerate and breccia are present.\n\nThe nature park features forest stand of Scots pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\"). In the areas between the forest stands, quaking aspen (\"Populus tremula\") grow. Othercommon plants are rose hip and buttercup (\"Ranunculus acris\").\n\nThe climate in the park shows characteristics of harsh continental climate. Long lasting winters are snowy, frostyand very cold. In winter time, more precipitation falls than in the summer period. The highest precipitation occurs just before the summer begins.\n"}
{"id": "7800328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7800328", "title": "Tau Hydrae", "text": "Tau Hydrae\n\nThe Bayer designation Tau Hydrae (τ Hya, τ Hydrae) is shared by two star systems in the equatorial constellation of Hydra. The two stars are separated by 1.74° in the sky.\n\n\nThe stars τ Hya and τ Hya, along with ι Hya and the 5th‑magnitude 33 Hya (A Hydrae), were Ptolemy's Καμπή (Kampē); but Kazwini knew them as ʽUḳdah, the Knot. According to the catalogue of stars in the \"Technical Memorandum 33-507 - A Reduced Star Catalog Containing 537 Named Stars\", \"Uḳdah\" were the title for four stars: τ Hya as \"Uḳdah I\", τ Hya as \"Uḳdah II\", 33 Hya (A Hydrae) as \"Uḳdah III\" and ι Hya as \"Uḳdah IV\" \n\nIn Chinese, (), meaning \"Star (asterism)\", refers to an asterism consisting of τ and τ Hydrae, Alphard, ι Hydrae, 26 Hydrae, 27 Hydrae, HD 82477 and HD 82428. Consequently, τ and τ Hydrae are known as (, ) and (, ) respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "5627298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5627298", "title": "Terramechanics", "text": "Terramechanics\n\nTerramechanics is the study of soil properties, specifically the interaction of wheeled or tracked vehicles on various surfaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31950254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31950254", "title": "Thin-film thickness monitor", "text": "Thin-film thickness monitor\n\nThin-film thickness monitors, deposition rate controllers, and so on, are a family of instruments used in high and ultra-high vacuum systems. They can measure the thickness of a thin film, not only after it has been made, but while it is still being deposited, and some can control either the final thickness of the film, the rate at which it is deposited, or both. Not surprisingly, the devices which control some aspect of the process tend to be called controllers, and those that simply monitor the process tend to be called monitors.\n\nMost such instruments use a quartz crystal microbalance as the sensor. Optical measurements are sometimes used; this may be especially appropriate if the film being deposited is part of a thin film optical device.\n\nA thickness monitor measures how much material deposited on its sensor. Most deposition processes are at least somewhat directional. The sensor and the sample generally cannot be in the same direction from the deposition source (if they were, the one closer to the source would shadow the other), and may not even be at the same distance from it. Therefore, the rate at which the material is deposited on the sensor may not equal the rate at which it is deposited on the sample. The ratio of the two rates is sometimes called the \"tooling factor\". For careful work, the tooling factor should be checked by measuring the amount of material deposited on some samples after the fact and comparing it to what the thickness monitor measured. Fizeau interferometers are often used to do this. Many other techniques might be used, depending on the thickness and characteristics of the thin film, including surface profilers, ellipsometry, dual polarisation interferometry and scanning electron microscopy of cross-sections of the sample. Many thickness monitors and controllers allow tooling factors to be entered into the device before deposition begins.\n\nThe correct tooling factor can be calculated as follows:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere F is the initial tooling factor, T is the film thickness indicated by the instrument, and T is the actual, independently measured thickness of the deposited film. If no tooling factor has been preset or used before, F equals 1.\n"}
{"id": "59953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59953", "title": "Van Allen radiation belt", "text": "Van Allen radiation belt\n\nA Van Allen radiation belt is a zone of energetic charged particles, most of which originate from the solar wind, that are captured by and held around a planet by that planet's magnetic field. Earth has two such belts and sometimes others may be temporarily created. The discovery of the belts is credited to James Van Allen, and as a result, Earth's belts are known as the Van Allen belts. Earth's two main belts extend from an altitude of about above the surface in which region radiation levels vary. Most of the particles that form the belts are thought to come from solar wind and other particles by cosmic rays. By trapping the solar wind, the magnetic field deflects those energetic particles and protects the atmosphere from destruction.\n\nThe belts are located in the inner region of Earth's magnetosphere. The belts trap energetic electrons and protons. Other nuclei, such as alpha particles, are less prevalent. The belts endanger satellites, which must have their sensitive components protected with adequate shielding if they spend significant time near that zone. In 2013, NASA reported that the Van Allen Probes had discovered a transient, third radiation belt, which was observed for four weeks until it was destroyed by a powerful, interplanetary shock wave from the Sun.\n\nKristian Birkeland, Carl Størmer, and Nicholas Christofilos had investigated the possibility of trapped charged particles before the Space Age. Explorer 1 and Explorer 3 confirmed the existence of the belt in early 1958 under James Van Allen at the University of Iowa. The trapped radiation was first mapped by Explorer 4, Pioneer 3 and Luna 1.\n\nThe term \"Van Allen belts\" refers specifically to the radiation belts surrounding Earth; however, similar radiation belts have been discovered around other planets. The Sun does not support long-term radiation belts, as it lacks a stable, global, dipole field. The Earth's atmosphere limits the belts' particles to regions above 200–1,000 km, (124–620 miles) while the belts do not extend past 8 Earth radii \"R\". The belts are confined to a volume which extends about 65° on either side of the celestial equator.\n\nThe NASA Van Allen Probes mission aims at understanding (to the point of predictability) how populations of relativistic electrons and ions in space form or change in response to changes in solar activity and the solar wind.\nNASA Institute for Advanced Concepts–funded studies have proposed magnetic scoops to collect antimatter that naturally occurs in the Van Allen belts of Earth, although only about 10 micrograms of antiprotons are estimated to exist in the entire belt.\n\nThe Van Allen Probes mission successfully launched on August 30, 2012. The primary mission is scheduled to last two years with expendables expected to last four. NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center manages the Living With a Star program of which the Van Allen Probes is a project, along with Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). The Applied Physics Laboratory is responsible for the implementation and instrument management for the Van Allen Probes.\n\nRadiation belts exist around other planets and moons in the solar system that have magnetic fields powerful enough to sustain them. To date, most of these radiation belts have been poorly mapped. The Voyager Program (namely Voyager 2) only nominally confirmed the existence of similar belts around Uranus and Neptune.\n\nThe inner Van Allen Belt extends typically from an altitude of 0.2 to 2 Earth radii (L values of 1 to 3) or to above the Earth. In certain cases when solar activity is stronger or in geographical areas such as the South Atlantic Anomaly, the inner boundary may decline to roughly 200 kilometers above the Earth's surface. The inner belt contains high concentrations of electrons in the range of hundreds of keV and energetic protons with energies exceeding 100 MeV, trapped by the strong (relative to the outer belts) magnetic fields in the region.\n\nIt is believed that proton energies exceeding 50 MeV in the lower belts at lower altitudes are the result of the beta decay of neutrons created by cosmic ray collisions with nuclei of the upper atmosphere. The source of lower energy protons is believed to be proton diffusion due to changes in the magnetic field during geomagnetic storms.\n\nDue to the slight offset of the belts from Earth's geometric center, the inner Van Allen belt makes its closest approach to the surface at the South Atlantic Anomaly.\nOn March 2014, a pattern resembling 'zebra stripes' was observed in the radiation belts by the Radiation Belt Storm Probes Ion Composition Experiment (RBSPICE) onboard Van Allen Probes. The reason reported was that due to the tilt in Earth's magnetic field axis, the planet’s rotation generated an oscillating, weak electric field that permeates through the entire inner radiation belt. It was later demonstrated that the zebra stripes were in fact an imprint of ionospheric winds on radiation belts.\n\nThe outer belt consists mainly of high energy (0.1–10 MeV) electrons trapped by the Earth's magnetosphere. It is more variable than the inner belt as it is more easily influenced by solar activity. It is almost toroidal in shape, beginning at an altitude of three and extending to ten Earth radii (\"R\") above the Earth's surface. Its greatest intensity is usually around 4–5 \"R\". The outer electron radiation belt is mostly produced by the inward radial diffusion and local acceleration due to transfer of energy from whistler-mode plasma waves to radiation belt electrons. Radiation belt electrons are also constantly removed by collisions with Earth's atmosphere, losses to the magnetopause, and their outward radial diffusion. The gyroradii of energetic protons would be large enough to bring them into contact with the Earth's atmosphere. Within this belt, the electrons have a high flux and at the outer edge (close to the magnetopause), where geomagnetic field lines open into the geomagnetic \"tail\", the flux of energetic electrons can drop to the low interplanetary levels within about , a decrease by a factor of 1,000.\n\nIn 2014 it was discovered that the inner edge of the outer belt is characterized by a very sharp transition, below which highly relativistic electrons (> 5MeV) cannot penetrate. The reason for this shield-like behavior is not well understood.\n\nThe trapped particle population of the outer belt is varied, containing electrons and various ions. Most of the ions are in the form of energetic protons, but a certain percentage are alpha particles and O oxygen ions, similar to those in the ionosphere but are much more energetic. This mixture of ions suggests that ring current particles probably come from more than one source.\n\nThe outer belt is larger than the inner belt and its particle population fluctuates widely. Energetic (radiation) particle fluxes can increase and decrease dramatically in response to geomagnetic storms, which are themselves triggered by magnetic field and plasma disturbances produced by the Sun. The increases are due to storm-related injections and acceleration of particles from the tail of the magnetosphere.\n\nOn February 28, 2013, a third radiation belt, consisting of high-energy ultrarelativistic charged particles, was reported to be discovered. In a news conference by NASA's Van Allen Probe team, it was stated that this third belt is a product of coronal mass ejection from the Sun. It has been represented as a separate creation which splits the Outer Belt, like a knife, on its outer side, and exists separately as a storage container of particles for a month's time, before merging once again with the Outer Belt.\n\nThe unusual stability of this third, transient belt has been explained as due to a 'trapping' by the Earth's magnetic field of ultrarelativistic particles as they are lost from the second, traditional outer belt. While the outer zone, which forms and disappears over a day, is highly variable due to interactions with the atmosphere, the ultrarelativistic particles of the third belt are thought to not scatter into the atmosphere, as they are too energetic to interact with atmospheric waves at low latitudes. This absence of scattering and the trapping allows them to persist for a long time, finally only being destroyed by an unusual event, such as the shock wave from the Sun.\n\nIn the belts, at a given point, the flux of particles of a given energy decreases sharply with energy.\n\nAt the magnetic equator, electrons of energies exceeding 500 keV (resp. 5 MeV) have omnidirectional fluxes ranging from 1.2×10 (resp. 3.7×10) up to 9.4×10 (resp. 2×10) particles per square centimeter per second.\n\nThe proton belts contain protons with kinetic energies ranging from about 100 keV (which can penetrate 0.6 µm of lead) to over 400 MeV (which can penetrate 143 mm of lead).\n\nMost published flux values for the inner and outer belts may not show the maximum probable flux densities that are possible in the belts. There is a reason for this discrepancy: the flux density and the location of the peak flux is variable (depending primarily on solar activity), and the number of spacecraft with instruments observing the belt in real time has been limited. The Earth has not experienced a solar storm of Carrington event intensity and duration while spacecraft with the proper instruments have been available to observe the event.\n\nRegardless of the differences of the flux levels in the Inner and Outer Van Allen belts, the beta radiation levels would be dangerous to humans if they were exposed for an extended period of time. The Apollo missions minimised hazards for astronauts by sending spacecraft at high speeds through the thinner areas of the upper belts, bypassing inner belts completely.\n\nIn 2011, a study confirmed earlier speculation that the Van Allen belt could confine antiparticles. The PAMELA experiment detected orders of magnitude higher levels of antiprotons than are expected from normal particle decays while passing through the South Atlantic Anomaly. This suggests the Van Allen belts confine a significant flux of antiprotons produced by the interaction of the Earth's upper atmosphere with cosmic rays. The energy of the antiprotons has been measured in the range from 60–750 MeV.\n\nResearch funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts concluded that harnessing these antiprotons for spacecraft propulsion would be feasible. Researchers believed that this approach would have advantages over antiproton generation at CERN because collecting the particles in situ eliminates transportation losses and costs. Jupiter and Saturn are also possible sources but the Earth belt is the most productive. Jupiter is less productive than might be expected due to magnetic shielding from cosmic rays of much of its atmosphere.\n\nSpacecraft travelling beyond low Earth orbit enter the zone of radiation of the Van Allen belts. Beyond the belts, they face additional hazards from cosmic rays and solar particle events. A region between the inner and outer Van Allen belts lies at two to four Earth radii and is sometimes referred to as the \"safe zone\".\n\nSolar cells, integrated circuits, and sensors can be damaged by radiation. Geomagnetic storms occasionally damage electronic components on spacecraft. Miniaturization and digitization of electronics and logic circuits have made satellites more vulnerable to radiation, as the total electric charge in these circuits is now small enough so as to be comparable with the charge of incoming ions. Electronics on satellites must be hardened against radiation to operate reliably. The Hubble Space Telescope, among other satellites, often has its sensors turned off when passing through regions of intense radiation. A satellite shielded by 3 mm of aluminium in an elliptic orbit () passing the radiation belts will receive about 2,500 rem (25 Sv) per year (for comparison, a full-body dose of 5 Sv is deadly). Almost all radiation will be received while passing the inner belt.\n\nThe Apollo missions marked the first event where humans traveled through the Van Allen belts, which was one of several radiation hazards known by mission planners. The astronauts had low exposure in the Van Allen belts due to the short period of time spent flying through them. Apollo flight trajectories bypassed the inner belts completely, passing through the thinner areas of the outer belts.\n\nAstronauts' overall exposure was actually dominated by solar particles once outside Earth's magnetic field. The total radiation received by the astronauts varied from mission to mission but was measured to be between 0.16 and 1.14 rads (1.6 and 11.4 mGy), much less than the standard of 5 rem (50 mSv) per year set by the United States Atomic Energy Commission for people who work with radioactivity.\n\nIt is generally understood that the inner and outer Van Allen belts result from different processes. The inner belt, consisting mainly of energetic protons, is the product of the decay of so-called \"albedo\" neutrons which are themselves the result of cosmic ray collisions in the upper atmosphere. The outer belt consists mainly of electrons. They are injected from the geomagnetic tail following geomagnetic storms, and are subsequently energized through wave-particle interactions.\n\nIn the inner belt, particles that originate from the Sun are trapped in the Earth's magnetic field. Particles spiral along the magnetic lines of flux as they move \"longitudinally\" along those lines. As particles move toward the poles, the magnetic field line density increases and their \"longitudinal\" velocity is slowed and can be reversed, reflecting the particle and causing them to bounce back and forth between the Earth's poles. In addition to the spiral about and motion along the flux lines, the electrons move slowly in an eastward direction, while the ions move westward.\n\nA gap between the inner and outer Van Allen belts, sometimes called safe zone or safe slot, is caused by the Very Low Frequency (VLF) waves which scatter particles in pitch angle which results in the gain of particles to the atmosphere. Solar outbursts can pump particles into the gap but they drain again in a matter of days. The radio waves were originally thought to be generated by turbulence in the radiation belts, but recent work by James L. Green of the Goddard Space Flight Center comparing maps of lightning activity collected by the Microlab 1 spacecraft with data on radio waves in the radiation-belt gap from the IMAGE spacecraft suggests that they are actually generated by lightning within Earth's atmosphere. The radio waves that generate strike the ionosphere at the correct angle to pass through only at high latitudes, where the lower ends of the gap approach the upper atmosphere. These results are still under scientific debate.\n\nHigh Voltage Orbiting Long Tether, or HiVOLT, is a concept proposed by Russian physicist V. V. Danilov and further refined by Robert P. Hoyt and Robert L. Forward for draining and removing the radiation fields of the Van Allen radiation belts that surround the Earth. A proposed configuration consists of a system of five 100 km long conducting tethers deployed from satellites, and charged to a large voltage. This would cause charged particles that encounter the tethers to have their pitch angle changed; thus, over time, dissolving the inner belts. Hoyt and Forward's company, Tethers Unlimited, performed a preliminary analysis simulation in 2011, and produced a chart depicting a theoretical radiation flux reduction, to less than 1% of current levels within two months for the inner belts that threaten LEO objects.\n\n\n\n"}
