{"id": "520583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520583", "title": "A595 road", "text": "A595 road\n\nThe A595 is a primary route in Cumbria, in Northern England that starts in Carlisle, passes through Whitehaven and goes close to Workington, Cockermouth and Wigton. It passes Sellafield and Ravenglass before ending at the Dalton-in-Furness by-pass, in southern Cumbria, where it joins the A590 trunk road. The road is mostly single carriageway, apart from in central Carlisle, where it passes the castle as a busy dual carriageway road named Castle Way, and prior to that as Bridge Street and Church Street, where it passes close to the McVitie's or Carr's biscuit factory. The Lillyhall bypass is also dual carriageway.\n\nThe road in the Whitehaven area was laid out in the 1930s and the A595 was designated a trunk route in 1946. It was detrunked in 1998, apart from an section between Little Clifton and Calder Bridge. This section represents the route from Sellafield to the A66.\n\nAt Dove Ford in Grizebeck the road passes through a farmyard.\n\nThe long A595 is also known as the Cumbrian Coast Road despite much of the road following in an inland route. Starting at the Hardwicke Circus roundabout junction with the A7 in Carlisle, it forms a short section of dual carriageway known as Castle Way. This section passes Carlisle Castle and Tullie House. Prior to the construction of Castle Way, the road was split in 2 at this section. It then continues over Caldew Bridge to a thoroughfare called Caldewgate, before arriving at a roundabout close to the McVitie's factory in the city centre. It then follows the route of Wigton Road through the district of Morton, before reaching the outer boundary of Carlisle. At this point it passes the proposed start point of the Carlisle Northern Development Route, where construction work commenced in 2009. This route will be the A689. A further roundabout was constructed in 2011 around 1 mile south of Carlisle in anticipation of increased traffic for a nearby garden centre development.\n\nThe route continues in a south-westerly direction until it reaches a roundabout on the outskirts of Thursby at a junction with A596. The roads previously met in the centre of the village of Thursby, before the construction of the Thursby bypass in the 1980s. The A595 runs largely parallel to A596, before the A596 terminates in Workington.\n\nThe road then continues in a southerly direction, passing close to the town of Wigton. A staggered crossroads at the section provides access to Wigton and also the B5305 towards Penrith. The twin transmitters of Caldbeck and Sandale are visible close to this section of the road.\n\nThe next section follows a meandering path through several hamlets, before reaching the village of Bothel, where the A591 from Keswick terminates. The road then passes the site of the former Moota motel. This section of the route is notable for the two long straight sections, which are fairly rare on the A595. The road once again meanders until the roundabout junction with the A594 road from Cockermouth to Maryport. It then passes over the River Derwent via Papcastle Bridge before turning west and becoming the part of the A66 until Little Clifton. During the 2009 Cumbrian floods, the Papcastle bridge was briefly closed, essentially splitting West Cumbria in two. With bridge collapses and damage on the nearby A596, and a road closure on the A591, the only passable route to anywhere north of the River Derwent was via the A66 and M6 to Carlisle - a diversion of over .\n\nAt this point the road turns towards Lillyhall, passing through Lillyhall Industrial Estate and joining the Distington bypass, constructed in 2008. This section of road is notable as it is the only section of national speed limit dual carriageway along the whole length of the road. The end of the dual carriageway section is a roundabout junction near Lowca rejoining the original A595 road. It is then a short journey along the coast to the edge of Whitehaven.\n\nThe road passes through Loop Road North & Loop Road South in Whitehaven passing the suburbs of the Highlands, Hill Crest and Hensingham. It forms the Hensingham bypass at this section, constructed in the 1980s to ease the passage of construction traffic to Sellafield through a particularly narrow and busy section of the road. It then passes close to West Cumberland Hospital and West Lakes Science & Technology Park. There is a campaign to build a bypass from the recently built Distington Bypass to this part of the A595 to ease congestion in the Whitehaven area.\n\nAfter this, the road the passes near to Moor Row and through the centre of Bigrigg, before heading downhill to Egremont. The northbound side of the road here was upgraded in the 1980s to provide an extra uphill lane for overtaking due to the steep gradient. At the bottom of the hill the roundabout forms a junction with the B5086 which gives access to Cleator Moor and eventually Cockermouth.\n\nThe A595 the forms the Egremont bypass. This bypass was built in the early '90s as a result of an investment by BNFL in local infrastructure following the siting of the THORP reprocessing plant at Sellafield. Prior to the bypass, the A595 originally passed right through the middle of town of Egremont. Once past the village of Thornhill, you can then see the sprawling Sellafield nuclear site. Twin cooling towers previously dominated the skyline here. However, they were demolished in 2007.\n\nThe road then passes Beckermet and Calder Bridge, junctions here give access to the Sellafield site. From Calder Bridge, the A595 forms the boundary of the Lake District National Park, going between the villages of Seascale and Gosforth. It enters the national park at the bridge over the River Irt at Holmrook and continues past the village of Ravenglass, then passes through Waberthwaite and Bootle and round the foot of Black Combe.\n\nAt Silecroft the road has a TOTSO (turn off to stay on) junction with the A5093, close to the town of Millom, taking a north-easterly route up the Whicham Valley. For much of this stretch, the road is close to or is the boundary of the Lake District National Park. At Duddon Bridge, which previously marked the southern boundary of the historic county of Cumberland, the road turns towards Broughton-in-Furness but bypasses the town, before turning north to rejoin its old route, then once again turning south. At Grizebeck, the A5092 then branches off the road to connect with the A590, providing the route to the M6. This is also the point at which the A595 ceases to be the boundary to the Lake District National Park.\n\nThe road finally passes through Kirkby-in-Furness and Askam-in-Furness before terminating further south at a roundabout junction with the A590 on the Dalton-in-Furness bypass.\n\nThe last section of the road is particularly narrow and even passes through a farmyard.\n\nThe road, along with the A66, is considered to be the most dangerous road in Cumbria. There are several accident blackspots along the length of the road. One of the most notable is a stretch known as Moota, which is regularly the scene of fatal accidents. The northern section was formerly a trunk road, but until the recent completion of the Distington Bypass it had only one small section of dual carriageway. The southern section of the road around New Mill does not have a secondary route. When this section is closed due to an accident or roadworks, the detour routes are via Wrynose and Hardknott mountain passes for cars, and via the M6 J40 for HGVs, the latter being a detour of . The poor safety record of the road is highlighted by signs erected on the route stating \"1245 casualties in 5 years\".\n\nThe Carlisle Northern Development Route (CNDR) is a proposed long north-western bypass of Carlisle, which would replace the existing A595 through the city (Wigton Road, Church Street, Bridge Street and Castle Way) and reduce congestion on the city's roads. The new road would be of single carriageway standard, with a number of roundabout junctions, as well as a new bridge over the River Eden. The route would begin near Newby West (to the west of the city), before meeting the B5307 (the road to Abbeytown). Shortly afterwards it would cross over the River Eden, and curve round to the north of the Kingstown Industrial Estate, and terminate at Junction 44 of the M6 motorway.\n\nThe development of the route has suffered several setbacks. In August 2008 a discovery of a great crested newt colony led to a delay in the start of the project. In February 2009 a potentially important Stone Age find was discovered during surveying work. The most serious problem to face the development was the near collapse of the bank providing the funds under a private finance initiative. Belgian bank Dexia was involved in a £5 billion bailout during the Credit Crunch. A consortium of banks later stepped in to provide the funding, and construction is currently underway.\nThe bypass opened in Spring 2012.\n\nThe Parton to Lillyhall bypass was opened in December 2008 after a period of 18 months construction. The road runs from the junction with the A596 at Lillyhall to a new junction created close to the A595 junction for Lowca. The new road replaces a winding, narrow section of the A595 which passed through the village of Distington. Prior to this project the A595 was considered for de-trunking, meaning the scheme would have become the responsibility of Cumbria County Council. However, it was not de-trunked, and has instead been listed in the government's Targeted Programme of Improvements.\n\nCopeland MP Jamie Reed and Cumbria County Council leader Stewart Young have been pressing the UK government for an eastern relief road to take the A595 away from a bottleneck through the town of Whitehaven. The proposed route would connect with recent Parton to Lillyhall bypass, it would then pass to the east of the town, past the newly proposed replacement for West Cumberland Hospital, then finally passing West Lakes Science & Technology Park before joining the current A595 south of Whitehaven. Plans are being drawn up as part of the Energy Coast masterplan to regenerate West Cumbria.\n\n"}
{"id": "51774438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51774438", "title": "Active Design", "text": "Active Design\n\nActive design is a set of building and planning principles that promote physical activity. Active design in a building, landscape or city design integrates physical activity into the occupants' everyday routines, such as walking to the store or making a photocopy. Active design involves urban planners, architects, transportation engineers, public health professionals, community leaders and other professionals in building places that encourage physical activity as an integral part of life. While not an inherent part of active design, most designers employing \"active design\" are also concerned with the productive life of their buildings and their building's ecological footprint.\n\nActive Design - England\n\nSport England considers that the built environment has a vital role to play to encourage people to be physically active as part of their daily lives, enabling communities to lead more active and healthy lifestyles. In 2007 Sport England and David Lock Associates produced Active Design, which provided a set of design guidelines to help promote opportunities for sport and physical activity in the design and layout of new development. The guidance was developed in two phases, phase one (2005) developed the three key Active Design objects of - improving Accessibility, enhancing Amenity and increasing Awareness (The 3 A’s). Phase two included two stakeholder sessions (May & October 2006) which expanded ‘The 3 A’s’ into a criterion based approach. These criteria formed the guidance which was published in 2007. The guidance was supported by CABE, Department of Health and Department for Culture Media and Sport.\n\nIn 2014, Sport England held a stakeholder session made up of a range of bodies and individuals including Urban Planning and Public Health professionals to discuss whether Active Design was still relevant in today’s planning and health context. The clear message from the stakeholder session was that there was still a role for Active Design to play in today’s planning and health environment. The guide was revised, retaining ‘The 3 A’s’ and refining the criteria based approach to the Ten Principles of Active Design. The revised Active Design(prepared by Sport England and David Lock Associates) was published in 2015, and was supported by Public Health England.\n\nIn 2016 Active Design: \"Planning for health and wellbeing through sport and physical activity\" was shortlisted for an award at the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) Awards for Planning Excellence. Active Design was shortlisted in the category of \"Excellence in Planning for Community and Wellbeing\".\n\nIn 2017 Sport England prepared two animated films, Active Design by Sport England and The Ten Principles of Active Design, in addition to three further Case Studies. The animations and case studies are available on Sport Englands Active Design webpage.\n\nThe Active Design principles are becoming increasingly embedded into Built Environment practice and placemaking design, with a growing list of Local Authorities in England making reference to Sport England’s Active Design guidance in planning policy. In 2018 Active Design was embedded into the principles of the revised Essex Design Guide (prepared by Essex County Council and supported by Sport England).\n\n<br>\nActive Design - New York\n\nRecognizing that physical inactivity was a significant factor in decreased life spans, notably because it promoted obesity, high blood pressure and high blood glucose, all precursors of early death, those responsible for planning in New York City developed a set of guidelines that, \"inter alia\", they hoped would promote health by promoting physical activity. They released these guidelines in January 2010. The guidelines were also based on concerns about building longevity and ecological costs, which is generally known as \"sustainable design\". Impetus for the guidelines began in 2006 with the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) who then partnered with the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter to hold a series of conferences known as the \"Fit City\" conferences.\n\nFour key concepts came out of this process:\n\nFrom New York City the active design movement spread throughout the United States and the world.\n\nSickness can lead to not working efficiently and effectively. Ineffective workers in the work force cause harm to the company and the people in the community. Active design strives to impact public health not only physically but also mentally and socially. For example, active design in transportation supports a safe and vibrant environment for pedestrians, cyclists and transit riders. It creates buildings that encourage greater physical movement within a building by both users and visitors. The active design of recreation sites shapes play and activity spaces for people of different ages, interests, and abilities. Also, improved food accessibility can improve nutrition in communities that need it the most.\n\nThere are few studies of the effects of implementing active design concepts, but they are in general agreement that the physical activity of occupants is increased. Moving to an active design building seemed to have physical health benefits for workers, but workers’ perceptions on productivity about the new work environment have varied. A study reported that staff moved into an active design building decreased the time spent sitting by 1.2h/day. There was no significant increase in self-rated quality of work or work related motivation but there was no negative feedback in these areas.\n\nActive design concepts may be applied in remodeling or repurposing existing buildings and landscapes. Some elements include widening sidewalks and crosswalks; installing traffic calming elements that slow driving speeds; making stairs that are accessible, visible, attractive, and well-lit; making recreation areas, such as parks, plazas, and playgrounds, more accessible by pedestrians and cyclists. People would be more likely to be active if places for recreation were within walking distance.\n\nThere are a number of concerns with the adoption of active design programmes. Developing communities are not always accepting of new forms of architecture and living. Integration of active design may come in conflict with making sure historical culture survives. Vernacular architecture may be abandoned due to it being considered insufficient or uncomfortable.\n\nThe future of active design may be to further incorporate requirements into law, as in the city of New York which set active design guidelines to improve public health in the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "20104825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20104825", "title": "Adolf Schenck", "text": "Adolf Schenck\n\nAdolf Schenck (April 4, 1857 – September 15, 1936) was a German geographer, mineralogist and botanist who was a native of Siegen. He was a brother to botanist Heinrich Schenck (1860-1927).\n\nSchenck studied at the Universities of Berlin and Bonn, obtaining his doctorate in 1884. From 1884 to 1887 he was a geographer on a mineralogical expedition to German Southwest Africa. The expedition was organized by merchant Adolf Lüderitz (1834-1886) and was under the leadership of Karl Höpfner (1857-1900). Several noted scientists participated in the venture, including Swiss botanist Hans Schinz (1868-1941), who performed botanical investigations in the northern part of German Southwest Africa. In the southern part of the colony, Schenck collected minerals and plants, particularly lichens. Prior to returning to Germany, he visited mines and goldfields that are now located in the present-day nations of South Africa, Botswana and Mozambique.\n\nFrom 1899 to 1922 he was a professor at the University of Halle, and continued working as a lecturer until 1932. As a teacher he gave lectures on the geography of German colonies. Schenck has a handful of African spermatophyte species named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "9666468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9666468", "title": "Agaya Gangai", "text": "Agaya Gangai\n\nAgaya Gangai waterfalls are located in Kolli Hills of the Eastern Ghats, in India. Panchanathi, a jungle stream, cascades down as the Agaya Gangai (English: Ganges of Sky), near Arapaleeswarar temple atop the Kolli Hills in Namakkal district, Tamil Nadu. It is a waterfall of the river Aiyaru. It is located in a mountain valley.\n\nThe caves of Korakka Siddhar and Kalaanginatha Siddhar are situated near the Agaya Gangai waterfalls in the nearby forest.\n"}
{"id": "2999955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2999955", "title": "Alpide belt", "text": "Alpide belt\n\nThe Alpide belt or Alpine-Himalayan orogenic belt is a seismic belt and orogenic belt that includes an array of mountain ranges extending along the southern margin of Eurasia, stretching from Java to Sumatra through the Himalayas, the Mediterranean, and out into the Atlantic. It includes the Alps, the Carpathians, the Pyrenees, the mountains of Anatolia and Iran, the Hindu Kush, and the mountains of Southeast Asia. It is the second most seismically active region in the world, after the circum-Pacific belt (the Ring of Fire), with 17% of the world's largest earthquakes.\n\nThe Alpide belt is being created by ongoing plate tectonics such as the Alpine orogeny. The belt is the result of Mesozoic-to-Cenozoic-to-recent closure of the Tethys Ocean and process of collision between the northward-moving African, Arabian and Indian plates with the Eurasian plate.\n\nIndonesia lies between the Pacific Ring of Fire along the northeastern islands adjacent to and including New Guinea and the Alpide belt along the south and west from Sumatra, Java and the Lesser Sunda Islands (Bali, Flores, and Timor). The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake just off the coast of Sumatra was located within the Alpide belt.\n\n"}
{"id": "1145843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1145843", "title": "Atlantic coastal plain", "text": "Atlantic coastal plain\n\nThe Atlantic coastal plain is a physiographic region of low relief along the East Coast of the United States. It extends from the New York Bight southward to a Georgia/Florida section of the Eastern Continental Divide, which demarcates the plain from the ACF River Basin in the Gulf Coastal Plain to the west. The province is bordered on the west by the Atlantic Seaboard fall line and the Piedmont plateau, to the east by the Atlantic Ocean, and to the south by the Floridian province. The Outer Lands archipelagic region forms the insular northeasternmost extension of the Atlantic coastal plain.\n\nThe province's average elevation is less than 900 meters above sea level and extends some 50 to 100 kilometers inland from the ocean. The coastal plain is normally wet, including many rivers, marsh, and swampland. There are no hills or mountains in this region of North America. It is composed primarily of sedimentary rock and unlithified sediments and is primarily used for agriculture. The area is subdivided into the Embayed and Sea Island physiographic provinces, as well as the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic coastal plains.\n"}
{"id": "3060770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3060770", "title": "Communes of Chile", "text": "Communes of Chile\n\nA commune (, ) is the smallest administrative subdivision in Chile. It may contain cities, towns, villages, hamlets as well as rural areas. In highly populated areas, such as Santiago, Valparaíso and Concepción, a conurbation may be broken into several communes. In sparsely populated areas, conversely, a commune may cover a substantial rural area together with several settled areas which could range from hamlets to towns or cities.\n\nThe term \"commune\" is ambiguous in English, but the word is commonly used in translation for \"comuna.\" A comuna is similar to a \"county\" in Anglo-American usage and practice.\n\nEach commune is governed by a directly elected body known as a municipal council (\"concejo municipal\") consisting of a mayor (\"alcalde\") and a group of councillors (\"concejales\"), for a period of four years. The communal civil service administration is known as the municipality (\"municipalidad\") and is headquartered at the mayor's office (\"alcaldía\"). According to Chilean law, a single municipality may administer one or more communes, though currently, the only such case is the municipality of Cabo de Hornos, which administers the communes of Antártica and Cabo de Hornos.\n\nChile's 346 communes are grouped into 54 provinces (\"provincia\", pl. \"provincias\"), which are themselves grouped into 16 regions (\"región\", pl. \"regiones\").\n\nTraditionally, Chilean regions are listed in geographical order starting with the northernmost region, leaving the Santiago Metropolitan Region at the end. The following table lists all Chilean communes, providing a complete list of administrative divisions at all levels. Each commune's municipality website is given along with the area and population from the National Statistics Institute's most recent census conducted in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72584", "title": "Environmental geology", "text": "Environmental geology\n\nEnvironmental geology, like hydrogeology, is an applied science concerned with the practical application of the principles of geology in the solving of environmental problems. It is a multidisciplinary field that is closely related to engineering geology and, to a lesser extent, to environmental geography. Each of these fields involves the study of the interaction of humans with the geologic environment, including the biosphere, the lithosphere, the hydrosphere, and to some extent the atmosphere. In other words, environmental geology is the application of geological information to solve conflicts, minimizing possible adverse environmental degradation or maximizing possible advantageous condition resulting from the use of natural and modified environment.\nEnvironmental geology includes:\n\n\nA peer-reviewed journal in the field is \"Environmental Earth Sciences\" (), formerly \"Environmental Geology\" ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "864494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864494", "title": "Extreme points of the European Union", "text": "Extreme points of the European Union\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of the European Union — the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location.\n\n\n\nOnly including the European continent proper, i.e. mainland of the 23 member states excluding islands such as Cyprus, Malta, Ireland or Great Britain.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1075954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1075954", "title": "Fennoscandia", "text": "Fennoscandia\n\nFennoscandia (; ; ; ) or the Fennoscandian Peninsula is the geographical peninsula comprising the Scandinavian Peninsula, Finland, Karelia, and the Kola Peninsula. It encompasses Finland, Norway and Sweden, as well as Murmansk Oblast, much of the Republic of Karelia, and parts of northern Leningrad Oblast in Russia. Its name comes from the Latin words \"Fennia\" (Finland) and \"Scandia\" (Scandinavian). The term was first used by the Finnish geologist Wilhelm Ramsay in 1898. Geologically, the area is distinct because its bedrock is Archean granite and gneiss with very little limestone, in contrast to adjacent areas in Europe.\n\nThe similar term Fenno-Scandinavia typically refers to a cultural or political grouping of Finland with Scandinavia (Denmark, Sweden, and Norway), which is a subset of the Nordic countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1318227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318227", "title": "Geography of Asia", "text": "Geography of Asia\n\nGeography of Asia reviews geographical concepts of classifying Asia, the central and eastern part of Eurasia, comprising approximately fifty countries.\n\nThe land mass of Asia is not the sum of the land masses of each of its regions, which have been defined independently of the whole. For example, the borders of Central Asia and the Middle East depend on who is defining them and for what purpose. These varying definitions are not generally reflected in the map of Asia as a whole; for example, Egypt is typically included in the Middle East, but not in Asia, even though the Middle East is a division of Asia.\n\nThe demarcation between Asia and Africa is the isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea.\nThe border with Europe starts with the coast of the eastern Mediterranean, even though Turkey in the Near East extends partly into the Aegean Islands and includes Istanbul on the European side of the Bosphorus. On the north the boundary between the continents of Asia and Europe is commonly regarded as running through the Dardanelles, the Sea of Marmara, the Bosporus, the Black Sea, the Caucasus Mountains, the Caspian Sea, the Ural River to its source, and a long border generally following the eastern side of the Ural Mountains to the Kara Sea, Russia. The Arctic Ocean is the northern border. The Bering Straits divide Asia from North America.\n\nOn the southeast of Asia are the Malay Peninsula (the limit of mainland Asia) and Indonesia (\"Isles of India\", the former East Indies), a vast nation among thousands of islands on the Sunda Shelf, large and small, inhabited and uninhabited. Australia nearby is a different continent. The Pacific islands northeast of Australia more remotely removed from Japan and Korea are Oceania rather than Asia. From Indonesia the border runs along the Indian Ocean to the Red Sea. Most of the islands in the Indian Ocean are Asian.\n\nDifferent sources give different estimates of the area enclosed by the imaginary border of Asia. The New York Times \"Atlas of the World\" gives . \"Chambers World Gazetteer\" rounds off to , while the \"Concise Columbia Encyclopedia\" gives . The 2011 Pearson's has . The methods of obtaining these figures and exactly what areas they include have not been divulged.\n\nThe map surface of mainland Asia is entirely contained within a Geodetic quadrangle formed from segments of latitude going through its north and south extremes and segments of longitude passing through the east and west extremes. Cape Chelyuskin is at 77° 43′ N; Cape Piai in the Malay Peninsula is at 1° 16′ N; Cape Baba in Turkey is at 26° 4′ E; Cape Dezhnyov is at 169° 40′ W; that is, mainland Asia ranges through about 77° of latitude and 195° of longitude, distances of about long by wide according to Chambers, or long by wide according to Pearson's.\n\nIndonesia to the southeast, a nation consisting of thousands of islands, adds a significant amount of territory to mainland Asia and extends the extreme Asian latitude further south. The geographic nature of the country raises such questions as whether the sea and the seabed count as Asia. The Australia–Indonesia border is still being negotiated. Currently a 1997 treaty remains unratified. As there are questions of fishing rights in the waters and mineral rights in the seabed, two different boundaries are being negotiated, one for the water column and one for the seabed. The southernmost seabed boundary is 10° 50' S, the latitude of Point A3, the Australia, Indonesia and Papua lokesh New Guinea common tripoint. The southernmost water column boundary is still further south at Point Z88, 13° 56' 31.8\".\n\nMedieval Europeans considered Asia as a continent, a distinct landmass. The European concept of the three continents in the Old World goes back to classical antiquity. Definition of continents has long been and remains primarily the realm of geographers, including cultural geographers as well as physical geographers. A wide majority of geographers, via nearly all atlases and many other publications from the National Geographic to the CIA World Factbook and Merriam-Webster's Geographical Dictionary define Europe, Asia and Africa as continents.\n\nThe three-continent system was an idea devised in Archaic Greece, a time of Greek colonial expansion and trade throughout the Mediterranean and the spread of writing again. Writing is a prerequisite of written geography. It had been lost during the preceding Greek Dark Ages, a period of piracy at sea and defensive parochialism on land. The preceding Mycenaean Greece left scant record of some serving women from a locality in the later Asia Minor called Asia. Europe was mainly Greece, while Libya was a small region to the west of Egypt. There was no systematic definition of \"continent;\" however, the Greek mariners did make a distinction that was to become one: the islands, nēsoi, versus the mainland, ēpeiros. One etymology relates ēpeir- to the same Indo-European root from which English \"over\" came. The Armenian form means \"bank, coast.\" The Greek form must be some sort of \"overland,\" whether continuous land or a coast that looms over. In Latin it became continens terra, \"the continuous land,\" shortened to just continens, stem continent-.\n\nMost ships of the Archaic Period were not ocean-going. They followed the shores closely, ready to put in at the first sign of trouble. It is not surprising that the first continents were \"shores,\" as they are in Herodotus, first historian whose works are extant, who relies on earlier geography now missing except for fragments. Asia is defined by two akrai, \"bluffs\" or \"shores.\" One runs from Phasis in Colchis (Georgia) at the eastern end of the Black Sea around the coast of Asia Minor to Phoenicia. The second runs from Phoenicia to the Red Sea (the ancient Red Sea comprised also the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean) and from there to India, after which \"no man can say what sort of region it is.\"\nAsia is equal to its shores, which also define Europe and Libya. The northern shore runs eastward along the line if the Phasis and Araxes Rivers; that is, south of the Caucasus Mountains, and around the south of the Caspian Sea. The southern shore continues the Red Sea and the Nile River, as Darius had constructed a canal between them. This division and system was already in place before Herodotus. He professes not to understand it: \"I am astonished that men should ever have divided Libya, Asia and Europe as they have, for they are exceedingly unequal.\" His astonishment continues: \"I cannot conceive why three names, and women's names especially, should ever have been given to a tract which is in reality one ... nor can I even say who gives the three tracts [akrai] their names.\" Previously he had spoken of two tracts. He says that an alternate northern border is the mouth of the Don River.\n\nStrabo, geographer of the Early Roman Empire, has an explanation of the geography Herodotus found so puzzling. The key is the coast-hugging requirement of most ancient navigation. As the ancient navigator passed under the Rock of Gibraltar on his way into the Mediterranean Sea (\"our sea\" to those who lived there), two paths appeared to him, the north shore or the south shore. Strabo says:\"Now as you sail into the strait at the Pillars, Libya lies on your right hand as far as the stream of the Nile, and on your left hand across the strait lies Europe as far as the Tanais.\"\nTo the ancient navigators of Our Sea, the continents were separated by seas. The canal extended the southern shore into the Red Sea. The symmetry of the scheme was too geometric for the Greeks to resist, as they represented all geographic masses by regular figures if they could. A triangle prevailed in the Greek imagination with points at the Pillars, the Tanais and the Red Sea. As the sides were three shores, the continents were three.\nThe geographer, Claudius Ptolemaeus, distinguishes between geography, which is \"a representation in picture of the whole known world,\" and chorography (\"study of places\"), which \"treats more fully the particulars.\" The idea of the continents is geography and is presented as such. A chorographer in Ptolemy's view was the expert in a specific locality, such as a ship captain, a merchant, or a native. Geographers consult them but they do not write geography unless they happen to be both.\n\nPtolemy was a geographer of the middle Roman Empire, an Egyptian. The idea of the continents preceded the imperial Romans but through them reached to modern time to determine today's geographic views, which are enhancements and refinements of the classical. Stating that \"continents are bounded more properly, when it is possible, by seas than by rivers,\" Ptolemy defines a three-continent system: Europe, Libya, Asia. His Libya is the North Africa of today, containing a province, Africa, whose name replaced Libya. Rejecting the Nile River as the Asian border so as not to split Egypt, Ptolemy designates the Red Sea as the border between Libya and Asia. In the north the border between Asia and Europe is a meridian through the mouth of the Don River northward \"to the unknown region.\" Asia Minor remains \"Asia properly so called.\"\n\nPtolemy's Asia extends to the Far East, approximately identical to today's Asia, except that the European border runs through the future location of Moscow, then a wilderness of forest skirted by Sarmatian tribesmen. In a striking foreshadowing of European and Asian Russia, European Sarmatia lies between the Vistula River and the Don River, while Asian Sarmatia runs east of the Don to Scythia.\n\nThe relatively recent study of plate tectonics has discovered that Asia has several regions that would be considered distinct landmasses if strictly geologic and tectonic criteria were used (for example, South Asia and East Asia). Definition of \"continental plates\" is the realm of geologists. Strictly in terms of geological landmasses or tectonic plates, Europe is a western peninsula of Eurasia and of the Africa-Eurasia landmass. In the latter, Europe and Asia are parts of the Eurasian plate, which excludes the Arabian and Indian tectonic plates.\n\nIn human geography, there are several schools of thought. The more common school follows historical convention and treats Europe and Asia as different continents, categorizing East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East as specific regions for more detailed analysis. Other schools equate the word \"continent\" to geographical \"region\" when referring to Europe and Asia in terms of physical geography. \n\nIn European languages the term \"Asian\" more commonly refers to ethnic heritage rather than a strict geographic area. In American English, \"Asian\" often refers to East Asians, while in British English, Asian often refers to South Asians. See the List of transcontinental countries for further geographic definitions. The term Asia Pacific generally refers to a combination of East Asia, Southeast Asia, and islands in the Pacific Ocean — and most are also considered part of Australasia or Oceania. Asia contains the Indian subcontinent, Arabian peninsula, as well as a piece of the North American plate in Siberia.\n\nSince the 18th century Asia has been divided into several subregions independently defined from Asia as a whole. There have been no historical consensus and there is not now any universal consensus on the use of these terms, just as there is none for the word \"Asia\".\n\nThe regions of Asia include:\n\nA survey carried out in 2010 by global risk analysis firm Maplecroft identified 16 countries that are extremely vulnerable to climate change. Each nation's vulnerability was calculated using 42 socio, economic and environmental indicators, which identified the likely climate change impacts during the next 30 years. The Asian countries of Bangladesh, India, Vietnam, Thailand, Pakistan and Sri Lanka were among the 16 countries facing extreme risk from climate change. Some shifts are already occurring. For example, in tropical parts of India with a semi-arid climate, the temperature increased by 0.4 °C between 1901 and 2003.\nA 2013 study by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) aimed to find science-based, pro-poor approaches and techniques that would enable Asia's agricultural systems to cope with climate change, while benefitting poor and vulnerable farmers. The study's recommendations ranged from improving the use of climate information in local planning and strengthening weather-based agro-advisory services, to stimulating diversification of rural household incomes and providing incentives to farmers to adopt natural resource conservation measures to enhance forest cover, replenish groundwater and use renewable energy.\n\nThe United Nations Statistics Division, charged with collecting statistical data on global regions including Asia, publishes a classification standard, United Nations M49, which assigns code numbers to continental regions, areas and countries, based on statistical purposes, and the countries and regions grouped together don't imply any assumption regarding political or other affiliations between the grouped countries. Some general data on the countries listed in M49 for the continental region, Asia (142), and one non-official region, \"Northern Asia,\" are presented below.\n\nM49 is a device for collecting useful statistics for the UNSD and is a suggested reference guide offered as a global standard for all agencies and institutions within the various UN departments that might be interested. The United Nations Statistics Division does not present it as an authoritative standard or as one that is more valid or more worthy of adoption than some other. It is not a requirement for other agencies within the United Nations, which use their own standards as are convenient for their operations.\n\nNo nations have adopted M49 as a mandatory standard. It does, however, reflect general usage concerning the political geography of Asia. M49 is updated frequently to reflect changing geopolitical circumstances.\n\nOne problematic aspect of the classification of Asia not yet definitively addressed by the Statistics Division is \"Northern Asia,\" which has no regional code and is not currently officially a region of Asia. Russia, or \"the Russian Federation,\" is a nation of Europe. The \"Northern Asia\" name is unofficially recognized; for example, the UN Group of Experts on Geographical Names includes an Eastern Europe, Northern and Central Asia Division. \"Northern Asia\" comes from traditional usage, which divides Europe from Asia at the Ural Mountains. No one at the UN is suggesting that European Russia be included in Asia or that Asian Russia be included in Europe. Their policy is that a nation shall appear once in one region. They have selected Europe. The problem remains unsolved.\nThe nations of this map with one major exception (and a few minor ones) are those defined by the World Factbook. Short forms of the names are used; sometimes abbreviations. All the nations can be found in the table below. The one major exception to the scheme is \"Russia,\" not currently officially in the continental region of Asia, but unofficially partly in it even though classified as Europe.\n\nThe countries in this table are categorised mainly, but not entirely, according to the UNSD scheme for statistical purposes used by the United Nations Statistics Division. For example, the UNSD statistical geoscheme does not recognize a \"North Asia,\" but problematic differences in point of view reach down to the country level elsewhere as well. Part of Egypt (Sinai Peninsula) is geographically in Western Asia, and the Australian external territories of Christmas Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands are often associated with Asia. However, these are not present in the UNSD geoscheme.\n\nThere is no universally defined standard Asia. Traditional views are approximate at best. Even today borders are still being defined, as between Indonesia, Australia and Oceania. As long as conflict over territory remains a human trait there may well be \"an eastern question,\" as the British Empire said of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIn evaluating the geographic position of nations of the edge of Asia some writers utilize the amorphous concept of \"transcontinental countries,\" which has different meanings to different authorities. Merriam-Webster defines it as \"going across a continent,\" as might a railroad. With regard to Asia, there is only one such country, the Russian Federation.\n\nIn a second definition, Petrovsky refers to a new tendency to form transcontinental agencies, meaning agencies whose jurisdictions cross continental borders, rather than the whole continent. Petrovsky's examples put together widely scattered sections of continents. There is no question of their trans- status. More precise views, however, require definitions of continents, which in the case of Asia are not quite so facile.\n\nA third definition emphasizes transformation in place from one continent to another. Fahey at first defines Turkey as transcontinental by virtue of being in both Anatolia and the Balkans, neglecting the historical circumstance that the Balkans as part of the Ottoman Empire were once Asian, as was much of North Africa. He then hypothesizes that Turkey, accepted into the European Union, is defined by that circumstance to be European. By this usage, the very region to which \"Asia\" was first applied is now Europe. If it is, Turkey cannot be transcontinental by being split between two continents. This sort of paradox only underlines that Asia has no precise definition in the same way that nations do, to whom a mere 100 yards of border may be of great concern.\n\nData included in the table below are per sources in linked articles when available, the CIA World Factbook when not. No attempt is made to split populations. That of Russia is for the whole country; thus, the populations and areas cannot be summed to produce those of any defined Asia. The notes state which nations might be considered transcontinental by some agency, but there is little agreement generally.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "24385114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24385114", "title": "ISO 3166-2:PN", "text": "ISO 3166-2:PN\n\nISO 3166-2:PN is the entry for the Pitcairn Islands in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently no ISO 3166-2 codes are defined in the entry for the Pitcairn Islands. The territory has no defined subdivisions.\n\nThe Pitcairn Islands are officially assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code .\n\n"}
{"id": "51901898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51901898", "title": "Indochina", "text": "Indochina\n\nIndochina, originally Indo-China, is a geographical term originating in the early nineteenth century and referring to the continental portion of the region now known as Southeast Asia. The name refers to the lands historically within the cultural influence of India and China, and physically bound by the Indian Subcontinent in the west and China in the north. It corresponds to the present-day areas of Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and (variably) peninsular Malaysia and Singapore. The term was later adopted as the name of the colony of French Indochina (today's Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos), and the entire area of Indochina is now usually referred to as the Indochinese Peninsula or Mainland Southeast Asia.\n\nThe origins of the name Indo-China are usually attributed jointly to the Danish-French geographer Conrad Malte-Brun, who referred to the area as in 1804, and the Scottish linguist John Leyden, who used the term \"Indo-Chinese\" to describe the area's inhabitants and their languages in 1808. Scholarly opinions at the time regarding China's and India's historical influence over the area were conflicting, and the term was itself controversial—Malte-Brun himself later argued against its use in a later edition of his \"Universal Geography\", reasoning that it over-emphasized Chinese influence, and suggested \"Chin-India\" instead. Nevertheless, \"Indo-China\" had already gained traction and soon supplanted alternative terms such as \"Further India\" and the \"Peninsula beyond the Ganges\". Later, however, as the French established the colony of French Indochina, use of the term became more restricted to the French colony, and today the area is usually referred to as Mainland Southeast Asia.\n\nIn biogeography, the Indochinese Region is a major biogeographical region in the Indomalaya ecozone, and also a phytogeographical floristic region in the Paleotropical Kingdom. It includes the native flora and fauna of all the countries above. The adjacent Malesian Region covers the Maritime Southeast Asian countries, and straddles the Indomalaya and Australasian ecozones.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28940335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28940335", "title": "International rankings of Burkina Faso", "text": "International rankings of Burkina Faso\n\nThese are the international rankings of Burkina Faso.\n"}
{"id": "11939050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11939050", "title": "Jamaica Channel", "text": "Jamaica Channel\n\nThe Jamaica Channel is a strait separating the islands of Jamaica and Hispaniola, in the Caribbean Sea. Along with the Windward Passage to its north. Due to its location about north-east of the Panama Canal, it is a main sea lane through which vessels with Pacific Ocean destinations sailing from the eastern seaboards of the United States and Canada, as well from Europe, frequently pass. \n\nThe strait is about wide with depths of up to .\n\nLocated in the strait about west of Haiti is Navassa Island, an uninhabited and disputed island measuring .\n\n"}
{"id": "2854703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854703", "title": "John Adams (geographer)", "text": "John Adams (geographer)\n\nEmeritus Professor John Adams (born 1938) of University College London, is a professor of geography and leading theorist on risk compensation. His book \"Risk\" is an analysis of how humans assess and respond to perceived risks.\n\nAdams is known for a theory of risk compensation, that states that a 'risk thermostat' guides much human behavior. Humans experiencing a 'safe' lifestyle seek out risky activities; but when doing them, overcompensate before returning to safety. This behaviour operates like a thermostat, regulating human behavior. He argues that because of the thermostat effect, banning risky activity will not work completely, and risk -seeking accompanies many aspects of everyday life. He spoke on this at the \"Shared Space\" conference held in Ipswich in June, 2005, where in his talk titled \"Risk Compensation versus the obedient automaton theory of human behaviour\" he discussed how understanding risk compensation was essential to the understanding of why shared space principles work for the design of public spaces such as road layouts in towns.\n\nHe has also coined the term and written extensively on the phenomenon of hypermobility, particular the misplaced belief that new road building solves traffic problems, rather than worsening them. \n\nAdams has not always voiced mainstream views on climate change. He has been critical of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and has praised \"reputable scientists who react sceptically to the “hockey stick” peddled by Sir John Houghton and the IPCC.\"\n\nAdams was a member of the advisory committee to the Anti-Concorde Project. When working in central London he was a daily cyclist, occasionally writing on cycling issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34161767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34161767", "title": "Julian Wolpert", "text": "Julian Wolpert\n\nJulian Wolpert (born 1932) is Bryant Professor Emeritus of Geography, Public Affairs, and Urban Planning at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, where he taught from 1973-2005 and chaired the Program in Urban and Regional Planning. He was previously a member of the Regional Science Department at the University of Pennsylvania (1963–73). He is a graduate of Columbia University (BA) and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, MS & PhD (Geography). He served as a U.S .Navy officer from 1956 to 1959. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and AAAS. He has been a fellow at the Russell Sage Foundation, the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral and Social Sciences, and the Woodrow Wilson Center and has been a Guggenheim fellow. Wolpert is a nationally cited scholar in the fields of location theory, urban development, migration, public and social services, and the analysis of charity, philanthropy, and the nonprofit sector, and has testified before Congress about the regulation of philanthropy. He has challenged conservatives who advocate for charitable rather than public service approaches to social policy. Wolpert served as Vice President, then President of the Association of American Geographers and Vice President of the Regional Science Association and the American Geographical Society and was elected to the American Institute of Certified Planners.\n\nWolpert's earliest research focused on testing social and economic theory based upon spatial data, productivity gaps elated to environmental risk and imperfect information, the migration decision, the relation between commuting and migration, siting and closing amenity and \"nimby\" facilities, and disaster evacuation, and the effects of sprawl on regional development. More recently, his studies concerned the nonprofit marketplace in cities, nonprofit service representation and saturation of neighborhoods, locational variations in generosity, distributional effects of foundations, the fiscal viability of nonprofits, and methods for planning and evaluating nonprofit organizations and foundations.\n"}
{"id": "588196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588196", "title": "Landscape design", "text": "Landscape design\n\nLandscape design is an independent profession and a design and art tradition, practised by landscape designers, combining nature and culture. In contemporary practice, landscape design bridges the space between landscape architecture and garden design.\n\nLandscape design focuses on both the integrated master landscape planning of a property and the specific garden design of landscape elements and plants within it. The practical, aesthetic, horticultural, and environmental sustainability are also components of landscape design, which is often divided into hardscape design and softscape design. Landscape designers often collaborate with related disciplines such as architecture and geography, soils and civil engineering, surveying, landscape contracting, botany, and artisan specialties.\n\nDesign projects may involve two different professional roles: landscape design and landscape architecture.\nThere can be significant overlap of talent and skill between the two roles, depending on the education, licensing, and experience of the professional. Both landscape designers and landscape architects practice landscape design.\n\nDesign factors include objective qualities such as: climate and microclimates; topography and orientation, site drainage and groundwater recharge; municipal and resource building codes; soils and irrigation; human and vehicular access and circulation; recreational amenities (i.e.: sports and water); furnishings and lighting; native plant habitat botany when present; property safety and security; construction detailing; and other measurable considerations.\n\nDesign factors also include subjective qualities such as: genius loci (the special site qualities to emphasize); client's needs and preferences; desirable plants and elements to retain on site, modify, or replace, and that may be available for borrowing of scenery (\"shakkei\") from beyond; artistic composition from perspectives of both looking upon and observing from within; spatial development and definition—using lines, sense of scale, and balance and symmetry; plant palettes; and artistic focal points for enjoyment. There are innumerable other design factors and considerations brought to the complex process of designing a garden that is beautiful, well-functioning, and that thrives over time.\n\nThe up-and-coming practice of online landscape design allows professional landscapers to remotely design and plan sites through manipulation of two-dimensional images without ever physically visiting the location. Due to the frequent lack of non-visual, supplementary data such as soil assessments and pH tests, online landscaping necessarily must focus on incorporating only plants which are tolerant across many diverse soil conditions.\n\nHistorically, landscape designers trained by apprenticing—such as André Le Nôtre, who apprenticed with his father before designing the Gardens of Versailles—to accomplished masters in the field, with the titular name varying and reputation paramount for a career. The professional section of garden designers in Europe and the Americas went by the name 'Landscape Gardener.' In the 1890s, the distinct classification of landscape architect was created, with educational and licensing test requirements for using the title legally. Beatrix Farrand, the sole woman in the founding group, refused the title preferring Landscape Gardener. Matching the client and technical needs of a project, and the appropriate practitioner with talent, legal qualifications, and experienced skills, surmounts title nomenclature.\n\nInstitutional education in landscape design appeared in the early 20th century. Over time it became available at various levels. Ornamental horticulture programs with design components are offered at community college and universities within schools of agriculture or horticulture, with some beginning to offer garden or landscape design certificates and degrees. Departments of landscape architecture are located within university schools of architecture or environmental design, with undergraduate and graduate degrees offered. Specialties and minors are available in horticultural botany, horticulture, natural resources, landscape engineering, construction management, fine and applied arts, and . Traditionally, hand drawn drawings documented the design and position of features for construction, but Landscape design software is frequently used now.\n\nOther routes of training are through informal apprenticeships with practicing landscape designers, landscape architects, landscape contractors, gardeners, nurseries and garden centers, and docent programs at botanical and public gardens. Since the landscape designer title does not have college degree or licensing requirements to be used, there is a very wide range of sophistication, aesthetic talent, technical expertise, and specialty strengths to be responsibly matched with specific client and project requirements.\n\nMany landscape designers have an interest and involvement with gardening, personally or professionally. Gardens are dynamic and not static after construction and planting are completed, and so in some ways are 'never done.' Involvement with landscape management and direction of ongoing garden direction, evolution, and care depend on the professional's and client's needs and inclinations. As with the other interrelated landscape disciplines, there can be overlap of services offered under the titles of landscape designer or professional gardener.\n\n"}
{"id": "6664337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6664337", "title": "List of Arab League countries by GDP (nominal)", "text": "List of Arab League countries by GDP (nominal)\n\nThis is a list of Arab League countries by gross domestic product at nominal values. Gross domestic product is the value of all final goods and services produced within a nation in a given year.\n\nThe table below shows the nominal GDP and GDP per capita data for the 22 members of the Arab League. Most figures are from the International Monetary Fund based on statistics from 2017, and are shown in current US dollars. Figures from other sources are referenced and noted as such. The GDP figure for Syria is from 2014, and its GDP per capita figure is from 2016. Figures for Palestine and Somalia are from 2016.\n\nCountries (or territories) outside the Arab League with roughly equivalent GDP and GDP per capita figures are shown alongside Arab League figures for comparison.\n\n"}
{"id": "12148018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12148018", "title": "List of HolbyBlue episodes", "text": "List of HolbyBlue episodes\n\n\"HolbyBlue\" is a British police procedural drama which was created by Tony Jordan. The show is set in the fictional city of Holby, and focuses on the daily lives of police officers working at Holby South police station. The show's ensemble cast for series one consisted of Jimmy Akingbola, Joe Jacobs, David Sterne, Cal MacAninch, James Hillier, Kacey Ainsworth, Richard Harrington, Zöe Lucker, Chloe Howman, Kieran O'Brien, Tim Pigott-Smith and Elaine Glover. Pigott-Smith departed the drama in the final episode of the first series at the conclusion of his character's storyline. Actors Oliver Milburn and James Thornton joined the drama for series two.\n\nThe creation of \"HolbyBlue\" was announced on 27 April 2006 by the BBC. It was revealed that the show would have links to British medical drama \"Holby City\". Tony Jordan was recruited to write scripts for the show and work out \"how storylines between the police station and the hospital could be intertwined.\" The first series began filming at the end of January 2007, commenced airing on 8 May 2007 at 8pm, one week later than scheduled for unknown reasons, and concluded on 26 June 2007. On 21 June 2007, it was announced that \"HolbyBlue\" would air a second series in 2008, this time for an extended run of twelve episodes. Filming recommenced in late 2007 in Surrey, and the second series began airing on 20 March 2008, concluding on 5 June 2008. Two series of \"HolbyBlue\" aired in total.\n\nOn 6 August 2008, the BBC revealed that \"HolbyBlue\" would not be recommissioned for a third series, due to a decline in viewership. The second series started with 5.6 million viewers, but by the end of May had fallen to 2.5 million. Upon the cancellation of the show, Red Planet Picture's drama executive Claire Phillips stated that \"\"HolbyBlue\" set new standards for 8pm dramas, in terms of production values, storytelling and casting.\" At the 2007 and 2008 Inside Soap Awards, \"HolbyBlue\" was nominated under the Best Drama category. Ainsworth and Lucker both received nominations for Best Actress at the TV Quick & TV Choice Awards in 2007, while \"HolbyBlue\" was nominated under the Best New Drama Series category. Akingbola was put forward for Best Male Performance in TV at the 2008 Screen Nation Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "5741319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5741319", "title": "List of Nelvana programs", "text": "List of Nelvana programs\n\nThis is a list of feature films, TV shows and specials involving production or distribution by the Canadian animation company, Nelvana.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317110", "title": "List of airports by IATA code: K", "text": "List of airports by IATA code: K\n\nThe DST column shows the months in which Daylight Saving Time, a.k.a. Summer Time, begins and ends. A blank DST box usually indicates that the location stays on Standard Time all year, although in some cases the location stays on Summer Time all year. If a location is currently on DST, add one hour to the time in the Time column.\n\n"}
{"id": "142277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142277", "title": "List of castles by country", "text": "List of castles by country\n\nThe list of castles is a link page for any castle in the sense of a fortified building.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50954632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50954632", "title": "List of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa", "text": "List of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa\n\nThis is a list of international presidential trips made by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, the current President of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "3594313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3594313", "title": "List of politicians of the Comoros", "text": "List of politicians of the Comoros\n\nThe following is a list of Comorian politicians, both past and present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4404825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4404825", "title": "List of postal codes in Peru", "text": "List of postal codes in Peru\n\nPostal codes in Peru were updated in February 2011 to employ a five-digit format. \n\nThe first three digits of the postal code identify the postal zone, which corresponds to a province. For instance, postal zone 010 corresponds to the Chachapoyas province. The remaining two digits identify a geographical part of the province. There is no relation between the last two digits and administrative boundaries.\n\nAn online tool to search for postal codes can be found here. \n\nThe historical list of postal codes from Lima and Callao is shown below. As of February 2011, these codes are no longer in use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25791148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25791148", "title": "List of power stations in Asia", "text": "List of power stations in Asia\n\nThe following pages lists the power stations in the Asian continent, by country:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40798011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40798011", "title": "List of power stations in Macau", "text": "List of power stations in Macau\n\nThe following is a list of all of the active and decommissioned power stations in Macau, China.\n\n"}
{"id": "30471614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30471614", "title": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2011", "text": "List of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2011\n\nThis is a list of presidential trips made by Barack Obama during 2011, the third year of his presidency as the 44th President of the United States.\n\nThis list excludes trips made within Washington, D.C., the U.S. federal capital in which the White House, the official residence and principal workplace of the President, is located. Additionally excluded are trips to Camp David, the country residence of the President, and to the private home of the Obama family in Kenwood, Chicago, Illinois.\n"}
{"id": "26903334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26903334", "title": "List of streets in Cologne", "text": "List of streets in Cologne\n\nThis is an overview of streets and roads in the city of Cologne. It includes a list of notable streets, for historic, transportation or other reasons and is to present an understanding of the city's road systems. The scope of this article does not cover the city's public squares.\n\nThis is a list of some notable streets in Innenstadt, Cologne.\n\nThe city of Cologne possesses one of the most comprehensive urban ring road systems. The beltways were laid out during the end of the 19th and the early 20th century and today are still being complemented and extended. Their development originated in the work of architects and urban designers such as Karl Henrici, Josef Stübben and Fritz Schumacher as well as former Cologne mayors Hermann Heinrich Becker and Konrad Adenauer.\n\nThe Cologne Ring ( or plural ) is a semi-circular, some 6 km long urban boulevard in Innenstadt, Cologne and the city's busiest and most prominent street system. The Cologne Ring is a four-lane street and part of Bundesstraße 9.\n\nThe ring sections between Barbarossaplatz and Ebertplatz are some of the busiest streets in Cologne.\n\nInnere Kanalstraße is part of a ring road system, which spans from Vorgebirgstraße in the south-west to Zoobrücke in the north-east. Innere Kanalstraße and Universitätsstraße are the longest of these streets and follow the outside outline of the Cologne Green Belt (German: \"Kölner Grüngürtel\"). They therefore encircle the district of Innenstadt to the west and north-west. These are mostly six-lane roads and follow the Inner Ring almost concentrically. Kanal- and Universitätsstraße are a major relief of traffic load on the Inner Ring. Landmarks on Universitätsstraße are the University, after which the street is named, and the Aachener Weiher with the Museum of East Asian Art. Landmarks on Innere Kanalstraße are the Colonius telecommunication tower and the Herkules tower.\n\nThe Cologne Belt (German: \"Kölner Gürtel\") is a system of ring roads which runs through the Left-Rhenish districts of Cologne. The sections of the Cologne Belt are mostly defined by the large arterial roads running perpendicular to them and are named after the districts and city parts they pass through. The Cologne Belt was set up in the early 20th century and is somewhat concentric to Kanal- and Universitätsstraße and the Cologne Inner Ring.\n\nOnly a minor street today, the Militärringstraße once had significance for the fortifications of Cologne during the 19th and early 20th century. The Militärring once was a true ring, encircling the entire city at a length of some .\n\nThe Cologne Beltway (German: \"Kölner Autobahnring\") is the generic term for the Autobahns encircling Cologne. It consists of the Bundesautobahn 3, the Bundesautobahn 4 and the Bundesautobahn 1. With an average of 160,000 cars per day on the BAB 3 and 100,000 on A4 and A1, the beltway handles one of the highest traffic volumes in Germany.\n\nThe beltway crosses the Rhine at Leverkusen Bridge in the north and Cologne Rodenkirchen Bridge in the south. The Autobahns on the beltway cross Bundesautobahn 559, Bundesautobahn 555 and Bundesautobahn 57. The Bundesautobahn 59 is tied to the beltway at the interchange Leverkusen-West in the north and to \"Dreieck\" Heumar in the south. Cologne/Bonn Airport lies on the Bundesautobahn 59.\n\nIn the following a list of arterial roads, starting clockwise in the North-East. The names of some roads indicate the city or direction, they lead towards.\n\nRight-Rhenish arterial roads all start in Deutz. Deutz is a city part of Innenstadt. Left-Rhenish arterial roads mostly start at the Cologne Ring. Of the major arterial roads, only Dürener Straße and the BAB 57 start on Universitätsstraße and Innere Kanalstraße respectively. Konrad-Adenauer-Ufer is a river embankment road, leading further into the center up to Hohenzollern Bridge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5324708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5324708", "title": "List of surface features of Mars imaged by Opportunity", "text": "List of surface features of Mars imaged by Opportunity\n\nThe following is a list of surface features of Mars imaged by the \"Opportunity\" rover. \"Opportunity\" landed in Meridiani Planum in 2004. (See also \"Opportunity\" mission timeline)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11485926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11485926", "title": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: F", "text": "List of towns and cities with 100,000 or more inhabitants/cityname: F\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3335034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3335034", "title": "Local-area augmentation system", "text": "Local-area augmentation system\n\nThe local-area augmentation system (LAAS) is an all-weather aircraft landing system based on real-time differential correction of the GPS signal. Local reference receivers located around the airport send data to a central location at the airport. This data is used to formulate a correction message, which is then transmitted to users via a VHF Data Link. A receiver on an aircraft uses this information to correct GPS signals, which then provides a standard ILS-style display to use while flying a precision approach. The FAA has stopped using the term LAAS and has transitioned to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) terminology of Ground-Based Augmentation System (GBAS). While the FAA has indefinitely delayed plans for federal GBAS acquisition, the system can be purchased by airports and installed as a Non-Federal navigation aid.\n\nThe ground-based augmentation system (GBAS) with aviation standards identified in International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPS), Annex 10 on radio-frequency navigation provides international standards for augmentation of GPS to support precision landing. The history of these standards can trace back to efforts in the United States by the Federal Aviation Administration to develop a Local Area Augmentation System (LAAS). Many references still refer to LAAS, although the current international terminology is GBAS and GBAS Landing System (GLS).\n\nGBAS monitors GNSS satellites and provides correction messages to users in the vicinity of the GBAS station. The monitoring enables the GBAS to detect anomalous GPS satellite behavior and alert users in a time frame appropriate for aviation uses. The GBAS provides corrections to the GPS signals with a resulting improvement in accuracy sufficient to support aircraft precision approach operations. For more information on how GBAS works, see GBAS-How It Works.\n\nCurrent GBAS standards only augment a single GNSS frequency and support landings to Category-1 minima. These GBAS systems are identified as GBAS Approach Service Type C (GAST-C). Draft requirements for a GAST-D system are under review by ICAO. A GAST-D system will support operations to Category-III minima. Many organizations are conducting research in multi-frequency GBAS. Other efforts are exploring the addition of Galileo corrections for GBAS.\n\nHoneywell has developed a Non-Federal CAT-1 GBAS which received system design approval from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in September 2009 [1]. The GBAS installation at Newark Liberty International Airport achieved Operational Approval on September 28, 2012. A second GBAS installed at Houston Intercontinental Airport received operational approval on April 23, 2013. Honeywell systems are also installed internationally, with an operational system in Bremen, Germany. Additional systems are installed or in the process of being installed. Operational approval of several more systems is expected shortly.\n\nLocal reference receivers are located around an airport at precisely surveyed locations. The signal received from the GPS constellation is used to calculate the position of the LAAS ground station, which is then compared to its precisely surveyed position. This data is used to formulate a correction message which is transmitted to users via a VHF data link. A receiver on the aircraft uses this information to correct the GPS signals it receives. This information is used to create an ILS-type display for aircraft approach and landing purposes. Honeywell's CAT I system provides precision approach service within a radius of 23 NM surrounding a single airport. LAAS mitigates GPS threats in the Local Area to a much greater accuracy than WAAS and therefore provides a higher level of service not attainable by WAAS.\nLAAS's VHF uplink signal is currently slated to share the frequency band from 108 MHz to 118 MHz with existing ILS localizer and VOR navigational aids. LAAS utilizes a Time Division Multiple Access (TDMA) technology in servicing the entire airport with a single frequency allocation. With future replacement of ILS, LAAS will reduce the congested VHF NAV band.\n\nThe current Category-1 (GAST-C) GBAS achieves a Category I Precision Approach accuracy of 16 m laterally and 4 m vertically. The goal of a to-be developed GAST-D GBAS is to provide Category III Precision Approach capability. The minimum accuracy for lateral and vertical errors of a Category III system are specified in RTCA DO-245A, \"Minimum Aviation System Performance Standards for Local Area Augmentation System (LAAS)\". The GAST-D GBAS will allow aircraft to land with zero visibility using 'autoland' systems.\n\nOne of the primary benefits of LAAS is that a single installation at a major airport can be used for multiple precision approaches within the local area. For example, if Chicago O'Hare has twelve runway ends, each with a separate ILS, all twelve ILS facilities can be replaced with a single LAAS system. This represents a significant cost savings in maintenance and upkeep of the existing ILS equipment.\n\nAnother benefit is the potential for approaches that are not straight- in. Aircraft equipped with LAAS technology can utilize curved or complex approaches such that they could be flown on to avoid obstacles or to decrease noise levels in areas surrounding an airport. This technology shares similar characteristics with the older Microwave landing system (MLS) Approaches, commonly seen in Europe. Both systems allow lower visibility requirements on complex approaches that traditional Wide Area Augmentation Systems (WAAS) and Instrument Landing Systems (ILS) could not allow.\n\nThe FAA also contends that only a single set of navigational equipment will be needed on an aircraft for both LAAS and WAAS capability. This lowers initial cost and maintenance per aircraft since only one receiver is required instead of multiple receivers for NDB's, DME, VOR, ILS, MLS and GPS. The FAA hopes this will result in decreased cost to the airlines and passengers as well as general aviation.\n\nLAAS shares the drawbacks of all RF based landing systems; those being jamming both intentional or accidental.\n\nThe Joint Precision Approach and Landing System (JPALS) is a similar system for military usage. Honeywell has developed the Honeywell International Satellite Landing System (SLS) 4000 series (SLS-4000) which received system design approval from the FAA on September 3, 2009, with a follow-on approval of an enhanced SLS-4000 (SLS-4000 Block 1) in September 2012.\n\nThe FAA's National Airspace System (NAS) enterprise architecture is the blueprint for transforming the current NAS to the Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen). The NAS service roadmaps lay out the strategic activities for service delivery to improve NAS operations and move towards the NextGen vision. They show the evolution of major FAA investments/programs in today's NAS services to meet the future demand. The GBAS precision approaches is one of the investment programs that provide solution to \"increase flexibility in the terminal environment\" in the NextGen implementation plan.\n\nThe FAA expected to replace legacy navigation systems with satellite based navigation technology; however the FAA has indefinitely delayed plans for federal GBAS acquisition, the system can be purchased by airports and installed as a non-federal navigation aid. The FAA continues to develop GBAS systems and seek international standardization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "515430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515430", "title": "Mount Karisimbi", "text": "Mount Karisimbi\n\nMount Karisimbi is an inactive volcano in the Virunga Mountains on the border between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of Congo. At , Karisimbi is the highest of the eight major mountains of the mountain range, which is a part of Albertine Rift, the western branch of the East African Rift. Karisimbi is flanked by Mikeno to the north, Bisoke to the east and Nyiragongo to the west, on the other side of the Rift Valley. Karisimbi is the 11th highest mountain of Africa.\n\nThe name Karisimbi comes from the word 'amasimbi' in the local language, Kinyarwanda, which means \"snow\". Snow can mostly be found during the dry season in June, July and August on the top of the volcano.\n\nBetween Karisimbi and Bisoke is the Karisoke Research Center, which was founded by Dian Fossey in order to observe the mountain gorillas living in this area.\n\nOn February 27, 1908 an expedition led by Egon Von Kirschstein was coming down the Branca Crater when a hailstorm and snowstorm caused twenty of the expedition's porters to perish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58294270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58294270", "title": "Mountains of Azerbaijan", "text": "Mountains of Azerbaijan\n\nMountains of Azerbaijan cover approximately 60 percent of the country’s land area. There are three mountain ranges in the territory of Azerbaijan, which are the Greater Caucasus, the Lesser Caucasus, and the Talysh Mountains.\n\nThe elevation of the central mountains of these three mountain ranges is approximately 1000 – 2000 meters. The height of high mountains of the Greater Caucasus is higher than 2200 meters and the Lesser Caucasus is higher than 2000 meters. \n\nThe Greater Caucasus range forms the north-east borders of Azerbaijan with Dagestan Autonomous Republic of Russia. Bazarduzu, Shahdagh, and Tufandag are the high peaks of the mountain range. The highest peak of the Greater Caucasus is Mount Bazarduzu, which is situated 14,652 feet (4466 meters) above the sea level, is also the highest point in Azerbaijan. The mountains of the Greater Caucasus are located in the region of high degree of seismic activity. The mountains are formed by rocks that date back to Jurassic and Cretaceous periods.\n\nThe Lesser Caucasus is the second important mountain range in Azerbaijan and forms its south-western borders. Mount Murovdag and Mount Zangezur are the main ridges of the Lesser Caucasus. They are formed by sedimentary and volcanogenic rocks of Cretaceous and Jurassic periods.\n\nThe Talysh Mountains cover the southeastern part of Azerbaijan and form part of its border with Iran.\n\nThe highest peak of the Greater Caucasus, Mount Bazarduzu, is the highest mountain in Azerbaijan.It lies on the borders between Azerbaijan and Russia. The rocks of Mount Bazarduzu are formed of shale porphyries. Ice fields that consist of glaciers from Ice Age on the mountain are the biggest glaciers in the Eastern Caucasus. \n\nThe first person who climbed the Mount Bazarduzu was Aleksej Aleksandrov from Russia in 1847. \nThe elevation of Mount Shahdagh is 13951 feet (4243 m), which is the second highest peak in the Greater Caucasus. The mountain is located near to the border with Russia, in Gusar region of Azerbaijan. There are caves at the base of the Mount Shahdagh, which show manmade activities around the mountain for over 9000 years. The rocks of the mountain are formed by dolomite and limestones. \n\nIt is the third highest mountain in Azerbaijan with the height of 13770 feet (4191 m.). Mount Tufandag lies in the Gusar region.\nWithin the Lesser Caucasus, the highest mountain ridge is Murovdag. The range of the mountain is approximately 70 kilometers. \n\nThe highest peak of the Murovdag ridge is Gamishdag and its elevation is 3724 meters. \n\nThe Zangezur mountain ridge bordered with Aghdaban peak in north-west and Araz river in south-east. The range of the Zangezur ridge is approximately 130 kilimeters. In the center and south-east parts of the ridge, there are Gamigaya, Kaputjukh, Garangush, Davabouynu, Aychingil peaks. Prominent mountains of the Zangezur ridge are Nahajir, Alinja, Ilandag, Gurddag, and Gizilboghaz mountains. \n\nMount Kaputjukh is the highest peak of the Zangezur ridge and the highest mountain in the Lesser Caucasus. The height of the mountain is 3904 meters. It lies in Ordubad region of Nakhchivan. There are ancient Gamigaya inscriptions on the rocks that are at the bottom of the mountain.\n\nMount Alinja is located in Julfa region of Nakhchivan, on the shore of the river with the same name as mountain. The elevation of Mount Alinja is 1811 meters. It has volcanic origins. \n\nTalysh mountains are located in the south – east of Azerbaijan.  There are three mountain ridge within the Talysh mountains, which of elevations reach 2477 meters. They are Talysh, Burovar, and Peshteser. There are few peaks that of heights are above 3000 meters (10000 ft). The rocks of the mountains originated from volcanic rocks and carbonate rocks that date back to the Jurassic, Cretaceous, and Paleogene periods. \n\nThe highest peak of Talysh mountains is the Mount Kyumyurkyoy (2493 meters).\n\nMount Gizyurdu is the second highest peak of Talysh mountains with the height of 2433 meters.\nThe elevation of Mount Goyazan is located 20 kilometers far from Qazakh district of Azerbaijan. Its elevation is 250 meters. The mountain has volcanic origin and it is not connected to any mountain ridges. At the bottom of the mountain, there are ancient dwellings.\nYanar Dag is located 27 kilometers far from Baku. On the surface of Yanar Dag, there are fires of natural gas that flames continuously, and their height reaches to 10-15 meters.\n\nThe historical-cultural and natural reserve was established in the territory of Yanar Dag by the presidential decree dated May 2, 2007.\n\nGeography of Azerbaijan\n\nMinistry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Azerbaijan Republic\n"}
{"id": "57876199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57876199", "title": "Ngerkeai", "text": "Ngerkeai\n\nNgerkeai is a village in Babeldaob island, the largest island in the island nation of the Republic of Palau. The village is the administrative center of Ngiwal state of Palau. \n"}
{"id": "36975056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36975056", "title": "Norte Grande Geography Journal", "text": "Norte Grande Geography Journal\n\nNorte Grande Geography Journal or Revista de geografía Norte Grande is an academic journal published by the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile. Its scope was initially confined to geography related topics of northern Chile. In 1980 it changed its name from \"Norte Grande\" to \"Revista de geografía Norte Grande\" reflecting a broadened scope to encompass all of Chile extending to Latin American topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "6846425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6846425", "title": "Portinho", "text": "Portinho\n\nPortinho is a village on Príncipe Island in the nation of São Tomé and Príncipe located 2 km east of the island capital Santo António. Its population is 3 (2012 census).\n"}
{"id": "24554383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24554383", "title": "Privy digging", "text": "Privy digging\n\nPrivy digging is the process of locating and investigating the contents of defunct outhouse vaults. The purpose of privy digging is the salvage of antique bottles and everyday household artifacts from the past. Privy digging is a form of historical digging and is often conducted on private residential properties. Construction sites and major developments around older areas of towns and cities are also likely places to look for evidence of privies.\n\nHistorical contractors (privy diggers who enter into contracts enabling them to investigate vaults on commercial or industrial properties) are also engaging in privy digging. Privies are also called pits, holes, and chambers. In some locations, like New York City, vaults are sometimes referred to as “wells”, due to their appearance and often considerable depth. In these instances well digging is synonymous with privy digging.\n\nThere are controversies regarding who should be permitted to investigate private residential privies and the historical significance of what is found in them. From a conventional academic perspective, it is assumed that all privies contain vital and unique information which cannot be found elsewhere and that a costly forensic approach is required. Privy diggers who are not professional archaeologists are labeled “looters”, even while working on sites which are in the process of being destroyed or have already been examined and worked by archaeologists. While both parties are engaging in similar activities, each is confronted with very different logistics, constraints, and unique opportunities for genuine discovery.\n\nUS academics responding to the threat of privy digging, dump digging, metal detecting, and so on have helped create laws protecting objects of a certain age, usually only 50–100 years old, from exploitation by opportunistic looters and other thieves that disturb historic context in pursuit of treasure. Laws intended to safeguard legitimate national and cultural treasures are applied to any item found while digging.\nPrivies can be constructed of stone, brick, or wood and vary considerably from place to place. Some privy vaults are less than 2 feet deep and others are more than 25 feet. They can be as narrow as 2 feet or as wide as 10 feet, particularly in urban settings where a large privy shed with multiple doors and inner compartments once stood. Some vaults are cylindrical, these are usually made of stone or brick. Though there are cylindrical privies that are actual wooden barrels placed in the ground. Others are rectangular and commonly made of stone, brick, or wood. Many shallower rectangular vaults were only wood-lined.\n\nMany privies were cleaned out periodically (“dipped”). This routine process addressed the growing concern for foul odors and airborne illnesses which was prevalent at the time. Dipping also provided some of the necessary organic material for the fertilizer industry. Around the time that modern plumbing was installed, many were cleaned out and backfilled with newer material. These dipped vaults do not have an undisturbed night soil layer and the probability of one containing anything of major archaeological importance is extremely low.\n\nMost privies are located behind the building or buildings which they served. In major urban areas, such as older cities on the US east coast, they are commonly found in the rear section of the residential lot and their size will vary considerably from place to place. Old fire insurance maps, such as Sanborn, indicate that some properties were several lots wide and sometimes had two or more houses within the same boundary line. In these instances only one privy vault may exist for all the houses being considered or one may exist for each.\n\nIn other cases structures apparently had no outlying property at all. It is assumed that these particular vaults were incorporated into a neighboring lot or perhaps placed within the structure itself somewhere, possibly the basement. Some insurance maps show outbuildings and sheds, and occasionally privy outlines too. For example, 19th century insurance maps for New York City generally do not have markings indicating privy placements and some for New Jersey do. However, when researching the latter, privy diggers find no evidence that a privy ever existed where the map outline indicates one should be.\nSome privy diggers also research excavation sites where old houses and other buildings, such as factories, saloons, and hotels once were. The use of heavy machinery can lead to indications of stone or brick structures and other subterranean anomalies being unearthed. This in turn can lead to discoveries of privies, cisterns, root cellars, and trash pits. Managers and owners of construction sites may not accommodate privy diggers on their missions to salvage on these sites.\n\nSome of them are enthusiasts themselves and agreements can be formed allowing diggers to search for privy vaults and landfill deposits. Some historical diggers focus exclusively on these kinds of sites and over time develop good relations with various development companies. Permission to salvage on these sites can lead to remarkable discoveries with relatively little physical effort but this is the exception to the rule.\n\nWhen a property is determined to be old enough to have had an outhouse somewhere within its original boundaries, probing and test digging are the common methods for finding it. The basic probe is made of spring steel and between 4’ and 6’ feet in length. Many variations exist and each locale being probed has its own peculiarities regarding which equipment and what techniques should be applied. Adept privy diggers develop considerable skill interpreting the faint residues which come up on the end of a probe and the subtle noise variations encountered while sliding it in and out of the ground.\n\nTest digging involves making a small hole, and going down a few feet, to determine that a probe reading is accurate. Once something other than dirt and rocks are being encountered and man-made objects are buried deeply in a particular spot, the outline of the privy is carefully excavated. This can take hours or days depending on its size and the materials being dug through. Dug dirt or “fluff” as it is sometimes called, is systematically removed from the hole by shoveling. Deeper holes require a rope and bucket setup and sometimes a tripod mechanism to assist with the removal of material.\n\nDue to extreme odors and overfilling, a high percentage of privy vaults were cleaned out, to varying levels, while still in use. This is commonly referred to as “dipping” among privy diggers. The amount of dipping that occurred, how far down a well material was cleared and how frequently it was cleared, varied from privy to privy. After plumbing was installed at the residence there was a final cleaning, which had a tendency of removing everything down to the deepest level of the vault.\n\nEven at depths reaching 30 feet or more, some of the deepest vaults known to exist, many were cleaned to the base. Alternatively, a small percentage of shallow vaults extending down about 3 feet or less have contained noteworthy bottles, numerous fragments of dinner plates, cups, bowls, pitchers, tobacco pipes, clam and oyster shells, food bones and even sparse night soil pockets around the edges.\n\nDuring the mid 19th century operators connected to the booming waste-generated fertilizer (night soil) business circulated cities and towns emptying vaults. In rural areas where vaults are usually much smaller and shallower farmers and other property owners often conducted this task themselves. Despite lying in human waste and other decaying refuse for years, many recyclable bottles of the time, and other reusable items, were retrieved during the dipping process. Genuine garbage would be taken to landfills and other suitable locations and dumped, along with a never ending supply of stove and fireplace ashes.\n\nThe evidence suggests that not all dippers were equally concerned with being meticulous and periodically dozens of bottles, and even some night soil, can still be found while privy digging. The many out of place bottles sometimes discovered in clusters near the top or bottom of a dipped out vault are referred to by diggers as “kick-backs”, or “throw-ins”, and were left intentionally by the workers who cleaned out the privy.\n\nThroughout the decades of the middle and late 19th century, the years diggers tend to focus on due to rapid changes in bottle manufacturing, privies were only incidental or sporadic dumping spots for bottles, kitchen garbage and other refuse. Some privies were never used for that purpose at all and for practical reasons only a very small percentage of a household’s total trash could ever be distributed there. Due to the enormous quantities of everyday garbage being produced by this time in history, not to mention the hundreds of millions of bottles sold each year in the United States alone, the vaults would have filled up very quickly requiring constant maintenance instead of being emptied just every so often.\n\nMoreover, it was generally acceptable to dump reeking trash just about anywhere then without worrying about legal consequences. Preferred places were lowland areas near the edges of towns and cities, down embankments and into ravines, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, bogs, shorelines, backyard burning pits and other locales. For example, New York City sent scows brimming with garbage out into the harbor everyday where very cheap labor shoveled it directly into the water without a second thought. This process went on for centuries and an endless supply of collectable items, antiques and archaeological information alike remain in these dumping places to this day.\n\nA sterile mixture of dirt, sand, rocks, ashes, brick bats and other worthless debris manufactured around 1880-1920 was used to backfill privies once plumbing was installed at a particular address. With or without night soil deposits remaining down below there is no longer any offensive odor.\n\nPrivy digging is directly linked to antique bottle collecting. Glass or clay bottles are the most likely items to be found in an average 19th century privy. Yet, more often than not they are found prohibitively damaged. This may be due to the large number of brickbats and stones which are found at all levels of the privy. Excavators have theorized that at least some of them were thrown in with the intention of crushing down the contents of the vault, so it could be used longer without needing to be cleaned. The high percentage of broken items is one reason why privy digging is one of the most unpredictable and arduous methods of attempting to form a bottle collection.\n\nPontiled medicine bottles, ink bottles, beer and soda bottles, and many others, particularly those manufactured between the 1830s-1860s are among the most sought after and can sell for thousands of dollars each. However, in reality an average pontiled find discovered while privy digging is worth less than twenty dollars. Even these are not discovered consistently in most locations.\n\nNot unlike old stamps and coins invariably they are required to be in mint or very good condition to be sufficiently interesting to a serious bottle collector. An enormous quantity of rare bottles are known to exist in private collections, museums, museum and university basements, and elsewhere but these prime examples are seldom found on average privy digs. In fact a high percentage of all valuable bottles and related containers were never buried in privies, dumps or elsewhere; these are known as “attic” bottles among privy diggers and bottle collectors.\n\nThere are exceptions and over time some groups of regularly active diggers, operating in good locations, will encounter thousands of antique bottles and other interesting things. The vast majority of items will be very common examples of nominal value and not very useful to serious collectors, historians, or archaeologists.\n\nNot unlike dump diggers privy diggers may also encounter miscellaneous tableware (banded ware, redware, mocha, and other slipwares), stoneware, occasionally clay pipes, doll parts, tea set pieces, marbles, buttons, chamber pots, decorative porcelain pot lids and bases used for pomades and skin creams, bone or ivory toothbrush handles, hard-rubber combs and hair picks, ambrotypes, and other objects which are usually broken or damaged.\n\nMost of these items were valueless and intentionally discarded into the privy, others fell through the opening in the outhouse seat, and some were lost at the hands of small children. In each instance the insides of active vaults were very caustic environments, the highly toxic ingredients causing most things to break down and rot very quickly.\n\nPrivy diggers, along with dump diggers and other historical diggers are enthusiastic about making their own discoveries and will get sufficiently dirty as a result. Though there are some exceptions this work is usually done by hand and requires a remarkable degree of persistence and tenacity. Career level diggers are obsessive by nature, sometimes achieving considerable skill with the various forms of privy digging techniques available. Some privy diggers also use a metal detector to pinpoint old coins and other easy to miss metal objects. Some privy diggers are metal detectorists and some metal detectorists are also privy diggers, dump diggers and so on. However, each designation is a specific subject on its own.\nPrivy digging has things in common with dump digging and to some degree treasure hunting and garbology but is none of these exclusively as it involves salvaging the contents of defunct privies more than anything else. Privy digging and dump digging are equally concerned with antique bottles and related items. Though many exceptions exist in most instances even the oldest dump-bottles are not as old as privy bottles can be.\n\nDumps are commonly associated with bottles and trash manufactured between the 1880s-1920s. This was a time when everyday bottles were being mass-produced annually by the hundreds of millions. They were reused less and often thrown away rather than recycled due to their relatively inexpensive production costs.\n\nMany bottles were still being mouth-blown and their lips formed by assorted tooling devices as late as 1915-20. The patent for the first fully automatic bottle machine, the Owens Automatic Bottle Machine, was not issued until 1903. And by 1906 it was swiftly replacing the old method at glasshouses nationwide. Early examples of machine made bottles manufactured between about 1906 and 1915 often resemble their predecessors in shape and color and can be nominally valuable for that reason.\n\nWhether found in privies or dumps late period mouth-blown bottles manufactured between about 1880-1915 have a lesser amount of serious collectable potential depending on rarity, condition and color. Dug bottles manufactured between 1880 and 1915 have sold for hundreds or even thousands of dollars but statistically this is very rare.\n\nAlthough privy diggers usually attempt to focus on the contents of vaults built before the Civil War, these too can also contain bottles made as late as the 1920s or later up near the top. Depending on when a vault went into permanent disuse it could contain bottles and debris deposited as late as the second half of the 20th century. According to a 1950 census 50 million homes reported no indoor plumbing. In 1990 more than 4 million old style privies were still in use coast to coast. No matter what is encountered near the top assuming a given vault was active in 1850 its potential for older bottles lying at a lower section has a consistently strong draw for serious privy diggers.\n\nWhether mold blown or free blown (both forms of mouth-blowing and considered hand made), most bottles produced before 1860-65 have a distinct scar on their base. This mark is the result of removing the pontil rod. Something which was temporarily fused to the base in order to handle them effectively while they were still exceedingly hot, as their necks and lips were being tooled at the glassworks. The decades just prior to the absence of pontil rods from bottle-glass making were a time when endless variations pertaining to shape, size, style, color and embossing were being produced regularly in an unprecedented quantity. Some of the most interesting bottles were manufactured during this time; 1830s-1860s.\n\nEven after the pontil rod was replaced by assorted clamping mechanisms known as “snap cases”, many bottles were still being created in the same interesting molds and sold in huge quantities annually. These are known as smooth base bottles and are sometimes found in privies which were in use after the 1860s and as late as the 1880s. Visually, the difference between an early smooth base and a pontiled example of exactly the same bottle is insignificant but to a collector it often means everything. Rare early smooth base bottles can occasionally be as valuable as rare pontiled bottles but statistically they are unlikely to be discovered with any regularity on average privy digs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1002984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1002984", "title": "Subarctic", "text": "Subarctic\n\nThe subarctic is a region in the Northern Hemisphere immediately south of the true Arctic and covering much of Alaska, Canada, Iceland, the north of Scandinavia, Siberia, and the Shetland Islands. Generally, subarctic regions fall between 50°N and 70°N latitude, depending on local climates.\n\nMonthly temperatures are above for at least one and at most three months of the year. Precipitation tends to be low due to the low moisture content of the cold air. Precipitation is typically greater in warmer months, with a summer maximum ranging from moderate in North America to extreme in the Russian Far East. Except in the wettest areas glaciers are not large because of the lack of winter precipitation; in the wettest areas, however, glaciers tend to be very abundant and Pleistocene glaciation covered even the lowest elevations. Soils of the subarctic are generally very acidic largely because of the influence of the vegetation both in the taiga and in peaty bogs, which tends to acidify the soil, as well as the extreme ease with which leaching of nutrients takes place even in the most heavily glaciated regions. The dominant soil orders are podsols and further north gelisols.\n\nSubarctic regions are often characterized by taiga forest vegetation, though where winters are relatively mild, as in northern Norway, broadleaf forest may occur—though in some cases soils remain too saturated almost throughout the year to sustain \"any\" tree growth and the dominant vegetation is a peaty herbland dominated by grasses and sedges. Typically, there are only a few species of large terrestrial mammals in the subarctic regions, the most important being elk, moose (\"Alces alces\"), bears, reindeer (\"Rangifer tarandus\"), and wolves (\"Canis lupus\"). Agriculture is mainly limited to animal husbandry, though in some areas barley can be grown. Canada and Siberia are very rich in minerals, notably nickel, molybdenum, cobalt, lead, zinc and uranium, whilst the Grand Banks and Sea of Okhotsk are two of the richest fisheries in the world and provide support for many small towns.\n\nExcept for those areas adjacent to warm ocean currents, there is almost always continuous permafrost due to the very cold winters. This means that building in most subarctic regions is very difficult and expensive: cities are very few (Murmansk being the largest) and generally small, whilst roads are few. Subarctic rail transport only exists in Europe (lines to Narvik and Murmansk) and the Norilsk–Dudinka line in northern Siberia. An important consequence is that transportation tends to be restricted to \"bush\" planes, helicopters and, in summer, riverboats.\n\nExcept for a few parts of Europe where the winters are relatively mild due to prevailing wind and ocean current patterns, subarctic regions were not explored until the 18th and 19th centuries. Even then, the difficulty of transportation ensured that few settlements (most of them created for mining) lasted long—the abandoned, once-thriving cities of the Yukon, Northwest Territories and increasingly Siberia illustrate this.\n\nThe Trans-Siberian Railway, which skirts the edge of the region, provided a major boost to Russian settlement in the subarctic, as did the intensive industrialization under Joseph Stalin that relied on the enormous mineral resources of the Central Siberian Plateau. Today, many towns in subarctic Russia are declining precipitously as mines close. In Canada, after the early minerals ran out, development stalled until hydroelectric development occurred in the 1950s and 1960s. Hydro-Quebec in particular has carried out many engineering works in regions of near-continuous permafrost, but these have never supported a significant population and have mainly served densely populated southern Quebec.\n\nTourism in recent years has become a major source of revenue for most countries of the subarctic due to the beautiful, generally glacial, landscapes so characteristic of the region. Most areas in the subarctic are among the most expensive places in the world to visit, due to both high costs of living and inaccessibility. Nonetheless, the great opportunities for outdoor recreation lure an ever-increasing number of travelers. At the same time, the older industries of the subarctic (fishing, mining, hydroelectric power) are being threatened by both environmental opposition and overfishing leading to depleted stocks of commercially important species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "385081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385081", "title": "Sudan (region)", "text": "Sudan (region)\n\nThe Sudan is the geographic region to the south of the Sahara, stretching from Western to eastern Central Africa. The name derives from the Arabic \"\" (), or \"the lands of the blacks\", referring to West Africa and northern Central Africa. The Arabic name was translated as \"Negroland\" on older English maps.\n\nHistorically, the name was understood to denote the western part of the Sahel region. It thus roughly encompassed the geographical belt between the Sahara and the coastal West Africa. In modern usage, the phrase \"The Sudan\" is also used in a separate context to refer specifically to the present-day country of Sudan, the western part of which forms part of the larger region, and from which South Sudan gained its independence in 2011.\n\nThe Sudan region extends in some 5,000 km in a band several hundred kilometers wide across Africa. It stretches from the border of Senegal, through southern Mali (formerly known as French Sudan when it was a French colony), Burkina Faso, southern Niger, northern Nigeria, northern Ghana, southern Chad, the western Darfur region of present-day Sudan, and South Sudan.\n\nTo the north of the region lies the Sahel, a more arid Acacia savanna region that in turn borders the Sahara Desert further north, and to the east the Ethiopian Highlands (called \"al-Ḥabašah\" in Arabic). In the southwest lies the West Sudanian Savanna, a wetter, tropical savanna region bordering the tropical forests of West Africa. In the center is Lake Chad, and the more fertile region around the lake, while to the south of there are the highlands of Cameroon. To the southeast is the East Sudanian Savanna, another tropical savanna region, bordering the forest of Central Africa. This gives way further east to the Sudd, an area of tropical wetland fed by the water of the White Nile.\n\nThe people of the Sudan region share similar lifestyles, dictated by the geography of the region. The economy is largely pastoral, while sorghum and rice are cultivated in the southern parts of the region.\n\nThe region was governed in colonial times by European powers, including the French and the British, as part of their African colonial empires, but the countries of the region achieved independence in the latter half of the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41624490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41624490", "title": "Surveying in early America", "text": "Surveying in early America\n\nThe history of surveying in early America included the mapping of large, unknown territories and the layout of the District of Columbia. Several presidents were involved, including George Washington.\n\nGeorge Washington was not only a founding political father of the U.S., he was a founding surveyor of Virginia, as well. At the age of eleven, he inherited Ferry Farm. When George reached school age, instead of a career in the Royal Navy, George went to school to study surveying and geometry. His first surveying tools were from his own storehouse on Ferry Farm. At the age of 17, under the tutelage of Joshua Fry, he surveyed the northern neck of Virginia and became the county surveyor for Culpeper County, Virginia. By the time of the French and Indian War, he had laid out most of northern Virginia, and this knowledge would contribute to his success during the war.\n\nFrom 1747 to 1799, he surveyed 200 tracts of land, and due to his also being a land speculator, he amassed of land.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War, he appointed the first geographer of the Continental Army, Robert Erskine.\n\nSurveying was not only for the wealthy plantation owners, but the entire new nation needed to be surveyed, and resurveyed. Most of all, the proposed new capital city, bearing Washington’s name, needed to be surveyed. A two-man team would survey what became the District of Columbia in 1791. The first was Benjamin Banneker, a free ex-slave, who learned to read, write, and do math from his grandmother. Banneker would go on to be a leading astronomer, mathematician, clock maker, and most of all, a surveyor. The second man was Andrew Ellicott. He would go on to do several prominent surveys of the area and assist Lewis and Clark in planning their expedition.\n\nPrior to independence, Peter Jefferson, along with his son Thomas Jefferson, were land surveyors for the crown. At this time, surveyors used a system known as the metes and bounds system, which used \"monuments\"; identifiable objects such as rocks, trees etc., as property markers. The surveyor would measure from monument to monument. The major problem with this system was the fact that these monuments were not necessarily permanent. As a result, Thomas Jefferson was involved in the creation the Public Land Survey System. A comparison of county boundaries in the various states graphically displays the difference between the systems, as counties in the Eastern states are irregularly shaped whereas counties in the Midwest tend to be square or rectangular.\n\nNeeding money to pay the debts for the Revolutionary War, Jefferson began selling land in the Northwest Territory in plots of for $2.50 an acre. Soon after, he sold the land in plots of for 1.25 an acre. The NW Territory was surveyed using the Rectangular System. This system used a central point determined by a Principal North-South Meridian Line and an East-West Base line.\n\nJefferson convinced Congress to accept the land deal with Napoleon. As a result of the Louisiana Purchase and Jefferson’s love for nature, Jefferson organized the Lewis and Clark expedition. Andrew Ellicott taught Lewis and Clark how to use a sextant to map their position. Lewis and Clark would leave from Wood River, Illinois and document the wilderness all the way to the Pacific Ocean.\n\nAbraham Lincoln came to New Salem in 1831, and shortly after in 1832, he lost in his bid to become a state representative. The Sangamon County Surveyor, John Calhoun, then offered Lincoln a job as Deputy Surveyor due to the high volume of resurveying.\n\nAs Deputy Surveyor, Lincoln surveyed five towns, four roads, and thirty properties. The first was the plat for Huron, a proposed town North of Springfield that never came to be. The proposal was that county would build a canal to straighten the Sangamon River, but the canal was never built. The last town Lincoln laid out was New Boston, a town at the confluence of the Iowa River and the Mississippi River. Instead of payment for his work, Lincoln had his surveying equipment repossessed and sold. Unknown to Lincoln, Jimmy Short, a friend, bought all of his equipment, his horse, and his saddlebags. Short returned Lincoln’s surveying equipment and later, as president, Lincoln returned the favor by making Short the Indian Agent of the Round Lake Indian Reservation.\n"}
{"id": "7479355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7479355", "title": "Szepes County", "text": "Szepes County\n\nSzepes (; , , ) was an administrative county of the Kingdom of Hungary, called Scepusium before the late 19th century. Its territory today lies in northeastern Slovakia, with a very small area in southeastern Poland. For the current region, see Spiš.\n\nSzepes county shared borders with Poland and with the counties as follows: Liptó, Gömör, Abaúj and Sáros. After the late 18th century dismemberment of Poland, the border was with the Austrian province of Galicia. Its area was 3,668 km² in 1910. The county became part of Czechoslovakia, apart from a very small area now in Poland, after World War I, and is now part of Slovakia (and Poland).\n\nThe original seat of government of Szepes county was Spiš Castle (Hungarian: Szepesi vár), which was constructed in the 12th century. Unofficially from the 14th century, and officially from the 16th century, until 1918 the capital of the county was Lőcse (present-day Levoča).\n\nFrom the beginning of the 15th century, the county was subdivided into three processuses. The number was changed to four in 1798. In the second half of the 19th century, the number of processuses (districts) was increased.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the subdivisions of the county Szepes were (town names first in Hungarian, then in Slovak, then in German):\n\nThis article only covers the history of Szepes when it was part of the Kingdom of Hungary (approx. 11th century – 1918). For a complete history of the region see Spiš.\n\nThe southern part of Szepes was conquered by the Kingdom of Hungary at the end of the 11th century, when the border of the Kingdom ended near Késmárk (present-day Kežmarok). The royal county of Szepes (\"comitatus Scepusiensis\") was created in the second half of the 12th century. In the 1250s, the border of the Kingdom of Hungary shifted to the north to Podolin (present-day Podolínec) and in 1260 – in the northwest – to the Dunajec river. The northeastern region around Gnézda (present-day Hniezdne) and Ólubló (present-day Stará Ľubovňa) (the so-called \"districtus Podoliensis\") were incorporated only in the 1290s. The northern border of the county stabilized in the early 14th century. Around 1300, the royal county became a noble county.\n\nThe subsidiary of the Hungarian Chamber (the supreme Habsburg financial and economy institution in the Kingdom of Hungary) responsible for eastern territories (i.e. not only for Szepes) was called the \"Szepes Chamber\" (\"Zipser Kammer\" in German), and it existed from 1563 to 1848. Its seat was the town of Kassa (present-day Košice), sometimes Eperjes, (present-day Prešov).\n\nThe rulers of the county were from the following Hungarian noble families:\n\nUntil 1802, there was a Seat or 'Parvus comitatus', known as 'Sedes superior' (upper county) or 'Sedes X lanceatorum' (county of the ten lance-bearers), which was situated to the east of Poprad in present-day southern Spiš, and whose origin is unknown. From the 12th century onwards, its inhabitants were known as the \"guardians of the northern border.\" The territory of the county was populated by Germans, Hungarians and Slavs \"(Theotonicis, Hungaris et Sclavis)\". In 1802, when its inhabitants decided to merge the sedes with Szepes county, it included the following settlements: Ábrahámfalva/Abrahámovce, Betlenfalva/Betlanovce, Filefalva/Filice (today part of Gánovce), Hadusfalu/Hadušovce (today part of Spišské Tomášovce), Primfalu/Hôrka (including Kišovce, Svätý Ondrej, Primovce), Hozelecz/Hozelec, Jánócz/Jánovce (including Čenčice), Komarócz/Komárov, Lefkóc/Levkovce (today part of Vlková), and Mahálfalva/Machalovce (today part of Jánovce). Originally more villages were included.\n\nThe 'lance-bearers' were squires. The \"sedes\" was a collection of non-contiguous areas, which did not constitute a continuous territory. It had an autonomous government, similar to that of normal Hungarian counties, but was partly subordinated to the head of Szepes county. Until the 15th century, its capital was Csütörtökhely/Štvrtok/Donnersmark (present-day Spišský Štvrtok - which was not part of the sedes territories); following this there were various capitals, and after 1726 the capital was Betlenfalva/Betlensdorf (present-day Betlanovce).\n\nMany of the towns of Szepes developed from German colonization of existing Slovak settlements. The German settlers had been invited to the territory from the mid-12th century onwards. The major immigration came following the devastating Mongol invasion of 1242, which turned Szepes, like other parts of the Kingdom of Hungary, into a largely depopulated area (some 50% of the population was lost). There was no significant Slavic population remaining and as it was a part of Hungary, King Béla IV of Hungary invited Germans to colonize the Szepes and other regions (covering parts of present-day Slovakia, present-day Hungary and Transylvania). The settlers were mostly traders and miners. The settlements founded by them in the southern parts (Szepesség) were mainly mining settlements (later towns). Consequently, until World War II, Spiš had a large German population (see Carpathian Germans). The last wave of Germans arrived in the 15th century.\n\nIn the early 13th century, the people of Szepes created their own religious organization called the \"Brotherhood of the 24 royal parish priests\", which received many privileges from the local provost. It was re-established after the Tatar invasion in 1248.\n\nAt the same time, the German settlements of the Hernád (present-day Hornád) and Poprád (present-day Poprad) basins created a special political territory with its own administration. They received collective privileges from King Stephen V in 1271, which were confirmed and extended by King Charles I in 1317, because the Szepesian Germans had helped him to defeat the oligarchs of the Kingdom of Hungary in the battle at Rozgony (present-day Rozhanovce) in 1312. The territory was granted self-government privileges similar to those of the royal free towns. In 1317, the special territory included 43 settlements, including Lőcse (present-day Levoča) and Késmárk (present-day Kežmarok), which however withdrew before 1344. From 1370 the 41 settlements of the territory subscribed to a uniform special Szepes law system (called \"Zipser Willkür\" in German). Initially, the special territory was called \"Communitas (or Provincia) Saxonum de Scepus\". By the mid-14th century, the territory was reduced to 24 settlements and later the name was changed to \"Provincia XXIV oppidorum terrae Scepusiensis\" in Latin (\"Bund der 24 Zipser Städte\" in German [i.e. Province/Union of 24 Szepes towns]). The province was led by the Count (\"Graf\") of Szepes elected by the town judges of the 24 towns.\n\nThere was yet another privileged territory in Szepes. Until 1465, the privileged German mining towns in southern Szepes (e.g. Göllnitz/Gölnicbánya/Gelnica, Schwedler/Svedlér/Švedlár, Einseidel/Szepesremete/Mníšek nad Hnilcom, Helzmanowitz/Helcmanóc/Helcmanovce, Prakendorf/Prakfalva/Prakovce, Vagendrussel/Merény/Vondrišel (today called Nálepkovo), Jeckelsdorf/Jekelfalva/Jaklovce, Margetzan/Margitfalu/Margecany, Schmölnitz/Szomolnok/Smolník, Höfen/Szalánk/Slovinky, and Krompach/Korompa/Krompachy) were also exempt from the power of the Count of Szepes.\n\nThe Province of 24 Szepes towns was dissolved in 1412, when, by the Treaty of Lubowla King Sigismund of Luxembourg, ruler of Hungary, pawned 13 of the towns of the former Province, as well as the territory around the Ólubló (present-day Stará Ľubovňa) (i.e. the royal domain Lubló, plus Gnézda and Podolin, and several villages) to Poland, in exchange for the amount of 37,000 Czech sixty-groschen coins, that is, approximately 7 tonnes of pure silver. This was to finance his war against the Republic of Venice. The pledged towns were to be returned to the Kingdom of Hungary as soon as the loan was repaid; nobody expected the pledge would take 360 years to redeem (from 1412 to 1772).\n\nFrom 1412 the pawned towns were officially known as the \"Province of 13 Szepes Towns\" (although it included also the three towns in the territory of Ólubló, making a total of 16 towns). It was led by a count elected each year by a council including representatives of the towns, past mayors, and the previous count. The 13 main pawned settlements did not form a continuous territory. They included: Leibic (present-day Ľubica), Poprád (present-day Poprad), Mateóc (Matejovce, today in Poprad), Szepesszombat (Spišská Sobota, today in Poprad), Strázsa (Stráže pod Tatrami, today in Poprad), Felka (Veľká, today in Poprad), Ruszkin (Ruskinovce, no longer in existence, located in the military training area Javorina near Kežmarok), Szepesbéla (present-day Spišská Belá), Igló (present-day Spišská Nová Ves), Szepesváralja (present-day Spišské Podhradie), Szepesolaszi (present-day Spišské Vlachy), Duránd (present-day Tvarožná), and Ménhárd (present-day Vrbov).\n\nThe towns kept their privileged status (now in fealty to the Polish kings who did not alter their privileges). The Polish king ceded his interest in the towns to Count Sebastian Lubomirski in 1593, whose family then became effectively the proprietors of the province.\n\nThe remaining 11 of the former 24 Szepes towns, which created the \"Province/Union of 11 Szepes towns\" in 1412, were not able to maintain their privileges. As early as 1465 they were fully incorporated into the Szepes county, i.e. they became subjects of the lords of the Spiš Castle. Some of them gradually turned into simple villages and lost their German privileges. Having privileges from both the Polish and the Hungarian crowns gave the \"Province of 13\" to significant commercial advantages over Lőcse (present-day Levoča) and other towns in the \"Province of 11\".\n\nThe pawned territories remained politically a part of the Kingdom of Hungary (and of its Esztergom diocese), while the revenue from the territories went to Poland. Poland also held some administrative powers in the area and was entitled to appoint a governor/administrator (\"starosta\") for the territories, with his seat in Lubló, to manage them economically (especially to collect tax revenues) and to position guards at important road crossings even outside the pawned territories. One of the first Polish governors of Szepes was the famous knight Zawisza Czarny. Due to their complex political and economic status (German towns with Slovak subjects, although the number of Slovaks in the towns was less than 5% in the area pawned to Poland), the towns declined economically.\n\nAttempts of the Kingdom of Hungary to repay the debt (most notably in 1419, 1426, and 1439) failed and later the will (or ability) to pay declined. After alleged mistreatment of the towns – especially by Teodor Konstanty Lubomirski, Maria Josepha of Austria (queen consort of August III of Poland), and Count Heinrich Brühl – Maria Theresa of Austria decided to recover them by force. She took advantage of the Polish noble insurrections in the second half of the 18th century and occupied the towns in 1769 (with the apparent consent of the then Polish king Stanislaus II of Poland) without debt repayment. This act was confirmed by the First Partition of Poland in 1772. In 1773, the pawn was cancelled. In 1778, the 13 towns regained their privileges of 1271, the privileges were extended to the other three previously pawned towns, and this newly formed entity was named \"Province of 16 Szepes towns\". The capital of the province was Igló, also known as Neudorf and later as Spišská Nová Ves. However, the privileges were gradually reduced and some 100 years later only religious and cultural rights remained. Finally, the province was dissolved altogether and incorporated into Szepes county in 1876.\n\nThe Szepes county (today:Spiš region) prospered not only from being situated on trade routes, but also from its natural resources of wood, agriculture and, until relatively recent times, mining. In the 15th century and later, iron, copper and silver were all exploited in the south of the region. Its relative wealth during this period, and its mixture of nationalities and religions, resulted in it becoming a major cultural centre – many schools were founded, and the town of Lőcse (present-day Levoča) became a major centre for printing in the 17th century. The buildings and churches of the region's towns, and the skills of schools such as those of the carver Master Paul of Levoča testify to this affluence and culture. Until the end of the 17th century, the area was often disrupted by wars, uprisings against the Habsburgs, and epidemics (a plague of 1710/1711 killed over 20,000). But from the 18th century onwards, relative stability enabled faster economic development. Many craft guilds were founded and by the end of the 18th century over 500 iron mines were operative in the south.\n\nSuch prosperity naturally meant that the churches paid great interest to the region. А Lutheran synod, the so-called Synod of Szepesváralja, took place in Szepesváralja (present-day Spišské Podhradie) in 1614. It discussed the Protestant organisation of the Szepes and Sáros counties. In the Catholic sphere, a separate Szepes Bishopric was created in 1776 with its seat at Szepeshely (present-day Spišská Kapitula).\n\nThe spirit of nationalism, growing in the 19th century, moved also in Spiš. In 1868, 21 settlements of Szepes sent their demands, the 'Szepes Petition', to the Diet of the Kingdom of Hungary, requesting special status for Slovaks within the Kingdom.\n\nIn 1871, the railway came to Szepes and this was to have profound consequences. On the one hand, it enabled economic and industrial expansion. On the other, it bypassed the old capital of the region, Lőcse (now Levoča), and favoured the growth of centres on its route, such as Poprád (now Poprad) and Igló (now Spišská Nová Ves).\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, Szepes county became part of newly formed Czechoslovakia, as recognized by the concerned states in the 1920 Treaty of Trianon.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 172,091 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn 1910, the county had a population of 172,867 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1910, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to censuses carried out in the Kingdom of Hungary in 1869 (and later in 1900 and 1910) the population of Szepes county comprised the following nationalities: Slovaks 50.4%, (58.2%, 58%), Germans 35% (25%, 25%), Ruthenians (Rusyns) 13.8% (8.4%, 8%) and 0.7% (6%, 6%) Magyars (Hungarians). The sudden increase in listed Hungarians after 1869 may be due to statistical interpretation (use of \"most frequently used language\" as criterion); it may also be attributable to assimilation, Magyarisation, most notably of the German minority. The figures do not make clear how Jews were categorised, but their numbers must have been substantial as many of the towns had synagogues (one survives in Spišské Podhradie) and Jewish cemeteries still survive in Kežmarok, Levoča and elsewhere.\n\nUp until now, there is a significant population (about 40,000 to 48,000 estimated) of ethnic Poles (practitally without any exception, the Gorals using polish dialect of Szepes region). The Hungarian censuses ignored the Polish nationality, all ethnic Poles were registered as Slovaks. There was also a very strong process of Slovakization of Polish people throughout 18th–20th centuries, mostly done by Roman Catholic Church, in which institution the local aboriginal Polish priests were replaced with Slovak ones. Also the institution of schooling was replacing the polish language with slovak language during classes.\n\nUp until the 12th century, there were no Hungarians (except the area of The Spis Castle and the Church of Saint Martin) in the region. The Slovak and German inhabitants came to Szepes in following centuries in a process of colonitazion the Carpathian wilds by Hungarian Crown . All localities were inhabited by Poles, as a result of a natural process of colonizing the lands along the rivers, going up-stream. In this case, the river was Poprád river (today Poprad) which flows into the Vistula and thus belongs to the drainage basin of the Baltic Sea (as opposed to nearby Hornad and Vah, and all other Slovak rivers; Poprad is the only river in contemporary Slovakia going north), and all colonists originated from Sądecczyzna and Podhale region of Southern Poland.\n\nEconomic activity in the region was principally based on agriculture (and, in the mediaeval period, mining).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12972210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12972210", "title": "Telephone numbers in Liechtenstein", "text": "Telephone numbers in Liechtenstein\n\nCountry Code: +423 (formerly +41 75)<br>\nInternational Call Prefix: 00<br>\nTrunk Prefix: None\n\nLiechtenstein previously used the Swiss telephone numbering plan (+41) under area code 075 (formerly dialed as +41 75 from outside Switzerland and Liechtenstein), but in April 1999, it adopted its own international code +423, meaning that calls to and from Switzerland now require international dialing. It is dialed internationally as +423 xxx xx xx.\n"}
{"id": "397870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397870", "title": "Triangular trade", "text": "Triangular trade\n\nTriangular trade or triangle trade is a historical term indicating trade among three ports or regions. Triangular trade usually evolves when a region has export commodities that are not required in the region from which its major imports come. Triangular trade thus provides a method for rectifying trade imbalances between the above regions.\n\nHistorically the particular routes were also shaped by the powerful influence of winds and currents during the age of sail. For example, from the main trading nations of Western Europe, it was much easier to sail westwards after first going \"south\" of 30 N latitude and reaching the so-called \"trade winds\"; thus arriving in the Caribbean rather than going straight west to the North American mainland. Returning from North America, it is easiest to follow the Gulf Stream in a northeasterly direction using the westerlies. A similar triangle to this, called the \"volta do mar\" was already being used by the Portuguese, before Christopher Columbus' voyage, to sail to the Canary Islands and the Azores. Columbus simply expanded this triangle outwards, and his route became the main way for Europeans to reach, and return from, the Americas.\n\nThe best-known triangular trading system is the transatlantic slave trade, that operated from the late 16th to early 19th centuries, carrying slaves, cash crops, and manufactured goods between West Africa, Caribbean or American colonies and the European colonial powers, with the northern colonies of British North America, especially New England, sometimes taking over the role of Europe. The use of African slaves was fundamental to growing colonial cash crops, which were exported to Europe. European goods, in turn, were used to purchase African slaves, who were then brought on the sea lane west from Africa to the Americas, the so-called Middle Passage. Despite being driven primarily by economic needs, Europeans sometimes had a religious justification for their actions. In 1452, for instance, Pope Nicholas V, in the \"Dum Diversas\", granted to the kings of Spain and Portugal \"full and free permission to invade, search out, capture, and subjugate the Saracens [Muslims] and pagans and any other unbelievers ... and to reduce their persons into perpetual slavery.\"\n\nA classic example is the colonial molasses trade. Merchants purchased raw sugar (often in its liquid form, molasses) from plantations in the Caribbean and shipped it to New England and Europe, where it was sold to distillery companies that produced rum. The profits from the sale of sugar were used to purchase rum, furs, and lumber in New England which merchants shipped to Europe. With the profits from the European sales, merchants purchased Europe's manufactured goods, including tools and weapons. Then the merchants shipped those manufactured goods, along with the American sugar and rum, to West Africa where they were bartered for slaves. The slaves were then brought back to the Caribbean to be sold to sugar planters. The profits from the sale of slaves in Brazil, the Caribbean islands, and the American South were then used to buy more sugar, restarting the cycle. The trip itself took five to twelve weeks.\nThe first leg of the triangle was from a European port to Africa, in which ships carried supplies for sale and trade, such as copper, cloth, trinkets, slave beads, guns and ammunition. When the ship arrived, its cargo would be sold or bartered for slaves. On the second leg, ships made the journey of the Middle Passage from Africa to the New World. Many slaves died of disease in the crowded holds of the slave ships. Once the ship reached the New World, enslaved survivors were sold in the Caribbean or the American colonies. The ships were then prepared to get them thoroughly cleaned, drained, and loaded with export goods for a return voyage, the third leg, to their home port, from the West Indies the main export cargoes were sugar, rum, and molasses; from Virginia, tobacco and hemp. The ship then returned to Europe to complete the triangle.\n\nHowever, because of several disadvantages that slave ships faced compared to other trade ships, they often returned to their home port carrying whatever goods were readily available in the Americas and filled up a large part or all of their capacity with ballast. Other disadvantages include the different form of the ships (to carry as many humans as possible, but not ideal to carry a maximum amount of produce) and the variations in the duration of a slave voyage, making it practically impossible to pre-schedule appointments in the Americas, which meant that slave ships often arrived in the Americas out-of-season. When the ships did reach their intended ports, only about 90% of the passengers survived the journey across the middle passage. Due to the slaves being transported in tight, confined spaces, a significant percentage of the group that started perished on board or shortly after arrival due to disease and lack of nourishment. Cash crops were transported mainly by a separate fleet which only sailed from Europe to the Americas and back mitigating the impact the slaves involvement brought forth. The Triangular trade is a trade model, not an exact description of the ship's route.\n\nA 2017 study provides evidence for the hypothesis that the export of gunpowder technology to Africa increased the transatlantic slave trade by making it easier for Africans to enslave each other: \"A one percent increase in gunpowder set in motion a 5-year gun-slave cycle that increased slave exports by an average of 50%, and the impact continued to grow over time.\"\n\nNew England also made rum from Caribbean sugar and molasses, which it shipped to Africa as well as within the New World. Yet, the \"triangle trade\" as considered in relation to New England was a piecemeal operation. No New England traders are known to have completed a sequential circuit of the full triangle, which took a calendar year on average, according to historian Clifford Shipton. The concept of the New England Triangular trade was first suggested, inconclusively, in an 1866 book by George H. Moore, was picked up in 1872 by historian George C. Mason, and reached full consideration from a lecture in 1887 by American businessman and historian William B. Weeden.\nThe song \"Molasses to Rum\" from the musical \"1776\" vividly describes this form of the triangular trade.\n\nThe term \"triangular trade\" also refers to a variety of other trades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32653988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32653988", "title": "Tserona Subregion", "text": "Tserona Subregion\n\nTserona Subregion is a subregion in the southern Debub region of Eritrea. The area was a major battle zone during the Eritrean-Ethiopian War and has been a source of territorial dispute between Eritrea and Ethiopia about Tsorona-Zalambessa.\n\n"}
{"id": "31756251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31756251", "title": "Twin Peaks (Antarctica)", "text": "Twin Peaks (Antarctica)\n\nThe Twin Peaks are two sharply defined peaks, high, standing together north of Mount Taylor and west of the head of Hope Bay at the north-east end of the Antarctic Peninsula. They were discovered by the Swedish Antarctic Expedition, 1901–04, under Otto Nordenskiöld, and named by the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey following their survey of the area in 1946.\n"}
{"id": "56670714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56670714", "title": "Victor Watts", "text": "Victor Watts\n\nVictor Watts, (18 April 1938 – 21 December 2002) was a British toponymist, medievalist, translator, and academic, specialising in English place names. He served as Master of Grey College, Durham from 1989 until his sudden death in 2002. He had been a lecturer in English at Durham University from 1962, honorary director of the English Place-Name Survey from 1993, and editor of the \"Journal of the English Place-Name Society\" from 1996.\n\nWatts was born on 18 April 1938. He was educated at Bristol Grammar School, then an all-boys independent school in Bristol. He studied at Merton College, Oxford, and at the University of London.\n\nIn 1962, Watts jointed Durham University as a lecturer in English language. He was promoted to senior lecturer in 1974. His first association with Grey College, Durham was as a pastoral tutor. Then, from 1984 to 1989, he served as the college's senior tutor and vice-master. In 1989, he was appointed Master of Grey College. He was, by his death, one of the longest serving head of college at Durham University. He additionally served as Dean of Colleges, leading the university's 15 colleges, between 1999 and 2002.\n\nOutside of his university, he held a number of positions. He was an active member of the Architectural and Archaeological Society of Durham and Northumberland: he served successively as vice-president and then president of the society between 1983 and 1991. In 1993, he was appointed honorary director of the English Place-Name Survey, and therefore of the English Place-Name Society, in succession to Kenneth Cameron. He served as general editor of the society's survey volumes from 1994, and was also editor of the \"Journal of the English Place-Name Society\" from 1996.\n\nWatts had three children with his first wife, Mary Watts: two daughters and a son. Having divorced Mary, he later married Elaine; this marriage brought two stepsons.\n\nWatts died on 21 December 2002, aged 64. He had had a heart attack.\n\nWatts had been elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS), and a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (FSA).\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3738066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738066", "title": "Volodymyr Kubiyovych", "text": "Volodymyr Kubiyovych\n\nVolodymyr Mykhailovych Kubiyovych, also spelled \"Kubiiovych\" or \"Kubijovyč\" (; 23 September 1900, Nowy Sącz, Austrian Galicia – 2 November 1985, Paris, France) was a Ukrainian geographer with a specialty in demography, a cartographer, an encyclopedist, politician, and statesman. Of mixed Ukrainian and Polish ethnic background, he was an important intellectual supporting the Ukrainian national movement in inter-war Poland, and his scholarly works from this period dealt with the Ukrainian ethnic presence in Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Romania, and with the geographical boundaries of ethnographic Ukraine.\n\nDuring World War II he headed the Cracow-based Ukrainian Central Committee which organized social and charitable work among Ukrainians in occupied Poland. Kubiyovych became a main proponent of the cooperation between certain Ukrainian Nationalist organizations and Nazi Germany with the ultimate goal of achieving an independent Ukrainian national state. After the war, he retired from political work but became one of the leading scholars of the Ukrainian diaspora in the West. After 1945, and throughout the Cold War, Kubiyovych remained a target of vociferous criticism by the Soviet authorities, focusing on some of his wartime activities, in particular his sponsoring of the Ukrainian division of Waffen-SS.\n\nKubiyovich was born in 1900 in Nowy Sącz; his father was an ethnic Ukrainian while his mother was an ethnic Pole, and he was baptized into the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church. From 1918, Kubiyovych was educated at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow. After the collapse of Austria-Hungary, he served in the ranks of the Ukrainian Galician Army which unsuccessfully fought the Poles for control of the eastern part of the former Austrian province of Galicia. At the end of the Ukrainian-Polish war, he returned to his studies in geography at the Jagiellonian University. During the years 1928 to 1939, Kubiyovych taught at this institution as a lecturer (docent) but in 1939, was denied further tenure under political pressure from the Polish Ministry of War. In 1940, he was appointed professor of the Ukrainian Free University in Prague which managed to preserve a precarious existence in Nazi-occupied Czechoslovakia. From 1931, Kubiyovych had been a full member of the Galician-based Shevchenko Scientific Society, which had with some difficulty carried on its scholarly work under Polish rule; Kubiyovych headed its geography commission.\n\nBefore 1939, Kubiyovych's scholarly works concentrated on the geography and demography of the Carpathian Mountains, especially the eastern Beskids, populated largely by the Ukrainian-speaking minority. At this time, he questioned official Polish statistics concerning the ethnic make-up of the inter-war Polish Republic and maintained that the official numbers on Ukrainians were grossly understated. He was an editor and co-author of the pioneering Ukrainian-language \"Atlas of Ukraine and Adjacent Lands\" (1937) and the equally pioneering Ukrainian-language \"Geography of Ukraine and Neighbouring Lands\" (1938, 1943).\n\nDuring World War II he headed the Ukrainian Central Committee (UCC) in Cracow which was the officially recognized Ukrainian community and quasi-political organization under the Nazi occupation. It was responsible for social services, veteran affairs, education, youth and economic activities. For example, after a flood and famine in Transcarpathia, the Committee was able to save and resettle 30,000 children. By late 1943 it operated 1,366 kitchens and was able to feed 100,000 people. When the Germans began to kill Ukrainian peasants in the Zamosc region for alleged resistance, Kubiyovych's protest to Hans Frank was able to halt that slaughter. The Committee was also able to build student residence housing for 7,000 students, provided scholarships worth 1.35 million zlotys, and organized over 100 youth groups, camps and sports clubs.\n\nAfter the Soviet-Nazi alliance ended in June 1941, Kubiyovych worked with the Germans in the creation of the \"Galicia Division\", 14th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS Galicia (1st Ukrainian) and took a leading role in its organization. The division was organized after the battle of Stalingrad as part of the German program of creating foreign formations of the Waffen-SS to fight on the Eastern Front against the Soviet Union and was to be commanded by German officers. These foreign units were formed mainly with volunteers recruited from nations that suffered enormously under the Soviet rule: Estonians, Latvians, Ukrainians, but also ethnic Russians (e.g. ROA). The proponent and formal organizer of the division was SS \"Brigadeführer\" Otto Wächter, the Nazi governor of the newly created Galicia District and former governor of Cracow. The proposal was made to Himmler on March 1, 1943 and the division was publicly inaugurated on 28 April. With the examples before him of the Polish and Ukrainian legions formed in Austria-Hungary during the First World War, Kubiyovych was hoping to influence its essence and structure as the core of a future national army which would defend the interests of the Ukrainian people after the defeat of Germany and the chaos that was expected to ensue. However, the Germans would not allow the use of the name \"Ukrainian\" in the division's name and the end of the Second World War turned out to be quite different from what was expected.\n\nDuring the war, on more than one occasion Kubiyovych protested to the German authorities against the rough treatment of the local Ukrainian population. Some of this material was later brought up as evidence at the famous Nuremberg Trials of Nazi war criminals.\n\nSome Ukrainian sources claim that during the war Kubiyovych used his official position to ameliorate Ukrainian-Polish tensions in Galicia and in 1944 called for a halt to the fierce armed underground conflict between the two sides. These sources also credit him with saving some three hundred people, \"basically Jews\", from persecution by the Nazi authorities.\n\nIn 1944, Kubiyovych, moved to Germany where he at first settled in the American occupation zone in West Germany, and then later moved to France. In Germany, he reorganized the Shevchenko Scientific Society as an émigré institution. He was its Secretary General from 1947 to 1963, and, from 1952, President of its European branch.\n\nIn exile, Kubiyovych became the chief editor of the Ukrainian-language \"Encyclopedia of Ukrainian Studies\" (\"Entsyklopediya ukrayinoznavstva\", ten volumes, 1949–84), the largest scholarly project undertaken by Ukrainian émigrés during the Cold War. While written largely reflecting Kubiyovych's own strong Ukrainophile views, his encyclopedia, was meant to preserve Ukrainian national heritage which, at that time, was intentionally neglected and downgraded by the Soviet Russian-speaking regime in Ukraine. Kubiyovych's encyklopedia continues to be a valuable source of reference to this day.\n\nKubiyovych later became the chief editor of \"Ukraine: A Concise Encyclopædia\" published in two volumes (1963–71), an English translation of the thematic part of the \"Entsyklopediya ukrayinoznavstva\". A new revised and expanded English-language edition of the great ten-volume alphabetic part was published under the title \"Encyclopedia of Ukraine\" in Canada in the 1980s and 1990s, and was only completed after Kubiyovych's death. It is presently being put on-line.\n\nDuring his exile in France, Kubiyovych enjoyed considerable prestige as the most prominent Ukrainian scholar in the free world. He also enjoyed the respect of the influential Polish intellectual, Jerzy Giedroyć, another resident of Paris, and who wrote in his autobiography that he thought that Kubiyovych had behaved honourably during the war (\"Zachowal się świetnie\"). In 1991, after Ukraine declared independence from the Soviets, scholars in Ukraine began reprinting Kubiyovych's major works, especially his encyclopedias, making them available to a wider readership in the home country for the first time.\n\nIn his later years, Kubiyovych published three volumes of memoirs describing his experiences in inter-war Poland, the Second World War, and émigré scholarly life in Germany and France during the Cold War. The most wide-ranging of these was the Ukrainian-language volume titled \"I am 85 Years Old\" (Paris-Munich, 1985).\n\nVolodymyr Kubiyovych died on 2 November 1985 in Paris.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, the hostile Soviet propaganda line on Kubiyovych lost its official status, and was replaced by a nationalist line. His works, including his encyclopedias, were published in Ukraine where they are now in wide circulation. In 2000 a pre-stamped envelope was issued by the Ukrainian postal service honouring 100-year anniversary of Kubiyovych's birthday.\n\n"}
