{"id": "183734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183734", "title": "100 Club Punk Special", "text": "100 Club Punk Special\n\nThe 100 Club Punk Special (sometimes referred to as the 100 Club Punk Festival) was a two-day event held at the 100 Club—a typically jazz-oriented venue in Oxford Street, London, England—on 20 and 21 September 1976. The gig showcased eight punk rock bands, most of which were unsigned. The bands in attendance were each associated with the evolving punk rock music scene and movement of the United Kingdom. The concert marked a watershed for the movement, as punk began to move from the underground and emerge into the mainstream music scene.\n\nIn early September 1976, concert promoter Ron Watts approached Malcolm McLaren, manager of the Sex Pistols, the leaders of the new British punk rock scene, and proposed that they headline the event. After that, they presented the idea to The Damned and The Clash, both of which quickly agreed to participate. Siouxsie Sioux directly approached Watts and requested to join the line-up as well. McLaren then volunteered the Stinky Toys and a handful of other bands from Manchester.\n\nThe enthusiasm for this event was partly due to the very positive and extensive promotion by \"Melody Maker\" journalist Caroline Coon.\n\nMonday, 20 September\n\nTuesday, 21 September\n\nThe Vibrators were a new group that had only recently begun to write their own music and, at the encouragement of Ron Watts, they decided to back Chris Spedding for the show (who was booked to play the second night but didn't have a band behind him). Spedding taught The Vibrators a few songs in the dressing room immediately prior the actual show, leaving no real time for an actual rehearsal.\n\nSiouxsie and the Banshees' set, however, was completely improvisational. They didn't know or play any songs, and their act had a very \"performance art\" quality. Siouxsie, for instance, recited The Lord's Prayer and similar memorised pieces of text.\n\nNone of the shows were rehearsed, says Ron Watts, \"It was just people, getting up and trying to do something.\"\n\nA great many people who were later to become involved in the punk scene claimed to have \"been there\" during the two-day festival, but this is an unlikely claim; the venue had a 600-person capacity. However, amongst the \"known\" attendees were: Paul Weller of The Jam / The Style Council, Shane MacGowan (later of The Nipple Erectors and The Pogues), Shanne Bradley (of The Nipple Erectors and The Men They Couldn't Hang), Viv Albertine of The Slits, Chrissie Hynde (later of The Pretenders), Vivienne Westwood (McLaren's then partner and co-manager of the Chelsea boutique \"Sex\"), Gaye Advert and T. V. Smith (later of The Adverts), as well as members of the Bromley Contingent, the punk fashion \"avant-garde\", Andrew Czezowski (Ex manager of The Damned) and Susan Carrington who went on to start The Roxy with Barry Jones. Andrew and Susan also introduced Steve Strange and Rusty Egan to the Blitz which started the New Romantic Movement. Andrew and Susan then went even further and opened the iconic club of the eighties and nineties The Fridge in Brixton.\n\nThe event was unfortunately marred by violence when a glass, thrown by then Banshees drummer and later Sex Pistols bass player Sid Vicious, and witnessed by the artist John Keane, whose ear it nicked, shattered against a pillar during The Damned's set, blinding a young girl in one eye.\n"}
{"id": "52679847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52679847", "title": "1964 Prague Skate", "text": "1964 Prague Skate\n\nThe 1964 Prague Skate was a senior international figure skating competition held in Czechoslovakia in December 1964. It was the inaugural edition of the annual international event. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing. Czechoslovakia took the top two spots in the ice dancing competition, with gold going to the reigning world champions Eva Romanová / Pavel Roman. A future Olympic champion, Ondrej Nepela of Czechoslovakia, won the men's title ahead of East Germany's Günter Zöller. The reigning European bronze medalist, Nicole Hassler of France, took the ladies' title by defeating East Germany's Gabriele Seyfert, a future Olympic medalist, and former European medalist Jana Mrázková of Czechoslovakia.\n"}
{"id": "35647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35647", "title": "667 BC", "text": "667 BC\n\nThe year 667 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 87 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 667 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426893", "title": "672 BC", "text": "672 BC\n\nThe year 672 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 82 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 672 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n"}
{"id": "20952409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20952409", "title": "Adrian Shankar", "text": "Adrian Shankar\n\nAdrian Anton Shankar (born 7 May 1982) is an English cricketer. Shankar is a right-handed batsman and occasional off-spin bowler. He was born at Ascot, Berkshire and educated at Bedford School during his childhood. Spending the majority of his career on the fringes of county cricket, Shankar became embroiled in controversy in 2011 when he was released by Worcestershire County Cricket Club, having been discovered to have lied about his age and achievements in order to gain a professional contract.\n\nAfter leaving Bedford School, where he had played cricket for the school alongside Alastair Cook, following his A Levels in 2000, Shankar proceeded to read law at Cambridge University. It was for the university cricket club that he made his first-class debut against Middlesex in 2002. Shankar played first-class cricket for the university from 2002 to 2005, playing his final first-class match against Oxford University, while on occasion he captained the university. Shankar played 12 first-class matches for the University, scoring 384 runs at an average of 27.42. His one innings of note came against Oxford University in 2002, when he scored 143 runs from 297 balls, before being dismissed by Stephen Hawinkels. This was Shankar's only first-class century and was the only time he passed fifty. The bowling in the match was later described by Cambridge University coach Chris Scott as \"unbelievably bad\".\n\nShankar made his debut for Bedfordshire while still at Bedford School, making his debut against Norfolk in the 2000 Minor Counties Championship. Between 2000 and 2006, Shankar played infrequently for Bedfordshire, making 21 Minor Counties Championship appearances and 2 MCCA Knockout Trophy appearances, which came in 2006. It was for Bedfordshire that he made his List A debut, against Sussex in the 2005 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy at Wardown Park. He was dismissed in this match by Jason Lewry for 27 runs, which was the second highest score in Bedfordshire's innings. During this period, he played Second XI cricket for the Middlesex Second XI, Worcestershire Second XI and Sussex Second XI. However his career was interrupted for 18 months when he suffered from glandular fever.\nAfter representing the Lancashire Second XI in 2008, Shankar was given a two-year contract with Lancashire. Lancashire cricket coach, Mike Watkinson, stated \"Adrian is a quality young batsman who fills a gap in our player development programme. He has attracted interest from a number of other counties which confirms his potential\". While on the Lancashire staff, Shankar chose to study part-time for a two-year masters course in international relations, also at Cambridge. It fitted in with Shankar's ambition to play cricket for Lancashire as the course required that he only had to be in Cambridge for six weeks of the year. However, Shankar failed to impress and did not play for Lancashire's first team.\n\nWhile playing cricket in Sri Lanka in the \"Sri Lankan Mercantile League\" (later discovered to be a fictional competition likely invented by Shankar himself) he came to the attention of Worcestershire, and he signed a contract with the injury hit club in May 2011. Shankar was put straight into the Worcestershire first team, making his debut for the county in the Clydesdale Bank 40 against Middlesex, in what would be his only List A appearance for the team. In this match he opened the batting with Moeen Ali, but was dismissed for a duck by Tim Murtagh. He made a single first-class appearance for the county, which came against Durham. He scored 10 unbeaten runs in Worcestershire's first-innings, before retiring hurt with a strained cruciate ligament which was set to rule him out for six weeks.\n\nTwo weeks after signing for his new county, his claims that he was three years younger than his actual age and that he had enjoyed a successful season playing high level cricket in Sri Lanka turned out to be false. Shankar was immediately released from his contract. The cricket he played in Sri Lanka was played at a minor level, with scorecards of the series not appearing on respected archiving websites such as CricketArchive and Cricinfo, a fact it appears Worcestershire failed to check. In light of this, the England and Wales Cricket Board asked Bedfordshire, for whom he was still registered to play Minor counties cricket, to remove him from their list of eligible players. Worcestershire also passed his registration documents to West Mercia Police, who later decided not to pursue criminal charges.\n\nShankar's deception had begun at Lancashire, with Shankar claiming his age was 23. Upon his signing with the county, Lancashire released a press statement which stated the Cambridge University coach referring to him as one of the finest young players the university side had seen since John Crawley. Chris Scott contacted Lancashire to deny having made such a claim, saying \"I phoned Lancashire and made it clear that I'd never said anything of the sort\", before going on to say \"He was a poor player and there's no way I would have recommended him.\" In response to the situation, Bedfordshire president Mike Green had to say \"Frankly we [Bedfordshire] were amazed when we found out he was signing for Worcestershire because he would have struggled to get into our side. He hadn’t been good enough to get into our first XI for a good six or seven years.\" Former Lancashire player Luke Sutton, writing in his blog for the \"Daily Mail\" remembered Shankar's spell at Lancashire and recounted his and his fellow Lancashire teammates doubts about Shankar's claims. Sutton recalled the first doubt being that Shankar looked out of his depth. His other stories also didn't appear to add up, with Shankar claiming he had been part of the Arsenal Academy, but according to Sutton when they played football in warm ups he wasn't particularly good. Another claim that seeded further doubts was that Shankar had claimed to have played tennis at a national level, but when he played against teammates he was distinctly average. Doubts about his age also circulated at Lancashire, with rumours saying his was 3 years older than he claimed he was. Sutton confronted Shankar on these rumours, and when asked why the rumours existed, Shankar claimed he was on a life support machine for the first three years of his life, saying this made his body physically three years younger than it was. When Sutton questioned the fact he would still continue to grow under these circumstances, he replied \"no I didn't\" and proceeded to walk off.\n\n"}
{"id": "6733333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6733333", "title": "Banff Mountain Film Festival", "text": "Banff Mountain Film Festival\n\nThe Banff Mountain Film Festival is an international film competition and an annual presentation of short films and documentaries about mountain culture, sports, and environment. It was launched in 1976 as \"The Banff Festival of Mountain Films\" by The Banff Centre and is held every fall in Banff, Alberta. Held concurrently is the Banff Mountain Book Festival which brings the spirit of mountain literature to Banff, and features guest speakers, readings, seminars, and an international book competition.\n\nImmediately after the festival in November, a selection of the best films entered in the festival goes on tour. The host organization in each tour location chooses a program that reflects the interests of their community. Each community creates a unique celebration of local adventure and adventurers. The World Tour visits approximately 305 cities annually in 20 countries, reaching over 220,000 audience members.\n\nBanff Mountain Film Festival is also one of the members of the International Alliance for Mountain Film (IAMF).\n\nApproximately 300 films are entered into the film festival annually, and top 60 films (approximately) are selected by a pre-screening committee to be shown at the festival. During the festival, the international film festival jury chooses the best films and presents awards in various categories.\n\nEvery year the Banff World Tour team chooses about 25 films that feature a range of styles and themes, including climbing, skiing, kayaking, biking, adventure, culture, and the environment. The hosts try to choose the films that are best suited for their local audience and event. Most World Tour screenings include a range of different themes (adventure sports, environment, mountain culture, heritage, etc.) and styles (action-filled shorts; longer, more comprehensive films; amateur and professional productions; etc.). The Radical Reels Tour presentations incorporate all these elements, but the focus is on dynamic, high-adrenaline films featuring sports such as skiing, climbing, kayaking, BASE jumping, snowboarding and mountain biking, and new sports such as snow-kiting and speedriding. These activities continue to be included on the World Tour, but the Radical Reels Tour is for audiences who prefer screenings with a focus on action films.\n\n\"Finding Farley\" was the top film at the 2009 Banff Mountain Film Festival, receiving both the Grand Prize and People's Choice Award.\n\n\"Mi Chacra\", directed and produced by Jason Burlage, was the top film at the 2010 Banff Mountain Film Festival, receiving the Grand Prize.\n\nThe music was composed by Jacques Blackstone. He was commissioned in the late 1990s from the Banff Centre to write a theme for the festival. \nThe \"voice\" for the intro is provided by Richard Armstrong, a New York-based teacher and performer who conducts International Voice Workshops at the Banff Centre. The film clips come from the films that are entered in each year's festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25977439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25977439", "title": "Battle of al-Buqaia", "text": "Battle of al-Buqaia\n\nIn the Battle of al-Buqaia (Al-Buqai'a al-Hosn) in 1163, the Crusaders and their allies inflicted a rare defeat on Nur ad-Din Zangi, the Emir of Aleppo and Damascus. King Amalric I led the army of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, together with contingents from the northern Latin states, a substantial body of pilgrims who had just arrived from France, and a force brought by the Byzantine governor of Cilicia. For the Christian forces, this victory only gave a brief respite from the sustained Muslim offensive.\n\nNur ad-Din proved to be one of the most dangerous enemies the Frankish kingdom had ever faced. Starting out as Emir of Aleppo, he steadily increased his territory at the expense of his Muslim and Latin neighbors, until he gained the great city of Damascus in 1154. He seriously defeated the Crusaders at the Battle of Lake Huleh in 1157, but fell very ill immediately afterward. This event allowed the Franks to a chance to recover and, with the help of Thierry of Alsace and an army of pilgrims, to capture Harim castle later in the year. However, an attack on Shaizar failed when Reynald of Châtillon, the Prince of Antioch, quarreled with the other Franks. Consequently, Shaizar soon became the property of Nur ad-Din. In 1158, Thierry and King Baldwin III beat Nur ad-Din at Butaiha, northeast of Tiberias. The year 1160 saw the capture of Reynald, who spent the next 16 years in Nur ad-Din's dungeons. In December 1161, the Byzantine Emperor Manuel I Comnenus married Maria of Antioch and this event gave Antioch a strong protector in the emperor.\n\nBoth Amalric and Nur ad-Din soon became aware of the weakness of Fatimid Egypt, whose government had fallen into a state of decay. After the assassination of Caliph al-Zafir and a series of palace coups, Shawar seized power in 1162, was soon deposed, and appealed to Nur ad-Din for help. Neither the Latin king nor the Muslim emir could afford to let the other capture the rich prize of Egypt. Accordingly, Nur ad-Din sent his lieutenant Shirkuh with an army to support the Egyptian vizier.\n\nWhile Shirkuh campaigned in Egypt, Nur ad-Din mounted an offensive in Lebanon. Following Latin policy, King Amalric took an army to support his northern vassals, Bohemund III of Antioch and Raymond III of Tripoli. Fortuitously, a large group of French pilgrims led by Hugh VIII of Lusignan and Geoffrey Martel, the brother of William IV of Angoulême, joined the king of Jerusalem. In addition, Konstantinos Kalamanos, the governor of Cilicia brought his Greek warriors to assist the Crusaders. Nur ad-Din was no match for such a formidable combination of enemies and his army suffered a defeat. Both Muslims and Franks were impressed by the fighting qualities of the Byzantine soldiers. The negative result of al-Buqaia only made Nur ad-Din more keen for revenge.\n\nBelieving his northern front secure, Amalric took his army to Egypt. He found himself in a three-way contest between his Franks, Shirkuh, and Shawar, with the latter trying maintain Egyptian independence. Amalric ousted Shirkuh from Egypt in 1164, but the king had to rapidly abandon Egypt upon the news of a great disaster in the north. The next major encounter would be the Battle of Harim.\n\n"}
{"id": "4692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4692", "title": "Boston Corbett", "text": "Boston Corbett\n\nThomas P. \"Boston\" Corbett (January 29, 1832 – presumed dead c. September 1, 1894) was a Union Army soldier who shot and killed President Abraham Lincoln's assassin, John Wilkes Booth. Corbett was initially arrested for disobeying orders, but was later released on the orders of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, who referred to Corbett as \"the patriot\" upon dismissing him. He was largely considered a hero by the media and the public.\n\nKnown for his devout religious beliefs and eccentric behavior, Corbett drifted around the United States before disappearing around 1888. Circumstantial evidence suggests that he died in the Great Hinckley Fire in September 1894, but that remains impossible to substantiate.\n\nCorbett was born in London and immigrated with his family to New York City in 1839. The Corbetts moved frequently before eventually settling in Troy, New York. As a young man, Corbett began apprenticing as a hatter, a profession that he would hold intermittently throughout his life. As a hatter, Corbett was regularly exposed to the fumes of mercury(II) nitrate, then used in the treatment of fur to produce felt used on hats. Excessive exposure to the compound can lead to hallucinations, psychosis and twitching (known as the \"hatter's shakes\"). Historians have theorized that the mental issues Corbett exhibited before and after the Civil War may have been caused by this exposure.\n\nAfter working as a hatter in Troy, Corbett returned to New York City. He later married, but his wife and child died in childbirth. Following their deaths, he moved to Boston. Corbett became despondent over the loss of his wife and child and began drinking heavily. He was unable to hold a job and eventually became homeless. After a night of heavy drinking, he was confronted by a street preacher whose message persuaded him to join the Methodist Episcopal Church. Corbett immediately stopped drinking and became devoutly religious. After being baptized, he subsequently changed his name to Boston, the name of the city where he was converted. He regularly attended meetings at the Fulton and Bromfield Street churches where his enthusiastic behavior earned him the nickname \"The Glory to God man\". In an attempt to imitate Jesus, Corbett began to wear his hair very long (he was forced to cut it upon enlisting in the Union Army).\n\nIn 1857, Corbett began working at a hat manufacturer's shop on Washington Street in downtown Boston. He was reported to be a proficient hatter, but was known to proselytize frequently and stop work to pray and sing for co-workers who used profanity in his presence. He also began working as a street preacher and would sermonize and distribute religious literature in North Square. Corbett soon earned a reputation around Boston for being a \"local eccentric\" and religious fanatic. On July 16, 1858, Corbett was propositioned by two prostitutes while walking home from a church meeting. He was deeply disturbed by the encounter. Upon returning to his room at a boardinghouse, Corbett began reading in the Gospel of Matthew (\"And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out and cast it from thee...and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake\"). In order to avoid sexual temptation and remain holy, he castrated himself with a pair of scissors. He then ate a meal and went to a prayer meeting before seeking medical treatment.\n\nIn April 1861, early in the American Civil War, Corbett enlisted as a private in Company I of the 12th Regiment New York Militia. Corbett's eccentric behavior quickly got him into trouble. He carried a bible with him at all times and read passages aloud from it regularly, held unauthorized prayer meetings and argued with his superior officers. Corbett also condemned officers and superiors for what he perceived as violations of God's word. In one instance, he verbally reprimanded Colonel Daniel Butterfield for using profanity and taking the Lord's name in vain. He was sent to the guardhouse for several days but refused to apologize for his insubordination. Due to his continued disruptive behavior and refusal to take orders, Corbett was court-martialed and sentenced to be shot. His sentence was eventually reduced and he was discharged in August 1863.\n\nCorbett re-enlisted later that month as a private in Company L, 16th New York Cavalry Regiment. On June 24, 1864, he was captured by Confederate Colonel John S. Mosby's men in Culpeper, Virginia and held prisoner at Andersonville prison for five months. He was released in an exchange in November 1864 and was admitted to the Army hospital in Annapolis, Maryland where he was treated for scurvy, malnutrition and exposure. On his return to his company, he was promoted to Sergeant. Corbett later testified for the prosecution in the trial of the commandant of Andersonville, Captain Henry Wirz.\n\nOn April 24, 1865, Corbett's regiment was sent to apprehend John Wilkes Booth, the assassin of President Abraham Lincoln, whom Booth fatally shot on April 14, 1865. On April 26, the regiment surrounded Booth and one of his accomplices, David Herold, in a tobacco barn on the Virginia farm of Richard Garrett. Herold surrendered, but Booth refused. The barn was set on fire in an attempt to force him out into the open, but Booth remained inside. Corbett was positioned near a large crack in the barn wall. In an 1878 interview, Corbett claimed that he saw Booth aim his carbine, prompting him to shoot Booth with his Colt revolver despite Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton's orders that Booth should be captured alive. Lieutenant Edward P. Doherty, the officer in charge of the soldiers who captured Booth and Herold, stated that \"the bullet struck Booth in the back of the head, about an inch below the spot where his shot had entered the head of Mr. Lincoln.\" Booth's spinal cord was severed, and he died two hours later.\nLt. Colonel Everton Conger initially thought Booth had shot himself. After realizing Booth had been shot by someone else, Conger and Lt. Doherty asked which officer had shot Booth. Corbett stepped forward and admitted he was the shooter. When asked why he had violated orders, Corbett replied, \"Providence directed me\". He was immediately arrested and was accompanied by Lt. Doherty to the War Department in Washington, D.C. to be court martialed. When questioned by Edwin Stanton about Booth's capture and shooting, both Doherty and Corbett agreed that Corbett had in fact disobeyed orders not to shoot. However, Corbett maintained that he believed Booth had intended to shoot his way out of the barn and that he acted in self-defense. He stated, \"...Booth would have killed me if I had not shot first. I think I did right.\" Stanton paused and then stated, \"The rebel is dead. The patriot lives; he has spared the country expense, continued excitement and trouble. Discharge the patriot.\" Upon leaving the War Department, Corbett was greeted by a cheering crowd. As he made his way to Mathew Brady's studio to have his official portrait taken, the crowd followed him asking for autographs and requesting that he tell them about shooting Booth. Corbett told the crowd:\n\nI aimed at his body. I did not want to kill him...I think he stooped to pick up something just as I fired. That may probably account for his receiving the ball in the head. [W]hen the assassin lay at my feet, a wounded man, and I saw the bullet had taken effect about an inch back of the ear, and I remembered that Mr. Lincoln was wounded about the same part of the head, I said: \"What a God we have...God avenged Abraham Lincoln.\"\n\nEyewitnesses to Booth's shooting contradicted Corbett's version of events and expressed doubts that Corbett was responsible for shooting Booth. Officers who were near Corbett at the time claimed that they never saw him fire his gun (Corbett's gun was never inspected and was eventually lost). They claimed that Corbett came forward only after Lt. Colonel Conger asked who had shot Booth. Richard Garrett, the owner of the farm on which Booth was captured, and his 12-year-old son Robert also contradicted Corbett's testimony that he acted in self-defense. Both maintained that Booth had never reached for his gun.\n\nWhile there was some criticism of Corbett's actions, he was largely considered a hero by the public and press. One newspaper editor declared that Corbett would, \"live as one of the World's great avengers.\" For his part in Booth's capture, Corbett received a portion of the $100,000 reward money, amounting to $1,653.84 (). His annual salary as a U.S. sergeant was $204 (). Corbett received offers to purchase the gun he used to shoot Booth. He refused stating, \"That is not mine-it belongs to the Government, and I would not sell it for any price.\" Corbett also declined an offer for one of Booth's pistols as he did not want a reminder of shooting Booth.\n\nAfter his discharge from the army in August 1865, Corbett went back to work as a hatter in Boston and frequently attended the Broomfield Street Church. When the hatting business in Boston slowed, Corbett moved to Danbury, Connecticut, to continue his work and also \"preached in the country round about.\" By 1870, he had relocated once again to Camden, New Jersey, where he was known as a \"Methodist lay preacher\". Corbett's inability to hold a job was attributed to his fanatical behavior; he was routinely fired after continuing his habit of stopping work to pray for his co-workers. In an effort to earn money, Corbett capitalized on his role as \"Lincoln's Avenger\". He gave lectures about the shooting of Booth accompanied by illustrated lantern slides at Sunday schools, women's groups and tent meetings. Corbett was never asked back due to his increasingly erratic behavior and incoherent speeches.\n\nR.B. Hoover, a man who later befriended Corbett, recalled that Corbett believed \"men who were high in authority at Washington at the time of the assassination\" were hounding him. Corbett said the men were angry because he had deprived them of prosecuting and executing John Wilkes Booth themselves. He also believed the same men had gotten him fired from various jobs. Corbett's paranoia was furthered by hate mail he received for killing Booth. He became fearful that \"Booth's Avengers\" or organizations like the \"Secret Order\" were planning to seek revenge upon him and took to carrying a pistol with him at all times. As his paranoia increased, Corbett began brandishing his pistol at friends or strangers he deemed suspicious.\n\nWhile attending the Soldiers' Reunion of the Blue and Gray in Caldwell, Ohio, in 1875, Corbett got into an argument with several men over the death of John Wilkes Booth. The men questioned if Booth had really been killed at all which enraged Corbett. He then drew his pistol on the men but was removed from the reunion before he could fire it. In 1878, Corbett moved to Concordia, Kansas, where he acquired a plot of land through homesteading upon which he constructed a dugout home. He continued working as a preacher and attended revival meetings frequently.\n\nDue to his fame as \"Lincoln's Avenger\", Corbett was appointed assistant doorkeeper of the Kansas House of Representatives in Topeka in January 1887. On February 15, he became convinced that \nofficers of the House were discriminating against him. He jumped to his feet, brandished a revolver and began chasing the officers out of the building. No one was hurt and Corbett was arrested. The following day, a judge declared Corbett insane and sent him to the Topeka Asylum for the Insane. On May 26, 1888, he escaped from the asylum on horseback. He then rode to Neodesha, Kansas, where he briefly stayed with Richard Thatcher, a man he had met while they were prisoners of war. When Corbett left, he told Thatcher he was going to Mexico.\n\nRather than going to Mexico, Corbett is believed to have settled in a cabin he built in the forests near Hinckley, in Pine County in eastern Minnesota. He is believed to have died in the Great Hinckley Fire on September 1, 1894. Although there is no proof, the name \"Thomas Corbett\" appears on the list of dead and missing.\n\nIn the years following Corbett's presumed death, several men came forward claiming to be \"Lincoln's Avenger\". A few years after Corbett was last seen in Neodesha, Kansas, a patent medicine salesman in Enid, Oklahoma filed an application using Corbett's name to receive pension benefits. After an investigation proved that the man was not Boston Corbett, he was sent to prison. In September 1905, a man arrested in Dallas also claimed to be Corbett. He too was proven to be an imposter and was sent to prison for perjury, and then to the Government Hospital for the Insane.\n\nIn 1958, Boy Scout Troop 31, of Concordia, Kansas, built a roadside monument to Corbett located on Key Road. A small sign was also placed to mark the dug hole where Corbett had lived for a time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24403529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24403529", "title": "Carlton Club meeting", "text": "Carlton Club meeting\n\nThe Carlton Club meeting, on 19 October 1922, was a formal meeting of Members of Parliament who belonged to the Conservative Party, called to discuss whether the party should remain in government in coalition with a section of the Liberal Party under the leadership of Liberal Prime Minister David Lloyd George. The party leadership favoured continuing, but the party rebels led by Bonar Law and Stanley Baldwin argued that participation was damaging the party. The meeting voted decisively against the Coalition, which resulted in its collapse, the resignation of Austen Chamberlain as party leader, and the invitation of Bonar Law to form a Government. The Conservatives subsequently won the general election with an overall majority.\n\nThe Conservatives and Liberals, traditional rivals, had first come together in a coalition government during the First World War in 1915 under H. H. Asquith. A crisis of confidence in December 1916 led to Asquith's replacement by David Lloyd George, and the Liberal Party split between supporters of the two with Asquith's faction going into increasingly open opposition. The coalition continued after the end of the war with the 'Coalition Coupon' election, delivering a large majority for the coalition, although most coalition supporters were Conservatives. Lloyd George was never personally popular with Conservatives, and the government's introduction of Liberal policies led several Conservative MPs to go into opposition over the next four years. In October 1922, the overall state of the parties in Parliament was:\n\nConservative discontent with the Coalition was maximised by the sudden diplomatic crisis with Turkey and Lloyd George's willingness to see war over the Turkish threat to the British and French troops stationed at Çanakkale. The Foreign Secretary in the coalition government, Lord Curzon, was a Conservative but was absent when the Cabinet agreed a strong response. Curzon knew that the response would cause a diplomatic breach with France where the Prime Minister was friendly towards the Turks; in fact, the French had already ordered their troops' withdrawal. At the last minute, Curzon arranged with the French to negotiate an armistice rather than withdraw. The incident also caused some of the Dominion governments to protest. Conservatives blamed Lloyd George personally for a needless confrontation.\n\nAmid increasing public attacks on the Coalition and on Lloyd George personally, the Cabinet on 10 October decided to call a general election as a Coalition. Austen Chamberlain and David Lloyd George both arranged to speak at public meetings in defence of the Coalition. Opinion from the Conservative Party membership was reported to say that holding a general election as a Coalition would split the party, but there was speculation that if Lloyd George were replaced by a Conservative as Prime Minister, the situation might be different. Chamberlain, in his speech in Birmingham on 13 October, asserted that the Coalition was united and that Lloyd George had behaved with perfect loyalty to the Conservatives in it. He also stated that he did not intend to call a meeting for Conservatives to decide their attitude to the coalition.\n\nOn 15 October Chamberlain called a meeting of all Conservative Members of the House of Commons, to ask for a vote of confidence in his leadership and in the continuation of the coalition. Chamberlain intended that a common electoral programme be agreed for the general election and the precise details be settled after the expected victory despite the fact that Lloyd George had specifically opposed that in his speech.\n\nBefore the meeting there was particular speculation about the position of Bonar Law. He had been Leader of the Conservative Party for ten years, resigning both the leadership and his Government post in 1921 due to ill health, and he retained a large following within the party. On 7 October, a letter from Bonar Law was published by \"The Times\", outlining his views on future British policy in the Near East, which differed from that of the Coalition. While his attendance at the meeting was not certain as his health was still poor, the driving factor for Bonar Law was thought to be Conservative Party unity. Bonar Law made up his mind the day before to go to the meeting, and to oppose the Coalition there.\n\nPreparing for the meeting, several groups of Conservative MPs met to discuss the situation. Leo Amery, who disliked the idea of a Coalition which existed only for the \"negative policy of anti-Socialism\", called a meeting of 17 Conservative ministers on 16 October, at which he found many wanted Lloyd George deposed. Chamberlain heard of the meeting and accused Amery of plotting against him; Amery said that he was trying to arrange a compromise. On 18 October, Amery told chief whip Leslie Wilson that the coalition's future should be decided by a party meeting after the election; Wilson obtained Chamberlain's agreement. Also on that day, about 80 Conservative MPs met under Sir Samuel Hoare; they supported independence in the election with possible post-election co-operation with Coalition Liberals. This group organised a delegation to Bonar Law to persuade him to oppose the coalition and drafted a motion for the Carlton Club meeting.\n\nSimultaneously with the crisis, there was a by-election campaign underway in the borough of Newport caused by the death of the sitting Coalition Liberal MP. The general expectation among the press was that the Labour Party would win. The poll was held on 18 October and counted immediately after with the result being declared at 2 AM. Conservative candidate Reginald Clarry won the seat, with the Liberal candidate finishing a poor third. Because of the timing, only two London newspapers were able to cover the result in much detail, but \"The Times\" gave it particular prominence including a leader, which described it as a \"complete condemnation of the Coalition Government\" and vindicating the anti-Coalition Conservatives.\n\nThere was a large turnout of Members of Parliament to the meeting, which began at 11 AM on 19 October in the Carlton Club, with at least 286 present. At least 11 MPs were absent abroad on the day, none of whom were supporters of the Coalition. Many of those arriving at the meeting were still shocked by recently learning of the Newport result. It was noted that Chamberlain was rather coldly received, in contrast to Bonar Law and Baldwin. Although the meeting was private, a report was issued to the press by Conservative Central Office immediately after.\n\nAccording to this report, Chamberlain as chair began by complaining that the \"storm of attack and criticism\" over the Chanak Crisis had weakened Britain's influence and undermined its authority. Chamberlain referred to the imminent general election and the need to unify the party, saying that the Coalition could not continue as it was and a critical decision was needed. Explaining that the real fight was not between Conservative and Liberal but between those who stand for individual freedom and those who are for the socialisation of the state, he asserted that it was not a moment to break with old allies and that it would be impossible to get a majority against the Labour Party without cooperation with the Liberals. He then rejected the idea of \"half-hearted cooperation\" in which the Conservatives would split with the Liberals after the election if they were able to form a government on their own. Chamberlain concluded that it would be arbitrary and mad to split from the Liberals \"in face of the danger which confronts us\".\n\nChamberlain was followed by Stanley Baldwin, who put forward the views of the anti-coalition ministers. He openly threatened to stand as an Independent Conservative in the election if the coalition continued and criticised the decision to call an election without consulting the party. Baldwin referred to the description of Lloyd George as \"a dynamic force\" and noted that the result of that force was the destruction of his own Liberal Party; he feared that the same destruction would be visited on the Conservative Party in time. As evidence he referred to the fact that both he and Chamberlain were prepared to \"go into the wilderness\" should the meeting go against them, a division he attributed to Lloyd George personally. This was famously summed up in his phrase: \"a dynamic force can be a terrible thing\".\n\nVeteran MP Captain Ernest Pretyman spoke next, opposing the Coalition and asserting that the issues of the day could \"best be met by Conservative principles rather than by a Coalition of which many members are very doubtful\". Believing that the Conservative Party should come out on its own, he moved a resolution:\n\nThe motion was seconded by George Lane-Fox, who said that it was impossible for a coalition to have principles. He believed it would be wrong to pretend to the electors that the Conservative Party was independent when it was intended that the Coalition would continue as before. Frank Mildmay regarded some of the criticism of Lloyd George as unfair and unpatriotic but referred to a previous speech by Chamberlain that declared that the Government should not go into an election as a coalition. He referred to his history as a Liberal Unionist and paid tribute to the measures introduced by Conservatives and Liberal Unionists in Coalition governments but appealed for \"real true fidelity to the principles\" of the Unionist Party. Sir Henry Craik also spoke in support of fighting the election independently, believing the party had not fully exercised its influence in Government.\n\nBonar Law then spoke, admitting it was only at the last minute he decided to come to the meeting. He described the idea of the Coalition fighting and winning an election and the Conservatives then asking Lloyd George to resign in favour of Chamberlain as dishonourable since winning the election would be a mandate for Lloyd George. Bonar Law had no fear of a Labour Government being elected and thought continuing the Coalition would help Labour by making it the only credible opposition. He then described the split in the Conservative Party in which many members had refused to stand as Coalition supporters and said that carrying out Chamberlain's intentions would repeat what happened when Robert Peel repealed the Corn Laws: a split in which \"the body that is cast off will slowly become the Conservative Party, but it will take a generation before it gets back to the influence which the party ought to have\". He concluded by referring to the replacement of Asquith by Lloyd George because of the loss of confidence in Asquith's ability to win the war and stated that he had the same feeling now about Lloyd George.\n\nOne section of Bonar Law's speech was suppressed from the official report. In it Bonar Law accepted that he was \"an opportunist\" and that the smashing of the Liberal Party by Lloyd George \"did not disturb me a bit\".\n\nBonar Law was followed by the Earl of Balfour, the former Prime Minister, who made a speech in support of the Coalition. He dismissed the suggestion that Lloyd George was insinuating Liberal principles onto the Conservative ministers and believed that breaking up the Coalition would destroy the machinery that would best tackle future political issues and artificially revive the two-party system. He concluded by strongly urging the meeting to support its leader, at which there were cries of \"Bonar Law!\". Colonel Leslie Wilson, the Chief Whip of the Conservative Party and a junior Minister in the Coalition, said that it would be impossible for any member of the Government to take the course proposed by Chamberlain; if asked at the election whether he would serve under Lloyd George if the Conservatives won a majority, his answer would have to be 'No'.\n\nAfter James Fitzalan Hope made an attempt to adjourn the meeting until the following day, Sir A. Shirley Benn spoke of his recollection that the Coalition was to last one Parliament only. Lord Hugh Cecil urged a straight vote on whether there should be a Conservative policy supporting a Conservative Prime Minister, or a Coalition policy supporting Lloyd George. Chamberlain intervened from the Chair to accept that proposition and accepted that Pretyman's motion embodied it. He persuaded James Fitzalan Hope to withdraw his motion for an adjournment and then began to put Pretyman's motion to the vote. Wilfrid Ashley quickly intervened to point out that those supporting the motion were in favour of a Conservative Prime Minister and a Conservative government.\n\nThe vote was taken by cards marked with the name of the MP, and the result was announced as follows:\n\nThere were also many deliberate abstentions. A list of the votes of each Conservative Member of Parliament was among the papers left by Austen Chamberlain and was later analysed. Historian Michael Kinnear noted that MPs voted according to a clear pattern, with those in traditionally Liberal areas supporting the Coalition, while those in safe Conservative seats opposed it. The Coalition's strongest supporters were in Scotland, East Lancashire, the Southwest of England, and the East of England.\n\nImmediately after the meeting, the dissenting Conservative ministers, including Baldwin and Sir Arthur Griffith-Boscawen, gave in their resignations to Lloyd George, being followed by former Coalition supporters including Chamberlain and Balfour. Lloyd George drove to Buckingham Palace in the middle of the afternoon to offer the Government's resignation. King George V summoned Bonar Law and invited him to form a new Government, but Bonar Law demurred on the grounds that he was not leader of his party and could not accept until he was. His accession to the leadership was, however, regarded as a formality, and his first call after leaving the Palace was to invite Curzon to remain as Foreign Secretary when the Government was formed.\n\nA meeting of the Unionist Party was summoned for Monday 23 October at the Hotel Cecil and unanimously confirmed Bonar Law as the new Leader; he \"kissed hands\" and formally succeeded Lloyd George as Prime Minister in the afternoon, and immediately obtaining a dissolution of Parliament and calling a general election for 15 November.\n\nThe Conservatives secured an overall majority at the election. The Conservative Members who were first elected to Parliament in that election formed the Conservative Private Members' Committee to discuss and influence political events; the membership expanded in subsequent years as more new Conservative MPs were elected, and in 1926 all backbench members were invited to become members. The committee became popularly known as the '1922 Committee' from the year of its formation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15085687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15085687", "title": "Causes of the Franco-Prussian War", "text": "Causes of the Franco-Prussian War\n\nThe causes of the Franco-Prussian War are deeply rooted in the events surrounding the German unification. In the aftermath of the Austro-Prussian War (1866), Prussia had annexed numerous territories and formed the North German Confederation. Prussia then turned its attention towards the south of Germany, where it sought to expand its influence.\n\nFrance was strongly opposed to the annexation of the Southern German States (Bavaria, Wurttemberg, Baden and Hesse-Darmstadt), which would have created too powerful a country next to its border. In Prussia, a war against France was deemed necessary to arouse German nationalism in those States that would allow the unification of a great German empire. This aim was epitomized by Prussian Chancellor Otto von Bismarck's quote: \"I knew that a Franco-Prussian War must take place before a united Germany was formed.\" Bismarck also knew that France should be the aggressor in the conflict to bring the Southern German States to side with Prussia, hence giving Germans numerical superiority.\n\nThe immediate cause of the war resided in the candidacy of a Prussian prince to the throne of Spain – France feared encirclement by an alliance between Prussia and Spain. The Hohenzollern prince's candidacy was withdrawn under French diplomatic pressure, but Otto von Bismarck goaded the French into declaring war by altering a telegram sent by William I. Releasing the Ems Telegram to the public, Bismarck made it sound as if the king had treated the French envoy in a demeaning fashion. Six days later, France declared war on Prussia and Southern German States immediately sided with Prussia.\n\nFrench Emperor Napoleon III and Prime Minister Émile Ollivier's eagerness to relieve France from internal political convulsions also contributed to France's declaration of war on Prussia.\n\nIn October 1865, Napoleon III, ruler of France, met with Prussian Prime Minister Otto von Bismarck in Biarritz, France. It was there that the two men struck a deal— France would not get involved in any future actions between Prussia and Austria or ally herself with Austria if Prussia somehow won the war and did not allow Italy to claim Venetia. When Austria and Prussia met in May 1866, Bismarck honored the agreement made in Biarritz the previous year and refused to allow Austria to have Venetia. Austria then attempted to guarantee Italy Venetia if they remained neutral, but the two nations were unable to agree on a suitable arrangement as an alliance formed earlier in the year bound Italy to Prussia. Napoleon III then committed a serious blunder by agreeing with Austria in a treaty to accept Venetia by allowing Austria to go to war with Prussia, a move which violated the agreement Napoleon had made with Bismarck.\nAfter Prussia emerged victorious over the Austrian army at the Battle of Königgrätz (also known as Sadowa or Sadová) in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866, negotiations were being held between Austria and Prussia in July and August of that year. It was during that period that Napoleon III first discovered that a bladder stone was causing him great pains, created from gonorrheal infection. His condition was so bad during those negotiations that he was forced to retire to Vichy to recuperate, removing himself from Paris. Although the emperor favored neutrality as to not upset events, certain members of his circle thought it was an unwise move, considering the opportunity to prevent Prussia from becoming too strong. One of these men, foreign minister Édouard Drouyn de Lhuys, convinced the emperor to plant 80,000 men on the eastern border to convince Wilhelm I to maintain the balance of power in Europe. Despite this important victory, de Lhuys was subverted by several other ministers, and Napoleon III changed his mind, reverting to a position of neutrality. This change of heart would end up causing de Lhuys to ultimately lose his position. Napoleon III's wife Empress Eugénie, who took an active part throughout his rule, referred to this time much later as \"the critical date, the Empire's fatal date; it was during these months of July and August that our fate was sealed! Of all that period, there is not a single fact, not a single detail that has not remained in my mind.\"\n\nFranz Joseph of Austria accepted Bismarck's terms under the Peace of Prague. Using this to his advantage, Bismarck declared the German Confederation of 1815 null and void, and created a new network of states under Prussian control. Frankfurt-am-Main, Hannover, Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel), Holstein, Nassau, and Schleswig were annexed outright while Hesse-Darmstadt, Mecklenburg, Saxony, the Thuringian duchies, as well as the cities of Bremen, Hamburg, and Lübeck were combined into a new North German Confederation that governed nominally and was actually controlled by Prussia herself.\nBismarck was approached soon after the end of the war by Napoleon III's ambassador to Prussia, Vincent Benedetti. Benedetti brought with him a secret proposal by Napoleon III that France would approve of Bismarck's acquisition of the northern German states and their control over the southern German states if Prussia remained neutral while France annexed Belgium and Luxembourg. France had earlier guaranteed the independence of Belgium in the Treaty of London in 1839 as an \"independent and perpetually neutral state\", making the proposal a tacit agreement to break their promise. Bismarck was very surprised since he had already gained a powerful position in Europe by the armistice, and called Napoleon III's request among others later \"like 'an innkeeper's bill' or a waiter asking for 'a tip'.\" He asked Benedetti to provide the proposal in writing, and the ambassador obliged his request. This document was to be important to Bismarck later on, to great effect.\n\nThe true views of Napoleon III on the subject of the balance of power in Europe can be found in a state circular handed to every diplomatic representative for France. In this paper dated September 1, 1866, the emperor saw the future of Europe after the Peace of Prague in this manner:\n\nFrance's position in Europe was now in danger of being overshadowed by the emergence of a powerful Prussia, and France looked increasingly flat-footed following Bismarck's successes. In addition, French ruler Napoleon III was on increasingly shaky ground in domestic politics. Having successfully overthrown the Second Republic and established the Bonapartist Second Empire, Napoleon III was confronted with ever more virulent demands for democratic reform from leading republicans such as Jules Favre, along with constant rumours of impending revolution. In addition, French aspirations in Mexico had suffered a final defeat with the execution of the Austrian-born, French puppet Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico in 1867.\n\nThe French imperial government now looked to a diplomatic success to stifle demands for a return to either a republic or a Bourbon monarchy. A war with Prussia and resulting territorial gains in the Rhineland and later Luxembourg and Belgium seemed the best hope to unite the French nation behind the Bonapartist dynasty. With the resulting prestige from a successful war, Napoleon III could then safely suppress any lingering republican or revolutionary sentiment behind reactionary nationalism and return France to the center of European politics.\n\nPrussia in turn was also beset with problems. While revolutionary fervour was far more muted than in France, Prussia had in 1866 acquired millions of new citizens as a result of the Austro-Prussian War, which was also a civil war among German states. The remaining German kingdoms and principalities maintained a steadfastly parochial attitude towards Prussia and German unification. The German princes insisted upon their independence and balked at any attempt to create a federal state that would be dominated by Berlin. Their suspicions were heightened by Prussia's quick victory and subsequent annexations. Before the war, only some Germans, inspired by the recent unification of Italy, accepted and supported what the princes began to realise, that Germany must unite in order to preserve the fruit of an eventual victory.\n\nBismarck had an entirely different view after the war in 1866: he was interested only in strengthening Prussia through the eyes of a staunch realist. Uniting Germany appeared immaterial to him unless it improved Prussia's position. Bismarck had mentioned before the war the possibility of ceding territory along the Rhine to France, and Napoleon III, urged by his representatives in France, used these casual references by Bismarck to press for more of the territory that Prussia had received from Austria. These discussions, leaked by Bismarck to the German states in the south, turned former enemies into allies almost overnight, receiving not only written guarantees but armies that would be under the control of Prussia.\n\nDiplomatically and militarily, Napoleon III looked for support from Austria, Denmark, Bavaria, Baden, and Württemberg, as all had recently lost wars against Prussia. However, Napoleon III failed to secure revanchist alliances from these states. Denmark had twice fought Prussia during the First and Second Wars of Schleswig (a stalemate in the 1848–50, and a defeat in 1864 against a confederation of North German states and Austria under the leadership of Prussia), and was unwilling to confront Prussia again. As part of the settlement of the Austro-Prussian War in 1866, secret treaties of mutual defense were signed between Prussia and Bavaria, Baden, and Württemberg. What made them especially significant was that not only were they secret, giving Napoleon III a false sense of security, but Bismarck had used Napoleon III's earlier demand of territory along the Rhine to drive the southern German states into his arms. By these treaties, Prussia would defend all of the southern German states with its military power as long as their states joined the Northern Confederation in defense of Prussia. It was a bargain that would gravely threaten the French \"empereur\" and his designs on restoring French pride.\n\nThe Austrian Chancellor Count Friedrich Ferdinand von Beust was \"impatient to take his revenge on Bismarck for Sadowa.\" As a preliminary step, the \"Ausgleich\" with Hungary was \"rapidly concluded.\" Beust \"persuaded Francis Joseph to accept Magyar demands which he had till then rejected.\". However, Austria would not support France unless Italy was part of the alliance. Victor Emmanuel II and the Italian government wanted to support France, but Italian public opinion was bitterly opposed so long as Napoleon III kept a French garrison in Rome protecting Pope Pius IX, thereby denying Italy the possession of its capital (Rome had been declared capital of Italy in March 1861, when the first Italian Parliament had met in Turin). Napoleon III made various proposals for resolving the Roman Question, but Pius IX rejected them all. Despite his previous support for Italian unification, Napoleon did not wish to press the issue for fear of angering Catholics in France. Raffaele De Cesare, an Italian journalist, political scientist, and author, noted that:\nAnother reason why Beust's desired \"revanche\" against Prussia did not materialize was the fact that, in 1870, the Hungarian Prime Minister Gyula Andrássy was \"vigorously opposed.\"\n\nIn addition to the problems facing Napoleon III in obtaining potential allies, Bismarck worked feverishly to isolate France from the other European powers. Since 1863, Bismarck had made efforts to cultivate Russia, co-operating, amongst other things, in dealing with Polish insurgents. This important move gained for Bismarck the neutrality of Russia if Prussia went to war, and it also prevented Austria from taking sides with France as Austria fully supported the Poles. When Alexander II came to France on an official visit in 1867, he was at the receiving end of an unsuccessful assassination attempt by Polish-born Anton Berezovski while riding with Napoleon III and the Empress Eugenie. Tsar Alexander was very offended that not only the French courts had given Berezovski imprisonment instead of death but also the French press had sided with the Pole rather than Alexander. This experience forever shattered his views of France and saw in the reaction his visit had received why his father had despised the French.\n\nIn 1868, he held discussions with the Prussians, intending to counter a possible Austrian alliance with Napoleon III by Franz Joseph. If German forces were, for any reason, bogged down in the west, then Prussia's eastern and southern flanks would have been highly vulnerable. With his usual skill, Bismarck moved carefully to sidestep the nightmare. The Russian government even went so far as to promise to send an army of 100,000 men against the Austrians if Austria joined France in a war against Prussia. Whilst at Ems in the crucial summer of 1870 Wilhelm I and Bismarck had meetings with Tsar Alexander, also present in the spa town Alexander, though not naturally pro-German, became very comfortable with Prussian suggestions.\n\nBismarck also had talks at Ems with Alexander Mikhailovich Gorchakov, the Russian Foreign Minister, and was assured in mid-July, days before the French declaration of war, that the agreement of 1868 still held: in the event of Austrian mobilisation, the Russians confirmed that they would send 300,000 troops into Galicia. Bismarck now had all he wanted: a counter to Austria and the assurance of a one-front war.\n\nBismarck then made Benedetti's earlier draft public to \"The Times\" in London that demanded Belgium and Luxembourg as the price for remaining neutral during the Austro-Prussian War. Sensitive to the threat of a major power controlling the strategically significant Low Countries and the English Channel coastline, the United Kingdom government in particular took a decidedly cool attitude to these French demands, and the British people were disturbed by this subversive attempt at going back on Napoleon III's word. Therefore, Britain as a nation did nothing to aid France. The Prime Minister, William Gladstone, expressed his thoughts on the matter to Queen Victoria by writing to her that \"Your majesty will, in common with the world, have been shocked and startled.\" Though it had enjoyed some time as the leading power of continental Europe, the French Empire found itself dangerously isolated.\n\nThe king of the Netherlands, William III, was under a personal union with Luxembourg that guaranteed its sovereignty. Napoleon III had taken note that the king had amassed certain personal debts that would make a sale of Luxembourg to France possible. However, Luxembourg lies astride one of the principal invasion routes an army would use to invade either France or Germany from the other. The city of Luxembourg's fortifications were considered \"the Gibraltar of the North\" and neither side could tolerate the other controlling such a strategic location.\n\nThe pressure on Bismarck to object not only came from his monarch William I, but from Chief of Staff of the Prussian army Helmuth von Moltke. Moltke had additional reason to object: he desired war with France, stating flatly, \"Nothing could be more welcome to us than to have now the war that we must have.\" Bismarck balked at such talk about war. He refused to actually engage France on the basis that he firmly believed that Prussia would gain a far more decisive advantage by merely opposing the sale and that Napoleon III could be thwarted due to his fear of war with Prussia.\n\nAssuming that Bismarck would not object, the French government was shocked to learn that instead Bismarck, Prussia and the North German Confederation were threatening war should the sale be completed. Napoleon III had let precious months peel away in trying to complete the transaction, allowing Bismarck time to rally support to Prussia's objection. To mediate the dispute, the United Kingdom hosted the London Conference (1867) attended by all European great powers. It confirmed Luxembourg's independence from the Netherlands and guaranteed its independence from all other powers. War appeared to have been averted, at the cost of thwarting French desires.\n\nThe Spanish throne had been vacant since the revolution of September 1868, and the Spanish offered the throne to the German prince Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, a Catholic as well as a distant cousin of King Wilhelm of Prussia. Leopold and Wilhelm I were both uninterested, but the wily Bismarck was acutely interested, as it was an opportunity to once again best Napoleon III. Bismarck persuaded Leopold's father to accept the offer for his nation, and it was accepted instead by Leopold himself in June 1870.\n\nOn 2 July 1870, \"Marshall Prim [who held power in Spain] announced in Madrid that the Spanish government had offered the crown of Spain to Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern.\"\n\nFearing that a Hohenzollern king in Prussia and another one in Spain would put France into a two-front situation, France this time was determined to stand up to the expansion of Prussian influence. Napoleon III at this time was suffering the most unbearable pain from his stones, and the Empress Eugénie was essentially charged with countering the designs of Prussia. She had a vital interest in the crisis as she was of Spanish blood and a member of the royal line. The secretary of foreign affairs, Duc Antoine de Gramont, was directed by the Empress to be the principal instrument by which France would press for war should Leopold ascend the throne. Gramont delivered a speech in front of the \"Chambre législative\", proclaiming that \"We shall know how to fulfill our duty without hesitation and without weakness.\" The fatal mistake would soon come as a result of Gramont's inexperience, for he counted on alliances that only existed in his mind.\n\n\"The French press immediately protested the prospect of a Hohenzollern on the Spanish throne, and on 6 July the new Foreign Minister, the Duc de Gramont [...] told the Chamber that France would not permit Prince Leopold to become King of Spain. [The French Premier Emile] Ollivier added that he had no doubt that Prussia would yield in the face of French firmness, but that 'if war be necessary, the government will not enter upon it without the consent of the Legislative Body.' Gramont's statement and Ollivier's mention of war were greeted with great enthusiasm by the deputies, and in the public galleries the ladies rose to their feet and waved their handkerchiefs as they joined in the wild applause. Next day the Paris press called for war with Prussia, and on 8 July their language was even more violent. The government instructed [Comte Vincente] Benedetti, the French ambassador to Prussia, to demand that King William should publicly refuse his consent to Prince Leopold's acceptance of the throne of Spain.\"\n\n\"On 11 July, Benedetti spoke to King William at the watering spa at Ems, and asked him to refuse his consent to Prince Leopold's candidature; Bismarck was on holiday at his estates in East Prussia. King William agreed to order Prince Leopold to withdraw. Ollivier announced the Prussian surrender in the Chamber on 12 July and hailed it as a French triumph and a Prussian humiliation. Bismarck thought the same and considered resigning as Prime Minister. Gramont and Ollivier did not conceal their regret that the Prussians had given in; and the deputies and most of the press were disappointed that that there was to be no war. [...] Louis Napoleon sensed the public regret that there would be no war. 'The country will be disappointed,' he cabled to Ollivier on 12 July; 'but what can we do?' He was in complete agreement with the decision which was taken by the Cabinet on the same day to ask for further guarantees from Prussia and to require King William to give an undertaking that he would never in the future allow Prince Leopold to accept the crown of Spain. When Benedetti confronted King William on the promenade at Ems on the afternoon of 13 July and asked him to give this undertaking, the King was annoyed, refused to do so, and walked away a little abruptly.\"\n\nFollowing this direct confrontation, which had bypassed diplomatic protocols, King Wilhelm then sent a message to Berlin reporting this event with the French ambassador, and Bismarck shrewdly edited it to make it \"like a red tag to the bull\" for the French government. The dispatch was edited as follows (with the words sent in bold):\nCount Benedetti spoke to me on the promenade, in order to demand from me, finally in a very importunate manner, that I should authorize him to telegraph at once that I bound myself for all future time never again to give my consent if the Hohenzollerns should renew their candidature. \"I refused at last somewhat sternly, as it is neither right nor possible to undertake engagements of this kind à tout jamais. Naturally I told him that I had as yet received no news, and as he was earlier informed about Paris and Madrid than myself, he could clearly see that my government once more had no hand in the matter. His Majesty has since received a letter from the Prince.\" His Majesty \"having told Count Benedetti that he was awaiting news from the Prince\", has decided \"with reference to the above demand, upon the representation of Count Eulenburg and myself\", not to receive Count Benedetti again, but only to let him be informed through an aide-de-camp that his Majesty \"had now received from the Prince confirmation of the news which Benedetti had already received from Paris, and\" had nothing further to say to the ambassador. \"His Majesty leaves it to your Excellency whether Benedetti's fresh demand and its rejection should not be at once communicated both to our ambassadors and to the press.\"\n\nThis dispatch made the encounter more heated than it really was. Known as the Ems Dispatch, it was released to the press. It was designed to give the French the impression that King Wilhelm I had insulted the French Count Benedetti, and to give the Prussian people the impression that the Count had insulted the King. It succeeded in both of its aims- Gramont called it \"a blow in the face of France\", and the members of the French legislative body spoke of taking \"immediate steps to safeguard the interests, the security, and the honor of France.\" On 19 July 1870 \"Le Sourd, the French Chargé d'Affaires, delivered Napoleon's declaration of war at the Foreign Office\" in Berlin. According to the secret treaties signed with Prussia and in response to popular opinion, Bavaria, Baden, and Württemberg mobilised their armies and joined the war against France.\n\nAt the outbreak of the war, European public opinion heavily favored the Germans. For example, many Italians attempted to sign up as volunteers at the Prussian embassy in Florence, and a Prussian diplomat visited Giuseppe Garibaldi in Caprera. After the fall of Napoleon III following the Battle of Sedan, Bismarck's demand for the return of Alsace caused a dramatic shift in that sentiment, which was best exemplified by the reaction of Garibaldi soon after the revolution in Paris, who told the \"Movimento\" of Genoa on 7 September 1870, \"Yesterday I said to you: war to the death to Bonaparte. Today I say to you: rescue the French Republic by every means.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7201530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7201530", "title": "Christian Festival Association", "text": "Christian Festival Association\n\nThe Christian Festival Association was formed in September 2006. The group consists of members representing major Christian music festivals held in the United States and Canada. Collectively, this group represents nearly a million attendees annually, whose events are held annually between April and October. The association's Executive Director is Julie Klinger and the organization is headquartered in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.\n\nThe members of the CFA include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13834267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13834267", "title": "Confederate settlements in British Honduras", "text": "Confederate settlements in British Honduras\n\nThe Confederate Settlements in British Honduras are a cultural and ethnic sub-group in Belize, formerly known as the colony of British Honduras. They are the descendants of Confederates who fled to British Honduras with their families during and after the American Civil War. \n\nAs the American Civil War erupted, British colonial leaders saw an opportunity to profit from the sale of arms and weapons to the Confederate States. Soon a profitable trade in arms to Americans boosted the colonial economy and British Honduras became sympathetic to the Confederate cause. The colonial governor and other officials were also interested in recruiting American Southerners who were knowledgeable in the cultivation of cotton and sugar. Confederate immigrants were offered substantial subsidies and tax breaks. General Robert E. Lee and former Mississippi Governor John J. McRae advised Southerners not to flee to Central America but many ignored their advice and attempted to establish a new plantation economy in the English speaking colony. Many Southerners who took the governor's offers of land at a reduced price were fugitives from the American government, and many had simply lost everything during the war. \n\nEvidence suggests that more Confederates fled to British Honduras than any other destination, in part because they could easily acclimate to the English-speaking colony. This is also the reason they have not maintained a distinct cultural identity like those who went to places like Brazil. In many cases the Confederates attempted to cultivate cotton, but the inhospitable climate and ravenous insects stifled the effort. Well-known Confederates who went to British Honduras included Colin J. McRae (former Confederate Financial Agent in Europe) and Joseph Benjamin (brother of Confederate Secretary of War Judah P. Benjamin). \n\nHistorian and author Donald C. Simmons, Jr. published a book in 2001 entitled \"Confederate Settlements in British Honduras\" about this episode in American and British Honduran history.\n\n"}
{"id": "8851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8851", "title": "December 14", "text": "December 14\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2372739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2372739", "title": "Descent from the Cross", "text": "Descent from the Cross\n\nThe Descent from the Cross (, \"Apokathelosis\"), or Deposition of Christ, is the scene, as depicted in art, from the Gospels' accounts of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus taking Christ down from the cross after his crucifixion (). In Byzantine art the topic became popular in the 9th century, and in the West from the 10th century. The Descent from the Cross is the 13th Station of the Cross.\n\nOther figures not mentioned in the Gospels who are often included in depictions of this subject include St. John the Evangelist, who is sometimes depicted supporting a fainting Mary (as in the work below by Rogier van der Weyden), and Mary Magdalene. The Gospels mention an undefined number of women as watching the crucifixion, including the Three Marys, (Mary Salome being mentioned in ), and also that the Virgin Mary and Mary Magdalene saw the burial (). These and further women and unnamed male helpers are often shown.\n\nEven in early depictions the details and posing of the composition, and especially the position of Christ's body, are varied. The scene was usually included in medieval cycles of the Life or the Passion of Christ, between the Crucifixion and the \"Entombment of Christ\". The \"Lamentation of Christ\", or \"Pietà\", showing the body of Christ held by Mary, may intervene between these two, and is common as an individual image, especially in sculpture. The \"Bearing of the body\", showing Christ's body being carried to his tomb, and the \"Anointing of Christ's body\", showing the body laid flat on the top of the tomb or a similarly-shaped \"anointing-stone\" are other scenes that may be shown. This last is especially important in Orthodox art, where it is shown on the Epitaphios.\n\nWith the Renaissance the subject became popular for altarpieces, partly because of the challenges of the composition, and the suitability of its vertical shape. The Mannerist version of Rosso Fiorentino is usually regarded as his most important work, and Pontormo's altarpiece is perhaps his most ambitious work. The subject was painted several times by both Rubens and Rembrandt, who repeated one of his paintings (now in Munich) in a large print, his only one to be mainly engraved, as well as making two other etchings of the subject.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21116727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21116727", "title": "Dual City Sessions", "text": "Dual City Sessions\n\nDual City Sessions was conceived in 2007 as a traveling exhibition featuring designers from two cities, and has been showcased at DesignTide Tokyo, Singapore Design Festival, DMY Berlin Festival, Shanghai Design Biennial and Alt Space Tokyo.\n\nThe exhibition presents itself as a platform for international collaboration and cross-pollination of diverse creative disciplines - to showcase efforts between two cities, bringing together emerging and innovative practitioners in the fields of art, fashion, music and design.\n\nConceived by art director Felix Ng of design by silnt, the exhibition has collaborated with Japanese design studio Artless and architect Shuzo Okabe.\n\nEach country’s team of artists will be working based on the themes of nature, architecture and other items symbolic of their country. Using only two elements in monochrome, the artworks are conceived, designed and constructed personally by each artist.\n\nThe participating Japanese and Singaporean artists – 28 in total – will each render their theories on two 8-metre-long original prints. When connected, the individual pieces become one artwork, inspired by and representative not only of Japanese beauty and culture but also of the connection between human and nature\n\n\n\nArt with Sound is a cross-disciplinary collaboration between designers and musicians from Japan and Singapore. The exhibition brings together the complexities of the two disciplines, both innate and compelling to each other. The exhibition was showcased at DMY International Design Festival (Berlin, Germany), Shanghai Design Biennial and Alt Space in Tokyo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2014804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014804", "title": "Edward Edwards (Royal Navy officer)", "text": "Edward Edwards (Royal Navy officer)\n\nAdmiral Edward Edwards (1742–1815) was a British naval officer best known as the captain of HMS \"Pandora\", the frigate which the Admiralty sent to the South Pacific in pursuit of the \"Bounty\" mutineers.\n\nThe fifth of six children, Edward Edwards was born in Water Newton, a village near Peterborough, to Richard Edwards of Water Newton and Mary Fuller of Caldicot. He was born in 1742 and christened in St Remegius' Church, Water Newton. He never married.\n\nOn 7 September 1759, age 17, he was commissioned as a lieutenant. To qualify for this commission he would have been required, in addition to passing a lieutenant’s exam, to produce evidence of at least six years of sea time. No documents have been located to date which would establish exactly when, and under whose patronage, he started his naval career. It is likely he first went to sea as a captain's servant when about 10 years old and subsequently completed at least part of the required sea time as a midshipman. A signature, 'Edwd Edwards’, inscribed on a document witnessing the Will of one Isaac Bishopbridge serving \"on Board His Majestys Ship of Warr the \"Devonshire\",\" suggests that Edwards may have sailed under Captain John Moore on HMS \"Devonshire\" in April 1756.\n\nHis naval career after he was commissioned included service in the following ships, before being appointed to \"Pandora\":\n\n\nHe spent the following six years on half-pay after the end of the American Revolutionary war; until 6 August 1790, when he was appointed to take command of the frigate \"Pandora\". He received new orders on 11 August to prepare his new command for a journey to \"remote parts\", on a mission in pursuit of the \"Bounty\" mutineers.\n\nWith the help of former \"Bounty\" midshipman Thomas Hayward - a Bligh loyalist recently returned to England from the South Pacific - Edwards succeeded in finding fourteen men (Bligh had stated that four of these were loyal but could not be accommodated on the over-full launch with the other loyal men; so Edwards found ten mutineers), but the \"Pandora\" foundered on the Great Barrier Reef on 29 August 1791 during the journey home from the South Pacific. Four of the ten mutineers and 31 of \"Pandora\"s crew died in the destruction of the ship. After an arduous open boat voyage from the wreck to Timor and on to Batavia (Jakarta), only 78 men of \"Pandora\"s original 134-strong crew eventually reached England, accompanied by six mutineers and four loyalists. For Hayward this was the second time in as many years that had he found himself in an open boat making for a safe haven in the Dutch East Indies.\n\nEdwards was court-martialed on 17 September 1792 for the loss of the \"Pandora\". Immediately prior to the proceedings, he submitted to the Admiralty his account of the events leading up to the sinking. All of his officers supported Edwards' contention that the frigate had been lost due to circumstances beyond anyone's control. \nThe court-martial was attended by William Dillon, then a midshipman, who later became a vice-admiral in the Royal Navy and described Edwards in his memoirs as a \"fine, venerable- looking officer. His appearance completely absorbed all my attention during the trial, and I felt an inward satisfaction at the result, after all the hardships and dangers he had overcome\".\n\nCaptain Edwards and his officers were exonerated and subsequently Edwards served for a few years as a 'regulating' captain (recruiting officer) in Argyll and Hull and then resigned himself to inactivity on the half pay list. However, he was promoted to vice-admiral in 1809 and eventually ended his career as Admiral of the White, titularly the third most senior officer in the Royal Navy. He died in his native place - Stamford, Lincolnshire - aged 73, in 1815. Edwards was buried in St Remigius Church in Water Newton, a village in Huntingdonshire.\n\nHis reputation and character were effectively blackened by members of the Heywood family, who were unable to forgive him for what they perceived as excessively harsh treatment of their son, \"Bounty\" midshipman Peter Heywood, who was tried and convicted as a mutineer and pardoned. Yet Edwards had staunch supporters among other officers who had served under his command and he was also remembered by his niece as a \"sweet old man\", often out on a walk in the country lanes around his native Water Newton and Uppingham where he owned several farms. According to an obituary in the \"Lincoln, Stamford & Rutland Mercury\" (21 April 1815), he suffered for the rest of his life from the effects of the hardships he endured during the open boat voyage to Timor after the loss of the \"Pandora\". This could be the reason the Admiralty never appointed him to a seagoing command after his court-martial in 1792.\n\nNotwithstanding his niece's fond memories, Edwards' conduct on the \"Pandora\" has been regarded in some circles as every bit as cruel as popular opinion claims that William Bligh was on the \"Bounty\". Edwards, as ordered, kept his captives in close confinement, as if they had already been convicted, in spite of the fact that four of them had been identified by Bligh as being innocent and were subsequently acquitted at the court martial in Portsmouth.\n\nEdwards was accused of being excessively callous when it came to the captives' well-being - for instance by refusing to let them use an old sail to prevent them from being sunburned on a sand cay, and also by collectively referring to, and treating them all as mutineers and pirates. Indeed, one of his officers, Lieutenant John Larkan (1746–1830), is alleged to have been \"brutal\" to the prisoners, which Edwards allegedly condoned.\n\nOne of Edwards' main detractors was Commodore Sir Thomas Pasley, uncle of convicted mutineer Peter Heywood, whose measured tone in one of his letters to Heywood leaves no doubt about his disapproval of 'that fellow' Edwards; he was especially critical of the prisoners' confinement in 'Pandora's Box'. Pasley omits to mention how he would have handled the situation had command been his. Presumably he might have occasionally let the prisoners out of their captivity location; thus, midshipmen Stewart and Heywood might have been allowed to spend some time walking the quarterdeck, as Peter Heywood was permitted to do after his transhipment to HMS \"Gorgon\" in Cape Town during the last stage of his voyage home. Much was made of this by Heywood’s friends and defenders during his court martial, as if to underscore their plea that Edwards' conduct towards the prisoners had been excessively harsh and that Heywood had already suffered disproportionately and therefore had, in fact, already been punished.\n\nMost damningly, Edwards is often accused of excessive callousness towards the prisoners by keeping all of them locked up in the prison cell after the frigate had run aground. Moreover, besides the fact that three prisoners were immediately ordered out of the cell to help the crew man the pumps; while several hours later, after the decision had been made to abandon ship because she could not be saved, it is not certain that Edwards gave orders to release the remaining prisoners. Some saved themselves only because Joseph Hodges, the armourer's mate, knocked off the prisoners irons, but he was not able to complete the job because the ship sank very quickly.\n\nEven though six of the captives were found guilty of mutiny, only three of them -Millward, Burkitt and Ellison- were eventually executed; William Muspratt was acquitted on a legal technicality and the remaining two, Peter Heywood and James Morrison were subsequently pardoned by the King.\n\nEdwards' search for the mutiny ringleaders ultimately proved fruitless, but his voyages might have provided clues to the fate of one of the 18th century's greatest mysteries, the fate of the Lapérouse expedition. When passing Vanikoro, Santa Cruz Islands in the Pacific Ocean on 13 August 1791, smoke signals were observed rising from the island. However Edwards, who was only interested in prisoners, reasoned that mutineers fearful of discovery would not be advertising their whereabouts, so he ignored the smoke and sailed on. Sven Wahlroos, in his 1989 book, \"Mutiny and Romance in the South Seas\", suggests that the smoke signals were almost certainly a distress message sent by survivors of the Lapérouse expedition, which later evidence indicated were still alive on Vanikoro at that time; three years after the \"Boussole\" and \"Astrolabe\" had foundered in 1788.\n\nEdwards is said to have retired to Cornwall; according to a story linking him to the 'Pandora Inn' along Restronguet Creek near Mylor, which he is alleged to have owned and renamed after retiring from the Navy. However, there is no documentary evidence to support this claim. Rather, together with a story about a figurehead adorning the Inn's stairwell, said to be based on an 18th-century original from the \"Pandora\"; this claim can be confidently refuted and relegated to the realm of creative copy-writing to advertise the inn, which according to cadastral records was called 'The Passage House' until 1851, following the death of Alexander Luben, tenant and Restronguet Passage boatman from 1823 until his death in 1848.\n"}
{"id": "10741712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10741712", "title": "Essence Music Festival", "text": "Essence Music Festival\n\nThe Essence Festival, known as \"the party with a purpose\", is an annual music festival which started in 1995 as a one-time event to celebrate the 25th anniversary of \"Essence\", a magazine aimed primarily towards African-American women. It is the largest event celebrating African-American culture and music in the United States. Locally referred to as the Essence Fest, it has been held in New Orleans, Louisiana since 1994 except for 2006, when it was held in Houston, Texas due to Hurricane Katrina's effect on New Orleans. It was also held in Durban, South Africa in 2016. It features artists simultaneously performing on a main stage as well as four standing-room only superlounge stages.\n\nIn 2008, for the first time since its 1995 inception, the festival was not produced by the original producer team. Instead, Essence Communications, owner of the festival and the \"Essence\" magazine, contracted Rehage Entertainment Inc. A new main stage facelift was designed by production designer Stefan Beese. \n\nStarting 2013, Solomon Group became the Producer of Essence Festival.\n\nIn 2013, MSNBC broadcast live from the Essence Festival. MSNBC returned for the 2014 festival.\n\nVenue: Reliant Stadium in Houston, Texas\n\nAll Star Tribute To Patti LaBelle A celebration of Patti LaBelle featuring original LaBelle members Sarah Dash and Nona Hendryx - \nKanye West - Chris Brown - Rihanna - J. Holiday - Peabo Bryson - Angie Stone - Mint Condition - Grandmaster Flash - Terence Blanchard - Big Sam's Funky Nation - Rebirth Brass Band - , Ledisi, Chrisette Michele, Ruby Amanfu and more - Jill Scott - LL Cool J - Musiq - Lyfe Jennings - Solange - Irvin Mayfield and the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra - Marva Wright - Cupid - Karina - Bamboula - Kermit Ruffins' tribute to Louis Armstrong - Maze featuring Frankie Beverly - Mary J. Blige - Chris Rock - Keyshia Cole - Morris Day & The Time - Chrisette Michele - Estelle - Raheem DeVaughn - Gil Scott-Heron - Irma Thomas - Preservation Hall Jazz Band's Gospel Revival - Nicholas Payton - Christian Scott\n\nBeyoncé - John Legend - Ne-Yo - Salt N Pepa - Eric Benet - Sharon Jones & The Dap-Kings - Solange - Sierra Leone Refugee All Stars - Keri Hilson - Marva Wright - Big Sam’s Funky Nation - Preservation Hall Jazz Band Revue - Dwele - Maxwell - Anita Baker - Robin Thicke - Charlie Wilson - Jazmine Sullivan - Ledisi - Janelle Monáe - Zap Mama - Irvin Mayfield - Little Freddie King - Maze featuring Frankie Beverly - Lionel Richie - Al Green - Teena Marie - En Vogue - Raphael Saadiq - Lalah Hathaway - Melanie Fiona - Ryan Leslie - Blind Boys of Alabama - The Knux - Trombone Shorty and Orleans Ave All Stars - Rebirth Brass Band - Laura Izibor\n\nJanet Jackson - Charlie Wilson - Raphael Saadiq - Monica - Chrisette Michele - Irma Thomas - Arrested Development - Big Sam's Funky Nation - Mary Mary - Irvin Mayfield & The NOJO - WAR - Little Freddie King - Alicia Keys - Gladys Knight - LL Cool J - Keri Hilson - Laura Izibor - Sam & Ruby - De La Soul - Kermit Ruffins & The BBQ Swingers - Mint Condition - Joe - Rebirth Brass Band - Earth Wind & Fire - Mary J. Blige - Jill Scott - Trey Songz - Estelle - Hot 8 Brass Band - Lalah Hathaway - Ivan Neville's Dumpstaphunk - Ruben Studdard - Melanie Fiona - PJ Morton Band - Soul Rebels Brass Band\n\nUsher - Charlie Wilson - Jennifer Hudson - Fantasia - Boyz II Men - Macy Gray - Dwele - Alexander O’Neal and Cherrelle - Mint Condition - Soul Rebels Brass Band - Tank - Miguel - Mavis Staples - Irma Thomas - Kanye West - Jill Scott - Chaka Khan - El Debarge - Eric Benet - Morris Day & The Time - Stephanie Mills - Naughty by Nature - To Be Continued Brass Band - Mary J. Blige - New Edition - Trey Songz - Loose Ends - Hal Linton - George Clinton & Parliament Funkadelic - Rebirth Brass Band - Kelly Price - Vanessa Bell Armstrong - - Brian Courtney Wilson - MC Lyte - Doug E. Fresh - Hot 8 Brass Band\n\nDiggy Simmons - OMG Girlz - Coco Jones - Square Off - Charlie Wilson - D'Angelo - Trey Songz - Keyshia Cole - The Pointer Sisters - Marsha Ambrosious - Kindred & The Family Soul - Vivian Green - Stephanie Mills - Gary Clark Jr. - Rebirth Brass Band - SWV - Goapele - Mary J. Blige - Kevin Hart - Ledisi - Mary Mary - Tank - Eric Roberson - Teedra Moses - The Stylistics - Robert Glasper - Dru Hill - Big Sam's Funky Nation - Chaka Khan - Aretha Franklin - Anthony Hamilton - Fantasia - Kirk Franklin - Syleena Johnson - Faith Evans - KeKe Wyatt - Nicci Gilbert - Melanie Fiona - Carl Thomas - Alex Boyd - Eve - Estelle - Luke James - Raheem DeVaughn - Bridget Kelly\n\nBeyoncé - Brandy - Maxwell - New Edition - Charlie Wilson - Keyshia Cole - St Beauty - Daley - LL Cool J - Malu Music - Maya Azucena - PJ Morton - Roman GianArthur - TGT - Trey Songz - Alice Smith - Bridget Kelly - Deep Cotton - Emeli Sandé - F. Stokes - Janelle Monáe - Jill Scott - Kourtney Heart - Leela James - Luke James - Mia Borders - Shamarr Allen and the Underdawgs - Simphiwe Dana - Anthony David - Big Daddy Kane - Bilal - Blackstreet - Chrisette Michelle - Faith Evans - Jody Watley - Les Nubians - Marsha Ambrosious - Mint Condition - Rachelle Ferrell - Tamia - Biz Markie - Brass-A-Holics - Carla Ferrell - Cupid - Doug E. Fresh - Gina Brown - Greta Prince - Mike Swift - Solange - Stooges Brass Band - Nephew Tommy - Tweet - Water Seed\n\nPrince - Nas - Janelle Monáe - Nile Rodgers - Mary J. Blige - Jill Scott - The Roots - Ledisi - Tank - Lionel Richie - Charlie Wilson - Erykah Badu - Jazmine Sullivan - Jesse Boykins III - Tevin Campbell - K. Michelle - Tamar Braxton - Trey Songz - 112 - Alice Smith - August Alsina - Big Sam's Funky Nation - Daley - Day26 - Doug E. Fresh - Elle Varner - Estelle - George Tandy, Jr. - Greta Prince - Jagged Edge - Kelly Prince - Kevin Ross - King - Kourtney Heart - Leela James - Liv Warfield - Marsha Ambrosius - Michelle Williams - Naughty by Nature - Raheem DeVaughn - Robert Glasper - Sebastian Mikael - Sevyn Streeter - Stephanie Mills - SWV - Tevin Campbell - The Original Pinettes Brass Band\n\nUsher - Missy Elliot - Kendrick Lamar - Mary J. Blige - Kevin Hart - Erykah Badu - Common - Maze Feat. Frankie Beverly, Charlie Wilson, India.Arie, Kem - Trey Songz - Adrian Marcel - AverySunshine - Lecrae - Doug E. Fresh - Grapple - Kelly Price - Kindred Te Family Soul - Luenell - Nico & Vinz - Slick Rick - Beenie Man & The Zagga Zow Band - Bilal - Elle Varner - Esperanza Spalding - Emily’s D+Evolution - Kool Moe Dee - Mali Music - Mystical - Raheem DeVaughn - Sevyn Streeter - Tank - The Bangas - Tonya Boyd-Cannon - Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue - Floetry - Andra Day - Dee-1 - Dumpstaphunk - Eric Roberson - Jeff Bradshaw - Lianne La Havas - Mase - Robert Glasper - SZA - Tendra Moses - Tweet\n\n\"Main Stage\"<br>\nFriday: Estelle, Faith Evans, Tyrese, Kenny \"Babyface\" Edmonds, New Edition, Maxwell<br>\nSaturday: Jeremih, Common, Charlie Wilson, Mariah Carey<br>\nSunday: Andra Day, Ciara, Puff Daddy & The Family, Kendrick Lamar\n\n\"Superlounges\"<br>\nFriday: Digable Planets, Daley, Eric Bellinger, Lion Babe, The Internet, Tweet, Estelle, Mali Music, V. Bozeman, Kelly Price, Zakes Bantwini, Sky Wanda<br>\nSaturday: Doug E. Fresh, Tink, Jidenna, Preservation Hall Jazz Band, St. Beauty, Lalah Hathaway<br>Judith Hill<br>Wizkid, Lady Leshurr<br>\nSunday: MC Lyte, Dej Loaf, Cyril Neville, Leon Bridges, Kehlani, New Breed Brass Band, Robert Glasper, BJ the Chicago Kid, The Brand New Heavies, Little Simz\n\nDiana Ross - John Legend - Mary J. Blige - Chance the Rapper - Solange - Chaka Khan - Jill Scott - Master P - Trombone Shorty & Orleans Avenue - India.Arie - Monica - Jazmine Sullivan - Mystikal - Silkk the Shocker - Mia X - Rhonda Ross - Ari Lennox - BJ the Chicago Kid - Daley - Doug E. Fresh - Elle Varner - Emily Estefan - Gallant - Jhené Aiko - June's Diary - Kelly Price - Lalah Hathaway - Leela James - Lizzo - Michel'le - Moses Sumney - PJ - PJ Morton - Remy Ma - Ro James - Shaggy - Sir the Baptist - Teyana Taylor - The Jones Girls featuring Shirley Jones - Tweet - Yuna - Heels over Head (SA) - Rafiya - DAVE Everyseason - Lydia Caesar - Napoleon da Great - Cymphonique Miller - Yazz - Xscape\n\n\"Main Stage\"<br>\nFriday: Doug E. Fresh , Ledisi, Miguel, Snoop Dogg, The Roots \nSaturday: Doug E. Fresh , Xscape, Queen Latifah , Mary J. Blige<br>\nSunday: Doug E. Fresh , Teddy Riley , Fantasia, Janet Jackson\n\n\"Superlounges\"<br>\nFriday: Lloyd, H.E.R., Damien Escobar, Kelly Price, The Internet, Tweet, Estelle, Mali Music, V. Bozeman, Kelly Price, Zakes Bantwini, Sky Wanda<br>\nSaturday: Doug E. Fresh, Tink, Jidenna, Preservation Hall Jazz Band, St. Beauty, Lalah Hathaway<br>Judith Hill<br>Wizkid, Lady Leshurr<br>\nSunday: MC Lyte, Dej Loaf, Cyril Neville, Leon Bridges, Kehlani, New Breed Brass Band, Robert Glasper, BJ the Chicago Kid, The Brand New Heavies, Little Simz\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59186713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59186713", "title": "Expedition 59", "text": "Expedition 59\n\nExpedtion 59 is the 59th Expedition to the International Space Station, scheduled to start on 8 July 2019 with the undocking of the Soyuz MS-11 spacecraft. The Expedition will initially consist of a Russian Commander, Aleksey Ovchinin, and two American Flight Engineers, Nick Hague and Christina Hammock who all transferred from Expedition 58. The crew will then be joined by the crew of Soyuz MS-13, scheduled to launch in July 2019 carrying a Russian Commander, and an American and Italian Flight Engineer.\n"}
{"id": "19937773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19937773", "title": "Fire of Skopje 1689", "text": "Fire of Skopje 1689\n\nThe fire of Skopje started on 26 October 1689 and lasted for two days, burning much of the city; only some stone-built structures, such as the fortress and some churches and mosques, were relatively undamaged. The fire had a disastrous effect on the city: its population declined from around 60,000 to around 10,000, and it lost its regional importance as a trading centre.\n\nIn 1689 the Austrian General Enea Silvio Piccolomini led an army to capture Kosovo, Bosnia and Macedonia from the Ottoman Empire. \n\nIn the same time, successful development of Skopje was suddenly interrupted in 1689 by the entry of the Austrian army into Macedonia. During the Austrian-Turkish war (1683-1699), Austrian troops under the command of General Piccolomini penetrated in an unstoppable advance far into the interior of European Turkey and, after taking the fortress of Kačanik, descended into the Skopje plain. On October 25, 1689, they took Skopje without much struggle, for the Turkish army and the inhabitants had left the town. By order of General Piccolomini, Skopje was set on fire, and the conflagration lasted two days (Oct. 26 and 27); great many houses and shops were destroyed, but the worst damage was in the Jewish quarter of the town, where almost all the dwelling-houses, two synagogues and the Jewish school were destroyed.\n\nDuring the offensive, the city of Skopje, present-day capital of the Republic of Macedonia, General Piccolomini contracted cholera , after which he died from it.\n\nSome accounts of these events state that Piccolomini razed Skopje due to an inability of his forces to occupy and govern a city so far from his headquarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "47344198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47344198", "title": "Fresh Island Festival", "text": "Fresh Island Festival\n\nFresh Island Festival is a hip hop music festival held at Zrće beach near the city of Novalja in Croatia. Founded in 2012 and usually held in mid-July the festival focuses primarily on hip hop culture along with r&b and grime. The festival takes place in 3 different venues on Zrće beach: Aquarius, Papaya and Kalypso. It also offers daily boat parties and pool parties, excursions and extreme and water sports. Since 2012 Fresh Island became the biggest hip-hop & urban beach festival in Europe featuring musicians, DJs and MCs from all over the world.\n\nIn 2017 the festival will be held between 11–13 July. \n\nThe list of the previous performers include:\n\n2012: Nas, Eve, DJ Muggs, DJ Revolution, DJ Statik Selektah, DJ Shortee Blitz\n\n2013: Snoop Dogg, Iggy Azalea, A$AP Rocky, KRS-One DJ Tony Touch, Statik Selektah\n\n2014: Rick Ross, Method Man & Redman, Mobb Deep\n\n2015: Action Bronson, Joey Bada$$, Pusha T, Danny Brown, Migos, Statik Selektah, JME, Stormzy, Tropkillaz\n\n2016: Wiz Khalifa, Ty Dolla Sign, DJ Premier, Tim Westwood, Chris Brown, Kehlani, Shakka, Logan Sama\n\n\nFresh Island Festival 2016 Line Up\n\n"}
{"id": "17739455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17739455", "title": "Frida (opera)", "text": "Frida (opera)\n\nFrida is a 1991 opera based on the life of Mexican painter Frida Kahlo with music by Robert Xavier Rodriguez, book by Hilary Blecher, lyrics and monologues by Migdalia Cruz, conceived by Hilary Blecher. \n\nIt was commissioned by the American Music Theater Festival (now Prince Music Theater) and premiered in Philadelphia in 1991, starring Helen Schneider as Frida. It was revised in 1993. It has subsequently been produced at American Repertory Theater (Boston), the Brooklyn Academy of Music, City Summer Opera (San Francisco), the Houston Grand Opera, the Vienna Schauspielhaus, in Recklinghausen and Nordhausen (Germany), and by the Society for New Music (Syracuse, New York). In 2007, the opera was produced at the Festival de Mayo in Guadalajara in a Spanish translation by Josefina Garcia. Original Cast: Helen Schneider (Frida Kahlo); Marc Krause (Diego Rivera); Karen Hale (Mother/Lupe Rivera/Mrs. Rockefeller/Mrs. Trotsky); Alba Quezada (Cristina/Mrs. Ford); David Toney (Mr. Kahlo/Mr. Rockefeller/A. Cachucha/Edward G. Robinson/Petate Vendor)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54715468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54715468", "title": "Grateville Dead Fest", "text": "Grateville Dead Fest\n\nGrateville Dead Fest is an outdoor music and arts festival in Louisville, Kentucky catering to fans of The Grateful Dead band on the Brown Forman Amphitheater overlooking the scenic Ohio River and boat docks. The festival typically includes two-to three days of jam band music by regional artists from the Kentucky, Tennessee and Ohio areas. The venue includes food and beverage vendors, folk art vendors, local breweries and typically supports some cause each year to which a portion of the proceeds are donated. The event also supports the Waterfront Development Corporation and City of Louisville.\n\nIn 2015 local Louisville entrepreneur and producer Dennie Humphrey and co-founder Ashley Angel produced the very first Grateville Dead Tribute in honor of Jerry Garcia and the Grateful Dead on Garcia’s birthday August 1. After leaving Abbey Road on the River several weeks before when Ashley said, \"Why isn't there a Grateful Dead on the River?\" prompting Humphrey, who also co-founded the GonzoFest music festival at Waterfront Park and had experience putting the events together.\n\nIncluding talents like Tyrone Cotton, Screamin’ John, Hot Iron Skillet, Phiasco and the Louisville Merry Pranksters, the event was an unexpected success, drawing a large crowd of over 2,000 people to the Brown Forman Amphitheater in Louisville’s scenic Waterfront Park despite a very small advertising campaign and little planning. From conception to opening day was only thirty days and the organizers didn't expect a large turnout. The event gained local notability and the founders vowed a second year with more festivity.\n\nThe event returned in 2016 and again in 2017, with the addition of all-night camping.\n"}
{"id": "1323035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323035", "title": "Griefer", "text": "Griefer\n\nA griefer or bad faith player is a player in a multiplayer video game who deliberately irritates and harasses other players within the game (trolling), using aspects of the game in unintended ways. A griefer derives pleasure primarily or exclusively from the act of annoying other users, and as such is a particular nuisance in online gaming communities, since griefers often cannot be deterred by penalties related to in-game goals. This creates a strong division between griefing and cheating, since cheating is done with intent of winning the game and thus is discouraged by in-game penalties.\n\nThe term was applied to online, multiplayer video games by the year 2000 or earlier, as illustrated by postings to the rec.games.computer.ultima.online USENET group. The player is said to cause \"grief\" in the sense of \"giving someone grief\".\n\nThe term \"griefing\" dates to the late 1990s, when it was used to describe the willfully antisocial behaviors seen in early massively multiplayer online games like \"Ultima Online\" and first-person shooters such as \"Counter-Strike\". But even before it had a name, griefer-like behavior was familiar in the virtual worlds of text-based Multi-User Domains (MUDs), where joyriding invaders visited \"virtual rape\" and similar offenses on the local populace. Julian Dibbell's 1993 article \"A Rape in Cyberspace\" analyzed the griefing events in a particular MUD, LambdaMOO, and the staff's response.\n\nIn the culture of massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG) in Taiwan, such as \"Lineage\", griefers are known as \"white-eyed\"—a metaphor meaning that their eyes have no pupils and so they look without seeing. Behaviors other than griefing which can cause players to be stigmatized as \"white-eyed\" include cursing, cheating, stealing, and unreasonable or team killing.\n\nMethods of griefing differ from game to game. What might be considered griefing in one area of a game may even be an intended function or mechanic in another area. Common methods may include but are not limited to:\n\n\nThe term is sometimes applied more generally to mean a person who uses the internet to cause distress to others as a prank, or to intentionally inflict harm, as when it was used to describe an incident in March 2008, when malicious users posted seizure-inducing animations on epilepsy forums.\n\nMany subscription-based games actively oppose griefers, since their behavior can drive away business. It is common for developers to release server-side upgrades and patches to annul griefing methods. Many online games employ gamemasters that reprimand offenders. Some use a crowdsourcing approach, where players can report griefing. Malicious players are then red-flagged, and are then dealt with at a gamemaster's discretion. As many as 25% of customer support calls to companies operating online games deal specifically with griefing.\n\nBlizzard Entertainment has enacted software components to combat griefing. To prevent non-consensual attacks between players, some games such as \"Ultima Online\" have created separate realms for those who wish to be able to attack anyone at any time, and for those who do not. Others implemented separate servers.\n\nWhen \"EverQuest\" was released, Sony included a PvP switch where people could fight each other only if they had enabled that option. This was done in order to prevent the player-killing that was driving people away from \"Ultima Online\", which at that time had no protection on any of its servers.\n\n\"Second Life\" bans players for harassment (defined as being rude or threatening, making unwelcome sexual advances, or performing activities likely to annoy or alarm somebody) and assault (shooting, pushing, or shoving in a safe area, or creating scripted objects that target another user and hinder their enjoyment of the game) in its community standards. Sanctions include warnings, suspension from \"Second Life\", or being banned altogether.\n\nSpace sims like \"Eve Online\" and \"\" have incorporated activities typically considered griefing as part of the gameplay mechanism. Corporate spying, theft, scams, gate-camping, and PvP on non-PvP players are all part of their gaming experience.\n\nShooters such as \"\" have implemented peer review systems, where if a player is reported too many times, multiple higher ranked players get to review the Suspect and determine if the reports are valid, and apply a temporary ban to the players account if necessary. The Suspect's name is omitted during the replay, as well as those of the other 9 players in the game. In October 2016, Valve implemented a change that will permanent ban a player if he/she receives two penalties for griefing.\n\nMany \"Minecraft\" servers have rules against griefing. In \"Minecraft\" freebuild servers, griefing is often the destruction of another player's build, and in other servers the definition ranges, but almost all servers recognize harassment as griefing. Most servers use temporary bans for minor and/or first time incidents, and indefinite bans from the server for more serious and/or repeat offences.\n\nIn the \"South Park\" episode \"Make Love, Not Warcraft\", the children attempt to vanquish a griefer in \"World of Warcraft\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45474561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45474561", "title": "Hammersonic Festival", "text": "Hammersonic Festival\n\nHammersonic Festival is a heavy metal festival held annually at Jakarta in Indonesia. It is the biggest festival in South East Asia.\n\nNotable bands that have performed in Hammersonic are Tarja, Bullet For My Valentine, Hatebreed, Morbid Angel, Fleshgod Apocalypse, Belphegor Cradle Of Filth, Lamb of God , As I Lay Dying, Epica, Cannibal Corpse, Obituary, Kreator, Destruction, Dying Fetus, Nile, Lock up, Suffocation, Dirty Rotten Imbeciles, Hour of Penance, Chthonic (band), Angra, Vader, Gorgoroth, Silent Knight, Lord, Psycroptic, Megadeth, Entombed (band), Abbath, whitechapel (band), krisiun, Northlane,and Origin.\n"}
{"id": "44660531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44660531", "title": "Hotesur scandal", "text": "Hotesur scandal\n\nThe Hotesur scandal took place in Argentina in 2014. Hotesur is a firm that administers the hotels in El Calafate that belong to Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and her family. Initially, it was suspected of not paying taxes, but the investigation headed by judge Claudio Bonadio led to suspicions about a possible case of money laundering, involving the businessman Lázaro Báez as well. As a result, the government attempts to force an impeachment of Bonadio.\n\nThe scandal began with an investigation by \"Periodismo para todos\", a TV program of investigative journalism led by Jorge Lanata, aired on November 9, 2014. Lanata revealed that Hotesur, a firm owned by the president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner to manage her hotels in Alto Calafate, had not paid taxes to the IGJ, nor filed the required financial statements for years. The program checked as well the registered headquarters of Hotesur, which appeared to be empty. Deputy Margarita Stolbizer made a formal denouncement to the judiciary the following day about the information revealed in the program. She also pointed that Valle Mitre S.A., a firm owned by Lázaro Báez, rented more than 1,100 rooms per month at Alto Calafate, but such rooms stayed unoccupied. Báez has earned hundreds of millions with infrastructure contracts signed with the Kirchners, and is suspected of money laundering at \"The Route of the K-Money\" scandal. Stolbizer also accused Cristina Fernández of malfeasance in office.\n\nThe judge Claudio Bonadio ordered a search and seizure at the registered headquarters on November 20, and confirmed that the place was abandoned. Hotesur confirmed later that they had not filed statements, but did not mention the unoccupied rentals. Although Hotesur is not state-owned, their message was delivered by both media aligned with the government (such as Telam and Fútbol para todos) and the official Facebook and Twitter accounts of the presidency of the nation.\n\nThe main strategy of the government against the scandal was to start a big number of collateral scandals, expecting that the public interest in the original case would decrease, or that it would turn into a public perception of the whole political world as corrupt, instead of just the specific politicians involved in cases of corruption. \n\nThe Council of Magistrates of the Nation reduced Bonadio's wages by 30%, with the vote of the supporters of the government within the council. He was sanctioned because of delays in two old cases. Bonadio may be impeached if he gets three sanctions. The opposing votes considered that the Council had not ruled over the delays in three years, and that the case against Bonadio had expired because of the statute of limitations.\n\nThe lawyer Santiago Mansilla accused Margarita Stolbizer of illicit enrichment, a few days after she denounced the case. The case was received by judge Marcelo Martínez de Giorgi, and the prosecutor Ramiro González asked for her oath to the AFIP to decide if he should proceed with the case.\n\nSilvina Martínez, a witness in the case, has also been denounced of several crimes by the deputy Andrea García.\n\nThe AFIP denounced the bank HSBC for 4040 secret illegal Swiss accounts, as part of the strategy to generate collateral scandals.\n\nThe president accused Claudio Bonadio of a similar fault, claiming that he has a stake in a company that had not filed statements in due time either. Luis D'Elia proposed to place Bonadio's head on a pike, in front of the courthouse. Deputy Carlos Kunkel and the chief of cabinet Jorge Capitanich said that Bonadio was attempting a coup d'état; such conspiracy theories are usual in the Kirchnerite speech. \n\nLuis María Cabral, president of a national judges association, supported Bonadio.\n\nLuis Barrionuevo, head of the gastronomic union, announced that he would donate money to Bonadio to compensate the reduction of 30% of his wages. He mentioned that there are employees in Alto Calafate that belong to his union, who may testify in the case if needed. He mentioned that the hotels were reported to be fully occupied even during the Patagonian crisis with volcanic ash.\n"}
{"id": "239052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239052", "title": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2003", "text": "Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2003\n\nThe Junior Eurovision Song Contest 2003 was the first Eurovision Song Contest for young singers aged eight to fifteen. It was held on 15 November 2003, in Copenhagen, Denmark. With Camilla Ottesen and Remee as the presenters, the contest was won by the then eleven-year-old Dino Jelušić, who represented Croatia with his song \"Ti si moja prva ljubav\" (You are my first love) while second and third place went to Spain and the United Kingdom respectively. The next time that a country would win on its first attempt was Italy in 2014.\n\nIt was the first Eurovision contest to be broadcast in the 16:9 widescreen format. It was also the first Eurovision Song Contest where a DVD of the contest would be released. It was decided that the country that won the contest would not necessarily host the next contest, in order to reduce the pressure on the contestants.\n\nThe origins of the contest date back to 2000 when Danmarks Radio held a song contest for Danish children that year and the following year. The idea was extended to a Scandinavian song festival in 2002, MGP Nordic, with Denmark, Norway and Sweden as participants. The EBU picked up the idea for a song contest featuring children and opened the competition to all EBU member broadcasters making it a pan-European event. The working title of the programme was \"Eurovision Song Contest for Children\", branded with the name of the EBU's already popular song competition, the Eurovision Song Contest. Denmark was asked to host the first programme after their experience with their own contests and the MGP Nordic.\n\nForum Copenhagen () is a large multi-purpose, rentable indoor arena located in Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark. It hosts a large variety of concerts, markets, exhibitions and other events. The venue can hold up to 10,000 people depending on the event. The Forum operates as a convention center, concert hall and indoor arena.\n\nIt was opened in February 1926 to host a car exhibition and was last renovated in 1996–97. Over two storeys there is a combined exhibition floor area of 5,000 m² and a separate restaurant for up to 250 seated guests. The Metro station Forum is adjacent to the building. Forum Copenhagen was designed by Oscar Gundlach-Pedersen, and the lighting was from Poul Henningsen's brand new PH-lamp. In 1929 it held an architecture exhibition, which was one of the first presentations of functionalism in Denmark, namely the Housing and Building Exhibition in Forum. It was at this exhibition that Arne Jacobsen and Flemming Lassen exhibited their subscription to the cylindrical \"House of the Future\".\n\n16 countries competed in the first edition of the Junior Eurovision Song Contest. In an original press release for the contest, then entitled the \"Eurovision Song Contest for Children\", a draw was held to select 15 countries to take part in the inaugural contest, with Slovakian broadcaster Slovenská televízia (STV) and German broadcaster ARD being drawn to compete along with 13 other countries. These countries would eventually be replaced by entries from Poland, Cyprus and Belarus, in their first ever Eurovision event. The Finnish broadcaster Yleisradio (YLE) also expressed a debut in the first contest, but went on to just broadcast it instead.\n\nThe draw for the running order of the contest was held on 6 October, with Greece drawn to open the contest and the Netherlands drawn to close.\n\nThe rights to broadcast the contest were also acquired by broadcasters in Finland (YLE), Serbia and Montenegro (RTS/RTCG), Estonia (ETV), Germany (KI.KA), Australia (SBS) and Kosovo (RTK).\n\nThe halftime entertainment was provided by two acts from the UK. Busted performed \"Crashed the Wedding\" but Charlie Simpson was absent due to illness. However, the following day he was present for a radio interview in the UK where it was implied by both himself and the other band members, that this was, in fact, a lie. The real reason for his absence was that he hated Eurovision. The Sugababes performed \"Hole in the Head\". The opening number was performed by and Dance Faction.\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another:\n\n\nJunior Eurovision Song Contest: Copenhagen 2003, is a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and was released by Universal Music Group on November 2003. The album features all the songs from the 2003 contest. On the track list Cyprus was misspelt as \"Cypres\".\n\n"}
{"id": "574034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574034", "title": "List of ice hockey leagues", "text": "List of ice hockey leagues\n\nThis is a list of ice hockey leagues, both professional and amateur, from around the world; parentheses denote year of establishment and, where applicable, year of disestablishment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"AA\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"B\"\"\n\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"A\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"C\"\"\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"B\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"D\"\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: The Northeast-10 sponsors a championship for its members that play ice hockey, but the NCAA doesn't currently sponsor a national championship at Division II level.\"\n\n\"Note: there are also independent teams outside of the WHAC.\"\n\n\"Note: there are also many independent teams in all three ACHA divisions in addition to the many within the hockey conferences and leagues.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeagues for disabled hockey players\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(Leagues involve teams from both Europe and Asia) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDefunct Leagues\n\nEnglish Ice Hockey Association Women's Leagues\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36258669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36258669", "title": "Lists of deaths by year", "text": "Lists of deaths by year\n\nThis is a list of notable deaths, organized by year. New deaths articles are added to their respective month (e.g., Deaths in ), and then linked here.\n"}
{"id": "1921458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921458", "title": "Lotfi Raissi", "text": "Lotfi Raissi\n\nLotfi Raissi (, \"Luṭfī Rayissī\"; born April 4, 1974), was the first person charged in connection with the September 11, 2001, attacks. However, in 2003 a British court ruled that the charges against Raissi were without evidence, and that he had no association with the attacks. In April 2010 it was announced that he was eligible for compensation, the amount of which was as yet undecided.\n\nRaissi was born and grew up in Bab el Oued, a suburb of Algiers. In November 1996 he moved to Phoenix, Arizona, USA, to attend flight school, including a 1998 stint at Sawyer School of Aviation a month after Hani Hanjour quit.\n\nIn April 2000, when his student visa expired, he moved back to Algeria and then to London, with his wife Sonia (née Demolis), whom he had met in the United States.\n\nFrom June 11–18, 2001, Raissi had apparently visited Las Vegas, while Ziad Jarrah was in the city.\nOn his way home from the city, he was given a citation for speeding in Arizona.\n\nRaissi was living outside Colnbrook (near Heathrow) at the time of the attacks. He was arrested at 3 am on September 21, 2001, when he was taken from his house naked, along with his wife Sonia and his brother.\n\"The Times\" obtained a copy of the FBI's initial request for information about Raissi. In it, \"The Times\" asserts, the FBI requested that British authorities use discretion, in order not to tip him off that he was under suspicion.\n\nRaissi's brother and wife Sonia were released by British police four days after the arrests, although Sonia lost her job working with Air France and his brother's wife lost her job at Heathrow Airport as well.\nFrom there Raissi was detained for five months at Belmarsh Prison, under suspicion of training the pilots who flew the jet into the Pentagon. He was also charged with using a \"false identity\" having gone by the name \"Fabrice Vincent Algier\", and for conspiring to help Redouane Dahmani lie on his visa application.\n\nAfter a week of interrogation US officials, and British prosecutor James Lewis, made an extradition request; ironically, due to a lack of evidence that he was involved in the September 11 attacks, the only charge he could be held on was lying on his pilot's licence application by not revealing he had undergone knee surgery after a tennis injury, and a charge for shoplifting at a London airport dating to 1993. Raissi's attorney was Richard Egan\n\nBritish prosecutor Arvinder Sambei (who became a director of Amicus Legal Consultants, which is now Sambei, Bridger & Polaine) publicly announced that the FBI had discovered Raissi's name in Salem al-Hazmi's rental vehicle; that a raid on Raissi's home had turned up video evidence of him and Hani Hanjour celebrating together on his computer; that further telephone records confirmed their suspicions that he had trained four of the hijackers in an effort to help support terrorism against U.S. interests, that his pilot logbook was missing all data from March 2000 to June 2001, and stated that they might seek the death penalty.\nHowever once his trial began, they were unable to produce any such evidence. According to \"The Times\";\n\nOn February 12, 2002, Judge Timothy Workman allowed Raissi to post £10,000 bail and surrender his passport, after stating that there seemed to be no credibility to the US claims.\nHe was formally released from charges on April 21.\n\nIn September 2003, Raissi announced he was suing the FBI and the Department of Justice for $10 million over claims that his life had been ruined by his being branded a terrorist and that he was unable to find work.\n\nThe suit, carried by Richard Egan and Jules Carey of Tuckers Solicitors, alleges false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, malicious continuation of prosecution, abuse of process, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligence in infliction of emotional distress. Amnesty International's Paul Hoffman was one of the lawyers handling the case.\n\nRaissi launched a civil suit against the \"Mail on Sunday\" for printing false information about criminal charges he faced, and citing the fact that airlines will not hire him because of the accusations against him. He was awarded an undisclosed sum.\n\nOn February 22, 2007, Mr Raissi lost his case in the UK High Court to claim compensation for wrongful arrest and the 5 months he spent in Belmarsh. Judges ruled him ineligible on the grounds that he had been held as part of an extradition case rather than 'in the domestic criminal process'. He took his case to the Court of Appeal and the High Court ruling was overturned, Appeal Judges stating that evidence showed the CPS and the Police were responsible for \"serious defaults\".\n\nRaissi's case remains a contentious issue in Algeria, whose government refuses to sign an agreement with Britain about extraditing hijackers until Britain acknowledges that its treatment of Raissi was flawed. British authorities continue to insist that British police and prosecutors acted properly, and it was American authorities who were at fault for supplying them with bad intelligence.\n\nIn February 2008 the Court of Appeal rejected this position, 'completely exonerated' Raissi, and ordered British authorities to reconsider his entitlement to compensation, which had previously been rejected. It also found that the Crown Prosecution Service and the police had presented false evidence to the courts.\n\nHis application for permission to enforce the order of the Court of Appeal, and contempt of court proceedings against the Home Office, resulted in an announcement on 23 April 2010 by the Secretary of State for Justice Jack Straw that Raissi is eligible for up to £2m compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "703896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703896", "title": "MS St. Louis", "text": "MS St. Louis\n\nMS \"St. Louis\" was a German ocean liner. In 1939, she set off on a voyage in which her captain, Gustav Schröder, tried to find homes for over 900 Jewish refugees from Germany. They were denied entry to Cuba, the United States, and Canada. The refugees were finally accepted in various European countries, including Belgium, the Netherlands, the UK, and France. Historians have estimated that approximately a quarter of them died in death camps during World War II. The passengers' experience has been treated in film, opera, and fiction.\n\nBuilt by the Bremer Vulkan shipyards in Bremen for \"HAPAG\", better known in English as the Hamburg America Line, \"St. Louis\" was a diesel-powered ship (as opposed to a diesel-fired steamer) and properly referred to with the prefix MS or MV, but she is often known as SS \"St. Louis\". The ship was named after the city of St. Louis, Missouri. (Her sistership, the \"MS Milwaukee\", was also a diesel motor ship/motor vessel owned by the Hamburg America Line). \"St. Louis\" regularly sailed the trans-Atlantic route from Hamburg to Halifax, Nova Scotia and New York and made cruises to the Canary Islands, Madeira and Morocco. \"St. Louis\" was built for both transatlantic liner service and for leisure cruises.\n\n\"St. Louis\" set sail from Hamburg to Cuba on May 13, 1939. The vessel under command of Captain Gustav Schröder was carrying 937 passengers, most of them Jewish refugees seeking asylum from Nazi ill-treatment of Jews in Germany (→ Kristallnacht, Racial policy of Nazi Germany). Captain Schröder was a non-Jewish German who went to great lengths to ensure dignified treatment for his passengers.\n\nThe passengers aboard \"St. Louis\" had suffered abuse in Germany, but on board, they were treated very well, at the insistence of Captain Schröder. Food served included items subject to rationing in Germany, and childcare was available while parents dined. Dances and concerts were put on, and on Friday evenings, religious services were held in the dining room. A bust of Hitler was covered by a tablecloth. Swimming lessons took place in the on-deck pool. Lothar Molton, a boy traveling with his parents, said that the passengers thought of it as \"a vacation cruise to freedom\".\n\nThe ship dropped anchor at 04:00 on May 27 at the far end of the Havana Harbor but was denied entry to the usual docking areas. The Cuban government, headed by President Federico Laredo Brú, refused to accept the foreign refugees. Although passengers had previously purchased legal visas, they could not enter Cuba either as tourists (laws related to tourist visas had recently been changed) or as refugees seeking political asylum. On May 5, 1939, four months before World War II began, Havana abandoned its former pragmatic immigration policy and instead issued Decree 937, which \"restricted entry of all foreigners except U.S. citizens requiring a bond of $500 and authorization by the Cuban secretaries of state and labor. Permits and visas issued before May 5 were invalidated retroactively. None of the passengers were aware that the Cuban government had retroactively invalidated their landing permits.\n\nAfter five days in the harbor, only 29 passengers were allowed to disembark in Cuba. Twenty-two of them were Jews that had valid US visas; of the others, four were Spanish citizens and two were Cuban nationals, all with valid entry documents. The last was a medical evacuee who, after attempting to commit suicide, was taken to a hospital in Havana.\n\nTelephone records show American officials Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, and Henry Morgenthau, Secretary of the Treasury had made some efforts to persuade Cuba to accept the refugees. Their actions, together with efforts of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, were not successful.\n\nProhibited from landing in Cuba, \"St. Louis\" and the remaining 907 refugees headed towards the United States. Captain Schröder circled off the coast of Florida, hoping for permission to enter the United States. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, advised Roosevelt not to accept the Jews, however. Captain Schröder considered running aground along the coast to allow the refugees to escape, but, acting on Cordell Hull's instructions, US Coast Guard vessels shadowed the ship and prevented such a move.\n\nAfter \"St. Louis\" was turned away from the United States, a group of academics and clergy in Canada tried to persuade Canada's Prime Minister, William Lyon Mackenzie King, to provide sanctuary to the ship's passengers, as it was only two days from Halifax, Nova Scotia. But Canadian immigration official Frederick Blair, hostile to Jewish immigration, persuaded the prime minister on June 9 not to intervene. In 2000, Blair's nephew apologized to the Jewish people for his uncle's action.\n\nThe situation of the vessel deteriorated as Captain Schröder negotiated and schemed to find them a safe haven. At one point he formulated plans to wreck the ship on the British coast to force the passengers to be taken as refugees. He refused to return the ship to Germany until all the passengers had been given entry to some other country. US officials worked with Britain and European nations to find refuge for the travelers in Europe. The ship returned to Europe, docking at the Port of Antwerp (Belgium) on June 17, 1939, with 907 passengers.\n\nBritish Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain agreed to take 288 (32%) of the passengers, who disembarked and traveled to the UK via other steamers. After much negotiation by Schröder, the remaining 619 passengers were allowed to disembark at Antwerp; 224 (25%) were accepted by France, 214 (23.59%) by Belgium, and 181 (20%) by the Netherlands. The ship returned to Hamburg without any passengers. The following year, after the Nazi German invasions of Belgium, France and the Netherlands in May 1940, all the Jews in those countries were at renewed risk, including the recent refugees.\n\nBased on the survival rates for Jews in various countries, historians estimate that 180 of \"St. Louis\" refugees in France, 152 of those in Belgium, and 60 of those in the Netherlands survived the Holocaust. Including the passengers who landed in England, of the original 936 refugees (one man died during the voyage), roughly 709 survived the war and 227 did not.\n\nMore detailed research tracing each passenger has determined that 254 of those who returned to continental Europe were murdered during the Holocaust: \nAfter the war, Captain Gustav Schröder was awarded the Order of Merit by the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1993, Schröder was posthumously named as one of the Righteous among the Nations at the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial in Israel. A display at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum tells the story of the voyage of the MS \"St. Louis\". The Hamburg Museum features a display and a video about \"St. Louis\" in its exhibits about the history of shipping in the city. In 2009, a special exhibit at the Maritime Museum of the Atlantic in Halifax, Nova Scotia entitled \"Ship of Fate\" explored the Canadian connection to the tragic voyage. The display is now a traveling exhibit in Canada.\n\nIn 2011 a memorial monument called the \"Wheel of Conscience\", was produced by the Canadian Jewish Congress, designed by Daniel Libeskind with graphic design by David Berman and Trevor Johnston. The memorial is a polished stainless steel wheel. Symbolizing the policies that turned away more than 900 Jewish refugees, the wheel incorporates four inter-meshing gears each showing a word to represent factors of exclusion: antisemitism, xenophobia, racism, and hatred. The back of the memorial is inscribed with the passenger list. It was first exhibited in 2011 at the Canadian Museum of Immigration at Pier 21, Canada's national immigration museum in Halifax. After a display period, the sculpture was shipped to its fabricators, Soheil Mosun Limited, in Toronto for repair and refurbishment.\n\nIn 2012, the United States Department of State apologized in a ceremony attended by Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and 14 survivors of the incident. The survivors presented a proclamation of gratitude to various European countries for accepting some of the ship’s passengers. A signed copy of Senate Resolution 111, recognizing June 6, 2009 as the 70th anniversary of the incident, was delivered to the Department of State Archives.\n\nIn January 2017, software engineer Russel Neiss and Rabbi Charlie Schwartz set up a Twitter account which tweeted the name of each passenger who was not allowed to disembark and subsequently killed. The format of each tweet included the passenger's name, the sentence \"The US turned me away at the border in 1939\" and the location where each was killed.\n\nIn May 2018, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced the Government of Canada would offer a formal apology in the country's House of Commons for its role in the fate of the ship's passengers. The apology was issued on November 7.\n\nThe MS \"St. Louis\" was adapted as a German naval accommodation ship from 1940 to 1944. She was heavily damaged by the Allied bombings at Kiel on August 30, 1944, but was repaired and used as a hotel ship in Hamburg in 1946. She was later sold and was scrapped in 1952.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59104889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59104889", "title": "May 4 Military Parade", "text": "May 4 Military Parade\n\nThe May 4 Military Parade also known as the Freedom Celebration or the May 4 Freedom Celebration is an annual military parade in Latvia which has been held since 2012. It commemorates the date when Latvia (then the Latvian SSR) gained its independence from the Soviet Union. On May 4, 1990, the Supreme Soviet of the Latvian SSR adopted a declaration \"On the Restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia\". The parade is usually the first of two full military parades held per year in the country, with the other being held on November 11, Latvia's independence day. The parade usually starts at 11:00 am and typically involves around 700 troops of the Latvian National Armed Forces, including personnel representing the Land Forces, Navy, Air Force, National Guard, State Border Guard, Special Tasks Unit, Military Police and military academies.\nBeing a NATO member, the also commonly includes military servicemen from NATO allies such as the United States, Canada and Germany.\n\nEvery year, the parade is held in various Latvian cities outside of the capital of Riga. The following is a list of parades by year:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2884862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2884862", "title": "Pamper party", "text": "Pamper party\n\nA pamper party, or pampering party, is a female-oriented party in which the guests receives beauty and massage treatments and generally spend time to indulge and pamper themselves.\n\nPamper parties are usually held in the hostess's home, but they are sometimes offered by spas and salons. In the UK, a pamper party is a popular component of a hen party or hen weekend, which would be termed a bachelorette party in the US,\n\nPamper parties are usually considered to be a healthy indulgence; in addition to pampering treatments, the hostess usually provides healthy snacks, fruit juices and smoothies.\n\nPamper parties may also be organized as a variation to a girl's birthday party for slightly older children in which the theme of the event seeks to mimic an adult pamper party in a safe environment, such as a parent's home. \nThey combine elements of children's parties, such as party-bags, with elements of adult pamper parties, such as cosmetics and well-being, in a child-friendly manner with \"pamper baskets\" typically being given to younger guests.\nIt is common for the events to be combined with a sleepover, slumber party or pajama party. Similarly, it is a form is \"rite of passage\" from childhood to adulthood.\n\n\nPamper parties, & Home spa\n"}
{"id": "606432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606432", "title": "Paris Air Show", "text": "Paris Air Show\n\nThe Paris Air Show (Salon international de l'aéronautique et de l'espace de Paris-Le Bourget, Salon du Bourget) is the largest Air Show before UK's Farnborough, followed by Dubai Air Show or Singapore Airshow.\nThe latest was the 52nd Air Show, held from 19 to 25 June 2017, attended by 3,450 journalists, 142,000 professionals and 180,000 general public visitors.\nIt claims to be the world's calendar-oldest air show.\nEstablished in 1909 as the ILA Berlin Air Show, it has been held every odd year since 1949 at Paris–Le Bourget Airport in north Paris, France.\n\nIt is a large trade fair, demonstrating military and civilian aircraft, and is attended by many military forces and the major aircraft manufacturers, often announcing major aircraft sales.\nIt starts with four professional days and is then opened to the general public followed from Friday to Sunday.\nThe format is similar to Farnborough and the ILA, both staged in even years.\nIt is organised by the French aerospace industry's primary representative body, the \"Groupement des industries françaises aéronautiques et spatiales\" (GIFAS).\n\nThe Paris Air Show traces its history back to the first decade of the 20th century. In 1908 a section of the Paris Motor Show was dedicated to aircraft.\nThe following year, a dedicated air show was held at the Grand Palais from 25 September to 17 October, during which 100,000 visitors turned out to see products and innovations from 380 exhibitors. There were four further shows before the First World War. \n\nThe air show continued to be held at the Grand Palais, and from 1949 flying demonstrations were staged at Paris Orly Airport. In 1953, the show was relocated from the Grand Palais to Le Bourget. The show was drawing international notice in the 1960s. Since the 1970s, the show has emerged as the main international reference of the aeronautical sector.\n\nThe 1967 air show was opened by French President Charles de Gaulle, who toured the exhibits and shook hands with two Soviet cosmonauts and two American astronauts.\nProminently displayed by the Soviet Union was a three-stage Vostok rocket, such as the one that had carried Yuri Gagarin into space on April 12, 1961. The \"extraordinarily powerful\" Vostok was downplayed by American missile experts as \"rather old and unsophisticated.\". The American exhibit, the largest at the fair, featured the F-111 swing-wing fighter bomber, a replica of Charles Lindbergh's \"Spirit of St. Louis\". and the Ling-Temco-Vought XC-142A, a cargo plane capable of a vertical takeoff and landing.\nA full-size model of the supersonic Concorde was displayed by the French and British, auguring its successful first flight on March 2, 1969.\n\n\"The largest plane in the world,\" the Boeing 747 jet airliner, arrived on June 3, after flying non-stop from Seattle, Washington, and the Apollo 8 command module, charred by its re-entry, was there flanked by the Apollo 9 astronauts, but the most-viewed exhibit was the supersonic Concorde, which made its first flight over Paris as the show opened.\n\nThe Soviet TU-144 supersonic airliner was flown to Le Bourget for the 1971 show, drawing comparisons with the French Concorde. Landing with the Concorde was the world's largest aircraft, the American Lockheed C-5A Galaxy.\n\nThe crash of the Soviet Tu-144, see below, overshadowed the 1973 show, otherwise characterized by \"There was nothing new\", although the flying was memorable, and there were a great many exhibits.\n\nOne hundred and eighty-two aircraft were scheduled for appearance. Despite restrictions that followed the TU-144 crash in 1973, a day of flying pleased viewers. In particular, the American YF-16 and the French Mirage F-1E competed in turn before a critical audience. Days later, Belgium became the fourth European nation to choose the YF-16 over the F-1E.\n\nCelebration of Charles Lindbergh's trans-Atlantic flight to Le Bourget fifty years ago recalled that historic event. Anne Morrow Lindbergh, Lindbergh's widow, attended the ceremony along with early trans-Atlantic pilots, Maurice Bellonte and Armand Lotti. Recent extension of coastal limits to 200 nautical miles has produced new maritime-reconnaissance (MR) aircraft. The crash of a Fairchild A-10 tank-destroyer led to tightened rules on air show demonstrations.\n\nTwo airliners, the Airbus A310 and the Boeing 767, are competing for the international market, but neither will carry passengers before 1982. The Westland WG30 transport helicopter shows promise. \"The Mirage 4000 remains a question mark\" despite being \"surely the main highlight this year at Le Bourget.\"\n\nExhibiting at the show, Airbus, Boeing, and McDonnell Douglas/Fokker vie for the 150-seat airline market, while Rolls Royce/Japan, General Electric/Snecma (CFM), and Pratt & Whitney contest for their engines. The Northrop F-5G Tigershark mockup was on display and expected to fly in 1982 with delivery the following year. A novelty was Air Transat, a light aircraft trans-Atlantic race from Le Bourget to Sikorsky Memorial Airport, Bridgeport, Connecticut and back, won by a twin engine Piper Navaho and a Beechcraft Bonanza.\n\nThe American Space Shuttle \"Enterprise\" was flown around Paris and towered over other exhibits, but \"much more intriguing\" were replicas of two twin-engined fighters, the British Aerospace ACA and French Dassault Breguet ACX. Sales of Boeing 757 and Airbus A310 airliners to Singapore Airlines were welcome news during an ongoing recession.\nThe Soviet Antonov An-124 Ruslan military heavy lifter was the largest exhibit in 1985. Propfan engines stirred interest. Reflecting the upturn in the economy, Boeing and Airbus announced new contracts totaling as much as $1,700 million. The Hubble space telescope should be deployed in 1986.\nNewly introduced, in the rain, were the Soviet Mil Mi-34 Helicopter, the Israeli Super Phantom, and the Harrier GR.5. Airbus announced firm orders for both the A330 and A340 airliners. Exhibiting at the show for the first time, the Chinese displayed, among others, the A-5C Attacker (Fantan) and FT-7. Richard Rutan and Jeana Yeager, who flew a Voyager non-stop around the world without refueling, were present, but their aircraft was not.\n\nThe \"38th Paris International Air and Space Show\" or \"1989 Paris Air Show\", featured a variety of aerospace technology from NATO and Warsaw Pact nations.\nA Mikoyan MiG-29 crashed during a demonstration flight with no loss of life. The then-Soviet space shuttle Buran and its carrier, Antonov An-225 Mriya, was displayed at this show.\n\nDespite a Department of Defense display of the Stealth bomber and other Gulf War armaments, most American contractors stayed home, so Soviet aircraft drew attention, among them the Beriev Be-42 Mermaid (A-40 Albatros) amphibian, the MiG-31 Foxhound interceptor, and the Yak-141 short take-off/vertical landing (ASTOVL) supersonic fighter. When it receives its first customer order, Dassault plans to begin production of the Mirage 2000-5, which is a \"new machine compared to the basic Mirage 2000.\"\n\nThe show attracted 1,611 exhibitors from 39 countries and nearly 300,000 visitors attended the show. Dassault featured the debut of the Falcon 2000, and Airbus will manufacture the 130-seat A319.\n\nThe 41st Paris Air Show main attraction was the stealth B-2 Spirit bomber, along with the Tupolev Tu-160 and Sukhoi Su-32 bombers.\nThe flying display included the Bell-Boeing V-22 tilt-rotor, the Airbus Beluga Super Transporter, the Eurofighter 2000, the Rockwell-MBB X-31 high-manoeuvrability fighter demonstrator, the McDonnell Douglas C-17 military transport, the Eurocopter EC135 civil helicopter, the Sukhoi Su-35 fighter, and the Daimler-Benz Aerospace Dornier 328-100, and for the first time on static the Boeing 777, Saab Gripen, Atlas Cheetah Mirage and Cessna Citation X.\n\nAmerica Eagle announced purchase of forty-two EMB-145 regional jets from Embraer and twenty-five Bombardier CRJ700 airliners from Bombardier. Spectators saw two Eurofighter Typhoon EF2000s flying together. A full-scale mock-up of the Bell Boeing 609 civil tilt-rotor aircraft attracted attention. IAR Brasov featured a prototype Anti-Tank Optronic Search and Combat System (SOCAT) helicopter, an upgrade of the IAR-330 Puma.\nThe 1999 show continued a trend away from displays of new aircraft toward announcements of new contracts. Although new entries such as the Fairchild 30-seat 328JET and the Boeing 100-seat 717-200\nBoeing introduced scale models of their Sonic Cruiser which would reach speeds approaching Mach 0.98, together with a walk-through hologram. The Airbus A380, seating 555, offered size rather than speed, and was there on the tarmac. Crowds toured the restored Antonov An-225 Dream, the world's largest aircraft. Dassault featured a model of the new Falcon FNX business jet that is projected to fly 10,500 kilometers at Mach 0.88. The Joint Strike Fighter (JSF), which is undergoing STOVL testing, is a likely replacement for older American F-15E Strike Eagles and F-117 Nighthawks.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "379553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379553", "title": "Photoshop contest", "text": "Photoshop contest\n\nA Photoshop contest, or sometimes Photoshop battle, is an online game, in which a website or user of an Internet forum will post a starting image — usually a photograph — and ask others to manipulate the image using some kind of graphics editing software, such as Adobe Photoshop, Corel Photo-Paint, The GIMP, PaintShop Pro, Paint.NET or Microsoft Paint. People can also use video editing software to create these images, such as Adobe Premiere Pro or NCH VideoPad.\n\nWhile Photoshop is the industry standard image editing program, Adobe Systems, the publisher of Photoshop, discourages use of \"Photoshop\" to refer to anything other than their photo editing software, to prevent their trademark from becoming generic.\n\nA large part of the humor in many of these contests involves the use of internet memes.\n\nSuch contests have recently seen increasing participation on many blogs and forums. The popular internet community Reddit has a community called /r/photoshopbattles devoted to the contests.\n\nA more \"underground\" variety of these image manipulation jokes involves the blending of celebrity faces with nude or pornographic images, often combined with references to movies, music, magazines and other forms of related popular culture.\n\nPhotoshop tennis (also known as Photoshop Pong or Photoshop battle (similar in its function to a \"DJ battle\" in hip hop music) is a game played through sequential alternating photoshopping of an image. Photoshop tennis originated in graphics-related internet forums in the late-1990s/early-2000s, and shares an earlier history with online image games such as SITO's \"PANIC\" (started January, 1994). The game was made popular by art director Jim Coudal in 2001 as \"Photoshop Tennis\". The matches on coudal.com have since been renamed Layer Tennis, as they are no longer restricted to the use of Adobe Photoshop.\n\nEach match of Photoshop tennis is generally played with two competing players. The players pick a starting image, or one is \"served\" by a player, then another player makes some sort of alteration to the image in any chosen image editor (matches are not exclusive to Adobe Photoshop). They then send the altered image to the other player or players, usually via e-mail or by posting the image to a Photoshop tennis forum, who then edits that image and sends it back to the first player. This process goes back and forth until a predetermined number of rounds have elapsed, or the players otherwise wish to end the game. When the final round is over, there may be an independent judge who determines who has played the best shots, and declares that person the winner, or players may play without a clear winner. Sometimes extra rules can be enforced, such as sticking to one particular software package, or keeping to a particular theme. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1963715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1963715", "title": "Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air", "text": "Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air\n\nThe Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air, supplementing the Convention against Transnational Organised Crime, was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2000. It is also referred to as the Smuggling Protocol. It is one of the three Palermo protocols, the others being the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children and the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition.\n\nThe Smuggling Protocol entered into force on 28 January 2004. As of September 2017, the protocol has been signed by 112 parties and ratified by 146.\n\nThe Protocol is aimed at the protection of rights of migrants and the reduction of the power and influence of organized criminal groups that abuse migrants. It emphasizes the need to provide migrants with humane treatment, and the need for comprehensive international approaches to combating people smuggling, including socio-economic measures that address the root causes of migration.\n\nThe Protocol requires States Parties that have ratified to ensure that migrant smuggling (also called people smuggling) is criminalised in accordance with its terms, and those set out in the Convention on Transnational Organised Crime.\n\nGiven the current political priority around people smuggling, it is perhaps surprising that a concerted international focus on defining and responding to migrant smuggling only occurred in the 1990s. This focus followed sharp rises in irregular migration to the United States, and to Europe in the 1980s and 90s. A focus on those who facilitate irregular migration - rather than migrants themselves - was seen as a critical element of any response. The resulting legal framework was the Protocol against the Smuggling of Migrants by Land, Sea and Air (Migrant Smuggling Protocol), that supplements the parent instrument, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.\n\nThe Migrant Smuggling Protocol does not provide a complete or self-contained legal regime but instead exists as part of a \"dense web of rights, obligations and responsibilities drawn not just from the Protocol and Convention but also from the law of the sea, human rights law, and refugee law.\"\n\nUnlike human trafficking, people smuggling is characterized by the consent between customer and smuggler - a contractual agreement that typically terminates upon arrival in the destination location. However, smuggling situations can nonetheless in reality descend into situations that can best be described as extreme human rights abuses, with smuggled migrants subject to threats, abuse, exploitation and torture, and even death at the hands of smugglers (see for example, case studies in Gallagher and David, International Law of Migrant Smuggling, 2014, 9-10).\n\n\nbroken link\n\n"}
{"id": "12423328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12423328", "title": "Rapska fjera", "text": "Rapska fjera\n\nRapska fjera is a historical reenactment and festival on the island of Rab in Croatia, in which the people of the island present their history for tourists. The residents of the island try to present the life of their ancestors in three days of costumed performances and demonstrations.\n\nThis event is based on historical reenactment and celebrations lasting for three days around the feast days of St. Christopher (patron saint) in the town of Rab. The event includes a medieval festival of crafts and customs and a crossbow tournament.\n\nIt is held on the streets of the oldest part of Rab. There are displays of traditional crafts such as pottery, painting, fishing, coinage, stitching, basket weaving, carpentry, and sculpting, as well as displays by florists, honey makers, herbalists, and from crossbowmen who explain the technique and the history of the crossbow. In the gallery PIK, there is a recreation of a traditional medieval household, including women rippling wool, weaving, grain grinding, bread making and traditional song.\n\nThe celebrations were first held in 1364 in honor of King Louis the Great who defended Rab from Venice. At that time they lasted for a whole week around the feast days of St. James, St. Anne, and St. Christopher, culminating with the knights' crossbow tournament. Fjera is now held on those three days (25, 26 & 27 July). It culminates with a costumed parade, the crossbow tournament on St. Christopher's square, and cannon fireworks.\n\nParticipants:\n\n"}
{"id": "45547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45547", "title": "Refugee", "text": "Refugee\n\nA refugee, generally speaking, is a displaced person who has been forced to cross national boundaries and who cannot return home safely (for more detail see legal definition). Such a person may be called an asylum seeker until granted refugee status by the contracting state or the UNHCR if they formally make a claim for asylum.\nThe lead international agency coordinating refugee protection is the United Nations Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The United Nations have a second Office for refugees, the UNRWA, which is solely responsible for supporting the large majority of Palestinian refugees.\nAlthough similar terms in other languages have described an event marking large scale migration of a specific population from a place of origin, such as the biblical account of Israelites fleeing from Assyrian conquest (\"circa\" 740 BCE), in English, the term \"refugee\" derives from the root word \"refuge\", from Old French \"refuge\", meaning \"hiding place\". It refers to \"shelter or protection from danger or distress\", from Latin \"fugere\", \"to flee\", and \"refugium\", \"a taking [of] refuge, place to flee back to\". In Western history, the term was first applied to French Huguenots, after the Edict of Fontainebleau (1540), who again migrated from France after the Edict of Nantes revocation (1685). The word meant \"one seeking asylum\", until around 1914, when it evolved to mean \"one fleeing home\", applied in this instance to civilians in Flanders heading west to escape fighting in World War I.\n\nThe first modern definition of international refugee status came about under the League of Nations in 1921 from the Commission for Refugees. Following World War II, and in response to the large numbers of people fleeing Eastern Europe, the UN 1951 Refugee Convention adopted (in Article 1.A.2) the following definition of \"refugee\" to apply to any person who: \"owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it.\"\n\nIn 1967, this legal concept was expanded by the UN Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees.\n\nThe Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa expanded the 1951 definition, which the Organization of African Unity adopted in 1969:\"Every person who, owing to external aggression, occupation, foreign domination or events seriously disturbing public order in either part or the whole of his country of origin or nationality, is compelled to leave his place of habitual residence in order to seek refuge in another place outside his country of origin or nationality.\"\nThe 1984 regional, non-binding Latin-American Cartagena Declaration on Refugees includes:\n\n\"persons who have fled their country because their lives, safety or freedom have been threatened by generalized violence, foreign aggression, internal conflicts, massive violation of human rights or other circumstances which have seriously disturbed public order.\"\n\nAs of 2011, the UNHCR itself, in addition to the 1951 definition, recognizes persons as refugees:\n\n\"who are outside their country of nationality or habitual residence and unable to return there owing to serious and indiscriminate threats to life, physical integrity or freedom resulting from generalized violence or events seriously disturbing public order.\"\n\nEuropean Union's minimum standards definition of refugee, underlined by Art. 2 (c) of Directive No. 2004/83/EC, essentially reproduces the narrow definition of refugee offered by the UN 1951 Convention; nevertheless, by virtue of articles 2 (e) and 15 of the same Directive, persons who have fled a war-caused generalized violence are, at certain conditions, eligible for a complementary form of protection, called subsidiary protection. The same form of protection is foreseen for displaced people who, without being refugees, are nevertheless exposed, if returned to their countries of origin, to death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatments.\n\nThe idea that a person who sought sanctuary in a holy place could not be harmed without inviting divine retribution was familiar to the ancient Greeks and ancient Egyptians. However, the right to seek asylum in a church or other holy place was first codified in law by King Æthelberht of Kent in about AD 600. Similar laws were implemented throughout Europe in the Middle Ages. The related concept of political exile also has a long history: Ovid was sent to Tomis; Voltaire was sent to England. By the 1648 Peace of Westphalia, nations recognized each other's sovereignty. However, it was not until the advent of romantic nationalism in late 18th-century Europe that nationalism gained sufficient prevalence for the phrase \"country of nationality\" to become practically meaningful, and for border crossing to require that people provide identification.\n\nThe term \"refugee\" sometime applies to people who might fit the definition outlined by the 1951 Convention, were it applied retroactively. There are many candidates. For example, after the Edict of Fontainebleau in 1685 outlawed Protestantism in France, hundreds of thousands of Huguenots fled to England, the Netherlands, Switzerland, South Africa, Germany and Prussia. The repeated waves of pogroms that swept Eastern Europe in the 19th and early 20th centuries prompted mass Jewish emigration (more than 2 million Russian Jews emigrated in the period 1881–1920). Beginning in the 19th century, Muslim people emigrated to Turkey from Europe. The Balkan Wars of 1912–1913 caused 800,000 people to leave their homes. Various groups of people were officially designated refugees beginning in World War I.\n\nThe first international co-ordination of refugee affairs came with the creation by the League of Nations in 1921 of the High Commission for Refugees and the appointment of Fridtjof Nansen as its head. Nansen and the Commission were charged with assisting the approximately 1,500,000 people who fled the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the subsequent civil war (1917–1921), p. 1. most of them aristocrats fleeing the Communist government. It is estimated that about 800,000 Russian refugees became stateless when Lenin revoked citizenship for all Russian expatriates in 1921.\n\nIn 1923, the mandate of the Commission was expanded to include the more than one million Armenians who left Turkish Asia Minor in 1915 and 1923 due to a series of events now known as the Armenian Genocide. Over the next several years, the mandate was expanded further to cover Assyrians and Turkish refugees. In all of these cases, a refugee was defined as a person in a group for which the League of Nations had approved a mandate, as opposed to a person to whom a general definition applied.\n\nThe 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey involved about two million people (around 1.5 million Anatolian Greeks and 500,000 Muslims in Greece) most of whom were forcibly repatriated and denaturalized from homelands of centuries or millennia (and guaranteed the nationality of the destination country) by a treaty promoted and overseen by the international community as part of the Treaty of Lausanne (1923).\n\nThe U.S. Congress passed the Emergency Quota Act in 1921, followed by the Immigration Act of 1924. The Immigration Act of 1924 was aimed at further restricting the Southern and Eastern Europeans, especially Jews, Italians and Slavs, who had begun to enter the country in large numbers beginning in the 1890s. Most European refugees (principally Jews and Slavs) fleeing the Nazis and the Soviet Union were barred from going to the United States until after World War II.\n\nIn 1930, the Nansen International Office for Refugees (Nansen Office) was established as a successor agency to the Commission. Its most notable achievement was the Nansen passport, a refugee travel document, for which it was awarded the 1938 Nobel Peace Prize. The Nansen Office was plagued by problems of financing, an increase in refugee numbers, and a lack of co-operation from some member states, which led to mixed success overall.\n\nHowever, the Nansen Office managed to lead fourteen nations to ratify the 1933 Refugee Convention, an early, and relatively modest, attempt at a human rights charter, and in general assisted around one million refugees worldwide.\n\nThe rise of Nazism led to such a very large increase in the number of refugees from Germany that in 1933 the League created a high commission for refugees coming from Germany. Besides other measures by the Nazis which created fear and flight, Jews were stripped of German citizenship by the \"Reich Citizenship Law\" of 1935. On 4 July 1936 an agreement was signed under League auspices that defined a refugee coming from Germany as \"any person who was settled in that country, who does not possess any nationality other than German nationality, and in respect of whom it is established that in law or in fact he or she does not enjoy the protection of the Government of the Reich\" (article 1).\n\nThe mandate of the High Commission was subsequently expanded to include persons from Austria and Sudetenland, which Germany annexed after 1 October 1938 in accordance with the Munich Agreement. According to the Institute for Refugee Assistance, the actual count of refugees from Czechoslovakia on 1 March 1939 stood at almost 150,000. Between 1933 and 1939, about 200,000 Jews fleeing Nazism were able to find refuge in France, while at least 55,000 Jews were able to find refuge in Palestine p. 326 n. 6. before the British authorities closed that destination in 1939.\n\nOn 31 December 1938, both the Nansen Office and High Commission were dissolved and replaced by the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees under the Protection of the League. This coincided with the flight of several hundred thousand Spanish Republicans to France after their defeat by the Nationalists in 1939 in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe conflict and political instability during World War II led to massive numbers of refugees (see World War II evacuation and expulsion). In 1943, the Allies created the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) to provide aid to areas liberated from Axis powers, including parts of Europe and China. By the end of the War, Europe had more than 40 million refugees. UNRRA was involved in returning over seven million refugees, then commonly referred to as displaced persons or DPs, to their country of origin and setting up displaced persons camps for one million refugees who refused to be repatriated. Even two years after the end of War, some 850,000 people still lived in DP camps across Western Europe. DP Camps in Europe Intro, from: \"DPs Europe's Displaced Persons, 1945–1951\" by Mark Wyman After the establishment of Israel in 1948, Israel accepted more than 650,000 refugees by 1950. By 1953, over 250,000 refugees were still in Europe, most of them old, infirm, crippled, or otherwise disabled.\n\nAfter the Soviet armed forces captured eastern Poland from the Germans in 1944, the Soviets unilaterally declared a new frontier between the Soviet Union and Poland approximately at the Curzon Line, despite the protestations from the Polish government-in-exile in London and the western Allies at the Teheran Conference and the Yalta Conference of February 1945. After the German surrender on 7 May 1945, the Allies occupied the remainder of Germany, and the Berlin declaration of 5 June 1945 confirmed the division of Allied-occupied Germany according to the Yalta Conference, which stipulated the continued existence of the German Reich as a whole, which would include its eastern territories as of 31 December 1937. This did not impact on Poland's eastern border, and Stalin refused to be removed from these eastern Polish territories.\n\nIn the last months of World War II, about five million German civilians from the German provinces of East Prussia, Pomerania and Silesia fled the advance of the Red Army from the east and became refugees in Mecklenburg, Brandenburg and Saxony. Since the spring of 1945 the Poles had been forcefully expelling the remaining German population in these provinces. When the Allies met in Potsdam on 17 July 1945 at the Potsdam Conference, a chaotic refugee situation faced the occupying powers. The Potsdam Agreement, signed on 2 August 1945, defined the Polish western border as that of 1937, (Article VIII) Agreements of the Berlin (Potsdam) Conference placing one fourth of Germany's territory under the Provisional Polish administration. Article XII ordered that the remaining German populations in Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary be transferred west in an \"orderly and humane\" manner.Agreements of the Berlin (Potsdam) Conference (See Flight and expulsion of Germans (1944–50).)\nAlthough not approved by Allies at Potsdam, hundreds of thousands of ethnic Germans living in Yugoslavia and Romania were deported to slave labour in the Soviet Union, to Allied-occupied Germany, and subsequently to the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany). This entailed the largest population transfer in history. In all 15 million Germans were affected, and more than two million perished during the expulsions of the German population. (See Flight and expulsion of Germans (1944–1950).) Between the end of War and the erection of the Berlin Wall in 1961, more than 563,700 refugees from East Germany traveled to West Germany for asylum from the Soviet occupation.\n\nDuring the same period, millions of former Russian citizens were forcefully repatriated against their will into the USSR. On 11 February 1945, at the conclusion of the Yalta Conference, the United States and United Kingdom signed a Repatriation Agreement with the USSR. The interpretation of this Agreement resulted in the forcible repatriation of all Soviets regardless of their wishes. When the war ended in May 1945, British and United States civilian authorities ordered their military forces in Europe to deport to the Soviet Union millions of former residents of the USSR, including many persons who had left Russia and established different citizenship decades before. The forced repatriation operations took place from 1945 to 1947.\nAt the end of World War II, there were more than 5 million \"displaced persons\" from the Soviet Union in Western Europe. About 3 million had been forced laborers (Ostarbeiters) in Germany and occupied territories. The Soviet POWs and the Vlasov men were put under the jurisdiction of SMERSH (Death to Spies). Of the 5.7 million Soviet prisoners of war captured by the Germans, 3.5 million had died while in German captivity by the end of the war. The survivors on their return to the USSR were treated as traitors (see Order No. 270). Over 1.5 million surviving Red Army soldiers imprisoned by the Nazis were sent to the Gulag.\n\nPoland and Soviet Ukraine conducted population exchanges following the imposition of a new Poland-Soviet border at the Curzon Line in 1944. About 2,100,000 Poles were expelled west of the new border (see Repatriation of Poles), while about 450,000 Ukrainians were expelled to the east of the new border. The population transfer to Soviet Ukraine occurred from September 1944 to May 1946 (see Repatriation of Ukrainians). A further 200,000 Ukrainians left southeast Poland more or less voluntarily between 1944 and 1945.\n\nDue to the report of the U.S. Committee for Refugees (1995), 10 to 15 percent of 7,5 million Azerbaijani population were refugees or displaced people. Most of them were 228,840 refugee people of Azerbaijan who fled from Armenia in 1988 as a result of deportation policy of Armenia against ethnic Azerbaijanis.\n\nThe International Refugee Organization (IRO) was founded on 20 April 1946, and took over the functions of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, which was shut down in 1947. While the handover was originally planned to take place at the beginning of 1947, it did not occur until July 1947. The International Refugee Organization was a temporary organization of the United Nations (UN), which itself had been founded in 1945, with a mandate to largely finish the UNRRA's work of repatriating or resettling European refugees. It was dissolved in 1952 after resettling about one million refugees. The definition of a refugee at this time was an individual with either a Nansen passport or a \"Certificate of identity\" issued by the International Refugee Organization.\n\nThe Constitution of the International Refugee Organization, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 15 December 1946, specified the agency's field of operations. Controversially, this defined \"persons of German ethnic origin\" who had been expelled, or were to be expelled from their countries of birth into the postwar Germany, as individuals who would \"not be the concern of the Organization.\" This excluded from its purview a group that exceeded in number all the other European displaced persons put together. Also, because of disagreements between the Western allies and the Soviet Union, the IRO only worked in areas controlled by Western armies of occupation.\n\nWith the occurrence of major instances of diaspora and forced migration, the study of their causes and implications has emerged as a legitimate interdisciplinary area of research, and began to rise by mid to late 20th century, after World War II. Although significant contributions had been made before, the latter half of the 20th century saw the establishment of institutions dedicated to the study of refugees, such as the Association for the Study of the World Refugee Problem, which was closely followed by the founding of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. In particular, the 1981 volume of the \"International Migration Review\" defined refugee studies as \"a comprehensive, historical, interdisciplinary and comparative perspective which focuses on the consistencies and patterns in the refugee experience.\" Following its publishing, the field saw a rapid increase in academic interest and scholarly inquiry, which has continued to the present. Most notably in 1988, the \"Journal of Refugee Studies\" was established as the field's first major interdisciplinary journal.\n\nThe emergence of refugee studies as a distinct field of study has been criticized by scholars due to terminological difficulty. Since no universally accepted definition for the term \"refugee\" exists, the academic respectability of the policy-based definition, as outlined in the 1951 Refugee Convention, is disputed. Additionally, academics have critiqued the lack of a theoretical basis of refugee studies and dominance of policy-oriented research. In response, scholars have attempted to steer the field toward establishing a theoretical groundwork of refugee studies through \"situating studies of particular refugee (and other forced migrant) groups in the theories of cognate areas (and major disciplines), [providing] an opportunity to use the particular circumstances of refugee situations to illuminate these more general theories and thus participate in the development of social science, rather than leading refugee studies into an intellectual cul-de-sac.\" Thus, the term \"refugee\" in the context of refugee studies can be referred to as \"legal or descriptive rubric\", encompassing socioeconomic backgrounds, personal histories, psychological analyses, and spiritualities.\n\nHeadquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) was established on 14 December 1950. It protects and supports refugees at the request of a government or the United Nations and assists in providing durable solutions, such as return or resettlement. All refugees in the world are under UNHCR mandate except Palestinian refugees, who fled the current state of Israel between 1947 and 1949, as a result of the 1948 Palestine War. These refugees are assisted by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA). However, Palestinian Arabs who fled the West Bank and Gaza after 1949 (for example, during the 1967 Six Day war) are under the jurisdiction of the UNHCR. Moreover, the UNHCR also provides protection and assistance to other categories of displaced persons: asylum seekers, refugees who returned home voluntarily but still need help rebuilding their lives, local civilian communities directly affected by large refugee movements, stateless people and so-called internally displaced people (IDPs), as well as people in refugee-like and IDP-like situations.\n\nThe agency is mandated to lead and co-ordinate international action to protect refugees and to resolve refugee problems worldwide. Its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. It strives to ensure that everyone can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in another state or territory and to offer \"durable solutions\" to refugees and refugee hosting countries.\n\nA refugee camp is a place built by governments or NGOs (such as the Red Cross) to receive refugees, internally displaced persons or sometimes also other migrants. It is usually designed to offer acute and temporary accommodation and services and any more permanent facilities and structures often banned. People may stay in these camps for many years, receiving emergency food, education and medical aid until it is safe enough to return to their country of origin.\nThere, refugees are at risk of disease, child soldier and terrorist recruitment, and physical and sexual violence. There are estimated to be 700 refugee camp locations worldwide.\n\nNot all refugees who are supported by the UNHCR live in refugee camps. A significant number, actually more than half, live in urban settings, such as the ~60,000 Iraqi refugees in Damascus (Syria), and the ~30,000 Sudanese refugees in Cairo (Egypt).\n\nThe residency status in the host country whilst under temporary UNHCR protection is very uncertain as refugees are only granted temporary visas that have to be regularly renewed. Rather than only safeguarding the rights and basic well-being of refugees in the camps or in urban settings on a temporary basis the UNHCR's ultimate goal is to find one of the three durable solutions for refugees: integration, repatriation, resettlement.\n\nLocal integration is aiming at providing the refugee with the permanent right to stay in the country of asylum, including, in some situations, as a naturalized citizen. It follows the formal granting of refugee status by the country of asylum. It is difficult to quantify the number of refugees who settled and integrated in their first country of asylum and only the number of naturalisations can give an indication. In 2014 Tanzania granted citizenship to 162,000 refugees from Burundi and in 1982 to 32,000 Rwandan refugees. Mexico naturalised 6,200 Guatemalan refugees in 2001.\n\nVoluntary return of refugees into their country of origin, in safety and dignity, is based on their free will and their informed decision. In the last couple of years parts of or even whole refugee populations were able to return to their home countries: e.g. 120,000 Congolese refugees returned from the Republic of Congo to the DRC, 30,000 Angolans returned home from the DRC and Botswana, Ivorian refugees returned from Liberia, Afghans from Pakistan, and Iraqis from Syria. In 2013, the governments of Kenya and Somalia also signed a tripartite agreement facilitating the repatriation of refugees from Somalia. The UNHCR and the IOM offer assistance to refugees who want to return voluntarily to their home countries. Many developed countries also have Assisted Voluntary Return (AVR) programmes for asylum seekers who want to go back or were refused asylum.\n\nThird country resettlement involves the assisted transfer of refugees from the country in which they have sought asylum to a safe third country that has agreed to admit them as refugees. This can be for permanent settlement or limited to a certain number of years. It is the third durable solution and it can only be considered once the two other solutions have proved impossible. The UNHCR has traditionally seen resettlement as the least preferable of the \"durable solutions\" to refugee situations. However, in April 2000 the then UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, stated \"Resettlement can no longer be seen as the least-preferred durable solution; in many cases it is the \"only\" solution for refugees.\"\n\nUNHCR's mandate has gradually been expanded to include protecting and providing humanitarian assistance to internally displaced persons (IDPs) and people in IDP-like situations. These are civilians who have been forced to flee their homes, but who have not reached a neighboring country. IDPs do not fit the legal definition of a refugee under the 1951 Refugee Convention, 1967 Protocol and the 1969 Organization for African Unity Convention, because they have not left their country. As the nature of war has changed in the last few decades, with more and more internal conflicts replacing interstate wars, the number of IDPs has increased significantly.\n\nThe term refugee is often used in different contexts: in everyday usage it refers to a forcibly displaced person who has fled their country of origin; in a more specific context it refers to such a person who was, on top of that, granted refugee status in the country the person fled to. Even more exclusive is the Convention refugee status which is given only to persons who fall within the refugee definition of the 1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol.\n\nTo receive refugee status, a person must have applied for asylum, making them—while waiting for a decision—an asylum seeker. However, a displaced person otherwise legally entitled to refugee status may never apply for asylum, or may not be allowed to apply in the country they fled to and thus may not have official asylum seeker status.\n\nOnce a displaced person is granted refugee status they enjoy certain rights as agreed in the 1951 Refugee convention. Not all countries have signed and ratified this convention and some countries do not have a legal procedure for dealing with asylum seekers.\n\nAn asylum seeker is a displaced person or immigrant who has formally sought the protection of the state they fled to as well as the right to remain in this country and who is waiting for a decision on this formal application. An asylum seeker may have applied for Convention refugee status or for complementary forms of protection. Asylum is thus a category that includes different forms of protection. Which form of protection is offered depends on the legal definition that best describes the asylum seeker's reasons to flee. Once the decision was made the asylum seeker receives either Convention refugee status or a complementary form of protection, and can stay in the country—or is refused asylum, and then often has to leave. Only after the state, territory or the UNHCR—wherever the application was made—recognises the protection needs does the asylum seeker \"officially\" receive refugee status. This carries certain rights and obligations, according to the legislation of the receiving country.\n\nQuota refugees do not need to apply for asylum on arrival in the third countries as they already went through the UNHCR refugee status determination process whilst being in the first country of asylum and this is usually accepted by the third countries.\n\nTo receive refugee status, a displaced person must go through a Refugee Status Determination (RSD) process, which is conducted by the government of the country of asylum or the UNHCR, and is based on international, regional or national law. RSD can be done on a case by case basis as well as for whole groups of people. Which of the two processes is used often depends on the size of the influx of displaced persons.\n\nThere is no specific method mandated for RSD (apart from the commitment to the 1951 Refugee Convention) and it is subject to the overall efficacy of the country's internal administrative and judicial system as well as the characteristics of the refugee flow to which the country responds. This lack of a procedural direction could create a situation where political and strategic interests override humanitarian considerations in the RSD process. There are also no fixed interpretations of the elements in the 1951 Refugee Convention and countries may interpret them differently (see also refugee roulette).\n\nHowever, in 2013, the UNHCR conducted them in more than 50 countries and co-conducted them parallel to or jointly with governments in another 20 countries, which made it the second largest RSD body in the world The UNHCR follows a set of guidelines described in the \"Handbook and Guidelines on Procedures and Criteria for Determining Refugee Status\" to determine which individuals are eligible for refugee status.\n\nRefugee rights encompass both customary law, peremptory norms, and international legal instruments. They include the following rights and obligations for refugees:\n\nEven in a supposedly \"post-conflict\" environment, it is not a simple process for refugees to return home. The UN Pinheiro Principles are guided by the idea that people not only have the right to return home, but also the right to the same property. It seeks to return to the pre-conflict status quo and ensure that no one profits from violence. Yet this is a very complex issue and every situation is different; conflict is a highly transformative force and the pre-war status-quo can never be reestablished completely, even if that were desirable (it may have caused the conflict in the first place). Therefore, the following are of particular importance to the right to return:\nRefugees who were resettled to a third country will likely lose the indefinite leave to remain in this country if they return to their country of origin or the country of first asylum.\n\nNon-refoulement is the right not to be returned to a place of persecution and is the foundation for international refugee law, as outlined in the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees. The right to non-refoulement is distinct from the right to asylum. To respect the right to asylum, states must not deport genuine refugees. In contrast, the right to non-refoulement allows states to transfer genuine refugees to third party countries with respectable human rights records. The portable procedural model, proposed by political philosopher Andy Lamey, emphasizes the right to non-refoulement by guaranteeing refugees three procedural rights (to a verbal hearing, to legal counsel, and to judicial review of detention decisions) and ensuring those rights in the constitution. This proposal attempts to strike a balance between the interest of national governments and the interests of refugees.\n\nFamily reunification (which can also be a form of resettlement) is a recognized reason for immigration in many countries. Divided families have the right to be reunited if a family member with permanent right of residency applies for the reunification and can prove the people on the application were a family unit before arrival and wish to live as a family unit since separation. If application is successful this enables the rest of the family to immigrate to that country as well.\n\nThose states that signed the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees are obliged to issue travel documents (i.e. \"Convention Travel Document\") to refugees lawfully residing in their territory. It is a valid travel document in place of a passport, however, it cannot be used to travel to the country of origin, i.e. from where the refugee fled.\n\nOnce refugees or asylum seekers have found a safe place and protection of a state or territory outside their territory of origin they are discouraged from leaving again and seeking protection in another country. If they do move onward into a second country of asylum this movement is also called \"irregular movement\" by the UNHCR (see also asylum shopping). UNHCR support in the second country may be less than in the first country and they can even be returned to the first country.\n\nWorld Refugee Day has occurred annually on 20 June since 2000 by a special United Nations General Assembly Resolution. 20 June had previously been commemorated as \"African Refugee Day\" in a number of African countries.\n\nIn the United Kingdom World Refugee Day is celebrated as part of Refugee Week. Refugee Week is a nationwide festival designed to promote understanding and to celebrate the cultural contributions of refugees, and features many events such as music, dance and theatre.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, the World Day of Migrants and Refugees is celebrated in January each year, since instituted in 1914 by Pope Pius X.\n\nDisplacement is a long lasting reality for most refugees. Two-thirds of all refugees around the world have been displaced for over three years, which is known as being in 'protracted displacement'. 50% of refugees – around 10 million people – have been displaced for over ten years.\n\nThe Overseas Development Institute has found that aid programmes need to move from short-term models of assistance (such as food or cash handouts) to more sustainable long-term programmes that help refugees become more self-reliant. This can involve tackling difficult legal and economic environments, by improving social services, job opportunities and laws.\n\nRefugees typically report poorer levels of health, compared to other immigrants and the non-immigrant population.\n\nApart from physical wounds or starvation, a large percentage of refugees develop symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or depression. These long-term mental problems can severely impede the functionality of the person in everyday situations; it makes matters even worse for displaced persons who are confronted with a new environment and challenging situations. They are also at high risk for suicide.\n\nAmong other symptoms, post-traumatic stress disorder involves anxiety, over-alertness, sleeplessness, chronic fatigue syndrome, motor difficulties, failing short term memory, amnesia, nightmares and sleep-paralysis. Flashbacks are characteristic to the disorder: the patient experiences the traumatic event, or pieces of it, again and again. Depression is also characteristic for PTSD-patients and may also occur without accompanying PTSD.\n\nPTSD was diagnosed in 34.1% of Palestinian children, most of whom were refugees, males, and working. The participants were 1,000 children aged 12 to 16 years from governmental, private, and United Nations Relief Work Agency UNRWA schools in East Jerusalem and various governorates in the West Bank.\n\nAnother study showed that 28.3% of Bosnian refugee women had symptoms of PTSD three or four years after their arrival in Sweden. These women also had significantly higher risks of symptoms of depression, anxiety, and psychological distress than Swedish-born women. For depression the odds ratio was 9.50 among Bosnian women.\n\nA study by the Department of Pediatrics and Emergency Medicine at the Boston University School of Medicine demonstrated that twenty percent of Sudanese refugee minors living in the United States had a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. They were also more likely to have worse scores on all the Child Health Questionnaire subscales.\n\nIn a study for the United Kingdom, refugees were found to be 4 percentage points more likely to report a mental health problem compared to the non-immigrant population. This contrasts with the results for other immigrant groups, which were less likely to report a mental health problem compared to the non-immigrant population.\n\nMany more studies illustrate the problem. One meta-study was conducted by the psychiatry department of Oxford University at Warneford Hospital in the United Kingdom. Twenty surveys were analyzed, providing results for 6,743 adult refugees from seven countries. In the larger studies, 9% were diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and 5% with major depression, with evidence of much psychiatric co-morbidity. Five surveys of 260 refugee children from three countries yielded a prevalence of 11% for post-traumatic stress disorder. According to this study, refugees resettled in Western countries could be about ten times more likely to have PTSD than age-matched general populations in those countries. Worldwide, tens of thousands of refugees and former refugees resettled in Western countries probably have post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nRefugees are often more susceptible to illness for several reasons, including a lack of immunity to local strains of malaria and other diseases. Displacement of a people can create favorable conditions for disease transmission. Refugee camps are typically heavily populated with poor sanitary conditions. The removal of vegetation for space, building materials or firewood also deprives mosquitoes of their natural habitats, leading them to more closely interact with humans. In the 1970s, Afghani refugees that were relocated to Pakistan were going from a country with an effective malaria control strategy, to a country with a less effective system.\n\nThe refugee camps were built near rivers or irrigation sites had higher malaria prevalence than refugee camps built on dry lands.\nThe location of the camps lent themselves to better breeding grounds for mosquitoes, and thus a higher likelihood of malaria transmission. Children aged 1–15 were the most susceptible to malaria infection, which is a significant cause of mortality in children younger than 5. Malaria was the cause of 16% of the deaths in refugee children younger than 5 years of age. Malaria is one of the most commonly reported causes of death in refugees and displaced persons. Since 2014, reports of malaria cases in Germany had doubled compared to previous years, with the majority of cases found in refugees from Eritrea.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends that all people in areas that are endemic for malaria use long-lasting insecticide nets. A cohort study found that within refugee camps in Pakistan, insecticide treated bed nets were very useful in reducing malaria cases. A single treatment of the nets with the insecticide permethrin remained protective throughout the 6 month transmission season.\n\nAccess to services depends on many factors, including whether a refugee has received official status, is situated within a refugee camp, or is in the process of third country resettlement. The UNHCR recommends integrating access to primary care and emergency health services with the host country in as equitable a manner as possible. Prioritized services include areas of maternal and child health, immunizations, tuberculosis screening and treatment, and HIV/AIDS-related services. Despite inclusive stated policies for refugee access to health care on the international levels, potential barriers to that access include language, cultural preferences, high financial costs, administrative hurdles, and physical distance. Specific barriers and policies related to health service access also emerge based on the host country context. For example, primaquine, an often recommended malaria treatment is not currently licensed for use in Germany and must be ordered from outside the country.\n\nIn Canada, barriers to healthcare access include the lack of adequately trained physicians, complex medical conditions of some refugees and the bureaucracy of medical coverage. There are also individual barriers to access such as language and transportation barriers, institutional barriers such as bureaucratic burdens and lack of entitlement knowledge, and systems level barriers such as conflicting policies, racism and physician workforce shortage.\n\nIn the US, all officially designated Iraqi refugees had health insurance coverage compared to a little more than half of non-Iraqi immigrants in a Dearborn, Michigan, study. However, greater barriers existed around transportation, language and successful stress coping mechanisms for refugees versus other immigrants, in addition, refugees noted greater medical conditions. The study also found that refugees had higher healthcare utilization rate (92.1%) as compared to the US overall population (84.8%) and immigrants (58.6%) in the study population.\n\nWithin Australia, officially designated refugees who qualify for temporary protection and offshore humanitarian refugees are eligible for health assessments, interventions and access to health insurance schemes and trauma-related counseling services. Despite being eligible to access services, barriers include economic constraints around perceived and actual costs carried by refugees. In addition, refugees must cope with a healthcare workforce unaware of the unique health needs of refugee populations. Perceived legal barriers such as fear that disclosing medical conditions prohibiting reunification of family members and current policies which reduce assistance programs may also limit access to health care services.\n\nProviding access to healthcare for refugees through integration into the current health systems of host countries may also be difficult when operating in a resource limited setting. In this context, barriers to healthcare access may include political aversion in the host country and already strained capacity of the existing health system. Political aversion to refugee access into the existing health system may stem from the wider issue of refugee resettlement. One approach to limiting such barriers is to move from a parallel administrative system in which UNHCR refugees may receive better healthcare than host nationals but is unsustainable financially and politically to that of an integrated care where refugee and host nationals receive equal and more improved care all around. In the 1980s, Pakistan attempted to address Afghan refugee healthcare access through the creation of Basic Health Units inside the camps. Funding cuts closed many of these programs, forcing refugees to seek healthcare from the local government. In response to a protracted refugee situation in the West Nile district, Ugandan officials with UNHCR created an integrative healthcare model for the mostly Sudanese refugee population and Ugandan citizens. Local nationals now access health care in facilities initially created for refugees.\n\nOne potential argument for limiting refugee access to healthcare is associated with costs with states desire to decrease health expenditure burdens. However, Germany found that restricting refugee access led to an increase actual expenditures relative to refugees which had full access to healthcare services. The legal restrictions on access to health care and the administrative barriers in Germany have been criticized since the 1990s for leading to delayed care, for increasing direct costs and administrative costs of health care, and for shifting the responsibility for care from the less expensive primary care sector to costly treatments for acute conditions in the secondary and tertiary sector.\n\nRefugee populations consist of people who are terrified and are away from familiar surroundings. There can be instances of exploitation at the hands of enforcement officials, citizens of the host country, and even United Nations peacekeepers. Instances of human rights violations, child labor, mental and physical trauma/torture, violence-related trauma, and sexual exploitation, especially of children, have been documented. In many refugee camps in three war-torn West African countries, Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia, young girls were found to be exchanging sex for money, a handful of fruit, or even a bar of soap. Most of these girls were between 13 and 18 years of age. In most cases, if the girls had been forced to stay, they would have been forced into marriage. They became pregnant around the age of 15 on average. This happened as recently as in 2001. Parents tended to turn a blind eye because sexual exploitation had become a \"mechanism of survival\" in these camps.\n\nVery rarely, refugees have been used and recruited as refugee militants or terrorists, and the humanitarian aid directed at refugee relief has very rarely been utilized to fund the acquisition of arms. Support from a refugee-receiving state has rarely been used to enable refugees to mobilize militarily, enabling conflict to spread across borders.\n\nHistorically, refugee populations have often been portrayed as a security threat. In the U.S and Europe, there has been much focus on the narrative that terrorists maintain networks amongst transnational, refugee, and migrant populations. This fear has been exaggerated into a modern-day Islamist terrorism Trojan Horse in which terrorists hide among refugees and penetrate host countries. 'Muslim-refugee-as-an-enemy-within' rhetoric is relatively new, but the underlying scapegoating of out-groups for domestic societal problems, fears and ethno-nationalist sentiment is not new. In the 1890s, the influx of Eastern European Jewish refugees to London coupled with the rise of anarchism in the city led to a confluence of threat-perception and fear of the refugee out-group. Populist rhetoric then too propelled debate over migration control and protecting national security.\n\nCross-national empirical verification, or rejection, of populist suspicion and fear of refugees' threat to national security and terror-related activities is relatively scarce. Case studies suggest that the threat of an Islamist refugee Trojan House is highly exaggerated. Of the 800,000 refugees vetted through the resettlement program in the United States between 2001 and 2016, only five were subsequently arrested on terrorism charges; and 17 of the 600,000 Iraqis and Syrians who arrived in Germany in 2015 were investigated for terrorism. One study found that European jihadists tend to be 'homegrown': over 90% were residents of a European country and 60% had European citizenship.\nWhile the statistics do not support the rhetoric, a PEW Research Center survey of ten European countries (Hungary, Poland, Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Greece, UK, France, and Spain) released on 11 July 2016, finds that the majority (ranges from 52% to 76%) of respondents in eight countries (Hungary, Poland, Netherlands, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Greece, and UK) think refugees increase the likelihood of terrorism in their country. Since 1975, in the U.S., the risk of dying in a terror attack by a refugee is 1 in 3.6 billion per year; whereas, the odds of dying in a motor vehicle crash are 1 in 113, by state sanctioned execution 1 in 111,439, or by dog attack 1 in 114,622.\n\nIn Europe, fear of immigration, Islamification and job and welfare benefits competition has fueled an increase in violence. Immigrants are perceived as a threat to ethno-nationalist identity and increase concerns over criminality and insecurity.\n\nIn the PEW survey previously referenced, 50% of respondents believe that refugees are a burden due to job and social benefit competition. When Sweden received over 160,000 asylum seekers in 2015, it was accompanied by 50 attacks against asylum-seekers, which was more than four times the number of attacks that occurred in the previous four years. At the incident level, the 2011 Utøya Norway terror attack by Breivik demonstrates the impact of this threat perception on a country's risk from domestic terrorism, in particular ethno-nationalist extremism. Breivik portrayed himself as a protector of Norwegian ethnic identity and national security fighting against immigrant criminality, competition and welfare abuse and an Islamic takeover.\n\nRefugee children come from many different backgrounds, and their reasons for resettlement are even more diverse. The number of refugee children has continued to increase as conflicts interrupt communities at a global scale. In 2014 alone, there were approximately 32 armed conflicts in 26 countries around the world, and this period saw the highest number of refugees ever recorded Refugee children experience traumatic events in their lives that can affect their learning capabilities, even after they have resettled in first or second settlement countries. Educators such as teachers, counselors, and school staff, along with the school environment, are key in facilitating socialization and acculturation of recently arrived refugee and immigrant children in their new schools.\n\nThe experiences children go through during times of armed conflict can impede their ability to learn in an educational setting. Schools experience drop-outs of refugee and immigrant students from an array of factors such as: rejection by peers, low self-esteem, antisocial behavior, negative perceptions of their academic ability, and lack of support from school staff and parents. Because refugees come from various regions globally with their own cultural, religious, linguistic, and home practices, the new school culture can conflict with the home culture, causing tension between the student and their family.\n\nAside from students, teachers and school staff also face their own obstacles in working with refugee students. They have concerns about their ability to meet the mental, physical, emotional, and educational needs of students. One study of newly arrived Bantu students from Somalia in a Chicago school questioned whether schools were equipped to provide them with a quality education that met the needs of the pupils. The students were not aware of how to use pencils, which caused them to break the tips requiring frequent sharpening. Teachers may even see refugee students as different from other immigrant groups, as was the case with the Bantu pupils. Teachers may sometimes feel that their work is made harder because of the pressures to meet state requirements for testing. With refugee children falling behind or struggling to catch up, it can overwhelm teachers and administrators.\n\nNot all students adjust the same way to their new setting. One student may take only three months, while others may take four years. One study found that even in their fourth year of schooling, Lao and Vietnamese refugee students in the US were still in a transitional status. Refugee students continue to encounter difficulties throughout their years in schools that can hinder their ability to learn. Furthermore, to provide proper support, educators must consider the experiences of students before they settled the US.\n\nIn their first settlement countries, refugee students may encounter negative experiences with education that they can carry with them post settlement. For example:\n\nStatistics found that in places such as Uganda and Kenya, there were gaps in refugee students attending schools. It found that 80% of refugees in Uganda were attending schools, whereas only 46% of students were attending schools in Kenya. Furthermore, for secondary levels, the numbers were much lower. There was only 1.4% of refugee students attending schools in Malaysia. This trend is evident across several first settlement countries and carry negative impacts on students once they arrive to their permanent settlement homes, such as the US, and have to navigate a new education system. Unfortunately, some refugees do not have a chance to attend schools in their first settlement countries because they are considered undocumented immigrants in places like Malaysia for Rohingya refugees. In other cases, such as Burundians in Tanzania, refugees can get more access to education while in displacement than in their home countries.\n\nAll students need some form of support to help them overcome obstacles and challenges they may face in their lives, especially refugee children who may experience frequent disruptions. There are a few ways in which schools can help refugee students overcome obstacles to attain success in their new homes.\nOne school in NYC has found a method that works for them to help refugee students succeed. This school creates support for language and literacies, which promotes students using English and their native languages to complete projects. Furthermore, they have a learning centered pedagogy, which promotes the idea that there are multiple entry points to engage the students in learning. Both strategies have helped refugee students succeed during their transition into US schools.\n\nVarious websites contain resources that can help school staff better learn to work with refugee students such as Bridging Refugee Youth and Children's Services. With the support of educators and the school community, education can help rebuild the academic, social, and emotional well being of refugee students who have suffered from past and present trauma, marginalization, and social alienation.\n\nIt is important to understand the cultural differences amongst newly arrived refugees and school culture, such as that of the U.S. This can be seen as problematic because of the frequent disruptions that it can create in a classroom setting.\n\nIn addition, because of the differences in language and culture, students are often placed in lower classes due to their lack of English proficiency. Students can also be made to repeat classes because of their lack of English proficiency, even if they have mastered the content of the class. When schools have the resources and are able to provide separate classes for refugee students to develop their English skills, it can take the average refugee students only three months to catch up with their peers. This was the case with Somali refugees at some primary schools in Nairobi.\n\nThe histories of refugee students are often hidden from educators, resulting in cultural misunderstandings. However, when teachers, school staff, and peers help refugee students develop a positive cultural identity, it can help buffer the negative effects refugees' experiences have on them, such as poor academic performance, isolation, and discrimination.\n\nRefugee crisis can refer to movements of large groups of displaced persons, who could be either internally displaced persons, refugees or other migrants. It can also refer to incidents in the country of origin or departure, to large problems whilst on the move or even after arrival in a safe country that involve large groups of displaced persons.\n\nIn 2018, the United Nations estimated the number of forcibly displaced people to be 68.5 million worldwide. Of those, 25.4 million are refugees while 40 million are internally displaced within a nation state and 3.1 million are classified as asylum seekers. 85% of refugees are hosted in developed countries, with 57% coming from Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan. Turkey is the top hosting country of refugees with 3.5 million displaced people within its borders.\n\nIn 2006, there were 8.4 million UNHCR registered refugees worldwide, the lowest number since 1980. At the end of 2015, there were 16.1 million refugees worldwide. When adding the 5.2 million Palestinian refugees who are under UNRWA's mandate there were 21.3 million refugees worldwide. The overall forced displacement worldwide has reached to a total of 65.3 million displaced persons in the end of 2015, while it was 59.5 million 12 months earlier. One in every 113 people globally is an asylum seeker or a refugee. In 2015, the total number of displaced people worldwide, including refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons, was at its highest level on record.\n\nAmong them, Syrian refugees were the largest group in 2015 at 4.9 million. In 2014, Syrians had overtaken Afghan refugees (2.7 million), who had been the largest refugee group for three decades. Somalis were the third largest group with one million. The countries hosting the largest number of refugees according to UNHCR were Turkey (2.5 million), Pakistan (1.6 million), Lebanon (1.1 million) and Iran (1 million). the countries that had the largest numbers of internally displaced people were Colombia at 6.9, Syria at 6.6 million and Iraq at 4.4 million.\n\nChildren were 51% of refugees in 2015 and most of them were separated from their parents or travelling alone. in 2015, 86 per cent of the refugees under UNHCR's mandate were in low- and middle-income countries that themselves are close to situations of conflict. Refugees have historically tended to flee to nearby countries with ethnic kin populations and a history of accepting other co-ethnic refugees. The religious, sectarian and denominational affiliation has been an important feature of debate in refugee-hosting nations.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31859670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31859670", "title": "Reg Grant", "text": "Reg Grant\n\nReginald Joseph Cowan \"Reg\" Grant, (3 June 1914 – 28 February 1944) was an officer of the Royal New Zealand Air Force and a flying ace of the Second World War. He commanded No. 485 Squadron RNZAF and later No. 65 Squadron RAF in operations over Europe, but was killed in a flying accident in 1944.\n\nGrant was born on 3 June 1914, in Woodville, a small town in New Zealand's North Island. He was educated at Auckland Grammar School. After schooling, he commenced working as a metal spinner. Grant joined the Royal New Zealand Air Force (RNZAF) in November 1939 and, having completed his flying training, he was posted to the United Kingdom as a sergeant pilot to join No. 145 Squadron at Tangmere in March 1941.\n\nIn June and July 1941, Grant was flying Spitfires from RAF Manston, and during that period he destroyed four Messerschmitt Bf 109s. By August 1941, and having taken part in 22 operations, Grant was awarded the Distinguished Flying Medal. That same month he was promoted to the rank of pilot officer and posted to No. 485 Squadron, the all-New Zealand fighter unit. In March 1942, Grant was promoted to flight lieutenant and the same month he destroyed a Focke-Wulf Fw 190 during a sweep from Cap Gris Nez to Dunkirk. In May 1942, he took command of No. 485 Squadron and four months later was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC) for setting an excellent example of leadership and efficiency.\n\nIn November 1942, Grant's younger brother, Ian, was posted to No. 485 Squadron. On 13 February 1943, the squadron took off for a mission across northern France and shortly after crossing the French coast the Spitfires sighted and engaged a force of Fw 190s. However, a further 20 German fighters attacked out of the sun] Ian Grant was killed during the attack, one of three Spitfires to be shot down. Reg Grant saw the threat but was unable to warn his brother in time. He immediately engaged the Fw 190 that had carried out the attack and shot it down.\n\nGrant completed his operational tour in March 1943, having carried out 150 sorties and destroying eight enemy aircraft. He was awarded a Bar to his DFC in June. After some months in Canada, where he lectured New Zealand air crew trainees, Grant returned to England in November 1943 and was given command of No. 65 Squadron. Early in 1944 he was appointed wing commander (flying) of No. 122 Wing, equipped with Mustangs. On 28 February 1944, Grant took off for a sortie across the English Channel. Shortly after take off, in cloud, the engine of his fighter cut out. After ordering the wing to carry on without him, he turned back to base. On coming out of cloud at 1000 feet, he bailed out but was too low for his parachute to open properly and fell to his death. The crash site is located on the eastbound A13 carriageway approximately 100 metres east of the A128 flyover above the main A13 London to Southend Road. Grant was buried at Brookwood Military Cemetery.\n\nOn 28 February 2004, 60 years to the day after Grant's death, a dedication of memorial and service was held for his remembrance. In September 2010, a room naming and unveiling ceremony was held at HQ No. 485 Wing at Whenuapai, outside Auckland, in honour of three former Second World War Commanding Officers of No. 485 Squadron, one being Grant.\n\n"}
{"id": "1175637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1175637", "title": "Renaissance fair", "text": "Renaissance fair\n\nA Renaissance fair, Renaissance faire or Renaissance festival is an outdoor weekend gathering, usually held in the United States, open to the public and typically commercial in nature, which purportedly recreates a historical setting for the amusement of its guests. Some are permanent theme parks, while others are short-term events in a fairground, winery, or other large public or private spaces. Renaissance fairs generally include an abundance of costumed entertainers or fair-goers, musical and theatrical acts, art and handicrafts for sale, and festival food. Some offer campgrounds for those who wish to stay more than one day. Many Renaissance fairs are set during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I of England. Some are set earlier, during the reign of Henry VIII, or in other countries, such as France, and some are set outside the era of the Renaissance; these may include earlier medieval periods (including Vikings), or later periods, such as 17th-/18th-century pirates. Some engage in deliberate \"time travel\" by encouraging participants to wear costumes representing several eras in a broad time period. Renaissance fairs encourage visitors to enter into the spirit of things with costumes and audience participation. Many welcome fantasy elements such as wizards and elves.\n\nMost Renaissance fairs are arranged to represent an imagined village in England during the reign of Elizabeth I, as this period has been generally considered to correspond to the flowering of the English Renaissance.\n\nIn a modern Renaissance festival there are stages or performance areas set up for scheduled shows, such as plays in Shakespearean or commedia dell'arte tradition, as well as anachronistic audience participation comedy routines. Other performances include dancers, magicians, musicians, jugglers, and singers. Between the stages the streets (\"lanes\") are lined with stores (\"shoppes\") and stalls where independent vendors sell medieval and Renaissance themed handcrafts, clothing, books, and artworks. There are food and beverage vendors, as well as game and ride areas. Games include basic skills events such as archery or axe-throwing as well as Drench-a-Wench and Soak-a-Bloke, which allow a player with a good aim to hit a target and get a fair employee wet. Rides are typically not machine powered; various animal rides and human-powered swings are common. Live animal displays and falconry exhibitions are also commonplace. Larger Renaissance fairs will often include a joust as a main attraction. PETA and Born Free USA have protested the use of elephants and camels at the Maryland Renaissance Festival and Arizona Renaissance Festival.\n\nIn addition to the staged performances, a major attraction of Renaissance fairs is the crowds of actors — both professional and amateur — who play historical figures and roam the fair, interacting with visitors. Visitors are encouraged to wear costumes, contributing to the illusion of an actual Renaissance environment. Some allow weapons that are suitably peace-bonded, others only allow fair employees to wear them. Many of the fair vendors sell or rent costumes for all ages and types. The Renaissance fair subculture's word for these costumed guests is \"playtrons\", a portmanteau of the words \"player\" and \"patron\", and they add a second level of enjoyment to their experience by \"getting into the act\" as Renaissance Lords and Ladies, peasants, pirates, belly dancers, or fantasy characters. However, many Renaissance fairs discourage interaction between the official cast and so-called \"playtrons.\"\n\nMost fairs have an end-of-the-day ritual, a parade, dance or concert where all employees gather and bid farewell to the patrons.\n\nRenaissance fairs are staged around the world at different times of the year. Fair vendors, participants and crew often work the \"fair circuit\", going from event to event as one fair ends and another begins.\n\nIn post-World War II America, there was a resurgence of interest in medieval and Renaissance culture. In the 1950s, there was a very strong early music revival, and out of that came folk musician and traditionalist John Langstaff. In 1957, Langstaff held \"A Christmas Masque of Traditional Revels\" in New York City, and the following year another in Washington, DC. A televised version was broadcast on the \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\" in 1966 which included Dustin Hoffman playing the part of the dragon slain by Saint George, and in 1971 Langstaff established a permanent Christmas Revels in Cambridge, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1963, Los Angeles schoolteacher Phyllis Patterson held a very small Renaissance fair as a class activity, in the backyard of her Laurel Canyon home in the Hollywood Hills. On May 11 and 12 of that year, Patterson and her husband, Ron Patterson, presented the first \"Renaissance Pleasure Faire\" as a one-weekend fundraiser for radio station KPFK which drew some 8,000 people. The fair was designed by the Living History Center to resemble an actual Spring market fair of the period. Many of the original booths were no-charge reenactments of historical activities, including printing presses and blacksmiths. The first commercial vendors were mostly artisans and food merchants and were required to demonstrate historical accuracy or plausibility for their wares. Groups of volunteers were organized into \"guilds\" to focus on specific reenactment duties (musicians, military, Celtic clans, peasants, etc.). Both actors and vendors were required to successfully complete workshops in period language and accents, costuming, and culture, and to stay \"in character\" while working.\nThe original Renaissance Pleasure Faire of Southern California (RPFS) was held in the Spring 1966 at the Paramount Ranch located in Agoura, California, focusing on the practices of old English springtime markets and \"Maying\" customs. Five years later, the Pattersons created a Fall Renaissance fair, with a harvest festival theme, first at what is now China Camp State Park in San Rafael, California, and two years later at the Black Point Forest in Novato, California. Both fairs developed into local traditions and began a movement that spread across the country.\nAlthough historical reenactments are by no means exclusive to the United States (for example, the Earl of Eglinton in Scotland sponsored a large tournament in 1839), the Renaissance fair is largely an American variation on the theme. European historical fairs, such as those held at Kentwell Hall in Suffolk, England, operate more on the living history museum model, in which an actual historic site is peopled by re-enactors whose job it is to explain historical life to modern visitors.\n\nIn recent years, American-style Renaissance fairs have made inroads in other countries. Germany has seen a very similar phenomenon since the 1980s (see ), and beginning in the mid-1990s, Renaissance fairs have spread into Canada and Australia.\nSpinoffs of Renaissance fairs also include fairs set in other time periods, such as Christmas fairs set in Charles Dickens' London.\n\nRenaissance fairs have several variant names, many of which use old-fashioned spellings such as \"faire\" or \"fayre\". These spellings originate from the Middle English \"feire\" (variant spellings include \"feyre\", \"faire\", and \"fayre\"), which comes from the Anglo-French word \"feire\". They can also be referred to as \"Elizabethan\", \"Medieval\", or \"Tudor\" fairs or festivals. \"Ren Fair\" and \"Ren Fest\" are popular colloquialisms. A German \"Mittelaltermarkt\" (literally \"medieval market\") is very similar to a Renaissance fair. Many Catalan towns hold \"Mercats Medievals\" (literally \"medieval markets\") as part of their annual festivities.\n\nWithin the Renaissance fair community, there is a difference of opinion as to how authentic a fair ought to be. Some believe fairs should be as authentic an experience as possible, with educational aspects like European living history museums. Others believe that entertainment is the primary goal. Phyllis Patterson steered the original California Renaissance Pleasure Faires along a middle path, and had coined the phrase “We trick into learning with a laugh” to demonstrate that philosophy of merging history and entertainment. Richard Shapiro, who founded what later became the Bristol Renaissance Faire outside Chicago, said he favored entertainment. He was quoted as having said, \"We were so authentic back then it was almost painful.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "660542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=660542", "title": "Serviceability failure", "text": "Serviceability failure\n\nIn engineering, a serviceability failure occurs when a structure does not collapse, but rather fails to meet the required specifications. For example, severe wind may cause an excess of vibration at a pedestrian bridge making it impossible to cross it safely or comfortably. Similar excessive vibrations can be caused by pedestrians due to their walking, running, or jumping. Similarly, storm conditions may cause water to spill over a coastal structure, so that boats are not safe behind the structure.\n\nExamples of serviceability failures include:\na) Deformations\nb) Vibration\nc) Cracking\nd) Leakages\n"}
{"id": "20067442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20067442", "title": "Spektr-UV", "text": "Spektr-UV\n\nThe Spektr-UV, also known as World Space Observatory-Ultraviolet (WSO-UV), is a proposed space telescope intended for work in the 110 nm to 320 nm wavelength range. Launch had been planned for 2007 or earlier, but the current launch date estimate is 2021.\n\nThe main instrument of the observatory is 1.7-metre Ritchey-Chretien telescope. The telescope will be equipped by the following instruments:\n\n\nIn October 2012, tests of antennas of space telescope were completed.\n\nThis international project is led by Russia (Roskosmos).\nAt present the international cooperation includes three basic participants:\nRussia ( will provide the telescope, spacecraft, launch facilities, ground segment); Spain (ISSIS, ground segment); Germany (spectrographs). Ukraine and Kazakhstan also participate the project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32011384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32011384", "title": "Teatro Alessandro Bonci", "text": "Teatro Alessandro Bonci\n\nThe Teatro Comunale Alessandro Bonci (\"Alessandro Bonci Theatre\") is an opera house in Cesena, Italy.\nThe Bonci Theatre was built on the site of the old \"Spada Theatre\" starting in August 1843 on a design by the architect Vincenzo Ghinelli and was opened on 15 August 1846.\n\nIt distinguished itself immediately with the best dramatic and lyric opera productions, a fact confirmed by the presence of leading performers of the period. It was dedicated to the great tenor from Cesena Alessandro Bonci after his performances of 1904 and 1927.\n\nThe theater is a member of the Italian route section of the European Route of Historic Theatres.\n\n"}
{"id": "672391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672391", "title": "Teatro di San Carlo", "text": "Teatro di San Carlo\n\nThe Real Teatro di San Carlo (\"Royal Theatre of Saint Charles\"), its original name under the Bourbon monarchy but known today as simply the Teatro di San Carlo, is an opera house in Naples, Italy. It is located adjacent to the central Piazza del Plebiscito, and connected to the Royal Palace.\n\nIt is the oldest continuously active venue for public opera in the world, opening in 1737, decades before both the Milan's La Scala and Venice's La Fenice theatres.\n\nThe opera season runs from late January to May, with the ballet season taking place from April to early June. The house once had a seating capacity of 3,285, but has now been reduced to 1,386 seats. Given its size, structure and antiquity, it was the model for theatres that were later built in Europe.\n\nCommissioned by the Bourbon King Charles III of Naples (\"Carlo III\" in Italian), Charles wanted to endow Naples with a new and larger theatre to replace the old, dilapidated, and too-small Teatro San Bartolomeo of 1621, which had served the city well, especially after Scarlatti had moved there in 1682 and had begun to create an important opera centre which existed well into the 1700s.\n\nThus, the San Carlo was inaugurated on 4 November 1737, the king's name day, with the performance of the opera Domenico Sarro's \"Achille in Sciro\", which was based on the 1736 libretto by Metastasio which had been set to music that year by Antonio Caldara. As was customary, the role of Achilles was played by a woman, Vittoria Tesi, called \"Moretta\"; the opera also featured soprano Anna Peruzzi, called \"the Parrucchierina\" and tenor Angelo Amorevoli. Sarro also conducted the orchestra in two ballets as intermezzi, created by Gaetano Grossatesta, with scenes designed by Pietro Righini. The first seasons highlighted the royal preference for dance numbers, and featured among the performers famous castrati.\n\nIn the late 18th century, Christoph Willibald Gluck was called to Naples by the impresario Tufarelli to direct his 1752 \"Clemenza di Tito\" at the theatre, and Johann Christian Bach in 1761-62 brought two operas, \"Catone in Utica\" and \"Alessandro nell'Indie\".\n\nThe new opera house was designed by Giovanni Antonio Medrano, a military architect, and Angelo Carasale, the former director of the San Bartolomeo. The horseshoe-shaped auditorium is the oldest in the world. It was built at a cost of 75,000 ducats. The hall was 28.6 meters long and 22.5 meters wide, with 184 boxes, including those of proscenium, arranged in six orders, plus a royal box capable of accommodating ten people, for a total of 1,379 seats. Including standing room, the theatre could hold over 3,000 people. The fastidious composer and violinist Louis Spohr reviewed the size and acoustic properties of this opera house very thoroughly on 15 February 1817 and concluded that:\n\nMuch admired for its architecture, its gold decorations, and the sumptuous blue upholstery (blue and gold being the official colours of the Bourbons), the San Carlo was now the biggest opera house in the world. In relation to the power of the existing Bourbon Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, Beauvert notes that the design of the house, with its 184 boxes lacking any curtains was so that \"no one could avoid the scrutiny by the sovereign\" who had his private access from the Royal Palace.\n\nIn 1809 Domenico Barbaia was appointed manager of the royal opera houses in Naples and remained in charge until 1841. He soon established a reputation for innovative and dazzling productions, which attracted both the public and leading singers to the opera house.\n\nOn 13 February 1816 a fire broke out during a dress-rehearsal for a ballet performance and quickly spread to destroy a part of building.\n\nOn the orders of King Ferdinand IV, another Bourbon monarch and son of Charles III, who used the services of Antonio Niccolini, Barbaia was able to rebuild the opera house within ten months. It was rebuilt as a traditional horseshoe-shaped auditorium with 1,444 seats, and\na proscenium, 33.5m wide and 30m high. The stage was 34.5m deep. Niccolini embellished in the inner of the bas-relief depicting \"Time and the Hour\". \nThe central frescoed ceiling painting of \"Apollo presenting to Minerva the greatest poets of the world\" was painted by Antonio, Giuseppe e Giovanni Cammarano.\n\nOn 12 January 1817, the rebuilt theatre was inaugurated with Johann Simon Mayr's \"Il sogno di Partenope\". Stendhal attended the second night of the inauguration and wrote: \"There is nothing in all Europe, I won’t say comparable to this theatre, but which gives the slightest idea of what it is like..., it dazzles the eyes, it enraptures the soul...\".\n\nIn 1844 the opera house was re-decorated under Niccolini, his son Fausto, and Francesco Maria dei Giudice. The main result was the change in appearance of the interior to the now-traditional red and gold.\n\nApart from the creation of the orchestra pit, suggested by Verdi in 1872, the installation of electricity in 1890, the subsequent abolition of the central chandelier, and the construction of the new foyer and a new wing for dressing rooms, the theatre underwent no substantial changes until repair of the bombing damage in 1943.\n\nDuring World War II the opera house was damaged by bombs. Following the liberation of Naples in October 1943, Peter Francis of the Royal Artillery organized repairs to the damaged foyer and, three weeks later, reopened the building with a musical revue. With the building in a fit state for performances, more musicians and singers made themselves available and the first opera performance was held on 26 December 1943, a matinee presentation of Puccini's \"La bohème\". Francis stayed on for another two years, producing 30 operas.\n\nBy the start of the twenty-first century, the opera house was showing its age with outmoded stage machinery, inadequate visitor facilities, and lack of air conditioning. In response, the Campania regional government funded a €67 million renovation over six months in 2008 and six months in 2009 which included restoration of the décor and the creation of a new rehearsal hall. As noted in \"Gramophone\" magazine, the opera house reopened on 27 January 2010 with Mozart's \"La Clemenza di Tito\", the 254th anniversary of the composer's birth: \"The renovation work was completed last year under the direction of architect Elisabetta Fabbri and is intended to return Teatro San Carlo to its condition following Antonio Niccolini's rebuilding after the fire of 1816. The project...involved 300 workers day and night.\n\nAt the time, Neapolitan School of opera enjoyed great success all over Europe, not only in the field of opera buffa but also in that of opera seria. The Neapolitan school of opera composers included Feo, Porpora, Traetta, Piccinni, Vinci, Anfossi, Durante, Jommelli, Cimarosa, Paisiello, Zingarelli, and Gazzaniga. Naples became the capital of European music and even foreign composers considered the performance of their compositions at the San Carlo theatre as the goal of their career. These composers included Hasse (who later settled in Naples) Haydn, Johann Christian Bach and Gluck.\n\nSimilarly the most prominent singers performed and consolidated their fame at the San Carlo. These included Lucrezia Anguiari, called \"La Cocchetta\", the renowned castrati Giovanni Manzuoli, Caffarelli (Gaetano Majorano), Farinelli (Carlo Broschi), Gizziello (Gioacchino Conti) and Gian Battista Velluti, the last castrato. Caffarelli, Farinelli, and Gizziello were products of the local conservatories of Naples\n\nFrom 1815 to 1822, Gioachino Rossini was house composer and artistic director of the royal opera houses, including the San Carlo. During this period he wrote ten operas which were \"Elisabetta, regina d'Inghilterra\" (1815), \"La gazzetta\", \"Otello, ossia il Moro di Venezia\" (1816), \"Armida\" (1817), \"Mosè in Egitto\", \"Ricciardo e Zoraide\" (1818), \"Ermione\", \"Bianca e Falliero\", \"Eduardo e Cristina\", \"La donna del lago\" (1819), \"Maometto II\" (1820), and \"Zelmira\" (1822).\n\nRegular singers of the period included Manuel Garcia and his daughter Maria Malibran, Clorinda Corradi, Giuditta Pasta, Isabella Colbran, Giovanni Battista Rubini, Domenico Donzelli and the two great French rivals Adolphe Nourrit and Gilbert Duprez—the inventor of the C from the chest.\n\nAfter the composition of \"Zelmira\", Rossini left Naples with Colbran who had previously been the lover of Domenico Barbaia. The couple were married shortly thereafter.\n\nTo replace Rossini, Barbaja first signed up Giovanni Pacini and then another rising star of Italian opera, Gaetano Donizetti. As artistic director of the royal opera houses, Donizetti remained in Naples from 1822 until 1838, composing sixteen operas for the theatre, among which \"Maria Stuarda\" (1834), \"Roberto Devereux\" (1837), \"Poliuto\" (1838) and the famous \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" (1835), written for soprano Tacchinardi-Persiani and for tenor Duprez.\n\nVincenzo Bellini, Sicilian by birth, also staged his first work, \"Bianca e Fernando\", at the San Carlo.\n\nGiuseppe Verdi was also associated with the theatre. In 1841, his \"Oberto Conte di San Bonifacio\" was performed there and in 1845 he wrote his first opera for the theatre, \"Alzira\"; a second, \"Luisa Miller\", followed in 1849. His third should have been \"Gustavo III\", but the censor made such significant changes that it was never performed in that version nor under that title (until a re-created version was given in 2004). It was later performed in Rome with significant revisions to the plot and its location, while the title became \"Un ballo in maschera\".\n\nAmong the conductors and composers appointed by the Teatro San Carlo was the famous and eccentric French harpist and composer Nicolas-Charles Bochsa, who was accompanied by his lover, the English prima donna Anna Bishop, with whom he was touring the world. He conducted several operas (1844–1845) in the San Carlo with Anna Bishop as prima donna. She sang there 327 times in 24 operas.\n\nThe unification of Italy in 1861 lead to Naples losing its status as the musical center of Italy and the home of the country's leading opera house to La Scala as power and wealth moved northwards. By 1874 the fall in income from performances led to the closing of the opera house for a year. Its fortunes were able to recover due to the continued support in the latter half of the nineteenth century and into the twentieth century by Giacomo Puccini and other composers of verismo operas, such as Pietro Mascagni, Leoncavallo, Giordano, and Cilea, who staged their works here.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, the house created its own in-house orchestra under Giuseppe Martucci, which helped attract a number of respected conductors including Arturo Toscanini, Pietro Mascagni and composer Richard Strauss, whose influence expanded the opera house's repertoire.\n\nOne performer who did not appear in Naples from 1901 onward was Naples-born Enrico Caruso, who after being booed by a section of the audience during a performance of \"L'elisir d'amore\", vowed never to return.\n\nPrincipal conductors\nPrincipal guest conductor\nHonorary conductor\n\nNotes\nCited sources\n\nOther sources\n\n"}
{"id": "24035210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24035210", "title": "Theta Centaurids", "text": "Theta Centaurids\n\nTheta Centaurids is a weak meteor shower that occurs from January 23 to March 12. It is only visible from the Southern Hemisphere.\n\n\nTheta Centaurids is the northernmost of several meteor showers. The radiant is located west of Lupus. Theta Centaurids is best seen at five o’clock in the morning and eleven o’clock at night. This shower occurs as little as one day after Alpha Centaurids, a meteor shower around the same area. Another meteor shower nearby is the Omicron Centaurids shower. Theta Centaurids is considered a very fast meteor shower. Its range is -9, +40. It has 14:00 for a right ascension, and a declination of -41 (Right ascension and declination are like latitude and longitude for astronomy). This meteor shower badly needs a thorough scientific study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234706", "title": "Usury", "text": "Usury\n\nUsury () is, as defined today, the practice of making unethical or immoral monetary loans that unfairly enrich the lender. Originally, usury meant interest of any kind. A loan may be considered usurious because of excessive or abusive interest rates or other factors. Historically, in some Christian societies, and in many Islamic societies even today, charging any interest at all would be considered usury. Someone who practices usury can be called a \"usurer\", but a more common term in contemporary English is \"loan shark\".\n\nThe term may be used in a moral sense—condemning, taking advantage of others' misfortunes—or in a legal sense where interest rates may be regulated by law. Historically, some cultures (e.g., Christianity in much of Medieval Europe, and Islam in many parts of the world today) have regarded charging any interest for loans as sinful.\n\nSome of the earliest known condemnations of usury come from the Vedic texts of India. Similar condemnations are found in religious texts from Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam (the term is \"riba\" in Arabic and \"ribbit\" in Hebrew). At times, many nations from ancient Greece to ancient Rome have outlawed loans with any interest. Though the Roman Empire eventually allowed loans with carefully restricted interest rates, the Catholic Church in medieval Europe banned the charging of interest at any rate (as well as charging a fee for the use of money, such as at a bureau de change).\n\nBanking during the Roman Empire was different from modern banking. During the Principate, most banking activities were conducted by private individuals who operated as large banking firms do today. Anybody that had any available liquid assets and wished to lend it out could easily do so.\n\nThe annual rates of interest on loans varied in the range of 4–12 percent, but when the interest rate was higher, it typically was not 15–16 percent but either 24 percent or 48 percent. The apparent absence of intermediate rates suggests that the Romans may have had difficulty calculating the interest on anything other than mathematically convenient rates. They quoted them on a monthly basis, and the most common rates were multiples of twelve. Monthly rates tended to range from simple fractions to 3–4 percent, perhaps because lenders used Roman numerals.\n\nMoneylending during this period was largely a matter of private loans advanced to persons persistently in debt or temporarily so until harvest time. Mostly, it was undertaken by exceedingly rich men prepared to take on a high risk if the profit looked good; interest rates were fixed privately and were almost entirely unrestricted by law. Investment was always regarded as a matter of seeking personal profit, often on a large scale. Banking was of the small, back-street variety, run by the urban lower-middle class of petty shopkeepers. By the 3rd century, acute currency problems in the Empire drove such banking into decline. The rich who were in a position to take advantage of the situation became the moneylenders when the increasing tax demands in the last declining days of the Empire crippled and eventually destroyed the peasant class by reducing tenant-farmers to serfs. It was evident that usury meant exploitation of the poor.\n\nThe First Council of Nicaea, in 325, forbade clergy from engaging in usury (canon 17). At the time, usury was interest of any kind, and the canon forbade the clergy to lend money at interest rates even as low as 1 percent per year. Later ecumenical councils applied this regulation to the laity.\n\nLateran III decreed that persons who accepted interest on loans could receive neither the sacraments nor Christian burial. Pope Clement V made the belief in the right to usury a heresy in 1311, and abolished all secular legislation which allowed it. Pope Sixtus V condemned the practice of charging interest as \"detestable to God and man, damned by the sacred canons, and contrary to Christian charity.\"\n\nTheological historian John Noonan argues that \"the doctrine [of usury] was enunciated by popes, expressed by three ecumenical councils, proclaimed by bishops, and taught unanimously by theologians.\"\n\nCertain negative historical renditions of usury carry with them social connotations of perceived \"unjust\" or \"discriminatory\" lending practices. The historian Paul Johnson, comments:\n\nThe Hebrew Bible regulates interest taking. Interest can be charged to strangers but not between Hebrews.\n\nIsraelites were forbidden to charge interest on loans made to other Israelites, but allowed to charge interest on transactions with non-Israelites, as the latter were often amongst the Israelites for the purpose of business anyway; but in general, it was seen as advantageous to avoid getting into debt at all, to avoid being bound to someone else. Debt was to be avoided and not used to finance consumption, but only taken on when in need; however, the laws against usury were among many laws which the prophets condemn the people for breaking.\n\nJohnson contends that the Torah treats lending as philanthropy in a poor community whose aim was collective survival, but which is not obliged to be charitable towards outsiders.\n\nUsury (in the original sense of any interest) was at times denounced by a number of religious leaders and philosophers in the ancient world, including Plato, Aristotle, Cato, Cicero, Seneca, Aquinas, Muhammad, Jesus, Philo and Gautama Buddha.\nFor example, Cato said:\n\nInterest of any kind is forbidden in Islam. As such, specialized codes of banking have developed to cater to investors wishing to obey Qur'anic law. \"(See Islamic banking)\"\n\nAs the Jews were ostracized from most professions by local rulers, the Western churches and the guilds , they were pushed into marginal occupations considered socially inferior, such as tax and rent collecting and moneylending. Natural tensions between creditors and debtors were added to social, political, religious, and economic strains.\n\nIn England, the departing Crusaders were joined by crowds of debtors in the massacres of Jews at London and York in 1189–1190. In 1275, Edward I of England passed the Statute of the Jewry which made usury illegal and linked it to blasphemy, in order to seize the assets of the violators. Scores of English Jews were arrested, 300 were hanged and their property went to the Crown. In 1290, all Jews were to be expelled from England, allowed to take only what they could carry; the rest of their property became the Crown's. Usury was cited as the official reason for the Edict of Expulsion; however, not all Jews were expelled: it was easy to avoid expulsion by converting to Christianity. Many other crowned heads of Europe expelled the Jews, although again converts to Christianity were no longer considered Jewish (see the articles on marranos or crypto-Judaism).\n\nThe growth of the Lombard bankers and pawnbrokers, who moved from city to city, was along the pilgrim routes.\nIn the 16th century, short-term interest rates dropped dramatically (from around 20–30% p.a. to around 9–10% p.a.). This was caused by refined commercial techniques, increased capital availability, the Reformation, and other reasons. The lower rates weakened religious scruples about lending at interest, although the debate did not cease altogether.\n\nThe papal prohibition on usury meant that it was a sin to charge interest on a money loan. As set forth by Thomas Aquinas, the natural essence of money was as a measure of value or intermediary in exchange. The increase of money through usury violated this essence and according to the same Thomistic analysis, a just transaction was one characterized by an equality of exchange, one where each side received exactly his due. Interest on a loan, in excess of the principal, would violate the balance of an exchange between debtor and creditor and was therefore unjust.\n\nCharles Eisenstein has argued that pivotal change in the English-speaking world came with lawful rights to charge interest on lent money, particularly the 1545 Act, \"An Act Against Usurie\" (37 H. viii 9) of King Henry VIII of England.\n\nJews are forbidden from usury in dealing with fellow Jews, and this lending is to be considered tzedakah, or charity. However, there are permissions to charge interest on loans to non-Jews. This is outlined in the Jewish scriptures of the Torah, which Christians hold as part of the Old Testament, and other books of the Tanakh. From the Jewish Publication Society's 1917 Tanakh, with Christian verse numbers, where different, in parentheses:\n\nExodus 22:24 (25)—If thou lend money to any of My people, even to the poor with thee, thou shalt not be to him as a creditor; neither shall ye lay upon him interest.\nLeviticus 25:36— Take thou no interest of him or increase; but fear thy God; that thy brother may live with thee.\nLeviticus 25:37— Thou shalt not give him thy money upon interest, nor give him thy victuals for increase.\nDeuteronomy 23:20 (19)—Thou shalt not lend upon interest to thy brother: interest of money, interest of victuals, interest of any thing that is lent upon interest.\nDeuteronomy 23:21 (20)—Unto a foreigner thou mayest lend upon interest; but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon interest; that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all that thou puttest thy hand unto, in the land whither thou goest in to possess it.\nEzekiel 18:17—that hath withdrawn his hand from the poor, that hath not received interest nor increase, hath executed Mine ordinances, hath walked in My statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live.\nPsalm 15:5—He that putteth not out his money on interest, nor taketh a bribe against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.Several historical rulings in Jewish law have mitigated the allowances for usury toward non-Jews. For instance, the 15th-century commentator Rabbi Isaac Abrabanel specified that the rubric for allowing interest does not apply to Christians or Muslims, because their faith systems have a common ethical basis originating from Judaism. The medieval commentator Rabbi David Kimchi extended this principle to non-Jews who show consideration for Jews, saying they should be treated with the same consideration when they borrow.\n\nThe following quotations are English translations from the Qur'an:\n\nThose who charge usury are in the same position as those controlled by the devil's influence. This is because they claim that usury is the same as commerce. However, God permits commerce, and prohibits usury. Thus, whoever heeds this commandment from his Lord, and refrains from usury, he may keep his past earnings, and his judgment rests with God. As for those who persist in usury, they incur Hell, wherein they abide forever (\"Al-Baqarah 2:275\")\nGod condemns usury, and blesses charities. God dislikes every sinning disbeliever. Those who believe and do good works and establish worship and pay the poor-due, their reward is with their Lord and there shall no fear come upon them neither shall they grieve. O you who believe, you shall observe God and refrain from all kinds of usury, if you are believers. If you do not, then expect a war from God and His messenger. But if you repent, you may keep your capitals, without inflicting injustice, or incurring injustice. If the debtor is unable to pay, wait for a better time. If you give up the loan as a charity, it would be better for you, if you only knew. (\"Al-Baqarah 2:276-280\")\nO you who believe, you shall not take usury, compounded over and over. Observe God, that you may succeed. (\"Al-'Imran 3:130\")\nAnd for practicing usury, which was forbidden, and for consuming the people's money illicitly. We have prepared for the disbelievers among them painful retribution. (\"Al-Nisa 4:161\")\nThe usury that is practiced to increase some people's wealth, does not gain anything at God. But if people give to charity, seeking God's pleasure, these are the ones who receive their reward many fold. (\"Ar-Rum 30:39\")\nThe attitude of Muhammad to usury is articulated in his Last Sermon\n\nO People, just as you regard this month, this day, this city as Sacred, so regard the life and property of every Muslim as a sacred trust. Return the goods entrusted to you to their rightful owners. Hurt no one so that no one may hurt you. Remember that you will indeed meet your LORD, and that HE will indeed reckon your deeds. ALLAH has forbidden you to take usury (interest), therefore all interest obligation shall henceforth be waived. Your capital, however, is yours to keep. You will neither inflict nor suffer any inequity. Allah has Judged that there shall be no interest and that all the interest due to Abbas ibn 'Abd'al Muttalib (Prophet's uncle) shall henceforth be waived...\n\nThe first of the scholastic Christian theologians, Saint Anselm of Canterbury, led the shift in thought that labeled charging interest the same as theft. Previously usury had been seen as a lack of charity.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas, the leading scholastic theologian of the Roman Catholic Church, argued charging of interest is wrong because it amounts to \"double charging\", charging for both the thing and the use of the thing. Aquinas said this would be morally wrong in the same way as if one sold a bottle of wine, charged for the bottle of wine, and then charged for the person using the wine to actually drink it. Similarly, one cannot charge for a piece of cake and for the eating of the piece of cake. Yet this, said Aquinas, is what usury does. Money is a medium of exchange, and is used up when it is spent. To charge for the money and for its use (by spending) is therefore to charge for the money twice. It is also to sell time since the usurer charges, in effect, for the time that the money is in the hands of the borrower. Time, however, is not a commodity that anyone can charge. In condemning usury Aquinas was much influenced by the recently rediscovered philosophical writings of Aristotle and his desire to assimilate Greek philosophy with Christian theology. Aquinas argued that in the case of usury, as in other aspects of Christian revelation, Christian doctrine is reinforced by Aristotelian natural law rationalism. Aristotle's argument is that interest is unnatural, since money, as a sterile element, cannot naturally reproduce itself. Thus, usury conflicts with natural law just as it offends Christian revelation: see Thought of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nOutlawing usury did not prevent investment, but stipulated that in order for the investor to share in the profit he must share the risk. In short he must be a joint-venturer. Simply to invest the money and expect it to be returned regardless of the success of the venture was to make money simply by having money and not by taking any risk or by doing any work or by any effort or sacrifice at all, which is usury. St Thomas quotes Aristotle as saying that \"to live by usury is exceedingly unnatural\". Islam likewise condemns usury but allowed commerce (Al-Baqarah 2:275) - an alternative that suggests investment and sharing of profit and loss instead of sharing only profit through interests. Judaism condemns usury towards Jews, but allows it towards non-Jews. (Deut 23:19-20) St Thomas allows, however, charges for actual services provided. Thus a banker or credit-lender could charge for such actual work or effort as he did carry out e.g. any fair administrative charges. The Catholic Church, in a decree of the Fifth Council of the Lateran, expressly allowed such charges in respect of credit-unions run for the benefit of the poor known as \"montes pietatis\".\n\nIn the 13th century Cardinal Hostiensis enumerated thirteen situations in which charging interest was not immoral. The most important of these was \"lucrum cessans\" (profits given up) which allowed for the lender to charge interest \"to compensate him for profit foregone in investing the money himself.\" This idea is very similar to opportunity cost. Many scholastic thinkers who argued for a ban on interest charges also argued for the legitimacy of \"lucrum cessans\" profits (e.g. Pierre Jean Olivi and St. Bernardino of Siena). However, Hostiensis' exceptions, including for \"lucrum cessans\", were never accepted as official by the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has always condemned usury, but in modern times, with the rise of capitalism and the disestablishment of the Catholic Church in majority Catholic countries, this prohibition on usury has not been enforced.\n\nPope Benedict XIV's encyclical \"Vix Pervenit\" gives the reasons why usury is sinful:\nThe nature of the sin called usury has its proper place and origin in a loan contract… [which] demands, by its very nature, that one return to another only as much as he has received. The sin rests on the fact that sometimes the creditor desires more than he has given…, but any gain which exceeds the amount he gave is illicit and usurious.<br><br>One cannot condone the sin of usury by arguing that the gain is not great or excessive, but rather moderate or small; neither can it be condoned by arguing that the borrower is rich; nor even by arguing that the money borrowed is not left idle, but is spent usefully…\n\nIn \"The Divine Comedy\" Dante places the usurers in the inner ring of the seventh circle of hell.\n\nInterest on loans, and the contrasting views on the morality of that practice held by Jews and Christians, is central to the plot of Shakespeare's play \"The Merchant of Venice\". Antonio is the merchant of the title, a Christian, who is forced by circumstance to borrow money from Shylock, a Jew. Shylock customarily charges interest on loans, seeing it as good business, while Antonio does not, viewing it as morally wrong. When Antonio defaults on his loan, Shylock famously demands the agreed upon penalty-a measured quantity of muscle from Antonio's chest. This is the source of the phrase \"a pound of flesh\" often used to describe the dear price of a loan or business transaction. Shakespeare's play is a vivid portrait of the competing views of loans and use of interest, as well as the cultural strife between Jews and Christians that overlaps it. \n\nBy the 18th century, usury was more often treated as a metaphor than a crime in itself, so Jeremy Bentham's \"Defense of Usury\" was not as shocking as it would have appeared two centuries earlier.\n\nIn Honoré de Balzac's 1830 novel \"Gobseck\", the title character, who is a usurer, is described as both \"petty and great—a miser and a philosopher...\" The character Daniel Quilp in \"The Old Curiosity Shop\" by Charles Dickens is a usurer.\n\nIn the early 20th century Ezra Pound's anti-usury poetry was not primarily based on the moral injustice of interest payments but on the fact that excess capital was no longer devoted to artistic patronage, as it could now be used for capitalist business investment.\n\n\"When money is lent on a contract to receive not only the principal sum again, but also an increase by way of compensation for the use, the increase is called \"interest\" by those who \"think\" it lawful, and \"usury\" by those who do not.\" (William Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\").\n\n\"Usury laws\" are state laws that specify the maximum legal interest rate at which loans can be made. In the United States, the primary legal power to regulate usury rests primarily with the states. Each U.S. state has its own statute that dictates how much interest can be charged before it is considered usurious or unlawful.\n\nIf a lender charges above the lawful interest rate, a court will not allow the lender to sue to recover the unlawfully high interest, and some states will apply all payments made on the debt to the principal balance. In some states, such as New York), usurious loans are voided \"ab initio\".\n\nThe making of usurious loans is often called loan sharking. That term is sometimes also applied to the practice of making consumer loans without a license in jurisdictions that requires lenders to be licensed.\n\nOn a federal level, Congress has never attempted to federally regulate interest rates on purely private transactions, but on the basis of past U.S. Supreme Court decisions, arguably the U.S. Congress might have the power to do so under the interstate commerce clause of Article I of the Constitution.\n\nCongress imposed a federal criminal penalty for unlawful interest rates through the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO Statute), and its definition of \"unlawful debt\", which makes it a potential federal felony to lend money at an interest rate more than twice the local state usury rate and then try to collect that debt.\n\nIt is a federal offense to use violence or threats to collect usurious interest (or any other sort).\n\nSeparate federal rules apply to most banks. The U.S. Supreme Court held unanimously in the 1978 case, \"Marquette Nat. Bank of Minneapolis v. First of Omaha Service Corp.\", that the National Banking Act of 1863 allowed nationally chartered banks to charge the legal rate of interest in their state regardless of the borrower's state of residence.\n\nIn 1980, Congress passed the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act. Among the Act's provisions, it exempted federally chartered savings banks, installment plan sellers and chartered loan companies from state usury limits. Combined with the \"Marquette\" decision that applied to National Banks, this effectively overrode all state and local usury laws. The 1968 Truth in Lending Act does not regulate rates, except for some mortgages, but requires uniform or standardized disclosure of costs and charges.\n\nIn the 1996 \"Smiley v. Citibank\" case, the Supreme Court further limited states' power to regulate credit card fees and extended the reach of the \"Marquette\" decision. The court held that the word \"interest\" used in the 1863 banking law included fees and, therefore, states could not regulate fees.\n\nSome members of Congress have tried to create a federal usury statute that would limit the maximum allowable interest rate, but the measures have not progressed. In July 2010, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, was signed into law by President Obama. The act provides for a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to regulate some credit practices but has no interest rate limit.\n\nState law in Texas also includes a provision for contracting for, charging, or receiving charges exceeding twice the amount authorized (A/K/A \"double usury\"). A person who violates this provision is liable to the obligor as an additional penalty for all principal or principal balance, as well as interest or time price differential. A person who is liable is also liable for reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the obligor. \n\nCanada's Criminal Code limits the interest rate to 60% per year.\nThe law is broadly written and Canada's courts have often intervened to remove ambiguity.\n\nJapan has various laws restricting interest rates. Under civil law, the maximum interest rate is between 15% and 20% per year depending upon the principal amount (larger amounts having a lower maximum rate). Interest in excess of 20% is subject to criminal penalties (the criminal law maximum was 29.2% until it was lowered by legislation in 2010). Default interest on late payments may be charged at up to 1.46 times the ordinary maximum (i.e., 21.9% to 29.2%), while pawn shops may charge interest of up to 9% per month (i.e., 108% per year, however, if the loan extends more than the normal short-term pawn shop loan, the 9% per month rate compounded can make the annual rate in excess of 180%, before then most of these transaction would result in any goods pawned being forfeited).\n\nIn a partnership or joint venture where money is lent, the creditor only provides the capital yet is guaranteed a fixed amount of profit. The debtor, however, puts in time and effort, but is made to bear the risk of loss. Muslim scholars argue that such practice is unjust. As an alternative to usury, Islam strongly encourages charity and direct investment in which the creditor shares whatever profit or loss the business may incur (in modern terms, this amounts to an equity stake in the business).\n\nA non-recourse loan is secured by the value of property (usually real estate) owned by the debtor. However, unlike other loans, which oblige the debtor to repay the amount borrowed, a non-recourse loan is fully satisfied merely by the transfer of the property to the creditor, even if the property has declined in value and is worth less than the amount borrowed. When such a loan is created, the creditor bears the risk that the property will decline sharply in value (in which case the creditor is repaid with property worth less than the amount borrowed), and the debtor does not bear the risk of decrease in property value (because the debtor is guaranteed the right to use the property, regardless of value, to satisfy the debt.)\n\nThe JAK members bank is a usury-free saving and loaning system.\n\nGrowth of the Internet internationally has enabled both business micro-lending through sites such as Kickstarter as well as through global micro-lending charities where lenders make small sums of money available on zero-interest terms. Persons lending money to on-line micro-lending charity Kiva for example do not get paid any interest, although the end users to whom the loans are made may be charged interest by Kiva's partners in the country where the loan is used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17631381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17631381", "title": "Vale of Glamorgan Festival", "text": "Vale of Glamorgan Festival\n\nThe Vale of Glamorgan Festival is a contemporary music festival based in and around the county of Vale of Glamorgan, Wales and held annually during May (formerly September). The festival was founded in 1969 by Welsh composer John Metcalf, who is the Artistic Director to this day.\n\nAfter initially being a generic classical music festival, the Vale of Glamorgan Festival re-defined its artistic vision in 1992 to become a \"festival of living composers\". Since then it has gained a reputation as one of the most adventurous and unique in Great Britain. In recognition of this position, the Vale of Glamorgan Festival received the Prudential Award in 1994. The Festival’s Artistic Director received one of four inaugural Creative Wales Ambassador Awards from the Arts Council of Wales in 2009.\n\nHighlights include festivals devoted to the music of the Baltic States (1996), Austria (1998) and Australia (2001). The 2002 festival featured a widely acclaimed tour to Britain by the Finnish Radio Chamber Choir. 2005 brought a mix of music, visual art, storytelling and food, in a festival with interwoven themes of Japan and the work of women composers.\n\nThe 2013 event, held at the St Donats Arts Centre and Cardiff's Hoddinott Hall, was favourably reviewed by \"The Guardian\", highlighting composer Sebastian Currier as the outstanding performance.\n\nComposers John Tavener and Tarik O'Regan form the focus of the 2014 Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "46372151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46372151", "title": "W Series (championship)", "text": "W Series (championship)\n\nW Series is a forthcoming third-tier single-seater racing championship which aims to encourage greater female participation in motorsport.\n\nThe W Series was publicly launched on 10 October 2018. It was created in response to the lack of female drivers progressing to the highest levels of motorsport, particularly Formula 1. \n\nThe series has the backing of a number of prominent members of the motorsport community, including former F1 driver David Coulthard and engineer Adrian Newey.\n\n“Many sports in which women and men compete equally also run segregated events purely to increase the numbers of women who participate,” said chief executive Catherine Bond Muir in the launch announcement. “Until now, motor racing has been the only sport in which there were no separate series for women. Of all the many thousands of people involved in the technical side of our sport across the globe, only a handful are women. The last woman to start a Formula 1 Grand Prix was Lella Lombardi more than 40 years ago, and there has never been a female Formula 1 Grand Prix race winner, let alone a world champion. Our mission is to change all of that.”\n\nThe inaugural W Series Championship will be free to enter and will offer a total prize fund of $1.5 million, with the series champion receiving a top prize fund of $500,000. \n\nWith an anticipated field of 18-20 drivers, it is not yet clear how the remainder of the fund will be divided amongst the drivers. The drivers competing in the series will be not be require to bring any sponsorship to fund their drive. \n\nThe inaugural W Series season will commence in the spring of 2019 and run on the support programme of the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters. Races will be organised by the British Racing and Sports Car Club (BRSCC).\n\nOn October 12, 2018 it was confirmed that the inaugural six-round W Series will begin in May 2019, supporting the DTM at Hockenheim, Zolder, Misano, Norisring, Assen and Brands Hatch. \n\nThe W Series has faced criticism since it was publicly announced, with opponents to the series highlighting fears that the category will serve to segregate female racers rather than promote their inclusion in established series.\n\nBritish Indycar driver Pippa Mann responded to the series’ announcement on Twitter, saying “What a sad day for motorsport. Those with funding to help female racers are choosing to segregate them as opposed to supporting them. I am deeply disappointed to see such a historic step backwards take place in my life time.” \n\nMann’s views on segregation were echoed by Charlie Martin who stated “This series is founded on segregation, and while it may create opportunities for some female drivers, it sends a clear message that segregation is acceptable. We don’t discriminate in sport based on race, so it is particularly jarring that we feel it is acceptable to do so based on gender in 2018. As racers, we want to compete again the best drivers – regardless of age, race, sexual orientation or gender – and prove we are the best at what we do.” \n\nFormer Formula E and ex-Sauber F1 Test Driver Simona de Silvestro has suggested that the $1.5 million prize fund would have been better invested in a scholarship system to support the development of talent across a wider range of motorsport disciplines. “If there’s really that much money going into the series, there are a few girls that have been pretty competitive in junior series. It seems like everyone is just struggling to get the shot. If you look at a Red Bull affiliation or a Mercedes affiliation, somehow these kids always get into the best teams and then they’re winning. I think, personally, it would have been better to do something like the Red Bull programme and make sure some girls get an opportunity on a really good team.” \n\nThe W Series will feature mechanically identical cars based on the recently launched Tatuus T-318, homologated by the FIA for use in Formula 3 competition, and powered by Autotecnica Motori-tuned 1.8-litre turbocharged engines and equipped with a halo cockpit safety device.\n\nChassis construction: Carbon-fibre monocoque\n\nEngine displacement: 1.8L (110 cu in) DOHC inline-4\n\nGearbox: Sadev 6-speed paddleshift gearbox + 1 reverse\n\nWeight: 565 kg (1,246 lb)\n\nPower output: 270 hp (201 kW)\n\nFuel: TBA\n\nFuel capacity: 45.5 litres (12 US gallons)\n\nFuel delivery: Direct fuel injection\n\nAspiration: Turbocharged\n\nWidth: 1,850 mm (73 in)\n\nWheelbase: 2,000 mm (79 in)\n\nSteering: Power-assisted rack-and-pinion\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16874601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16874601", "title": "Winter Garden Theatre (1850)", "text": "Winter Garden Theatre (1850)\n\nThe first theatre in New York City to bear the name The Winter Garden Theatre had a brief but important seventeen-year history (beginning in 1850) as one of New York's premier showcases for a wide range of theatrical fare, from Variety shows to extravagant productions of the works of Shakespeare. Initially known as Tripler's Hall or Metropolitan Hall, it burned down in 1854 and was rebuilt as The New York Theatre. Although it burned to the ground several times, it rose from the ashes under different managers, bearing various names, to become known as one of the most important theatres in New York history.\n\nSome of the leading actors and theatre managers of the 19th century worked at The Winter Garden Theatre, from Jenny Lind and Laura Keene to Dion Boucicault and Edwin Booth. One of the most significant and politically influential productions in American theatre history took place on a single night at The Winter Garden Theatre on November 25, 1864, when three sons of one of America's great tragedians, Junius Brutus Booth, namely Junius Brutus Booth, Jr., Edwin Booth, and John Wilkes Booth staged a benefit performance of Shakespeare's \"Julius Caesar\" to raise funds to build a statue of Shakespeare in Central Park; four months later John Wilkes would assassinate Abraham Lincoln in Washington D.C. as he cried out the historic words of Brutus in ancient Rome. Throughout its seventeen-year history, The Winter Garden Theatre played a significant role in the history of the American theatre.\n\nThe theatre was originally planned in 1850 for the first engagement of the famous singer from Sweden, Jenny Lind, known as the \"Swedish Nightingale\". Located at 667 Broadway, New York, across from Bond Street just south of Amity Street (today's West Third Street), the new theatre was to be \"one of the largest musical halls in the world,\" boasting one of the largest stages in New York.\nDelays in construction meant that the theatre wasn't finished in time for Lind's first show. She arrived to great fanfare and a reported gathering of over 40,000 (all arranged by her manager, P. T. Barnum), but without the theatre being built for her; instead, Miss Lind opened at New York City's Castle Garden. The theatre that was to have opened with \"the name of Jenny Lind [that] would attract attention all over the country\", was instead later opened and was christened Tripler Hall, thereafter playing numerous minstrel shows, an entertainment then quite fashionable on the American stage.\n\nThere were a few notable exceptions to these theatrical diversions, demonstrating that Tripler Hall had a more legitimate reputation during this period. In December 1850 an important ceremonial meeting was attended by thousands of Freemasons of New York City at Tripler Hall, of which it was written: \"the event was regarded and still is regarded [1899] as a landmark in the history of Freemasonry in the history of New York.\" In February 1852 a memorial service was held at Tripler Hall for the renowned American novelist James Fenimore Cooper, presided over by the noted statesman Daniel Webster, with a eulogies said by Washington Irving, and William Cullen Bryant. That same year William Thackeray concluded a national tour with a lecture at Tripler Hall.\n\nThe theatre went through several different managers during this period, each manager naming the theatre as he or she pleased. When the theatre was used for the American Art-Union Prizes Distribution, a report in \"The Illustrated London News\" gave an interesting description of the interior of Tripler Hall:\n\n\"Never - not even on the nights of the \"Nightingale\" - has the capacity of Tripler Hall been more fully booked than the evening appointed for the distribution of the Art Union prices. The immense floor (30 feet wider than Kester Hall), the aisles, the galleries before the stage, and beside the doors, were crowded to excess.\"\n\nOn May 15, 1855, the theatre passed to new management with a musical by John and Morris Barnett called \"Monsieur Jacques\", and was renamed Metropolitan Hall, and managed by John Lafarge, owner of the famed Lafarge House which adjoined the theatre.\n\nOn December 27, 1855, the actress and manager Laura Keene reopened the theatre as Laura Keene's Varieties with \"Old Heads and Young Hearts.\"\n\nHere the leading female impresario of New York produced an eclectic form of entertainment which she would perfect in subsequent productions such as the musical \"Seven Sisters\" five years later.\n\nA rare etching of the interior of the theatre at this time depicts a production by Laura Keene in her theatre; From the point of view of the stage, it depicts what is probably the production of a classical text, with two figures in historical costumes standing downstage close to the footlights. This etching, from the actors' point of view, gives a rare glimpse into theatrical production on the American stage in the pre-Civil War era.\nDespite the success of the theatre under the management of Laura Keene, the Panic of 1857 bankrupted the theatre and it was forced to be closed once again.\n\nThis house was reopened Sept. 8, 1856 as Burton's New Theatre, managed by William Evans Burton, with \"The Rivals.\" In 1858, Joseph Jefferson performed in the burlesque \"Mazeppa\" by F. A. Brady in which he was drawn across the stage atop a Crandall horse.\n\nDuring the summer of 1859, the daring actor–playwright–manager Dion Boucicault, called \"the most conspicuous English dramatist of the 19th century\", tried his hand at management, took over the theatre, and gave the theatre its final name of The Winter Garden Theatre with the opening of his original burlesque \"Chamooni III\" on October 19, 1859. The theatre was aptly named The Winter Garden because Boucicault remodeled the theatre extensively, surprisingly cutting the auditorium in half and installing \"artificial tropical plants after a Parisian prototype.\" Boucicault effectively turned the theatre into a \"winter garden\" in the fall of the year. Among Boucicault's stable of first-rung actors were Joseph Jefferson, Agnes Robertson, and Mrs. John Wood. Boucicault's dramatization of Charles Dickens's Christmas story \"Cricket on the Hearth\" was his opening production, starring Jefferson as Caleb Plummer and Robertson as Dot; this immensely popular production eventually toured, as one critic has said, to \"every possible playhouse in English-speaking America.\"\n\nThat winter, on December 5 of 1859, Boucicault premiered one of his most popular - and controversial - melodramas \"The Octoroon\", subtitled \"Life in Louisiana\", which he had adapted from the novel \"The Quadroon\" by Thomas Mayne Reid. \"The Octoroon\", dealing with people of mixed white and African heritage, caused nothing short of a sensation, to see on the stage a drama that provoked discussions about race and politics. About this new phenomenon, \"The New York Times\" wrote that it had become \"the great dramatic \"sensation\" of the season\":\n\nThe newly named Winter Garden Theatre eventually became home to a series of musical extravaganzas and burlesques: \"Cinderella\" with music by Charles Koppitz and a text by Charles Dawson Shanley on September 9, 1861, \"The Wizard's Tempest\" by Charles Gayler, on June 9, 1862, and \"King Cotton\" by Charles Chamberlain on June 21, 1862.\n\nOn February 21, 1863, Edwin Booth took on the management of the Winter Garden Theatre (together with his brother-in-law, John Sleeper Clarke) with the intention of shifting the focus from musicals and burlesques to classical dramas. This enterprise included a toga-clad, one-night production of \"Julius Caesar\" on the evening of November 25, 1864, Evacuation Day, played by Edwin and his brothers, John Wilkes Booth and Junius Brutus Booth, Jr..\n\nThe goal of staging \"Julius Caesar\" for just one night was to raise funds for the establishment of a statue of William Shakespeare designed by John Quincy Adams Ward in the relatively new Central Park on the northern outskirts (then) of Manhattan. Tickets went for sale for a (then) astounding price of five dollars. Considering the way history was to unfold, it is curious that it was Edwin Booth who played the role of Brutus, assassin of Julius Caesar, and the role of Marc Antony was played by John Wilkes Booth, while \"lean and hungry\" Cassius was given to the heavier built Junius Brutus Booth, Jr..\n\nIn the handbill promoting the production (right), it stated that there would appear, for one night only, \"The Three Sons of the Great Booth.\" The three Booth brothers were then listed, from oldest to youngest, Junius, Edwin, and John, and beneath this, the Latin phrase that left no doubt that the entire production was dedicated to their father, the great tragedian Junius Brutus Booth: Filii Patri Digno Digniores.\nAs their mother watched on from a box on the aisle, the three Booth brothers reenacted the tragedy of \"Julius Caesar\" before an audience in The Winter Garden Theatre that was \"packed to the rafters.\" During the performance the clanging of fire bells could be heard from the streets of New York, as confederate sympathizers during the ongoing American Civil War tried to burn the city to the ground, which included fires set in the Lafarge House, which abutted the rear of The Winter Garden Theatre. About a half-hour into the performance, during the first scene of Act Two, when Brutus was pacing in his orchard, contemplating his pending assassination of Caesar, the clang and clatter of horse-drawn fire engines could be heard from the street outside. It seemed that there was a fire next door in the Lafarge House which threatened to engulf The Winter Garden Theatre. Before panic could consume the audience, Edwin stepped to the footlights to calm the audience.\n\nThe fire at the Lafarge House that almost spread to The Winter Garden Theatre had been set by sympathizers to the cause of the Confederacy with the intention of burning New York to the ground during these, the last months of the Civil War. At the Lafarge House, someone had set fires in the front parlor and had emptied a bottle of phosphorus on the furniture throughout a room on the third floor.\n\nIn describing this \"diabolical plot to burn the City of New York,\" which \"The New York Times\" called \"one of the most fiendish and inhuman acts known in modern times,\" it was reported under a banner heading:\n\nThe city was saved, as was The Winter Garden Theatre.\n\nThe production of \"Julius Caesar\" proceeded. The production was the first – and only – time that the three sons of one of America's great tragedians, Junius Brutus Booth, performed together on the same stage. The production raised $3,500 for the building of the statue of Shakespeare in Central Park, which stands there today.\n\nThe following night, on November 26, 1864, Booth played the lead role in what became known as the “100 nights \"Hamlet\"\", a record which stood for fifty-six years.\n\nThe \"Hamlet\" of Edwin Booth is well documented in reviews and diaries of those who saw the production. One review, appearing in \"Harper's\" shortly after the run of \"the hundred nights \"Hamlet\"\" summarized what Edwin Booth had accomplished during this important portrayal - a production which, perhaps more than any other single production in American stage history, solidified one of the great roles in dramatic history with a single actor. As a critic from the era then wrote: \"A really fine actor is as uncommon as a really great dramatic poet. Yet what Garrick was in Richard III or Edmund Kean in Shylock, we are sure Edwin Booth is in Hamlet.\"\n\nBooth followed his \"Hamlet\" marathon on March 23, 1865, with a series of what he called \"Grand Revivals\": a series of classical dramas sumptuously produced at the Winter Garden that began with a highly acclaimed production of \"Othello\", with Booth in the title role.\n\nFinally, in February 1866, after his return to the stage after a self-imposed retirement due to the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by his brother John, Booth played his acclaimed \"Richelieu\", followed in January 1867 by a spectacular production of \"Merchant of Venice\" that was considered one of the finest productions of that play during the 19th century.\n\nOn Saturday, March 23, 1867, a fire broke out under the stage which eventually burned the Winter Garden Theatre to the ground.\n\nRather than rebuild the theatre once again, Booth decided to erect his own theatre twenty blocks uptown on newly fashionable West Twenty-Third Street on the corner of Sixth Avenue, to be called Booth's Theatre.\n\nThe site was then occupied by the Grand Central Hotel, and is today the location for the New York University School of Law's Mercer Street Residence.\n\n"}
{"id": "58940381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940381", "title": "World War II bomb disposal in Europe", "text": "World War II bomb disposal in Europe\n\nThe US Army Air Force and Royal Air Force dropped 2.7 million tons of bombs on Europe during World War II. Every year, an estimated 2,000 tons of World War II munitions are found in Germany, at times requiring the evacuation of tens of thousands of residents from their homes. In Berlin alone, 1.8 million ordnances have been defused since 1947. Buried bombs, as well as mortars, land mines and grenades, are often found during construction work or other excavations, or by farmers tilling the land.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30857361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857361", "title": "X-15 Flight 3-65-97", "text": "X-15 Flight 3-65-97\n\nX-15 Flight 3-65-97, also known as X-15 Flight 191, was a test flight of the North American X-15 experimental aircraft. It took place on November 15, 1967, and was piloted by Michael J. Adams. It ended in tragedy when the aircraft broke apart minutes after launch due to technical difficulties, killing the pilot and destroying the plane.\n\nAdams' seventh X-15 flight took place on November 15, 1967, in the number three aircraft. At 10:30 in the morning on November 15, the X-15-3 dropped away from underneath the wing of NB-52B mothership at over Delamar Dry Lake.\n\nWhile in powered flight, an electrical disturbance distracted Adams and slightly degraded the control of the aircraft; having adequate backup controls, Adams continued. At 10:33 he reached a peak altitude of . In the NASA 1 control room, mission controller Pete Knight monitored the mission with a team of engineers.\n\nAs the X-15 climbed, Adams began a planned wing-rocking (rolling) maneuver so an on-board camera could scan the horizon. At the conclusion of the wing-rocking portion of the climb, the X-15 had begun a slow drift in heading; 40 seconds later, when the aircraft had reached its maximum altitude, it was off heading by 15 degrees to the left. As Adams came over the top, the drift briefly halted as the aircraft's nose yawed 15 degrees back to the correct attitude. Then the drift to the left began again; within 30 seconds, Adams' descending flight path was at right angles to the attitude of the aircraft. At , while descending into the rapidly increasing density of the atmosphere, the X-15 entered a spin.\n\nIn the NASA 1 control room, there was no way to monitor the heading of the aircraft, so the situation was unknown to the engineers monitoring the flight. Normal conversation continued between Knight and Adams, with Knight advising Adams that he was \"a little bit high\", but in \"real good shape\". Adams radioed that the aircraft \"[seemed] squirrelly\", and moments later repeatedly told Knight that he had entered a spin. The ground controllers sought to get the X-15 straightened out, but there was no recommended spin recovery technique for the X-15, and engineers knew nothing about the aircraft's supersonic spin tendencies. The chase pilots, realizing that the X-15 would never make Rogers Dry Lake, headed for the emergency lakes, Ballarat and Cuddeback, in case Adams attempted an emergency landing.\n\nAdams held the X-15's controls against the spin, using both the flight controls and the reaction control jets in the nose and wings. He managed to recover from the spin at and went into an inverted dive at an angle between 40 and 45 degrees. In theory, Adams was in a good position to roll upright, pull out of the dive and set up a landing. However, due to high gain in the adaptive control system, the X-15 went into a limit-cycle with rapid pitching motion of increasing severity, still in a dive at per minute. As the X-15 neared , it was diving at and experiencing more than vertically, and laterally.\n\nThe aircraft broke up northeast of the town of Johannesburg 10 minutes and 35 seconds after launch. An Air Force pilot, who was filling in for another chase pilot, spotted the main wreckage northwest of Cuddeback Lake. The aircraft was destroyed, and Adams was killed.\n\nNASA and the Air Force convened an accident board. Chaired by NASA's Donald R. Bellman, the board took two months to prepare its report. Ground parties scoured the countryside looking for wreckage, specifically the film from the cockpit camera. The weekend after the accident, an unofficial NASA Dryden Flight Research Center search party found the camera, but could not find the film cartridge. FRC engineer Victor W. Horton organized a search and on November 29, during the first pass over the area, Willard E. Dives found the cassette.\n\nThe accident board found that the cockpit instrumentation had been functioning properly, and concluded that Adams had lost control of the X-15 as a result of a combination of distraction, misinterpretation of his instrumentation display, and possible vertigo. The electrical disturbance early in the flight degraded the overall effectiveness of the aircraft's control system and further added to pilot workload.\n\nThe board made two major recommendations: install a telemetered heading indicator in the control room, visible to the flight controller; and medically screen X-15 pilot candidates for labyrinth (vertigo) sensitivity. As a result of the X-15's crash, the FRC added a ground-based \"8 ball\" attitude indicator in the control room to furnish mission controllers with real time pitch, roll, yaw, heading, angle of attack, and side slip information.\n\nA Mike Adams memorial was created by Eagle Scout John Bodylski at the crash site.\nAdams' name appears on the Space Mirror Memorial.\n\n\n"}
