{"id": "48286905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48286905", "title": "Abu Hajal Muslim ibn Awsaja", "text": "Abu Hajal Muslim ibn Awsaja\n\nAbu Hajal Muslim ibn Awsaja () was a companion of Islamic Prophet Muhammad. He assisted Muslim ibn Aqeel in Kufa. Then he joined Husayn ibn Ali army with his family. He was killed in battle of Karbala.\n\nHe is Muslim son of Awsaja son of Sa'd son of Tha'laba son of Dudan son of Asad son of Khuzayma al-Asadi. His Kunya is Abu Hajal. He was a companion of Husayn ibn Ali. Muslim ibn Awsaja and Habib ibn Madhahir both were from the tribe of Banu Asad.\n\nMulim ibn Awsaja supported Husayn ibn Ali’s ambassador, Muslim ibn Aqeel, in Kufa with weaponry and tried to take oath of allegiance for Husayn ibn Ali. \nThe spy of Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad, Ma'qil, found the safe house of Muslim ibn Aqeel through Muslim ibn Awsaja. Consequently, Hani ibn Urwa who sheltered Muslim ibn Aqeel in his house was arrested. Then Muslim ibn Aqeel to organizing an army chose Muslim ibn Awsaja as commander of Banu Asad and Madh'hij and some other commanders. Soon after Hani ibn Urwa and Muslim ibn Aqeel were killed by Ubayd Allah ibn Ziyad, and Muslim ibn Awsaja hided in a safe house for a while. Afterward he joined Husayn ibn Ali army with his family in Karbala.\n\nAt Tasu'a night, Husayn ibn Ali told his soldiers:\nYou are allowed to leave Karbala and your promises and oath of allegiance have served well so far, you are not obligated to stay for the battle. \nThen, some companions proclaimed their allegiance and loyalty to Husayn ibn Ali over again. After the descendants of Banu Hashim, Mulim ibn Awsaja was the first one who said:Oh, Abu Abd-Allah! We would never leave you alone. How it is possible to bring excuses to Allah? O, by Allah, never! We will never leave you alone; I will never give up; I will slay the enemies with my spear and sword until it drops on the ground; then I stone them. By Allah, I would never leave you alone until I fulfill my duties to Allah and defend the descendants of Prophet Muhammad. O, by Allah, if I am perished, I would reborn, and then if I am burnt and turned into ashes, I would reborn; and if it happens seventy times I would reborn and fight for you until I am martyred for you. I would never leave you as I know I will be perished once. Consequently, eternal prosperity and dignity would be mine.\n\nHe repeatedly expressed this motto in the battle of Karbala:\nIf you desire to know me, I am brave as a lion; my lineage goes back to Banu Asad. If you treat me with tyranny, you are strayed from the right path, and you are guilty of ingratitude toward Allah.\nIt should be noted that Asad means lion.\n\nMuslim ibn Awsaja was the first one who was killed in the battle of Karbala before Amr ibn Qartah. He was about 70 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "15589320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15589320", "title": "Afghan (Australia)", "text": "Afghan (Australia)\n\nThe \"Afghans\" or \"Ghans\" were camel caravanners who worked in Outback Australia from the 1860s to the 1930s. They included Pashtun, Punjabi, Baloch and Sindhi men from the region between the southern Hindu Kush in Afghanistan and the Indus River in what is now Pakistan, as well as others from Kashmir, Rajasthan, Egypt, Persia and Turkey. Besides providing vital support to exploration and settlement of the arid interior of the country, these cameleers played a major role in establishing Islam in Australia, building the country's first mosque at Marree in South Australia.\n\nThe first Afghan cameleers arrived in Melbourne in June 1860, when three men arrived with a shipment of 24 camels for the Burke and Wills expedition. Afghans without camels are reported to have reached Australia as early as 1838. Before the building of railways and the widespread adoption of motor vehicles, camels were the primary means of bulk transport in the Outback, where the climate was too harsh for horses and other beasts of burden. After their use was superseded by modern transport, some cameleers released their camels into the wild, and a large population of feral camels remains from this time. From 1850-1900, Afghani camel handlers played an important part in opening up Central Australia, helping in building of telegraph and railway lines. They also helped the growth of Muslims in Australia before 1850.\n\nEven though the Afghans' help was greatly appreciated they were also subject to discrimination because of their religion and appearance, and because of the competition they provided to European bullock teamsters. Many of those European competitors were also cameleers and in 1903 a European camel train proprietor of Wilcannia replaced all of his Afghan camel drivers with Europeans. \n\nThe passenger train which travels between Adelaide and Darwin is known as \"The Ghan\" (formerly \"The Afghan Express\") as a reference to the service the Afghans provided to the areas through which the train travels. The total number of Afghans to settle in Australia was approximately 3,000, with over 2,000 arriving between 1870 and 1900.\n\nAt Marree, an important junction of the camel trade, the Afghan cameleers built the earliest mosque in Australia in 1861, but this subsequently fell into disuse and was demolished. Over time as some members of the Afghan community prospered through trade and camel breeding, they contributed towards the building of the oldest permanent mosque in Australia, in Adelaide in 1888–89, as well as the Perth mosque, which dates from 1905.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844057", "title": "Alma the Younger", "text": "Alma the Younger\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Alma, the son of Alma () was a Nephite prophet often referred to as \"Alma the Younger\" to distinguish him from his father, who is often referred to as \"Alma the Elder\". These appellations, \"the Younger\" and \"the Elder\", are not used in the Book of Mormon; they are distinctions made by scholars, useful because both individuals were prominent during the same time period and filled a similar cultural and religious role. Alma is the namesake of the Book of Alma.\n\nThere are many similarities in both plot and in language between the Alma the Younger's conversion story and the story of Saul of Tarsus in the Bible.\n\nAlma the Younger lived in Zarahemla during the end of the reign of the Nephite King Mosiah. It is believed that he was born in 126 BC. As a young man, he, the four sons of Mosiah, and others wanted to destroy the church and actively persecuted its members. After they were visited personally by an angel and rebuked for their actions, Alma fell into an unconscious state where for three days and three nights he lay unable to move until he felt within that he had been forgiven of his sins. He and those who persecuted church members with him abdicated their role as persecutors and became followers of Christ.\n\nAlma the Younger subsequently became the first elected chief judge of the Nephites as well as their religious leader. He observed that the Nephites of the church were becoming increasingly wicked, proud, disdainful of outsiders and neglectful toward the poor and needy.(Alma 4:11-12) When the \"unbelievers\" began to follow their example, Alma feared the entire people were on the path to self-destruction.(Alma 4:11) He resigned his post as chief judge and began traveling from city to city to preach to the Nephites. He began in Zarahemla, where his efforts were successful. A thorough purge of the church leadership and membership took place, with those former insiders and leaders who refused to relinquish their pride being \"rejected, and their names blotted out\".(Alma 6:3).\n\nAlma moved on to the cities of Gideon and Melek, where his call to humility was also well received. From Melek he traveled three days journey north to Ammonihah, whose inhabitants proved much more hardened than those of the previous three cities.\n\nIn Ammonihah the people were very wicked. They considered themselves superior to outsiders, especially the Lamanites, and gloried in the strength of their city, which they considered indestructible. According to Alma chapter 9, Satan held such control over them that they would not listen to Alma. While trying to speak to them he was abused and thrown out of the city. Commanded by an angel to return, Alma slipped back into the city through a different route from the south. There he met Amulek, a lapsed believer (Alma 10:5-6) of some social prominence who fed Alma and housed him for a time. In the city streets, the two of them joined up and preached to the people, where they were challenged by a lawyer named Zeezrom. After Amulek had silenced Zeezrom through his teaching and aroused his conscience, Alma took his turn, preaching to the people with similar results. When finished, Alma and Amulek were cast into prison and delivered by a miracle. A repentant Zeezrom eventually joined Alma in his missionary work.\n\nSeveral years later, Alma met up with a man named Korihor, whom the Book of Mormon describes as an anti-Christ. This Korihor tried to lead the Nephites astray. Alma confronted him, confounding his arguments and miraculously removing Korihor's power of speech. The stricken Korihor signaled acknowledgement that he had acted maliciously, knowing all along that he was wrong and bringing destruction upon others. He was reduced to begging and was eventually run down and killed in a city of Nephite dissenters called Zoramites.\n\nThese same Zoramites were found to practice things that perverted the ways of the Lord. This led Alma to extend his missionary work to these people. While among them, he was most successful with the poor.\n\nAlma's final instruction was to his sons, Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton. He gave each separate lessons, and finally gave the records of the church to Helaman. He then departed, in the 19th year of the reign of the judges (or 73 BC) as if to go to Melek, but was never heard from again. Both Mormon and Helaman believed that he was taken up like Moses of old, and buried by the Lord.\n\nThe Book of Mormon narrative describes several of Alma's notable descendants as shown in the following family tree:\n\n"}
{"id": "3907600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3907600", "title": "Asad ibn al-Furat", "text": "Asad ibn al-Furat\n\nAsad ibn al-Furat (; 759-828) was a jurist and theologian in Ifriqiya, who began the Muslim conquest of Sicily.\n\nHis family, originally from Harran in Mesopotamia, emigrated with him to Ifriqiya. Asad studied in Medina with Malik ibn Anas, the founder of the Malikite school, and in Kufa with a disciple of Abu Hanifa, the founder of the Hanafite tradition. He collected his views on religious law in the Asadiyya, which had great influence in Ifriqiya.\n\nAfter his return to Ifriqiya he became a judge in Kairouan, where he soon came into conflict with the Aghlabid Emir Ziyadat Allah I (817-838) after criticising his luxurious and impious lifestyle. In order to get rid of this unwelcome critic, Ziyadat appointed Asad the leader of an expedition to Byzantine Sicily. In 827 Asad landed with a force of Arabs in Sicily and following a defeat of Byzantine troops proceeded to besiege Syracuse. However, the city could not be taken and Asad soon died of plague.\n\nAsad was prominent in establishing the Malikite Madh'hab in Ifriqiya.\n\n"}
{"id": "334961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334961", "title": "Bicycle messenger", "text": "Bicycle messenger\n\nBicycle messengers (also known as bike or cycle couriers) are people who work for courier companies (also known as messenger companies) carrying and delivering items by bicycle. Bicycle messengers are most often found in the central business districts of metropolitan areas. Courier companies use bike messengers because bicycle travel is less subject to unexpected holdups in city traffic jams, and is not deterred by parking limitations, fees or fines in high density development that can hinder or prevent delivery by motor vehicle, thereby offering a predictable delivery time.\n\nAlmost immediately after the development of the pedal-driven velocipede in the 1860s, people began to use the bicycle for delivery purposes. David V. Herlihy's 2004 book on the early history of the bicycle contains several references to bicycle messengers working during the late 19th century, including a description of couriers employed by the Paris stock exchange in the 1870s. During the bicycle boom of the 1890s in the United States, Western Union employed a number of bicycle telegraph boys in New York City, San Francisco, and other large population centers.\n\nOne of the earliest recorded post-war American bicycle courier companies was founded by Carl Sparks, in San Francisco, in 1945. According to the San Francisco Bicycle Messenger Association, \"Sparkie's went on to become Aero, which was bought out in 1998 [and] later absorbed into CitySprint.\" By the late 1970s, there were well-established companies offering bicycle messenger services in many major cities in the U.S.\n\nIn Europe, the bicycle had fallen out of favour as a means of delivery in the third quarter of the 20th century. It was not until 1983 that bicycle messengers made their reappearance in Europe. London's \"On Yer Bike\" and \"Pedal-Pushers\" were pioneers of pedal over petrol, and the rest of the city's courier companies followed suit. By the late 1980s, cycle couriers were a common sight in central London and a British manufacturer named a range of mountain-bikes for them, the Muddy Fox 'Courier'. Entrepreneurs in continental Europe, some inspired by seeing couriers in the U.S. or in London, began to offer bicycle courier services in the late 1980s, and by 1993 there were sufficiently large numbers of bicycle couriers in Northern Europe and North America that over 400 attended the inaugural Cycle Messenger Championships in Berlin, Germany. Bicycle messengers have not become common in southern Europe, the heartland of world competitive cycling. There are very few bicycle couriers in Portugal, France, Spain, or Italy. Outside Europe and North America, there are now large bicycle messenger services in Japan, and also in New Zealand and Australia. More recently, several companies started offering bike messenger services in Central and South America, specifically in México City, México; San José, Costa Rica; Bogotá, Colombia; Buenos Aires, Argentina; Santiago, Chile; Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nMessengers carry a huge variety of items, from things that could not be sent by digital means (corporate gifts, original artwork, clothes for photo-shoots, original signed documents) to mundane items that could easily be emailed, albeit without the air of importance attached to an express courier delivery. Messengers deliver digital content on optical media or hard disks because, despite high speed broadband connections, companies find it easier to send a disc than to work out how to transmit larger amounts of data than an email account can handle. Legal documents, various financial instruments and sensitive information are routinely sent by courier, reflecting a distrust of digital cryptography.\n\nCommentators have claimed that technological innovation will significantly reduce the demand for same-day parcel delivery, predicting that the fax machine, and then the internet, would render the messenger business obsolete. There is still a demand for fast courier services but there is certainly some truth in the predictions. Reliable data specifically relating to bicycle messenger occupational statistics is hard to find: the U.S. Department of Labor statistics does not track bicycle messengers specifically, and does not include \"independent contractors\" in statistics referenced for this industry occupation, but reports indicate the business is shrinking.\n\nThe gradual acceptance of electronic filing by U.S. courts has had a negative effect on the market. In San Francisco, bike messengers report a smaller work force coupled with decreased earnings. In New York alone, the number of messengers dropped by approximately 1,000 between 1998 and 2008.\n\nThe conditions of employment of bicycle messengers vary from country to country, city to city and even company to company. Contracts governing the relationship between individual courier and company are subject as much to customary practice, as local ordinance. In some places messengers are independent contractors paid on commission and do not receive benefits such as health insurance. In other places they will be regular employees of the courier company enjoying all the benefits thereof.\n\nThe employment status of the bicycle messengers of one of the UK's biggest same-day courier services, CitySprint, was challenged by the GMB trade union in December 2007. The challenge arose after the firm terminated the contract of one of its riders. The GMB sought to establish that more than 1,500 CitySprint operatives currently classified as self-employed sub-contractors should be re-classified as employees.\n\nThe job is poorly paid relative to the risk and effort required. In 2002, a Harvard Medical School study of injury rates among Boston bicycle messengers determined that the rate of injury requiring time off work among the sample group was more than thirteen times the U.S. average, and more than three times higher than the next highest group, workers in the meat-packing industry. Bike messengers have been killed while working in the United States. Eight bicycle messengers are known to have been killed while working in London between 1989 and 2003. Because payment is made at piece rates, it is hard to get reliable figures for messenger income. A study published in 2006 stated that the average daily wage of London bicycle messengers was £65 a day, and that of bicycle messenger in Cardiff was £45. The UK legal minimum wage at that time was £5.52 an hour.\n\nIn most cities, there are no legal requirements beyond those applying to all cyclists. Some jurisdictions, though, require the licensing of courier bicycles. In Calgary, Alberta for example, metal license plates must be fixed to bicycles used for courier work. Vancouver, British Columbia additionally requires bicycle messengers to complete a test in order to obtain a license, and to carry an identification card.\n\nThe most essential piece of equipment for a bicycle messenger is a bicycle. Some large cities that employ significant numbers of bike messengers (e.g., New York City) have relatively flat terrain, and are especially conducive to the performance properties of fixed gear bicycles.\n\nBecause bicycle thefts are prevalent in many cities, a lock to secure the bike during deliveries is essential. U-locks are also popular. Messengers typically carry basic tools, weather-proof clothing and a street map.\n\nThe majority of messengers use a bag to carry deliveries and personal effects. Bags with a single strap that wraps diagonally across the chest (popularly known as messenger bag) are popular because they can be swung around the messenger's body to allow access without removing the bag. Clasps which can be adjusted with one hand (ideal for riding), clips, pockets and webbing loops on the strap for holding a cell phone or two-way radio and other equipment also feature on purpose-built messenger bags. Bags generally have large capacities (up to 50 liters or 3,000 cubic inches). Baskets and racks mounted on the bike are also used, and at least one messenger service (in New York City) equips its riders with specialized three-wheel cycles (sometimes known as cargo-trikes), with a large trunk in the rear. Many bicycle messengers also wear helmets and mount lights and fenders (mud guards) to their bicycles.\n\nMessengers communicate and are dispatched to assignments via hand-held communication devices including two-way radios, cell phones, and personal digital assistants. Many of the larger messenger services equip their riders with GPS tracking devices, for ease of location.\n\nMessengers have been used in fiction media as symbols of urban living, and have been the subject of novels, memoirs, feature films, television series, comic-books, and sociological studies. Mexican artist José Guadalupe Posada created a popular icon of a marijuana-smoking bicycle courier everyman in his 19th-century engravings.\n\nThe 1986 film \"Quicksilver\" featuring a bicycle messenger, is an early expression of the mythology of the messenger as daredevil stunt rider. Star Kevin Bacon rides a racing bike, a fixed gear bike and a trick bike with 1:1 gear ratio and zero-rake forks, to perform the stunts in the film. The 2000–2002 television series \"Dark Angel\" had the main character Max Guevara, played by Jessica Alba, as a bicycle messenger at a courier service named Jam Pony. The show took place in a post-apocalyptic Seattle where motorized transportation was costly and therefore couriers were more prevalent and bicycle messengers were seen as a prominent position.\nThe 2012 film \"Premium Rush\", starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt, is also set in the world of bike messengers. In the TV show \"Suits\", Patrick J. Adams often has flashback scenes to previous job as a bike messenger. The main character of the game inFAMOUS is also a bike messenger who possesses amazing skills in parkour and urban-exploration.\n\nNews media have made portrayals of messengers ranging from innocuous urban libertines to reckless, cliquish nihilists. The latter portrayal is often sparked by local incidents involving bike messengers in collisions with other road-users or run-ins with authority figures. These incidents also occasionally lead to proposals for, and dispute over, new ordinances and regulations on messengers and messengering.\n\nThe influence of bicycle messengers can be seen in urban fashion, most notably the popularity of single-strap messenger bags, which are a common accessory among people who do not ride a bicycle regularly. The rise in popularity of fixed-gear bicycles in the mid-2000s, complete with affectations such as spoke cards (gathered from \"alleycats\" typically), is attributed to bicycle messengers.\n\nSince 1993, Cycle Messenger World Championships, CMWCs, have taken place at national, continental and world levels. These events are held as much for fun and messenger networking as for competition. Bicycle messengers also take part in formal cycle competitions at all levels, and in all disciplines. Nelson Vails, silver medalist on the velodrome in the 1984 Olympics, worked as a bicycle messenger in New York City in the early 1980s. Ivonne Kraft, who competed in the 2004 Olympic cross country mountain bike race, is a multiple former Cycle Messenger World Champion, and worked as a bicycle messenger in Germany for a number of years.\n\n"}
{"id": "81425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81425", "title": "Brian Wilson", "text": "Brian Wilson\n\nBrian Douglas Wilson (born June 20, 1942) is an American musician, singer, songwriter, and record producer who co-founded the Beach Boys. After signing with Capitol Records in 1962, Wilson wrote or co-wrote more than two dozen Top 40 hits for the group. In addition to his lifelong struggles with mental illness, Wilson is known for his unorthodox approaches to pop composition and mastery of recording techniques. He is often referred to as a \"genius\" and is widely acknowledged as one of the most innovative and significant songwriters of the late 20th century.\n\nThe Beach Boys were formed by Wilson with his brothers Carl and Dennis, their cousin Mike Love, and friend Al Jardine. Brian, who grew up influenced by 1950s rock and roll and jazz-based vocal groups, originally functioned as the band's songwriter, producer, co-lead vocalist, bassist, keyboardist, and de facto leader. In 1965, he suffered a nervous breakdown and stopped touring with the group, which led to more personal work such as \"Pet Sounds\" (1966) and the unfinished \"Smile\". As his mental health deteriorated, his contributions to the band diminished, and over the next decade, he was reputed for his reclusive lifestyle and substance abuse. Following a court-ordered removal from the care of psychologist Eugene Landy, Wilson started receiving conventional medical treatment, and in the late 1990s, he began performing and recording consistently as a solo artist. He remains a member of the Beach Boys' corporation, Brother Records Inc.\n\nWilson was the first pop artist credited for writing, arranging, producing, and performing his own material. He is considered a major innovator in the field of music production, the principal originator of the California Sound, one of the first music producer auteurs, and the first rock producer to use the studio as its own instrument. The unusual creative control Capitol gave him over his own records effectively set a precedent that allowed other bands and artists to act as their own producers or co-producers. Wilson's success also led to a proliferation of like-minded California producers who helped supplant New York as the center of popular records. The zeitgeist of the early 1960s is commonly associated to his early songs, and he was a major influence on the retrospectively-termed \"sunshine pop\" and Flower Power music that proceeded.\n\nIn later years, Wilson became influential to the spirit of punk rock and was regarded as \"godfather\" to an era of indie musicians who were inspired by his melodic sensibilities, chamber pop orchestrations, and recording explorations. His honors include being inducted into the 1988 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and winning Grammy Awards for \"Brian Wilson Presents Smile\" (2004) and \"The Smile Sessions\" (2011). In lists published by \"Rolling Stone\", Wilson ranked 52 for the \"100 Greatest Singers of All Time\" in 2008 and 12 for the \"100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time\" in 2015. In 2012, music publication \"NME\" ranked Wilson number 8 in its \"50 Greatest Producers Ever\" list, elaborating \"few consider quite how groundbreaking Brian Wilson's studio techniques were in the mid-60s\". His life was dramatized in the 2014 biopic \"Love & Mercy\".\n\nBrian Douglas Wilson was born on June 20, 1942, at Centinela Hospital in Inglewood, California, the eldest son of Audree Neva (\"née\" Korthof) and Murry Wilson, a musician and machinist. His two younger brothers were Dennis and Carl. He has Dutch, English, German, Irish, and Swedish ancestry. When he was two, the family moved from Inglewood to 3701 West 119th Street in nearby Hawthorne, California. Speaking of Wilson's unusual musical abilities prior to his first birthday, his father said that, as a baby, he could repeat the melody from \"When the Caissons Go Rolling Along\" after only a few verses had been sung by the father. Murry Wilson said, \"He was very clever and quick. I just fell in love with him.\" At about age two, Wilson heard George Gershwin's \"Rhapsody in Blue\", which had an enormous emotional impact on him. A few years later, he was discovered to have diminished hearing in his right ear. The exact cause of this hearing loss is unclear, though theories range from him simply being born partially deaf to a blow to the head from his father, or a neighborhood bully, being to blame.\n\nWhile Wilson's father was ostensibly a reasonable provider, he is believed to have been frequently abusive. A minor musician and songwriter, Wilson's father encouraged his children in the music field in numerous ways. At an early age, Wilson was given six weeks of lessons on a \"toy accordion\" and, at seven and eight, sang solos in church with a choir behind him. At Hawthorne High School, Wilson was on the football team as a quarterback, played baseball and was a cross-country runner in his senior year. He sang with various students at school functions and with his family and friends at home, teaching his two brothers harmony parts that all three would then practice. He also played piano obsessively after school, deconstructing the harmonies of the Four Freshmen by listening to short segments of their songs on a phonograph, then working to recreate the blended sounds note by note on the keyboard. He received a Wollensak tape recorder on his 16th birthday, allowing him to experiment with recording songs and early group vocals.\n\nOne of Wilson's earliest public performances was at a fall arts program at his high school. He enlisted his cousin and frequent singing partner Mike Love, and to entice Carl into the group, named the newly formed membership \"Carl and the Passions.\" The performance featured tunes by Dion and the Belmonts and the Four Freshmen (\"It's a Blue World\"), the latter of which proved difficult for the ensemble. The event was notable for the impression which it made on another musician and classmate of Wilson's in the audience that night, Al Jardine. Jardine would join the three Wilson brothers and Mike Love a few years later in the Beach Boys.\n\nWilson enrolled at El Camino College in Los Angeles, majoring in psychology, in September 1960. He continued his music studies at the community college as well. At some point in 1961 he wrote his first all-original melody, loosely based on a Dion and the Belmonts version of \"When You Wish Upon a Star\". The song was eventually known as \"Surfer Girl\". Although an early demo of the song was recorded in February 1962 at World-Pacific Studios, it was not re-recorded and released until 1963, when it became a top-ten hit.\n\nWilson, his brothers Carl and Dennis, Mike Love and Al Jardine first appeared as a music group in the summer of 1961, initially under the name the Pendletones. After being prodded by Dennis to write a song about the local water-sports craze, Wilson and Mike Love together created what became the first single for the band, \"Surfin'\". Over Labor Day weekend 1961, Wilson took advantage of the fact that his parents were in Mexico City for several days, and the boys used the emergency money his parents had left to rent an amplifier, a microphone, and a stand-up bass for Jardine to play. After the boys rehearsed for two days in the Wilsons' music room, his parents returned home from their trip. Eventually impressed, Murry Wilson proclaimed himself the group's manager and the band embarked on serious rehearsals for a proper studio session.\n\nRecorded by Hite and Dorinda Morgan and released on the small Candix Records label, \"Surfin'\" became a top local hit in Los Angeles and reached number seventy-five on the national \"Billboard\" sales charts. Dennis later described the first time that his older brother heard their song on the radio, as the three Wilson brothers and David Marks drove in Wilson's 1957 Ford in the rain: \"Nothing will ever top the expression on Brian's face, ever ... \"that\" was the all-time moment.\" However, the Pendletones were no more. Without the band's knowledge or permission, Candix Records had changed their name to the Beach Boys. Wilson and his bandmates, following a set by Ike & Tina Turner, performed their first major live show at the Ritchie Valens Memorial Dance on New Year's Eve, 1961. Three days previously, Wilson's father had bought him an electric bass and amplifier. Wilson had learned to play the instrument in that short period of time, with Al Jardine moving to rhythm guitar. On stage, Wilson provided many of the lead vocals, and often harmonized with the group in falsetto.\n\nLooking for a follow-up single for their radio hit, Wilson and Mike Love wrote \"Surfin' Safari\", and attempts were made to record a usable take at World Pacific, including overdubs, on February 8, 1962, along with several other tunes including an early version of \"Surfer Girl\". Only a few days later, discouraged about the band's financial prospects, and objecting to adding some Chubby Checker songs to the Beach Boys live setlist, Al Jardine abruptly left the group, but rejoined shortly thereafter. When Candix Records ran into money problems and sold the Beach Boys' master recordings to another label, Wilson's father terminated the contract. As \"Surfin'\" faded from the charts, Wilson, who had forged a songwriting partnership with Gary Usher, created several new songs, including a car song, \"409\", that Usher helped them write. Wilson and the Beach Boys cut new tracks at Western Recorders including an updated \"Surfin' Safari\" and \"409\". These songs convinced Capitol Records to release the demos as a single; they became a double-sided national hit.\n\nRecording sessions for the band's first album took place in Capitol's basement studios in the famous tower building in August 1962, but early on Wilson lobbied for a different place to cut Beach Boy tracks. The large rooms were built to record the big orchestras and ensembles of the 1950s, not small rock groups. At Wilson's insistence, Capitol agreed to let the Beach Boys pay for their own outside recording sessions, to which Capitol would own all the rights, and in return the band would receive a higher royalty rate on their record sales. Additionally, during the taping of their first LP Wilson fought for, and won, the right to be in charge of the production – though this fact was not acknowledged with an album liner notes production credit.\n\nIn January 1963, the Beach Boys recorded their first top-ten (cresting at number three in the United States) single, \"Surfin' U.S.A.\", which began their long run of highly successful recording efforts at Hollywood's United Western Recorders on Sunset Boulevard. It was during the sessions for this single that Wilson made the production decision from that point on to use double tracking on the group's vocals, resulting in a deeper and more resonant sound. The \"Surfin' U.S.A.\" album was also a big hit in the United States, reaching number two on the national sales charts by early July 1963. The Beach Boys had become a top-rank recording and touring band.\n\nWilson was for the first time officially credited as the Beach Boys' producer on the \"Surfer Girl\" album, recorded in June and July 1963 and released that September. This LP reached number seven on the national charts, containing singles that were top 15 hits. Feeling that surfing songs had become limiting, Wilson decided to produce a set of largely car-oriented tunes for the Beach Boys' fourth album, \"Little Deuce Coupe\", which was released in October 1963, only three weeks after the \"Surfer Girl\" LP. The departure of guitarist David Marks from the band that month meant that Wilson was forced to resume touring with the Beach Boys, for a time reducing his availability in the recording studio.\n\nFor much of the decade, Wilson attempted to establish himself as a record producer by working with various artists. On July 20, 1963, \"Surf City\", which he co-wrote with Jan Berry of Jan and Dean, was his first composition to reach the top of the US charts. The resulting success pleased Wilson, but angered both Murry and Capitol Records. Murry went so far as to order his oldest son to sever any future collaborations with Jan and Dean. Wilson's other non-Beach Boy work in this period included tracks by the Castells, Donna Loren, Sharon Marie, the Timers, and the Survivors. The most notable group to which Wilson would attach himself in this era would be the Honeys, which Wilson intended as the female counterpart to the Beach Boys, and as an attempt to compete with Phil Spector-led girl groups such as the Crystals and the Ronettes. He continued juggling between recording with the Beach Boys and producing records for other artists, but with less success at the latter—except for Jan and Dean.\n\nThe Beach Boys' rigorous performing schedule increasingly burdened Wilson, and following a panic attack on board a flight from L.A. to Houston on December 23, 1964, he stopped performing live with the group in an effort to concentrate solely on songwriting and studio production. Wilson explained in 1971: \"I felt I had no choice. I was run down mentally and emotionally because I was running around, jumping on jets from one city to another on one-night stands, also producing, writing, arranging, singing, planning, teaching—to the point where I had no peace of mind and no chance to actually sit down and think or even rest.\" Glen Campbell was called in as his temporary stand-in for live performances, before Bruce Johnston replaced him. As thanks, Wilson \"rewarded\" Campbell by producing him with the single \"Guess I'm Dumb\".\n\nIt was during that December that Wilson was introduced to cannabis hesitantly by his friend Lorren Daro (formerly Loren Schwartz), an assistant at the William Morris Agency. Attracted by the drug's ability to alleviate stress and inspire creativity, Wilson completed the Beach Boys' forthcoming \"Today!\" album by late January 1965 and quickly began work on their next, \"Summer Days\". Sometime in April, Wilson experienced his first acid trip, which had a profound effect on his musical and spiritual conceptions. Again, Daro was hesitant to provide drugs to Wilson, which he did not feel he was ready for, but has recounted that his dosage was \"one hundred and twenty-five mics of pure Owsley,\" and that \"he had the full-on ego death. It was a beautiful thing.\" The music for \"California Girls\" came from this first LSD experience, a composition which would later be released as a #3 charting single. Wilson continued experimenting with psychotropics for the next few years, sometimes even during recording sessions. He became fixated on psychedelia, claiming to have coined a slang, \"psychedelicate,\" and foreseeing that \"psychedelic music will cover the face of the world and color the whole popular music scene.\" A week after his first LSD trip, Wilson began suffering from auditory hallucinations, which have persisted throughout his life.\n\nIn late 1965, Wilson began working on material for a new project, \"Pet Sounds\". He formed a temporary songwriting partnership with lyricist Tony Asher, who was suggested to Wilson by mutual friend Daro. Wilson, who had recorded the album's instrumentation with the Wrecking Crew, then assembled the Beach Boys to record vocal overdubs, following their return from a tour of Japan. Upon hearing what Wilson had created for the first time in 1965, the group, particularly Mike Love, was somewhat critical of their leader's music, and expressed their dissatisfaction. At this time, Wilson still had considerable control within the group and, according to Wilson, they eventually overcame their initial negative reaction, as his newly created music began to near completion. The album was released May 16, 1966, and, despite modest sales figures at the time, has since become widely critically acclaimed, often being cited among the all-time greatest albums. Although the record was issued under the group's name, \"Pet Sounds\" is arguably seen as a Brian Wilson solo album. Wilson even toyed with the idea by releasing \"Caroline, No\" as a solo single in March 1966, it reaching number 32 on the \"Billboard\" charts.\n\nDuring the \"Pet Sounds\" sessions, Wilson had been working on another song, which was held back from inclusion on the record as he felt that it was not sufficiently complete. The song \"Good Vibrations\" set a new standard for musicians and for what could be achieved in the recording studio. Recorded in multiple sessions and in numerous studios, the song eventually cost $50,000 () to record within a six-month period. In October 1966, it was released as a single, giving the Beach Boys their third US number-one hit after \"I Get Around\" and \"Help Me, Rhonda\". It sold over a million copies.\n\nSometime after \"Pet Sounds\" was released, the Beatles' press agent Derek Taylor started working as a publicist for the Beach Boys. He gradually became aware of Wilson's reputation as a \"genius\" among musician friends, a belief that wasn't widely held at the time. Motivated by Wilson's musical merits, Taylor responded with a campaign that would reestablish the band's outdated surfing image, and was the first to tout Wilson as a \"genius\". According to Van Dyke Parks, this was \"much to Brian's embarrassment\".\n\nBy the time of the universal success of \"Good Vibrations\", Wilson was underway with his next project, \"Smile\", which Wilson described as a \"teenage symphony to God.\" \"Good Vibrations\" had been recorded in modular style, with separately written sections individually tracked and spliced together, and Wilson's concept for the new album was more of the same, representing a departure from the standard live-taped performances typical of studio recordings at that time. Having been introduced to Van Dyke Parks at a garden party at Terry Melcher's home, Wilson liked Parks' \"visionary eloquence\" and began working with him in the fall of 1966. After Wilson famously installed a sandbox and tent in his living room, the pair collaborated closely on several \"Smile\" tracks. Conflict within the group and Wilson's own growing personal problems threw the project into terminal disarray. Originally scheduled for release in January 1967, the release date was continually pushed back until press officer Derek Taylor announced its cancellation in May 1967.\n\nBy 1967, Wilson's life was on the verge of a serious decline. Following the cancellation of \"Smile\", the Beach Boys relocated to a studio situated in the living room of Wilson's new mansion in Bel Air (once the home of Edgar Rice Burroughs), where the band would primarily record until 1972. This has been perceived by some commentators as \"the moment when the Beach Boys first started slipping from the vanguard to nostalgia.\" Throughout mid-to-late 1967, Wilson oversaw the production of only a few heavily orchestrated songs holding continuity with his \"Pet Sounds\" and \"Smile\" work, such as \"Can't Wait Too Long\" and \"Time to Get Alone\". Wilson's interest in the Beach Boys began to wane. Carl explained: \"When we did \"Wild Honey\", Brian asked me to get more involved in the recording end. He wanted a break. He was tired. He had been doing it all too long.\"\n\nStill psychologically overwhelmed by the cancellation of \"Smile\" and the imminent birth of his first child Carnie Wilson in 1968 amid the looming financial insolvency of the Beach Boys, Wilson's creative directorship within the band became increasingly tenuous; additionally, cocaine had begun to supplement Wilson's regular use of amphetamines, marijuana, and psychedelics. Shortly after abandoning an intricate arrangement of Kern and Hammerstein's \"Ol' Man River\" at the instigation of Mike Love, Wilson entered a psychiatric hospital for a brief period of time. Biographer Peter Ames Carlin has speculated that Wilson had self-admitted and may have been administered a number of treatments ranging from talking therapies to doses of Lithium and electroconvulsive therapy during this stay.\n\nIn his absence, 1969's \"20/20\" consisted substantially of key \"Smile\" outtakes (\"Cabinessence\" and \"Our Prayer\") along with the long-germinating \"Time to Get Alone\". The album's lead track, the Wilson/Love-authored \"Do It Again\", was an unabashed throwback to the band's earlier surf hits, and had been an international hit in the summer of 1968, reaching number 20 in the US charts and number 1 in the UK and Australia while also scoring well in other countries. During this phase, Wilson also collaborated with his father (credited under the pseudonym of Reggie Dunbar) on \"Break Away\", the band's final single for Capitol Records under their original contract; although relatively unsuccessful in the US (peaking at number 63 in \"Billboard\"), the song reached number 6 on the British singles chart.\n\nAt a press conference ostensibly convened to promote \"Break Away\" to the European media shortly thereafter, Wilson intimated that \"We owe everyone money. And if we don't pick ourselves off our backsides and have a hit record soon, we will be in worse trouble ... I've always said, 'Be honest with your fans.' I don't see why I should lie and say that everything is rosy when it's not.\" These incendiary remarks ultimately thwarted long-simmering contract negotiations with Deutsche Grammophon. Although Murry Wilson's sale of the Sea of Tunes publishing company (including the majority of Wilson's oeuvre) to A&M Records' publishing division for $700,000 at the band's commercial nadir in 1969 renewed the longstanding animus between father and son, the younger Wilson stood in for Mike Love during a 1970 Northwest tour when Love was convalescing from illness. He also resumed writing and recording with the Beach Boys at a brisk pace; seven of the twelve new songs on the 1970 album \"Sunflower\" were either written or co-written by Wilson. Nevertheless, the album (retrospectively appraised as \"perhaps the strongest album they released post-\"Pet Sounds\"\" by \"Pitchfork\") was a commercial failure in the US, peaking at number 151 during a four-week \"Billboard\" chart stay in October 1970. Following the termination of the Capitol contract in 1969, the band's new contract with then-au courant Reprise Records (brokered by Van Dyke Parks, employed as a multimedia executive at the company at the time) stipulated Wilson's proactive involvement with the band in all albums, a factor that would become hugely problematic for the band in the years to come.\n\nSometime in 1969, Wilson opened a short-lived health food store called The Radiant Radish. The store closed in 1971 due to unprofitable produce expenditures and Wilson's general lack of business acumen. Reports from this era detailed Wilson as \"increasingly withdrawn, brooding, hermitic ... and occasionally, he is to be seen in the back of some limousine, cruising around Hollywood, bleary and unshaven, huddled way tight into himself.\" This notion was contested by lyricist and close friend Stanley Shapiro. Nevertheless, Wilson's reputation suffered as a result of his purported eccentricities, and he quickly became known as a commercial has-been whom record labels feared. When Shapiro persuaded Wilson to rewrite and rerecord a number of Beach Boys songs in order to reclaim his legacy, he contacted fellow songwriter Tandyn Almer (whom Wilson would later characterize as his \"best friend\") for support. The trio then spent a month reworking cuts from the Beach Boys' \"Friends\" album. As Shapiro handed demo tapes to A&M Records executives, they found the product favorable before they learned of Wilson and Almer's involvement, and proceeded to veto the idea. Wilson commented in 1976:\n\nThroughout the late 1960s and early 1970s, Wilson amassed myriad home demo recordings which later became informally known as the \"Bedroom Tapes\". Most of these recordings remain unreleased and unheard by the public. Some of the material has been described as \"schizophrenia on tape,\" and \"intensely personal songs of gentle humanism and strange experimentation, which reflected on his then-fragile emotional state.\" Beach Boys archivist Alan Boyd observed: \"A lot of the music that Brian was creating during this period was full of syncopated exercises and counterpoints piled on top of jittery eighth-note clusters and loping shuffle grooves. You get hints of it earlier in things like the tags to 'California Girls,' 'Wouldn't It Be Nice' and all throughout \"Smile\", but it takes on an almost manic edge in the '70s.\" Wilson's daughter Wendy remembers, \"Where other people might take a run to release some stress, he would go to the piano and write a 5-minute song.\" Her sister Carnie has recounted: \"My memories of him are him wandering from room to room ... thinking about \"something\". I always wanted to know what he was thinking, you know? Who knows what he was thinking in his head? ... We got used to what the whole environment was. It was very musical; there was always a piano going. Either \"Rhapsody in Blue\" was playing, or ...\"Be My Baby\"—I mean—I woke up every morning to \"boom boom-boom pow! Boom boom-boom pow!\" Every day.\"\n\nWhile working at the Radiant Radish, Wilson met journalist and radio presenter Jack Rieley, who would manage the Beach Boys and act as Wilson's principal lyricist for the next few years. Wilson played and sang on much of the 1971 \"Surf's Up\" album—the band's highest American album chart placement (No. 29) since 1967—and wrote or co-wrote four of the album's ten songs, including the title track. However, only one fully formed original song from Wilson emerged during the album's nominal recording sessions, the dirge-like \"A Day in the Life of a Tree\". According to engineer Stephen Desper, the cumulatively deleterious effects of Wilson's cocaine and tobacco use began to affect his vocal register in earnest during the \"Surf's Up \"sessions.\n\nIn late 1971 and early 1972, he worked on an album for the American Spring, titled \"Spring\", a new collaboration between erstwhile Honeys Marilyn Wilson and Diane Rovell. He was closely involved in the home-based recordings with co-producer David Sandler and engineer Stephen Desper, and did significant work on more than half of the tracks. As with much of his work in the era, his contributions \"ebbed and flowed.\" According to Dan Peek of America, Wilson \"held court like a Mad King as [longtime friend] Danny Hutton scurried about like his court jester\" during the ascendant band's engagement at the Whisky a Go Go in February 1972. Concurrently, he contributed to three out of eight songs on Beach Boys' \"Carl and the Passions – \"So Tough\"\" (1972).\n\nLater that year, he reluctantly agreed to accompany the band to the Netherlands, where they based themselves to record \"Holland\". Although physically present, he often yielded to his vices (primarily hashish and hard cider) and rarely participated, confining himself to work on \"Funky Pretty\" (a collaboration with Mike Love and Jack Rieley); a one-line sung intro to Al Jardine's \"\"; and \"Mount Vernon and Fairway (A Fairy Tale)\", a narrative suite musically inspired by Randy Newman's \"Sail Away\" that was promptly rejected by the band. However, Carl Wilson ultimately capitulated and ensured that the suite would be released as a bonus EP with the album. When the album itself was rejected by Reprise, the song \"Sail On, Sailor\"—a collaboration with Van Dyke Parks dating from 1971 that had grown to encompass additional lyrical contributions solicited by Wilson at parties hosted by Hutton—was inserted at the instigation of Parks and released as the lead single. It promptly garnered a considerable amount of FM radio play, became a minor chart hit, and entered the band's live sets as a concert staple.\n\nIn 1973, Jan Berry (under the alias JAN) released the single \"Don't You Just Know It\", a duet featuring Wilson.\n\nWilson spent a great deal of the two years following his father's June 1973 death, secluded in the chauffeur's quarters of his home; sleeping, abusing alcohol, taking drugs (including heroin), overeating, and exhibiting self-destructive behavior. He attempted to drive his vehicle off a cliff, and at another time, demanded that he would be pushed into and buried in a grave that he had dug in his backyard. During this period, his voice deteriorated significantly as a result of his mass consumption of cocaine and incessant chain smoking. Wilson later said that he was preoccupied with \"[doing] drugs and hanging out with Danny Hutton\" (whose house became the center of Wilson's social life) during the mid-1970s. John Sebastian often showed up at Wilson's Bel Air home \"to jam\" and later recalled that \"it wasn't all grimness.\" Although increasingly reclusive during the day, Wilson spent many nights at Hutton's house fraternizing with Hollywood Vampire colleagues, such as Alice Cooper and Iggy Pop, who were mutually bemused by an extended Wilson-led singalong of the folk song \"Shortnin' Bread\"; other visitors of Hutton's home included Vampires Harry Nilsson, John Lennon, Ringo Starr, and Keith Moon. Micky Dolenz recalls taking LSD with Wilson, Lennon, and Nilsson, where Wilson \"played just one note on a piano over and over again\". On several occasions, Marilyn Wilson sent her friends to climb Hutton's fence and retrieve her husband.\n\nJimmy Webb reported Wilson's presence at an August 2, 1974 session for Nilsson's \"Salmon Falls\"; he kept in the back of the studio playing \"Da Doo Ron Ron\" haphazardly on a B3 organ. Later that month, he was photographed at Moon's 28th birthday party (held on August 28 at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel) wearing only his bathrobe. Sometime in 1974, Wilson interrupted a set by jazz musician Larry Coryell at The Troubadour by leaping onto stage and singing \"Be-Bop-A-Lula\", again wearing slippers and a bathrobe.\n\nDuring summer 1974, the Capitol Records-era greatest hits compilation \"Endless Summer\" reached number 1 on the \"Billboard\" charts, reaffirming the relevance of the Beach Boys in the popular imagination. However, recording sessions for a new album under the supervision of Wilson and James William Guercio at Caribou Ranch and the band's studio in Santa Monica that autumn yielded only a smattering of basic tracks, including a banjo-driven arrangement of \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\"; \"It's O.K.\", an uptempo collaboration with Mike Love; the ballad \"Good Timin'\"; and Dennis Wilson's \"River Song\". Eventually, Wilson diverted his attentions to \"Child of Winter\", a Christmas single co-written with Stephen Kalinich; released belatedly for the holiday market on December 23, it failed to chart.\n\nAlthough still under contract with Warner Brothers Records, Wilson signed a sideline production deal with Bruce Johnston and Terry Melcher's Equinox Records in early 1975. Together, they founded the loose-knit supergroup known as California Music, which involved them along with L.A. musicians Gary Usher, Curt Boettcher, and a few others. This contract was nullified by the Beach Boys' management, who perceived it as an attempt by Wilson to relieve the burden of his growing drug expenses, and it was demanded that Wilson focus his efforts on the Beach Boys, even though he strongly desired to escape from the group. The idea of California Music immediately disintegrated.\n\nMarilyn and the Wilson family were dismayed by Wilson's continued deterioration and were reluctant to payroll him as an active partner in the touring Beach Boys, an arrangement that had persisted for a decade. They enlisted the services of radical therapist Eugene Landy in October 1975. Landy diagnosed him as paranoid schizophrenic (a diagnosis later retracted), and the treatment prompted Wilson to become more stable and socially engaged, and his productivity increased again. The tagline \"Brian's Back!\" became a major promotional tool for the new Beach Boys album \"15 Big Ones\", released to coincide with their fifteenth anniversary as a band as a mixture of traditional pop covers with newly written original material. The record was released in the summer of 1976 to commercial acclaim and, despite lukewarm reviews, peaked at number 8 on the \"Billboard\" album chart. Wilson returned to regular stage appearances with the band, alternating between piano and bass, and made a solo appearance on \"Saturday Night Live\" in November 1976; to the chagrin of the other Beach Boys, producer Lorne Michaels stipulated an exclusive performance from Wilson.\n\nWilson's behavior during this time was reported by many to be strange and off-putting, and Landy's role was described as \"unethical\" and ostentatious. Oftentimes, Wilson would ask for drugs in mid-interview. During this period, Wilson was under constant surveillance by bodyguards, which he resented. \"Rolling Stone\" editor David Felton chronicled bizarre exchanges between Wilson and Landy in \"The Healing of Brother Brian\", a profile of the resurgent band published by the magazine in November 1976; these included a report of Landy's medical staff promising Wilson a cheeseburger in exchange for writing a new song.\n\nWilson expressed a fervent desire to leave the group and record a solo album in this period but could not, due to conflicts that it would create between him and the group, leading him to remark, \"Sometimes I feel like a commodity in a stock market.\" He was also firm in that he wanted to record another work on par with the achievement of \"Pet Sounds\". In April 1977, the all-original album by Wilson, \"Love You\", was released bearing the Beach Boys moniker, although the group's contributions were minimal. It was described by Wilson as an attempt to relieve himself from mental instability brought on by a period of inactivity. \"Love You\" has since been cited as an early work of synthpop. The album features playful lyrics (alternately invoking Johnny Carson, Phil Spector, and adolescent interests) and stark instrumentation (featuring Moog bass lines and gated reverb-drenched drum patterns reflective of contemporaneous work by David Bowie and Tony Visconti). Although \"Love You\" only reached number 53 on the \"Billboard\" chart, it was lauded as an artistic watershed by many critics, including punk rock lodestar Patti Smith (writing for \"Hit Parader\") and Robert Christgau of \"The Village Voice\".\n\nWilson was under Landy's care for fourteen months until December 1976, when the therapist was dismissed for a dispute on his monthly fee. Throughout the next several years, Wilson vacillated between periods of relative stability (frequently joining the touring band on piano, bass and vocals and writing or co-writing eight of the twelve tracks on 1978's poorly received \"M.I.U. Album\") and resurgences of his addictions. During this period, Wilson and his wife, Marilyn, amicably divorced in 1979 due to the strain of his erratic behavior on their family. He repeatedly checked in and out of hospitals and continued to be plagued by incessant mood swings. At one point, he wandered off alone for several days and was sighted at a gay bar playing piano for drinks. For a short period in 1978, he lived as a vagrant in Balboa Park, San Diego until police officers took him to Alvarado Hospital for alcohol poisoning. Wilson's role in the band, as well as the Beach Boys' commercial prospects, began to diminish once more. By 1982, he was immersed in debt, owing the government tens of thousands of dollars in back taxes.\n\nAfter Wilson overdosed on a combination of alcohol, cocaine, and other psychoactive drugs, he once again employed Landy. With this effort by Landy, a more radical program was undertaken to try to restore to Wilson's health. This involved removing him from the Beach Boys on November 5, 1982 at the behest of Carl Wilson, Mike Love, and Al Jardine, in addition to isolating him from his family and friends in Hawaii as well as putting him on a rigorous diet and health regimen. According to Carolyn Williams, Wilson refused to see Landy: \"They told him that the only way that he could be a Beach Boy again, and the only way they would release his 1982 tour disbursement money, was if he would agree to see Dr. Landy. Brian started yelling that he didn't like Dr. Landy and that [Landy] was charging him $20,000 a month the last time. He was willing to see anybody to get the weight off, but he didn't want to see Landy. And they said, 'Well, no, you have to see Dr. Landy. That's the only way.'\" Landy described the program that he accorded Wilson in \"The Handbook of Innovative Psychotherapies\":\n\nCoupled with long, extreme counseling sessions, this therapy was successful in bringing Wilson back to physical health, slimming down from to . As Wilson's recovery consolidated, he rejoined the Beach Boys for Live Aid in 1985 and participated in the recording of the Steve Levine-produced album \"The Beach Boys\". Wilson stopped working with the Beach Boys on a regular basis after the release of the album, largely due to the control that Landy exercised. Eventually, Landy's therapy technique created a Svengali-like environment for Wilson, controlling every movement in his life, including his musical direction. In the mid 1980s, Landy stated, \"I influence all of [Brian]'s thinking. I'm practically a member of the band ... [We're] partners in life.\" Wilson later responded to allegations with, \"People say that Dr. Landy runs my life, but the truth is, I'm in charge.\"\n\nBetween 1983 and 1986, Landy charged about $430,000 annually. When he requested more money, Carl Wilson was obliged to give away a quarter of Wilson's publishing royalties. In 1988, Wilson said that \"Dr. Landy doesn't like me to be in touch with my family too much. He thinks it's unhealthy.\" Landy responded to the charges that he exerted too much control on the songwriter: \"He's got a car phone in his car. If he wants to call somebody, he calls somebody... He can go anywhere, on his own, anytime he wants.\" Regarding Wilson's relationship to the Beach Boys at that time, Wilson added: \"Although we stay together as a group, as people we're a far cry from friends. One time we were doing an interview together, and the interviewer asked Carl what it was between him and me. He goes, 'Well, Brian and I don't have to talk to each other. We're just Beach Boys, but we don't need to be friends.' And that's true. Although, whenever I think about him, I feel rotten.\"\n\nWilson signed to a solo record deal with Sire Records label boss Seymour Stein and variously worked with Andy Paley, Russ Titelman and Landy's girlfriend as co-authors on the new material. Old friend and collaborator Gary Usher was a key participant in the early demo work for the album, though Landy later removed him from the project. After several years of genesis, Wilson released his debut solo album \"Brian Wilson\". His work may have been hampered by Landy's influence, since Landy insisted on controlling involvement in every aspect of Wilson's writing and recording and his lyrical influence is significant.\n\nDespite the critical success of his debut solo album, rumors abounded that Wilson had either suffered a stroke or had been permanently disabled due to excessive drug use. The actual problem was that Wilson, who had been prescribed massive amounts of psychotropic drugs by Landy's staff since 1983, had developed tardive dyskinesia, a neurological condition marked by involuntary, repetitive movements, that develops in about 20 percent of patients treated with anti-psychotic drugs for an extended period of time. During recording of the \"Brian Wilson\" album, engineering staff had observed what seemed to be \"every pharmaceutical on the face of the earth,\" referring to the medicine bag Landy was using to store Wilson's prescription drugs. Landy separated from Wilson in 1989, however, they remained business partners. Wilson's proposed second solo album under the direction of Landy, titled \"Sweet Insanity\", was rejected by Sire in 1990.\n\nAn ostensible memoir, \"\", was published in 1991. In the book, whose authorship is still debated, Wilson spoke about his troubled relationship with his abusive father Murry, his private disputes with the Beach Boys and his lost years of mental illness. Landy's illegal use of psychotropic drugs on Wilson, and his influence over Wilson's financial affairs, were legally ended by his brother Carl and other members of the Wilson family after a two-year-long conservatorship battle in Los Angeles. Landy's misconduct resulted in the loss of his license to practice in California, as well as a court-ordered removal and restraining order from Wilson.\n\nWilson released two albums simultaneously in 1995. The first was the soundtrack to Don Was's documentary \"\", which consisted of new versions of several Beach Boys and solo songs. The second, \"Orange Crate Art\", saw Wilson as lead vocalist on an album produced, arranged and written by Van Dyke Parks. \"I Just Wasn't Made for These Times\" includes Wilson performing for the first time with his now-adult daughters, Wendy and Carnie of the group Wilson Phillips and Van Dyke Parks. During the early 1990s, he also worked on some tracks with power pop band Jellyfish, which remain unreleased. Roger Manning has recounted an anecdote during these sessions involving Wilson falling asleep at the piano yet continuing to play. Later in the decade, Wilson and his daughters Carnie and Wendy would release an album together, titled \"The Wilsons\" (1997). Also, around this time, Wilson sang backup vocals on Belinda Carlisle's \"California\".\n\nHaving missed out on the Beach Boys' 27th studio album \"Summer in Paradise\", Wilson returned to the Beach Boys for sporadic recording sessions and live performances during the early to mid-1990s. Working with collaborators Andy Paley and Don Was, the sessions were reported to have been tenuous. It had also been discussed that Wilson and the Beach Boys would work with Sean O'Hagan of the High Llamas on a comeback album for Wilson and the Beach Boys. All projects collapsed, and instead, Wilson was involved with the 1996 Beach Boys album \"Stars and Stripes Vol. 1\": a group collaboration, backing country music artists singing lead vocals of Beach Boys' standards.\n\nIn 1998, he teamed with Chicago-based producer Joe Thomas for the album \"Imagination.\" Following this, he received extensive vocal coaching to improve his voice, learned to cope with his stage fright, and started to consistently perform live for the first time in decades. This resulted in Wilson successfully performing the entire \"Pet Sounds\" album live throughout the US, UK and Europe. In 1999, Wilson filed a suit against Thomas, seeking damages and a declaration which freed him to work on his next album without involvement from Thomas. The suit was made after Thomas allegedly began to raise his industry profile and wrongfully enrich himself through his association with Wilson. Thomas reciprocated with a suit citing that Melinda Wilson \"schemed against and manipulated\" him and Wilson. The case was settled out of court. Wilson's third solo album \"Gettin' In Over My Head\" (2004) featured collaborations with Elton John, Paul McCartney, Eric Clapton and brother Carl, who died of lung cancer in February 1998.\n\nWith his mental health on the mend, Wilson decided to revisit the aborted \"Smile\" project from 1967. Aided by musician and longtime fan Darian Sahanaja of Wondermints, and lyricist Van Dyke Parks, Wilson reimagined the session material into something that would work in a live context. His work was finally revealed in concert on February 20, 2004, 37 years after it was conceived, though he later stated that the finished product was substantially different from what was originally envisioned. Wilson debuted his 2004 interpretation of \"Smile\" at the Royal Festival Hall in London and subsequently toured the UK. Following the tour, \"Brian Wilson Presents Smile\" was recorded, and released in September 2004. The release hit number 13 on the \"Billboard\" chart. At the 47th Grammy Awards in 2005, Wilson won his first Grammy for the track \"\" as Best Rock Instrumental. In 2004, Wilson promoted \"Brian Wilson Presents Smile\" with a tour of Australia, New Zealand and Europe.\n\nIn February 2005, Wilson had a cameo in the television series \"Duck Dodgers in the 24½th Century\" as Daffy Duck's spiritual surfing adviser. On June 26, 2005, Wilson performed at Glastonbury Festival in England to critical success. On July 2, 2005, Wilson performed for the Live 8 concert in Berlin, Germany. In September 2005, Wilson arranged a charity drive to aid victims of Hurricane Katrina, wherein people who donated $100 or more would receive a personal phone call from Wilson. According to the website, over $250K was raised. In November 2005, former bandmate Mike Love sued Wilson over \"shamelessly misappropriating ... Love's songs, likeness, and the Beach Boys trademark, as well as the 'Smile' album itself\" in the promotion of \"Smile\". The lawsuit was ultimately dismissed on grounds that it was meritless.\n\nIn December 2005, Wilson released \"What I Really Want for Christmas\" for Arista Records. The release hit number 200 on the \"Billboard\" chart, though sales were modest. Wilson's remake of \"Deck the Halls\" became a surprise Top 10 Adult Contemporary hit. He appeared in the 2005 holiday episode of \"\", performing \"Deck the Halls\" for children with xeroderma pigmentosum (hypersensitivity to sunlight) at Walt Disney World Resort.\n\nTo celebrate the 40th anniversary of \"Pet Sounds\", Wilson embarked on a brief tour in November 2006. Beach Boy Al Jardine accompanied Wilson for the tour.\n\nWilson released \"That Lucky Old Sun\" in September 2008. The piece originally debuted in a series of September 2007 concerts at London's Royal Festival Hall, and in January 2008 at Sydney's State Theatre while headlining the Sydney Festival. Wilson described the piece as \"... consisting of five 'rounds', with interspersed spoken word.\" A series of US and UK concerts preceded its release. On September 30, 2008, Seattle's Light in the Attic Records released \"A World of Peace Must Come\", a collaboration between Wilson and Stephen Kalinich, originally recorded in 1969, but later lost in Kalinich's closet.\n\nAround this time, Wilson announced that he was developing another concept album, titled \"Pleasure Island: A Rock Fantasy\". Accordingly: \"It’s about some guys who took a hike, and they found a place called Pleasure Island. And they met all kinds of chicks, and they went on rides and — it’s just a concept. I haven’t developed it yet. I think people are going to love it — it could be the best thing I’ve ever done.\" The album has yet to surface, and for several years, Wilson has consistently maintained in interviews that he wishes his \"next album\" to be more rock-oriented.\n\nIn summer 2009, Wilson signed a two-record deal with Disney after he was approached to record an album of his interpretations of Gershwin songs, and to assess unfinished piano pieces by Gershwin for possible expansion into finished songs. After extensive evaluation of a vast body of Gershwin fragments, Wilson chose two to complete. The resulting album, \"Brian Wilson Reimagines Gershwin\", was released in August 2010 on Disney's Pearl label. \"Brian Wilson Reimagines Gershwin\" achieved Number 1 position on the \"Billboard\" Jazz Chart, and had sold 53,000 copies by August 2011. Wilson's second album for Disney was \"In the Key of Disney\", a collection of Disney film songs, which was released on October 25, 2011. Wilson contributed his revival of Buddy Holly's \"Listen to Me\" to the tribute album, \"\", released on September 6, 2011, on Verve Forecast. \"Rolling Stone\" praised Wilson's version as \"gorgeous,\" featuring \"... angelic harmonies and delicate instrumentation.\"\n\nThe official Beach Boys release of the original, partially completed \"Smile\" recordings was overseen by Wilson for the compilation, titled \"The Smile Sessions\", released on October 31, 2011.\n\nIn October 2011, Jardine reported that the Beach Boys would reunite in 2012 for 50 American dates and 50–60 overseas dates. The Beach Boys released their new album, \"That's Why God Made the Radio\", on June 5, 2012. The album's title track was released as its first single in April 2012.\nThe new album debuted at Number 3 on the \"Billboard\" charts which was their highest album debut to date. Following the reunion a year later, it was announced that Wilson would no longer tour with the band as Mike Love returned the lineup to its pre-Anniversary Tour configuration with him and Bruce Johnston as its only members.\n\nOn June 6, 2013, Wilson's website announced that he was recording and self-producing new material with guitarist Jeff Beck, session musician/producer Don Was, as well as fellow Beach Boys Al Jardine, David Marks, and Blondie Chaplin. On June 20, the website announced that the material might be split into three albums: one of new pop songs, another of mostly instrumental tracks with Beck, and another of interwoven tracks dubbed \"the suite\" which initially began form as the closing four tracks of \"That's Why God Made The Radio\". In January 2014, Wilson confirmed that he did not write any new material with Beck, that Beck was just a guest musician on songs he wrote and nothing the duo recorded together would appear on his upcoming album.\n\nPremiering in September 2014 at the Toronto International Film Festival, Wilson was in attendance at the first screening of \"Love & Mercy\", a biographical film of his life directed by Bill Pohlad. On October 7, 2014, BBC released a newly recorded version of \"God Only Knows\" with guest appearances by Wilson, Brian May, Elton John, Jake Bugg, Stevie Wonder, Lorde, and many others. It was recorded to celebrate the launch of BBC Music. A week later, Wilson was featured as a guest vocalist for the Emile Haynie single \"Falling Apart\". A cover of Paul McCartney's \"Wanderlust\" was contributed by Wilson for the tribute album \"The Art of McCartney\", released in November 2014.\n\nAlmost two years after recording began, Wilson released his eleventh solo album, \"No Pier Pressure\", on April 7, 2015. The thirteen track album (a deluxe edition containing three bonus tracks was also released) features many guest appearances including Al Jardine, David Marks and Blondie Chaplin. Fun’s Nate Ruess, She & Him’s Zooey Deschanel and M Ward, Capital Cities’ Sebu Simonian, along with Kacey Musgraves and Peter Hollens. Earlier in January 2015, Wilson contributed vocals to Mini Mansions' single \"Any Emotions\" from the album \"The Great Pretenders\". On September 17, 2015, Wilson announced that he would play a November 4 benefit concert as part of a new partnership with the Campaign to Change Direction. Proceeds from the concert will go to provide free mental health services to veterans.\n\nTo celebrate the 50th anniversary of \"Pet Sounds\", Wilson embarked on the Pet Sounds 50th Anniversary World Tour in April 2016. It was promoted as his final performances of the album. An autobiography titled \"I Am Brian Wilson\", co-written by ghostwriter Ben Greenman, was published in October 2016. That same month, Wilson announced a new album, \"Sensitive Music for Sensitive People\", comprising originals and rock and roll cover songs. He describes the name as a \"working title\", and that recording would begin in December 2016.\n\nWilson will be making another return during Sarasota for a Christmas show, where he will perform his 1964 Christmas holiday album. He will be joined by the former Beach Boys associates Blondie Chaplin and Al Jardine.\n\nWilson's understanding of music theory was self-taught. The first instrument he learned to play was a toy accordion before quickly moving to piano and then bass guitar. From an early age, Wilson demonstrated an extraordinary skill for learning music by ear on keyboard. According to bassist Carol Kaye, \"He took bass up another step. He saw it as integral in a symphonic orchestra. He used bass as the framework for a hit record. Very few people can write for bass, but his writing was beautiful. There are a lot of jazz musicians who admire him for it.\"\n\nThe work of record producer Phil Spector, who popularized the Wall of Sound, was a focal obsession for Wilson. In the 1960s, Wilson thought of Spector as \"the single most influential producer. He's timeless. He makes a milestone whenever he goes into the studio.\" Wilson later reflected: \"I was unable to really think as a producer up until the time where I really got familiar with Phil Spector's work. That was when I started to design the experience to be a record rather than just a song.\" Wilson's work is sometimes characterized as avant-garde pop. Critic Michael Hann cites an \"extraordinary rush of avant-pop creativity between 1965 and 1967\". In the belief of writer Richard Goldstein: \"[Wilson] never realized his full potential as a composer. In the light of electronica and minimalism, you can see how advanced his ideas were, but they remain bursts of inspiration from a mind that couldn't mobilize itself into a whole. This was the major tragedy of rock in the sixties.\"\n\nWilson believes after he first took LSD in 1965: \"It expanded my mind a little bit, so I could write better songs ... [While] it was worth it, I wouldn't take it again.\" He has spoken that \"It isn't easy for me. So many things have scared me in my life – I've got fears, lots of stuff. I mean, boy, just all the records that have scared me. So many records just rocked my world, man. It's heavy.\" He named \"What a Fool Believes\" (1978) as a song he considers a \"scary record\" and once believed that Procol Harum's \"A Whiter Shade of Pale\" (1967) was his funeral march. He denied that the Beatles ever influenced him, only that they inspired him. Alice Cooper reported that Wilson once considered the traditional standard \"Shortnin' Bread\" to be the greatest song ever written, as he quotes Wilson for an explanation: \"I don't know, it's just the best song ever written.\"\n\nFrom late 1964 to 1979, Wilson was married to Marilyn Rovell. Together, they had two daughters Carnie and Wendy. Both went on to musical success of their own in the early 1990s as two-thirds of the singing group, Wilson Phillips. In 1995, Wilson married Melinda Kae Ledbetter, a car saleswoman and former model whom he met in 1986. They dated for three years before Landy put an end to their relationship. Wilson and Ledbetter reconnected in 1992 and married in 1995. As of 1999, Melinda was acting as Brian's manager, a job which she said is \"basically negotiating, and that's what I did every single day when I sold cars.\" Wilson and Ledbetter adopted two sons, Dylan and Dash.\n\nWilson has six grandchildren.\n\nIn 1999, when asked if he was a religious man, Wilson responded: \"I believe in Phil Spector,\" later clarifying that while he had spiritual beliefs, he did not follow any particular religion, also adding that he believed \"music is God's voice\". When asked by \"The Guardian\" in 2004 if he believed in life after death, Wilson replied \"I don't.\"\n\nWilson is officially diagnosed as a schizoaffective with mild manic depression. He regularly experiences auditory hallucinations that present themselves in the form of disembodied voices. According to him, he began having hallucinations in 1965, shortly after starting to use psychedelic drugs. In 1984, he had been diagnosed as paranoid schizophrenic, with doctors finding evidence of brain damage caused by excessive and sustained drug abuse. The paranoid schizophrenic diagnosis, originally made by Landy, was later retracted. Wilson's mental condition improved in later years, although his struggles with auditory hallucinations were not eliminated. He credited his relationship with his wife with allowing him to resume his career as a musician. In his own words, he said that he should have spent the early 2000s \"in a mental institution under heavy sedation\" due to the stresses of his condition, however, \"Things have started to get a little bit easier, but I'm not always in a positive, happy place.\"\n\nWilson is infamously difficult to interview, rarely ever giving a long answer. According to \"Salon\" writer Peter Gilstrap: \"He’s also been known to get up, extend a hand and blurt out 'Thanks!' well before the allotted time is up. And sometimes he just gets tired and shuts down. None of this, however, is due to a bad attitude.\" He admits to having a poor memory, and in interviews, occasionally lies to \"test\" people. David Oppenheim, who interviewed Wilson in 1966, remembers that \"we tried to talk with him but didn't get much out of him. Some guy said 'He's not verbal.' He was odd and he seemed odder.\" In 2017, the \"Charlotte Observer\"s Theodon Janes surmised that while Wilson's past struggles with mental illness are widely documented, he still \"is faring well enough to write a book [\"I Am Brian Wilson\"] ... and to headline [a] hugely ambitious concert tour, so presumably he’s capable of telling people who work for him that he's not up for interviews, if he isn't.\"\n\nWhether Wilson truly consents to his semi-regular touring schedule since the 2000s is a subject of debate among fans. In a 1999 \"A&E\" biography, Ledbetter stated: \"We more or less decided that if he's going to stay in the music business, there's a certain way you stay in the music business, and it's not by making an album every ten years, and just throwing it out.\" Ginger Blake, a family friend formerly of the Honeys, characterized Wilson as \"seemingly is in a fairly good place, but that's not the real Brian Wilson, that's the Brian Wilson who's become complacent and basically surrendered\". When asked about negative comments written in Wilson's 2016 autobiography, Mike Love responded: \"He’s not in charge of his life, like I am mine. His every move is orchestrated and a lot of things he's purported to say, there’s not tape of it. But, I don’t like to put undue pressure on him, either, because I know he has a lot of issues.\"\n\nIn 2011, after speaking to some of Wilson's acquaintances, biographer Jon Stebbins speculated that \"Working in the studio and especially touring is not really his choice. His handlers, managers, and wife insist that he work. It's all a bit Landy-like when you look behind the curtain.\" Although Wilson often says that he enjoys touring, Stebbins writes of a \"recent interview [where he was asked] what he disliked the most about touring, Brian replied that it was going on stage and performing. ... Upon hearing Brian say that, his 'handler' quickly reminded Brian, through a fake smile, that he loved performing\".\n\nWilson is widely regarded as one of the most innovative and significant songwriters of the late 20th century, and his work is credited as a major innovation in the field of music production. According to Erik Davis, \"Not only did [he] write a soundtrack to the early '60s, but Brian let loose a delicate and joyful art pop unique in music history and presaged the mellowness so fundamental to '70s California pop.\" \"The A.V. Club\" wrote that Wilson was among \"studio rats ... [that] set the pace for how pop music could and should sound in the Flower Power era: at once starry-eyed and wistful.\" Sean O'Hagan of the High Llamas named Wilson an important pioneer of experimental pop. Once Wilson started incorporating quasi-symphonic textures into his work, many people began crediting him for propelling the mid-1960s art pop movement. Carlin wrote that Wilson was the forerunner of \"a new kind of art-rock that would combine the transcendent possibilities of art with the mainstream accessibility of pop music\". He is also regarded as the most famous outsider musician. Author Irwin Chusid noted Wilson as an ironic example of the genre due to his past commercial success, but believes that Wilson's history of torment, substance abuse, and \"loopy\" material are what \"certify\" his outsider status.\n\nAs one of the first music producer auteurs, Wilson (along with George Martin) popularized the idea of the recording studio as a compositional tool by using recording sessions as fertile creative terrain in and of themselves, a practice which was unheard of in his time and later shorthanded as \"playing the studio\". Only 21 years old when he received the freedom to produce his own records with total creative autonomy, he ignited an explosion of like-minded California producers, supplanting New York as the center of popular records, and becoming the first rock producer to use the studio as a discrete instrument. The Beach Boys were thus one of the first rock groups to exert studio control.\n\nMusic producers after the mid 1960s would draw on Wilson's influence, setting a precedent that allowed bands and artists to enter a recording studio and act as producers, either autonomously, or in conjunction with other like minds. \"The Atlantic\"s Jason Guriel credits \"Pet Sounds\" with inventing the modern pop album, that Wilson \"paved the way for auteurs ... anticipat[ing] the rise of the producer ... [and] the modern pop-centric era, which privileges producer over artist and blurs the line between entertainment and art. ... Anytime a band or musician disappears into a studio to contrive an album-length mystery, the ghost of Wilson is hovering near. ... [he was] the first to turn an album into an occasion.\" In the late 1960s, Wilson also started a trend of \"project\" recording, where an artist records by himself instead of going into an established studio.\n\n\nWilson is the subject of the documentary films \"\" (1995) and \"\" (2005). He is also the theme of several tribute albums.\n\nIn 2014, Wilson's life was dramatized in the biopic \"Love & Mercy\", directed by Bill Pohlad. It stars John Cusack portraying Wilson during the 1980s and Paul Dano portraying Wilson during the 1960s. The film co-stars Paul Giamatti as Eugene Landy and Elizabeth Banks as Wilson's second wife, Melinda Ledbetter.\n\nStudio albums\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13493676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13493676", "title": "Charlie Storms", "text": "Charlie Storms\n\nCharles Spencer Storms, known as Charlie Storms (1823-1881) was a professional gunfighter and gambler of the Old West, who is best known for having been killed in a gunfight with Luke Short in Tombstone, Arizona.\n\nCharlie Storms was born in the state of New York, as is shown by public records. Storms was reported by the \"Tombstone Epitaph\" to have been in California during the Gold Rush of 1849, which is corroborated by an entry in the 1852 California state census for the city of Sacramento, that lists twenty-nine year old \"Chas. S. Storms,\" a laborer born in New York who had last lived in Mexico.\n\nHe had a reputation as being a skilled gunman during the 1870s and afterward, and traveled to many towns throughout the Old West as a gambler. He drifted from place to place, including Deer Lodge, Virginia City, Leadville, Dodge City, Kansas, Deadwood, during which time he was involved in at least three shooting incidents. When Wild Bill Hickok was murdered by Jack McCall in Deadwood, South Dakota, Storms was reportedly in town at the same time, and it was rumored that he stole one of Hickok's pistols as a souvenir, although this was never proven.\n\nHe left El Paso, Texas and arrived in Tombstone in 1881. He was a well-known gambler and frequented saloons in town.\n\nOn February 25, 1881, Storms had been drinking all night and made several rude remarks to Faro dealer Luke Short in the Oriental Saloon. Storms had successfully defended himself several times with his pistol. He had inaccurately sized Short up as someone who, according to Bat Masterson, he could \"slap in the face without expecting a return.\" Masterson knew both men.\n\nShort shot Storms in the chest twice at point-blank range, setting his shirt on fire. Short reportedly told Bat Masterson, \"You sure pick some of the damnedest friends, Bat\".\n\nTombstone physician George E. Goodfellow was only a few feet from Storms when he was killed. \"In the spring of 1881 I was a few feet distant from a couple of individuals <nowiki>[</nowiki>Luke Short and Charlie Storms<nowiki>]</nowiki> who were quarreling. They began shooting. The first shot took effect, as was afterward ascertained, in the left breast of one of them, who, after being shot, and while staggering back some 12 feet, cocked and fired his pistol twice, his second shot going into the air, for by that time he was on his back.\" He found two thicknesses of silk wrapped around the bullet and two tears where it had struck the vertebral column.\n\nExamining Storms afterward, Goodfellow found that he had been shot in the heart, but was surprised to see \"not a drop of blood\" exiting the wound. He discovered that the bullet had ripped through the man's clothes and into a folded silk handkerchief in his breast pocket. He extracted the intact bullet from the wound with the silk wrapped around it. As a result of what he learned, Goodfellow began experimenting with the first designs for bullet-resistant clothing made of multiple layers of silk.\n\nShort was arrested by Tombstone city Marshal Ben Sippy for killing Storms. During the preliminary hearing, Masterson testified that Short acted in self defense and Short was released. The \"Arizona Weekly\" reported that Storms was around 60 years old and that he was survived by a widow in San Francisco. The 1870 Census returns lists a Mrs. Mary Storms, aged 40, born at sea, residing in the same San Francisco household with Charles Storms, along with two brothers Henry and George Goodman, aged 24 and 16 respectively, who may have been her sons from an earlier marriage. The San Francisco Call for November 26, 1903, at page 15 lists the death notice of \"Mrs. Mary Storms,\" aged eighty four, who died on November 24 at the University Mound Ladies Home, an assisted care living facility for elderly women.\n"}
{"id": "7015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7015", "title": "Christiaan Barnard", "text": "Christiaan Barnard\n\nChristiaan Neethling Barnard (8 November 1922 – 2 September 2001) was a South African cardiac surgeon who performed the world's first human-to-human heart transplant on 3 December 1967 at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, South Africa. Growing up in Beaufort West, Cape Province, he studied medicine and practised for several years in his native country. As a young doctor experimenting on dogs, Barnard developed a remedy for the infant defect of intestinal atresia. His technique saved the lives of ten babies in Cape Town and was adopted by surgeons in Britain and the United States. In 1955, he travelled to the United States and was initially assigned further gastrointestinal work by Owen Harding Wangensteen. He was introduced to the heart-lung machine, and Barnard was allowed to transfer to the service run by open heart surgery pioneer Walt Lillehei. Upon returning to South Africa in 1958, Barnard was appointed head of the Department of Experimental Surgery at the Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town.\n\nOn 3 December 1967, Barnard transplanted the heart of Denise Darvall, who had just died from a head injury, into the chest of a 54-year-old Louis Washkansky. Washkansky regained full consciousness and lived for eighteen days, even spending time with his wife, before he died of pneumonia, with the suppression of his immune system by the anti-rejection drugs being a major contributing factor. Barnard had told Mr. and Mrs. Washkansky that the operation had an 80% chance of success, a claim which has been criticised as misleading.\n\nBarnard's second transplant patient Philip Blaiberg, with the operation performed at the beginning of 1968, lived for nineteen months and was able to go home from the hospital.\n\nHe retired as Head of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery in Cape Town in 1983 after developing rheumatoid arthritis in his hands which ended his surgical career. He became interested in anti-aging research, and in 1986 his reputation suffered when he promoted \"Glycel\", an expensive \"anti-aging\" skin cream, whose approval was withdrawn by the United States Food and Drug Administration soon thereafter. During his remaining years, he established the Christiaan Barnard Foundation, dedicated to helping underprivileged children throughout the world. He died in 2001 at the age of 78 after an asthma attack.\n\nBarnard grew up in Beaufort West, Cape Province, Union of South Africa. His father, Adam Barnard, was a minister in the Dutch Reformed Church. One of his four brothers, Abraham, was a \"blue baby\" who died of a heart problem at the age of three (Barnard would later guess that it was tetralogy of Fallot). The family also experienced the loss of a daughter who was stillborn and who had been the fraternal twin of Barnard's older brother Johannes, who was twelve years older than Chris. Barnard matriculated from the Beaufort West High School in 1940, and went to study medicine at the University of Cape Town Medical School, where he obtained his MB ChB in 1945.\n\nHis father served as a missionary to mixed-race peoples. His mother, the former Maria Elisabeth de Swart, instilled in the surviving brothers the belief that they could do anything they set their minds to.\n\nBarnard did his internship and residency at the Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, after which he worked as a general practitioner in Ceres, a rural town in the Cape Province. In 1951, he returned to Cape Town where he worked at the City Hospital as a Senior Resident Medical Officer, and in the Department of Medicine at the Groote Schuur Hospital as a registrar. He completed his master's degree, receiving Master of Medicine in 1953 from the University of Cape Town. In the same year he obtained a doctorate in medicine (MD) from the same university for a dissertation titled \"The treatment of tuberculous meningitis\".\n\nSoon after qualifying as a doctor, Barnard performed experiments on dogs investigating intestinal atresia, a birth defect which allows life-threatening gaps to develop in the intestines. He followed a medical hunch that this was caused by inadequate blood flow to the fetus. After nine months and forty-three attempts, Barnard was able to reproduce this condition in a fetus puppy by tying off some of the blood supply to a puppy's intestines and then placing the animal back in the womb, after which it was born some two weeks later, with the condition of intestinal atresia. He was also able to cure the condition by removing the piece of intestine with inadequate blood supply. The mistake of previous surgeons had been attempting to reconnect ends of intestine which themselves still had inadequate blood supply. To be successful, it was typically necessary to remove between 15 and 20 centimeters of intestine (6 to 8 inches). Jannie Louw used this innovation in a clinical setting, and Barnard's method saved the lives of ten babies in Cape Town. This technique was also adapted by surgeons in Britain and the US. In addition, Barnard analyzed 259 cases of tubercular meningitis. \n\nOwen Wangensteen in Minnesota had been impressed by the work of Alan Thal, a young South African doctor working in Minnesota. He asked Groote Schuur Head of Medicine John Brock if he might recommend any similarly talented South Africans and Brock recommended Barnard. In December 1955, Barnard travelled to the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, United States, to begin a two-year scholarship under Chief of Surgery Wangensteen, who assigned Barnard more work on the intestines, which Barnard accepted even though he wanted to move onto something new. Simply by luck, whenever Barnard needed a break from this work, he could wander across the hall and talk with Vince Gott who ran the lab for open-heart surgery pioneer Walt Lillehei. Gott had begun to develop a technique of running blood backwards through the veins of the heart so Lillehei could more easily operate on the aortic valve (McRae writes, \"It was the type of inspired thinking that entranced Barnard\"). In March 1956, Gott asked Barnard to help him run the heart-lung machine for an operation. Shortly thereafter, Wangensteen agreed to let Barnard switch to Lillehei's service. It was during this time that Barnard first became acquainted with fellow future heart transplantation surgeon Norman Shumway. Barnard also became friendly with Gil Campbell who had demonstrated that a dog's lung could be used to oxygenate blood during open-heart surgery. (The year before Barnard arrived, Lillehei and Campbell had used this procedure for twenty minutes during surgery on a 13-year-old boy with ventricular septal defect, and the boy had made a full recovery.) Barnard and Campbell met regularly for early breakfast. In 1958, Barnard received a Master of Science in Surgery for a thesis titled \"The aortic valve – problems in the fabrication and testing of a prosthetic valve\". The same year he was awarded a Ph.D. for his dissertation titled \"The aetiology of congenital intestinal atresia\". Barnard described the two years he spent in the United States as \"the most fascinating time in my life.\"\n\nUpon returning to South Africa in 1958, Barnard was appointed head of the Department of Experimental Surgery at Groote Schuur hospital, as well as holding a joint post at the University of Cape Town. He was promoted to full-time lecturer and Director of Surgical Research at the University of Cape Town. In 1960, he flew to Moscow in order to meet Vladimir Demikhov, a top expert on organ transplants (later he credited Demikhov's accomplishment saying that \"if there is a father of heart and lung transplantation then Demikhov certainly deserves this title.\") In 1961 he was appointed Head of the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at the teaching hospitals of the University of Cape Town. He rose to the position of Associate Professor in the Department of Surgery at the University of Cape Town in 1962. Barnard's younger brother Marius, who also studied medicine, eventually became Barnard's right-hand man at the department of Cardiac Surgery. Over time, Barnard became known as a brilliant surgeon with many contributions to the treatment of cardiac diseases, such as the Tetralogy of Fallot and Ebstein's anomaly. He was promoted to Professor of Surgical Science in the Department of Surgery at the University of Cape Town in 1972. In 1981, Barnard became a founding member of the World Cultural Council. Among the many awards he received over the years, he was named Professor Emeritus in 1984.\n\nFollowing the first successful kidney transplant in 1953, in the United States, Barnard performed the second kidney transplant in South Africa in October 1967, the first being done in Johannesburg the previous year.\n\nOn 23 January 1964, James Hardy at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, Mississippi, performed the world's first heart transplant and world's first cardiac xenotransplant by transplanting the heart of a chimpanzee into a desperately ill and dying man. This heart did beat in the patient's chest for approximately 60 to 90 minutes. The patient, Boyd Rush, died without ever regaining consciousness.\n\nBarnard had experimentally transplanted forty-eight hearts into dogs, which was about a fifth the number that Adrian Kantrowitz had performed at Maimonides Medical Center in New York and about a sixth the number Norman Shumway had performed at Stanford University in California. Barnard had no dogs which had survived longer than ten days, unlike Kantrowitz and Shumway who had had dogs survive for more than a year.\nWith the availability of new breakthroughs introduced by several pioneers, also including Richard Lower at the Medical College of Virginia, several surgical teams were in a position to prepare for a human heart transplant. Barnard had a patient willing to undergo the procedure, but as with other surgeons, he needed a suitable donor.\n\nDuring the Apartheid era in South Africa, non-white persons and citizens were not given equal opportunities in the medical professions. At Groote Schuur Hospital, Hamilton Naki was an informally taught surgeon. He started out as a gardener and cleaner. One day he was asked to help out with an experiment on a giraffe. From this modest beginning, Naki became principal lab technician and taught hundreds of surgeons, and assisted with Barnard's organ transplant program. Barnard said, \"Hamilton Naki had better technical skills than I did. He was a better craftsman than me, especially when it came to stitching, and had very good hands in the theatre\". A popular myth, propagated principally by a widely discredited documentary film called \"Hidden Heart\" and an erroneous newspaper article , maintains incorrectly that Naki was present during the Washkansky transplant.\n\nBarnard performed the world's first human-to-human heart transplant operation in the early morning hours of Sunday 3 December 1967. Louis Washkansky, a 54-year-old grocer who was suffering from diabetes and incurable heart disease, was the patient. Barnard was assisted by his brother Marius Barnard, as well as a team of thirty staff members. The operation lasted approximately five hours.\n\nBarnard stated to Washkansky and his wife Ann Washkansky that the transplant had an 80% chance of success. This has been criticised by the ethicists Peter Singer and Helga Kuhse as making claims for chances of success to the patient and family which were \"unfounded\" and \"misleading\".\nBarnard later wrote, \"For a dying man it is not a difficult decision because he knows he is at the end. If a lion chases you to the bank of a river filled with crocodiles, you will leap into the water, convinced you have a chance to swim to the other side.\" The donor heart came from a young woman, Denise Darvall, who had been rendered brain dead in an accident on 2 December 1967, while crossing a street in Cape Town. On examination at Groote Schuur hospital, Darvall had two serious fractures in her skull, with no electrical activity in her brain detected, and no sign of pain when ice water was poured into her ear. Coert Venter and Bertie Bosman requested permission from Darvall's father for Denise's heart to be used in the transplant attempt. The afternoon before his first transplant, Barnard dozed at his home while listening to music. When he awoke, he decided to modify Shumway and Lower's technique. Instead of cutting straight across the back of the atrial chambers of the donor heart, he would avoid damage to the septum and instead cut two small holes for the venae cavae and pulmonary veins. Prior to the transplant, rather than wait for Darvall's heart to stop beating, at his brother Marius Barnard's urging, Christiaan had injected potassium into her heart to paralyse it and render her technically dead by the whole-body standard. Twenty years later, Marius Barnard recounted, \"Chris stood there for a few moments, watching, then stood back and said, 'It works.'\"\n\nWashkansky survived the operation and lived for 18 days, having succumbed to pneumonia as he was taking immunosuppressive drugs.\n\nBarnard was celebrated around the world for his accomplishment. He was photogenic and enjoyed the media attention following the operation.\n\nWorldwide, approximately 100 transplants were performed by various doctors during 1968. Only a third of these patients lived longer than three months. A U.S. National Institutes of Health publication states, \"Within several years, only Shumway's team at Stanford was attempting transplants.\"\n\nBarnard's second transplant operation was conducted on 2 January 1968, and the patient, Philip Blaiberg, survived for 19 months. Dirk van Zyl, who received a new heart in 1971, was the longest-lived recipient, surviving over 23 years.\n\nBetween December 1967 and November 1974 at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town, South Africa, ten heart transplants were performed, as well as a heart and lung transplant in 1971. Of these ten patients, four lived longer than 18 months, with two of these four becoming long-term survivors. One patient lived for over thirteen years and another for over twenty-four years.\n\nFull recovery of donor heart function often takes place over hours or days, during which time considerable damage can occur. Other deaths to patients can occur from preexisting conditions. For example, in pulmonary hypertension the patient's right ventricle has often adapted to the higher pressure over time and, although diseased and hypertrophied, is often capable of maintaining circulation to the lungs. Barnard designed the idea of the heterotopic (or \"piggy back\" transplant) in which the patient's diseased heart is left in place while the donor heart is added, essentially forming a \"double heart\". Barnard performed the first such heterotopic heart transplant in 1974.\n\nFrom November 1974 through December 1983, 49 consecutive heterotopic heart transplants on 43 patients were performed at Groote Schuur. The survival rate for patients at one year was over 60%, as compared to less than 40% with standard transplants, and the survival rate at five years was over 36% as compared to less than 20% with standard transplants.\n\nMany surgeons gave up cardiac transplantation due to poor results, often due to rejection of the transplanted heart by the patient's immune system. Barnard persisted until the advent of cyclosporine, an effective immunosuppressive drug, which helped revive the operation throughout the world. He also attempted xenotransplantation in a human patient, while attempting to save the life of a girl who was unable to leave artificial life support after her second aortic valve replacement.\n\nBarnard was an outspoken opponent of South Africa's laws of apartheid, and was not afraid to criticise his nation's government, although he had to temper his remarks to some extent to travel abroad. Rather than leaving his homeland, he used his fame to campaign for a change in the law. Christiaan's brother, Marius Barnard, went into politics, and was elected to the legislature from Progressive Federal Party. Barnard later stated that the reason he never won the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was probably because he was a \"white South African\".\n\nShortly before his visit to Kenya in 1978, the following was written about his views regarding race relations in South Africa;\n\"While he believes in the participation of Africans in the political process of South Africa, he is opposed to a one-man-one-vote system in South Africa\".\n\nIn answering a hypothetical question on how he would solve the race problem were he a \"benevolent dictator in South Africa\", Barnard stated the following in a long interview at the Weekly Review:\n\nThe interview ended with the following summary from he himself;\n\"I often say that, like King Lear, South Africa is a country more sinned against than sinning.\"\n\nBarnard's first marriage was to Aletta Gertruida Louw, a nurse, whom he married in 1948 while practising medicine in Ceres. The couple had two children — Deirdre (born 1950) and Andre (1951–1984). International fame took a toll on his personal life, and in 1969, Barnard and his wife divorced. In 1970, he married heiress Barbara Zoellner when she was 19, the same age as his son, and they had two children — Frederick (born 1972) and Christiaan Jr. (born 1974). He divorced Zoellner in 1982. Barnard married for a third time in 1988 to Karin Setzkorn, a young model. They also had two children, Armin (born 1989) and Lara (born 1997), but this last marriage also ended in divorce in 2000.\n\nBarnard described in his autobiography \"The Second Life\" a one-night extramarital affair with Italian film star Gina Lollobrigida, that occurred in January 1968. During that visit to Rome he received an audience from Pope Paul VI.\n\nIn October 2016, U.S. Congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH) stated that Barnard sexually assaulted her when she was 23 years old. According to Kuster, he attempted to grope her under her skirt, while seated at a business luncheon with Rep. Pete McCloskey (R-CA), whom she worked for at the time.\n\nBarnard retired as Head of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery in Cape Town in 1983 after developing rheumatoid arthritis in his hands which ended his surgical career. He had struggled with arthritis since 1956, when it was diagnosed during his postgraduate work in the United States. After retirement, he spent two years as the Scientist-In-Residence at the Oklahoma Transplantation Institute in the United States and as an acting consultant for various institutions.\n\nHe had by this time become very interested in anti-aging research, and his reputation suffered in 1986 when he promoted \"Glycel\", an expensive \"anti-aging\" skin cream, whose approval was withdrawn by the United States Food and Drug Administration soon thereafter. He also spent time as a research advisor to the Clinique la Prairie, in Switzerland, where the controversial \"rejuvenation therapy\" was practised.\n\nBarnard divided the remainder of his years between Austria, where he established the Christiaan Barnard Foundation, dedicated to helping underprivileged children throughout the world, and his game farm in Beaufort West, South Africa.\n\nChristiaan Barnard died on 2 September 2001, while on holiday in Paphos, Cyprus. Early reports stated that he had died of a heart attack, but an autopsy showed his death was caused by a severe asthma attack.\n\nChristiaan Barnard wrote two autobiographies. His first book, \"One Life\", was published in 1969 () and sold copies worldwide. Some of the proceeds were used to set up the Chris Barnard Fund for research into heart disease and heart transplants in Cape Town. His second autobiography, \"The Second Life\", was published in 1993, eight years before his death ().\n\nApart from his autobiographies, Dr Barnard also wrote several other books including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26475797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26475797", "title": "Deliverance Dane", "text": "Deliverance Dane\n\nDeliverance (née Hazeltine) Dane was one of many women accused of witchcraft during the Salem Witch Trials. She was from Andover, Massachusetts, and due largely to the work of her father-in-law, much of the hysteria that swept through Salem was halted in Andover. Her husband, Nathaniel Dane, was the son of Rev. Francis Dane. Francis Dane was outspoken against the trials, and his two daughters Abigail Faulkner and Elizabeth Johnson were also accused of being witches. Abigail was convicted of witchcraft, but only escaped execution because she was pregnant at the time.\n\nMany of the records of Deliverance's examination have been lost, but on page 280 of Marilynne K. Roach's book \"The Salem Witch Trials: A Day-by-Day Chronicle of a Community Under Siege\", she quotes Deliverance as saying that she and some other witches had brought her father-in-law's specter along with them to torment the afflicted. Her testimony was ignored and Rev. Francis Dane was not arrested. Deliverance Dane escaped execution. According to Andover, Massachusetts records, she died on June 15, 1735.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1491309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491309", "title": "Ellen Corby", "text": "Ellen Corby\n\nEllen Hansen Corby (June 3, 1911 – April 14, 1999) was an American actress. She is best remembered for the role of Grandma Esther Walton on the CBS television series \"The Waltons\", for which she won three Emmy Awards. She was also nominated for an Academy Award and won a Golden Globe Award for her performance as Aunt Trina in \"I Remember Mama\" (1948).\n\nEllen Hansen was born in Racine, Wisconsin, to immigrant parents from Denmark. She grew up in Philadelphia. An interest in amateur theater while in high school led her to Atlantic City in 1932, where she briefly worked as a chorus girl. She moved to Hollywood that same year and got a job as a script girl at RKO Studios and Hal Roach Studios, where she often worked on \"Our Gang\" comedies, alongside her future husband, cinematographer Francis Corby. She held that position for the next 12 years and took acting lessons on the side.\n\nAlthough she had bit parts in more than 30 films in the 1930s and 1940s, including \"Babes in Toyland\" (1934) and \"It's a Wonderful Life\" (1946), her first credited acting role was in RKO's \"Cornered\" (1945) in which she played a maid, followed by an uncredited brief speaking role as a kitchen cook in \"The Locket\" (1946). Corby began her career as a writer at Paramount studios working on the western \"Twilight on the Trail\" (1941).\n\nShe received an Academy Award nomination and a Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress for her performance as a lovelorn aunt in \"I Remember Mama\" (1948). Over the next four decades, she worked in film and television, typically portraying maids, secretaries, waitresses, or gossips, often in Westerns, and had a recurring role as Henrietta Porter, a newspaper publisher, in \"Trackdown\" (1957–1959), starring Robert Culp as Texas Ranger Hoby Gilman. In the episode entitled \"The Vote\", Henrietta Porter advocates for women's suffrage: \"Women should have the right to vote. Women should be in politics. They can't do any worse than you men!\" For her guest appearances in many Westerns, Corby in 1989 won a Golden Boot award.\n\nCorby appeared as the elderly Mrs. Lesh, the crooked car peddler, on CBS's \"The Andy Griffith Show\". She guest-starred, as well, on \"Wagon Train\", \"Cheyenne\", \"Bewitched\", \"The Guns of Will Sonnett\", \"Dragnet\" (several episodes), \"Rescue 8\", \"The Restless Gun\" (two episodes), \"The Rifleman\", \"The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp\", \"Fury\", \"The Donna Reed Show\", \"Frontier Circus\", \"Hazel\", \"I Love Lucy\", \"Dennis the Menace\", \"Tightrope\", \"Bonanza\", \"The Big Valley, Meet McGraw\", \"The Virginian\", \"Channing\", \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", \"Batman\", \"Get Smart\", \"Gomer Pyle\", \"The Addams Family\", \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", \"The Invaders\", \"Lassie\", and \"Night Gallery\". From 1965 to 1967, she had a recurring role in the NBC television series \"Please Don't Eat the Daisies\", based on an earlier Doris Day film.\n\nHer best-known role came as Grandma Esther Walton on the made-for-TV film \"The Homecoming: A Christmas Story\" (1971), which served as the pilot for \"The Waltons\". Her husband, Zebulon Walton, was portrayed by actor Edgar Bergen in the film. Corby went on to resume her role on the weekly television series \"The Waltons\". (She was the only adult actor from the original \"Homecoming\" pilot to carry her role over to the series.) Actor Will Geer played her husband in the series from 1972 until his death in 1978, at which time the character of Zebulon Walton was also buried. The series ran from 1972 to 1981, and resulted in six sequel films. For her work in \"The Waltons\", she gained three Emmy Awards and three more nominations as Best Supporting Actress. She also won a Golden Globe award for best supporting actress in a TV series for the show \"The Waltons\", and was nominated another three times. She left the show early in 1977, owing to a massive stroke she had suffered on 10 November 1976, which impaired her speech and severely limited her mobility and function. She returned to the series during the final episode of the 1977–78 season, with her character depicted as also recovering from a stroke.\n\nShe remained a regular on \"The Waltons\" through the end of the 1978–79 season, with Esther Walton struggling with her stroke deficits as Corby was in real life. Although Corby was able to communicate after her stroke, her character's lines were usually limited to one word or one-phrased dialogue, such as \"No\" or \"Home\"; her role dropped to recurring during \"The Waltons\"' final two seasons, and she later resumed her role as Grandma Walton in five of the six \"Waltons\" reunion movies between 1982 and 1997.\n\nEllen Hansen married Francis Corby, a film director/cinematographer who was two decades her senior, in 1934; they divorced in 1944. The marriage did not produce children and she never remarried. Francis Corby died in 1956.\n\nCorby in 1969 trained as a teacher of transcendental meditation.\n\nShe had a stroke in November 1976 from which she recovered and returned to her role on \"The Waltons\" in March 1978. According to Michael Learned, who played Olivia Walton, Will Geer may have saved her life. When she failed to show up for work, Geer immediately suspected something was wrong and went with the show's producers to her home, where they found that she had suffered a stroke. Her stroke was written into the show, with Grandma Walton also suffering a stroke and struggling to regain her speech. Following her stroke, she was supported by her friend, carer and travelling companion Stella Luchetta, with whom she'd become friends in the 1950s, and who lived with her until her death.\nHer final role was in \"A Walton Easter\" (1997). In 1999, following several years of declining health, Corby died at age 87 at the Motion Picture & Television Country House and Hospital in Woodland Hills, Los Angeles. Her memorial site is in Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, California.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16239928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16239928", "title": "Fitz", "text": "Fitz\n\nFitz (pronounced \"fits\") is a prefix in patronymic surnames of Norman origin, that is to say originating in the 11th century. The word is a Norman French noun meaning \"son of\", from Latin \"filius\" (son), plus genitive case of the father's forename. Whilst \"Fitz\" is now the standard form used by modern historians the word appears in ancient documents with various spellings such as \"fiz\", \"filz\", etc. The word has developed in modern French to \"fils de\", with which it is thus cognate.\n\nNorman gentry and noble families under feudal society held one or more manors from an overlord, who himself held directly from the Duke of Normandy, the sovereign. Such families took their surnames from their principal manor on which they resided and which formed their seat. This was the case for example with William the Conqueror's great noble adviser Roger de Beaumont (c. 1015–1094), (\"Roger from Beaumont\"), who took his surname from his manor of Beaumont-le-Roger in Normandy. His eldest son was called Robert de Beaumont, again after the family seat.\n\nHowever, where a distinguished Norman warrior perhaps held no land, and thus was not an established member of feudal society, or was from an obscure family, such a naming convention was unavailable. In such families therefore the word \"Fitz\" was preposed to the fore name of the warrior's father to give the warrior and his further descendants a surname by which they could be known. Thus \"Fitz Gilbert\", meaning \"son of Gilbert\" would be adopted as a surname by the warrior christened \"Baldwin\", giving \"Baldwin Fitz Gilbert\". If we assume Baldwin's son was christened \"William\", his name would become \"William Fitz Baldwin Fitz Gilbert. However it is rare to find this naming practice extending beyond two generations and eventually the family name became \"Fitz Gilbert\" alone, the name of the patriarch, with the name of the patriarch's son being dropped. When it is asked why the father, in this case Gilbert, was not himself \"Fitz\" of his own father, the answer seems unclear. The Domesday Book of 1086, written in Latin, names a few examples such as \"Turstin filius Rolf\", who was known in Norman-French documents as Turstin fitz Rolf.\n\nThe Norman noblemen were descended from Norsemen or Vikings and the usage appears to reflect the Scandinavian tradition of adding \"-son\" after (usually) the father's name. There are, however, exceptions in which the name of a more noteworthy mother (Fitz Wymarch) or a parent's title (Fitz Count, Fitz Empress) was used instead. Such surnames were later created for illegitimate children of royal princes. Other names were Normanized from another language, such as FitzPatrick (from the original Gaelic Mac Giolla Phádraig) or FitzDermot (from Mac Gilla Mo-Cholmóc), but are not of Norman or Norse descent.\n\nThe Devon historian Tristram Risdon (d. 1640) wrote: \"From the Conquest unto the time of King Edward the First [reigned 1272–1307] the addition of 'Fitz' was so frequent with the Normans that to avoid confusion in that kind men were commanded to assume unto themselves local names.\" Thus for example the ancient Anglo-Norman Devonshire family of \"FitzBarnard\" assumed the surname \"de Speccot\", from the name of their Devon seat, Speccot in the parish of Merton.\n\nFrom the Stuart era (1603–1714) and later, a pseudo-Anglo-Norman usage of \"Fitz\" was adopted for younger sons of the British royal family who lacked a legal surname, and particularly for illegitimate children of kings, princes, or general upper class men, for example Fitzroy, (meaning \"son of the king\", from the French \"fils du roy\"); Fitzjames, son of king James II (1685–1688); FitzClarence, son of the Duke of Clarence, later King William IV (1830–1837); and FitzGeorge, son of Prince George, Duke of Cambridge (1819–1904). More generally, in literature the prefix \"Fitz\" has been used to connote nobility, for example in Anthony Trollope's 1862 novel \"Orley Farm\" which features the fictional rakishly aristocratic figure Lord John Fitzjoly.\n\nThe Irish surname FitzGerald is thought to derive from Gerald de Windsor, a Cambro-Norman nobleman whose son and grandson were involved in the Norman invasion of Ireland.\n\nThe Irish name Fitzpatrick does not indicate a Norman origin of the family; it is the translation into English of the Gaelic surname Mac Giolla Phádraig. Other surnames beginning \"Mac Giolla\" were made into \"McGilli-\" (e.g. McGillicuddy), but the Fitzpatricks had their name changed by monarchical decree of Henry VIII as part of their submission under the Crown's surrender and regrant policy in the 1530–40's.\n\n\n\n\"Fitz\" is also a stand-alone German surname originating in the Palatinate region of Germany.\n"}
{"id": "3073332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3073332", "title": "Frederic Manning", "text": "Frederic Manning\n\nFrederic Manning (22 July 188222 February 1935) was an Australian poet and novelist.\n\nBorn in Sydney, Manning was one of eight children of local politician Sir William Patrick Manning. His family were Roman Catholics of Irish origin. A sickly child who suffered from asthma, Manning was educated exclusively at home. As a teenager he formed a close friendship with the Reverend Arthur Galton, a scholarly man who was secretary to the Governor of New South Wales. Galton went home to England in 1898, taking Manning with him. Manning returned to Australia in 1900 but finally settled in the United Kingdom in 1903.\n\nManning moved in with Galton, who had become the vicar of Edenham, a village about three miles north-west of Bourne in south Lincolnshire. He devoted his time to study, reading voraciously, particularly the classics and philosophy, under the domineering influence of Galton. Although he seemingly shared Galton's contempt for Catholicism, Manning never renounced it entirely. He made several unsuccessful attempts to write a historical novel, and in 1907 published his first book, \"The Vigil of Brunhild\", which was a monologue written in verse. \"Scenes and Portraits\" followed in 1909, which was a discussion of religious topics written in the form of a series of debates in which those taking part are leading lights from the past, such as Socrates, Francis of Assisi and Thomas Cromwell. These books went down well in literary circles, but did not enjoy a particularly wide circulation. Manning was recognised as an up-and-coming writer, a reputation that the indifferent collection \"Poems\" (1910) did not dissipate.\n\nManning was never the most robust of individuals, neither was his lifestyle particularly healthy. Despite his asthma, he became a heavy smoker, and he seems to have sought escape from his loneliness in the local public houses. In the years immediately before World War I, he started to move in London artistic circles, becoming friends with Max Beerbohm and William Rothenstein (there is a collection of letters from Manning to Rothenstein), as well as the influential young poets Ezra Pound and Richard Aldington.\n\nWhen war broke out, Manning was keen to enlist, possibly to escape from a stifling environment and to widen his horizons. A man with his fragile constitution and unhealthy lifestyle was not going to be an attractive proposition for the military authorities, but in October 1915 after several attempts, his persistence paid off and he enrolled in the King's Shropshire Light Infantry. He was a private with the service number 19022. He was selected for officer training, but failed the course. Sent to France in 1916, Manning experienced action with the 7th Battalion at the Battle of the Somme, was promoted to lance-corporal and experienced life in the trenches. He was recalled for further training and posted to Ireland in May 1917 with a commission as a second lieutenant in the Royal Irish Regiment. The life of an officer did not agree with him; he seems not to have integrated particularly well and he drank excessively, getting into trouble with his superiors. His inebriation was put down to neurasthenia, but Manning resigned his commission on 28 February 1918.\n\nManning continued to write. In 1917 he published a collection of poems under the title \"Ediola\". This was a mixture of verse predominantly in his former style alongside war poems heavily influenced by the imagism of Pound, which deal introspectively with personal aims and ideals tempered in the crucible of battle. He contributed to anthologies, for example, \"The Monthly Chapbook\" which appeared in July 1919 edited by Harold Monro, containing twenty-three poems by writers including John Alford, Herbert Read, Walter De La Mare, Osbert Sitwell, Siegfried Sassoon, D. H. Lawrence, Edith Sitwell, Robert Nichols, Rose Macaulay and W. H. Davies alongside Manning and Aldington. He wrote for periodicals, including \"The Criterion\", which was produced by T. S. Eliot.\n\nPoetry did not pay, and so in 1923 Manning took a commission from his publisher John Murray to write \"The Life of Sir William White\", a biography of the man who, as Director of Naval Construction, led the build-up of the Royal Navy in the last years of the nineteenth century. Galton had died in 1921, which not only left Manning effectively homeless, but also lacking a forceful directing influence in his life. He lived for much of the time at the Bull Hotel in Bourne, apart from a short spell when he owned a farmhouse in Surrey. At this time he was friendly with T. E. Lawrence, then serving in the Royal Air Force at RAF Cranwell, some twenty miles (a motorcycle ride) from where Manning was living. In 1926 he contributed the introduction to an edition of \"Epicurus's Morals: Collected and faithfully Englished\" by Walter Charleton, originally published in 1656, published in a limited edition by Peter Davies.\n\nAs the 1920s progressed and confidence started to return, the artistic community was increasingly looking back at the war. The demand for written material started to grow. The big catalyst was the play \"Journey's End\" written by R. C. Sherriff which first appeared in 1928. Davies urged Manning to use his undoubted talent in conjunction with his intense wartime experiences to write a novel. In an effort to capture the moment, Manning had to work rapidly, with little opportunity for second drafts and revisions. The result was \"The Middle Parts of Fortune\", published anonymously by Peter Davies and the Piazza Press in a numbered limited edition of 520 copies in 1929, which are now rare collectors' items. The book is an account in the vernacular of the lives of ordinary soldiers. The central character named Bourne is the filter through which Manning's own experiences are transposed into the lives of a group of men whose own personal qualities interact in response to conflict and comradeship. Bourne is an enigmatic, detached character (a self-portrait of the author) who leaves each of the protagonists alone with their own detachment, privy to their own thoughts.\n\nAn expurgated version was published by Davies in 1930 under the title \"Her Privates We\". There is a quote from Shakespeare at the start of each chapter, and this particular reference occurs in \"Hamlet\". In Act 2, Scene 2, there is a jocular exchange between Hamlet and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern:\n\nThe original publication of this edition credited authorship to \"Private 19022\", possibly a simple desire for anonymity or possibly a further pun on \"private soldier\" and \"private parts\". Manning was first credited with authorship by name posthumously in 1943, but the original text was published widely only in 1977. Amongst the voices raised in praise were those of Arnold Bennett, Ernest Hemingway, Ezra Pound (who cited Manning as a literary mentor) and T. E. Lawrence, who claimed to have seen through the anonymity and recognised the author of \"Scenes and Portraits\". Be that as it may, \"Scenes and Portraits\" was re-published by Peter Davies in 1930, and Manning lived out his life basking in the afterglow of what is widely regarded as one of the very finest novels based upon the experiences of warfare. T.E. Lawrence said of \"The Middle Parts of Fortune\" that “your book be famous for as long as the war is cared for - and perhaps longer, for there is more than soldiering in it. You have been exactly fair to everyone, of all ranks: and all your people are alive.” Ernest Hemingway called it \"the finest and noblest novel to come out of World War I\".\n\nFrederic Manning never married. His biographers suggest he eschewed intimacy, and that his long-time host Galton and the hostesses of the literary salons which he visited should be seen as \"parent-substitute\" figures. Like his hero Bourne, Manning was a private person, who kept his own counsel. Manning died of respiratory diseases at a Hampstead nursing home. His obituary appeared in \"The Times\" on 26 February 1935. He is interred at Kensal Green cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33724487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33724487", "title": "Galina Kofman", "text": "Galina Kofman\n\nGalina Kofman is a computer scientist and business executive. She was the author of Kerberos (protocol) for various IBM systems. Kofman also authored FTP for IBM VM/CMS and OS/2. She received two IBM CEO Outstanding Technical Achievements awards and holds a patent on grid applications. Kofman is an executive at Recyclebank, a green company that rewards people for recycling.\n\nWhile a researcher at Thomas Watson Research Center, Galina Kofman worked in the group of Barry Appelman, a significant Internet notable and the inventor of instant messaging. Kofman was active in Internet protocols development and specifically in TCP/IP since 1983 with her first project of RLSS, a remote login system that was a predecessor of Telnet at IBM. Appelman's group as a whole proved critical in IBM's early embrace of the Internet despite having a competing family of protocols IBM Systems Network Architecture. Kofman authored Kerberos for OS/2, VM/CMS and AIX. She also authored FTP client and server for VM/CMS and OS/2. Kofman also authored Network Time Protocol for various IBM operating systems. Kofman also was active in algorithms related to processing unstructured text. Kofman was the program manager and the main developer of IBM Magic system in 2006 According to Recyclebank press release, Galina Kofman received 2 IBM CEO Outstanding achievement awards, one in 1990 and another in 1992.\n\nGalina Kofman is currently an executive at Recyclebank, a green company.\n"}
{"id": "44937683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44937683", "title": "Gracia Couturier", "text": "Gracia Couturier\n\nGracia Couturier (born August 14, 1951) is a Canadian educator and writer.\n\nShe was born in Edmundston, New Brunswick. She has lived in Moncton since the 1970s. Couturier received a BEd from the Université de Moncton. She taught school for several years and completed a master's degree in French literature in 1994.\n\nShe was a founding member of the Théâtre l'Escaouette in Moncton and was founding director of Théâtre de saisons du Centre universitaire de Shippagan. Her work includes children's literature, novels, plays and haiku. Couturier has also worked as a script writer and researcher for Radio-Canada.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818742", "title": "Henri Cernuschi", "text": "Henri Cernuschi\n\nHenri Cernuschi (\"Enrico Cernuschi\" in Italian) (19 February 1821 – 11 May 1896), was a major French banker, economist and Asian art collector, who started off as an Italian politician in 1848-1850.\n\nCernuschi was born of wealthy parents at Milan, and was destined for the legal profession. During his studies he became involved in the revolutionary movement. He played a conspicuous part in the insurrection at Milan in 1848, and also at Rome in 1849, where he had a seat in the National Assembly. On the collapse of the revolutionary government he was arrested (1850), but managed to escape to France, where he engaged in commerce and banking, became naturalized, and acquired a large fortune. He took a prominent part in opposing the Socialist movement, and in April 1870, having subscribed a large sum to the funds of a committee formed to combat the Napoleonic plebiscite, had to leave the country.\n\nIn September the formation of the Third Republic enabled Cernuschi to return, but he soon left Paris to travel in the Far East. He returned with a fine art collection that he would constantly expand upon for the remainder of his life. He bequeathed his collection to the city of Paris as well as his private residence at No 7. avenue Velasquez on the edge of Parc Monceau in the 8th arrondissement to be used as a museum. Open to the public today, the Cernuschi Museum collection includes Chinese art, funeral statuary, painted 8th-century silks, neolithic terracottas (3rd millennium BC), Japanese art (mostly bronze objects and sculptures, ceramics, paravents), ancient Persian bronze objects, an Amithaba Buddha from the 8th Century, plus examples of calligraphy.\n\nAs a banker, Cernuschi is best known for his publications on financial questions, more especially bimetallism. Of the latter he was an ardent champion, and the word itself is commonly supposed to have originated with him—at least in its English form it is first found in his \"Silver Vindicated\" (1876). Among his other works may be mentioned: \"Mécanique de l'échange\" (1861); \"Illusion des sociétés coopératives\" (1886); \"Le Bimétallisme en Angleterre\" (1879); \"Le Grand Procès de l'Union latine\" (1884).\n\nCernuschi died at Menton in May 1896, and was interred at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n"}
{"id": "50563174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50563174", "title": "Henry Bruton (auctioneer)", "text": "Henry Bruton (auctioneer)\n\nHenry Bruton was an auctioneer and the founder of the firm now known as Bruton Knowles.\n\nIn 1862, Henry Bruton moved to Gloucester, England and formed the estate agents and auctioneers \"Bruton, Knowles & Co.\" in partnership with William Knowles.\n\nHis sons were Henry Bruton and the member of Parliament for Gloucester Sir James Bruton.\n"}
{"id": "58155540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58155540", "title": "Heraldry of León", "text": "Heraldry of León\n\nThe first instance of a figure of the lion as symbol of the Kingdom of León is found in minted coins of Alfonso VII, called \"the Emperor\" (1126-1157). Until then, the cross had a preponderant position on documents and coins of Leonese monarchs since that reign the cross was gradually displaced by the lion. The Spanish historian and heraldist Martín de Riquer explained that the lion was already used as heraldic emblem in 1148. At the end of the reign of Alfonso VII, the figure of this animal began to appear on royal documents as personal device of the monarch and became pervasive during reigns of Ferdinand II (1157-1188) and Alfonso IX (1188-1230).\n\nThe first reference to the lion as personal emblem of the monarch, and thus the kingdom find in \"Chronica Adefonsi imperatoris\", at the times of Alfonso VII, this chronicle when describing participants armies in the taking of Almería, the text literally says: \n\nThe heraldic symbol of León is the prominent feature of flags of León, including the historical standards of the former Kingdom of León, the flags of the City of León and the Province of León, and others representing the region known as León or the Leonese Country.\n\nThe development of the modern heraldic language cannot be attributed to a single individual, time, or place. Although certain designs that are now considered heraldic were evidently in use during the eleventh century, most accounts and depictions of shields up to the beginning of the twelfth century contain little or no evidence of their heraldic character. For example, the Bayeux Tapestry, illustrating the Norman invasion of England in 1066, and probably commissioned about 1077, when the cathedral of Bayeux was rebuilt, depicts a number of shields of various shapes and designs, many of which are plain, while others are decorated with dragons, crosses, or other typically heraldic figures. Yet no individual is depicted twice bearing the same arms, nor are any of the descendants of the various persons depicted known to have borne devices resembling those in the tapestry.\n\nThe animals of the \"barbarian\" (Eurasian) predecessors of heraldic designs are likely to have been used as clan symbols.\nAdopted in Germanic tradition around the fifth century, they were re-interpreted in a Christian context in the western kingdoms of Gaul and Italy in the sixth and seventh centuries. \n\nDuring the eleventh century, crosses appearing on seals of Spanish princes and were used for authentication privileges until King Alfonso VII started using a lion (1126), alluding to the name of his main realm \"lion\" (), an example of canting arms. \n\nThe lion as a heraldic charge is present from the very earliest development of heraldry in the 12th century. One of the earliest known examples of armory as it subsequently came to be practiced decorates the tomb of Geoffrey Plantagenet, Count of Anjou, who died in 1151. An enamel, probably commissioned by Geoffrey's widow between 1155 and 1160, depicts him carrying a blue shield with golden lions rampant and wearing a blue helmet adorned with another lion. A chronicle dated to about 1175 states that Geoffrey was given a badge of a gold lion when he was knighted by his father-in-law, Henry I, in 1128. \n\nAlfonso VII's use of the lion as a heraldic emblem for León predates the earliest surviving Royal Arms of England, a single lion visible on a half-shield depicted on the First Great Seal (1189) of Richard I, as well as the three pale blue lions passant of Denmark (ca. 1194), the heraldry of the Holy Roman Empire (ca. 1200) and the French fleurs-de-lis coat (1211) although the fleur-de-lis was present on royal robes and ornaments since at least 1179. \n\nThat Alfonso VII took the lion on his banners and arms was due to the dominance of León in the kingdom. When other parts of the \"Chronica\" refer to the raising the royal standards in the taken enemy fortress, it is referring to some flags which depicted the lion. It is disputed whether this animal represented to the monarch or kingdom, in the first case the strength of the sovereign but it seems a clearer identification between the words \"\"Legio\" and \"leo\" that would imply the adoption of the feline as image of the city and the kingdom. In favour of the second hypothesis is the fact that in the author of the \"Chronica\" made a rhyme with the words \"legionis\" and \"leonis\"\".\n\nThe flag used in the Middle Ages is nothing like current ones. The lion was passant instead of rampant. All lions that appear on coins, devices and seals of Leonese monarchs are passant (sometimes dexter, others sinister). There are two exceptions, the lions rampant depicted on shields of Ferdinand II and Alfonso IX in their respective representations of the \"Tumbo A Manuscript\" of Santiago de Compostela Cathedral. These cases show lions rampant, the reason is that the heraldic charges should always arranged in such a way that they take up the greater part of the field. In the case of a shield/coat of arms, the size a lion passant is equivalent to one-third of the field. However, the figure in a vertical position, and enlarged, the figure takes up the available space. This also avoids \"horror vacui\", dominant in the medieval art, filling of the entire surface of a space or an artwork with detail.\n\nRelative to the tincture of the lion, in the representations of the \"Tumbo A Manuscript\", under the effigies of the monarchs are two lions passant in an attitude of attack and their color is purpure. \n\nIn the case of Alfonso IX, this lion is framed in a flag whose background is \"argent\" and has a narrow purple border. In addition, on the shield carrying by the monarch, the lion is that same tincture and the background is \"argent\" and the two lions passant que shown in the saddle have the same colors. The purple lion and the field argent were retained after the union with the Kingdom of Castile (1230) when the arms of the two kingdoms were combined in one shield displayed in a \"quartering\", during the reign of King Ferdinand III, called the Saint. There was no space for two visible lions passant at quarterings, so them were rampant to take up the divisions completely. This is the disposition of the lions that has come to the present day on the coat of arms of Castile and León, but the crowned lions were adopted by King Sancho IV (1284-1295).\n\nThe heraldic standard of the Leonese Monarch. It's one of the oldest heraldic flags; the documentation for the colours dates from ca. 1150. This flag, as an standard was not rectangular: it was a swallow-tailed flag and the fly edge is pointed. It consisted of a lion passant purple filled the greater part of the field. The background was white, or grey very light (\"Argent\").\n\nArmies from León, Extremadura, Asturias, Galician and even the Castilians fought under this flag at times of King Alfonso VII, but it was not until 1065 that the County of Castile was separated from León and became a kingdom in its own right. León kept this sign, but Castile was forced to create a new one. In the beginning the Castilians used a simple cross until the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa (1212) when Eleanor of England, wife of Alfonso VIII, designed the canting arms of the Kingdom of Castile: gules, a three towered castle or, masoned sable and ajouré azure. The choice of colors was not randomly: Eleanor based on the Royal Arms of England. In addition, these colors contrasted with the of the Leonese ones in the battlefield.\n\nThe blazon of the arms of the province of León is: \"Argent a lion rampant Gules crowned, langued and armed Or\". The provincial arms has as crest a former royal crown, without arches, orb and cross (used until the 16th century). The arms of the city of León is described as follows: \"Argent a lion rampant Purpure, langued and armed Gules\". The arms of the capital of the province has a marquesal coronet instead the former royal crown, are ornamented and the lion is not crowned.\n\nFerdinand III received the Kingdom of Castile from his mother, Queen Berengaria in 1217 and the Kingdom of León from his father Alfonso IX in 1230. From then on the two kingdoms were united under the name of the Crown of Castile. After the adoption of the quartering of the two kingdoms, King Sancho IV (1284-1295) introduced the crown on the head of the lion in the Leonese quarters. The field of the Castilian arms has led to the lion began to be wrongly \"gules\" (red). The 1833 territorial division of Spain divided the country into provinces. It was necessary to distinguish between the arms of the city and province. So it was decided to remove the crown to the lion used by the city, recovering the original. After the Spanish Civil War, Juan José Fernández Uzquiza, president of the Provincial Council, introduced in the arms of the province the tail facing the body of the lion.\n\nThe origin of the current flag is unknown, but probably not too old. The crimson flag with the royal arms in the center, proper of the Crown of Castile and the Hispanic Monarchy and it responds to a fairly late use. Secondly, the first description of a similar standard was found by the writer and linguist Waldo Merino Rubio in the \"Act of February 18, 1789\" of the Book of the Municipal Agreements (\"Filandón, Diario de León\" June 5, 1987). According to \"Act February 18, 1789\" the standard of the city was crimson, with six small escutcheons \"Argent\" with lions \"Or\" and silk. In the past, it was frequently to renew the standards kept by the councils in every royal proclamation, so the number of escutcheons were variable. Something back is the standard that is kept in the office of the Mayor of León with the arms of the city, with a lion \"Or\" and two small escutcheons at the edges embroidered on crimson damask. According the historian Ricardo Chao, this was the standard of the city of León and served as a model for the current Leonese flag in the nineteenth Century. After a time, it also became in the symbol of the province and the historical region of León. During the Spanish transition to democracy a Leonese autonomy movement arose. This Leonesism movement uses a purple flag charged with a coat of arms in the center containing a crowned \"Purpure\" lion and a former royal crown as crest. The Leonese sovereigntist movement included the arms used by the autonomy movement within a yellow star and without crowns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9332200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9332200", "title": "Herbert Murrill", "text": "Herbert Murrill\n\nHerbert Henry John Murrill (11 May 1909 – 25 July 1952) was an English musician, composer, and organist.\n\nMurrill was born in London. He studied at the Royal Academy of Music from 1925 to 1928 and thereafter was organ scholar at Worcester College, Oxford, from 1928 to 1931. In 1933 he married the concert pianist Alice Margaret Good. Murrill's second wife was the cellist Vera Canning. He was for a time in the 1930s organist of Christ Church, Lancaster Gate, London and St Thomas's Church, Regent Street, London.\n\nFrom 1933 until his death, he was Professor of Composition in the Royal Academy of Music. He was for a time in the late 1930s Musical Director of The Group Theatre. He also worked for the BBC from 1936 onwards (save for a period in the Intelligence Corps between 1942 and 1946, during part of which he time he served at Bletchley Park), reaching the post of Head of Music in 1950. He died in London.\n\nHis works include a jazz opera, \"Man in Cage\", which was performed in 1930 while he was still at university. He wrote film scores for \"And So To Work\" (1936) and \"The Daily Round\" (1937), both early films from the director Richard Massingham, as well as incidental music for two plays by W. H. Auden, \"The Dance of Death\" and \"The Dog Beneath the Skin\". He wrote two cello concertos, of which the second \"The Song of the Birds\" (1951), written for and dedicated to Pablo Casals and quoting , has been called his \"masterpiece\". He also wrote some chamber and vocal works, as well as several piano pieces.\n\nHowever, his most frequently performed works now are his choral and organ works: his setting of the \"Magnificat\" and \"Nunc dimittis\" in E major (published in 1947), an organ piece called \"Carillon\", and his arrangement for organ of the orchestral march \"Crown Imperial\" by William Walton. His piano duet arrangement of Walton's First Symphony was published by OUP. He was also responsible for the official, martial orchestral version of the Indian national anthem, approved by Jawaharlal Nehru before independence in 1947.\n\nThe \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" states that Murrill's affinities were Francophile and mildly middle-Stravinskian, both influences tempered by an English take on neo-classicism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1998351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1998351", "title": "Hiram Abiff", "text": "Hiram Abiff\n\nHiram Abiff (also Hiram Abif or the Widow's son) is the central character of an allegory presented to all candidates during the third degree in Freemasonry. \n\nHiram is presented as the chief architect of King Solomon's Temple, who is murdered in the Temple he designed by three ruffians as they unsuccessfully attempt to force him to divulge the Master Masons' secret passwords. The themes of the allegory are the importance of fidelity, and the certainty of death.\n\nThe tale of Hiram Abiff as passed down in Masonic Lodges underpins the third degree. It starts with his arrival in Jerusalem, and his appointment by Solomon as chief architect and master of works at the construction of his temple. As the temple is nearing completion, three fellowcraft masons from the workforce ambush him as he leaves the building, demanding the secrets of a master mason. Hiram is challenged by each in turn, and at each refusal to divulge the information his assailant strikes him with a mason's tool (differing between jurisdictions). He is injured by the first two assailants, and struck dead by the last. \n\nHis murderers hide his body under a pile of rubble, returning at night to move the body outside the city, where they bury it in a shallow grave marked with a sprig of acacia. As the Master is missed the next day, Solomon sends out a group of fellowcraft masons to search for him. The loose acacia is accidentally discovered, and the body exhumed to be given a decent burial. The hiding place of the \"three ruffians\" is also discovered, and they are brought to justice. Solomon informs his workforce that the secret word of a master mason is now lost. He replaces them with substitutes. The actual word is considered a secret by Masons, but for hundreds of years various \"revelations\" of the word have been made, usually all differing from each other. One such \"revelation\" is \"Mach-benak\" or \"decay-apparently\" based on gestures given and words spoken upon the discovery of Hiram's body. Such is the general legend as related in the Anglo-American jurisdictions.\n\nIn Continental Freemasonry the tale is slightly different: a large number of master masons (not just Hiram) are working on the Temple, and the three ruffians are seeking the passwords and signs that will give them a higher wage. The result is the same, but this time it is master masons who find the body. The secrets are not lost, but Solomon orders them buried under the Temple, inscribed on Hiram's grave, and the same substitution is made as a mark of respect. The secrets \"lost\" in the other tradition are here given to new master masons as part of their ritual. In this version, Hiram is often renamed Adoniram.\n\nAnderson's revised 1738 Constitutions describe the place of the Deputy Grand Master, to the left of the newly installed Grand Master John Montagu, 2nd Duke of Montagu, as the \"Chair of Hiram Abiff\".\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament, there are three separate instances of people named Hiram that were involved in the construction of the temple of Solomon:\n\n\nFlavius Josephus in his \"Antiquities of the Jews\" (Chapter 8:76) refers to Hiram as τεχνίτης, artificer, craftsman. \"Now Solomon sent for an artificer out of Tyre, whose name was Hiram: he was by birth of the tribe of Naphtali, on his mother's side (for she was of that tribe); but his father was Ur, of the stock of the Israelites.\"\n\nThe Targum Sheni, an Aramaic commentary on the Book of Esther written sometime between the fall of Rome and the Crusades, credits Hiram with the construction of a miraculous throne for Solomon, which in Esther's time is being used by the descendants of Cyrus the Great.\n\nThe most elaborate version of the legend occurs in Gérard de Nerval's 1851 account, \"Voyage en Orient\", where he relates the tale, inserting all the masonic passwords, as part of the story of Balkis, the \"Queen of the Morning\" and \"Soliman\", Prince of the Genii. This is an elaboration of the second version above, where the Master Craftsman is named Adoniram. Before his death, he undergoes mystical adventures as his tale is interwoven with that of Solomon and Balkis, the Queen of Sheba. The ruffians who kill him are under the instruction of Solomon himself. De Nerval relates the story as having been told in an Eastern coffee house over a two-week period. A similar account is given in Charles William Heckethorn's \"The Secret Societies of all Ages and Countries\", where Solomon plots to destroy Hiram because of the mutual love between Hiram and the Queen of Sheba. Meanwhile, in 1862, the whole adventure of Adoniram's love for Balkis and his murder by three workmen in the pay of Solomon had been set to music in Charles Gounod's opera, \"La reine de Saba\".\n\nAccording to authors Robert Lomas and Christopher Knight, the prototype for Hiram Abiff was the Egyptian king Seqenenre Tao II, who (they claim) died in an almost identical manner. This idea is dismissed by most Masonic scholars.\n\nIn his book \"The Sufis\", the Afghan scholar Idries Shah suggested that Dhul-Nun al-Misri might have been the origin of the character Hiram Abiff in the masonic Master Mason ritual. The link, he believes, was through the Sufi sect Al-Banna (\"The Builders\") who built the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. This fraternity could have influenced some early masonic guilds which borrowed heavily from the Oriental architecture in the creation of the Gothic style.\n\nThe French masonic historian Paul Naudon has highlighted the similarity between the death of Hiram and the murder of Renaud de Montauban in the late 12th Century chanson de geste, \"The Four Sons of Aymon\". Renaud, like his prototype Saint Reinold, was killed by a hammer-blow to the head while working as a mason at Cologne Cathedral, and his body hidden by his murderers before being miraculously re-discovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "2877036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2877036", "title": "Huematzin", "text": "Huematzin\n\nHuematzin () is mentioned in some Mesoamerican codices as being a sage and a member of Toltec nobility and scholar who lived during the end of the 8th century. It is unknown whether he was an actual historical person or a legendary figure. According to the Aztec chronicles he was the wisest man in Tollan, city of the Toltecs which may or may not be identical with the archeological site of Tula, and he owned many sacred books (called \"teoamoxtli\" in Nahuatl).\n\nHuematzin's name is in a manuscript by the indigenous scholar and nobleman Fernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxochitl, \"Relaciones Históricas\", written some time around 1600.\n"}
{"id": "30837848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30837848", "title": "Indian Gorkha", "text": "Indian Gorkha\n\nGorkhas=Indian Born Citizens\nNepalese=Nepal Born Citizens\nIndian Gorkhas are citizens of India as per the gazette notification of the Government of India on the issue of citizenship of the Gorkhas of India. However, the Indian Gorkhas are faced with a unique identity crisis with regard to their Indian citizenship because of the Indo-Nepal Treaty of Peace and Friendship (1950) that permits \"on a reciprocal basis, the nationals of one country in the territories of the other the same privileges in the matter of residence, ownership of property, participation in trade and commerce, movement and other privileges of a similar nature\". Thus, there are also many Nepalese citizens of Nepal living in India. Therefore, the Nepali-speaking Indian citizens are mistakenly identified as Nepalese citizens.\n\nThe Indian Gorkhas are a mixture of castes and tribal-ethnic clans. The caste groups include the Khas-Parbatiyas including Bahun (Brahmins), Chhetri, Kami, Damai, Sarki, etc. There is a considerable presence of Newar (Pradhan), Gurung, Magar, Tamang, Thami, Bhujel (Khawas), Rai (Khambu), Limbu (Subba), Sunuwar (Mukhia), Yakkha (Dewan), Sherpa, and Yolmo ethnic groups. Although each of them have their own language (belonging to the Tibeto-Burman or Indo-Aryan languages), the lingua franca among the Gorkhas is the Nepali language with its script in Devnagari, is one of the official languages of India.\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, a total of 2,926,168 people in India spoke Nepali as mother tongue. The largest populations can be found in West Bengal - 1,155,375 (+12.97% from 2001 Census), Assam - 596,210 (+5.56%), Uttarakhand - 106,399 (+16.86%), Sikkim - 382,200 (+12.87%), Arunachal Pradesh - 95,317 (+00.42%), HP - 89,508 (+27.37%), Maharashtra - 75,683 (+19.22%), Meghalaya - 54,716 (+4.91%), Manipur - 63,756 (+38.61%), Nagaland - 43,481 (+27.06%), and Mizoram - 8,994 (+0.51%). Apart from this, there are additional speakers of languages such as Limbu (40,835), Rai (15,644), Sherpa (16,012) and Tamang (20,154). So the combined strength of Nepali and the other four Gorkha languages comes to 3,018,813. \n\nAs per the 2001 Census, a total of 2,871,749 people in India spoke Nepali as mother tongue. As per the 1991 Census, this figure was 2,076,645. The largest populations can be found in West Bengal - 1,022,725 (+18.87% from 1991 Census), Assam - 564,790 (+30.58%), Uttarakhand - 355,029 (+255.53%), Sikkim - 338,606 (+32.05%), Arunachal Pradesh - 94,919 (+16.93%), HP - 70,272 (+50.64%), Maharashtra - 63,480 (+59.69%), Meghalaya - 52,155 (+6.04%), Manipur - 45,998 (-1.08%), Nagaland - 34,222 (+6.04%), and Mizoram - 8,948 (+8.50%).\n\nAs per the 2001 Census, districts with the largest Gorkha populations are West Kameng - 13,580 (18.2% of the total population) Lohit - 22,200 (15.77%), and Dibang Valley - 15,452 (26.77%). Tehsils with the largest proportion of Gorkhas are Koronu (55.35%), Kibithoo (50.68%), Sunpura (42.28%), Vijoynagar (42.13%), and Roing (32.39%).\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, districts with the largest Gorkha populations are West Kameng - 14,333 (17.1% of the total population) Lohit - 22,988 (13.77%), and Dibang Valley - 14,271 (22.99%). Tehsils with the largest proportion of Nepalis are Koronu (48.49%), Kibithoo (6.5%), Sunpura (34.47%), Vijoynagar (41.8%), and Roing (26.0%).\n\nDuring the 1991 Census, the districts with the largest concentrations were Sonitpur - 91,631 (6.43%), Tinsukia - 76,083 (7.91%), and Karbi Anglong - 37,710 (5.69%).\n\nAs per the 2001 Census, districts with the largest Gorkha populations are Sonitpur - 131,261 (7.81% of the total population) Tinsukia - 87,850 (7.64%), and Karbi Anglong - 46,871 (5.76%). Tehsils with the largest proportion of Gorkhas are Sadiya (27.51%), Na Duar (16.39%), Helem (15.43%), Margherita (13.10%), and Umrangso (12.37%). \n\nAs per the 2011 Census, districts with the largest Gorkha populations are Sonitpur - 135,525 (7.04% of the total population) Tinsukia - 99,812 (7.52%), and Karbi Anglong - 51,496 (5.38%). Tehsils with the largest proportion of Gorkhas are Sadiya (26.2%), Na Duar (14.88%), Helem (14.35%), Margherita (13.47%), and Umrangso (12.46%).\n\nThis is how the previous censuses counted the number of Nepali speaking Gorkhas in Assam:\n\n\nAs per the 2001 Census, there are a total of 1,034,038 Gorkhas in WB, of which 1,022,725 are speakers of the Nepali language and 11,313 are speakers of languages such as Tamang and Sherpa. districts with the largest Gorkha populations are Darjeeling - 748,023 (46.48% of the total population) and Jalpaiguri - 234,500 (6.99%). About 7.56% of the Nepalis were Dalit, belonging to castes such as Kami and Sarki (population of 78,202 in 2001). The two tribes classified as Scheduled Tribe (Limbu and Tamang) constituted 16% of the Gorkha population according to the census. The remaining 76% belonged to general category.\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, there were a total of 1,161,807 speakers of various Nepalese languages. Out of this 7.24% was Dalit (84,110) and 16.62% (193,050) were tribal Tamang/Limbu. Remaining 76.14% were General category.\n\nAs per the 2011 Census, there were a total of 453,819 speakers of various Nepalese languages (Nepali - 382,200, Limbu - 38,733, Sherpa - 13,681, Tamang - 11,734 and Rai - 7,471). Out of this, 20.14% (91,399) were tribal Limbu/Tamang, 6.23% (28,275) were Dalit and 73.63% were General category.\n\nAccording to the census, there are a total of 53,703 Limbu and 37,696 Tamang in Sikkim, of whom a majority speak the Nepali language as their mother tongue. Also, small numbers of Bhotia and Lepcha also speak the Nepali language as their mother tongue. As per the 2011 Census, there were a total of 69,598 Bhotia in Sikkim (including Sherpa, Tibetan.etc), but only 58,355 were speaking languages such as Sikkimese and Sherpa. Out of the 42,909 Lepcha there were only 38,313 speakers for the Lepcha language.\n\nAs per the 2011 census, Tehsils with the largest proportion of Gorkhali's are Sadar Hills West (33.0%), Saitu-Gamphazol (9.54%), and Lamshang (10.85%). Districts with the largest Gorkha population are Senapati - 39,039 (8.15%), Imphal West - 10,391 (2.01%) and Imphal East - 6,903 (1.51%).\n\nThis is how the previous censuses counted the number of Nepali language speakers in Manipur:\n\n\nGorkha population is mostly concentrated in the districts of East Khasi Hills (37,000 or 4.48%) and Ribhoi (10,524 or 4.07%). Tehsils with the largest concentration include Myliem (8.18%) and Umling (6.72%). \n\nAmong the cities, the highest concentration of Nepali speakers can be found in Shillong Cantonment (29.98%), Shillong (9.83%), Pynthormukhrah (7.02%), Nongmynsong (26.67%), Madanriting (17.83%), and Nongkseh (14.20%).\n\nThis is how the previous censuses counted the number of Nepali speaker Gorkhas in Meghalaya:\n\n\nMost of the Gorkha population are found in the districts of Dimapur (21,596 or 5.70%) and Kohima (9,812 or 3.66%). Tehsils with the largest concentration are Naginimora (7.48%), Merangmen (6.78%), Niuland (6.48%), Kuhoboto (7.04%), Chumukedima (7.07%), Dhansiripar (6.09%), Medziphema (9.11%), Namsang (8.81%), Kohima Sadar (6.27%), Sechu-Zubza (5.03%), and Pedi (7.61%).\n\nNepalis in India have faced violence and ethnic cleansing, especially in the north-eastern states. In 1967, more than 8,000 Nepalis were driven out of Mizoram, while more than 2,000 in Manipur met with the same fate in 1980. Tens of thousands of Nepalis were banished from Assam (in 1979) and Meghalaya (in 1987) by the local militia groups. The biggest displacement occurred in Meghalaya, when the Khasi Students' Union (KSU) targeted Nepalis living in the eastern part of the state. More than 15,000 Nepalis were driven out (mostly to Nepal), while about 10,000 were reduced to living in subhuman life in the refugee camps of Shillong. In 2010, there were riots between Khasis and the Gorkhas, which left several Gorkhas dead. One elderly Gorkha man was burnt alive.\n\n\n\n\nTenzing Sherpa ( Mountainer Everester)\nDhansingh Thapa ( Hockey)\nGanu Giri Boxing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1442176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442176", "title": "Joe Jackson (manager)", "text": "Joe Jackson (manager)\n\nJoseph Walter Jackson (July 26, 1927 – June 28, 2018) was an American talent manager and patriarch of the Jackson family of entertainers that includes his children Michael and Janet. He was inducted into the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame as a member of the class of 2014.\n\nJoseph Walter Jackson was born to Samuel Jackson (1893–1993), a schoolteacher, and Crystal Lee King (1907–1992), in Fountain Hill, Arkansas, on July 26, 1928 (although, according to the Arkansas Black Hall of Fame and Katherine Jackson's book, \"My Family, The Jacksons\", the year was 1929). Samuel Jackson was the son of Israel Nero Jackson, a former slave. Nero’s father was July “Jack” Gale, a Choctaw who was known to heal people. Jack fell in love with a slave named Gina Milam and had their first son Israel Gale, who later changed his surname to “Jackson” in honour of his father. Joseph Jackson was the eldest of five children. He was of African and Native American Ancestry.\n\nJackson recalled from early childhood that his father was domineering and strict, and he described himself in his memoir, \"The Jacksons\", as a \"lonely child that had only few friends\". After his parents separated when he was twelve, his mother, two brothers, and sister moved to East Chicago, Indiana, a suburb outside Chicago in Northwest Indiana, and he moved with his father to Oakland, California. When he was 18, after his father remarried, he moved to East Chicago to live with his mother, two brothers, and sister. He soon got a job in East Chicago at Inland Steel Company, but did not finish high school. While in East Chicago, he began to pursue his dreams of becoming a boxer and found success with the Golden Gloves program. While he was preparing for a professional boxing career, he met 17-year-old Katherine Scruse, who also lived in East Chicago and attended Washington High School; Joe married another woman and in less than a year he was divorced before he started dating Katherine.\n\nJoseph and Katherine were married on November 5, 1949. In January 1950, they purchased a small two-bedroom home on 2300 Jackson Street near East Chicago in Gary, Indiana. The Jacksons' first child, Maureen Reillette \"Rebbie\" Jackson, was born four months later on May 29, 1950, in the Jackson house. Still employed at Inland Steel, Jackson left his hopes of becoming a professional boxer in order to support his family, and began working there as a full-time crane operator. He later took a second part-time job at American Foundries in East Chicago. In the meantime, his wife Katherine tended to their growing family. Eventually in the late 1950s she started working part-time at Sears in Gary. The Jacksons would go on to have ten children (their son Brandon Jackson died just after he was born). During the early 1950s, Jackson briefly performed with his own blues band The Falcons, playing guitar. Despite their efforts, The Falcons did not get a recording deal and subsequently broke up after one of their members, Thornton \"Pookie\" Hudson, founded his own band in 1952. That band would go on to become a successful doo-wop group named The Spaniels.\n\nJoseph Jackson began working with his sons' musical group in the early 1960s, first working with his three eldest sons, Jackie, Tito and Jermaine. Younger sons Marlon and Michael eventually joined the backing band. Joseph began enforcing long and intense rehearsals for his sons. At first, the group went under \"The Jackson Brothers\". Following the inclusions of Marlon and Michael in the group and Michael's increased vocal presence within the group, their name was changed to \"The Jackson 5\". After a couple of years performing in talent contests and high school functions, Joseph booked them in more and more respectable venues until they landed a spot at the renowned Apollo Theater in Harlem, New York City. On November 21, 1967, \"The Jackson 5\" were signed by Jackson to their first professional contract with Gordon Keith, owner and first president of Steeltown Records in Gary, Indiana. The group's first single \"Big Boy,\" with Michael as the lead singer, was released by Keith on January 31, 1968 on the Steeltown label. \"Big Boy\" became a local hit and the brothers became local celebrities after it was played on radio stations in the Chicago-Gary area. Within the year, Jackson helped to land his sons an audition for Motown Records in Detroit. \"The Jackson 5\" were signed with Motown in March 1969.\n\nJackson later relocated his family to California and supervised every recording session the group made for Motown. The group began to receive nationwide fame after their first single for Motown, \"I Want You Back\", hit #1 following its release on October 7, 1969, followed by their first album, \"Diana Ross Presents The Jackson 5\" in December 1969. After the Jackson 5's first four singles, \"I Want You Back\" (\"The Jackson 5\", 1969), \"ABC\" (\"The Jackson 5\", 1970), \"The Love You Save\" (\"The Jackson 5\", 1970), and \"I'll Be There\" (\"The Jackson 5\", 1970) sold 10 million copies in 10 months, setting a world record for sales, it became clear to Jackson that his dream to make his sons the first African-American teenagers to become internationally known recording stars had come true.\n\nIn 1973, wanting to reassert his control, Jackson had his family, including youngest son Randy, and daughters Rebbie, La Toya and Janet perform at casinos and resorts in Las Vegas, inspired by the success of fellow family act, The Osmonds.\n\nJoseph had also formed his own record label, \"Ivory Tower International Records\" and signed artists under his management in which they toured internationally with The Jackson 5 as opening acts in 1974. In 1975, the Jackson 5, with the exception of Jermaine, left Motown and signed a lucrative deal with Epic Records. Michael Jackson had brokered a deal where they could eventually produce their own songs, leading to Motown retaining the Jackson 5 name, so they renamed themselves \"The Jacksons\" in 1976.\n\nIn 1978, Joseph's youngest son, Randy, released his solo single \"How Can I Be Sure\" on Joseph's record label. In 1982, Joseph established Janet Jackson's career at age 16 as a recording artist while managing her. He financed the recording of his daughter's first demo then, arranged her a recording contract with A&M Records and began recording her debut album, overseen by him.\n\nJoseph was alleged to have engaged in a lasting extramarital affair; this prompted Katherine to file for divorce on March 9, 1973 with a Los Angeles County clerk, but she chose to rescind the divorce papers.\n\nThe following year, Joseph fathered a child with Cheryl Terrell; their daughter, Joh'Vonnie Jackson, was born on August 30, 1974. This led Joseph and Cheryl to a 23-year-long affair while raising their daughter Joh'Vonnie. Katherine attempted once again to divorce her husband in 1982, but again was persuaded to drop the action. Joseph then moved away to Las Vegas, with Katherine remaining at the Jackson family home \"Hayvenhurst\" in Encino, California. Despite living separately, Katherine and Joe remained legally married until his death in 2018; Katherine denied the rumours that she and Joseph were estranged.\n\nJackson had eleven children, ten with his wife Katherine Jackson (née Scruse):\n\n\nIn the late 1980s, Joseph's image as a father became tarnished as the media reported stories told by his children that he was abusive towards them. When he managed his family, he allegedly ordered each of them to call him \"Joseph\", which contributed to several siblings having been estranged from him. Michael Jackson claimed that from a young age he was physically and emotionally abused by his father, enduring incessant rehearsals, whippings and name-calling, but also admitting that his father's strict discipline played a large part in his success. Michael first spoke openly about his childhood abuse in a 1993 interview with Oprah Winfrey. He said that during his childhood he often cried from loneliness. Michael recalled that Joseph sat in a chair with a belt in his hand as Michael and his siblings rehearsed and that \"if you didn't do it the right way, he would tear you up, really get you.\" Joseph admitted to whipping his children with switches and belts as punishment, but said he did not do so at random, and claimed never to have used any hard object as he felt was implied by the word \"beating.\"\n\nDespite the abuse allegations, Michael honored his father with an annual \"Joseph Jackson Day\" at Neverland Ranch and ultimately forgave him, noting that Joseph's deep-South upbringing during the Great Depression and the Jim Crow years and working-class adulthood hardened him emotionally and made him push his children to succeed as entertainers.\n\nBoth Joe and Katherine have denied the characterization of abuse. Katherine has said that while the whippings may be viewed as abuse by current generations, such methods were normal ways to discipline children for misbehavior in those days. Other siblings, Jackie, Tito, Jermaine and Marlon, have denied that their father had been abusive. Some of Jackson's sons went on to be at the center of various abuse cases, with Randy being charged with beating his wife and daughter.\n\nJoseph Jackson was portrayed by Lawrence Hilton-Jacobs in the mini-series \"\", and by Frederic Tucker in the 2004 VH1 biopic \"\".\n\nIn 2011, Jackson was inducted into the Arkansas Black Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2014, Jackson accepted the award on behalf of his son Michael, when he was inducted into the Rhythm & Blues Music Hall of Fame with a Lifetime Achievement Award. The following year he was awarded The Rhythm & Blues 2015 Humanitarian Award. In June 2015, Jackson appeared at the BET Awards 2015 with daughter Janet Jackson as she accepted the Ultimate Icon Award.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, Jackson was rushed into a hospital after a stroke and heart arrhythmia while celebrating his 87th birthday in Brazil. He was not stable enough to fly out of the country for further treatment until two weeks later. Upon his arrival to Los Angeles, California on August 11, he was treated at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center to correct his blurred vision following the stroke.\n\nIn January 2017, Jackson's brother Lawrence died.\n\nOn June 22, 2018, TMZ reported that Jackson was hospitalized in Las Vegas in the final stages of terminal pancreatic cancer. He died at a hospice in Las Vegas on June 27, two days after the ninth anniversary of his son Michael's death and less than a month before his 91st birthday. He was surrounded by his wife and his surviving children.\n\n"}
{"id": "335085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335085", "title": "John Breaux", "text": "John Breaux\n\nJohn Berlinger Breaux (; born March 1, 1944) is an American attorney and retired politician who was a member of the United States Senate from Louisiana from 1987 until 2005. He was also a member of the US House of Representatives from 1972 to 1987. He was considered one of the more conservative national legislators from the Democratic Party. Breaux was a member of the New Democrat Coalition. After his congressional tenure, he became a lobbyist, co-founding the Breaux-Lott Leadership Group. The firm was later acquired by law and lobbying firm Patton Boggs, now Squire Patton Boggs.\n\nBreaux was born in Crowley, Louisiana, on March 1, 1944. He graduated from the University of Southwestern Louisiana (now called the University of Louisiana at Lafayette) in Lafayette in 1964 and from Louisiana State University Law School in Baton Rouge in 1967. After graduation, he practiced law, and then served as an assistant to U.S. Representative Edwin Edwards. He was also a member of Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity.\n\nBreaux was elected as a Democrat to the 92nd United States Congress in a special election on September 30, 1972, to fill the vacancy created by Edwards' resignation in order to become governor. Breaux's campaign manager was Ron Faucheux, a recent graduate of Georgetown University and later a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives and a nationally known political consultant and pundit from New Orleans. At the age of twenty-eight, Breaux was the youngest member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Breaux was re-elected with ease to the seven succeeding Congresses and served until January 3, 1987.\n\nHe was not a candidate for re-election to the House of Representatives in 1986, but was instead elected as a Democrat to the United States Senate. In the 1986 jungle primary, Breaux finished second (447,328 or 37.3 percent) to Sixth District Republican Congressman W. Henson Moore, III, of Baton Rouge (529,433 or 44.2 percent). State Senator Samuel B. Nunez polled another 73,504 votes (6.7 percent). In the general election, Breaux turned the tables on Moore: 723,586 (52.8 percent) to 646,311 (47.2 percent), a margin of 77,275 ballots. Thereafter, Moore took a sub-Cabinet position with the administration of George H. W. Bush, and Breaux took the Senate seat that he would hold for eighteen years. Breaux was not seriously opposed in the 1992 and 1998 elections. In the latter contest, current state insurance commissioner Jim Donelon opposed Breaux, as did perennial candidate L.D. Knox of Winnsboro, who in 1979 legally changed his name to \"None of the Above\" Knox to highlight support for the \"None of the Above\" option on ballots.\n\nOn October 15, 1991, Breaux was one of seven Southern Democrats who voted to confirm the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court in a 52 to 48 vote, the narrowest margin of approval in more than a century.\n\nBreaux was seen as a centrist in a Senate divided along partisan lines, and was frequently sought out by Republican leaders to corral a few Democratic votes when they needed them; conversely he also often served as the Democratic emissary in attempts to gather a few moderate Republicans to win votes on their proposals. He was pro-life and a supporter of Second Amendment rights, though he gradually moderated his position on gun control. He was more conservative on taxes than most in his party and challenged many environmental protections. He voted in favor of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), welfare reform, the balanced budget amendment, and tighter bankruptcy laws. He was a key Democratic supporter of Republican attempts to abolish the estate tax and in 2001 was among the minority of Democrats to support Bush's tax cut and opposed virtually all attempts by Democrats to alter it. However Breaux had voted with the majority of Democrats in favor of the 1993 Budget. In 2003 he submitted an amendment to reduce the tax cut to $350 billion. In 1995 he notably voted twice with more liberal elements of his party against the widely approved lawsuit reform measures, the Common Sense Product Liability and Legal Reform Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Both acts were vetoed by President Bill Clinton, although the second act was passed over his veto.\n\nOn June 22, 2004, Breaux cast the lone vote against amendment, S.A. 3464, which would increase the maximum fine from $27,500 to $275,000 when the FCC determines a broadcaster is guilty of \"obscene, indecent or profane language.\" Breaux also opposed the loosening of FCC rules that would allow cross-media platforms in the same community to fall under a single owner.\n\nIn 1993, Breaux was elected by Senate Democrats as Deputy Majority Whip, a position he held until his retirement. He also held a number of key Senate committee positions. A senior member of the Finance Committee, Senator Breaux served as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Social Security and Family Policy. From his position on the Finance Committee, he helped build the coalition that passed welfare reform and health insurance reform bills in 1996. He also pushed for a reduction in the capital gains tax and for tax relief for college education expenses. In 1998, Breaux was selected by the White House and House and Senate leaders to chair the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare. Also in 1998, Senator Breaux co-chaired the National Commission on Retirement Policy, which produced legislation to help reform Social Security.\n\nBreaux was the principal architect of the $400 billion Medicare Prescription Drug Modernization Act.\n\nBreaux was a founder of the bipartisan Senate Centrist Coalition and served as chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council.\n\nBreaux's state director and press secretary was the journalist Robert \"Bob\" Mann, who holds the\nDouglas Manship Chair of Journalism at Louisiana State University.\n\nIn the 2003 Louisiana gubernatorial campaign, after flirting briefly with the possibility of running himself, Breaux campaigned hard for the successful Democratic candidate, Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Lafayette. That same year, Breaux was inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield.\n\nHe announced that he would not run for re-election in 2004; by most accounts he was so popular that he would have breezed to a fourth term had he chosen to run again. He was succeeded in the Senate by Republican David Vitter of suburban New Orleans. Though Breaux was considered a popular politician in Louisiana, he was unable to dictate his successor in the Senate, as had Russell Long and J. Bennett Johnston, Jr. He endorsed the losing Democratic candidate, Chris John, lawmaker from the same Seventh District that Breaux had earlier represented.\n\nIn February 2005, Breaux took a position as Distinguished Professor in the Douglas Manship School of Mass Communication at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Since 2005, Breaux has been a lobbyist for Washington, DC, firm Squire Patton Boggs, specializing in issues of health care and energy law.\n\nSince leaving office, Breaux has spearheaded his own national campaign, \"Ceasefire on Health Care: Finding Common Ground for the Uninsured.\" Breaux coined the campaign name as a play on the CNN TV program \"Crossfire\", which he points out has been canceled. Breaux has hosted multiple events with prominent members of both parties to establish a dialogue that will lead to real healthcare reform. Breaux developed the campaign alongside American University's Center for Congressional and Presidential Studies.\n\nBeginning in February 2007, there was much speculation among Louisiana political commentators as to whether Breaux would announce his candidacy in the 2007 Louisiana governors' race. Breaux, arguably the most popular Democratic politician in Louisiana, was considering entering the race, if Blanco would be willing to step aside for Breaux. On March 20, 2007, Blanco announced that she would not run for re-election as governor. On March 29, 2007, John Breaux made his first Louisiana public appearance since speculation began concerning his potential candidacy. Breaux said that he intended to run, and would announce his candidacy as soon as Louisiana Attorney General Charles Foti, a Democrat, gave a formal legal opinion on whether Breaux was eligible to run. It was alleged that he would not meet the residency requirements to run for governor as he is registered to vote, and has listed his primary address in Maryland since 2005. At issue was the clause in the Louisiana constitution that states that a candidate for governor must be a 'citizen' of the State of Louisiana; what constitutes a citizen is not defined.\n\nOn April 13, 2007, Breaux released a statement that he would not be running for governor. Attorney-General Foti had declined to issue an opinion on Breaux's eligibility, stating it was an issue for the courts to decide. Breaux stated that he did not want the issue of eligibility to overshadow his campaign, as a court challenge would not occur until September.\n\nBreaux also serves on the Board of Directors for CSX Transportation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1520330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520330", "title": "Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith", "text": "Juana María de los Dolores de León Smith\n\nJuana María de los Dolores de León Smith, Lady Smith (27 March 1798 – 12 October 1872) was the wife of General Sir Harry Smith, Governor of the Cape Colony.\n\nBorn into an old Spanish noble family, she was a descendant of Juan Ponce de León.\n\nIn 1812, at the age of fourteen, she found herself orphaned and only with a sister, when her home town Badajoz was besieged for the fourth time during the Peninsular War. After the siege ended in a successful but very bloody storming by the British and Portuguese forces, the sisters sought protection from the plundering and pillaging soldiers by some British officers they found camping outside the city walls. One of them was Brigade-Major Harry Smith, of the elite 95th Rifles scout regiment, whom she married a few days later.\n\nInstead of letting herself be sent home to her husband's family, she chose to accompany him with the army. She remained with him throughout the rest of the war, accompanying the baggage train, sleeping in the open on the field of battle, riding freely among the troops, and sharing all the privations of campaigning. Her beauty, courage, sound judgment and amiable character endeared her to the officers, including the Duke of Wellington, who spoke of her familiarly as Juanita; and she was idolized by the soldiers.\n\nWith the exception of his stint in the British-American War of 1812 she accompanied her husband in all his deployments, most notably in two postings in South Africa, where Sir Harry (he had been knighted in the meantime) served as Governor of Cape Colony and High Commissioner.\n\nJuana Smith was given a pension of £500 by Parliament on 5 December 1848 in recognition of her husband's services to the country.\n\nKnown as Lady Smith in her later years, Juana Smith is commemorated directly in the name of Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa and Ladismith, Western Cape, South-Africa, as well as indirectly in the name of Ladysmith, British Columbia, Canada.\n\nLady Smith is sometimes said to have introduced the cantaloupe or muskmelon (\"Cucumis melo cantalupensis\") to South Africa, where it is known as \"spanspek\" (or \"spanspec\" or \"sponspe(c)k\"), which in Afrikaans literally means 'Spanish bacon' (\"Spaanse spek\"). However, the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" shows that the term 'Spanish bacon' had been in use since at least the eighteenth century.\n\nJuana Smith and her husband are the central characters in the historic novel \"The Spanish Bride\" by Georgette Heyer, which spans the period from just before their meeting after the Battle of Badajoz to the aftermath of the Battle of Waterloo in the latter part of the Napoleonic Wars. The couple also appear at the end of Georgette Heyer's \"An Infamous Army\" and are referenced in Sheila Walsh's historical romance novel \"Improper Acquaintances\". Juana Smith is also briefly noted in the afterword of \"Sharpe's Company\" by Bernard Cornwell.\n\nAlthough it focuses primarily on her husband, Juana Smith is a central character in the 1984 book \"The Other Side of the Hill\" by Peter Luke, which recounts their meeting and first few years of their marriage during the latter part of the Peninsular War and the Waterloo campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249897", "title": "Keira Knightley", "text": "Keira Knightley\n\nKeira Christina Knightley (born 26 March 1985) is an English actress. She has worked in the British and American film industries, and has starred in Broadway and West End theatre productions. She has won an Empire Award and multiple nominations for British Academy, Golden Globe, and Academy Awards.\n\nKnightley began acting as a child on television and made her feature film debut in 1995; she played such supporting roles as Sabé in \"\" (1999) and Frankie Smith in the psychological horror film \"The Hole\" (2001). She made her breakthrough with the 2002 film \"Bend It Like Beckham\", and achieved international fame in 2003 after playing Elizabeth Swann in the $4.5 billion-grossing \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film series. Her portrayal of Elizabeth Bennet in the 2005 romantic drama film \"Pride & Prejudice\" earned her critical acclaim and a Best Actress nomination at the Academy Awards. She later became known for her roles as the heroines of other such period dramas as the 2007 productions \"Atonement\" and \"Silk\" and the 2012 release \"Anna Karenina\".\n\nKnightley's performances in independent films including the dramas \"The Duchess\" (2009) and \"Never Let Me Go\" (2010) were well received; both the roles earned her nominations at the British Independent Film Awards. In 2014, she was nominated for the London Film Critics' Circle's British Actress of the Year Award for her performances as an aspiring singer-songwriter in the musical romantic comedy \"Begin Again\", a young underachiever in the comedy drama \"Laggies\", and Joan Clarke in the historical drama \"The Imitation Game\". For the last of the aforementioned, she also garnered nominations for a Golden Globe and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. The same year, she appeared in the Kenneth Branagh-helmed action thriller \"\". In 2018, she was lauded for her portrayal of French novelist Gabrielle Colette in the biographical film \"Colette\".\n\nKnightley's West End debut in Martin Crimp's 2009 production \"The Misanthrope\" was well received and earned her a nomination for a Laurence Olivier Award. She also starred as the eponymous heroine in the 2015 Broadway production of the 1873 naturalist play \"Thérèse Raquin\". She was appointed as the Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for her services to drama and charity.\n\nKeira Christina Knightley was born on 26 March 1985 in Teddington, Greater London, to theatre actors Sharman Macdonald and Will Knightley. Her mother is of Scottish and Welsh descent, while her father is English. She was meant to be named \"Kiera\", the Anglicized form of \"Kira\", a name influenced by the Russian ice skater, Kira Ivanova, whom her father admired. However, Macdonald misspelled the name when she went to register her daughter, writing the \"e\" before the \"i\". Knightley has an elder brother, Caleb. Macdonald also worked as a playwright after her career as an actress came to an end. She introduced her children to theatre and ballet at an early age. This furthered Knightley's interest in acting, and she requested an agent at the age of three.\n\nKnightley grew up in a modest household in Richmond, London, where she attended Stanley Junior School and Teddington School. At the age of six, she was diagnosed with dyslexia but by the time she was eleven, with her parents' support and much tuition, Knightley said: \"they deemed me to have got over it sufficiently\". She is still a slow reader and cannot read out loud. Knightley has noted that she was \"single-minded about acting\" during her childhood. At the age of three Knightley expressed the desire for an agent like her parents', she eventually got one at age six. This led to her taking a number of small parts in TV dramas throughout her childhood. While growing up, Knightley performed in a number of local amateur productions, which included \"After Juliet\", written by her mother, and \"United States\", written by her drama teacher, Ian McShane. She focused on art, history, and English literature while studying at the Esher College, but left after a year to pursue a full-time acting career.\n\nAfter getting an agent at the age of six, Knightley began working in commercials and small television roles. Her first on-screen appearance was in the 1993 television film, \"Royal Celebration\". She then played Natasha Jordan, a young girl whose mother is involved in an extramarital affair, in the romantic drama \"A Village Affair\" (1995). After appearing in a spate of television films through the mid-to-late 1990s, including \"Innocent Lies\" (1995), \"The Treasure Seekers\" (1996), \"Coming Home\" (1998), and \"Oliver Twist\" (1999), Knightley landed the role of Sabé, Padmé Amidala's handmaiden and decoy, in the 1999 science fiction blockbuster \"\". Her dialogue was dubbed over by Natalie Portman, who played Padmé. Knightley was cast in the role because of her close resemblance to Portman; even the two actors' mothers had difficulty telling their daughters apart when they were in full make-up.\n\nIn her first major role, the 2001 Walt Disney Productions feature film \"Princess of Thieves\", Knightley played the daughter of Robin Hood. To prepare for the film, she trained for several weeks in archery, fencing and horse riding. Concurrently, she appeared in \"The Hole\", a thriller that received a direct-to-video release in the United States. The film's director Nick Hamm described her as \"a young version of Julie Christie\". Knightley also took on the role of Lara Antipova in the miniseries adaptation of \"Doctor Zhivago\", which first aired in 2002 to positive reviews and high ratings. In the same year, Knightley starred as a pregnant drug addict in Gillies MacKinnon's drama film \"Pure\". Co-starring Molly Parker and Harry Eden, the film had its world premiere at the 2002 Toronto International Film Festival. In a retrospect review for AboutFilm.com, Carlo Cavagna noted Knightley's screen presence and wrote that \"[although Knightley] doesn't have half of Parker's ability [...], she has spunk and grit [and] shines brightly in \"Pure\"\".\n\nDespite having appeared in over a dozen film and television roles, Knightley struggled to get a breakthrough. That changed in 2002, when she starred in Gurinder Chadha's sports comedy film \"Bend It Like Beckham\", which was a smash hit both in the UK and the United States, grossing over $76.6 million. It also surprised film critics who were laudatory of its \"charming\" and \"inspiring\" nature, social context and the cast's performances. Knightley and her co-star Parminder Nagra, who played the central roles of aspiring footballers, attracted international attention for their performances in the film. To prepare for their roles, they underwent three months of extensive football training under the English football coach Simon Clifford. Knightley, who was initially skeptical of the project, went on to win the London Film Critics' Circle for Best Newcomer and the Online Film Critics Society Award for Best Breakthrough Performance. In an interview with Tracy Smith she said, \"I remember telling friends I was doing this girls' soccer movie [...] And nobody thought that it was gonna be any good.\" Film critic James Berardinelli, who was largely laudatory of the film and the \"energetic and likable\" cast, noted that Knightley and Nagra brought, \"a lot of spirit to their instantly likable characters\".\n\nFollowing the success of \"Bend It Like Beckham\", Knightley landed the role of Elizabeth Swann, in the 2003 American fantasy swashbuckler film \"\". The film, which was based on the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction at Disney theme parks, saw Knightley, Orlando Bloom, and Johnny Depp play the roles of 18th century pirates. Despite boasting the names of Hollywood stars like Depp and Bloom and a hefty $135 million budget, \"Pirates\" was not the most anticipated release of the year, and was expected to fail at the box-office. Knightley herself was not optimistic about its prospects: \"I remember being on set just sort of going, 'OK, what is this? Is this any good?\" However, contrary to the expectations, the film opened at no. 1 on the box-office, and went to become one of the highest grossing productions of the year, with the worldwide collections of $654 million.\n\nKnightley appeared in the $247 million grossing British romantic comedy \"Love Actually\", which featured an ensemble cast, including her childhood idol Emma Thompson. The film opened in November 2003 to positive critical feedback. Knightley's sole release of 2004 was the historical film \"King Arthur\", where she played Guinevere, a warrior queen and the wife of the titlular character. a role that required her to learn boxing, archery and horse-riding. Although the film garnered unfavorable reviews, Knightley's stature as a performer grew; she was voted by the readers of \"Hello\" magazine as the industry's most promising teen star, and featured in \"Time\" magazine's article, which stated that she seemed dedicated to develop herself as a serious actor rather than a film star.\n\nKnightley appeared in three films in 2005, the first of which was the psychological thriller \"The Jacket\", co-starring Adrien Brody. In a mixed review for \"Empire\", Kim Newman wrote that the role was unlike the ones that she had previously taken up : \"getting out of period gear and talking American, tries to broaden her range and is arguably well-cast\". Knightley next played the titular character in Tony Scott's French-American action film \"Domino\", based on the life of Domino Harvey. The film's release was delayed on multiple occasions, and upon its eventual release in November, it garnered negative reviews and performed poorly at the box-office.\n\nKnightley's most successful release of the year was \"Pride & Prejudice\", a period drama based on Jane Austen's novel of the same name. Knightley, who admired the book from a young age, said of her character, \"The beauty of Elizabeth is that every woman who ever reads the book seems to recognise herself, with all her faults and imperfections.\" Upon release, the film became a huge commercial success with total collections of around US$120 million worldwide, and garnered positive reviews from critics. Derek Elley of \"Variety\" wrote highly of her performance and screen presence: \"Looking every bit a star, Knightley, who's shown more spirit than acting smarts so far in her career really steps up to the plate here\". He regarded her \"luminous strength\" to be reminiscent of a young Audrey Hepburn. Knightley earned Best Actress nominations at the Golden Globes and the Academy Awards for her performance, becoming the third-youngest nominee for the latter. BAFTA's failure to provide her with a nomination drew criticism from the film's producer Tim Bevan.\n\nKnightley was invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, among other artists in 2006. Later that year, she reprised her role as Elizabeth Swann in the second and third productions of the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" series. The two sequels were conceived in 2004, with the writers Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio developing a story arc that would span both films. Filming for the projects took place in 2005; the \"\" released in July 2006. With the worldwide collections of $1.066 billion, it became the biggest financial hit in Knightley's career. The third installment in the series, \"\", was released in May, the following year.\n\nKnightley's continued association with period dramas yielded varying results, as seen with two of her 2007 releases, François Girard's \"Silk\", and Joe Wright's \"Atonement\", the feature film adaptations of the novels by Alessandro Baricco and Ian McEwan respectively. While the former project failed at the box office, the latter became a critical and commercial success. Knightley garnered widespread acclaim and such accolades as the BAFTA and a nomination for the Golden Globes for her portrayal of Cecilia Tallis, the elder of the two Tallis sisters. In preparing for the film, where she was seen opposite James McAvoy, she studied the \"naturalism\" of the performance as seen in the films from 1930s and 1940s, such as \"In Which We Serve\" (1942) and \"Brief Encounter\" (1945). Critic Richard Roeper, who thought that the lead duo was \"superb\" in their respective roles, was puzzled by their failure to garner Academy Award nominations.\n\nKnightley appeared alongside Sienna Miller, Cillian Murphy and Matthew Rhys in John Maybury's 2008 wartime drama \"The Edge of Love\". The film had her play the role of Vera Williams, a childhood friend of Welsh poet Dylan Thomas and his wife Caitlin Macnamara. Sharman Macdonald, wrote the screenplay with Knightley (her daughter) as Macnamara in her mind. After Knightley was signed to portray Williams, the character's role was increased with the film focusing on her romance and marriage with a British soldier. She based her performance on Marlene Dietrich, and was to mime to her prerecorded voice, prior to being told by Maybury to sing live. Knightley initially felt embarrassed while singing live: \"I was shaking like a leaf\", but eventually went through with the plan. Upon release, the film became a moderate critical and commercial success. Knightley's performance and singing abilities were praised by such film citics as Ray Bennett who wrote; \"the film belongs to the women, with Knightley going from strength to strength (and showing she can sing!)\".\n\nKnightley then starred as the 18th-century English aristocrat Georgiana Cavendish, Duchess of Devonshire in Saul Dibb's widely praised period drama \"The Duchess\" (2008), based on the best-selling biographical novel, \"Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire\" by Amanda Foreman. Although multiple media reports suggested that the use of parallels between the central character's life to that of Diana, Princess\nof Wales was being used as a marketing strategy for the project, Knightley denied any such connection. Gabrielle Tana, the film's producer said that the film was repeatedly dealyed as they could not find the right actor for the role; she added that with Knightley \"it all happened very, very quickly\". Tana also said that Knightley added a \"brought an instinctive understanding\" of such aspects of Georgiana's life as the celebrity issue and being thrust into the spotlight as she had herself experienced the same. Response to her performance was positive; Lidia Look of \"The Epoch Times\" praised her range in the film, writing, \"She not only perfectly portrays a witty and feminine Georgiana [...], but also a caring mother, and an abandoned woman.\" The following year, she was nominated for a British Independent Film Award for Best Actress. A film adaptation of William Shakespeare's tragedy \"King Lear\" set to star Knightley and Anthony Hopkins was cancelled due to recession.\n\nKnightley made her West End debut with Martin Crimp's version of Molière's comedy \"The Misanthrope\". Starring Knightley, Damian Lewis, Tara Fitzgerald and Dominic Rowan, the play was staged at London's Comedy Theatre in December 2009. Knightley decided to act in a theatre production as she felt that \"if I don't do theatre right now, I think I'm going to start being too terrified to do it\". While she described it as an \"extraordinary and incredibly fulfilling\" experience, she was sceptic of her performance. Charles Spencer of \"The Daily Telegraph\" described her performance as revealing \"both power and poignancy\" and Paul Taylor of \"The Independent\" called it \"not only strikingly convincing, but, at times, rather thrilling in its satiric aplomb\". However, \"The Guardian\"s Michael Billington noted that due to the nature of the role, \"one could say that she is not unduly stretched\". In recognition of her theatre debut, Knightley was nominated for the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role and an \"Evening Standard\" Award.\n\nKnightley appeared in three films in 2010; she said that her work during the period helped her \"empathise with people or with situations that I don't necessarily find it easy to empathise with\". Two of the productions, Massy Tadjedin's romantic drama \"Last Night\" and William Monahan's crime noir film \"London Boulevard\" opened to mixed response from critics and rank among the lowest-grossing films in Knightley's career. Knightley's other release, \"Never Let Me Go\", an adaptation of Kazuo Ishiguro's novel of the same name fared better at the box office and received positive reviews. Knightley described the script as unique, one that made the reader think. Co-starring Andrew Garfield and Carey Mulligan, the film was shot in Norfolk and Clevedon in Somerset. She appeared in a video installation by artist Stuart Pearson Wright titled \"Maze\".\n\nKnightley starred in a 2011 revival of \"The Children's Hour\" by Lillian Hellman at the Comedy Theatre in London. Knightley's only film of 2011 was David Cronenberg's historical drama \"A Dangerous Method\", co-starring Viggo Mortensen, Michael Fassbender and Vincent Cassel. Based on writer Christopher Hampton's 2002 stage play \"The Talking Cure\" and set on the eve of World War I, the film depicts the turbulent relationships between fledgling psychiatrist Carl Jung, his mentor Sigmund Freud and Sabina Spielrein. Knightley portrayed Spielrein, the troubled but beautiful young psychoanalyst who comes between Jung and Freud. The costume film premiered at the 68th Venice International Film Festival to a positive reception, while Knightley earned generally favourable reviews by critics, with Andrew O'Hehir of Salon.com noting her \"the real star of this film\".\n\nKnightley co-starred with Steve Carell in the 2012 comedy drama \"Seeking a Friend for the End of the World\". Later that year, she reunited with director Joe Wright to film their third production together, \"Anna Karenina\", in which she starred as the title character. She deemed her collaboration with Wright as the most important of her career. Knightley garnered positive reviews for her performance, prompting early Oscar buzz. The 2013 Toronto Film Festival saw the release of Knightley's first musical film \"Begin Again\" with Mark Ruffalo. The film, which was directed by John Carney, had its theatrical release in 2014. Carney later repeatedly criticised Knightley's performance in the film; stating that she was not convincing enough in portraying a singer-songwriter and continuously describing her as a \"model\" rather than an actor. He later apologised to her on Twitter for his comments. Knightley revealed in July that music doesn't \"sink in\" for her, and she is more interested in books and drama. Later that year, she appeared in Karl Lagerfeld's short period film \"Once Upon a Time...\".\n\n2014, for Knightley, began with the spy thriller \"\" alongside Chris Pine. It was based on novelist Tom Clancy's fictional character Jack Ryan and was the fifth film in the Jack Ryan film series. The film received mixed critical reviews nonetheless strong box-office response. Knightley's next film \"Laggies\" (2014), premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival prior to its US general-release on 24 October. A romantic comedy also starring Chloë Grace Moretz and Sam Rockwell, the film follows the life of Megan (played by Knightley), a 28 year old underachiever going through a quarter-life crisis. \"Laggies\" opened to mostly positive reviews from critics, with Knightley's performance being chiefly praised by critics. Inkoo Kaang of TheWrap wrote of her \"delightfully uncouth\" performance: \"She's a loose-limbed revelation as a pretty-but-normal-looking woman who just can't take things seriously enough to pull her life together.\"\n\nIt was followed by her appearance in Morten Tyldum's historical drama \"The Imitation Game\", a film based on the British mathematician Alan Turing (played by Benedict Cumberbatch). Knightley portrayed cryptanalyst and numismatist Joan Clarke, who decrypted German intelligence codes for the British government during World War II with Turing. \"The Imitation Game\" became a critical and commercial success grossing over $233.6 million. For her performance, Knightley received her second Academy Award nomination, for Best Supporting Actress. Though Lady Jean Forde, who worked with Clarke and Turing at that time felt Knightley was \"too beautiful\" to play Clarke and said: \"She [Clarke] was nothing like Keira\".\n\nKnightley's sole release of 2015 was as part of the ensemble cast in the biographical disaster film \"Everest\". The film was based on the 1996 Mount Everest disaster with Knightley portraying mountaineer Rob Hall's wife. \"Everest\" opened to mixed review from critics. In October 2015, Knightley made her Broadway debut playing the title role in Helen Edmundson's adaptation of Émile Zola's \"Thérèse Raquin\" at Studio 54. Her performance received positive reviews. Alexandra Villarreal of \"The Huffington Post\" wrote: \"She fumes, and rages, and withdraws, and you can watch her psychological evolution from stifled wife to impassioned mistress to haunted murderer\". Knightley then starred in the ensemble drama \"Collateral Beauty\" (2016), alongside Will Smith, Edward Norton, Helen Mirren, and Kate Winslet. The film received overwhelmingly negative reviews, and earned the cast a Razzie nomination. Despite previously stating on a number of occasions that she would never return to the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" film series, Knightley reprised her role of Elizabeth Swann with a cameo appearance in 2017's \"\".\n\nOn 20 January 2018, \"Colette\" premiered at the Sundance film festival. In an interview with \"Variety\" to promote the film, Knightley criticized the way female characters are portrayed in films set in the modern day stating: \"I don't really do films set in the modern day because the female characters nearly always get raped. I always find something distasteful in the way women are portrayed, whereas I've always found very inspiring characters offered to me in historical pieces\". Knightley was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for services to drama and charity.\n\nIn 2016, it was announced that Knightley will play the Sugar Plum Fairy in an adaptation of \"The Nutcracker\" titled \"The Nutcracker and the Four Realms\", directed by Lasse Hallström. Knightley is set to star alongside Alexander Skarsgård in \"The Aftermath\", a film adaption of the novel by Rhidian Brook. She is also set to play Katharine Gun in \"Official Secrets\".\n\nKnightley took a break from working in 2006, suggesting that she wanted to take some time off acting to travel and focus on her personal life. Speaking to the press in July 2014, she explained that it felt like she had reached the end of the first stage of her career, and the 2014 film \"Begin Again\" was like \"it's beginning again\". Knightley identifies as an atheist.\n\nIn 2007, Knightley sued the \"Daily Mail\" for publishing an article about whether she has anorexia or other eating disorder. Knightley won the lawsuit, and was awarded £3,000 ($6,000) in damages. She added to this amount and donated a total of £6,000 ($12,000) to Beat, a charity for those who suffer mental illness and eating disorders.\n\nA 41-year-old man was charged with harassment in February 2010 after trying to contact Knightley on several occasions outside the Comedy Theatre in London, where she appeared in the play \"The Misanthrope\". The subsequent trial folded after she was unavailable to testify in court. Another man was sentenced to eight weeks in prison after harassing Knightley outside her home and stalking her in December 2016.\n\nKnightley began dating actor Del Synnott in 2001, having met him during the filming of \"Princess of Thieves\"; they split up in 2003. Knightley then dated model and actor Jamie Dornan from 2003 to 2005. She was in a relationship with her \"Pride & Prejudice\" co-star Rupert Friend from 2005 until December 2010.\n\nKnightley has been in a relationship with musician James Righton, of Klaxons, since February 2011. They were married on 4 May 2013, in Mazan, Vaucluse. The couple have a daughter born in 2015. Knightley advocates equal paternity leave and has spoken about the expense of childcare in England. She said in an interview for the December 2016 issue of \"Harper's Bazaar\" that she had been \"lucky to be able to afford really good childcare, because otherwise it would be at least four years out of my career\".\n\nIn October 2018, Keira Knightley revealed, while speaking to the Hollywood Reporter Awards Chatter, she had a mental breakdown at 22 and was diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder as she struggled to adjust to her sudden rise to fame. Knightley described how at one point she did not leave the house for three months. In 2008 Knightley had to have hypnotherapy to prevent panic attacks in order to be able to attend that year's BAFTAS.\n\nKnightley was the celebrity face for the luxury goods brand Asprey, Shiatzy Chen as well as Lux haircare products in Japanese television commercials. In April 2006, she was confirmed as the new celebrity face of Chanel's perfume Coco Mademoiselle, though the first photo from the campaign was not released until May 2007. She appeared nude, along with Scarlett Johansson, on the cover of \"Vanity Fair\" in March 2006. Knightley has appeared in television commercials for Chanel directed by Joe Wright since 2007, and has endorsed Chanel Fine Jewelry's collection Coco Crush.\n\nKnightley is the face of an Amnesty International campaign to support human rights, marking the 60th anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2004, she travelled to Ethiopia alongside Richard Curtis, Sanjeev Bhaskar and Julian Metcalfe on behalf of the Comic Relief charity. She posed for photos for WaterAid in 2005 and also for the American Library Association's \"Read\" campaign (a promotional poster of \"Pride & Prejudice\"). The dress she wore to the 2006 Academy Awards was donated to the charity Oxfam, where it raised £4,300.\n\nIn April 2009, Knightley appeared in a video to raise awareness of domestic abuse entitled \"Cut\" shot for Women's Aid. The video created controversy, with some sources calling it too graphic, while other groups support the video for showing a realistic depiction of domestic violence. In November 2010, Knightley became patron of the SMA Trust, a British charity that funds medical research into the disease spinal muscular atrophy.\n\nFor International Women's Day 2014, Knightley was one of the artist signatories of Amnesty International's letter to British Prime Minister David Cameron, in which the organisation campaigned for women's rights in Afghanistan. In July 2014 Knightley travelled to South Sudan on behalf of Oxfam to meet refugees of the South Sudanese Civil War and raise awareness of the conflict.\n\nIn May 2016, Knightley signed a letter imploring Britain to vote \"remain\" in the forthcoming UK EU Referendum. The letter was also signed by John le Carré, Benedict Cumberbatch and Danny Boyle among others. Later, she appeared in a video aimed at encouraging younger people to vote in the Referendum.\n\nOn 12 September 2016, Knightley, as well as Cate Blanchett, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Peter Capaldi, Douglas Booth, Neil Gaiman, Jesse Eisenberg, Juliet Stevenson, Kit Harington, and Stanley Tucci, featured in a video from the United Nations' refugee agency UNHCR to help raise awareness to the global refugee crisis. The video, titled \"What They Took With Them\", has the actors reading a poem, written by Jenifer Toksvig and inspired by primary accounts of refugees, and is part of UNHCR's #WithRefugees campaign, of which also includes a petition to governments to expand asylum to provide further shelter, integrating job opportunities, and education.\n\nIn September 2016, Knightley co-hosted A Night to Remember, part of the Green Carpet Challenge, a charity event highlighting sustainability within the fashion industry. In September 2017, Knightley traded stocks on behalf of the spinal muscular atrophy charity SMA Trust as part of the BGC Charity Day which was set up to commemorate the stockbrokers who were killed during the 9/11 terror attacks.\n\nKnightley has been described by media outlets as \"famously open with media\", although she herself has stated the contrary: \"I don't talk about my private life.\" In a 2004 BBC poll, Knightley was named among the most influential people in British culture. Knightley has been listed as one of the \"100 Sexiest Women in the World\" by FHM on multiple occasions. She made her first appearance on the list in 2004, and was named \"the sexiest woman in the world\" in 2006. She was included in every subsequent issue up until 2009. She was a part of the American editions of the list from 2004 to 2006, and was also placed ninth on \"Maxim\"s Hot 100 list in 2006.\n\nKnightley received media attention for her perspectives on feminism, voiced in an interview for \"Harper's Bazaar UK\" published in the \nFebruary 2014 edition. Knightley explained that female artists face greater hurdles in the film industry compared to their male counterparts, and also revealed that she was perplexed by the use of \"feminist\" in a derogatory sense: \"Somehow, it [feminism] became a dirty word. I thought it was really weird for a long time, and I think it's great that we're coming out of that.\" Knightley posed topless for the September 2014 issue of \"Interview\", on the condition that she not be photoshopped, to draw attention to how \"women's bodies are a battleground, and photography is partly to blame\".\n\nKnightley has been nominated twice for an Academy Award: in 2005 for Best Actress for \"Pride & Prejudice\"; and in 2015 for Best Supporting Actress for \"The Imitation Game\".\n"}
{"id": "2125745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125745", "title": "List of Burkinabés", "text": "List of Burkinabés\n\nThis is a list of notable people from Burkina Faso, formerly French Upper Volta.\n\n\n\n\n\"See: List of Burkinabé writers\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36521480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36521480", "title": "List of Jewish Kabbalists", "text": "List of Jewish Kabbalists\n\nThis page lists figures in Kabbalah according to historical chronology and schools of thought. In popular reference, Kabbalah has been used to refer to the whole history of Jewish mysticism, but more accurately, and as used in academic Jewish studies, Kabbalah refers to the doctrines, practices and esoteric exegetical method in Torah, that emerged in 12th-13th century Southern France and Spain, and was developed further in 16th century Ottoman Palestine. These formed the basis of subsequent Jewish mystical development.\n\nThis is a partial list of Jewish Kabbalists; secondary literature incorporating Kabbalah is enormous, particularly in the voluminous library of Hasidic Judaism that turned esoteric Kabbalah into a popular revivalist movement. Hasidism both adapted Kabbalah to its own internalised psychological concern, and also continued the development of the Jewish mystical tradition. Therefore, only formative articulators of Hasidic thought, or particularly Kabbalistic schools/authors in Hasidism are included here. In the Sabbatean mystical heresy that broke away from Judaism, only the founders are listed. Solely academic-university Jewish studies researchers of Jewish mysticism, not being \"Kabbalists\", nor necessarily Jewish, are not listed here; nor are separate non-Jewish derivative/syncretic traditions of Kabbalah.\n\nRabbinic figures in Judaism are often known after the name of their magnum opus, or as Hebrew acronyms based on their name, preceded by R for Rabbi/Rav.\n\nTalmudic tannaic sages: \"Maaseh Merkabah\" (mystical Chariot)-\"Maaseh Bereishit\" (mystical Creation) (1st-2nd centuries). \"Yordei Merkabah\" (Chariot Riders)-\"Heikhalot\" (Palaces) mysticism (1st-11th centuries). are variously Traditional/Attributed/Anonymous/Pseudepigraphical:\n\nHasidei Ashkenaz (1150-1250 German Pietists). Mystical conceptions influenced Medieval Kabbalah:\n\nProvence circle (Southern France - Provence and Languedoc 12th-13th centuries):\n\nCatalonia/Girona circle (North-East Spain 13th century):\n\nCastile circle (Northern Spain 13th century). Developed Demonic/Gnostic theory:\n\nEcstatic/Prophetic-Meditative Kabbalah (13th century):\n\nPublication of the Zohar (1280s–90s Northern Spain):\n\n13th century Kabbalistic commentary:\n\n14th-15th centuries saw a slowing continuation in Kabbalistic commentary:\n\nInfluence of Medieval Jewish rationalism in Spain declined, culminating with the expulsion. Jewish fusions of Philosophy and Kabbalah were shared by wider non-Jewish Renaissance trends (not listed here):\n\nEmigrees, some from Spain, some founding new centre of Safed in Ottoman Palestine:\n\nCordoverian school. Rationally-influenced systemisation of preceding Kabbalah:\n\nLurianic school. New mythological systemisation of Kabbalah. Basis of modern Kabbalah. \"Kitvei HaAri-Writings of the Ari\" written by disciples:\n\nSafed dissemination:\n\nCentral European Kabbalist Rabbis:\n\nItalian Kabbalists:\n\nSephardi-Mizrachi (Oriental) Kabbalah:\n\nSabbatean mystical heresy (founders only):\n\nEastern European Baal Shem/Nistarim and other mystical circles:\n\nMitnagdic/Lithuanian Kabbalah:\n\nKabbalistic notions pervade Hasidic thought, but it developed a new approach to Kabbalah, replacing esoteric theosophical focus with successive psychological internalisation. Therefore, only a minimal listing of Hasidic figures is given here; founding formative figures or commentators on esoteric Kabbalah texts/tradition.\nFounding East-European Hasidic Masters:\n\nOther Hasidic commentators on Kabbalah:\n\nFrom diverse traditions in Kabbalah (excluding Hasidic thought's internalisation approach):\n\nIndividual teachers of Jewish mysticism spirituality in modern-style articulations. Solely academic teachers in Jewish studies research are not listed here.\nOrthodox Kabbalistic/Hasidic:\nNon-Orthodox/Neo-Hasidic/Jewish Renewal:\nUniversalist-style Jewish teachers:\n"}
{"id": "9915132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9915132", "title": "List of people born at sea", "text": "List of people born at sea\n\nThis is a list of notable people born at sea.\n"}
{"id": "13305741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305741", "title": "List of translators into English", "text": "List of translators into English\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNB: His only work was \"De rerum natura\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8983530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8983530", "title": "Luis Aranberri", "text": "Luis Aranberri\n\nLuis Aranberri (Eibar, 1945), better known as “Amatiño”, is one of the media professionals that best represents the new school of journalism in the Basque language, or Euskara, which emerged around 1970 and which, in step with the creation of the Basque Country’s own institutions, was accompanied by the development and consolidation of a Basque news arena that was practically non-existent up to barely one generation ago.\n\nThe opposition to any expression in a language other than Spanish, political censorship and the pro-government bias of the media during Franco’s dictatorship had hindered the normal development of the press in Basque. \nAt the same time, the absence of qualified Basque-speaking media professionals, together with the pronounced social and political commitment – almost akin to working underground – of the writers who cooperated with their opinion columns, meant that Basque language magazines tended more to reflection than general news. This was the setting for such pioneers as Javier de Aranburu, Miren Jone Azurza, Mikel Atxaga and the youngest of them all, Luis Aranberri.\nConcealed behind the pen name “Amatiño”, Luis Aranberri started off as the local correspondent for the weekly \"Zeruko Argia\" in 1964, and in 1972 he created the general news section ZENBAT GARA, which immediately became the main source of news for the then incipient Basque cultural renaissance. Barely five years later, the historian and essayist Joseba Intxausti wrote:\n\nAmatiño’s popularity spilled over into the world of Spanish when in 1976 he joined the editorial board for the Culture section in the newly founded newspaper \"Deia\" and, yet more so, when he was put in charge of the News Services of ETB, Basque public television, which began broadcasting for the first time on January 1, 1983.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11898862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11898862", "title": "Mammootty filmography", "text": "Mammootty filmography\n\nMammootty is an Indian film actor \nand producer who works primarily in Malayalam cinema. He has also starred in Tamil, Hindi, Telugu, Kannada, and English language films in lead role.\n\n"}
{"id": "44449712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44449712", "title": "Marta Ruedas", "text": "Marta Ruedas\n\nMarta Ruedas is a United Nations bureaucrat who has worked in many countries around the world as a representative of the United Nations Development Programme, including Bolivia, Kyrgyzstan, the Republic of Georgia, Nepal, Mongolia and Mexico, as well as at its headquarters in New York. The organization assists countries in reaching their targets in economic and social development. In 2015 she was the Country Director of the UNDP in Kabul, Afghanistan. In 2016 she was the representative for Sudan, and in 2018 she became the United Nations resident co-ordinator in Iraq.\n\nRuedas has a Bachelor of Arts from Cornell University, a Master of International Affairs degree from Columbia University, and a diploma in Russian studies from the Pushkin Institute in Moscow.\n\nRuedas served as UNDP Resident Coordinator/Resident Representative in Sao Tomé and Príncipe, beginning in 1991. She was then assigned to the same post in Bulgaria in 2001, during which she was awarded the country's state medal, the Stara Planina Order, by former Bulgarian President Georgi Parvanov. While in Bulgaria she helped to organize a UN project which provided assistance to the Government of Bulgaria in identifying and destroying surpluses of weapons and ammunition.\n\nIn 2003, Ruendas became the Deputy Regional Director of the UN's Regional Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States in New York. She left this post in 2007 when she was assigned as the UNDP's Deputy Special Coordinator/ Resident Coordinator and Resident Representative in Lebanon, where she was once again in charge of promoting economic and social development projects.\n\nOn 31 August 2014 Ruedas was appointed Country Director of the United Nations Development Programme in Kabul, Afghanistan. Since then she has coordinated UNDP projects there, including the construction of bridges, provision of water access to communities in remote areas of Afghanistan, and participation in the Afghanistan Peace and Reintegration Programme. \n\nRuendas also worked for the recovery of affected communities around the world during her post as the Deputy Assistant Administrator and Deputy Director for UNDP Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery, arranging public-private partnerships to accelerate recovery.\n\nIn 2016 she was the UN Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Sudan. In February that year she traveled to a refugee camp at Tawilla, where 86,000 refugees had gathered, and in 2017 she met with Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir and visited a camp in Darfur. In 2018 Ruedas was presented with Sudan's First-Class Order of the Two Niles by the country's President Omar al-Bashir.\n\nIn 2018 Ruedas was assigned as the UN's special representative in Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "51485138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51485138", "title": "May Xue", "text": "May Xue\n\nMay Xue (born July 5, 1973) was the CEO of the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in Beijing, China from 2011 to 2017. Prior to becoming CEO, Xue was the UCCA Store retail director. In 2015, Xue was named one of the \"7\" \"Women in Contemporary Chinese Art You Need to Know\" by ArtNet News.\n\nXue was born in Xian, China. In 1985, at the age of 15, Xue moved to Shangdong where she would finish her schooling all the way through university where she would earn a bachelor's degree in Hotel Management at Shangdong University.\n\nIn 1994, Xue was introduced to an opportunity in Beijing, China, to work as an assistant for Pittler Group China's chief representative. Xue quickly built a good reputation within the company and was sent to the Goethe Institut in Beijing to study German. After completing two semesters at the Goethe Institut, she continued to work for Pittler Group China.\n\nIn 1998, Xue joined CapitalClub China where she was hired as a membership officer. It only took Xue six months to be promoted to membership manager for China. Two years after her first promotion, Xue was once again promoted; this time to Capital Club's director of China. In 2002, Xue was awarded a chance to travel to any city in the world through Capital Club and chose Los Angeles, California. The director of ClubCorp (Capital Club's parent company) in Los Angeles immediately offered Xue a position. Xue spent three years working as a private events manager for City Club on Bunker Hill in Los Angeles before moving back to China in 2005.\n\nXue continued to work at Capital Club in Beijing, this time as a marketing director, until late 2005 where she took on a position in Chengdu, China, at the China Club (private business club) as a general manager.\n\nIn 2006, Xue was hired by Cartier to become the area retail manager of North China. Xue spent one-year at Cartier before starting her own public relations company called Imperial Connect. The company last just under two years (2007-2009). During those two years, Imperial Connect partnered with Jet Set Sports to become a VIP host for the 2008 Beijing Olympics where Xue held the role of event manager. Imperial Connect also worked with Hainan Airlines to host the inaugural China to Seattle flight event. Most of Imperial Connect's clients were in the art industry. The Bruce Lee Gallery was one of Imperial Connect's clients. Xue, still running Imperial Connect, also worked with the Kent Logan Foundation, Lawrence Schiller, Chinese Contemporary Art Awards (CCAA) and Uli Sigg.\n\nThis prompted Xue's entry into the art industry. In November 2008, shortly after Xue finished the CCAAs at UCCA, she was offered job by founder Guy Ullens who brought her on as UCCA Store retail director. In 2011, Xue was promoted to CEO of UCCA. In 2017, Xue announced her resignation. \n"}
{"id": "567012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567012", "title": "Mongolian death worm", "text": "Mongolian death worm\n\nThe Mongolian death worm (, olgoi-khorkhoi, \"large intestine worm\") is a creature\nalleged to exist in the Gobi Desert.\n\nThe creature first came to Western attention as a result of Roy Chapman Andrews's 1926 book \"On the Trail of Ancient Man\". The American paleontologist was not convinced by the tales of the monster that he heard at a gathering of Mongolian officials: \"None of those present ever had seen the creature, but they all firmly believed in its existence and described it minutely.\"\n\nIn 1983 a specimen of Tartar sand boa (\"Eryx tataricus\") was shown to locals who claimed to have seen \"olgoi-khorkhoi\" and they confirmed that this was the animal they called \"olgoi-khorkhoi\".\n\nThe worms are purportedly between two and five feet long (60 cm to 1.5 meters) and are thick-bodied.\n\nIn \"On the Trail of Ancient Man\", Andrews cites Mongolian Prime Minister Damdinbazar who in 1922 described the worm: \nIt is shaped like a sausage about two feet long, has no head nor leg and it is so poisonous that merely to touch it means instant death. It lives in the most desolate parts of the Gobi Desert.\n\nIn 1932, Andrews published this information again in the book \"The New Conquest of Central Asia\", adding: \"It is reported to live in the most arid, sandy regions of the western Gobi.\" Andrews, however, did not believe in the creature's existence.\n\nThe worm is said to inhabit the western or southern Gobi. In the 1987 book \"Altajn Tsaadakh Govd\", Ivan Mackerle described it as travelling underground, creating waves of sand on the surface which allow it to be detected. The Mongolians say it can kill at a distance, either by spraying a venom at its prey or by means of electric discharge. They say that the worm lives underground, hibernating most of the year except for June and July, when it becomes active. It is also reported that it most often comes to the surface when it rains and the ground is wet.\n\nThe Mongolians believe that touching any part of the worm will cause almost instant death and tremendous pain. It has been told that the worm frequently preyed on camels and laid eggs in its intestines, and eventually acquired the trait of its red-like skin. Its venom supposedly corrodes metal and local folklore tells of a predilection for the color yellow. The worm is also said to have a preference for local parasitic plants such as the \"goyo\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13165650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13165650", "title": "Norman Yakeleya", "text": "Norman Yakeleya\n\nNorman Yakeleya (born March 13, 1959) is a territorial level politician from Northwest Territories, Canada.\n\nYakeleya first began his political career on the municipal level as a Councillor from 1987 until 1990. He then served as Chief of the Tulita Dene Band and Chairman of the Sahtu tribal Council.\n\nYakeleya was first elected to the Northwest Territories Legislature in the 2003 Northwest Territories general election defeating four other candidates to win his first term in office. He was re-elected to his second term in office in the 2007 Northwest Territories general election by acclamation.\n\n"}
{"id": "59068437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59068437", "title": "Pamela Schwerdt", "text": "Pamela Schwerdt\n\nPamela Schwerdt was the joint head gardener at Sissinghurst Castle Garden from 1959 to 1990, and a pioneering horticulturalist.\n\nPamela Schwerdt was born on 5th April 1931 in Surrey, the granddaughter of Edith Vere Dent, who founded the Wild Flower Society in 1886, and the daughter of Violet Schwerdt MBE, who was subsequently editor of the society newsletter following on from her mother and sister. From 1936 the family lived in Newfoundland then Nova Scotia, returning to England in 1945, where Pam attended Lady Eleanor Holles School in Hampton, Middlesex.\n\nIn 1951, aged 18, she joined Waterperry School of Horticulture for Ladies, at Waterperry Gardens in Oxfordshire. She was attracted by the fact that the clothes list included \"two pairs of gumboots and a mackintosh\" rather than the \"cap and gown\" required at Wye College, and this reflected the practical nature of the training offered by the school's founder, Beatrix Havergal. Whilst there she formed a close friendship with Sibylle Kreutzberger, a fellow student, with whom she was to work for the rest of her life. She passed the Waterperry diploma and was also awarded the Chittenden Prize for achieving the highest marks in the Royal Horticultural Society's National Diploma of Horticulture. She stayed on the teaching staff after the course, remaining for eight years in total.\n\nBy 1959 both Schwerdt and Kreutzberger felt Waterperry was \"like being at school forever\". Schwerdt contacted various gardening correspondents, including Vita Sackville-West, in search of a walled garden to start a nursery. Sackville-West said she did not know of a site but subsequently wrote to say she needed a head gardener for the garden she had created at Sissinghurst Castle: would Pam be interested? Schwerdt replied \"yes, but we are two\".\n\nFrom 1959 until retirement in 1990 she was the joint head gardener, with Kreutzberger, at the garden at Sissinghurst Castle in Kent. Kreutzberger focused on propagation, and Schwerdt had a higher public profile, although they were often seen and addressed as a pair. \"Women were rare in horticulture in those days\", recalled Kreutzberger in 2006. \"When we first went to Sissinghurst, people used to point at us as though we were baboons at the zoo.\"\n\nShe served on several RHS committees, including the Floral A Committee (now Herbaceous Committee) for 32 years 1977–2008 and the Floral Trials Subcommittee (now Floral Trials Assessment Panel) for 30 years 1979–2009, both latterly as vice chair, and she was often a judge at RHS shows. She was made an associate of honour of the Royal Horticultural Society in 1980 and received the Victoria Medal of Honour in 2006, at the same time as Kreutzberger. She was appointed MBE in 1990. In 1992 she received, with Kreutzberger, the third International Carlo Scarpa Prize for Gardens awarded by the Fondazione Benetton.\n\nIn 1991 the two women bought a house together at at Manor Farm, Condicote, near Stow-on-the-Wold in Gloucestershire, where they made a garden that was much admired.\n\nSchwerdt died on September 11, 2009 at the age of 78, from a lung cancer caused by asbestos exposure, although the coroner could not determine where this came from. She never married.\n\nThe widely copied \"Sissinghurst look\", owed as much, if not more, to Schwerdt and Kreuzberger as to Sackville-West (who died in 1962, only 3 years after the new head gardeners joined). \"It's as much their garden as Vita's,\" said Alexis Datta, head gardener in 2010.\n\nSignature characteristics were planting a profusion of flowers in colourful tonal displays, dense rose beds, the use of topiary and trellises to give sculptural shapes, and selective wildness. Partly by using annuals and tender perennials, they were able to make planting that Sackville-West considered to be over by mid July, last into autumn. This way of extending the season was copied in other gardens owned by the National Trust, and by home gardeners. During her tenure, visiting figures rose from about 6,000 a year in 1959 to 197,000 in 1991 (the year after she retired).\n\nShe was passionate about the need for close observance of plants, which she described as \"living with plants\". She gave lectures, in the UK (including on the English\nGarden School's Plant and Plantsmanship course for eight years) and USA, although in general shunned publicity, saying \"Gardening doesn't need celebrities, it's a celebrity in itself\".\n\nTheir work was documented in various books, including \"Gardening at Sissinghurst\" by Tony Lord () and \"Sissinghurst: Portrait of a Garden\" by Jane Brown ().\n"}
{"id": "43712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43712", "title": "Parsi", "text": "Parsi\n\nA Parsi () or Parsee (\"Persian\" in the Persian language) refers to a member of the Zoroastrian community who migrated to India (mainly; including present day Pakistan) from Persia during the Arab invasion of 636–651 AD; one of two (the other being Iranis) mainly located in India, with a few in Pakistan. According to the \"Qissa-i Sanjan\", Parsis migrated from Greater Iran to Gujarat, where they were given refuge, between the 8th and 10th century AD to avoid persecution following the Muslim conquest of Persia.\n\nAt the time of the Muslim conquest of Persia, the dominant religion of the region (which was ruled by the Sasanian Empire) was Zoroastrianism. Iranians rebelled against Muslim conquerors for almost 200 years. During this time many Iranians (who are now called Parsis) chose to preserve their religious identity by fleeing from Persia to India.\n\nThe word , pronounced \"Parsian\", i.e., \"Parsi\" in the Persian language, literally means \"Persian\". Farsi is the official language of modern Iran, which was formerly known as Persia, and the Persian language's endonym is \"Farsi\", an arabization of the word \"Parsi\".\n\nThe long presence of the Parsis in the Indian subcontinent distinguishes them from the smaller Zoroastrian Indian community of Iranis, who are much more recent arrivals, mostly descended from Zoroastrians fleeing the repression of the Qajar dynasty and the general social and political tumult of late 19th- and early 20th-century Iran.\n\nAccording to the Encyclopædia Britannica,Parsi, also spelled Parsee, member of a group of followers in India of the Persian prophet Zoroaster. The Parsis, whose name means \"Persians\", are descended from Persian Zoroastrians who emigrated to India to avoid religious persecution by the Muslims. They live chiefly in Mumbai and in a few towns and villages mostly to the south of Mumbai, but also a few minorities near by in Karachi (Pakistan) and Bangalore (Karnataka, India). There is a sizeable Parsee population in Pune as well in Hyderabad. A few Parsee families also reside in Kolkata and Chennai. Although they are not, strictly speaking, a caste, since they are not Hindus, they form a well-defined community. The exact date of the Parsi migration is unknown. According to tradition, the Parsis initially settled at Hormuz on the Persian Gulf, but finding themselves still persecuted they set sail for India, arriving in the 8th century. The migration may in fact have taken place as late as the 10th century, or in both. They settled first at Diu in Kathiawar but soon moved to south Gujarāt, where they remained for about 800 years as a small agricultural community.\n\nThe term \"Pārsi\", which in the Persian language is a demonym meaning \"inhabitant of Pārs\" and hence \"ethnic Persian\", is not attested in Indian Zoroastrian texts until the 17th century. Until that time, such texts consistently use the Persian-origin terms \"Zartoshti\" \"Zoroastrian\" or \"Vehdin\" \"[of] the good religion\". The 12th-century \"Sixteen Shlokas\", a Sanskrit text in praise of the Parsis, is the earliest attested use of the term as an identifier for Indian Zoroastrians.\nThe first reference to the Parsis in a European language is from 1322, when a French monk, Jordanus, briefly refers to their presence in Thane and Bharuch. Subsequently, the term appears in the journals of many European travelers, first French and Portuguese, later English, all of whom used a Europeanized version of an apparently local language term. For example, Portuguese physician Garcia de Orta observed in 1563 that \"there are merchants ... in the kingdom of Cambaia ... known as Esparcis. We Portuguese call them Jews, but they are not so. They are Gentios.\" In an early 20th-century legal ruling (see self-perceptions, below), Justices Davar and Beaman asserted (1909:540) that \"Parsi\" was also a term used in Iran to refer to Zoroastrians. notes that in much the same way as the word \"Hindu\" was used by Iranians to refer to anyone from the Indian subcontinent, \"Parsi\" was used by the Indians to refer to anyone from Greater Iran, irrespective of whether they were actually ethnic Persian people. In any case, the term \"Parsi\" itself is \"not necessarily an indication of their Iranian or 'Persian' origin, but rather as indicator – manifest as several properties – of ethnic identity\" . Moreover, if heredity were the only factor in a determination of ethnicity, the Parsis would count as Parthians according to the \"Qissa-i Sanjan\". \n\nThe term \"Parseeism\" or \"Parsiism\" is attributed to Abraham Hyacinthe Anquetil-Duperron, who in the 1750s, when the word \"Zoroastrianism\" had yet to be coined, made the first detailed report of the Parsis and of Zoroastrianism, therein mistakenly assuming that the Parsis were the only remaining followers of the religion.\n\nIn addition to above, the Parsi identity was well truly an identity even before they moved to India:\n\nIn ancient Persia, Zoroaster taught that good (Ohrmazd) and evil (Angra Mainyu) were opposite forces and the battle between them is more or less evenly matched. A person should always be vigilant to align with forces of light. According to the \"asha\" or the righteousness and \"druj\" or the wickedness, the person has chosen in his life they will be judged at the Chinvat bridge to grant passage to Paradise, Hammistagan (A limbo area) or Hell by a sword. A personified form of the soul that represents the person’s deeds takes the adjudged to their destination and they will abide there until the final apocalypse. After the final battle between good and evil, every soul’s walk through a river of fire ordeal for burning of their dross and together they receive a post resurrection paradise. The Zoroastrian holy book, called the \"Avesta\", was written in the Avestan language, which is closely related to Vedic Sanskrit.\n\nThe \"Qissa-i Sanjan\" is a tale of the journey of the Parsis to India from Iran. It says they fled for reasons of religious freedom and they were allowed to settle in India thanks to the goodwill of a local prince. However, the Parsi community had to abide by three rules: they had to speak the local language, follow local marriage customs, and not carry any weapons. After showing the many similarities between their faith and local beliefs, the early community was granted a plot of land on which to build a fire temple.\n\nOver the centuries since the first Zoroastrians arrived in India, the Parsis have integrated themselves into Indian society while simultaneously maintaining or developing their own distinct customs and traditions (and thus ethnic identity). This in turn has given the Parsi community a rather peculiar standing: they are Indians in terms of national affiliation, language and history, but not typically Indian in terms of consanguinity or ethnicity, cultural, behavioural and religious practices. \nGenealogical DNA tests to determine purity of lineage have brought mixed results. One study supports the Parsi contention that they have maintained their Persian roots by avoiding intermarriage with local populations. In that 2002 study of the Y-chromosome (patrilineal) DNA of the Parsis of Pakistan, it was determined that Parsis are genetically closer to Iranians than to their neighbours .\n\nA 2004 study in which Parsi mitochondrial DNA (matrilineal) was compared with that of the Iranians and Gujaratis determined that Parsis (in Gujarat, but not in other parts of India) are genetically closer to Gujaratis than to Iranians. Taking the 2002 study into account, the authors of the 2004 study suggested \"a male-mediated migration of the ancestors of the present-day Parsi population, where they admixed with local females [...] leading ultimately to the loss of mtDNA of Iranian origin\" . To put all the doubts to rest a deeper study was conducted in 2017 “Like sugar in milk”: reconstructing the genetic history of the Parsi population which confirms that Parsis are genetically closer to Neolithic Iranians than to modern Iranians, who have witnessed a more recent wave of admixture from the Near East.\n\nThe definition of who is, and is not, a Parsi is a matter of great contention within the Zoroastrian community in India. It is generally accepted that a Parsi is a person who:\n\nIn this sense, \"Parsi\" is an ethno-religious designator, whose definition is of contention among its members, similar to the contention over who is a Jew in the West.\n\nSome members of the community additionally contend that a child must have a Parsi father to be eligible for introduction into the faith, but this assertion is considered by most to be a violation of the Zoroastrian tenets of gender equality and may be a remnant of an old legal definition of the term Parsi.\n\nAn oft-quoted legal definition of Parsi is based on a 1909 ruling (since nullified) that not only stipulated that a person could not become a Parsi by converting to the Zoroastrian faith but also noted:\n\nThis definition was overturned several times. The equality principles of the Indian Constitution void the patrilineal restrictions expressed in the third clause. The second clause was contested and overturned in 1948. On appeal in 1950, the 1948 ruling was upheld and the entire 1909 definition was deemed an obiter dictum – a collateral opinion and not legally binding (re-affirmed in 1966). (; ).\n\nNonetheless, the opinion that the 1909 ruling is legally binding continues to persist, even among the better-read and moderate Parsis.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census of India, there are 57,264 Parsis in India. According to the National Commission for Minorities, there are a \"variety of causes that are responsible for this steady decline in the population of the community\", the most significant of which were childlessness and migration (). Demographic trends project that by the year 2020 the Parsis will number only 23,000. The Parsis will then cease to be called a community and will be labeled a 'tribe'. ().\n\nOne-fifth of the decrease in population is attributed to migration (). A slower birthrate than deathrate accounts for the rest: as of 2001, Parsis over the age of 60 make up for 31% of the community. Only 4.7% of the Parsi community are under 6 years of age, which translates to 7 births per year per 1000 individuals (). Concerns have been raised in recent years over the rapidly declining population of the Parsi community in India.\n\nThe gender ratio among Parsis is unusual: as of 2001, the ratio of males to females was 1000 males to 1050 females (up from 1024 in 1991), due primarily to the high median age of the population (elderly women are more common than elderly men). As of 2001 the national average in India was 1000 males to 933 females.\n\nParsis have a high literacy rate; as of 2001, the literacy rate is 97.9%, the highest of any Indian community (the national average was 64.8%). 96.1% of Parsis reside in urban areas (the national average is 27.8%).\n\nIn the Greater Mumbai area, where the density of Parsis is highest, about 10% of Parsi females and about 20% of Parsi males do not marry.()\n\nAccording to the Qissa-i Sanjan, the only existing account of the early years of Zoroastrian refugees in India composed at least six centuries after their tentative date of arrival, the first group of immigrants originated from Greater Khorasan. This historical region of Central Asia is in part in northeastern Iran, where it constitutes modern Khorasan Province, part of western/northern Afghanistan, and in part in three Central-Asian republics namely Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.\n\nAccording to the \"Qissa\", the immigrants were granted permission to stay by the local ruler, Jadi Rana, on the condition that they adopt the local language (Gujarati) and that their women adopt local dress (the \"sari\"). The refugees accepted the conditions and founded the settlement of Sanjan, which is said to have been named after the city of their origin (Sanjan, near Merv, modern Turkmenistan). This first group was followed by a second group from Greater Khorasan within five years of the first, and this time having religious implements with them (the \"alat\"). In addition to these \"Khorasani\"s or \"Kohistani\"s \"mountain folk\", as the two initial groups are said to have been initially called, at least one other group is said to have come overland from Sari, Iran.\nAlthough the Sanjan group are believed to have been the first permanent settlers, the precise date of their arrival is a matter of conjecture. All estimates are based on the \"Qissa\", which is vague or contradictory with respect to some elapsed periods. Consequently, three possible dates – 716, 765, and 936 – have been proposed as the year of landing, and the disagreement has been the cause of \"many an intense battle ... amongst Parsis\". Since dates are not specifically mentioned in Parsi texts prior to the 18th century, any date of arrival is perforce a matter of speculation. The importance of the \"Qissa\" lies in any case not so much in its reconstruction of events than in its depiction of the Parsis – in the way they have come to view themselves – and in their relationship to the dominant culture. As such, the text plays a crucial role in shaping Parsi identity. But, \"even if one comes to the conclusion that the chronicle based on verbal transmission is not more than a legend, it still remains without doubt an extremely informative document for Parsee historiography.\"\n\nThe Sanjan Zoroastrians were certainly not the first Zoroastrians on the subcontinent. Sindh touching Balochistan, the easternmost periphery of the Iranian world, too had once been under coastal administration of the Sasanian Empire (226-651), which consequently maintained outposts there. Even following the loss of Sindh, the Iranians continued to play a major role in the trade links between the east and west. The 9th-century Arab historiographer Al-Masudi briefly notes Zoroastrians with fire temples in al-Hind and in al-Sindh. There is evidence of individual Parsis residing in Sindh in the tenth and twelfth centuries, but the current modern community is thought to date from British arrival in Sindh. Moreover, for the Iranians, the harbours of Gujarat lay on the maritime routes that complemented the overland Silk Road and there were extensive trade relations between the two regions. The contact between Iranians and Indians was already well established even prior to the Common Era, and both the Puranas and the \"Mahabharata\" use the term \"Parasikas\" to refer to the peoples west of the Indus River.\n\n\"Parsi legends regarding their ancestors' migration to India depict a beleaguered band of religious refugees escaping the new rule post the Muslim conquests in order to preserve their ancient faith.\" ) However, while Parsi settlements definitely arose along the western coast of the Indian subcontinent following the Arab conquest of Iran, it is not possible to state with certainty that these migrations occurred as a result of religious persecution against Zoroastrians. If the \"traditional\" 8th century date (as deduced from the \"Qissa\") is considered valid, it must be assumed \"that the migration began while Zoroastrianism was still the predominant religion in Iran [and] economic factors predominated the initial decision to migrate.\" This would have been particularly the case if – as the \"Qissa\" suggests – the first Parsis originally came from the north-east (i.e. Central Asia) and had previously been dependent on Silk Road trade . Even so, in the 17th century, Henry Lord, a chaplain with the British East India Company, noted that the Parsis came to India seeking \"liberty of conscience\" but simultaneously arrived as \"merchantmen bound for the shores of India, in course of trade and merchandise.\" The fact that Muslims charged non-Muslims higher duties when trading from Muslim-held ports may be interpreted to be a form of religious persecution, but this being the only reason to migrate appears unlikely.\n\nThe \"Qissa\" has little to say about the events that followed the establishment of Sanjan, and restricts itself to a brief note on the establishment of the \"Fire of Victory\" (Middle Persian: \"Atash Bahram\") at Sanjan and its subsequent move to Navsari. According to Dhalla, the next several centuries were \"full of hardships\" (\"sic\") before Zoroastrianism \"gained a real foothold in India and secured for its adherents some means of livelihood in this new country of their adoption\".\n\nTwo centuries after their landing, the Parsis began to settle in other parts of Gujarat, which led to \"difficulties in defining the limits of priestly jurisdiction.\" These problems were resolved by 1290 through the division of Gujarat into five \"panthak\"s (districts), each under the jurisdiction of one priestly family and their descendants. (Continuing disputes regarding jurisdiction over the \"Atash Bahram\" led to the fire being moved to Udvada in 1742, where today jurisdiction is shared in rotation among the five \"panthak\" families.)\n\nInscriptions at the Kanheri Caves near Mumbai suggest that at least until the early 11th century, Middle Persian was still the literary language of the hereditary Zoroastrian priesthood. Nonetheless, aside from the \"Qissa\" and the Kanheri inscriptions, there is little evidence of the Parsis until the 12th and 13th century, when \"masterly\" Sanskrit translations and transcriptions of the Avesta and its commentaries began to be prepared. From these translations Dhalla infers that \"religious studies were prosecuted with great zeal at this period\" and that the command of Middle Persian and Sanskrit among the clerics \"was of a superior order\"..\n\nFrom the 13th century to the late 16th century, the Zoroastrian priests of Gujarat sent (in all) twenty-two requests for religious guidance to their co-religionists in Iran, presumably because they considered the Iranian Zoroastrians \"better informed on religious matters than themselves, and must have preserved the old-time tradition more faithfully than they themselves did\" . These transmissions and their replies – assiduously preserved by the community as the \"rivayat\"s (epistles) – span the years 1478–1766 and deal with both religious and social subjects. From a superficial 21st century point of view, some of these \"ithoter\" (\"questions\") are remarkably trivial – for instance, \"Rivayat\" 376: whether ink prepared by a non-Zoroastrian is suitable for copying Avestan language texts – but they provide a discerning insight into the fears and anxieties of the early modern Zoroastrians. Thus, the question of the ink is symptomatic of the fear of assimilation and the loss of identity, a theme that dominates the questions posed and continues to be an issue into the 21st century. So also the question of conversion of \"Juddin\"s (non-Zoroastrians) to Zoroastrianism, to which the reply (R237, R238) was: acceptable, even meritorious.\n\nNonetheless, \"the precarious condition in which they lived for a considerable period made it impracticable for them to keep up their former proselytizing zeal. The instinctive fear of disintegration and absorption in the vast multitudes among whom they lived created in them a spirit of exclusiveness and a strong desire to preserve the racial characteristics and distinctive features of their community. Living in an atmosphere surcharged with the Hindu caste system, they felt that their own safety lay in encircling their fold by rigid caste barriers\" . Even so, at some point (possibly shortly after their arrival in India), the Zoroastrians – perhaps determining that the social stratification that they had brought with them was unsustainable in the small community – did away with all but the hereditary priesthood (called the \"asronih\" in Sassanid Iran). The remaining estates – the \"(r)atheshtarih\" (nobility, soldiers, and civil servants), \"vastaryoshih\" (farmers and herdsmen), \"hutokshih\" (artisans and labourers) – were folded into an all-comprehensive class today known as the \"behdini\" (\"followers of \"daena\"\", for which \"good religion\" is one translation). This change would have far reaching consequences. For one, it opened the gene pool to some extent since until that time inter-class marriages were exceedingly rare (this would continue to be a problem for the priesthood until the 20th century). For another, it did away with the boundaries along occupational lines, a factor that would endear the Parsis to the 18th- and 19th-century British colonial authorities who had little patience for the unpredictable complications of the Hindu caste system (such as when a clerk from one caste would not deal with a clerk from another).\n\nFollowing the commercial treaty in the early 17th century between Mughal emperor Jahangir and James I of England, the East India Company obtained the exclusive rights to reside and build factories in Surat and other areas. Many Parsis, who until then had been living in farming communities throughout Gujarat, moved to the English-run settlements to take the new jobs offered. In 1668 the English East India Company leased the Seven Islands of Bombay from Charles II of England. The company found the deep harbour on the east coast of the islands to be ideal for setting up their first port in the sub-continent, and in 1687 they transferred their headquarters from Surat to the fledgling settlement. The Parsis followed and soon began to occupy posts of trust in connection with government and public works.\n\nWhere literacy had previously been the exclusive domain of the priesthood, in the era of the British Raj the British schools in India provided the new Parsi youth with the means not only to learn to read and write but also to be educated in the greater sense of the term and become familiar with the quirks of the British establishment. These capabilities were enormously useful to Parsis since they allowed them to \"represent themselves as being like the British,\" which they did \"more diligently and effectively than perhaps any other South Asian community\". While the British saw the other Indians \"as passive, ignorant, irrational, outwardly submissive but inwardly guileful\", the Parsis were seen to have the traits that the colonial authorities tended to ascribe to themselves. Johan Albrecht de Mandelslo (1638) saw them as \"diligent\", \"conscientious\", and \"skillful\" in their mercantile pursuits. Similar observations would be made by James Mackintosh, Recorder of Bombay from 1804 to 1811, who noted that \"the Parsees are a small remnant of one of the mightiest nations of the ancient world, who, flying from persecution into India, were for many ages lost in obscurity and poverty, till at length they met a just government under which they speedily rose to be one of the most popular mercantile bodies in Asia\".\n\nOne of these was an enterprising agent named Rustom Maneck. In 1702, Maneck, who had probably already amassed a fortune under the Dutch and Portuguese, was appointed the first broker to the East India Company (acquiring the name \"Seth\" in the process), and in the following years \"he and his Parsi associates widened the occupational and financial horizons of the larger Parsi community\". Thus, by the mid-18th century, the brokerage houses of the Bombay Presidency were almost all in Parsi hands. As James Forbes, the Collector of Broach (now Bharuch), would note in his \"Oriental Memoirs\" (1770): \"many of the principal merchants and owners of ships at Bombay and Surat are Parsees.\" \"Active, robust, prudent and persevering, they now form a very valuable part of the Company's subjects on the western shores of Hindustan where they are highly esteemed\".In the 18th century, Parsis with their skills in ship building and trade greatly benefited with trade between India and China.The trade was mainly in timber, silk, cotton and opium. For example Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy acquired most of his wealth through trade in cotton and opium Gradually certain families \"acquired wealth and prominence (Sorabji, Modi, Cama, Wadia, Jeejeebhoy, Readymoney, Dadyseth, Petit, Patel, Mehta, Allbless, Tata, etc.), many of which would be noted for their participation in the public life of the city, and for their various educational, industrial, and charitable enterprises.\").\n\nThrough his largesse, Maneck helped establish the infrastructure that was necessary for the Parsis to set themselves up in Bombay and in doing so \"established Bombay as the primary centre of Parsi habitation and work in the 1720s\". Following the political and economic isolation of Surat in the 1720s and 1730s that resulted from troubles between the (remnant) Mughal authorities and the increasingly dominant Marathas, a number of Parsi families from Surat migrated to the new city. While in 1700 \"fewer than a handful of individuals appear as merchants in any records; by mid-century, Parsis engaged in commerce constituted one of important commercial groups in Bombay\". Maneck's generosity is incidentally also the first documented instance of Parsi philanthropy. In 1689, Anglican chaplain John Ovington reported that in Surat the family \"assist the poor and are ready to provide for the sustenance and comfort of such as want it. Their universal kindness, either employing such as are ready and able to work, or bestowing a seasonable bounteous charity to such as are infirm and miserable, leave no man destitute of relief, nor suffer a beggar in all their tribe\".\nIn 1728 Rustom's eldest son Naoroz (later Naorojee) founded the \"Bombay Parsi Panchayat\" (in the sense of an instrument for self-governance and not in the sense of the trust it is today) to assist newly arriving Parsis in religious, social, legal and financial matters. Using their vast resources, the Maneck Seth family gave their time, energy and not inconsiderable financial resources to the Parsi community, with the result that by the mid-18th century, the Panchayat was the accepted means for Parsis to cope with the exigencies of urban life and the recognized instrument for regulating the affairs of the community. Nonetheless, by 1838 the Panchayat was under attack for impropriety and nepotism. In 1855 the \"Bombay Times\" noted that the Panchayat was utterly without the moral or legal authority to enforce its statutes (the \"Bundobusts\" or codes of conduct) and the council soon ceased to be considered representative of the community. In the wake of a July 1856 ruling by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council that it had no jurisdiction over the Parsis in matters of marriage and divorce, the Panchayat was reduced to little more than a Government-recognized \"Parsi Matrimonial Court\". Although the Panchayat would eventually be reestablished as the administrator of community property, it ultimately ceased to be an instrument for self-governance.\n\nAt about the same time as the role of the Panchayat was declining, a number of other institutions arose that would replace the Panchayat's role in contributing to the sense of social cohesiveness that the community desperately sought. By the mid-19th century, the Parsis were keenly aware that their numbers were declining and saw education as a possible solution to the problem. In 1842 Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy established the Parsi Benevolent Fund with the aim of improving, through education, the condition of the impoverished Parsis still living in Surat and its environs. In 1849 the Parsis established their first school (co-educational, which was a novelty at the time, but would soon be split into separate schools for boys and girls) and the education movement quickened. The number of Parsi schools multiplied, but other schools and colleges were also freely attended. Accompanied by better education and social cohesiveness, the community's sense of distinctiveness grew, and in 1854 Dinshaw Maneckji Petit founded the Persian Zoroastrian Amelioration Fund with the aim of improving conditions for his less fortunate co-religionists in Iran. The fund succeeded in convincing a number of Iranian Zoroastrians to emigrate to India (where they are known today as Iranis) and the efforts of its emissary Maneckji Limji Hataria may have been instrumental in obtaining a remission of the jizya for their co-religionists in 1882.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries, the Parsis had emerged as \"the foremost people in India in matters educational, industrial, and social. They came in the vanguard of progress, amassed vast fortunes, and munificently gave away large sums in charity\". By the close of the 19th century, the total number of Parsis in colonial India was 85,397, of which 48,507 lived in Bombay, constituting 6% of the total population of the city (Census, 1881). This would be the last time that the Parsis would be considered a numerically significant minority in the city.\n\nNonetheless, the legacy of the 19th century was a sense of self-awareness as a community. The typically Parsi cultural symbols of the 17th and 18th centuries such as language (a Parsi variant of Gujarati), arts, crafts, and sartorial habits developed into Parsi theatre, literature, newspapers, magazines, and schools. The Parsis now ran community medical centres, ambulance corps, Scouting troops, clubs, and Masonic Lodges. They had their own charitable foundations, housing estates, legal institutions, courts, and governance. They were no longer weavers and petty merchants, but now were established and ran banks, mills, heavy industry, shipyards, and shipping companies. Moreover, even while maintaining their own cultural identity they did not fail to recognize themselves as nationally Indian, as Dadabhai Naoroji, the first Asian to occupy a seat in the British Parliament would note: \"Whether I am a Hindu, a Mohammedan, a Parsi, a Christian, or of any other creed, I am above all an Indian. Our country is India; our nationality is Indian\".\n\nThe main components of Zoroastrianism as practiced by the Parsi community are the concepts of purity and pollution (nasu), initiation (navjot), daily prayers, worship at Fire Temples, marriage, funerals, and general worship.\n\nThe balance between good and evil is correlated to the idea of purity and pollution. Purity is held to be of the very essence of godliness. Pollution's very point is to destroy purity through the death of a human. In order to adhere to purity it is the duty of Parsis to continue to preserve purity within their body as God created them. A Zoroastrian priest spends his entire life dedicated to following a holy life.\n\nZoroastrians are not initiated by infant baptism. Normally, a child is initiated into the faith when he or she is old enough to choose to enter into the faith. The initiation begins with a ritual bath, then a spiritual cleansing prayer; the child changes into white pajama pants, a shawl, and a small cap. Following introductory prayers, the child is given the sacred items that are associated with Zoroastrianism: a sacred shirt and cord, sudre, and kusti. The child then faces the main priest and fire is brought in to represent God. Once the priest finishes with the prayers, the child’s initiation is complete and he or she is now a part of the community and religion.\n\nMarriage is very important to the members of the Parsi community, believing that, in order to continue the expansion of God’s kingdom, they must procreate. Up until the mid-19th century child marriages were common even though the idea of child marriage was not part of the religious doctrine. Consequently, when social reform started happening in India, the Parsi community discontinued the practice. There are, however, rising problems over the availability of brides. More and more women in the Parsi community are becoming well educated and are therefore either delaying marriage or not partaking at all. Women within the Parsi community in India are ninety-seven percent literate; forty-two percent have completed high school or college and twenty-nine percent have an occupation in which they earn a substantial amount of money. The wedding ceremony begins much like the initiation with a cleansing bath. The bride and groom then travel to the wedding in florally decorated cars. The priests from both families facilitate the wedding. The couple begins by facing one another with a sheet to block their view of one another. Wool is passed over the two seven times to bind them together. The two are then supposed to throw rice to their partner symbolizing dominance. The religious element comes in next when the two sit side by side to face the priest.\n\nThe pollution that is associated with death has to be handled carefully. A separate part of the home is designated to house the corpse for funeral proceedings before being taken away. The priest comes to say prayers that are for the cleansing of sins and to affirm the faith of the deceased. Fire is brought to the room and prayers are begun. The body is washed and inserted clean within a sudre and kusti. The ceremony then begins, and a circle is drawn around the body into which only the bearers may enter. As they proceed to the cemetery they walk in pairs and are connected by white fabric. A dog is essential in the funeral process because it is able to see death. The body is taken to the tower of death where the vultures feed on it. Once the bones are bleached by the sun they are pushed into the circular opening in the center. The mourning process is four days long, and rather than creating graves for the dead, charities are established in honor of the person.\n\nZoroastrian festivals were originally held outside in the open air; temples were not common until later. Most of the temples were built by wealthy Parsis who needed centers that housed purity. As stated before, fire is considered to represent the presence of Ahura Mazda, and there are two distinct differences for the types of fire for the different temples. The first type of temple is the Atash Behram, which is the highest level of fire. The fire is prepared for an entire year before it can be installed, and once it is, it is cared for to the highest possible degree. There are only eight such temples located within India. The second type of fire temple is called a Dar-i Mihr, and the preparation process is not as intense. There are about 160 of these located throughout India.\n\n\"This section contains information specific to the Parsi calendar. For information on the calendar used by the Zoroastrians for religious purposes, including details on its history and its variations, see Zoroastrian calendar.\"\n\nUntil about the 12th century, all Zoroastrians followed the same 365-day religious calendar, which had remained largely unmodified since the calendar reforms of Ardashir I (\"r.\" 226-241 AD). Since that calendar did not compensate for the fractional days that go to make up a full solar year, with time it was no longer accordant with the seasons.\n\nSometime between 1125 and 1250 (\"cf.\" ), the Parsis inserted an embolismic month to level out the accumulating fractional days. However, the Parsis were the only Zoroastrians to do so (and did it only once), with the result that, from then on, the calendar in use by the Parsis and the calendar in use by Zoroastrians elsewhere diverged by a matter of thirty days. The calendars still had the same name, \"Shahenshahi\" (imperial), presumably because none were aware that the calendars were no longer the same.\n\nIn 1745 the Parsis in and around Surat switched to the \"Kadmi\" or \"Kadimi\" calendar on the recommendation of their priests who were convinced that the calendar in use in the ancient homeland must be correct. Moreover, they denigrated the \"Shahenshahi\" calendar as being \"royalist\".\n\nIn 1906 attempts to bring the two factions together resulted in the introduction of a third calendar based on an 11th-century Seljuk model: the \"Fasili\", or \"Fasli\", calendar had leap days intercalated every four years and it had a New Year's day that fell on the day of the vernal equinox. Although it was the only calendar always in harmony with the seasons, most members of the Parsi community rejected it on the grounds that it was not in accord with the injunctions expressed in Zoroastrian tradition (\"Dēnkard\" 3.419).\n\nToday the majority of Parsis are adherents of the Parsi version of the \"Shahenshahi\" calendar although the \"Kadmi\" calendar does have its adherents among the Parsi communities of Surat and Bharuch. The \"Fasli\" calendar does not have a significant following among Parsis, but, by virtue of being compatible with the \"Bastani\" calendar (an Iranian development with the same salient features as the \"Fasli\" calendar), it is predominant among the Zoroastrians of Iran.\n\nSince some of the Avesta prayers contain references to the names of the months, and some other prayers are used only at specific times of the year, the issue of which calendar is \"correct\" also has theological ramifications.\n\nTo further complicate matters, in the late 18th century (or early 19th century) a highly influential head-priest and staunch proponent of the \"Kadmi\" calendar, Phiroze Kaus Dastur of the Dadyseth Atash-Behram in Bombay, became convinced that the pronunciation of prayers as recited by visitors from Iran was correct, while the pronunciation as used by the Parsis was not. He accordingly went on to alter some (but not all) of the prayers, which in due course came to be accepted by all adherents of the \"Kadmi\" calendar as the more ancient (and thus presumably correct). However, scholars of Avestan language and linguistics attribute the difference in pronunciation to a vowel-shift that occurred only in Iran and that the Iranian pronunciation as adopted by the \"Kadmi\"s is actually more recent than the pronunciation used by the non-\"Kadmi\" Parsis.\n\nThe calendar disputes were not always purely academic, either. In the 1780s, emotions over the controversy ran so high that violence occasionally erupted. In 1783 a \"Shahenshahi\" resident of Bharuch named Homaji Jamshedji was sentenced to death for kicking a young \"Kadmi\" woman and so causing her to miscarry.\n\nOf the eight Atash-Behrams (the highest grade of fire temple) in India, three follow the \"Kadmi\" pronunciation and calendar, the other five are \"Shahenshahi\". The \"Fassali\"s do not have their own Atash-Behram.\n\nThe \"Ilm-e-Kshnoom\" ('science of ecstasy', or 'science of bliss') is a school of Parsi-Zoroastrian philosophy based on a mystic and esoteric, rather than literal, interpretation of religious texts. According to adherents of the sect, they are followers of the Zoroastrian faith as preserved by a clan of 2000 individuals called the \"Saheb-e-Dilan\" ('Masters of the Heart') who are said to live in complete isolation in the mountainous recesses of the Caucasus (alternatively, in the Alborz range, around Mount Damavand).\n\nThere are few obvious indications that a Parsi might be a follower of the Kshnoom. Although their \"Kusti\" prayers are very similar to those used by the \"Fassali\"s, like the rest of the Parsi community the followers of Kshnoom are divided with respect to which calendar they observe. There are also other minor differences in their recitation of the liturgy, such as repetition of some sections of the longer prayers. Nonetheless, the Kshnoom are extremely conservative in their ideology and prefer isolation even with respect to other Parsis.\n\nThe largest community of followers of the Kshnoom lives in Jogeshwari, a suburb of Bombay, where they have their own fire temple (Behramshah Nowroji Shroff Daremeher), their own housing colony (Behram Baug) and their own newspaper (\"Parsi Pukar\"). There is a smaller concentration of adherents in Surat, where the sect was founded in the last decades of the 19th century.\n\nIt has been traditional, in Mumbai and Karachi at least, for dead Parsis to be taken to the Towers of Silence where the corpses are quickly eaten by the city's vultures. The reason given for this practice is that earth, fire, and water are considered sacred elements which should not be defiled by the dead. Therefore, burial and cremation have always been prohibited in Parsi culture. However, in modern day Mumbai and Karachi the population of vultures has drastically reduced due to extensive urbanization and the unintended consequence of treating humans and livestock with antibiotics, and the anti-inflammatory diclofenac, both of which harm vultures. This issue led to the Indian vulture crisis, which led to the ban of the drug diclofenac. As a result, the bodies of the deceased are taking much longer to decompose. Solar panels have been installed in the Towers of Silence to speed up the decomposition process, but this has been only partially successful especially during monsoons. In Peshawar a Parsi graveyard was established in the late 19th century, which still exists; this cemetery is unique as there is no Tower of Silence. Nevertheless, the majority of Parsis still use the traditional method of disposing off their loved ones and consider this as the last act of charity by the deceased on earth.\n\nThe Tower of Silence in Mumbai is located at Malabar Hill. In Karachi, the Tower of Silence is located in Parsi Colony, near the Chanesar Goth and Mehmoodabad localities.\n\nThe genetic studies of Parsis of Pakistan show sharp contrast between genetic data obtained from mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and Y-chromosome DNA (Y-DNA), different from most populations. Historical records suggests that they had moved from Iran to Gujarat, India and then to Mumbai and Karachi, Pakistan. According to Y-DNA, they resemble the Iranian population, which supports historical records. When the mtDNA pool is compared to Iranians and Gujaratis (their putative parental populations), it contrasted Y-DNA data. About 60% of their maternal gene pool originates from South Asian haplogroups, which is just 7% in Iranians. Parsis have a high frequency of haplogroup M (55%), similar to Indians, which is just 1.7% in combined Iranian sample. The studies suggest sharp contrast between the maternal and paternal component of Parsis. Due to high diversity in Y-DNA and mtDNA lineages, the strong drift effect is unlikely even though they had a small population. The studies suggest a male-mediated migration of Parsi ancestors from Iran to Gujarat where they admixed with the local female population during initial settlements, which ultimately resulted in loss of Iranian mtDNA.\n\nA study published in \"Genome Biology\" based on high density SNP data has shown that the Parsis are genetically closer to Iranian and Caucasus populations than to their South Asian neighbours. They also share the highest number of haplotypes with present-day Iranians; the admixture of the Parsis with Indian populations was estimated have occurred approximately 1,200 years ago. It is also found that Parsis are genetically closer to Neolithic Iranians than to modern Iranians who had recently received the genes from the Near East.\n\nParsis have been shown to have unusually high rates of breast cancer bladder cancer, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency and Parkinson's disease.\n\nThe Parsis have made considerable contributions to the history and development of India, all the more remarkable considering their small numbers. As the maxim \"Parsi, thy name is charity\" alludes to, their most prominent contribution is their philanthropy.\n\nAlthough their people's name Parsi comes from the Persian-language word for a Persian person, in Sanskrit the term means \"one who gives alms\". Mahatma Gandhi would note in a much misquoted statement, \"I am proud of my country, India, for having produced the splendid Zoroastrian stock, in numbers beneath contempt, but in charity and philanthropy perhaps unequaled and certainly unsurpassed.\"\n\nSeveral landmarks in Mumbai are named after Parsis, including Nariman Point. The Malabar Hill in Mumbai, is a home to several prominent Parsis. Parsis prominent in the Indian independence movement include Pherozeshah Mehta, Dadabhai Naoroji, and Bhikaiji Cama.\n\nParticularly notable Parsis in the fields of science and industry include physicist Homi J. Bhabha, Homi N. Sethna, J. R. D. Tata and Jamsetji Tata, regarded as the \"Father of Indian Industry\". Karachi-based businessman Byram Dinshawji Avari is the founder of Avari Group of companies, and is a twice Asian Games gold medalist. The families Godrej, Tata, Petit, Cowasjee and Wadia are important industrial Parsi families.\n\nOther Parsi businessmen are Ratanji Dadabhoy Tata, J. R. D. Tata, Dinshaw Maneckji Petit, Ness Wadia, Neville Wadia, Jehangir Wadia and Nusli Wadiaall of them related through marriage to Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan. Mohammad Ali Jinnah's wife Rattanbai Petit, was born into two of the Parsi PetitTata families, and their daughter Dina Jinnah was married to Parsi industrialist Neville Wadia, the scion of the Wadia family. The husband of Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and son-in-law of Jawaharlal Nehru, Feroze Gandhi, was a Parsi with ancestral roots in Bharuch.\n\nThe Parsi community has given India several distinguished military officers. Field Marshal Sam Hormusji Framji Jamshedji Manekshaw, Military Cross, the architect of India's victory in the 1971 war, was the first officer of the Indian Army to be appointed a Field Marshal. Admiral Jal Cursetji was the first Parsi to be appointed Chief of the Naval Staff of the Indian Navy. Air Marshal Aspy Engineer served as India's second Chief of Air Staff, post independence, and Air Chief Marshal. Fali Homi Major served as the 18th Chief of Air Staff. Vice Admiral RF Contractor served as the 17th Chief of the Indian Coast Guard. Lieutenant Colonel Ardeshir Burjorji Tarapore was killed in action in the 1965 Indo-Pakistan war and was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, India's highest military award for gallantry in action. Lieutenant General FN Bilimoria was a senior officer of the Indian Army and the father of Lord Karan Bilimoria, founder of the Cobra Beer company.\n\nParticularly notable Parsis in other areas of achievement include cricketers Farokh Engineer and Polly Umrigar, rock star Freddie Mercury, composer Kaikhosru Shapurji Sorabji and conductor Zubin Mehta; cultural studies theorist Homi K. Bhabha; screenwriter and photographer Sooni Taraporevala; authors Rohinton Mistry, Firdaus Kanga, Bapsi Sidhwa, Ardashir Vakil and Pakistani investigative journalist Ardeshir Cowasjee; actor Boman Irani; educator Jamshed Bharucha, India's first woman photo-journalist Homai Vyarawalla; Actresses Nina Wadia, Sanaya Irani and Persis Khambatta are Parsi who appear primarily in Bollywood films and television serials. Naxalite leader and intellectual Kobad Ghandy is a Parsi. Dorab Patel was Pakistan's first Parsi Supreme Court Justice. Fali S Nariman is a constitutional expert and noted jurist. Rattana Pestonji was a Parsi living in Thailand who helped develop Thai cinema. Firdaus Kharas is a Parsi humanitarian and activist who has helped pioneer the use of animation in social entrepreneurship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35846867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35846867", "title": "Perth Glory FC end of season awards", "text": "Perth Glory FC end of season awards\n\nThe Perth Glory End of Season Awards are the individual awards won by players of the Australian football club, Perth Glory, who compete in each of the A-League, National Youth League and W-League competitions. These awards are presented annually at the clubs' presentation night following the completion of the A-League season.\n"}
{"id": "35673813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35673813", "title": "Philéas Lebesgue", "text": "Philéas Lebesgue\n\nPhiléas Lebesgue (26 November 1869 in La Neuville-Vault, Picardy, France - 11 October 1958 in the same village) was a French essayist and translator. At once a poet, novelist, essayist, translator and literary critic.\n\nPhiléas Lebesgue, French writer, editor of the \"Mercure de France\", was born and died in La Neuville-vault where his parents were farmers. He succeeded after their demise. He then leads the head being a farmer in his village and a literary career which will include travel to Portugal, Greece and Yugoslavia, the three countries which he held the literary chronicle the Mercure de France.\n\nAfter the Latin, English and Greek, studied in college, he learned other languages and wrote his first poems. In 1896 he became editor of the Mercure de France, an international journal He was the chronicler of \"Portuguese Letters\" and will remain so until 1951. It is one of the few critics to discover and enjoy the great Portuguese poet Pessoa, in 1913. \nPhileas Lebesgue included at least 16 foreign languages. These are German, English, Danish, Spanish, Galician, Welsh, Greek, Italian, Norwegian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Serbo-Croatian Slovenian and Czech. Must be added the Sanskrit, Old French, and three regional languages in France: Breton, Provençal and Picard spoke to his village. He has worked on magazines in foreign languages, including L'Arte (Coimbra, 1895-1896), Atlantida (Lisbon, 1917), O Mundo (Lisbon, 1915), The Panathenaic (Athens, 1910), Periodikon nios (Piraeus, 1900), The Vos (Madrid, 1923).\n\nFrom 1926, Phileas Lebesgue chairs the Academy of the ten provinces and the League of provincial writers, with which it attempts to consolidate regional writers, foreign and colonial French.\n\nPoet symbolist in its infancy, Phileas Lebesgue written in verse as well as traditional free verse. He wrote a poem in free verse or traditional, often evoking the landscapes of his country of Bray.\n\nHe is a novelist, songwriter, playwright, literary critic, columnist, translator, and mayor of La Neuville-Vault from 1908 to 1947. In his works, he was inspired by nature, history, rural life, his travels and esotericism.\n\nThe esotericism of Phileas Lebesgue is only poetic as that of his friend Oscar Milosz . In 1911, he joined the French Celtic League, created by the poet Robert Pelletier, to refute the \"lies\" of the Latin character of France. He agrees to be the « Grand Druide des Gaules », the spiritual authority of the Collège bardique des Gaules founded in 1933 by poet and publisher of music, Jacques Heugel, association that terminates in 1939.\n\nHe was already in Breton bard who received the second prize of L'Hermine in 1892.\n\nIt was founded in 1930, Philéas Lebesgue's lifetime, by Camille Belliard and Marius Alphonse Gossez, teachers. The purpose of association is then to make known the life and work of the writer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29188969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29188969", "title": "Rolla M. Tryon Jr.", "text": "Rolla M. Tryon Jr.\n\nRolla Milton Tryon Jr. (August 26, 1916 – August 20, 2001) was an American botanist who specialized in the systematics and evolution of ferns and other spore-dispersed plants (pteridology). His particular focus and interest lay in two areas, historical biogeography of ferns and the taxonomy of tropical American ferns.\n\nRolla Milton Tryon Jr. was born August 26, 1916 in Chicago. His father was an American history and education professor at the University of Chicago.\n\nTryon's first scientific paper was published in 1934 (at the age of 18) on the ferns in Chesterton, Indiana where his family’s summer cottage was located. In 1935, he received his A.A. degree and in 1937 his B.S., both from the University of Chicago. He enrolled in the University of Wisconsin for a Ph.M., graduating in 1938. Then, at Harvard, earning he earned both his M.S. in 1940 and Ph.D. in 1941 working with Merritt Lyndon Fernald and Charles Alfred Weatherby on ferns in the genera \"Pteridium\" and \"Doryopteris\".\n\nDuring World War II, he worked as a lab technician in the U.S. Chemical Warfare Service at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After the war, he returned to teach at Dartmouth College. then at the University of Wisconsin, where he met his future wife and lifelong collaborator, Alice Faber, a student at the time. In 1947, Tryon joined the faculty at Washington University in Saint Louis as an Associate Professor of Botany and became assistant curator in the herbarium of the Missouri Botanical Garden.\n\nTryon left Missouri in 1957 to travel with Alice to Peru to study the fern flora of the American tropics. When they returned, Tryon served as a research associate at the University of California Herbarium at Berkeley. In 1958, Tryon returned to Harvard as Curator of Ferns at the Gray Herbarium where he remained with his wife until 1987. In 1972, he became a professor of biology at Harvard. \n\nThe two Tryons wrote a complete survey of ferns, \"Ferns and Allied Plants: with Special Reference to Tropical America,\" with emphasis on tropical America, which was published in 1982.\n\nTryon was a member of the American Fern Society for 69 years, starting in 1932, and held various roles in the society including curator and librarian of the library and herbarium from 1946 to 1957; president from 1974-1975; he was made an honorary member in 1978. At the New England Botanical Club, he was recording secretary from 1964-1968, associate editor of the Society’s Journal Rhodora from 1961-1977, editor-in-chief from 1977-1981, vice-president from 1984-1986 and president from 1986-1988. In 1984, he received a Merit Award from the Botanical Society of America.\n\nFollowing his Harvard retirement, he became an adjunct professor at the University of South Florida in Tampa. He died August 20, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "19252778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19252778", "title": "Sagid Murtazaliev", "text": "Sagid Murtazaliev\n\nSagid Magomedovich Murtazaliev (; ; born 11 March 1974) is a Russian freestyle wrestler. Born in Makhachkala, Dagestan and of Avar descent, Murtazaliev has won gold medals in heavyweight divisions at the 1999 FILA World Championships and the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n\nMurtazaliev represented Ukraine at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, and represented Russia at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, where he won gold in the men's freestyle 97 kg competition.\n\nIn 2013, he returned his medal to the IOC in protest of its vote to briefly drop wrestling from the Summer Olympic programme.\n\nIn 2001, a bomb was found near Murtazaliev's home in Kizlyar. A charitable foundation is named after Sagid Murtazaliev. On April 12, 2010, Murtazaliev, who had been the head of Kizlyarsky District, became the head of the Dagestan branch of the Russian pension fund. Murtazaliev was a United Russia party deputy to the Legislative Assembly of the Republic of Dagestan. In 2015, the prosecution office opened a criminal case against Murtazaliev on financing terrorism as well as suspected him in relation to a number of murders. Murtazaliev left Russia and is currently wanted by the prosecution.\n"}
{"id": "3275083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275083", "title": "Sarakatsani", "text": "Sarakatsani\n\nThe Sarakatsani (, also written Karakachani, ) are an ethnic Greek population subgroup who were traditionally transhumant shepherds, native to Greece, with a smaller presence in neighbouring Bulgaria, southern Albania and the Republic of Macedonia. Historically centred on the Pindus mountains and other mountain ranges in continental Greece, most Sarakatsani have abandoned the transhumant way of life and have been urbanised.\n\nThe most widely accepted theory for the origin of the name \"Sarakatsani\" is that it comes from the Turkish word \"karakaçan\" (from \"kara\" = 'black' and \"kaçan\" = 'fugitive'), used by the Ottomans, in reference to those people who dressed in black and fled to the mountains during the Ottoman occupation of Greece. According to another theory, the name derives from the village of Sakaretsi, the supposed homeland of the Sarakatsani.\n\nDespite the silence of the classical and medieval writers, scholars argue that the Sarakatsani are a Greek people, possibly descended from pre-classical indigenous pastoralists, citing linguistic evidence and certain aspects of their traditional culture and socioeconomic organisation. A popular theory, based on linguistics and material culture, suggests that the Sarakatsani are descended from the Dorians, who were isolated for centuries in the mountains. \n\nTheir origins have been the subject of broad and permanent interest, resulting in several fieldwork studies by anthropologists among the Sarakatsani.\n\nMany of the 19th century descriptions of the Sarakatsani do not differentiate them from the other great shepherd people of Greece, the Vlachs, a Romance-speaking population. In many instances the Sarakatsani were identified as \"Vlachs\". Aravantinos discusses how another group, the Arvanitovlachs, were erroneously called \"Sarakatsani\", although the latter were clearly of Greek origin, increasing the differences between the two groups and stating that the Arvanitovlachs were actually yet another group, the \"Garagounides\" or \"Korakounides\". The Sarakatsani have also been referred to as \"Roumeliotes\" or \"Moraites\", names based on where they lived. Otto, the first king of modern Greece, was well-known to be a great admirer of the Sarakatsani, and is said to have fathered an illegitimate child early in his reign with a woman from a Sarakatsani clan named Tangas.\n\nSince the 20th century a multitude of scholars have studied the linguistic, cultural and racial background of the Sarakatsani. Among these, Danish scholar Carsten Høeg, who travelled twice to Greece between 1920 and 1925 and studied the dialect and narrations of the Sarakatsani, is arguably the most influential. He found no traces of foreign elements in the Sarakatsani dialect and no traces of sedentism in their material culture. Furthermore, he looked for examples of nomadism in classical Greece, similar to that of the Sarakatsani. He visited the Sarakatsani of Epirus and mentioned other groups with no fixed villages in several other parts of Greece as well.\n\nBeuermann, a German scholar, rejects Høeg's interpretations that the Sarakatsani are \"the purest of the ancient Greek population.\" There appears to be no written mention of the Sarakatsani previous to the 18th century, but that does not necessarily imply that they did not exist earlier. It is likely the term 'Sarakatsani' is a relatively new generic name given to an old population that lived for centuries in isolation from the other inhabitants of what is today Greece.\n\nGeorgakas (1949) and Kavadias (1965) believe that the Sarakatsani are either descendants of ancient nomads who inhabited the mountain regions of Greece in the pre-classical times, or they are descended from sedentary Greek peasants forced to leave their original settlements around the 14th century who became nomadic shepherds. Angeliki Hatzimihali, a Greek folklorist who spent a lifetime among the Sarakatsani, emphasises the prototypical elements of Greek culture that she found in the pastoral way of life, social organisation and art forms of the Sarakatsani. She also points out the similarity between their decorative art and the geometric art of pre-classical Greece.\n\nEnglish historian and anthropologist John K. Campbell arrives at the conclusion that the Sarakatsani must have always lived in—more or less—the same conditions and areas as they were found in his days of research in the mid-1950s. He also highlights the differences between them and the Vlachs, regarding the Sarakatsani as a distinctive social group within the Greek nation. As a result of his field studies of the Sarakatsani of Epirus, Nicholas Hammond, a British historian, considers them descendants of Greek pastoralists living in the region of Gramos and Pindus since the early Byzantine period, who were dispossessed of their pastures by the Vlachs at the latest by the 12th century.\n\nThere are other less popular theories about the origin of the Sarakatsani. Among them E. Makris (1990) believes that they are a pre-Neolithic people, while London-based scholar John Nandris inserts them into a more complex context of nomadic people interacting with one another, and Arnold van Gennep connects the Sarakatsani with the Yörüks.\n\nRomanian and Aromanian scholars have tried to prove a common origin for the Sarakatsani and the Aromanians The latter—also known as Vlachs—constitute the other major transhumant ethnic group in Greece and speak Aromanian, an eastern Romance language, while the Sarakatsani speak a northern dialect of Greek.\n\nThe Sarakatsani partially share a common geographic distribution with the Vlachs in Greece, although the Sarakatsani extend farther to the south. Despite the differences between the two populations, they are often confused with each other due to their common transhumant way of life. Moreover, the term 'Vlach' has been used in Greece since the Byzantine times to refer indiscriminately to all transhumant pastoralists. Besides, the presumption that a nomadic society, such as the Sarakatsani, would abandon its language, then translate all of its verbal tradition into Greek and create within a few generations a separate Greek dialect, has to be assumed with caution.\n\nJohn Campbell states, after his own field work among the Sarakatsani in the 1950s, that the Sarakatsani are in a different position from the Vlachs, meaning the Aromanians and the Arvanitovlachs. The Vlachs are usually bilingual in Greek and Aromanian, while the Sarakatsani communities have always spoken only Greek and have known no other language. He also asserts that the increasing pressure on the limited areas available for winter grazing in the coastal plains has resulted in disputes between the two groups on the use of the pastures. In addition, during the time of his research, many Vlachs often lived in substantial villages where shepherding was not among their occupations, and demonstrated different art forms, values and institutions, from those of the Sarakatsani. The Sarakatsani also differ from the Vlachs in that they dower their daughters, assign a lower position to women and adhere to an even stricter patriarchal structure.\n\nAccording to Gheorghe Bogdan, the Sarakatsans based on linguistics and traditions are possibly a population descended from the Vlachs, having assimilated to the Greek language.\n\nThe Sarakatsani themselves have always stressed their Greek identity and deny having any relationship with the Vlachs. The Vlachs also regard the Sarakatsani as a distinct ethnic group, calling them Graeci (i.e. Greeks), a name used by Aromanians to distinguish the Greek-speaking populations from themselves, the Armânji.\n\nToday, almost all Sarakatsani have abandoned their nomadic way of life and assimilated to mainstream modern Greek life, but there have been efforts to preserve their cultural heritage. The traditional Sarakatsani settlements, dress and costumes make them a distinct social and cultural group within the collective Greek heritage, and they are not considered among the Greeks to constitute an ethnic minority. Their distinctive folk arts consist of song, dance, and poetry, as well as decorative sculptures in wood and embroidery on their traditional costumes, which resemble the geometric art of pre-classical Greece. In medicine, they use a number of folk remedies including herbs, honey and lamb's blood.\n\nThe Sarakatsani speak a northern Greek dialect, Sarakatsanika (Σαρακατσάνικα), which contains many archaic Greek elements that have not survived in other variants of modern Greek. Carsten Høeg states that there are no significant traces of foreign loan words in the Sarakatsani dialect, and that foreign elements are not found either phonetically or in the grammatical structure. Despite the fact that Sarakatsanika includes a few words related to pastoralism of Aromanian origin, the Aromanian influences on the Sarakatsani dialect are the result of recent contacts and economical dependencies between the two groups.\n\nThe kinship system among the Sarakatsani adheres to a strong patrilineal descent system. When reckoning descent, lineage is traced along the paternal line alone; in determining family relationships, the descendants of a man's maternal and paternal grandparents provide the field from which his recognized kin are drawn. Kinship is not counted beyond the degree of the second cousin. Within the kinship, the family constitutes the significant unit and is a corporate group. A conjugal pair is the core of the extended family, which also includes their unmarried offspring and often their young married sons and their wives. The Sarakatsani kindred constitutes a network of shared obligations and cooperation in situations concerning the honor of its members.\n\nTheir marriages are arranged and there can be no marriage between two members of the same kindred. The bride must bring into the marriage a dowry of household furnishings, clothing and more recently sheep or their cash equivalent. The husband's contribution is his share of the flocks held by his father, which remain held in common by his paternal joint household until some years after his marriage. The newlywed couple initially takes up residence near the husband's family of origin, while divorce and remarriage after widowhood are unknown.\n\nThe concept of honor is of great importance to the Sarakatsani and the behaviour of any member of a family reflects upon all its members. Therefore, the avoidance of negative public opinion provides a strong incentive to live up to the values and standards of propriety held by the community as a whole. Men have as their duty the protection of the family's honor and are watchful of the behaviour of the rest of the members of the household.\n\nThe Sarakatsani are Greek Orthodox Christians and affiliated with the Church of Greece.\n\nThe Sarakatsani honor the feast days of Saint George and Saint Demetrius, which fall just before their seasonal migrations in late spring and early winter, respectively. Especially for the Saint George's feast day, a family feasts on lamb in the saint's honor, a ritual that also marks Christmas and the Resurrection of Christ, while Easter week is the most important ritual period in Sarakatsani religious life. Other ceremonial events, outside the formal Christian calendar, are weddings and funerals; the latter are ritual occasions that involve not only the immediate family of the deceased, but also the members of the largest kindred, while funerary practice is consistent with that of the church. Mourning is most marked among the women and most of all by the widow.\n\nThe Sarakatsani traditionally have spent the summer months in the mountains and returned to the lower plains in the winter. The migration would start on the eve of Saint George's day in April and the return migration would begin on Saint Demetrius' day, on 26 October. However, according to a theory, the Sarakatsani were not always nomads, but only turned to harsh nomadic mountain life to escape Ottoman rule. The Sarakatsani were found in several mountainous regions of continental Greece, with some groups of northern Greece moving to neighbouring countries in the summer, since border crossings between Greece, Albania, Bulgaria and the former Yugoslavia were relatively unobstructed until the middle of the 20th century. After 1947, with the beginning of the Cold War, borders between these countries were sealed; and some Sarakatsani groups were trapped in other countries and not able to return to Greece.\n\nTraditional Sarakatsani settlements were located on or near grazing lands both during summers and winters. The most characteristic type of dwelling was a domed hut, framed of branches and covered with thatch. A second type was a wood-beamed, thatched, rectangular structure. In both types, the centerpiece of the dwelling was a stone hearth. The floors and walls were plastered with mud and mule dung. Since the late 1930s, national requirements for the registration of citizens have led most of the Sarakatsani to adopt as legal residence the villages associated with summer grazing lands, and many have since built permanent houses in such villages.\nTheir traditional settlements consist of a group of cooperating houses, generally linked by ties of kinship or marriage. They build the houses in a cluster on flat land close to the pasturage, with supporting structures nearby. This complex is called \"stani\" (στάνη), a term also used to refer to the cooperative group sharing the leased land. The head of each participating family pays a share at the end of each season to tselingas, the stani leader, in whose name the lease was originally taken. Inheritance of an individual's property and wealth generally passes to the males of the family; sons inherit a share of the flocks and property owned by their fathers and mothers, although household goods may pass to daughters.\n\nTheir life centers year-round on the needs of their flocks; men and boys are usually responsible for the protection and general care of the flocks, like shearing and milking, while women are occupied with the building of the dwellings, sheepfolds and goat pens; child care, and other domestic tasks, including preparing, spinning and dying the shorn wool; and tending chickens, the eggs of which are their only source of personal income. Women also keep household vegetable gardens, with some wild herbs used to supplement the family diet. When boys are old enough to help with the flocks, they accompany their fathers and are taught the skills they will someday need. Similarly, girls learn through observing and assisting their mothers.\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, the Sarakatsani were scattered in many parts of Greece, with those of the northern Greek regions moving frequently for the summer months to neighbouring countries, such as Albania, southern Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and East Thrace in Turkey. In the 1940s the borders between these countries were closed, and small numbers of Sarakatsani had to settle down outside of Greece. Today, the majority of them do live in Greece, with some still in Bulgaria. There are no data on their number in Albania and the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nIt has been difficult to establish the exact number of the Sarakatsani over the years, since they were dispersed and migrated in summer and winter and were not considered a distinct group such that census data have not included separate information on them. As well, they were often confused with other population groups, especially the Vlachs. However, in the mid-1950s their number was estimated at 80,000 in Greece, but it was a period in which the process of urbanization had already started for large numbers of Greeks, and the number of the Sarakatsani who had already ceased to be transhumant shepherds sometime in the past was unknown.\n\nThe Sarakatsani populations can be primarily found in several regions of continental Greece: in the Pindus mountain range and its southern extensions of Giona, Parnassus and Panaitoliko in Central Greece; in central Euboea, in the mountains of northern Peloponnese, in the Rhodope Mountains in Greece, in Greek Thrace, in the mountains near Olympus and Ossa , and in parts of Greek Macedonia. The vast majority of the Sarakatsani have abandoned the nomadic way of life and live permanently in their villages, while many members of the younger generation have moved to the principal Greek cities.\n\nIn Bulgaria, according to the 2011 census, 2,556 individuals were identified as Sarakatsani, (, karakachani), a number significantly reduced from the 4,107 Sarakatsani identified in the 2001 census. However, their actual number is estimated to be as many as 25,000. Most live in the areas of the Balkan range, Mount Rila and northeastern Bulgaria. In 1991, they established the Federation of the Cultural and Educational Associations of Karakachans in Sliven.\n\nThe Sarakatsani in Bulgaria self-identify as Greeks, considering themselves the \"purest of Greeks.\" They also call themselves Bulgarian Karakachans, since they live in Bulgaria, where their ancestors, in a few cases, were also born. Contrary to their Greek dialect and self-identification, the Bulgarian government regards the Sarakatsani as an ethnic group separate from other Greeks in Bulgaria. Bulgarians consider them to be probably of Vlach or Slavic origin. An alternative Bulgarian theory claims that the Sarakatsani are descendants of Hellenized Thracians who, because of their isolation in the mountains, were not Slavicised.\n\nInformation about the Sarakatsani in the Republic of Macedonia is scarce, probably to avoid any Greek claims upon the modern state's territory due to the Sarakatsani's Greek origin. However, the Sarakatsani are said to have resided in mountainous regions near Bitola and south of Skopje, but their presence has extended even further north, into Kosovo.\n\nIn her book \"An Island Apart\", the travel writer Sarah Wheeler traces scions of the Sarakatsani in Euboea. They can also be found in the island of Poros. She writes:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2474738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2474738", "title": "Stay-behind", "text": "Stay-behind\n\nIn a stay-behind operation, a country places secret operatives or organizations in its own territory, for use in the event that an enemy occupies that territory. If this occurs, the operatives would then form the basis of a resistance movement or act as spies from behind enemy lines. Small-scale operations may cover discrete areas, but larger stay-behind operations envisage reacting to the conquest of entire countries.\n\nStay-behind operations of significant size existed during World War II. The United Kingdom put in place the Auxiliary Units. Partisans in Axis-occupied Soviet territory in the early 1940s operated with a stay-behind element.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) sponsored stay-behind networks in many European countries, intending to activate them in the event of that country being taken over by the Warsaw Pact or if a communist party came to power in a democratic election. According to Martin Packard they were \"financed, armed, and trained in covert resistance activities, including assassination, political provocation and disinformation.\"\n\nMany hidden weapons caches were found in Italy, Austria, Germany, the Netherlands and other countries, at the disposition of these \"secret armies\". The most famous of these NATO operations was Operation Gladio, acknowledged by Italian Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti on October 24, 1990.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Territorial Army regiments of SAS and Honourable Artillery Company provided such stay-behind parties in the UK's sector of West Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37705926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37705926", "title": "Sultani Makenga", "text": "Sultani Makenga\n\nSultani Makenga (born 25 December 1973 in Rutshuru, Democratic Republic of Congo) is the military chief of March 23 Movement, a rebel military group based in eastern areas of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Sanctions have been ordered against him by the United Nations Security Council in November 2012. He has denied accusations that the M23 rebellion is backed by Rwanda. His faction of the M23 have clashed with those loyal to its political leader, Jean-Marie Runiga Lugerero. In May 2013, the M23 rebels clashed with FARDC (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo) and there were rumors that Makenga got badly wounded. Other rumors are that Makenga died, being the reason for his not showing up in public.\n\nOn November 7, 2013, after the M23 was defeated by the FARDC backed by the UN FIB (Force Intervention Brigade), Makenga surrendered with hundreds of M23 fighters in Mgahinga National Park, Uganda. He and his troops are held in a secret location.\n\n"}
{"id": "1793185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793185", "title": "Supushpachandra", "text": "Supushpachandra\n\nSupushpachandra (Sanskrit: \"Supuṣpacandra\") is the name of a bodhisattva mentioned by Shantideva in the \"Bodhisattvacaryāvatāra\". He was ordered by royal law to abstain from teaching Buddhism, but ignored the statute and was executed by King Shuradatta. An account of his tale can be found in the \"Samadhiraja Sutra\".\n"}
{"id": "1726917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1726917", "title": "Theophilus of Adana", "text": "Theophilus of Adana\n\nSaint Theophilus the Penitent or Theophilus of Adana (died 538 AD) was a cleric in the sixth century Church who is said to have made a deal with the Devil to gain an ecclesiastical position. His story is significant as it is the oldest story of a pact with the devil and was an inspiration for the Faust legend. His feast day is February 4.\n\nEutychianus of Adana, who claimed to be an eyewitness of the events, is the first to record Theophilus's story. Although Theophilus is considered to be an historical personage, the tale associated with him is of an apocryphal nature.\n\nTheophilus was the archdeacon of Adana, Cilicia, which is part of modern Turkey. He was unanimously elected to be a bishop, and when out of humility he turned the position down, another man was elected in his stead. When the new bishop unjustly deprived Theophilus of his position as archdeacon, Theophilus regretted his previous stance and sought out a necromancer to help him contact Satan. In exchange for his aid, Satan demanded that Theophilus renounce Christ and the Virgin Mary in a contract signed with his own blood. Theophilus complied, and the devil gave him the position as bishop.\n\nLater, fearful for his soul, Theophilus repented and prayed to the Virgin for forgiveness. After forty days of fasting, the Virgin appeared to him and verbally chastised him. Theophilus begged forgiveness and Mary promised to intercede with God. He then fasted a further thirty days, after which Mary appeared to him again, granted him absolution. However, Satan was unwilling to relinquish his hold over Theophilus, and three days later, Theophilus awoke to find the damning contract on his chest. He then took the contract to the legitimate bishop and confessed all that he had done. The bishop burned the document, and Theophilus died out of sheer joy to be free from the burden of his contract.\n\nDifferent versions of Theophilus's tale introduce various details, including:\n\nTheophilus's story played a role in establishing the importance of the intercession of the Virgin Mary, in addition to providing a basis for later tales involving the conjuration of devils.\n\nThe Virgin Mary increased in her theological importance throughout the 11th century. The story was used to illustrate the power and necessity of her intercession by Peter Damian, Bernard of Clairvaux, Anthony of Padua, Bonaventure and much later on by Alphonsus Liguori. The story of Theophilus formed the basis of a thirteenth-century miracle play by the trouvère Rutebeuf, \"Le Miracle de Théophile\", one of the earliest pieces of French theatre extant.\n\nThe story of Saint Theophilus is an important example in the development of the theology of witchcraft. As seen in the tale, the summoning of devils was not originally considered to be a damning sin, Theophilus's troubles come from the fact that he has sold his soul, not that he treated with the devil. This changed during the late 13th century and into the 14th century as Inquisitors such as Bernard Gui and Nicolau Aymerich sought to expand the power of the Inquisition, whose mandate was the suppression of heresy, by defining sorcery as a form of heresy. Accordingly, Theophilus would have been branded a heretic for his association with the devil.\nThe legend of Theophilus first appears in art in the 11th century in an historiated initial, which depicts the Virgin (who is seated between two angels) with Theophilus at her feet. The earliest intact narrative cycle is at the abbey church of Sainte-Marie at Souillac, France. This sculpture depicts four scenes of the legend: the signing of the bond, the oath of loyalty to the devil, Theophilus's repentance, and the return of the bond by the Virgin.\n\nThe legend was the most popular in art in the 13th century; it occurred most frequently in illuminated manuscripts and stained glass. In both illuminated manuscripts and stained glass that depict this legend there are usually four scenes that are shown: the sealing of the bond between Theophilus and the devil, Theophilus repenting, the Virgin recovering the bond, and the Virgin returning the bond to Theophilus. This legend is the only non-biblical Marian story consistently depicted in sculpture and glass in French cathedrals during this time.\n\n\nThe National Library of the Netherlands has a collection of images pertaining to Saint Theophilus.\n"}
{"id": "38839826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38839826", "title": "Tim Sharp", "text": "Tim Sharp\n\nTimothy William Sharp (born 9 May 1988) is an Australian artist who has been diagnosed with autism and is most famous for his creation of the colourful super hero Laser Beak Man. \nIn 2010, Sharp's work garnered international attention when Laser Beak Man was turned into an eight episode animated television series screening in Australia on ABC3 TV and it was then sold to Cartoon Network Australia, New Zealand and Asia – a world first for a young man with autism to achieve.\n\nSharp was born in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia in 1988. Following concerns about his lack of language development – he only used one or two words occasionally and exhibited some unusual behaviours and was constantly upset – he was diagnosed with autism at the age of three. The specialist's opinion was that the difficulties were so extensive that Tim would never learn anything and that the best thing that could be done would be to put him away and forget about him. \n\nHis mother introduced drawing as a means of communicating with her son. After some time of watching his mother draw stick figures to explain a situation Sharp picked up a pencil at age four and began drawing. His mother remembers that his very first drawing displayed his quirky individual style.\n\nQuickly, Sharp began to develop speech and went to using 10 words within a month, increasing to 100 words three months later, from which point his speech continued to develop.\n\nFollowing a lifelong passion and interest in superheroes, at age 11 Sharp created his own superhero from his imagination called Laser Beak Man.\nAt age 16, in 2004, Sharp was the only Australian selected by jury for the world's largest arts festival for people with disabilities, VSA (Very Special Arts) that was founded by Jean Kennedy Smith, sister of President John F. Kennedy. Sharp travelled to Washington, D.C. for the festival and carried the Australian flag into the opening ceremony at the John F Kennedy performing arts centre. The ABC’s Australian Story, made a documentary about Sharp's trip to Washington DC which screened in September 2005.\n\nSharp is most famous for his bold and colourful artworks completed in crayon that all feature his superhero Laser Beak Man. Many of them are interpretations of pop culture icons or current topics of interest. Others are representations of Sharp's literal understanding of language, a common trait of autism. Most of them reflect Sharp's unique sense of humour and his often irreverent opinion of people and situations.\n\nSharp's art is in demand from collectors from around the world. Preferring to exhibit in his home country of Australia, his exhibitions are sellout successes, attracting the attention of many prominent Australians and art collectors from both Australia and around the world.\n\nThe National Museum of Australia in Canberra holds an exhibition of Sharp's story and his art in its Eternity gallery. His art has been exhibited in the Sydney Opera House.\n\nIn 2010 during an exhibition of his art at the Brisbane Powerhouse, Sharp met visitors to the exhibition Sheldon Liebermann and his animator Igor Coric from BigfishTV in Brisbane who suggested animating the art and produced the series for the Australian Broadcasting Commission.\n\nIn 2012, a film about Sharp produced by Arts Queensland was screened at the Metropolitan Museum of Art New York City as part of the Sprout Film Festival. Also, in 2012, The Ghost Ballerinas, a rock band from Nashville, Tennessee, asked Sharp to create the artwork for their album \"Play Me on the Radio\". Together Sharp and the band members wrote the song \"Laser Beak Man\" which was included on the album and made available on iTunes. The band members were so inspired by Sharp, they wanted to help others with autism and raise autism awareness so they put on a music festival in Tennessee called the I Am What I Am music festival. Sharp travelled to Tennessee for the festival.\n\nSharp's 2014 TEDx Sydney talk received a standing ovation in the Concert Hall of the Sydney Opera House. \n\nThe best selling memoir of Sharp's life A Double Shot of Happiness was published in 2015.\n\nA Theater production of Laser Beak Man is currently in development in conjunction with Dead Puppet Society and the New Victory Theatre at 42nd Street Studios in New York City. \n\n"}
{"id": "13250889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13250889", "title": "Urs Hans von Aesch", "text": "Urs Hans von Aesch\n\nUrs Hans von Aesch was a Swiss citizen suspected of the 2007 abduction and murder of five-year-old Ylenia Lenhard in Appenzell, Switzerland.\n\nVon Aesch apparently committed suicide by shooting himself in the head on July 31, 2007, a few hours after Lenhard disappeared, and shortly after shooting a 46-year-old man. Von Aesch's body was found the following day. A backpack with Lenhard's clothes inside and her cycling helmet were found near von Aesch's body and was found to carry his DNA. Traces of Lenhard's DNA were also found in a white van owned by von Aesch, containing a mattress that he had been using to sleep on.\n\nWitnesses have said a man matching von Aesch's description had been seen outside the public bath in Appenzell for at least 10 days.\n\nSwiss police announced on September 15, 2007 that a body had been discovered in the woods between the villages of Oberbüren and Niederwil considered almost certain to be Lenhard's. On September 16 2007 the Swiss police confirmed that the found body was in fact the remains of Lenhard. The man who found the corpse on his own has received a reward of approximately $20,000. The sum was gathered by authorities and relatives to keep the search going.\n\nThe finder stated: \"If the wild animals hadn't dug her up from the 1–2 foot deep hole where she was buried, probably no one would have ever found her.\" Wild animals had torn parts of the body, especially the upper torso, apart. This forced forensics to identify the body with a DNA match. Police think it is very probable that she was the victim of a rape-murder crime. Although on September 19, 2007, the police said, they didn't find any evidence that she was raped before or after she was murdered. The cause of her death was toluol poisoning.\n\nVon Aesch had a criminal record and was sentenced to 15 months in jail in 1961 after trying to extort ten thousand Swiss francs from a businessman in Zurich by threatening to kidnap his young son. He sent him a letter saying \"...how terrible must it be, to live through the day not knowing if your dear Geni will return from day care...\" (translated).\nIn 1990 he married and moved to Benimantell, a village 15 km from Benidorm in Spain. Police in St. Gallen have also re-opened enquiries into the disappearances of five other girls who disappeared in the area before von Aesch moved to Spain.\n\nVon Aesch was also briefly a suspect in the disappearance of Madeleine McCann. He was thought to be close to Praia da Luz when Madeleine McCann disappeared. A white van with Spanish number plates matching the description of von Aesch's was seen parked for several days in front of the McCann's apartment. The van was not seen again after Madeleine disappeared.\n\nOn the 7 May 2013 it was reported that Scotland Yard officers, as part of their ongoing review, had travelled to St Gallen to investigate possible links between the two crimes. Hanspeter Krüsi, spokesman for the Swiss police, stated, that after the investigation no links could be established between the two cases, and this is what was communicated to Scotland Yard.\n\n"}
{"id": "578913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578913", "title": "Vasily Degtyaryov", "text": "Vasily Degtyaryov\n\nVasily Alekseyevich Degtyaryov (; January 2, 1880, Tula – January 16, 1949, Moscow) was a Russian engineer who specialised in weapons design.\n\nDegtyaryov was the Major General of the Engineering and Artillery Service, Doctor of Technical Sciences (1940), and Hero of Socialist Labor (1940; he received the second such award in its history just two weeks after Joseph Stalin himself). He became a CPSU member in 1941. \n\nVasily Degtyaryov headed the first Soviet firearms design bureau. He created several types of machine guns, submachine guns and anti-tank guns.\n\nVasily Degtyaryov was awarded the USSR's State Stalin Prize in 1941, 1942, 1944, and 1949 (posthumously). He was also awarded three Orders of Lenin, four other orders and different medals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42146317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42146317", "title": "Ziyar ibn Shahrakuya", "text": "Ziyar ibn Shahrakuya\n\nZiyar ibn Shahrakuya (; also spelled Shahrakawayh), was a high-ranking Gilaki military officer who served the Buyids.\n\nZiyar was the son of Shahrakawayh, the son of Harusindan, the maternal uncle of the Ziyarid ruler Mardavij. Ziyar had a cousin, who married the Buyid ruler Adud al-Dawla, and bore him one son named Abu Kalijar Marzuban. During that period, Ziyar, along with a Daylamite officer named Fuladh ibn Manadhar, dominated the Buyid court of Baghdad. \n\nAfter the death of Adud al-Dawla in 983, the Buyid Empire was thrown into civil war; the Empire was disputed between his two sons Abu Kalijar Marzuban (who took the name Samsam al-Dawla) and Sharaf al-Dawla. The Turkic soldiers of Iraq shortly betrayed Samsam al-Dawla, and went towards to the court of Sharaf al-Dawla. However, Ziyar managed to make most of them change their mind and stay loyal to Samsam al-Dawla. In 987, Sharaf al-Dawla marched towards Baghdad and deposed Samsam al-Dawla. He then imprisoned Fuladh and had Ziyar executed.\n\n"}
