{"id": "3569552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3569552", "title": "383 Madison Avenue", "text": "383 Madison Avenue\n\n383 Madison Avenue is an office building owned and occupied by JP Morgan Chase in New York City on a full block bound by Madison Avenue and Vanderbilt Avenue between East 46th and 47th Streets. Formerly known as the Bear Stearns Building, it housed the world headquarters of the now-defunct Bear Stearns from the building's completion until Bear's collapse and sale to JPMorgan Chase in 2008. The building now houses the New York offices for J.P. Morgan's investment banking division, which formerly occupied 277 Park Avenue. Both 383 Madison and 277 Park are adjacent to JPMorgan Chase's world headquarters at 270 Park Avenue. The building changed hands in 2008 during JP Morgan's takeover of Bear Stearns. On their second-quarter 2008 conference call, JP Morgan estimated the building's value at $1.1 to $1.4 billion.\n\nA night time photograph of the building taken at a steep angle from its base appears on the cover of William D. Cohan's book, \"House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street\" (2009).\n\nDesigned by David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP, it is 755 ft (230 m) tall with 47 floors. Hines Interests managed the development process for Bear Stearns. It was completed in 2001 and opened in 2002, at which time it was, by some reports, the 88th tallest building in the world. The building has approximately 110,000 rentable square meters (1,200,000 sq ft).\n\nThe building has an octagonal tower that rises out of a rectangular base to a 20 m (70 ft) crown made of glass which is illuminated at night.\n\nThe building's visually decorative design differs from the conventional functionalist style of neighboring office buildings, and hence has proven unpopular with some critics. \"New York\" said, \"This is a building you wouldn't want to get anywhere near at a cocktail party. Dressed nearly head to toe in dour granite, and geometrically proper, it's stiff to the point of pass-out boredom. Out of character with SOM's (Skidmore, Owings & Merrill's) current work, the design recalls the firm's unfortunate postmodern interlude a decade ago.\"\n\nA 72-story tower proposed by G Ware Travelstead for the site during the 1980s was never built. The building (also being referred as Travelstead Tower) was designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4098304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4098304", "title": "3rd Street, Los Angeles", "text": "3rd Street, Los Angeles\n\n3rd Street in Los Angeles is a major east–west thoroughfare. The west end is in downtown Beverly Hills by Santa Monica Boulevard, and the east is at Alameda Street in downtown Los Angeles, where it shares a one-way couplet with 4th Street. East of Alameda it becomes 4th Street, where it heads to East Los Angeles, where it turns back into 3rd Street upon crossing Indiana Street. 3rd Street eventually becomes Pomona Boulevard in Monterey Park, where it then turns into Potrero Grande Drive and finally turns into Rush Street in Rosemead and ends in El Monte.\n\n3rd Street passes along the south side of The Grove and \"The Original\" Farmers Market at Fairfax Avenue, near the headquarters of The Writers Guild of America, West. There are also many other restaurants, boutiques, and antique stores on this specific strip of 3rd Street, which is less upscale and more relaxed than nearby Robertson Boulevard and Melrose Avenue.\n\n3rd Street is parallel to two other major thoroughfares, Wilshire Boulevard to the south and Beverly Boulevard to the north. It is four lanes wide east of Doheny Drive, and it passes through the same communities as Wilshire Boulevard.\n\nFrom east to west:\n\n\nThe Metro Gold Line runs on 3rd Street between Indiana Street and Atlantic Boulevard.\n\n"}
{"id": "5542330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5542330", "title": "Aleksandr Konovalov (politician, born 1875)", "text": "Aleksandr Konovalov (politician, born 1875)\n\nAleksandr Ivanovich Konovalov () (17 September 1875, Moscow – 28 January 1949, Paris, France; Sainte-Geneviève-des-Bois Cemetery) was a Russian Kadet politician and entrepreneur. One of Russia's biggest textile manufacturers, he became a leader of the liberal, business-oriented Progressist Party and was a member of the Progressive Bloc in the Fourth Duma. \n\nDuring World War I he was vice president of Alexander Guchkov's Military-Industrial Committee, and after the February Revolution he became Minister of Trade and Industry in the Provisional Government. He was an active member of the irregular freemasonic lodge, the Grand Orient of Russia’s Peoples. After the October Revolution he emigrated to France, where he was a leader of leftist Russian émigrés; at the start of World War II he moved to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "1131493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1131493", "title": "Alfred Beit", "text": "Alfred Beit\n\nAlfred Beit (15 February 1853 – 16 July 1906) was a British gold and diamond magnate in South Africa, and a major donor and profiteer of infrastructure development on the African continent. He also donated much money to university education and research in several countries, and was the \"silent partner\" who structured the capital flight from post-Boer War South Africa to Rhodesia, and the Rhodes Scholarship, named after his employee, Cecil Rhodes.\n\nBorn and brought up in Hamburg, Germany, he was the eldest son and second of six children of an affluent Jewish-German citizen of Hamburg. His younger siblings included Otto Beit. Alfred Beit was an unpromising scholar and was apprenticed to Jules Porgès & Cie, the Amsterdam diamond firm where he developed a talent for examining stones.\n\nBeit made his first fortune in property speculation. Responding to a demand for business premises, he bought a piece of land and built twelve corrugated iron sheds for offices and rented eleven out monthly and kept one for himself. Twelve years later he sold the land for a considerable profit.\n\nBeit was sent to Kimberley, South Africa in 1875 by his firm to buy diamonds—following the diamond strike at Kimberley. He became a business friend of Cecil Rhodes through his role in the Kimberley Central Company. Beit was captivated by Rhodes' talk of 'big schemes'. Together, they proceeded to buy out digging ventures and to eliminate opposition such as Barney Barnato. He rapidly became one of a group of financiers who gained control of the diamond-mining claims in the Central, Dutoitspan, and De Beers mines. Rhodes was the active politician and Beit provided a lot of the planning and financial backing.\n\nBeit's diamond interests were mainly concentrated on Kimberley mine. He focused his main attention on the Kimberley Central Company aiming to expand its interests. He had a major role in the rise of Kimberley Central Company.\n\nIn 1886 Beit extended his interests to the newly discovered goldfields of the Witwatersrand and met with great success. In his business ventures there he made use of financiers Hermann Eckstein and Sir Joseph Robinson. He founded the Robertson Syndicate and the firm of Wernher, Beit & Co. He imported mining engineers from the USA and was among the first to adopt deep-level mining. Rhodes purportedly was granted concessions by Lobengula, as a result of which Beit founded the British South Africa Company in 1888.\n\nBeit became life-governor of De Beers and also a director of numerous other companies such as Rand Mines, Rhodesia Railways and the Beira Railway Company.\n\nIn 1888 Beit moved to London when he felt he was better able to manage his financial empire and support Rhodes in his Southern African ambitions. Beit moved into Tewin Water, Tewin, near Welwyn, a large Regency house with Victorian additions and 7,000 acres (28 km²), and a few miles away Julius Wernher bought Luton Hoo, with 5,218 acres (21.1 km²). In the 1890s, he had a mansion built in Park Lane – Aldford House.\n\nInspired by Rhodes' imperialist vision, he took part in the planning and financing of the unsuccessful Jameson Raid of late 1895 which was intended to trigger a coup in the South African Republic in the Transvaal. As a result of this debacle, Rhodes resigned as Prime Minister, and both he and Beit were found guilty by the House of Commons inquiry. Beit was obliged to resign as director of the Charter Company, but was elected vice-president of the British South Africa Company a few years later. With the death of Rhodes in 1902, Beit, as one of the trustees, helped control the enormous estate, currently being helped by the Oppenheimer family of De Beers and Anglo-American.\n\nBeit never married and had no children. He died at Tewin Water on 16 July 1906 after seeing a rapid deterioration in his health. He left an estate of £8,049,886 (equivalent to £ billion in ).\n\nDuring his lifetime, Beit made generous donations for scientific work and education. In 1905 he founded a chair of colonial history at the University of Oxford, which is now the \"Beit Professor of History of the British Commonwealth\". In 1906 he made the donation of two million mark to the stock capital of the \"Hamburgische Wissenschaftliche Stiftung\", a charity dedicated to spend its interest for the benefit of a precursor of the University of Hamburg.\n\nIn his will he set up the Beit Trust through which he bequeathed large sums of money (£1,200,000) for infrastructure development in the former Northern and Southern Rhodesia, later modified to university education and research in Zimbabwe, Zambia and Malawi.\n\nSignificant infrastructure projects financed by the Trust include the Birchenough Bridge in the former Southern Rhodesia, named after Sir Henry Birchenough, chairman of the Beit Trust from 1931 until 1937 and whose ashes are buried beneath the structure of the bridge. Ralph Freeman, the bridge's designer, was also the structural designer on the Sydney Harbour Bridge and consequently the two bridges bear a close resemblance, although Birchenough is only two-thirds as long as the Australian bridge. It was built by Dorman Long and completed in 1935. At a length of 1,080 feet (329 m) it was the third longest single-arch suspension bridge in the world at the time.\n\nIn recognition of his bequests the Royal School of Mines, a faculty of Imperial College London, erected a large memorial to Beit flanking the entrance to its building. The Imperial College residential halls on Prince Consort Road was named Beit Hall after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "5930266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5930266", "title": "American Chamber of Commerce in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "American Chamber of Commerce in Kyrgyzstan\n\nThe American Chamber of Commerce in Kyrgyzstan was founded in cooperation with the US State Department in 2005 to promote and support the development of international and especially American business in Kyrgyzstan.\n\nIt is the belief of the American Chamber of Commerce that the economic interests of the international and American business community and those of the people of Kyrgyzstan are one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37845199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37845199", "title": "App Empire: Make Money, Have a Life, and Let Technology Work for You", "text": "App Empire: Make Money, Have a Life, and Let Technology Work for You\n\nApp Empire: Make Money, Have a Life, and Let Technology Work for You is a book by Chad Mureta. It chronicles Mureta's transformation from real estate agent to \"appreneur\" and provides a non-technical guide to starting an mobile app business.\n\nAfter surviving a car accident that almost ended his life, Mureta borrowed $1,800 from his stepfather to start an app business from his hospital bed. Although he had no previous experience in the app or technology fields, he used the money to create his first app, \"Fingerprint Security-Pro,\" which mimics fingerprint-scanning technology. Fingerprint Security-Pro became a bestseller in the App Store, netting more than $50,000. Mureta would go on to found three app companies, developing 46 apps that have been downloaded 35 million times.\n\n\"App Empire\" is outlined as a how-to guide for those interested in \"cash[ing] in on the App gold rush.\" The book opens with Mureta's appreneur lifestyle, including scuba diving in Fiji and learning martial arts in Buenos Aires, while managing his app business from his iPhone. The book goes onto teach lessons like how to emulate and innovate on existing apps in the iOS App Store, how to hire great programmers and how to generate effective marketing into the app. Mureta also developed the seven pillars of an app business, which he identifies as:\n\n\"App Empire\" was featured in The Huffington Post, TechCrunch, \"The Houston Chronicle\", and Mixergy with \"The Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" describing the book as \"a wonderful book that explains how to make lots of money formulating, building and promoting popular apps.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40522011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40522011", "title": "B Corporation (certification)", "text": "B Corporation (certification)\n\nB Corporation certification (also known as B Lab certification or B Corp certification) is a private certification issued to for-profit companies by B Lab, a global nonprofit organization with offices in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and a partnership in Latin America with Sistema B. To be granted and to preserve certification, companies must receive a minimum score on an online assessment for \"social and environmental performance\", satisfy the requirement that the company integrate B Lab commitments to stakeholders into company governing documents, and pay an annual fee ranging from $500 to $50,000.\n\nAs of August 2018, there are over 2,600 certified B Corporations across 150 industries in 60 countries.\n\nThe B Lab certification is a third party standard requiring companies to meet social sustainability and environmental performance standards, meet accountability standards, and to be transparent to the public according to the score they receive on the assessment. B Lab certification applies to the whole company across all product lines and issue areas. For-profits of all legal business structures are eligible for certification.\n\n\n\n\nTo obtain a B Corporation certification, a company first completes an online assessment. Companies that earn a minimum score of 80 out of 200 points undergo an assessment review process, essentially a conference call verifying the claims made in their assessment. Companies are required to provide supporting documentation before they are certified.\n\nThe assessment covers the company’s entire operation and measures the positive impact of the company in areas of governance, workers, community, the environment, as well as the product or service the company provides. Socially and environmentally-focused business model points ultimately are accrued in their relevant impact area (governance, workers, community or environment). Depending on a company's industry, geographic location, and number of employees, the online assessment adjusts the weightings of the question categories to increase its relevancy. For instance, companies with more employees will have a heavier weighting in the workers category, and companies in manufacturing will have a heavier weighting in the environment category.\n\nTo maintain credibility, the B Corporation certification standard operates under principles that are independent, comprehensive, comparable, dynamic, and transparent. B Lab has an established standards advisory council that can independently make decisions with or without the support of B Lab. As of May 2014, 28 of 30 members were listed by their business affiliation. The council recommends improvements to the B Corp assessment on a biennial basis. There is a 30-day public consultation period before releasing a new version of the B Corporation assessment.\n\nCurrently the B Corp assessment is its fifth version, with the sixth version scheduled to be released in January 2018.\n\nCertification also requires companies to integrate their stakeholder commitments into the company governing documents. In the United States, the avenue for corporations making the legal amendment to certify will depend on the state they are incorporated in. Some states known as \"constituency\" states will allow for this change in the articles of incorporation, other states, known as \"non-constituency states\", will not; and many states now have the option of adopting the benefit corporation legal structure, which also meets B Lab's requirements for B Corp certification. Beyond the corporate model, other for-profit business entities make an amendment of the company by-laws or governing documents. These include:\n\nHowever, B Lab certification allows the company bylaws to remain secret.\n\nIn September 2018, there were over 2,000 certified B Corporations across 130 industries in 50 countries, including Canada (78 companies), Australia, South Africa, and Afghanistan. The most active community outside of the United States is Sistema B. Since 2012, Sistema B has been the adaptation of the B Corps movement in Latin America, including in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Uruguay and Colombia. This non-profit adapts proprietary certifications and evaluation metrics and modifies both to the context of each country. B Lab also assists Sistema B in incorporating a benefit corporation distinction into local legal systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9848049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9848049", "title": "Beirut Stock Exchange", "text": "Beirut Stock Exchange\n\nThe Beirut Stock Exchange (or BSE) is the principal stock exchange of Lebanon. Located in Beirut, it is a public institution run by a committee including a Chairman, a Vice-Chairman and eight members appointed via a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, in accordance with a proposal by the Minister of Finance. All BSE members are Lebanese Joint stock companies (SAL) with a capital above 500,000 Lebanese Pounds and registered at the secretariat of the Commercial Register in. Members include holding companies and offshore companies. The BSE authorizes Brokerage firms the operation and trade in securities listed on the BSE according to the Bourse trading system and also lists the issuing companies (called \"Listed companies\") that have any of their stocks or other financial instruments listed.\n\nBeirut Stock Exchange, the second oldest market in the region, was established in 1920 by a decree of the French commissioner. Trading at that time was concentrated on gold and currency transactions, however in the 1930s there was an inflow of French, Syrian and local Lebanese investment which made it possible for the BSE to flourish, especially with the establishment of mixed Lebanese-French joint stock companies that were quoted simultaneously on the Paris and Beirut Stock Exchanges. The activity in the 1950s and 1960s increased with the enlisting of various banking, industrial and services companies along with an amount of 50 listed bonds.\n\nDuring the Lebanese Civil War trading activity halted in 1983. After 11 years a new administrating committee (in collaboration with the \"Bourse de Paris\") re-launched the BSE with a new internal bylaw, re-structured and streamlined mechanisms and trading systems. A new automated brokers system was introduced, based on the fixing price instead of the traditional OTC voice brokers. On November 22, 1996, the BSE officially re-launched the trading activity in its hall. The BSE and \"Bourse de Paris\" signed a cooperation agreement in June 1999 and the new European NSC-UNIX–Euronext system was set. In 2000, new forms of securities were listed such as GDR (Global Depository Receipt), investment funds shares, preferred stocks, priority shares and any other tradable derivatives. In late 2006, the BSE launched a new Remote Trading System, allowing the brokers to trade with the securities listed on the BSE \"remotely\" from their own offices.\nI\n\nThe exchange has pre-trading sessions from 09:00am to 09:30am and normal trading sessions from 09:30am to 12.30pm on all days of the week except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays declared by the Exchange in advance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31543000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31543000", "title": "Belyout Bouchentouf", "text": "Belyout Bouchentouf\n\nBelyout Bouchentouf was a businessman and statesman from the Kingdom of Morocco. Born in Casablanca at the turn of the 20th Century, he left a lasting legacy in the capital and the Kingdom.\n\nAs Mayor of Casablanca for over 15 years (during the 1980s and 1990s) he had direct responsibility of the Kingdom's largest city. With a population of over 3 Million people, which represented well over 10% of the country's total population, he wielded considerable influence in the country. As mayor, he led many of the city's largest developments in infrastructure, education, athletics and cultural life.\n\nHe was instrumental in raising Casablanca's international profile, and spearheaded the initiative to make Casablanca Sister Cities with Chicago, Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) and many others. See Casablanca Sister Cities.\n\nBelyout Bouchentouf was also a Member of Parliament in the Kingdom of Morocco.\n\nBelyout Bouchentouf was born in Casablanca. His father Mohammed Bouchentouf was also born in Casablanca and was one of the founding members of the city as we know it today. Place Bouchentouf (Derb Bouchentouf in Arabic), which was founded by Belyout Bouchentouf's father in the 1890s, is a major neighborhood in downtown Casablanca with a population of over 100,000 people today.\n\nBelyout Bouchentouf has 6 children.\n\nIn 1987, Her Highness Princess Lalla Asmaa, daughter of HRH King Hassan II and sister of the current HRH King Mohammed VI, married Belyout Bouchentouf's middle son. The marriage ceremony was attended by many dignitaries including HRH King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and other members of the Royal Families. As a member of the Royal Family of Morocco, he worked very closely with King Hassan II in instituting political and social reforms to improve the quality of life of citizens.\n\nAs the brother-in-law of King Hassan II, Belyout Bouchentouf was a close and trusted advisor on many key aspects of life in the Kingdom as well as affairs in the broader Middle East.\n"}
{"id": "21452846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21452846", "title": "Brewers Exchange", "text": "Brewers Exchange\n\nBrewers Exchange, also known as Murdock Place, is a historic office building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a three-story Renaissance Revival style building designed by Joseph Evans Sperry (1854-1930) and built in 1896. The façade is faced with terra cotta and includes such decorative elements as two-story half-round Ionic pilasters, cartouches, pediments, window surrounds, a garland frieze, and a balustrade at the edges of a flat roof. It was used by the exchange for only a short time.\n\nBrewers Exchange was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "3534483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3534483", "title": "Butler Ames", "text": "Butler Ames\n\nButler Ames (August 22, 1871 – November 6, 1954) was an American politician, engineer, soldier and businessman. He was the son of Adelbert Ames and grandson of Benjamin Franklin Butler, both decorated generals in the Union Army during the American Civil War.\n\nBorn in Lowell, Massachusetts, Ames attended the public schools and Phillips Exeter Academy, in Exeter, New Hampshire, and graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1894. He resigned from the United States Army after appointment as second lieutenant to the Eleventh Regiment, United States Infantry; took a postgraduate course at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was a member of Theta Xi fraternity, and graduated in 1896 as a mechanical and electrical engineer.\n\nAmes engaged in manufacturing; served as a member of the common council of Lowell in 1896; like his father, he re-joined the Army during the Spanish–American War and was commissioned lieutenant and adjutant of the Sixth Regiment, Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry; appointed acting engineer officer of the Second Army Corps under General Graham, in addition to his duties as adjutant. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel in August 1898; served as civil administrator of the Arecibo district of Puerto Rico until November 1898.\n\nAmes became a member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives 1897–1899; elected as a Republican to the Fifty-eighth and to the four succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1903 – March 3, 1913); was not a candidate for renomination in 1912; resumed manufacturing pursuits; president of United States Cartridge Company, and treasurer of Heinze Electrical Co. of Lowell; at time of death was treasurer and a director of Wamesit Power Co. of Lowell, Massachusetts; director of Union Land and Grazing Co., Colorado Springs, Colorado, and vice president and a director of Ames Textile in Lowell.\n\nAmes was completely taken with Villa del Balbianello when he visited Europe for the first time in 1912, and he determined to purchase the Villa. He succeeded in 1919, beautifully restoring the Villa. On a Dictaphone Tape he tells the story (also a short autobiography). The Tape was transcribed, and his greater family published it in book form: \"Butler Ames and the Villa Balbianello, Lake Como, Italy, An American Oral History.\" Essays and introductions by Evelyn Ames, Pauline Ames Plimpton, Ezio Antonini, Sarah and George Plimpton plus period photographs and the illustrated Guest Book 1920 to 1970 was added. The book was edited by Oakes Plimpton and printed by Hobblebush Press, 2009, available through Amazon Books or Oakes Plimpton, 67 Coolidge Road, Arlington, MA 02476.\n\nAmes died in Tewksbury, Massachusetts in 1954, at the age of 83. He is buried, along with his father, grandfather and extended family, in the Hildreth family cemetery, behind the main cemetery on Hildreth Street in Lowell. His heirs sold Villa del Balbianello in 1974 to Guido Monzino.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2123002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123002", "title": "CRISIL", "text": "CRISIL\n\nCRISIL (formerly Credit Rating Information Services of India Limited) is a global analytical company providing ratings, research, and risk and policy advisory services. CRISIL’s majority shareholder is Standard & Poor's, a division of McGraw Hill Financial and provider of financial market intelligence.\n\nAs of December 2013, the company has revenue of , net income of and operating income of .\n\nThe Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley launched CriSidEx , India’s first sentiment index for micro and small enterprises (MSEs) developed jointly by CRISIL and SIDBI.\n\nCriSidEx is a composite index based on a diffusion index of 8 parameters and measures MSE business sentiment on a scale of 0 (extremely negative) to 200 (extremely positive). CriSidEx will have two indices, one for the 'survey quarter' and another for 'next quarter' once a trend emerges after few rounds of the survey, providing independent time series data. The parametric feedback was captured through a survey of 1100 MSEs in November –December.\n"}
{"id": "18621974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18621974", "title": "Cement and its applications", "text": "Cement and its applications\n\nCement and its Applications was founded over a hundred years ago and is a privately owned independent trade magazine dealing with the problems of production and application of cement in Russia, in all the newly independent states on the territory of the former USSR and in other countries of the world. The magazine, which is the only cement specialist Russian-language periodical, works in close co-operation with cement plants and holding companies, equipment manufacturers, producers of concretes, dry construction mixes and other cement products users, as well as with research and design institutes and institutions of higher education, all of those being its major subscribers.\n\nGreat attention is paid to the problems of cement plants development, capital flow and economic issues of Russian and international industry.\n\nThe magazine is distributed all over Russia, CIS countries and abroad. It is published bimonthly with news and analytical materials in English.\n"}
{"id": "31309566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31309566", "title": "Commerce Act 1986", "text": "Commerce Act 1986\n\nThe Commerce Act 1986 is a statute of New Zealand. It prohibits conduct that restricts competition and purchase of shares or assets where that would lessen competition in a market.\n\nAs well as generally governing markets, the Act gives the Commerce Commission particular powers in relation to services provided by electricity lines businesses, gas pipeline businesses and airports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21395468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21395468", "title": "Consumer relationship system", "text": "Consumer relationship system\n\nConsumer relationship systems (CRS) are specialized customer relationship management (CRM) software applications that are used to handle a company's dealings with its customers.\n\nCurrent consumer relationship systems integrate the software with telephone and call recording systems as well as with corporate systems for input and reporting. Customers can provide input from the company's website directly into the CRS. These systems are popular because they can deliver the 'voice of the consumer' that contributes to product quality improvement and that ultimately increases corporate profits.\n\nConsumer relationship systems that provide automated support as well as advanced systems may have artificial intelligence (AI) interfaces that can extract and analyse data collected, or handle basic questions and complaints.\n\nThe first CRS was developed in the 1980s. In 1981 Michael Wilke and Robert Thornton founded Wilke/Thornton, Inc in Columbus, Ohio, to develop new CRS software.\n\n"}
{"id": "3048753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3048753", "title": "Dan Onorato", "text": "Dan Onorato\n\nDaniel Onorato (born February 5, 1961) is an American Democratic politician from the state of Pennsylvania. He served as the Chief Executive of Allegheny County from 2004 to 2012, and in 2010, he was the Democratic nominee for Governor. He lost to State Attorney General Tom Corbett in the general election.\n\nA life-long resident of Allegheny County, he attended Penn State University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in accounting in 1983. He worked several years as a Certified Public Accountant before continuing his education at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law, earning a Juris Doctor in 1989. Onorato and his wife Shelly reside in Pittsburgh's Brighton Heights neighborhood with their children: Kate, Emily, and Danny. In 2012, Onorato began working for Highmark, where he is the vice president of corporate communications and external affairs.\n\nOnorato practiced as a private attorney until he was elected to the Pittsburgh City Council in 1991, when he defeated first district incumbent Bernard Regan in the primary election. He served two terms on the council before being elected Allegheny County Controller in 2000. In 2003, he defeated Jim Roddey for the position of Allegheny County executive. He was named runner up for the 2003 Politician of the Year by the political website PoliticsPA, who noted his youthful energy and his fundraising power.\n\nIn late 2007 Allegheny County received permission from the Pennsylvania General Assembly to pursue increased taxation of poured alcohol and rental cars to subsidize the Port Authority of Allegheny County. Members of the Allegheny County Council and Onorato believed that such a tax was preferable to increasing county property taxes. After the 10% tax on poured alcohol passed, Allegheny County bar and restaurant owners protested the new tax, claiming that it would hurt that business. A lawsuit by the bar and restaurant owners challenging the legality of the drink tax was thrown out by the courts, but they sought a referendum overturning the tax in the November 2008 general election. Onorato subsequently withheld the funds raised by the drink tax from the Port Authority, demanding that the transit agency first restructure its labor costs.\n\nHe announced his endorsement of Senator Hillary Clinton in her 2008 presidential bid on March 14, 2008, saying, \"Hillary Clinton has the experience and the determination to clean up the mess in Washington and deliver results.\"\n\nOnorato won the Democratic nomination in the 2010 election for Governor of Pennsylvania on May 18, 2010. Onorato had more than $4 million for a campaign left over from his re-election bid. He also received media attention when the G-20 Summit was held in Pittsburgh. He defeated State Senator Anthony Williams, Auditor General Jack Wagner, and Montgomery County Commissioner Joe Hoeffel. He was defeated by Republican State Attorney General Tom Corbett in the general election with 45.5% to 54.5% of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "2878172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878172", "title": "Day labor", "text": "Day labor\n\nDay labor (or day labour in Commonwealth spelling) is work done where the worker is hired and paid one day at a time, with no promise that more work will be available in the future. It is a form of contingent work.\n\nDay laborers find work through three common routes.\n\nFirstly, some employment agencies specialize in very short-term contracts for manual labor most often in construction, factories, offices, and manufacturing. These companies usually have offices where workers can arrive and be assigned to a job on the spot, as they are available.\n\nSecondly, a manager looking for additional labor to fill an unexpected change in plans is presented with a problem of finding the needed quantity of labor with the right skills. Imagine the magnitude of the task of looking for workers, on the side of the street or by calling various employment agencies, who can verify that they are journeyman asphalt rakers, typists, programmers, etc. The benefit of representation is applied to both the labor and employer. Labor is given a source of recourse to achieve a safe work environment free of favoritism and arbitrary work assignments. Employers benefit from organized labor training programs, benefit plans, dispute resolution and a labor supply meeting most employers labor demand at most any time or place. The benefit of a labor supply arriving at a specified time and location within less than a day's notice is reduced overhead resources.\n\nThirdly and less formally, workers meet at well-known locations, usually public street corners or commercial parking lots, and wait for building contractors, landscapers, home owners and small business owners, and other potential employers to offer work. Much of this work is in small residential construction or landscaping. These workers earn, on average, $8–$10 an hour. The media and a study by UCLA portrays day laborers as being illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America, who otherwise can't get work due to current employment regulations. Other research has found that day laborers are not typically illegal immigrants, many even being citizens of the US, and that day labor is often a transition to full-time work.\n\nday labor (or labour in commonwealth spelling ) is work done where the worker is hired and paid one day at time , with no promise that more work will be available in the future. it is a form of contingent work.\nInformal day labor is not new to the United States, and day laborers are not always migrant workers in many cases. In his study of day laborers in Atlanta, Terry Easton interviews white and black day laborers in addition to Hispanic workers. Many other metropolitan areas still have non-immigrant day laborers, and many other large and small cities have immigrant day laborers from a variety of countries, including Mongolia, Poland, Russia, Brazil, Central and South America, and countries in Africa. Non-immigrant informal day labor, seen in many cities, does not generate the controversy or calls to police and local government seen when immigrant day laborers gather to wait for work.\n\nUnorganized day labor creates real problems for day laborers: 1 in 3 corner day laborers have experienced theft of wages in the past two months; 1 in 5 experienced a serious worksite injury in the past year. Low wages and poor working conditions, employer abuse, and lack of insurance for work related accidents is common.\n\nNumerous complaints are made about immigrant day laborers. These include loitering, noise, crime and rushing cars of potential employers in parking lots. Cities and counties have tried a variety of solutions with varied success. Some municipalities and communities have supported workers' efforts to organize themselves into democratically run workers' centers, designated areas, and organizations to defend workers' rights in general. Workers' Centers of this kind date back at least 18 years to Los Angeles. Other municipalities have targeted day labor sites for aggressive enforcement of immigration laws.\n\nThough united in their commitment to the rights of immigrant workers, NDLON and the Day Labor Research Institute represent two very different models of day labor center. NDLON represents the \"social service agency model\" and the Institute the \"day laborer designed model.\" These different models of day labor centers may yield markedly different results that reflect the different goals of each model.\n\nProblems when workers' centers are established are also common: day laborers often continue to congregate in large numbers on the streets surrounding the day labor centers, refusing to leave the street and use the center; new problems can be created, including new crowds of homeless and substance abusers loitering near the center after hours, and large numbers of day laborers drawn from other areas to the streets surrounding the centers. Low levels of work at the centers, low wages, and problems with the job distribution system are also common.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26250585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26250585", "title": "Delft Management Society", "text": "Delft Management Society\n\nThe Delft Management Society (DMS) is a student organization independent of any educational institution that acts as a bridge between students and the corporate world. The society is focused on the academic, career and social development of Delft University of Technology students. The society is based in Delft, Netherlands. The society has partners at multiple universities worldwide. \n\nThe society is an interfaculty initiative and provides an international platform for the exchange, foreign and Dutch Delft University of Technology students (15,321 students). DMS provides all students in Delft with the opportunity to manage their own projects or events. This is guided by a board consisting of four students.\n\n"}
{"id": "17014742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17014742", "title": "Desktop outsourcing", "text": "Desktop outsourcing\n\nDesktop outsourcing is the process in which an organization contracts a third party to maintain and manage parts of its IT infrastructure. Contracts vary in depth and can range from Computer hard- and software maintenance to Desktop virtualisation, SaaS-implementations and Helpdesk operation. It is estimated, that 32% of U.S. and Canadian IT organisations make use of desktop outsourcing in 2014. Recent market reports suggest the adoption of BYOD policies to allow the end-user a free choice of devices in their working environment may increase this market share.\n\nJustification for desktop outsourcing could include shifting focus and energy to areas of core competency, reducing staffing costs, and the routine maintenance, upgrades, and repairs associated with managing multitudes of PC systems and servers. (Applegate et al. 2007). Managers may also seek desktop outsourcing as a method of simplifying organisational structures to cut costs associated with them. For smaller companies it might also be more viable financially to outsource their desktop at a set price per machine, rather than creating an entire internal IT department. Recent market growth can also be attributed to the decreasing price of hardware, making replacement more favourable than repairs. Possible risks when desktop outsourcing are ensuring continued support for old a unique systems the company depends on, specifically if any of the systems in question were internally developed. This may cause the contractor to be unable to fulfil their contractual obligations, as in the case of the US Navy outsourcing their IT systems to EDS in 2003.\n\nA 2012 TechNavio market report forecasts that the desktop outsourcing market will grow by 4.65% yearly, between 2012 and 2016. Atos, CSC, HP and IBM are considered the leading desktop outsourcing vendors for that time frame. A Gartner report from 2013, however, considers the desktop outsourcing market to be in decline, with growth only occurring on the Latin American and Asia/Pacific markets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7552346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7552346", "title": "Downtown Detroit", "text": "Downtown Detroit\n\nDowntown Detroit is the central business district and a residential area of the city of Detroit, Michigan, United States. Detroit is the major city in the larger Metro Detroit region. Downtown Detroit is bordered by M-10 (Lodge Freeway) to the west, Interstate 75 (I-75, Fisher Freeway) to the north, I-375 (Chrysler Freeway) to the east, and the Detroit River to the south. The city's main thoroughfare M-1 (Woodward Avenue) links Downtown to Midtown, New Center, and the North End.\n\nDowntown contains much historic architecture and many of the prominent skyscrapers in Detroit, including the Renaissance Center, the Penobscot Building, One Detroit Center, and the Guardian Building. Historic churches, theatres, and commercial buildings anchor the various downtown districts. Downtown has a number of parks including those linked by a promenade along the International Riverfront. Its central square is Campus Martius Park.\n\nIn recent years the downtown area has seen tremendous growth and redevelopment. Since 2000 a number of major construction projects have been completed including the new Compuware Headquarters at Campus Martius Park and two new stadiums: Comerica Park and Ford Field. General Motors moved their headquarters into the Renaissance Center, and the Detroit Lions have relocated from Pontiac to Downtown Detroit. High-profile events like the 2005 MLB All-Star Game, Super Bowl XL, and the 2006 and 2012 World Series have taken place in downtown, generating income for local businesses and spurring more growth. As a result, new residents are moving into Detroit in the assortment of new lofts that are opening. An example of these trends is the Westin Book-Cadillac Hotel. In 2006, the Cleveland-based Ferchill Group began the $180 million redevelopment of the historic Book Cadlliac Hotel at the corner of Washington Blvd. and Michigan Avenue. The project, which has been hailed by preservationists houses a 455-room Westin Hotel, 67 high-end condominiums, and two to three restaurants, and some miscellaneous retail serving hotel and conference center guests. DTE Energy Headquarters features an urban oasis of parks, walkways, and a reflecting pool.\n\nIn 2007, Downtown Detroit was named among the best big city neighborhoods in which to retire by CNN Money Magazine editors. Downtown contains popular destinations including, the International Riverfront, the MGM Grand Detroit, Greektown Casino Hotel, and many sites listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nDowntown Detroit hosts over 92,000 workers which make up about one-fifth of the city's total employment base; in addition, it is home to about 5,300 residents. Downtown offers a number of residential high rises, including Riverfront Towers, The Albert, and Town Residences.\n\nThe Renaissance Center contains the Detroit Marriott hotel, General Motors headquarters, as well as many shops and restaurants. Compuware has its headquarters in the Compuware World Headquarters building by Campus Martius Park in Downtown Detroit. Compuware moved its headquarters and 4,000 employees to Downtown Detroit in 2003. Little Caesars and Olympia Entertainment have their headquarters in the Fox Theatre. Ernst & Young has offices in One Kennedy Square on Campus Martius Park. Pricewaterhouse Coopers has offices in a building across from Ford Field. Chrysler maintains executive offices at Chrysler House in the city's Financial District. In 2011, Quicken Loans moved its headquarters and 4,000 employees to downtown. Comerica Bank and Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan are also major employers downtown.\n\nAs of the 2010 Census, there were 5,287 people residing in the district. The population density was 3,671.5 people per square mile (1,417.6/km²). There were 4,572 housing units. The census reported the district residents as 63.6% Black, 28.2% White, 4.0% Asian, 0.5% Native American, 0.6% other races, 3.0% two or more races, and 3.3% Hispanic.\n\nAs recently as 2011 the population of full-time residents in Downtown Detroit was relatively low. However, its population grew by an estimated 15 percent between 2012 and 2016 as it experienced a construction boom.\n\nThe city of Detroit offices are located in the Coleman Young Municipal Building. The Guardian Building serves as headquarters for Wayne County. Detroit Fire Department has its headquarters in Downtown Detroit. The Detroit Police Department has its headquarters in Downtown Detroit. The Central District patrol division of the police department serves Downtown Detroit.\n\nFederal offices are in the Patrick V. McNamara Federal Building. They include an FBI field office.\n\nThe Detroit Greyhound Lines station is directly west of Downtown along the John C. Lodge Freeway. The Detroit Department of Transportation system provides mass-transit by bus. The Rosa Parks Transit Center, completed in 2009, serves as the main hub for the bus systems downtown. It is adjacent to two stops on the Detroit People Mover. The People Mover, a 2.94-mile (4.7 km) automated rail rapid transit system, operates on a single-track, one-way loop through the downtown area. Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation has its headquarters in the Buhl Building in Downtown Detroit.\n\nIn late July 2014, construction began on the M-1 Rail Line which, upon completion planned for mid 2017, will run 3.3 miles on Woodward Avenue from Congress Street in Downtown Detroit to the Grand Boulevard station in New Center.\n\nCompanies with headquarters in Downtown Detroit include Compuware, Dickinson Wright, General Motors, Little Caesars, Campbell-Ewald, Miller Canfield, and Quicken Loans.\n\nOctober 28, 2014, Fifth Third Bank announced plans to move its Michigan regional headquarters from Southfield to downtown Detroit in what will be named the \"Fifth Third Bank Building at One Woodward\". The bank will occupy about of the structure and has also pledged to invest $85 million in the city of Detroit. The office had 150 employees.\n\nPreviously Comerica Bank had its headquarters in Downtown Detroit. On March 6, 2007, the company announced its decision to relocate its corporate headquarters to Dallas. The company executives began moving to Dallas in November 2007. At one time Real Times Media, the owner of black newspapers in the United States, had its headquarters in the Globe Tobacco Building, and later the Buhl Building.\n\nThe Detroit Media Partnership, housing both \"The Detroit News\" and the \"Detroit Free Press\", has its headquarters in Downtown Detroit.\n\nThe \"Metro Times\" was previously headquartered in the Detroit Cornice and Slate Company Building in Downtown.\n\nDowntown Detroit has seen a major growth in entertainment in the past decade. Campus Martius Park is open year-round, with ice skating in the winter with a huge Christmas tree display, to a large fountain and many concerts in the summer. Downtown Detroit has also seen major growth in retail, such as Michigan-based Moosejaw outdoor clothing. In December 2012, the largest Buffalo Wild Wings in the country opened in the district, and a new mixed-use development by CEO Dan Gilbert, businessman, and developer, \"The Z\", due to its Z-like shape, with 1,300 parking spaces, artwork, LED lighting, and 33,000-square-feet of street level retail space. The Z is full of murals and other artwork from 27 international artists, and the floors are color-coded. The Z opened on January 30, 2014. On December 10, 2014, Punch Bowl Social opened a new 24,000-square-foot bi-level eatery and entertainment complex in The Z structure.\n\nThe University of Detroit Mercy School of Law is located downtown across from the Renaissance Center. Wayne County Community College District (WCCCD) has its headquarters in Downtown Detroit. The Downtown Campus of the district is located adjacent to Downtown Detroit and adjacent to the WCCCD headquarters. Wayne State University is located in Midtown Detroit. The Corktown Campus, near downtown at 2700 Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, houses the University of Detroit Mercy School of Dentistry and Dental Clinic. The main campus of the University of Detroit Mercy is located uptown.\n\nThe Detroit College of Law was in Downtown Detroit until 1997. It moved to East Lansing, Michigan in 1997 and is now known as the Michigan State University College of Law.\n\nThe Detroit Public Schools, charter schools, and private schools serve city residents. Downtown residents enrolled in the public school system are zoned for Martin Luther King High School. Some downtown residents are zoned for Burton K-8 for elementary school, while others are zoned to Chrysler Elementary School. Burton K-8 and Bunche K-8 serve portions of Downtown for Middle School.\n\nPreviously Dewey K-8 served portions of Downtown Detroit for elementary school. Previously Miller Middle School, and Duffield Middle School served portions of Downtown Detroit. Previously Murray-Wright High School served Downtown Detroit for high school.\n\nThe Archdiocese of Detroit lists a number of primary and secondary schools in the city, along with those in the metro area. There are 23 Catholic high schools in the Archdiocese of Detroit. Of the three Catholic high schools in the city, two are operated by the Society of Jesus and the third is co-sponsored by the Sisters, Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary and the Congregation of St. Basil.\n\nThe Detroit Public Library operates the Rose and Robert Skillman Branch Library downtown at 121 Gratiot with the library headquarters located in Midtown. The downtown branch first opened January 4, 1932. Skillman received its current name after the Skillman Foundation donated to the library system.\n\nTwo consulates are located in the Renaissance Center; the Consulate-General of Japan, Detroit is located on the 16th Floor of the 400 Tower, and the Consulate-General of Canada in Detroit is located in Suite 1100 of the 600 Tower. The Consulate of Italy in Detroit is located in Suite 1840 in the Buhl Building. The Consulate of Mexico in Detroit is located in Suite 830 in the Penobscot Building.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20292161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20292161", "title": "Firmographics", "text": "Firmographics\n\nFirmographics (also known as emporographics or firm \"demographics\") are sets of characteristics to segment prospect organizations.\n\nWhat demographics are to people, firmographics are to organizations. However, Webster (2005) suggested that the term \"firmographics\" is a combination of demographics and geographics.\n\nCommonly used firmographics include SIC, company size and location. The term \"firmographics\" is mostly used in relation to a first step of nested approach or segmentation funnel, which was introduced by Shapiro and Bonoma in 1984.\n\nFirmographics variables allow firms to consider the features of organizational behavior in detail, for instance in a particular industry. It is helpful when there is no significant difference between operating variables, purchasing approach, situational factors and personal characteristics of customers.\n\nGeodemographic segmentation is a logical starting point because \n\nHowever, Webster (2005) believed that this approach misses a set of essential variables. Moreover, a differentiation between segmentation bases of nested approach is too complicated.\n\nThe first attempts to segment industrial markets were made in 1934. J. Frederick described five factors that should be considered when defining a component market: industry, product use, company buying habits, channels of distribution, and geographic location.\n\nThe term emporographics was coined by Banting in the early 1970s and refers to the equivalent of demographics in the context of industrial markets (Gross, A.C., Banting, P.M., Meredith, L.N., and Ford, I.D.: Business Marketing. Houghton Mifflin, Boston, MA, 1993). However, now the term “firmographics” is increasingly widely used.\n\nYoram Wind and Richard Cardozo in 1974 advocate a two-stage approach to industrial segmentation that consists of macrosegments and microsegments. They explain that macrosegments consist of key organizational characteristics such as size of the buying firm, SIC category, geographic location, and usage factors, hence, mostly of firm demographics. In some cases, single-stage segmentation based primarily on business demographics is sufficient for identifying and targeting markets. More typical, however, is that a two-stage approach that will employ benefits and organizational psychographics and purchasing criteria will be needed to provide complete market profiles.\n\nFirmographics play crucial role in one of the most significant developments in business segmentation theory came in 1984 with the work of Bonoma and Shapiro who were the first to propose a truly multistep basis for segmenting business markets. They proposed the use of five general segmentation criteria which they arranged in a nested hierarchy. The set of segmentation bases captures from macro-level to micro-level, and firmographics belong to the macro approach and comprise from industry, company size, customer location.\n\nIt is not recommended to base segmentation solely on emporographics in the long term unless they reflect clear differences in needs, benefits, and product use. This is because the increasing competitive pressures observable in most organizational markets will, sooner or later, erode any industry structures not based on customer needs.\n\nFirmographics may bear little direct relation to user needs or purchase requirements and benefits. Curran and Goodfellow suggest that descriptor-based approaches are popular, because they are convenient, clear cut, easy to implement, and they result in boundaries that are relatively stable over time.\n\nNevertheless, they add, such approaches are also arbitrary and usually are based largely on managerial judgment and intuition. It is easy for empirically oriented academics to underestimate the importance and value of managerial intuition, especially when this is based on experience. The attraction of descriptor-based or firmographic approaches is understandable in the circumstances and can provide useful and important insights to the practical issues of engaging with customers. More accurately, such emporographic variables facilitate such logistical issues of supplier convenience as minimizing sales or distribution costs and, perhaps, prices but this is not the principal reason for emporographic analysis.\n\nBut these approaches provide little understanding of underlying customer needs and so do not constitute a sufficient basis for segmentation in unfamiliar or competitively challenging markets. This point is demonstrated in product development processes where sophisticated segmentation will provide ample insight to evolving customer needs into the future, while emporographic approaches will struggle even to describe historic customer needs.\n\nIndustry firmographics refer to the activities of the firm. At a very high level, organizations can be classified into business and government segments. Most business activities are naturally constrained to certain industries due to their core competencies or the demands of the customers. Only a few business activities are not. Therefore, industry type becomes a natural market segmentation variable for businesses. Government organizations can be segmented by their federal, state, county, regional, city, and municipality status. The dominant business segmentation variables are those associated with an NAICS or SIC code. NAICS refers to the North American Industry Classification System adapted by the U.S. Census bureau in 1997. SIC refers to the older Standard Industrial Classification system that was established in 1937. Either NAICS or SIC can be used to identify firms by industry. While most businesses use the newer NAICS, many still work with the older SIC and both systems can be used with most modern business research reports and tools.\n\nLocation firmographics refers to where the business is located. As a segmentation variable, firms may be aggregated by city, metropolitan statistical area, state, region, country, or continent. Alternatively, firms may be targeted according to their distance from a central location, usually the location of the firm conducting the sales and marketing effort. Most business activities are naturally constrained to certain regions due to competitive pressures, legal restrictions, and cost constraints. Only a few business activities are not. As such, location becomes a natural market segmentation variable for businesses. The nature of the industry plays a role if the location is of big importance. Businesses in a certain industry can therefore be compared with each other on location.\n\nCustomer size in Firmographics refers to the size of clients the company has. This can range from small- to mid-size companies or Fortune 500 clients. (Korten, 2012) The size of customers companies aim for may distinguish one company from another. The basis for measuring the different size of customers is depending on which product or service is being purchased. For example, you have customers that purchase high volume because of low-priced product or customers that purchase low volume because of high-priced product.\n\nStatus and structure firmographics can refer to the relation of one organization to another, or it can refer to the legal status of an organization. For instance, individual establishments (also known as firms by the above definition) may be categorized as being independent businesses, part of a larger parent company, or the headquarters of a parent company. Similarly, firms may be categorized as being a stand-alone entity, a franchisee of a franchising organization, a subsidiary of a larger organization, or the outlet of a larger organization. Alternatively, firms may be categorized as being a sole proprietorship, limited liability corporation, limited liability partnership, private corporation, or public shareholder-owned corporation. Other variables describing the status or structure of an organization are used as well.\n\nPerformance firmographics refer to the characteristics of a firm related to its business execution over time. The duration of a firm’s existence, rate of growth or decline, profits and losses, and changes in profits and losses can all be indicators of the likelihood of a firm to need a business product or service. Firms in the same industry of relatively similar size but undergoing different rates of growth or decline are likely to have very different demands for business services. As such, they can form meaningful segmentation variables. Companies carrying put segmentation of their customers choose performance metrics based on the information they would like to acquire. That is why there may be no performance variable, but a group of variables that can be referred to as «performance», such as:\n\nThe table below represents some other possible variables used in firmographics:\n\n"}
{"id": "10319097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10319097", "title": "Globally integrated enterprise", "text": "Globally integrated enterprise\n\nThe globally integrated enterprise is a term coined in 2006 by Sam Palmisano, the then CEO of IBM Corp, used to denote \"a company that fashions its strategy, its management, and its operations in pursuit of a new goal: the integration of production and value delivery worldwide.\"\n\nPalmisano argues that in the international model of the 20th century, most operations were centred in their home country, with only elements of sales and distribution happening overseas.\nThe multinational model of the 21st century—in which companies created small versions of themselves in each country—was a response to the trade barriers that arose after the World Wars. For IBM—Palmisano's employer—this was a successful model because it enabled the company to grow in those markets, understand local customer requirements and cultivate local talent. But it also created redundancy or duplication as each country had its own back-office functions, such as— supply, procurement, finance and human resources.\n\nNow the globally integrated enterprise can locate functions anywhere in the world, based on the right cost, skills and environment, argues Palmisano. For example, IBM now has one supply chain; and this new organizational macrostructure has emerged because everything is connected, and work can move to the place where it is performed cheapest. This approach is made possible due to the rise of globalization, and coming down of many of the barriers that haltered cross-border commerce.\n\nPalmisano mentions the \"Law of Global Integration\", driven by three forces—economics, expertise and openness—without explicitly stating what it is or how it can be verified.\n\nBrad Setser of Roubini Global Economics (RGE) Monitor wrote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46366433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46366433", "title": "Gus Attridge", "text": "Gus Attridge\n\nMichael Guy Attridge, known as Gus Attridge is a South African businessman. He is the deputy CEO of Aspen Pharmacare, which he co-founded with Stephen Saad in 1997. In 2013 Attridge's 4% personal stake in the company was valued at over $320 million.\n"}
{"id": "10884535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10884535", "title": "Hawaiian Electric Industries", "text": "Hawaiian Electric Industries\n\nHawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI; ) is the largest supplier of electricity in the state of Hawaii, supplying power to 95% of Hawaii's population through its electric utilities: Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc., Hawai'i Electric Light Company, Inc. and Maui Electric Company, Limited. In addition, HEI owns a financial institution serving Hawaii, American Savings Bank.\n\nHECO, HELCO, and MECO employ more than 2,000 people. Approximately 20,000 Hawaii residents are shareholders of HECO’s parent company, Hawaiian Electric Industries. The company is headquartered in Honolulu. The net income of the company reached 164 million dollars by the end of 2012 with a yearly revenue of 3.4 billion dollars.\n\nThe island of Kauai is the only island in the state not supplied by HEI. Instead, the consumer-owned Kauai Island Utility Cooperative manages that island's electricity.\n\nHawaiian Electric Company (often abbreviated HECO, pronounced HEE-coh) incorporated on October 13, 1891. Within about 16 years the utility had 2,500 customers on the island of Oahu. By 1914 HECO had started rural service to the windward side of the island and was marketing electric products like refrigerators and flat irons. By 1937 HECO broke ground on its second power plant, and transmission lines soon crisscrossed Oahu.\n\nDuring World War II HECO power plants, now linked to busy military bases, generated more than one million kilowatt hours of electricity each day. (= > 42 MW average power)\n\nHawaii became a state in 1959, and by then the entire island of Oahu was electrified. Massive power plants, some still in operation today, came online. HECO flipped the switch on a 116 MW plant in downtown Honolulu in 1954. The state's first reheat steam turbine generator went on line at Kahe on the west coast of Oahu. Today, Kahe is the state's largest plant with a total generating capacity of 650 MW.\n\nHECO purchased Maui Electric Company (abbreviated MECO and pronounced ME-coh) in 1968. In 1970 HECO also acquired the Big Island's Hilo Electric Light Company (later to be renamed Hawaii Electric Light Company, abbreviated HELCO and pronounced HEL-coh). MECO had expansion plans of its own. In 1988, it acquired the Lanai City power plant on the island of Lanai, and in 1989, Molokai Electric Company on the island of Molokai. Hawaiian Electric Industries, Inc. (HEI) was created as a holding company for these various utilities in 1983.\nIn 2013 HECO began working with Siemens to develop a self-healing grid in eastern Oahu and Waikiki that will ensure a reliable electrical supply.\n\nOn December 4, 2014, NextEra Energy tendered an offer to purchase HEI for $4.3 billion. The sale required approval by the Hawaii Public Utility Commission. On July 18, 2016, it was announced that the merger was cancelled after the State PUC disapproved the deal. The merger included plans to convert HEI's oil-fired generating plants to run on natural gas, which were to use liquified natural gas imported from a British Columbia plant of FortisBC. The upgrades were cancelled as they were dependent upon approval of the merger.\n\nIn 2016 HECO produced 8.8 TWh, of which 2.3 TWh were renewable. Most of the power came from oil, using 8.5 million barrels in 2016, down from 10.7 million barrels in 2008.\n\nHawaiian Electric supports the adoption of electric vehicles. The company's goal is to have the majority of vehicles in Hawaii be electric vehicles by 2045. As of November 2018, it currently stands at 1% of all vehicles on the road. Hawaiian Electric filed a road map with the state.\n\nOahu: total firm generating capability in 2016 was 1,726.5 megawatts for 304,261 customers, with 19.4% coming from renewable resources.\nMaui: total firm generating capability is 274.1 megawatts for 70,872 customers, with 36.9% coming from renewable resources.\nBig Island: total firm generating capability 281.4 megawatts for 85,029 customers, with 54.2% coming from renewable resources.\nThrough a cooperative effort with HECO, High Technology Development Corporation (HTDC), an agency of the State of Hawai’i, initiated the Hawai’i Electric Vehicle Demonstration Project (HEVDP) consortium to develop an electric vehicle industry in Hawai’i. The islands have about 5,000 rechargeable vehicles.\n\nIn 2015, the Hawaii State Legislature amended the State's Renewable Portfolio Standards to establish the nation's first goal of 100% renewable energy: \nHawaiian Electric has indicated in its Power Supply Improvement Plan that it will achieve these goals early, including achieving 100% renewable electricity for the island of Moloka'i by the year 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40417082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40417082", "title": "Institute for Pioneering of Education and Economic Excellence", "text": "Institute for Pioneering of Education and Economic Excellence\n\nInstitute for Pioneering of Education and Economic Excellence (INSPIRE) is a Malaysian first national think tank dedicated on promoting entrepreneurship and business based education excellence. It is the first Malaysia Non profit organisation, Non-politics that is focusing on promoting and development of entrepreneurship among youth.\n\nIt was founded on 12 June 2012 by Engku Isa Al-Husam and Mohd Fitri Ibrahim in Penang and later joined by Tunku 'Abidin Muhriz and Dato' Kusyairie Amir as the board of advisors. INSPIRE headquartered at Bandar Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur.\n\n"}
{"id": "43105479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43105479", "title": "Javier Arau", "text": "Javier Arau\n\nJavier Arau (September 30, 1975) is an American composer, saxophonist, conductor, theorist, author, and entrepreneur. He is the founder and executive director of New York Jazz Academy, leads the Javier Arau Jazz Orchestra, and is the author of several works on music theory and improvisation.\n\nJavier Arau was born in Santa Monica, California and raised in Sacramento, California. He received scholarships to attend Lawrence University in 1993 and New England Conservatory in 1998.\n\nHe received an Outstanding Performance Award in 1994, Extended Jazz Composition awards in 1996 and 2000, and a Jazz Arranging award in 2000 from DownBeat Magazine. He also was the first-ever recipient of the ASCAP Young Jazz Composers Award, in 2002.\n\nHe has been featured the New York Times, DownBeat Magazine, on NBC TV's Today in New York, and was the featured cover artist on the Saxophone Journal in August 2009. All About Jazz hailed, \"Arau's 'Paper Train' is a marvelous bit of modern composition. Arau's 'Missouri Blues' toys with the edges of funk and fusion, and he puts grit into his tone to match. ...Good music based on strong roots.\". Saxophone Journal noted, \"Those who we remember best--Bach, Telemann, Vivaldi, Haydn and Mozart--did it all. Today there are very few who do it all, and an incredibly small proportion of them do it all extremely well. One who does is Javier Arau.\"\n\nIn 2009, he founded New York Jazz Academy, a NYC-based music school. He also leads the Javier Arau Jazz Orchestra.\n\n2013 Lawrence University Alumni Association \"Service To Society\" Alumni Award\n\n2012 Adjudicator, MTNA National Chamber Music Competition\n\n2007 Finalist, ASCAP/IAJE Gil Evans Fellowship\n\n2002 Winner, ASCAP Young Jazz Composer Award\n\n2000 Winner, Down Beat Magazine Award, extended original composition\n\n2000 Winner, Down Beat Magazine Award, jazz arrangement\n\n1999 Featured Composer, Berkeley Symphony Orchestra, Kent Nagano, dir.\n\n1997 Winner, Down Beat Magazine Award, extended original composition\n\n1997 First Prize, MTNA National Collegiate Chamber Music Competition\n\n1996 Outstanding Jazz Performer, Down Beat Magazine Award\n\n1991 Inductee, Mickey Mouse Club Hall of Fame\n\n1991 Featured performer, The Disney Channel’s Mickey Mouse Club\n\n1990 MENC Young Composer Award\n\nJavier's compositions have received awards from ASCAP, BMI, DownBeat Magazine, and IAJE, and are published by UNC Jazz Press and Dorn Publications. At the age of 19, his transcription and analysis of Joe Henderson’s Grammy award-winning solo on was published in IAJE’s Jazz Educators Journal, which became widely regarded as the definitive transcription of that iconic performance. Henderson got word of Javier's efforts and quickly became a mentor to him. Arau has published his \"Augmented Scale Theory,\" which helps bridge the gap between the chromatic tendencies of modern jazz and the diatonic roots of traditional jazz harmony, enabling the improviser to play creatively over such challenging material as Coltrane’s “Giant Steps” and Wayne Shorter classics. His most recent book, a practice manual for all instruments, \"365 Ways of Practicing Major Scales in Thirds\" is available in bookstores nationwide. Javier is currently writing a book entitled \"Anatomy Of A Melody: A Jazz Improv Primer for All Instruments\". Javier's Jelly and Jam Session, his extensive music outreach program, was licensed by the NYC Department of Education to be used in the public school music curriculum.\n\n"}
{"id": "15982427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15982427", "title": "Jonathan S. Bush", "text": "Jonathan S. Bush\n\nJonathan S. Bush (born March 10, 1969) is an American technology entrepreneur, best known as the cofounder and former chief executive officer of athenahealth, a Watertown, Massachusetts-based healthcare technology company founded in 1997. On June 6, 2018, Bush resigned from his position as CEO of athenahealth during an activist campaign by Elliott Management.\n\nBush is the son of Jonathan Bush, cousin of U.S. President George W. Bush, nephew of U.S. President George H. W. Bush, and brother of television presenter Billy Bush. He grew up in Manhattan and attended the Allen-Stevenson School.\n\nBush graduated from the Phillips Academy college preparatory school in Andover, Massachusetts. He attended Boston University for one year in 1988-89, graduated from Wesleyan University in 1993 with a Bachelor of Arts degree from The College of Social studies, and earned a Master of Business Administration degree from Harvard University in 1997.\n\nJust before coming to Wesleyan, Bush took time off from his studies to work on George H. W. Bush's 1988 presidential campaign. As an EMT, Bush spent a summer vacation during college operating a 911-response ambulance in New Orleans. In 1991, Bush volunteered to become a combat medic at the start of Operation Desert Storm, doing boot camp at Fort Jackson in South Carolina, but did not ship out because the war ended before he finished.\n\nThe business side of Bush's training stemmed from his time as an associate of J. Bush & Company, Inc., a firm founded by his father that assisted foreign embassies in banking, and as a consultant at Booz Allen Hamilton, where he was a member of its Managed Care Strategy Group.\n\nIn 1997, Bush and Todd Park, a colleague from Booz Allen, founded Athena Women's Health, a women's health and birthing clinic housed in San Diego for soon-to-be, new, and current mothers. After Park's brother Ed Park helped develop its system, Athena Women's Health transformed into athenahealth, a healthcare technology platform offering a suite of services to help hospital and ambulatory providers coordinate care and work at the tops of their licenses. In 2000, Bush raised more than $10 million in venture capital funding to support athenahealth, which launched a successful IPO in 2007. Bush was athenahealth's CEO until his resignation on June 6, 2018.\n\nBush is the author, with Stephen L. Baker, of the New York Times bestseller \"Where Does It Hurt?: An Entrepreneur's Guide to Fixing Health Care\" (Penguin, May 2014). He is also a frequent contributor to Harvard Business Review, Forbes, and STAT, and to podcasts like POLITICO Pulse Check.\n\nIn 2013, Bush was named CEO of the Year by the Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council (MassTLC). In 2016 he received the Tufts Medical Center's Ellen M. Zane Award for Visionary Leadership. Fortune included Bush as a \"disruptor\" in its list of \"34 Leaders Who Are Changing Healthcare,\" writing that \"few are more persuasive—and outspoken—about the need to repair our healthcare system.\"\n\nBush has been married and divorced twice. He has five children with his first wife. In May 2018, several reports detailed Bush's repeated physical and verbal abuse towards his first wife and numerous sexual misconduct and workplace harassment claims. Bush later formally apologized for his past mistakes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4637687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637687", "title": "Joseph William Drexel", "text": "Joseph William Drexel\n\nJoseph William Drexel (January 24, 1833 – March 25, 1888) was a banker, philanthropist and book collector.\n\nHe was the son of Francis Martin Drexel (1792–1863) and Catherine Hookey (1795–1870). His siblings were Anthony Joseph Drexel (1826–1893) and Francis Anthony Drexel (1824–1885). Through his brother Francis, he was the uncle of Saint Katharine Drexel (1858–1955).\n\nDrexel attended the Central High School in Philadelphia, and traveled through Spain, Egypt, Syria, Turkey, and Greece.\n\nJoseph Drexel was a partner in the firm of Drexel, Morgan and Company, where his brother, Anthony, was senior partner. In 1876, tired of battling the brusque J. Pierpont Morgan, Joseph retired from the business and devoted his life to philanthropic and civic organizations.\n\nHe owned a farm near New York City, where people without work were housed, clothed, fed, and taught agriculture until they could find a job. He owned a large tract of land in Maryland, which was developed into Klej Grange, a planned community, where the lots are sold to poor people at cost. About 7,000 acres (28 km²) in Michigan were bought for the same purpose.\n\nHe was chairman of New York Sanitary Commission, the commissioner of education, president of the New York Philharmonic Society, trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, founding trustee of the American Museum of Natural History, trustee of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, and director of the Metropolitan Opera house.\n\nIn 1887, he donated a painting made by Edward Gay, that cost $2,000, to the State of New York to be placed in the Executive Mansion, which Governor David B. Hill was about to move into.\n\nDrexel was an avid collector of music, eventually amassing a collection of over 6,000 items. Upon his death, the Drexel Collection was accepted by the Lenox Library. When the Lenox Library was joined with those of John Jacob Astor and Samuel Tilden to form The New York Public Library, Drexel's collection became the basis for the Library's Music Division, housed today in the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts.\n\nThe \"Concordia Polka\" composed by Theodore Gundlach was dedicated to Drexel.\n\nIn 1881, Drexel acquired title to Mount McGregor near Saratoga Springs, New York. He constructed the Hotel Balmoral at the summit and built the Saratoga, Mount McGregor and Lake George Railroad narrow gauge railway from Saratoga Springs. In 1885, Drexel loaned his private summer cottage on Mount McGregor to ex-president Ulysses S. Grant. Grant lived there for six weeks until his death and completed his memoirs. The cottage is now the Grant Cottage State Historic Site.\n\nHe married Lucy Wharton (1841–1912), the daughter of Thomas Lloyd Wharton (1799–1869) and Sarah Ann Smith (b. 1800). Together, they had four children:\n\n\nDrexel died at his home, 103 Madison Avenue in New York City, on March 25, 1888. He had been suffering from Bright's Disease for a year and a half before then. He was buried in The Woodlands Cemetery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nJohn Quincy Adams Ward's 1889 bust of Drexel is located on the third-floor vestibule of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10199014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10199014", "title": "Juan José Muñoz", "text": "Juan José Muñoz\n\nJuan José Muñoz (3 June 1950 – 8 May 2013) was an Argentine businessman. He was an advisor to the current Minister of Interior, Mr. Aníbal Fernández, during the period when the latter was a federal senator. Afterwards, he worked for the trade union that represents State Workers (the “Asociación Mutual de Trabajadores del Estado”, or AMTE).\n\nMuñoz was born in La Plata, Argentina. He was a self-made man, who rose from humble beginnings to become the owner of various agencies specializing in finances, tourism, and insurance, as well as a building company and a hotel chain. In November 2004, he was elected President of the football club Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata, the oldest club currently affiliated to the Argentine Football Association (AFA). He occupied this position until the end of 2007, when a new management committee was chosen.\n\nDuring his mandate as President, the football club from La Plata, better known by its nickname of \"El Lobo\" (Spanish for “The Wolf”), exhibited two very contradictory faces.\n\nAt the beginning of Muñoz's tenure, the team was at the edge of relegation to second division. He spearheaded the decision to hire Pedro Troglio as coach, who was instrumental in turning around the performance by mid-2005. During the second half of that year, the team gelled in the Torneo Apertura 2005 and pulled off an excellent campaign which had it fighting neck-to-neck with Boca Juniors for the championship. Finally, Gimnasia crowned the effort by becoming a close runner-up, the fifth time the team obtained such honours in the ten years spanning 1995-2005.\nIn June 2006, Muñoz decided to withdraw the Nº 21 jersey, which was the number used by Pedro Troglio while playing in Gimnasia during the 1990s. This was the first time such a recognition was bestowed upon a club player in the Argentine football league.\n\nDespite the above successes, the club was also mired in controversy during Muñoz's tenure. Soon after becoming a president, he decided unilaterally to separate several team players from the main roster, including some iconic ones who had been part of the runner-up campaigns of the mid-1990s (e.g., Gustavo Barros Schelotto, Enzo Noce and Andrés Yllana).\nIn 2005, the old Gimnasia stadium (known as El Bosque, the Forest) became suspended after incidents that took place during a decisive game against Newell's Old Boys. As president, he made the decision to play temporarily in the much-debated \"Estadio Ciudad de La Plata\" venue. However, that temporary move soon became de facto permanent, after he refused to comply with the various reforms requested for the old stadium by the CoProSeDe, the provincial organization in charge of security at sporting venues. Muñoz argued that the cost of making these reforms was “unsurmountable” (approximately 2 million Argentine pesos). This decision was resisted by many who demanded a return to El Bosque. After the end of Muñoz's mandate in 2007, the new management began finally the renovations; it is believed that Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata should be able to use the old field some time during 2008.\n\nOther controversial events took place in 2006-2007. In October 2006, at half-time during a match against Boca Juniors in La Plata, Muñoz appeared in the dressing rooms, requesting to be able to talk to the referee and voice a number of complaints. The result was the suspension of the game by the referee, and a six-month reproof by the Asociación del Fútbol Argentino to the President of Gimnasia. Prior to the continuation of this game, several weeks later, some Gimnasia players complained that they had been pressed by nondescript visitors who wished that Gimnasia would allow a victory by Boca, so as not to benefit archrivals Estudiantes. In the outcry that followed, Muñoz was widely considered responsible for these events. Gimnasia went on to lose the game 1-4, after leading 1-0 at the time of suspension.\n\nMuñoz's tenure was also marked by the worst-ever defeat at a La Plata derby (a 0-7 fall against Estudiantes), as well as by the relegation of the once-powerful basketball team, following the withdrawal of strong financial support for this sport in the Club.\n\nJuan José Muñoz died on 8 May 2013 after a long illness. He was 62 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "46427161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46427161", "title": "Lagos State Civil Service", "text": "Lagos State Civil Service\n\nThe Lagos State Civil Service consists of employees in Lagos State government agencies other than the military. Most employees under the service are career civil servants in the Lagos state ministries, progressing based on qualifications and seniority.\nThe civil service is held by Head of Service, a senior member of the state civil service appointed by the state Governor.\n\nThe civil service is mainly organized around the state ministries, headed by a commissioner appointed by the Governor of Lagos state. The Governor's appointments are confirmed by the State House of Representatives.\nThere are 24 government ministries of Lagos State. \nIn some cases a commissioner is responsible for more than one ministry, for example Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions may be combined as Lagos State Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions and the commissioners are assisted by a Permanent Secretary, who is a senior civil servant. \nThe ministries are responsible for various parastatals(government-owned corporations) such as universities (Education) and the State Broadcasting Commission. The Lagos state ministry is coordinated by the Commissioner, assisted by a Permanent Secretary, who head the civil service departments.\n"}
{"id": "20663510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20663510", "title": "Larry Kudlow", "text": "Larry Kudlow\n\nLawrence Alan Kudlow (born August 20, 1947) is an American financial analyst and former television host serving as Director of the National Economic Council under President Donald Trump since 2018.\n\nKudlow began his career as a junior financial analyst at the New York Federal Reserve. He soon left government to work on Wall Street at Paine Webber and Bear Stearns as a financial analyst. In 1981, after previously volunteering and working for left-wing politicians and causes, Kudlow joined the administration of Ronald Reagan as associate director for economics and planning in the Office of Management and Budget.\n\nAfter leaving the Reagan Administration during the second term, Kudlow returned to Wall Street and Bear Stearns, serving as the firm's chief economist from 1987 until 1994. During this time, he also advised the gubernatorial campaign of Christine Todd Whitman on economic issues. In the late 1990s, after a publicized battle with cocaine and alcohol addiction, Kudlow left Wall Street to become an economic media commentatorfirst with \"National Review\", and later hosting several shows on CNBC.\n\nKudlow returned to politics in 2018, serving as Gary Cohn's replacement at the National Economic Council.\n\nKudlow was born and raised in New Jersey, the son of Ruth (née Grodnick) and Irving Howard Kudlow. His family is Jewish. Kudlow attended the private Elisabeth Morrow School in Englewood, New Jersey until 6th grade. He then attended the private Dwight-Englewood School from the second half of middle school to high school.\n\nKudlow graduated from University of Rochester in Rochester, New York, with a degree in history in 1969. Known as \"Kuddles\" to friends, he was a star on the tennis team, and a member of the left-wing Students for a Democratic Society at Rochester.\n\nIn 1971, Kudlow attended Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, where he studied politics and economics. He left before completing his master's degree.\n\nIn 1987, Kudlow was hired by Bear Stearns as its chief economist and senior managing director. Kudlow also served as an economic counsel to A. B. Laffer & Associates, the San Diego, California, company owned by Arthur Laffer, a major supply-side economist and promoter of the \"Laffer curve\", an economic measure of the relationship between tax levels and government revenue. Kudlow was fired from Bear Stearns in the mid-1990s due to his cocaine addiction.\n\nHe was a member of the board of directors of Empower America, a supply-side economics organization founded in 1993 and merged in 2004 with the Citizens for a Sound Economy to form FreedomWorks. Kudlow is also a founding member of the Board of Advisors for the Independent Institute and consulting chief economist for American Skandia Life Assurance, Inc., in Connecticut, a subsidiary of insurance giant Prudential Financial.\n\nKudlow became Economics Editor at National Review Online (NRO) in May 2001. In December 2007, NRO published a Kudlow article entitled \"Bush Boom Continues\", in which he asserted the economy would continue to expand for years to come. The Great Recession, the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression, began that month.\n\nKudlow served as one of a rotating set of hosts on the CNBC show \"America Now\", which began airing in November 2001. In May 2002, that show was renamed \"Kudlow & Cramer\", and Kudlow and Jim Cramer became the permanent hosts. In January 2005, Cramer left to host his own show, \"Mad Money\", and the program's name was changed the next month to \"Kudlow & Company\". The program went on hiatus in October 2008, and returned in January 2009 as \"The Kudlow Report\", which ended its run on CNBC in March 2014. Kudlow added co-anchor of CNBC's \"The Call\" to his responsibilities in late 2008. Kudlow's style is boldly assertive and his line of argument is always framed in expressions of optimism about the economy, the stock market, and the dollar.\n\nKudlow is also a regular guest on \"Squawk Box\". He has contributed to CNBC.com on MSN. He also appeared on \"The John Batchelor Show\" as a co-host on Tuesdays and as a substitute, until leaving those duties to become an economics advisor to President Trump. In March 2006, Kudlow started to host a talk radio show on politics and economics on WABC (AM) as \"The Larry Kudlow Show\" aired on Saturday mornings from 10am to 1pm ET and via nationwide syndication starting June 5, 2010. \"The Larry Kudlow Show\" was syndicated by Westwood One. He started a blog named \"Kudlow's Money Politic$\" in October 2004.\n\nHe has also contributed to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"Washington Times\", the \"Cato Journal\" of the Cato Institute, and the \"City Journal\" of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, as well as the television show \"The McLaughlin Group\", and has appeared as a guest on \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\" and on \"Wall Street Week\". \n\nIn 1970, while he was still a Democrat, Kudlow joined Joseph Duffey's \"New Politics\" senatorial campaign in Connecticut. Duffey was a leading anti-war politician during the Vietnam war era. Kudlow, working with Yale University law student Bill Clinton as well as many other rising young Democratic students, was known as a \"brilliant\" district coordinator. Kudlow worked on the U.S. Senate campaign of Joseph Duffey, along with Bill Clinton, John Podesta, and Michael Medved, another future conservative, and in 1976, he worked on the U.S. Senate campaign of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, along with Tim Russert, against Conservative Party incumbent James L. Buckley, brother of William F. Buckley, Jr.\n\nKudlow began his career as a staff economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, taking a position \"as a junior economist in a job. He worked in the division of the Fed that handled open market operations.\n\nDuring the first term of the Reagan administration (1981–1985), Kudlow was associate director for economics and planning in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), a part of the Executive Office of the President. While he worked at the OMB, Kudlow was also an advisory committee member of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, more commonly known as Freddie Mac. In April 2005, New York Governor George Pataki included Kudlow in a six-member state tax commission.\n\nKudlow's name was floated by Republicans as a potential Senate candidate in either Connecticut or New York in 2016. In October 2015, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, in an email to supporters, attacked Kudlow as \"a champion of big corporations and big money\" despite Kudlow's not announcing a run. In early December 2015, Jack Fowler of National Review created a 527 organization that encouraged Kudlow to run.\n\nIn March 2018, President Trump appointed Kudlow to be Director of the National Economic Council, succeeding Gary Cohn. He assumed office on April 2, 2018.\n\nIn April 2018, Kudlow said that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office was untrustworthy. He dismissed CBO's estimate that the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would increase the deficit by $1.3 trillion, saying, \"Never believe the CBO. Very important: Never believe them. They're always wrong, especially with regard to tax cuts, which they never score properly.\" All credible studies of the tax plan, whether by non-partisan organizations, Wall Street analysts, or right-leaning research organizations, showed that the tax plan would increase the deficit. In July 2018, Kudlow falsely asserted that \"Even the CBO numbers show now that the entire $1.5 trillion tax cut is virtually paid for by higher revenues and better nominal GDP.\" The CBO actually found that the tax cut reduces revenues and that deficits would increase by $1.9 trillion after accounting for macroeconomic feedback.\n\nAlso in April, Kudlow alleged that U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley had announced that the U.S. would soon sanction Russia due to \"momentary confusion\". After Haley contradicted Kudlow's claim, Kudlow called Haley to apologize.\n\nAs Trump celebrated the six-month anniversary of the tax cut on June 29, 2018, Kudlow asserted that the tax cut was generating such growth that \"it's throwing off enormous amount[s] of new tax revenues\", and \"the deficit, which was one of the other criticisms, is coming down – and it's coming down rapidly\". Both assertions were incorrect. Since the tax cut was enacted, federal tax receipts increased 1.9% on a year-on-year basis, while they increased 4.0% during the comparable period in 2017. By the same method, the federal budget deficit increased 37.8% while it increased 16.4% during the comparable period in 2017. Kevin Hassett, chairman of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers, noted days earlier that the deficit was \"skyrocketing\", which is consistent with the analysis of every reputable budget analyst. Kudlow later asserted he was referring to future deficits, although every credible budget forecast indicates increasing deficits in coming years, made worse by the Trump tax cut if not offset by major spending cuts. Barring such spending cuts, the CBO projected the tax cut would add $1.27 trillion in deficits over the next decade, even after considering any economic growth the tax cut might generate.\n\nKudlow asserted on June 29, 2018, that \"capital investment, you know, for new jobs and better careers, [is] flowing in from all corners of the world\". However, foreign direct investment – the total flow of investment capital into the United States from the rest of the world – declined 35% on a year-on-year basis during the first quarter after the tax cut, the most recent data available. That was consistent with the 37% decline during Trump's first five quarters in office, compared to the five quarters immediately preceding his presidency.\n\nOn June 29, 2018, Kudlow stated, \"This is now, the USA, according to the OECD, the hottest economy in the world.\" However, this was not a new phenomenon under the Trump presidency, as by 2015 the American GDP growth rate had been almost twice that of other industrialized countries since 2008, and by 2015 America had created as many jobs than all other industrialized countries combined since 2010. Kudlow also asserted: \"They've been saying that all along, OK? We could never get to 3% growth... It couldn't be done, they say. It's being done.\" However, analysts have actually said that 3% \"sustained\" growth was unlikely, rather than \"periodic\" quarters of growth of 3% or more. From 2009 through 2016, GDP growth exceeded 3% in eight quarters – including 5.1% and 4.9% in consecutive quarters of 2014 – yet it did not sustain 3% or more for any full year. Although GDP exceeded 3% in two consecutive quarters of 2017, the average growth was 2.4% through Trump's first five quarters in office. The final figure for first quarter 2018 GDP growth was released the day before Kudlow spoke – coming in at 2.0%. Three months later GDP for the second quarter of 2018 was announced at an annual growth rate of 4.1%.\n\nOn August 28, 2018, after Trump accused Google of rigging search results to show information biased against him, Kudlow told reporters \"we're taking a look at\" regulating Google.\n\nA self-described \"Reagan supply-sider\", Kudlow is known for his support for tax cuts and deregulation. According to \"The Economist\", Kudlow is \"the quintessential member of the Republican Party's business wing\". Kudlow has no formal economics qualifications.\n\nIn 1993, Kudlow predicted that Bill Clinton's tax increases would dampen economic growth. When the economy boomed in the late-1990s, Kudlow credited it to tax cuts enacted during the Reagan administration (1981–1989).\n\nHe has also advocated that employees be compelled to make greater contributions to their pension and medical costs, suggesting that these expenses are an undue burden on businesses and defends high executive compensation as a manifestation of market forces and opposes most forms of government regulation. In general, he has described himself as a supply-side economist, arguing that reducing tax rates will encourage economic growth and ultimately increase tax revenue. He has often argued that economic growth will clear deficits, while acknowledging the limits of growth. He has also advocated wide ownership of stocks and has frequently spoken of a broad \"investor class\" that includes most Americans.\n\nKudlow was a strong advocate of George W. Bush's substantial tax cuts, and argued that the tax cuts would lead to an economic boom of equal magnitude. After the implementation of the Bush tax cuts, Kudlow insisted year after year that the economy was in the middle of a \"Bush boom\", and chastised other commentators for failing to realize it. Kudlow firmly denied that the United States would enter a recession in 2007, or that it was in the midst of a recession in early to mid-2008. In December 2007, he wrote: \"The recession debate is over. It's not gonna happen. Time to move on. At a bare minimum, we are looking at Goldilocks 2.0. (And that's a minimum). The Bush boom is alive and well. It's finishing up its sixth splendid year with many more years to come\". In a May 2008 column entitled \"'R' is for 'Right'\", Kudlow wrote: \"President George W. Bush may turn out to be the top economic forecaster in the country\". By July 2008, Kudlow continued to deny that the economy was looking poor, insisting that \"We are in a mental recession, not an actual recession\". Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008, creating a full-blown international banking crisis.\n\nAs George W. Bush took office in January 2001, America was in the fourth consecutive fiscal year of federal budget surpluses and the CBO projected increasing surpluses in each year through 2010, totaling over $5 trillion. Days before Bush signed his tax cut plan in June, Kudlow predicted it would cause future budget surpluses to rise. Instead, there were budget deficits in every fiscal year of the Bush administration.\n\nIn their 2015 book \"Superforecasting\", University of Pennsylvania political scientist Philip E. Tetlock and Dan Gardner refer to Kudlow as a \"consistently wrong\" pundit, and use Kudlow's long record of failed predictions to clarify common mistakes that poor forecasters make.\n\nHe supported free trade prior to his White House appointment, but upon his appointment said that he supported President Trump's steel and aluminum tariffs. Kudlow is not known as a deficit hawk. After the 2018 G7 Summit in Charlevoix, Canada, he attacked Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in a candid interview with CNN's Jake Tapper, saying that Trudeau had \"stabbed us in the back\".\n\nOn June 26, 2002, in a commentary in NRO titled \"Taking Back the Market – By Force\", Kudlow called for the United States to attack Iraq, stating that Saddam Hussein had \"weapons of mass destruction at his disposal\" and that \"a lack of decisive follow-through in the global war on terrorism is the single biggest problem facing the stock market and the nation today\". In an open letter dated February 12, 2003, he endorsed George W. Bush's policies on economic growth and jobs.\n\nIn 2016, Kudlow endorsed Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump. He later defended Trump's plan to rebuild the existing wall along the Mexico–United States barrier, declaring it was necessary to prevent terrorists from entering the United States, the United States was at war with ISIS and Trump was going to do what was necessary to protect the country. He also penned an article for RealClearPolitics advocating for conservative unity in the election and asking his conservative peers to stop criticizing Trump and instead help him become a stronger candidate.\n\nKudlow has been married three times: In 1974, he married Nancy Ellen Gerstein, an editor in \"The New Yorker\" magazine's fiction department; the marriage lasted about a year. In 1981, he married Susan (Cullman) Sicher, whose grandfather was businessman Joseph Cullman and whose great-grandfather was businessman Lyman G. Bloomingdale. The Washington wedding was presided over by Federal judge John Sirica. In 1986, he married Judith \"Judy\" Pond, a painter and Montana native.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Kudlow left Bear Stearns and entered a twelve-step program in order to deal with his addictions to cocaine and alcohol. He subsequently converted to Catholicism under the guidance of Father C. John McCloskey III.\n\nKudlow is a member of the Catholic Advisory Board of the Ave Maria Mutual Funds. He was born Jewish. He served as a member of the Fordham University Board of Trustees and is on the advisory committee of the Kemp Institute at the Pepperdine University School of Public Policy.\n\nOn June 11, 2018, Kudlow suffered what the White House referred to as a \"very mild\" heart attack. White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders noted that Kudlow had been admitted to the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, DC, and that he was \"doing well\", and expects a \"full and speedy recovery\". The incident took place on the same day President Trump was set to meet with North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un in Singapore for the American summit with North Korea. On June 13, Kudlow was discharged from the hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40411540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40411540", "title": "List of Boeing 737 MAX orders and deliveries", "text": "List of Boeing 737 MAX orders and deliveries\n\nThis article lists the orders made by airlines and other buyers for the Boeing 737 MAX family of aircraft, which is currently being produced by Boeing Commercial Airplanes, a division of the Boeing Company.\n\nInitially, the customers for the 737 MAX were not disclosed, except for American Airlines. On November 17, 2011, Boeing released the names of two other customers – Lion Air and Aviation Capital Group. At that time, Boeing reported 700 commitments from nine customers for the 737 MAX. Then on December 13, 2011, Southwest Airlines announced they would be the launch customer for the 737 MAX with a firm order of 150 aircraft and 150 options.\n\n, Boeing had 4,783 firm orders from 98 identified customers for the 737 MAX, and the top three identified airline customers for the 737 MAX are: Southwest Airlines with 310 orders, Flydubai with 251 orders, and Lion Air with 251 orders.\n\nThe following table shows total firm orders and deliveries of Boeing 737 MAX aircraft by variant (where known) and customer, as of September 30, 2018.\n\nThe following graph shows total firm orders and deliveries of Boeing 737 MAX aircraft for identified customers, as of September 30, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2265927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265927", "title": "List of FASB Interpretations", "text": "List of FASB Interpretations\n\nFASB Interpretations are published by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). They extend or explain existing standards (primarily published in Statements of Financial Accounting Standards). Interpretations are a part of the U.S. Generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP). 48 interpretations have been published as of September 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "22927633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22927633", "title": "Lucy Fry Mathews", "text": "Lucy Fry Mathews\n\nLucy Fry Mathews (1830–1904) was the wife of former Governor of West Virginia Henry M. Mathews and served as that state's First Lady (1877–1881). She was born in 1830, at Frankford, West Virginia. In 1857, she married Henry M. Mathews. After leaving office, the Mathews moved to Lewisburg, West Virginia. She died in 1904.\n"}
{"id": "48231005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48231005", "title": "Malaysia Australia Business Council", "text": "Malaysia Australia Business Council\n\nThe Malaysia Australia Business Council (MABC) is a non-profit business chamber founded in 1986 with the aim of promoting the interests of its members based in Malaysia with business links to Australia. \n\nAs an active business chamber, the council provides a forum for Malaysian and Australian linked businesses and business people. The MABC works closely with the governments of both countries and plays an active role in developing the bilateral relationship. It is led by an Executive Committee made up of prominent business people from both countries. It's co-patrons are the Malaysian Minister of Trade & Industry and the Australian High Commissioner.\n\nThe MABC works closely with its sister organisation in Australia, the Australia Malaysia Business Council (AMBC).\n\nIn recent years the MABC has seen a growth in activity due to the signing of the Malaysia Australia Free Trade Agreement (MAFTA) which has resulted in increasing bilateral trade between the two countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32575628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32575628", "title": "Nebraska gubernatorial election, 2014", "text": "Nebraska gubernatorial election, 2014\n\nThe 2014 Nebraska gubernatorial election took place on Tuesday, November 4, 2014 to elect the 40th Governor of Nebraska. Republican Candidate and former COO of TD Ameritrade Pete Ricketts defeated Democratic candidate and former Regent of the University of Nebraska Chuck Hassebrook, receiving 57.6% of the vote to Hassebrook's 38.9%.\n\nLieutenant Governor Rick Sheehy first declared his intention to run for Governor in July 2011. Considered to be the \"hand-picked\" successor to incumbent Governor Dave Heineman, he was endorsed by him. Sheehy was joined in the Republican primary by Speaker of the Nebraska Legislature Mike Flood in November 2012. Flood withdrew from the race less than a month later after his wife was diagnosed with breast cancer.\n\nSheehy resigned as Lieutenant Governor and withdrew from the race in February 2013 after the \"Omaha World-Herald\" discovered that he had made 2,300 phone calls on a state-issued phone, many of them long and at night, to four women, none of whom were his wife. At the end of the month, Flood was reported to be reconsidering his decision with his wife progressing well in her treatment. In July he announced that he would not re-enter the race.\n\nCattle rancher Charles Herbster, who had not formally entered the race but had been campaigning since July, became the third Republican to withdraw when he withdrew on August 23. He cited the health of his wife, who had recently undergone heart surgery.\n\nIn September 2013, Omaha businessman Pete Ricketts joined the race. Ricketts, a former chief operating officer of Ameritrade and the son of company founder Joe Ricketts, had run unsuccessfully in 2006 for the U.S. Senate seat held by Ben Nelson.\n\nState Senator Charlie Janssen, who had lagged in endorsements and fundraising, withdrew from the race on February 3, 2014. He said: \"The way the field was shaping up, I didn't see a clear path to victory.\" He later declared his candidacy for State Auditor.\n\nIn February 2014, state attorney general Jon Bruning announced that he was joining the race. His entry made him the perceived front-runner, supplanting Ricketts, who had been regarded as the leading contender up to that time.\n\nIn the May 13 Republican primary, Ricketts narrowly defeated Bruning, with 26.5% of the vote to Bruning's 25.5%. His 1-point margin of victory made this the closest Republican gubernatorial primary in 92 years, since the 1922 primary in which Charles Randall defeated Adam McMullen by 0.6 points.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChuck Hassebrook and Pete Ricketts sparred over education policy, economics and full-time residency in Lincoln at the Nebraska State Fair. Hassebrook opposed school vouchers for public school students, suggesting that tax dollars should be used to improve public schools. Ricketts countered that a gradual voucher policy would help students while keeping money in public schools. The duo showed stark differences in economic policy, with Hassebrook supporting a minimum wage increase and Ricketts opposing an increased wage. Moderator Mike'l Severe asked both candidates if they would reside in the governor's mansion full-time if elected. Ricketts, who has three children attending school in Omaha, said that he had not made a final decision on the question. Hassebrook stated that Nebraska needs a \"full-time governor\" and that he would live in Lincoln because \"40 hours a week is a vacation.\"\n\nThe two candidates traded barbs over past positions in a debate sponsored by Nebraska Educational Communications. Hassebrook accused Ricketts of supporting Gov. Dave Heineman's (R) tax proposal in 2013, which would have increased sales tax rates. The Platte Institute, a conservative think-tank created by Ricketts, supported the tax proposal, which ultimately failed to pass in the face of increasing public criticism. Hassebrook argued that Ricketts tried to hide his support for the measure when he decided to run for governor. Ricketts denied support for the bill, noting that he did not agree with every position taken by the institute.\n\nRicketts countered by bringing up a report co-authored by Hassebrook in 1990 that called for a ban on exports of genetically modified crops. The issue of biotechnology in farming has grown in prominence due to the importance of Nebraska's agricultural sector. Hassebrook responded that he provided little assistance to the authors of the report, and was wrongly credited as a co-author. He also noted that he supported biotechnology research since the early 1990s, when he served on the University of Nebraska Board of Regents.\n\nDebate viewers also saw Hassebrook and Ricketts stake out distinct positions on immigration and the proposed Keystone XL pipeline that would run through Nebraska. Hassebrook advocated for allowing driving licenses for children brought to the country illegally, while Ricketts opposed issuing licenses as a matter of protecting existing laws. Ricketts suggested that the XL Pipeline would bring jobs to the state and securely transport oil across the country, citing problems with rail transportation of oil. Hassebrook opposed the pipeline because he suggested the project would contribute to climate change.\n\nIn Nebraska, gubernatorial nominees select their running mates after the primary elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "305023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305023", "title": "Nelson Shin", "text": "Nelson Shin\n\nNelson Shin (born 1939 in Pyongsan, Hwanghae, Japanese Korea) is an animation director who is the founder and president of Akom Production Co., Ltd., in Seoul, South Korea. He founded Akom in 1985.\n\nIn the 1970s, Shin worked as an animator at the DePatie-Freleng Enterprises, where he worked on the \"Pink Panther\" films. While at DFE, he also contributed to the animation of the lightsaber blades in the original \"Star Wars\".\n\nMuch of the animation Shin's studio has produced has been for American television series. Some of Akom's credits are: \"The Simpsons\", \"\", \"X-Men\", \"Invasion America\" and \"Arthur\". Shin's most well-known accomplishment is his direction of the television series \"The Transformers\" and \"\". Shin also directed the first season of the Canadian animated TV series, \"Toad Patrol\".\n\nBeginning in 1999, Shin worked on the animated feature film \"Empress Chung\". The film was largely animated in North Korea, and in August 2005 became the first movie ever to open simultaneously in North and South Korea.\n\nIn 2009, he was elected president of the International Animated Film Association, a post he held through 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "51356914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51356914", "title": "Nondumiso Mzizana", "text": "Nondumiso Mzizana\n\nNondumiso Mzizana is a South African dentist and businesswoman. A member of the Leadership Board of the Gordon Institute of Business Science at the University of Pretoria, Mzizana is a Board member at the Northern Cape Economic Development, Trade and Investment Promotion Agency and at ZADNA, the ZA Domain Name Authority that regulates, manages and administers South Africa’s Internet top level domain. The CEO of Sikelela Medical and Dental Supplies, she was the recipient of Businesswomen's Association of South Africa’s \"Businesswoman of the Year\" for 2011, and was nominated as the most influential woman business leader in South Africa by \"African Business News\".\n\nA qualified dentist, Mzizana was a senior lecturer at the Medical University of South Africa for 10 years before moving into business. She has been the CEO of Sikelela Medical and Dental Supplies since 2002.\n\nMzizana graduated from the University of Pretoria with a M.Sc. and from the Medical University of South Africa with a MB. Ch.D. She has a Diploma in Odontology from the University of Stellenbosch.\n\nA member of the Leadership Board of the Gordon Institute of Business Science at the University of Pretoria, Mzizana is a Board member at the Northern Cape Economic Development, Trade and Investment Promotion Agency and at ZADNA, the ZA Domain Name Authority that regulates, manages and administers South Africa’s Internet top level domain.\n"}
{"id": "32869240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32869240", "title": "Otohiko Ichiki", "text": "Otohiko Ichiki\n\nIchiki was born in Kagoshima Prefecture. \nIn 1922-1923, Ichiki was briefly Finance Minister in the cabinet of Katō Tomosaburō. As head of the Ministry of Finance, he was cautious in response to unsettled financial situation. Ichiki was Governor of the Bank of Japan from September 5, 1923 through May 10, 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "17657779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17657779", "title": "Painting and Decorating Contractors of America", "text": "Painting and Decorating Contractors of America\n\nThe Painting and Decorating Contractors of America (PDCA) is a non-profit association established in 1884 to represent the painting and decorating industry. It was founded as the \"Master House Painters Association of the United States and Canada\". PDCA has established industry standards, issues publications, and has a contractor accreditation program through Contractor College. Members of PDCA can be found throughout the United States, Canada and other countries. They are served regionally and locally by more than 100 volunteer based Councils, Chapters and Forums.\n\nhttp://www.findapainter.com is PDCA's consumer website, dedicated to connecting homeowners and business owners with qualified, skilled painters they can trust.\n\nThe \"A. E. Robert Friedman/PDCA Scholarship Fund of PDCA\" was formed in 1978 to honor Bob Friedman on the occasion of his fortieth anniversary as legal counsel for the PDCA. Since 1978, over 158 scholarships have been given to students between the ages of 18 and 24 of any background and career choice that have been nominated by an active member of PDCA. It is intended to show the commitment of PDCA members to supporting the educational efforts of young people in search of promising careers. In 2013, seven scholarships of $3,000 per recipient were awarded, up from five scholarships the previous year.\n\nThe association contributes to an annual convention, the \"Paintings and Decorating Expo\", which presents new developments in the painting and decorating industry. During the event PDCA presents awards to members of the industry.\n\nPDCA offers online education and an accreditation program at Contractor College. Publications created by PDCA have been recognized by other professional organizations for training purposes and reference.\n\nPDCA has connected with a variety of groups to provide services to the painting and decorating profession. Some examples of these initiatives have focused on improving occupational safety and health, and the role of women in painting\n\n"}
{"id": "1438284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438284", "title": "Paulo Maluf", "text": "Paulo Maluf\n\nPaulo Salim Maluf (; born September 3, 1931) is a Brazilian politician with a career spanning over four decades and many functions, including those of State Governor of São Paulo, Mayor of the City of São Paulo, Congressman and Presidential candidate. As of 2011, Maluf is on a second consecutive term as Federal Deputy. His political base is founded on populism and the provision of major public works.\n\nHis career has been plagued with substantial allegations of corruption, although he was only convicted by Brazilian Courts in 2017. He spent a few months in jail and is now under house arrest due to his poor health and advanced age.\n\nHe is the president of the local branch, in the state of São Paulo, of the right-wing Progressive Party of Brazil (PP), heir to the old National Renewal Alliance Party (ARENA). Interpol has issued a Red Notice to arrest Maluf, extradite him and try him in the United States on charges of conspiracy and criminal possession.\n\nPaulo Salim Maluf, the son of Lebanese Christian immigrants Salim Farah Maluf and Maria Stephan Maluf, was born in São Paulo, and graduated 1954 in engineering at the University of São Paulo (USP), where coincidentally he was a colleague of the late Mário Covas, another important Brazilian politician who would later become one of his biggest political rivals.\n\nAt the time a self-acknowledged playboy with a taste for fast-racing sportscars, Maluf entered professional politics thanks to his family's friendship with the then military president Artur da Costa e Silva, with whom he shared a common interest in Horse racing bets. Banking on this friendship, he was to be appointed mayor of São Paulo in 1969, replacing the very popular Faria Lima. In a manner very similar to New York’s Robert Moses, he suspended the construction of the São Paulo Metro and built one of the most controversial constructions of Brazil: Costa e Silva elevated expressway, also known as \"Minhocão\" (“Big Earthworm” in Portuguese). This expressway is seen as responsible for the degradation of a great area of São Paulo’s downtown by placing a high-traffic elevated road in the middle of a residential area and is considered as the hallmark of the military dictatorship's – and Maluf's – authoritarian, road enhancement and private-car-friendly urban policies in São Paulo – its building being made possible only by the impossibility of a public reaction to it on the surrounding community's side.\n\nIn 1972, following his mayorship, he served as secretary of transport of the state of São Paulo. He would then dispute a convention of the dictatorship's ruling party, ARENA – which was supposed to be a rubber-stamping caucus aimed at choosing as official \"candidate\" to the state government the former governor Laudo Natel. Maluf, however, succeed in being appointed official candidate for the following indirect elections by the State Legislative – something he did by means of abundant personal (and generous) promises to the convention's members – being afterwards elected governor for the state of São Paulo in 1978.\n\nDuring his ensuing term (1979–1983), Maluf used his position for advertising his prospective candidacy to the Presidency in the forthcoming 1985 indirect elections, by means mostly of schemes such as donation of ambulances to impoverished municipalities in Northeastern Brazil, as well as decorating influential people with the State's chief decoration – having them flown to São Paulo free of charge and lodged in luxury hotels before the official decoration ceremony. He also spent wildly in public works, including in some schemes of doubtful validity, such as in an eventually failed plan to move the state's capital city. It was because of such schemes that one of the most notable accusations of corruption against him emerged, concerning the oil company Paulipetro. This was a state company founded by Maluf during his tenure as governor with the purpose of digging the state for oil and which consumed around US$500 million whilst drilling 21 holes and finding nothing but a few pockets of natural gas and water. By then, Maluf had already fostered a reputation \"for engaging in corrupt machine politics\".\n\nIn 1982, he was elected federal deputy with a then national record 672 629 votes and came to stand as the military's preferred presidential candidate for the 1985 presidential elections – the last to be held by means of an Electoral College – where he stood a good chance of winning. His overweening strategy, however, estranged him from most of the party bosses – the civilian caucus which had provided political support to the military dictatorship in the last twenty years. That caused his PDS party (as the current PP was known at the time) to splinter into the PFL, a move that made good the mutual alienation between the ruling military scheme and its civilian base, something which resulted in the election of opposition candidate Tancredo Neves.\n\nSince then, Maluf only managed to get himself elected to the Executive once, in 1992, again as mayor of São Paulo, despite his participation in nearly every gubernatorial and mayoral election for São Paulo state and São Paulo city, with the exception of 1989 when he was a presidential candidate in the first direct presidential elections since 1960 – in what was a disastrous campaign, remembered in Brazilian political lore only because of Maluf's \"antic\", said at a speech made to Medical Faculty students in Belo Horizonte: declaring himself favourable to capital punishment in cases of rape followed by murder, he said jokingly that \"if one has sexual urges, that's okay; rape, but do not kill!\" (\"estupra mas não mata\"). Nevertheless, Maluf remained a regional political force in São Paulo, the election of Celso Pitta as São Paulo city mayor being directly attributed to his endorsement. When he ended his last mayoral term in 1996, he was considered the best mayor São Paulo had ever had up until then, receiving an 80% approval rate. In 2011, a survey by the Datafolha research firm, after asking, again, a sample of São Paulo locals about who would be the best mayor the city had ever had, obtained the result that Maluf stood first with 47% of the sample's preferences.\n\nSuch high rates of local approval stand as a reflection of the fact that Maluf was able to forge himself a successful career in post-dictatorship Brazil, despite his perennial reputation for shady deals and for an unsavory personality pointing directly to his former connections to the authoritarian régime. This has led various scholars to try to explain his political resilience. To some, this resilience is of an ideological nature: having his career nurtured in a right-wing military dictatorship, Maluf came to stand for a kind of reactionary activism, especially strong among small businesspeople and the self-employed, whose hallmark consisted \"in the refusal to admit the social character of social problems\", proposing instead a heavy-handed approach to them. In the words of the philosopher Marilena Chaui, writing in the mid-1980s, \"malufismo\" stood for the privatization of political power: \"a fringe form of the [military] dictatorship as it turned from raw force into mob rule\".\n\nHowever, one of the consequences of Pitta's disastrous administration in São Paulo, was that it left the São Paulo municipality mired in debt, as such drawing attention to Maluf's and his former protégé's management practices: in the words of a Brazilian professor at the end of Pitta's term, \"Sao Paulo's corruption has been transformed into a public horror from the whispered-about horror it always was\". That called eventually for judicial scrutiny of Maluf's policies, especially his public works, his relentless extension of \"the city's [São Paulo's] unmitigating concrete sprawl\". One notable example of the allegations of corruption that surfaced around Maluf was the Ayrton Senna tunnel, which passes underneath Ibirapuera Park and cost more, per kilometer, than the Channel Tunnel (it is alleged that the tunnel cost over US$400 million more than it should). Under dispute is Maluf's personal wealth, which critics attribute to his involvement in corruption scandals; supporters, conversely, point to a legitimate origin of such wealth in his family's companies – namely the mamoooth plywood trust Eucatex.\n\nMaluf was also part of an extensive investigation, by a Parliamentary Inquiry Committee set up in 2003, regarding money laundering involving bank accounts held by him and his family in Jersey (one of the Channel Islands). He has been convicted of corruption multiple times, but only in 2001 was the sentence final, with no possibility of appeal. At the time, he was forced to pay approximately R$500.000 to the state. Many of his alleged crimes cannot be prosecuted, due to the nature of the Brazilian statute of limitations. Even if he were to be convicted, there would be serious questions about whether he would serve jail time, as he is over 70 years of age.\n\nIn early September 2005, Paulo Maluf and his son Flávio Maluf were temporarily arrested by the Brazilian Federal police, under the charge of intimidating witnesses of an ongoing investigation. They were only incarcerated for a few weeks. So notorious is Maluf's reputation that in Brazil the verb \"malufar\" was created, meaning \"to steal public money\". This verb is also sometimes used outside Brazil, with one example being the French newspaper \"Le Monde\". \n\nIn the 2006 elections, Maluf ran for a seat in the Brazilian Chamber of Deputies, being elected as the candidate for the federal legislature with a national record in terms of ballots cast personally for a candidate to the federal legislature in this particular election (739,837). He was reelected again in 2010, with something around 497,000 ballots cast for him. His 2010 bid for reelection was fraught with legal doubts, as a recent federal statute (Complementary Law 135/2010, commonly known as \"Lei Ficha Limpa\" or \"Clean Record Act\") allowed electoral courts to refuse to register the candidacies of people already found guilty by a higher, collegiate court (possibility of further appeals notwithstanding); however, as the Brazilian STF decided in March 2011 that the \"Clean Record Act\" did not apply to the 2010 elections, according to the principle of anteriority (no offence being punished when defined by a non-previously existing law, and a Brazilian electoral law must be in force at least a year before the election is held), all charges against Maluf's registration and subsequent office-taking were eventually dropped. During the 2014 elections, Maluf stood again as a congressional candidate, but his candidacy was this time denied acceptance by a 4-to-3 decision of the TSE. Pending a recourse to the STF, Maluf was allowed to campaign and to receive ballots cast for him in October 5, 2014, but such votes are legally regarded as null until - and if - his candidacy is declared as lawful. Were this to happen, his 2014 voting would make him the eighth most voted candidate for the Federal Legislature in the State of São Paulo, with 246,446 ballots.\n\nOn March 9, 2007, Robert M. Morgenthau of the Manhattan's District Attorney's office issued an indictment against Paulo Maluf for money laundering in relation to a kickback and inflated invoice scheme that allegedly stole $11.6m from a Brazilian road contract project totaling $140 million. From November 1997 to May 1999 the money passed through an account at the Safra National Bank of New York and was secretly controlled by Maluf. This indictment was maintained by a New York judge on April 25, 2012, who dismissed a petition from the Malufs, Paulo and Flávio, who sought a court order to toss out the indictment.\n\nAlso refused by the same judge was the Malufs' bid for having lifted their March 2010 inclusion in the Red notice of Interpol, which makes them subject to arrest and extradition in 181 countries. As this arrest warrant is not valid in Brazil because the Brazilian Constitution does not allow for the extradition of Brazilian citizens, its practical meaning is that the Malufs are to be arrested if they travel outside Brazil.\n\nIn addition, Maluf and his son Flávio were sentenced to three years in prison (along with a two-year sentence for his wife Sylvia) in France in 2016.\n\nOn 20 December 2017, after being convicted of corruption by the Supreme Court of Brazil and after a few attempts to challenge that conviction by means of internal appeals within the Supreme Court, Maluf surrendered to Brazilian police, to begin his prison sentence as ordered. On 30 March 2018 he was released from prison under house arrest on humanitarian grounds, due to his advanced age and poor health. He currently remains under house arrest and, as ordered by the Brazilian Supreme Court, in August 2018 the Chamber of Deputies of Brazil officially declared that, as a result of his conviction, Maluf lost his Federal Deputy seat.\n"}
{"id": "2100494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100494", "title": "Per Bergsland", "text": "Per Bergsland\n\nSgt Per Bergsland (17 January 1918 – 9 June 1992) was a Norwegian POW in the German POW camp Stalag Luft III and one of only three men to escape to freedom in the \"Great Escape\".\n\nDuring in the 1930s Bergsland competed in orienteering, representing the club IL Heming. In 1939 he placed second at the individual Norwegian championship in orienteering held at Modum. He was born in Bærum, but resided at Ullernåsen.\n\nPer Bergsland served as an instructor at flight school in Canada before he transferred to the RAF Ferry Command, where he was assigned to fly with a combat unit. As a member of No. 332 Squadron RAF (332 Sqn) stationed at North Weald airfield, Bergsland's Supermarine Spitfire Mk.Vb, (serial no AB269, coded AH:D) was shot down by a German Focke-Wulf Fw 190 during the Dieppe Raid on 19 August 1942. After arriving at the POW camp, he gave his name as \"Peter Rockland\" (\"Per\" = Petrus, meaning rock in Greek, and \"Berg\" meaning mountain or rock in Norwegian), in order to protect his family in Norway from German reprisals.\n\nIn what later became known as the \"Great Escape\", he was escapee #43 among the 76 prisoners of war who managed to escape from the camp via tunnel with another Norwegian pilot, escapee #44 Jens Müller,\n\nBergsland and Müller made it to the nearby town, where they caught a train to Stettin in Germany (now: Szczecin, Poland). At the port, the pair were snuck onto a Swedish ship by friendly sailors and made it to the safety of Gothenburg. There, they met the British consulate, who arranged travel by train to Stockholm, where they were flown to Scotland from Bromma airport. From there they were sent by train to London and shortly afterwards to 'Little Norway' in Canada.\n\nIn total, only three POWs from Stalag Luft III made it to neutral countries and freedom. \n\nThe third escapee was the Dutchman Bram van der Stok, who crossed most of occupied Europe and escaped to Spain with the help of the French resistance.\n\nThe remaining 73 escapees were captured. Adolf Hitler wanted to execute them all, but Hermann Göring persuaded him not to: in the end, fifty were shot as an example. The remaining 23 were held in the custody of the Gestapo before being sent off to other camps. 17 were returned to Stalag Luft III, four were sent to Sachsenhausen, and two to Colditz Castle.\n\nIn 1946, Per Bergsland began as a pilot in Fred Olsen Air Transport. He later became Chief Pilot and Operational Manager. Per Bergsland became CEO of Fred Olsen Air Transport in 1968 and CEO of Widerøe from 1970 to 1981.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55485613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55485613", "title": "Ray O'Rourke (businessman)", "text": "Ray O'Rourke (businessman)\n\nRaymond Gabriel O'Rourke, KBE, HONFREng, C.Eng., FIEI, FICE (born January 1947) is an Irish businessman, the chairman and CEO of the construction multinational Laing O'Rourke.\n\nO'Rourke was born in January 1947. A native of County Leitrim, Ireland, he runs the privately owned Laing O'Rourke with his brother Des, and owns 55% of the company. O'Rourke \"started as a 'pony boy' carrying muck out from under London as the Victoria Line was being constructed.\" His estimated net worth was €800 million as of 2015.\n\nHe has honorary doctorates from the Dublin Institute of Technology, and Queen's University, Belfast.\n\nO'Rourke purchased the construction company Swift Structures, owned by his brothers-in-law, Jim and Matt Halligan from County Mayo. He then called in the receivers. His son, Cathal, works for Laing O'Rourke.\n"}
{"id": "2360979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2360979", "title": "Supervisory board", "text": "Supervisory board\n\nA supervisory board or supervisory committee, often called \"board of directors\", is a group of individuals chosen by the stockholders of a company to promote their interests through the governance of the company and to hire and supervise the executive directors and CEO.\n\nCorporate governance varies between countries, especially regarding the board system. There are countries that have a one-tier board system (like the U.S.) and there are others that have a two-tier board system like Germany.\n\nIn a one-tier board, all the directors (both executive directors as well as non-executive directors) form one board, called the board of directors.\n\nIn a two-tier board there is an executive board (all executive directors) and a separate supervisory board (all non-executive directors).\n\nGerman corporation law, the \"Aktiengesetz\", requires all public companies (\"Aktiengesellschaften\") to have two boards:\na management board called a \"Vorstand\" and a supervisory board called an \"Aufsichtsrat\".\n\nIn Germany the supervisory board of large corporations is composed of 20 members, 10 of whom are elected by the shareholders, the other 10 being employee representatives. The supervisory board oversees and appoints the members of the management board and must approve major business decisions.\n\nWhen a German company has between 500-2,000 employees, the minimum of members a board can consist of is three, and the maximum is 21. The number of members has to be divisible by three, as stated in the law. In such companies, the workers select one-third of the supervisory board.\n\nWhen it comes to internal elections the chairman of supervisory board, the \"Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender\", has two votes in case of a draw.\n\nThe supervisory board, in theory, is intended to provide a monitoring role. However, the appointment of supervisory board members has not been a transparent process and has therefore led to inefficient monitoring and poor corporate governance in some cases (Monks and Minow, 2001).\nThe discussion about whether a one-tier or a two-tier board system leads to better corporate governance is ongoing in Germany and many other countries. Improvements in corporate governance are often the result of shareholders (such as active private investors or activist investment funds) holding boards (whether one- or two-tier) of companies in which they invest to account.\n\nAnother example of a two-tier board system: Mainland China\n\nIn China's corporation law, the so-called (中华人民共和国公司法), it stipulates a limited liability company (有限责任公司) to have: a board of directors (董事会) and a board of supervisors (监事会).\nRegarding the Chinese requirements of a board of supervisors, under Articles 52 to 57 of the Company Law of the People's Republic of China:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58883600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58883600", "title": "Tan Wee Beng", "text": "Tan Wee Beng\n\nTan Wee Beng (born 14 February 1977) is a Singaporean businessman and commodity broker currently on a most wanted list maintained by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for money laundering. \n\nA graduate of Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Tan serves as the director of Wee Tiong and the managing director of WT Marine. In 2011, he was named the Emerging Entrepreneur of the Year by Ernst & Young. Under his leadership, annual revenue at Wee Tiong reportedly grew by some 131 percent in ten years to more than USD$300m in 2015.\n\nOn 25 October 2018, the United States Department of Justice officially filed charges against Tan for his \"conspiring to use the U.S. financial system to conduct millions of dollars’ worth of transactions to finance shipments of goods to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea\". At the same time, the United States Department of the Treasury announced sanctions against Tan and the two companies under his leadership. Tan categorically denied the criminal allegations.\n\nThe \"South China Morning Post\" described Tan as a \"Ferrari-loving entrepreneur\" based on his alleged penchant for sports cars. According to his \"Business Times\" profile, Tan is also a member of the London-based Refined Sugar Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "37017398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37017398", "title": "The Coming Jobs War", "text": "The Coming Jobs War\n\nThe Coming Jobs War is a book by Gallup Chairman Jim Clifton.\n\nClifton claims that a lack of innovation is not the problem, but rather a lack of entrepreneurship.\n\nDeepak Chopra wrote that \"The Coming Jobs War\" is \"excellent and timely\" and Charles M. Blow in the New York Times commenting the book is \"fascinating - and frightening.\" \n"}
{"id": "23130427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23130427", "title": "The International Customer Service Institute", "text": "The International Customer Service Institute\n\nThe International Customer Service Institute (TICSI) is an international partnership organisation to enable the recognition and sharing of global best practice in customer service. It was founded in 2005 operating out of London and Dubai and has developed The International Standard for Service Excellence (TISSE).\nIt has regional Certification Partners in the UK, India, Australia, New Zealand and the Middle East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1863821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863821", "title": "Town &amp; Country Surf Designs", "text": "Town &amp; Country Surf Designs\n\nTown & Country Surf Designs (also known as T&C Surf) is a world recognized manufacturer of surfboards. T&C's origins began in 1971 with a single store founded by Craig Sugihara in Pearl City, Hawaii. The company soon expanded into a full line of surfwear and surfing accessories and now has retail shops throughout the world in countries such as Japan, Australia, and Peru.\n\nIn 1976, Tak Kawahara became the co-owner of Town & Country (T&C) Surfboard’s wholesale division and developed the apparel brand, which became one of the top five in the beach and active surfwear industry. During his tenure at T&C he expanded the brand’s product line by introducing surf watches, beach sandals and school stationery accessories, all of which were the first of its kind in the surfing industry. T&C was also the first surf label to take production off shore. Tak continues to consult with many surf companies on product design, production processes, marketing, sales and operations. \n\nIn the 1980s, T&C became famous for their shirt designs featuring \"Da' Boys,\" surfing cartoon characters designed by Steve Nazar. The most famous of these was Thrilla Gorilla, a surfing anthropomorphic gorilla. \nIn 1988, LJN released a game on the NES based on the store, entitled \"\". A sequel focusing on Thrilla Gorilla (\"\") followed in 1992, before the character designs disappeared until re-launching as part of the Thrilla Krew brand in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57525838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57525838", "title": "Veselin Jevrosimović", "text": "Veselin Jevrosimović\n\nVeselin Jevrosimovic (; born 1966) is an influential businessman in Serbia who is known for being the owner and chairman of the IT company ComTrade Group. Referred to as the “Serbian Bill Gates”, he also owns the digital media publication Telegraf.rs, headquartered in Belgrade, and is the president of the Athletic Association of Serbia.\n\nBorn in Belgrade to a working-class family, Jevrosimovic was a sprinter for the national junior track and field team. He then studied electrical engineering in Serbia and management at the University of Florida. \nIn addition to living in the United States, he resided in Düsseldorf, Germany for 8 years. He was previously married to Ines Pokimica and they have one daughter. His second wife is Anja Aleksic with whom he has a son. In 2013, a bomb was thrown at one of his homes in Serbia. He also owns real estate in Miami.\n\nJevrosimovic's career in technology began in 1986, when he became co-owner of a business that distributed IT equipment in Germany. Starting in 1991, he was a partner for five years in CHS Electronics, before leaving to found the Serbian company ComTrade Group in 1996. The firm is mostly known for selling computers and tablets, having come up with the first Serbian desktop and notebook in 2006. However, in addition to hardware, ComTrade currently focuses on offering software solutions to institutions and corporations. According to Jevrosimovic, his company's specialty is software development for large storage systems, as well as producing on-line games of chance.\n\nComTrade wrote the code for the warehouse robots used at Amazon.com. It also developed the software infrastructure at Ryanair and various luggage transport systems. In 2015, the company joined CERN as an associate member and now manages the nuclear research lab's database. In 2016, the firm partnered with Citrix to develop management packs for their platforms. Additionally, ComTrade has the largest artificial intelligence division in South Eastern Europe.\n\nThe company has offices in New York, San Francisco, Budapest, Ireland and the Philippines. In 2008, it acquired the Slovenian software firm Hermes Softlab. In 2014, ComTrade Group launched the Tesla brand of tablets, smartphones and TVs. In 2016, ComTrade Software, a subsidiary of ComTrade Group, launched its international headquarters in Boston. In 2017, Jevrosimovic opened the parent company's 18th office in the city of Dubai, as well as a technology center in Cacak. Comtrade employs 1,200 software engineers and has been a member of the World Economic Forum since 2009.\n\nIn addition to his IT services company, Jevrosimovic owns a private college in Serbia that trains software engineers. He has also been president of the Athletic Association of Serbia since 2009, building 15 stadiums and organizing the 2017 European Athletics Championship. In 2012, he became a member of Serbia's Olympic Committee. As owner of Telegraf.rs, Jevrosimović regularly contributes to a column for the technology section of the Serbian digital newspaper. Additionally he owns the Majik Cafe in Belgrade, which was designed by Karim Rashid.\n\nIn 2008, Jevrosimović became the first Serb to be recognized as an honorary citizen of Boston, for his company's contributions to the city's economy. As for awards, he has been recognized for being a \"Top Manager of Southeastern Europe\", an \"IT Industry Legend (Monte Carlo)\", and the \"Most Innovative Investor in Southeastern Europe\". In 2017, Jevrosimovic attended the inauguration of American President Donald Trump.\n"}
{"id": "8826313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8826313", "title": "Viktor Ivanov", "text": "Viktor Ivanov\n\nViktor Petrovich Ivanov (, born May 12, 1950, Novgorod, Soviet Union) is a Russian politician and businessman, former KGB officer, who served in the KGB Directorate of Leningrad and its successors in 1977–1994. He was the Director of The Federal Narcotics Service of Russia from 2008 until 2016.\n\nIn 1987–1988 as a KGB officer he took part in the Soviet war in Afghanistan. \n\nIn December 1990 together with Boris Gryzlov and Valentin Chuykin he founded the small-scale enterprise Blok engaged in various businesses and became its director.\n\nIn October 1994 he resigned from FSK and was appointed Chief of the Administrative Staff of the Saint Petersburg Mayor Office. In 1999 he succeeded Nikolai Patrushev as the Head of the Internal Security Department of Russia's FSB. Since January 5, 2000, he has been a Deputy Head of the Presidential Staff for personnel appointed by Vladimir Putin. Viktor Ivanov is considered one of Putin's closest allies.\n\nIn September 2001 Russia's Prime Minister appointed Ivanov representative of the state in the Boards of Directors of the Antei Corporation and Almaz Scientific Industrial Corporation, developing and producing air defence systems, including S-300. On November 22, 2001, he was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors of Almaz and initiated the merger of Almaz and Antei. Since June 2002 Ivanov has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the result of the merger, OJSC Almaz-Antei Air Defense Concern. \n\nSince November 4, 2004, he has also been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of JSC Aeroflot airline.\n\nSince May 15, 2008, he has been a Director of Russia’s Federal Service for the Control of Narcotics and a Chairman of State Anti-Narcotics Committee, which includes 29 Heads of Russian Ministries.\n\nIn 2010, when the State of California in the United States had a ballot initiative asking voters about the legalization of marijuana, Ivanov public spoke out against it. He flew to Los Angeles and Washington, D.C., to lobby against drug legalization, meeting with the Los Angeles mayor, Los Angeles county sheriff, and U.S. drug czar.\n\nIn 2015 Ivanov pointed out that Islamic State, like Boko Haram, is supported significantly through money made by trafficking Afghan heroin. He called out for a global alliance to liquidate drug production and develop alternative sources of income in drug-producing areas. Ivanov who was blacklisted by the United States in the aftermath of the 2014 Crimean Crisis also accused the United States of deliberately undermining international efforts of anti-drug cooperation.\n\nMarch 20th 2014, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) published that Victor Ivanov and 19 other men have been added to the Specially Designated Nationals List.\n"}
