{"id": "2271304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2271304", "title": "Air operations during the Greek Civil War", "text": "Air operations during the Greek Civil War\n\nAir operations during the Greek Civil War involved primarily the air forces of the United Kingdom, South Africa, and the government of Greece against ground elements of the ELAS and other anti-government forces.\n\nThe arrival of British forces to Greece in September 1944 brought with it the Royal Air Force. The airfield at Araxos became the first foothold, being captured on 23 September 1944 and many airfields around it were secured within a month, including Megara taken by parachute landings of 4 Para. Near Athens, Kalamaki ultimately became the center of RAF activity, renamed Hassani on 1 December 1944, as home for No. 337 Wing RAF, under which operated a number of squadrons:\n\n\nThese were bolstered by the arrival in November 1944 of No. 335 Squadron RHAF and No. 336 Squadron RHAF. Both of these were Greek manned units within the RAF and would become the first operational units of the Royal Hellenic Air Force. Both flew the Spitfire VB fighter.\n\nSedes was opened with the liberation of northern Greece and became the new home for No. 32 Sqn.\n\nOn 2 December 1944, tensions over the role of the EAM and ELAS parties in post-war government resulted in demonstration during which British forces opened fire, killing ten civilians. The response was attacks on police stations and thus RAF units began operations against ELAS and EAM targets, mostly around Athens. No. 73 Sqn, along with the newly arrived No. 94 Squadron RAF, used their Spitfires on strafing runs and light bombing was undertaken by No. 108 Sqn. Additional options were gained when a flight of Beaufighters of No. 39 Squadron RAF were attached to No. 108 Sqn., armed with RP-3 rockets. These were considered very effective and over the span of two weeks 105 targets (55 buildings, 19 command posts, 10 supply dumps, 2 radio stations, 12 transportation, and 7 artillery) were struck by these aircraft. The regular aircraft of No. 108 flew 265 sorties during December. The heavy bombers of No. 221 Sqn were primarily used in supply flights to the Sedes facility as well as various leaflet and illumination missions. Two actual bombing raids were carried out (both at night). The Greek Spitfire squadrons did not participate in the attacks, although the newly formed No. 13 Squadron RHAF did assist in leaflet operations.\n\nThe RAF suffered a major blow with the attack by ELAS troops on their facility at Kifisia, which was home to Allied Headquarters Greece, on 19 December 1944. The No. 2933 Squadron RAF Regiment defended strongly but was ultimately overrun with the capture of many British prisoners. No. 221 Sqn. conducted supply drops to these personnel during their march north. By 7 January 1945, Athens was secured, and a ceasefire negotiated on 11 January. While some fighting continued, British fighter squadrons were withdrawn by summer 1945. Hassani continued to be a hub of RAF operations however the arrival of No. 252 Wing RAF with three Douglas Boston V equipped units, No. 13 Squadron RAF, No. 18 Squadron RAF, and No. 55 Squadron RAF.\n\n1946 saw the official transfer of Greek manned RAF squadrons into the Royal Hellenic Air Force. In addition to the aforementioned Nos. 13, 335, and 336 Sqns., these also included the No. 355 Squadron RHAF with a variety of transport types, including the C-47, Avro Anson, and Wellington and the 345, 346, and 347 Flights using the Auster AOP and other utility aircraft for liaison.\n\nMeanwhile, government opposition was on the rise and the formation of the Democratic Army of Greece led to the loss of control of much of rural Greece. The Greek National Army responded with Operation Terminus, but this was a failure. March 1948 saw the RHAF enter the action with attacks on landing strips set up by Communist forces to receive aid from Albania and Yugoslavia. Involvement by the United States led to the launch of Operation Dawn in April 1948, and this was supported by RHAF units with a total of 641 sorties with the loss of one Spitfire plus damage to ten more. Dakotas were utilized for leaflet and supply operations. The operation was successful but the withdrawal to northern border regions limited RHAF effectiveness due to a five-mile stop line to avoid an international incident.\n\nOperation Coronis was launched in July 1948 against enemy forces in the Grammos Mountains with the support of Nos. 335 and 336 Sqns. operating from Yannina and Kozani. Additional aircraft included AT-6 Texan and Auster aircraft. Ultimate results were a draw as anti-government forces withdrew across the border to Albania. No. 337 Squadron RHAF had been formed with Spitfire IX aircraft, giving the RHAF three Spitfire units. For heavier bombing, Dakotas were jury-rigged with racks for bombs up to 500 lb each. RAF deHavilland Mosquito photo reconnaissance aircraft were reportedly used in the affair. RHAF flew 3,474 sorties during the operation, suffering one lost Spitfire plus a further 22 damaged.\n\nOperations in September 1948 centered on the Vitsi Mountains area, and were supported again by the RHAF. They were marked by better cooperation with GNA units and the first use of napalm, although this was not used heavily. These operations lasted through the end of the year, bringing the grand total of sorties for 1948 to 8,907 combat and 9,891 transport, with the loss of twelve airmen. A major attack at Florina by guerrilla forces was defeated with significant air support by the RHAF.\n\nAugust 1949 marked the final series of operations against the guerrilla forces, and again the RHAF played a large role in supporting government forces. In particular, during the final portion of the month, No. 336 Sqn. began employing its newly acquired Curtiss SB2C Helldiver aircraft, of which 40 had been acquired from the United States Navy. This operation resulted in the final destruction of opposition military resistance and resulted in a final ceasefire being signed. During August 826 sorties had been flown dropping 288 tons of bombs and firing 1935 rockets. Napalm was used again, with 114 such strikes being made.\n\n\nThe Royal Air Force maintained a sizable presence in Greece from the liberation of Greece in September 1944 through the creation of the RHAF in 1946.\n\n\nThe South African Air Force had a limited deployment to Greece which was withdrawn shortly before the end of World War II.\n\n\nThe Royal Hellenic Air Force was formed from Greek units of the RAF in 1946 and by the end of that year had assumed sole duties from the RAF for the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1187578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187578", "title": "Alan Bray", "text": "Alan Bray\n\nAlan Bray (13 October 1948 – 25 November 2001) was a British historian and gay rights activist. He was a Roman Catholic and had a particular interest in Christianity's relationship to homosexuality.\n\nBray was born in Hunslet, Leeds, to a working-class family. His mother died when he was 12, an event that profoundly affected his relationships. He attended secondary school in Leeds, where he met his lifelong partner Graham Wilson. He attended Bangor University and spent a year at an Anglican seminary before beginning a career in civil service.\n\nHe became involved with the Gay Liberation Front in the 1970s and actively campaigned for gay rights. His interest in sexual politics influenced his work on history, which culminated in two books. His second book, \"The Friend\", was published posthumously.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Caucus of the Gay and Lesbian Christian Movement, of which Bray was a member, instituted a series of Alan Bray Memorial Lectures on Catholic theology and homosexuality. British historians Michael Hunter, Miri Rubin, and Laura Gowing co-edited the book \"Love, Friendship and Faith in Europe, 1300–1800\" (Palgrave Macmillan, 2005), a collection of essays inspired by Bray's idea of finding some universal component of homosexuality within the experiences of intimacy and friendship without \"locating a discourse that identifies persons as homosexual.\" Nick Rumens's \"Queer Company: The Role and Meaning of Friendship in Gay Men's Work Lives\" (Ashgate, 2011), is also inspired by Alan Bray's scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "7424684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7424684", "title": "Amiya Kumar Bagchi", "text": "Amiya Kumar Bagchi\n\nAmiya Kumar Bagchi (born 1936) is a distinguished Indian political economist. His contributions have spanned economic history, the economics of industrialisation and deindustrialisation, and development studies from an overall Marxist perspective, incorporating insights from other schools of radical political economics, including left Keynesianism. Among Marxists, he is known for his extensive contributions to theories of imperialism and underdevelopment.\n\nBorn in 1936 in the small village of Jadupur in Murshidabad district in West Bengal, Bagchi received his higher education in Presidency College, Kolkata and Trinity College, University of Cambridge. In 1963 he was awarded the PhD degree at Cambridge University for a thesis titled \"Private investment and partial planning in India\".\n\nHe is married to the feminist critic and activist Jasodhara Bagchi.\n\nHis academic career began when he started teaching in Presidency College, Kolkata. In the 1960s, he taught in the Faculty of Economics in Cambridge (where he was Fellow of Jesus College), but resigned his post in 1969, to resume his academic career in Presidency College, Kolkata.\n\nIn 1974 he joined the newly founded Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta, which went on to become one of the most productive and globally famous research institutions in India.\n\nBagchi has specialised in the history of Indian banking and finance, and acted as Official Historian of the State Bank of India (SBI) from 1976 to 1998; he played a leading role in ensuring that the unique archives of SBI are preserved for posterity.\n\nAfter retiring as Reserve Bank of India professor from the Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta in 2001, he became the founder-director of the Institute of Development Studies, Kolkata, a multidisciplinary centre of excellence in the social sciences, which is affiliated with the University of Calcutta, and is promoted by the government of West Bengal. His famous discourse on quasi-capitalist banking has been recognised a masterpiece by Bloomberg L.P.. He spearheads research in development studies in an array of areas, notably banking and finance, public health, labour studies, information and communication studies, gender studies, education, and the sociology of literature.\n\nHe has been Visiting Professor in international academic institutions such as Cambridge University, École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, Cornell University, Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Naples University, and University of Bristol.\n\nThe professional awards and honours Bagchi has received include:\n\nBagchi has authored over 250 academic articles and has authored and edited numerous books and monographs.\n\nThe books he has authored include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9031558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9031558", "title": "Ananyino culture", "text": "Ananyino culture\n\nThe Ananyino culture is an archeological culture of the late 8th to 3rd centuries BCE in present-day Tatarstan, Russian Federation. The name comes from the burials first discovered near the village Ananyino (Ананьино) in the vicinity of Elabuga, excavated by P.V.Alabin and I.V.Shishkin in 1858.\n\nIt is located in the territory of the Middle Volga (from the Vetluga River to the town of Ulyanovsk) and the Kama River basin. In the southeast the culture stretches along the lower course of the Belaya River, from its mouth up to the town of Birsk (fortresses Novokabanov, Kakrykul, Peter-Tau, Anachev, Tra-Tau, Trikol, Novobiktov, Birsk settlement, Tash-Elga burials). In the Volga-Kama area and more northerly the culture extends to the Pechora River and Subarctic Ural.\n\nIn the Volga and Lower Kama areas the traces of the Ananyino Culture fade in the 6th century BCE, in other areas in the 3rd to 2nd centuries BCE.\n\nUnfortified settlements, fortresses and burials have been found. In the settlements and fortresses the remains of surface timber dwellings (10×5 m - 12×4 м) were found. In the Konetsgor settlement long houses divided into sections with hearths located on their longitudinal axis were found. The population was engaged in cattle breeding and agriculture, as well as hunting and fishing. Well developed were both iron and nonferrous metallurgy, bronze casting and forging, weaving, spinning, bone and leatherwork, and pottery. Typical ceramics are round-bottomed with indented and rope decorations. In the settlements are many bone utensils, mainly for hunting and fishing, like arrowheads of various forms, harpoons, mattock tips.\n\nThe burial sites are without mounds and sometimes very extensive. The older Akhmylov cemetery contained more than 1100 burials. The earliest of them had stone stelae with depictions of weaponry beside the burial. In the 6th or 5th century BC they were replaced with stelae above the tombs, sometimes with male images with or without weapons. Inhumations in pit tombs, covered with timber chambers predominate. Single burials prevailed, but paired and collective, dismembered (reburials) and partial (skulls) burials are also known. Burials were in some cases accompanied by meat offerings (horsemeat for men and beef for women), and various objects, including clay vessels. In the male burials are usually found weapons and work tools including spears, kelts, swords, daggers, arrowheads, wedges, and ornaments. In the female tombs are ornaments including bracelets, neckrings, sets of pendants and tubules sown on a leather headband). In the early period bronze and iron tools and weapons co-existed with flint arrowheads and scrapers.\n\nThe Ananyino culture was greatly influenced by the Colchian-Koban cultures of the Caucasus region, the Scythians, and the eastern nomadic cultures of the Eurasian steppes. Especially significant were the links of the Ananyino people with the Caucasus cultures, represented by numerous imported products. It was determined that technological methods for iron processing ascend to the Caucasian traditions.\n\nThe Ananyino people apparently belonged to the Finno-Ugric group. In the north-eastern part of the basin formed the Proto-Permians, in its western part tribes of Volga Finns.\n\n"}
{"id": "51384056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51384056", "title": "Ancient Iberian coinage", "text": "Ancient Iberian coinage\n\nThe history of ancient Iberian coinage begins as early as the fifth century BC, but widespread minting and circulation in the Iberian peninsula did not begin until late in the third century, during the Second Punic War. Civic coinages - emissions made by individual cities at their own volition - continued under the first two and a half centuries of Roman control until ending in the mid-first century AD. Some non-civic coins were minted on behalf of Roman emperors during this period and continued to be minted after the cessation of the civic coinages. After the cessation of the civic coinages, these Imperial coins were the only coins minted in Iberia until the coins of the Suebi and Visigoths.\n\nAncient Iberia was connected to the eastern and central Mediterranean, and so there are links to the Greek, Roman and Punic (Carthaginian) civic coinages. Yet there are also many points of difference that reflect dynamics within Iberia itself.\n\nSmall numbers of coins minted in other parts of the Mediterranean had circulated along the eastern coast of Spain perhaps from the sixth century, with an uptick from the fourth century.\nThese coins were part of a colonial frontier economy in which indigenous towns traded wines, ceramics and finished goods primarily for raw materials: precious metals, wood, food products and perhaps slaves.\nSome coins may also have been earned by Iberian mercenaries fighting overseas.\n\nThroughout the western Mediterranean, new coinage traditions appear around the 4th century. Non-Greek cities in the Italian Peninsula (including Rome) begin minting in the 4th and early 3rd century.\nCarthage minted from the mid-4th century, as with the Greek tradition following earlier emissions from Phoenician colonies in Sicily.\nIn the north of the Iberian peninsula, the Massiliote colonies of Emporion and Rhode minted mainly silver coins from the mid-fifth and late fourth centuries, respectively.\nFurther to the south, the Phoenician colonies of Ebusus and Gadir minted bronze coins from the second half of the fourth and early third centuries, respectively.\nAdditionally, the prominent Iberian town of Arse (Roman Saguntum) minted bronze and silver coins from the middle of the fourth century.\n\nWithin Iberian society, wealth could take a variety of forms, sometimes regionally specific.\nThe discovery of mixed hoards containing coins, jewellery and precious metal bullion suggests that coins were being used as part of a range of ways to store, display and exchange wealth.\nFor example, a late fifth century hoard found in a wall in the Iberian town of Puig de la Nau contained four gold earrings, a gold stud, a silver bracelet and a silver coin from Emporion.\nIn many such hoards, some of the silver has been cut into small pieces, which can be related to finds of weights and scales and suggests that this metal circulated as a form of 'proto-money'.\n\nPart of the Second Punic War was fought in the Iberian Peninsula and coins were used by combatants on all sides.\nThis led to a widespread and dramatic increase in the number of places where coins were minted and the amount of coin in circulation.\n\nTo fund their war effort, the Carthaginians minted gold, electrum, silver and bronze coins.\nThese coins may have been minted in the Barcid 'capital' of Carthago Nova or perhaps were minted simply in Carthaginian military camps.\nIn addition to these coins and those of Gadir and Ebusus, Phoenician colonies along the south coast such as Malaka and Sexi also minted bronze coins.\n\nAlong the east coast and particularly in the northeast a great number of towns minted silver drachmas.\nSome of these coins imitate the drachmas of Emporion or Massalia, while others have Iberian legends, a few of which can be related to towns or peoples but many of which are unknown or illegible.\nThis silver coinage is generally seen as minted by the pro-Roman side, particularly as little Roman coin seems to have reached the Peninsula given the concurrent fighting in the Italian Peninsula.\nBut given the fluid situation of the war, particularly in the early years, some of these emissions may have been minted to aid the Carthaginian cause.\n\nAfter this war, and the subsequent Roman annexation of much of the Peninsula, many indigenous towns and a few Roman colonial towns minted civic coins over the second and early first centuries.\nThe main catalogue for these coins is the \"Corpus nummum hispaniae ante Augusti aetatem\" (CNH) but see also the more recent \"Diccionario de cecas y pueblos hispánicos\".\nThe indigenous towns in Hispania Citerior minted coins with Iberian scripts and either Iberian or Celtiberian legends.\nThese coins were often typologically similar, with a heroic male portrait on the obverse and a horseman on the reverse - the so-called \"jinete\" (horseman) coins.\nThe areas in which coins were minted and circulating expanded as Roman control was spread into the interior of the Peninsula.\nThe legends and iconography on coins from Hispania Ulterior were more diverse, with Latin legends common but also some Iberian scripts while Punic continued to be used in the old Phoenician colonies along the south coast.\nHence although coins from this era are often called Iberian coins, this description does not cover all coins minted during the Republic.\nIndeed, a smaller number of Roman colonial towns minted in Latin, following Italian and Roman examples more closely. These include Valentia and Toletum. \nThe numbers of towns minting peaked in the last third of the second century and early first century, and then declined rapidly in the early first century, particularly in Hispania Citerior after the end of the Sertorian War.\n\nThe purpose of these coins is unclear.\nThey may be related to ad hoc Roman tribute demands or rents on land confiscated by Rome.\nBut the amounts minted are insufficient to represent regular taxation or legionary pay.\nWidely varying levels of production suggest that the reasons each town minted were diverse.\nSome coins seem tightly related to particular extractive or productive actitivites, such as mining camps in the south or fish-salting industries along the south coast.\nAs the decision to mint was taken by local communities, and many elements of the legends and iconography seem locally significant, there may have been a strong element of local pride and identity at stake. \nOnce in circulation, Iberian coins predominantly stayed within the region where they were minted although some did travel further afield.\nThe production of many bronze coins and even many fractions as well as high numbers of coins found throughout all different types of site, from large towns to small farms, suggest a wide range of everyday uses.\n\nFrom around the mid-first century BC, the number of towns emitting coins decreased and Latin legends were standardised throughout the Peninsula.\nCoins were mainly now emitted by more important towns that had received privileged juridical status from victorious Roman generals in the Civil Wars and then from the new Julio-Claudian emperors Augustus and Tiberius.\nMany of the coins emitted proclaim the new status of emitting towns as Roman coloniae or municipia, and individual civic iconography was used with strong similarities to that used in other Roman provinces and media.\nThese emissions are conventionally called (Roman) Provincial coins.\nThe main catalogue for these coins is Volume I of the \"Roman Provincial Coinage\" (RPC).\n\nA handful of mints in eastern Iberia did attempt to retain the jinete coins with bilingual Iberian and Latin legends, but this did not become popular.\nThe peak of these provincial emissions was under Augustus and Tiberius, and the last 'local' coins were emitted under the emperor Caligula, in the mid-first century AD.\nThis cessation of local coinage in the mid-first century AD was not unique to Hispania but occurred throughout the western Provinces.\nFrom that point on the only emissions in Roman Hispania were emissions from a few Imperial mints controlled by the emperor and used for purposes such as legionary pay.\n\nTwo main reasons are given for the provincial emissions.\nFirstly, the new municipia and coloniae wanted to advertise their status and Imperial favour.\nSecondly, these new constitutional forms came with state expenses. \nThese emissions may have been intended to partly meet such expenses.\nOnce these coins were in circulation, they were likely used in the broad range of roles coins played in Roman monetised economic life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "709299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709299", "title": "Annianus of Alexandria", "text": "Annianus of Alexandria\n\nAnnianus of Alexandria ( was a monk who flourished in Alexandria during the bishopric of Theophilus of Alexandria around the beginning of the fifth century. He criticized the world history of his contemporary monk Panodorus of Alexandria for relying too much on secular sources rather than biblical sources for his dates.\n\nAs a result, Annianus developed his own chronology which placed Creation on 25 March 5492 BC. This created the Alexandrian Era whose first day was the first day of the proleptic Alexandrian civil year in progress, 29 August 5493 BC. This year was eleven Paschal cycles of 532 years each before the Alexandrian year beginning 29 August 360, which itself was four 19-year cycles after the epoch of the Diocletian Era on 29 August 284. The former is known as the Era of Grace in the Coptic Church, whereas the latter is known as the Era of Martyrs. He was the first computist to recognize the 532-year cycle of Easters in the Julian calendar. This cycle is often attributed to Victorius of Aquitaine in 457, the first to recognize such a cycle in the West.\n\nNone of Annianus's writings have survived. He is principally known from the discussion of his works by George Syncellus during the 9th century, though lesser fragments appear elsewhere. Elijah of Nisibis cites him in his 11th-century \"Chronography\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25287133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25287133", "title": "Anywhere on Earth", "text": "Anywhere on Earth\n\nAnywhere on Earth (AoE) is a calendar designation which indicates that a period expires when the date passes everywhere on Earth. The last place on Earth where any date exists is on Howland and Baker islands, in the time zone (the West side of the International Date Line), and so is the last spot on the globe for any day to exist. Therefore, the day ends AoE when it ends on Howland Island.\n\nThe convention originated in IEEE 802.16 balloting procedures. At this point, many IEEE 802 ballot deadlines are established as the end of day using \"AoE\", for \"Anywhere on Earth\" as a designation. This means that the deadline has not passed if, anywhere on Earth, the deadline date has not yet passed.\n\nNote that the day's end AoE occurs at noon Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) of the following day, Howland and Baker islands being halfway around the world from the prime meridian that is the base reference longitude for UTC.\n\nThus, in standard notation this is:\n\n"}
{"id": "39291495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39291495", "title": "Babatunde Lawal", "text": "Babatunde Lawal\n\nBabatunde Lawal is an art historian and scholar of the arts of Nigeria. His research is focused on the visual culture of the Yoruba and its influences in the Americas. He is currently a professor of Art History at Virginia Commonwealth University.\n\nLawal was born and raised in Isale-Eko (Oju Olokun Street), a district of Lagos. Having been raised in Nigeria himself, Lawal's scholarship demonstrates the use of a theoretical model that draws heavily from first-person accounts of various Nigeria customs and art making practices. This sets him apart from the majority of European and American scholars of African art.\n\nIn his book on Gelede, Lawal writes: \"A number of scholars [...] have called for a new critical approach that will allow African traditions to be studied on their own terms, instead of being viewed through Eurocentric lenses... What is urgently needed, as Henry Gates has pointed out, is a method that enables a given culture 'to speak for itself about its nature and various functions, rather than to read it, or analyse it, in terms of... theories borrowed whole from other traditions, appropriated from without.'\"\n"}
{"id": "650383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650383", "title": "Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg", "text": "Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg\n\nAbbé Charles-Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg (8 September 1814 – 8 January 1874) was a noted French writer, ethnographer, historian and archaeologist. He became a specialist in Mesoamerican studies, travelling extensively in the region. \nHis writings, publications, and recovery of historical documents contributed much to knowledge of the region's languages, writing, history and culture, particularly those of the Maya and Aztec civilizations. However, his speculations concerning relationships between the ancient Maya and the lost continent of Atlantis inspired Ignatius L. Donnelly and encouraged the pseudo-science of Mayanism.\n\nHe was born in Bourbourg, a small town with many Flemish influences near Dunkirk, France, as the First French Empire was ending.\n\nAs a youth he went to Ghent in newly independent Belgium to study theology and philosophy. \nHe became interested in writing during his studies there, and in 1837 aged 23 he began contributing essays to a Parisian journal. He wrote several historical accounts (using a pseudonym), including one concerning Jerusalem. He published several novels of Romantic style which was then very much in vogue. One of these, \"Le Sérapéon\", received reviews which implied it had a very close resemblance to François-René de Chateaubriand's 1809 novel \"Les Martyrs\". Such near-allegations of plagiarism and inaccuracies in his works were to be made several times during his career.\n\nDespite such criticisms, his reputation as a notable young writer and intellectual continued to develop. He transferred his studies and residence to Rome, where in 1845 he was ordained into the Roman Catholic priesthood, at the age of 30.\n\nA year previously he had come to the attention of the Canadian Abbé, Léon Gingras, whom he had met (and apparently impressed) in Rome. Abbé Gingras entreated his friend and colleague the vicar-general of Quebec, Abbé Charles-Félix Cazeau, to have Brasseur de Bourbourg assigned to a job in the seminary there. Correspondence began in late 1844, with Abbé Gingras claiming that the seminary should \"...move heaven and earth to ensure that such a splendid bird does not escape us and fly to Montreal, where it would be so highly thought of\".\n\nA year later after having obtained his ordination, Brasseur de Bourbourg's job in Quebec was approved by the Archbishop, Joseph Signay, and in the autumn of 1845 he left Europe for the British colony of the Province of Canada, stopping briefly in Boston along the way.\n\nUpon his arrival in Quebec City he began work as a professor of ecclesiastical history at the seminary (the Séminaire de Québec, founded in 1663). After only a brief time however, his series of lectures was discontinued, for some unspecified reason.\n\nPerhaps having extra time, Brasseur de Bourbourg began a programme of research of the history of the archdiocese of Quebec, and in particular of its 17th-century founder, François de Laval, the first Roman Catholic Bishop of Quebec (after whom the seminary's later incarnation as a University, the Université Laval, is named). The results of his archival investigations were published in early 1846 as a biography of Laval. The contents of this pamphlet seemed to displease his Canadian colleagues somewhat, for a dispute began which made his position there uncertain, or at least uncomfortable. Also, he apparently disliked the harsh winter climate (to judge by some comments he made in the dedication of his later \"History of Canada\"), and may also have been a factor in his departure which was soon to ensue.\n\nHe left the seminary later in that year, returning to Boston where he found a job with the diocese of Boston. The then current Bishop, John Bernard Fitzpatrick, with whom he was evidently on better terms than with his previous superiors, made him vicar-general of the diocese.\n\nTowards the end of the year Brasseur de Bourbourg returned to Europe, to spend some time conducting research in the archives of Rome and Madrid, in preparation for a new project—travel to Central America.\n\nFrom 1848 to 1863 he travelled extensively as a missionary in many parts of Mexico and Central America.\n\nDuring these journeys he gave great attention to Mesoamerican antiquities and became well-versed in the then-current theories and knowledge about the history of the region and the Pre-Columbian civilisations whose sites and monuments remained, yet were little understood.\n\nUsing information he had collected during his time spent travelling there, as well as that compiled by other scholars of his time, he published during 1857–1859 a history of the Aztec civilization, containing what was then known or speculated about the former kingdom, which had been conquered some three hundred years previously by the Spanish conquistadores in alliance with local enemies of the Aztecs.\n\nHe also conducted research into the local languages and their transliteration into the Latin alphabet. Between 1861 and 1864 he edited and published a collection of documents in the indigenous languages.\n\nIn 1864 he was archaeologist of the French military expedition in Mexico, and his resulting work \"Monuments anciens du Mexique\" was published by the French Government in 1866.\n\nIn 1862 while searching through archives at the Royal Academy of History in Madrid for New World materials, he came across an abridged copy of a manuscript which had originally been written by the Spanish cleric Diego de Landa sometime around 1566. De Landa had been one of those charged with disseminating the Roman Catholic faith amongst the Maya peoples in Spain's new Central American possessions during the period after the Spanish conquest of Yucatán, and had lived there for several years. His manuscript (\"Relación de las Cosas de Yucatán\") had been written upon his enforced return to Spain, where he was charged with illegally or improperly conducting an Inquisition (he was later absolved, returning to the New World as the appointed Bishop of Yucatán). In the manuscript de Landa had recorded much information about the Maya peoples and customs, based on his own observations and discussions with Mayan informants. Brasseur de Bourbourg's main interest in the document, however, was a section in which de Landa reproduced what he termed \"an alphabet\" of the as-yet undeciphered Maya hieroglyphics, the writing system of the ancient Maya civilization. In this passage de Landa had annotated the Mayan symbols (or glyphs) which supposedly corresponded to the letters of the Spanish alphabet, as given to him by a Maya informant who he had quizzed. Brasseur de Bourbourg realised that this could prove to be basis of deciphering the Maya script, and he announced this discovery when republishing the manuscript (in a bilingual Spanish-French edition) in late 1863 with the title, \"Relation des choses de Yucatán de Diego de Landa\".\n\nHowever, upon initial analysis by Brasseur de Bourbourg and others, the so-called \"de Landa alphabet\" proved to be problematic and inconsistent, and these immediate attempts to use this alphabet as a kind of \"Rosetta Stone\" to read the glyphs failed. Nevertheless, Brasseur de Bourbourg's uncovering of this document and de Landa's alphabet would much later prove to be vital in the eventual decipherment of the Maya glyphs. Brasseur de Bourbourg's attempts, and those of others which followed, were misled insofar as they interpreted the signs alphabetically. When the signs were recognised to be mainly syllabic, significant progress was made.\n\nIn 1861 he published another significant work: a French translation of the Popol Vuh, a sacred book of the Quiché (K'iche') Maya people. He included a grammar of the K'iche' language and an essay on Central American mythology.\n\nBrasseur began to write about Atlantis in his publication \"Grammaire de la langue quichée\" (1862), in which he expressed his belief that the lost land described by Plato had existed with an advanced degree of civilization before the beginning of civilizations in Europe and Asia. He suggested that the origins of European and Persian words could be traced to indigenous languages of the Americas and that the ancient cultures of the New and Old Worlds had been in constant communication with one another.\n\nIn 1866, \"Monuments anciens du Mexique (Palenque, et autres ruines de l'ancienne civilisation du Mexique)\" was published with a text by Brasseur de Bourbourg accompanied by lavish illustrations by Jean-Frédéric Waldeck. Although Waldeck's depictions of the ruins at Palenque were based on first-hand knowledge, his artistic reconstructions and embellishments implied a close relationship between Maya art and architecture and that of Classical antiquity Greece and Rome. This was subsequently demonstrated to be spurious, but not before Waldeck's artwork had inspired speculations about contact between New and Old World civilizations, specifically via the lost continent of Atlantis.\n\nThese speculations were reinforced by Brasseur de Bourboug's own references to Plato's descriptions of the culture and society of Atlantis, which Brasseur believed was continued by ancient Maya civilization, in his book \"Quatre Lettres sur le Méxique\" (1868). In this publication, Brasseur de Bourbourg made extensive parallels between Maya and Egyptian pantheons and cosmologies, implying that they all had a common source on the lost continent of Atlantis. He developed these ideas further in his publication \"Quatre lettres sur le Mexique\" (1868), which presents a history of Atlantis based on his interpretation of Maya myths. His writings inspired Augustus Le Plongeon and also Ignatius L. Donnelly, whose book \"\" contains numerous references to Brasseur de Bourbourg's scholarship. However, an academic wrote in 1875 that not a single contemporary scholar accepted Brasseur de Bourbourg's theories about Atlantis.\n\nThe combination of Brasseur de Bourbourg's interests in spiritualism and these speculations about relations between the ancient Maya and Atlantis provided the basis for Mayanism.\n\nIn 1866, Brasseur de Bourbourg had an opportunity to examine an artefact in Madrid which was in the possession of a Spanish paleography professor named Juan de Tro y Ortolano, who had purchased it some six years earlier. This artefact was an old codex, a book made from paper-bark in the form of a folded screen of continuous pages, several metres in length when extended. The codex contained numerous signs and drawings, which Brasseur de Bourbourg was readily able to identify as being Mayan in origin, having seen and studied many similar markings and glyphs while in Central America.\n\nTro y Ortolano gave him permission to publish the codex in a reproduction, and Brasseur de Bourbourg gave it the name \"Troano Codex\" in his honour. His identification of the codex was significant, as it was the only third such Maya codex to have been uncovered (the second, the Codex Paris, had been discovered by the French scholar Léon de Rosny only a few years before). In particular, Brasseur de Bourbourg recognised its exceeding rarity, since de Landa's \"Relación\", which he had earlier rediscovered, gave an account of how he had ordered the destruction of all such Maya codices he could find, and many volumes had been burned.\n\nDuring 1869–1870 Brasseur de Bourbourg published his analyses and interpretations of the content of the Troano codex in his work \"Manuscrit Troano, études sur le système graphique et la langue des Mayas\". He proposed some translations for the glyphs recorded in the codex, in part based on the associated pictures and in part on de Landa's alphabet, but his efforts were tentative and largely unsuccessful.\n\nHowever, his translation would later inspire Augustus Le Plongeon's pseudo-science and speculation about the lost continent of Mu. The name \"Mu\" was actually used first by Brasseur de Bourbourg.\n\nA few years later, another Maya codex was found possessed by another collector, which became known as the \"Codex Cortesianus\" (in the belief that it had been in the possession of Hernán Cortés). When Léon de Rosny examined it later, he determined that it was actually a part of the Troano codex, the two parts having been separated at some indeterminate time in the past. The two parts were later rejoined and are known collectively as the Codex \"Madrid\" or \"Tro-Cortesianus\"; they remain displayed in Madrid.\nIn 1871 Brasseur de Bourbourg published his \"Bibliothèque Mexico-Guatémalienne\", a compendium of literature and sources associated with Mesoamerican studies.\n\nHis last article, \"Chronologie historique des Mexicains\" (1872) refers to the Codex Chimalpopoca and identifies four periods of world cataclysms that began about 10,500 BC and were the result of shifts of the Earth's axis (a concept related to pole shift theory).\n\nHe died at Nice at the beginning of 1874, at the age of 59.\n\nHis archaeological fieldwork, as well as his diligent collection, discovery and republication of source materials, proved to be very useful for subsequent Mesoamerican researchers and scholars. The interpretations and theories he advanced proved to be mostly inaccurate.\n\nA listing of his publications (either original works or reproductions of historical documents), by original publication date. The place of publication is annotated (in brackets), and the shorter or common name of the publication is bolded. The list is not necessarily complete.\nA collection of travel accounts and reports which Brasseur de Bourbourg sent to the French Minister for Education and Religion from Mexico, Guatemala and Spain is stored at the \"Archives Nationales\" (Paris), F17, 2942.\n\n"}
{"id": "18750766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18750766", "title": "Chronological summary of the 2008 Summer Olympics", "text": "Chronological summary of the 2008 Summer Olympics\n\nThis page contains a chronological summary of major events from the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China.\n\nFootball\n\nFootball\n\n\nEquestrian\n\nArchery\nBoxing\nFencing\nJudo\nShooting\nSwimming\nWeightlifting\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857628", "title": "Colombian conflict", "text": "Colombian conflict\n\nThe Colombian conflict began in the mid-1960s and is a low-intensity asymmetric war between Colombian governments, paramilitary groups, crime syndicates, and far-left guerrillas such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), and the National Liberation Army (ELN), fighting each other to increase their influence in Colombian territory. Two of the most important international actors that have contributed to the Colombian conflict are multinational companies and the United States.\n\nIt is historically rooted in the conflict known as \"La Violencia\", which was triggered by the 1948 assassination of populist political leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán, and in the aftermath of United States-backed strong anti-communist repression in rural Colombia in the 1960s that led liberal and communist militants to re-organize into FARC.\n\nThe reasons for fighting vary from group to group. The FARC and other guerrilla movements claim to be fighting for the rights of the poor in Colombia to protect them from government violence and to provide social justice through communism. The Colombian government claims to be fighting for order and stability, and seeking to protect the rights and interests of its citizens. The paramilitary groups claim to be reacting to perceived threats by guerrilla movements. Both guerrilla and paramilitary groups have engaged in drug trafficking and terrorism. All of the parties engaged in the conflict have been criticized for numerous human rights violations.\n\nAccording to a study by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 220,000 people have died in the conflict between 1958 and 2013, most of them civilians (177,307 civilians and 40,787 fighters) and more than five million civilians were forced from their homes between 1985 – 2012, generating the world's second largest population of internally displaced persons (IDPs). 16.9% of the population in Colombia has been a direct victim of the war. 2.3 million children have been displaced from their homes, and 45,000 children killed, according to national figures cited by Unicef. In total, one in three of the 7.6 million registered victims of the conflict are children, and since 1985, 8,000 minors have disappeared. A Special Jurisdiction for Peace will be created to investigate, clarify, prosecute and punish serious human rights violations and grave breaches of international humanitarian law which occurred during the armed conflict. Its purpose would be to satisfy victims' right to justice. A Special Unit was created to search for persons deemed as missing within the context of and due to the armed conflict.\n\nColombian President Juan Manuel Santos said that a peace deal with the FARC by 20 July 2016 would end the conflict with this organization if the talks which started in 2012 were successfully concluded. On 23 June 2016, the Colombian government and the FARC rebels signed a historic ceasefire deal, bringing them closer to ending more than five decades of conflict. However, on October 2, 2016, a majority of the Colombian public rejected the deal. In October 2016, Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to bring the country's more than 50-year-long civil war to an end. The Colombian government and the FARC on November 24 signed a revised peace deal and the revised agreement was to be submitted to Congress for approval. The House of Representatives unanimously approved the plan on November 30, a day after the Senate also gave its backing. The end of the civil war marked the first time that the Western Hemisphere became entirely free of active armed conflicts since at least the 1600s, and possibly for the first time in history.\n\nThe armed conflict in Colombia emerged due to a combination of economic, political and social factors in the country years ago. In the early period (1974–1982), guerrilla groups like the FARC, the ELN and others focused on slogan of greater equality through communism, and they came to have support from some local people. However, the balance of power and influence shifted in the mid-1980s when Colombia granted greater political and fiscal autonomy to local governments, strengthening the position of the Colombian Government in more remote regions of the country. In 1985, the FARC co-created the left-wing Patriotic Union (UP) political party. Eventually, the UP distanced itself from insurgent groups. However, right-wing paramilitaries apparently linked to the armed forces murdered a large number of party members during the 1980s and 90s, decimating the organization and aggravating the broader conflict.\n\nInitially, a group of Americans began to smuggle marijuana during the decades of the sixties and seventies. Later, the American Mafia began to establish drug trafficking in Colombia in cooperation with local marijuana producers. Cocaine (and other drugs) manufactured in Colombia were historically mostly consumed in the US as well as Europe. \nOrganized crime in Colombia grew increasingly powerful in the 1970s and 80s with the introduction of massive drug trafficking to the United States from Colombia. After the Colombian Government dismantled many of the drug cartels that appeared in the country during the 1980s, left-wing guerrilla groups and rightwing paramilitary organizations resumed some of their drug-trafficking activities and resorted to extortion and kidnapping for financing, activities which led to a loss of support from the local population. These funds helped finance paramilitaries and guerrillas, allowing these organizations to buy weapons which were then sometimes used to attack military and civilian targets.\n\nDuring the presidency of Álvaro Uribe, the government applied more military pressure on the FARC and other outlawed far-left groups. After the offensive, many security indicators improved. As part of a controversial peace process, the AUC (right-wing paramilitaries) as a formal organization had ceased to function. Colombia achieved a great decrease in cocaine production, leading White House drug czar R. Gil Kerlikowske to announce that Colombia is no longer the world's biggest producer of cocaine. The United States of America is still the world's largest consumer of cocaine and other illegal drugs.\n\nIn February 2008, millions of Colombians demonstrated against the FARC and other outlawed groups. 26,648 FARC and ELN combatants have decided to demobilize since 2002. During these years the military forces of the Republic of Colombia managed to be strengthened.\n\nThe Peace process in Colombia, 2012 refers to the dialogue in Havana, Cuba between the Colombian government and guerrilla of FARC-EP with the aim to find a political solution to the armed conflict. After almost four years of peace negotiations, the Colombian state and the FARC announced consensus on a 6-point plan towards peace and reconciliation. The government also began a process of assistance and reparation for victims of conflict. Recently, U.P. supporters reconstituted the political party, within the process of reconciliation. Colombia's congress approved the revised peace accord.\n\nIn February 2015, the Historical Commission on the Conflict and its Victims (Comisión Histórica del Conflicto Armado y sus Víctimas – CHCV) published its report entitled \"Contribution to an Understanding of the Armed Conflict in Colombia\". The document, that deals with the \"multiple reasons for the conflict, the principle factors and circumstances that made it possible and the most notable impacts on the population\", help to understand Colombia's armed conflict in terms of international law.\n\nThe origin of the armed conflict in Colombia goes back to 1920 with agrarian disputes over the Sumapaz and Tequendama regions. Peasants at the time fought over ownership of coffee lands which caused the liberals and conservative parties to take sides in the conflict, worsening it.\n\nIn 1948 the assassination of populist Jorge Eliécer Gaitán radically stirred up the armed conflict. It led to the \"Bogotazo\", an urban riot killing more than 4,000 people, and subsequently to ten years of sustained rural warfare between members of Colombian Liberal Party and the Colombian Conservative Party, a period known as \"La Violencia\" (\"The Violence\"), which took the lives of more than 200,000 people throughout the countryside.\n\nAs \"La Violencia\" wound down, most self-defense and guerrilla units made up of Liberal Party supporters demobilized, but at the same time some former Liberals and active Communist groups continued operating in several rural enclaves. One of the Liberal bands was a group known as the \"Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia\" (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia), or FARC, formed by Pedro Antonio Marin in 1964. The goal of the FARC, among other things, was redistribution of land that would benefit poor peasant farmers like Marin, along with the desire to establish a communist state.\n\nAlso in 1958, an exclusively bipartisan political alternation system, known as the National Front, resulted from an agreement between the Liberal and Conservative parties. The agreement had come as a result of the two parties attempting to find a final political solution to the decade of mutual violence and unrest, remaining in effect until 1974.\n\nIn the early 1960s Colombian Army units loyal to the National Front began to attack peasant communities. This happened throughout Colombia with the Colombian army considering that these peasant communities were enclaves for bandits and Communists. It was the 1964 attack on the community of Marquetalia that motivated the later creation of FARC. Despite the infantry and police encirclement of the villages inside Marquetalia (3500 men swept through the area), Manuel Marulanda managed to escape the army cordon.\n\nUnlike the rural FARC, which had roots in the previous Liberal peasant struggles, the ELN was mostly an outgrowth of university unrest and would subsequently tend to follow a small group of charismatic leaders, including Camilo Torres Restrepo.\n\nBoth guerrilla groups remained mostly operational in remote areas of the country during the rest of the 1960s.\n\nThe Colombian government organized several short-lived counter-guerrilla campaigns in the late 1950s and early 1960s. These efforts were aided by the U.S. government and the CIA, which employed hunter-killer teams and involved U.S. personnel from the previous Philippine campaign against the Huks, and which would later participate in the subsequent Phoenix Program in the Vietnam War.\n\nBy 1974, another challenge to the state's authority and legitimacy had come from the 19th of April Movement (M-19), leading to a new phase in the conflict. The M-19 was a mostly urban guerrilla group, founded in response to an electoral fraud during the final National Front election of Misael Pastrana Borrero (1970–1974) and the forced removal of former president Gustavo Rojas Pinilla.\n\nBy 1982, the perceived passivity of the FARC, together with the relative success of the government's efforts against the M-19 and ELN, enabled the administration of the Liberal Party's Julio César Turbay Ayala (1978–82) to lift a state-of-siege decree that had been in effect, on and off, for most of the previous 30 years. Under the latest such decree, president Turbay had implemented security policies that, though of some military value against the M-19 in particular, were considered highly questionable both inside and outside Colombian circles due to numerous accusations of military human rights abuses against suspects and captured guerrillas.\n\nCitizen exhaustion due to the conflict's newfound intensity led to the election of president Belisario Betancur (1982–1986), a Conservative who won 47% of the popular vote, directed peace feelers at all the insurgents, and negotiated a 1984 cease-fire with the FARC at La Uribe, Meta, after a 1982 release of many guerrillas imprisoned during the previous effort to overpower them. A truce was also arranged with the M-19. The ELN rejected entering any negotiation and continued to recover itself through the use of extortions and threats, in particular against foreign oil companies of European and U.S. origin.\n\nAs these events were developing, the growing illegal drug trade and its consequences were also increasingly becoming a matter of widespread importance to all participants in the Colombian conflict. Guerrillas and newly wealthy drug lords had mutually uneven relations and thus numerous incidents occurred between them. Eventually the kidnapping of drug cartel family members by guerrillas led to the creation of the 1981 \"Muerte a Secuestradores\" (MAS) death squad (\"Death to Kidnappers\"). Pressure from the U.S. government and critical sectors of Colombian society was met with further violence, as the Medellín Cartel and its hitmen, bribed or murdered numerous public officials, politicians and others who stood in its way by supporting the implementation of extradition of Colombian nationals to the U.S. Victims of cartel violence included Justice Minister Rodrigo Lara Bonilla, assassinated in 1984, an event which made the Betancur administration begin to directly oppose the drug lords.\n\nThe first negotiated cease-fire with the M-19 ended when the guerrillas resumed fighting in 1985, claiming that the cease-fire had not been fully respected by official security forces, saying that several of its members had suffered threats and assaults, and also questioning the government's real willingness to implement any accords. The Betancur administration in turn questioned the M-19's actions and its commitment to the peace process, as it continued to advance high-profile negotiations against with the FARC, which led to the creation of the Patriotic Union (\"Unión Patriótica\") -UP-, a legal and non-clandestine political organization.\n\nOn November 6, 1985, the M-19 stormed the Colombian Palace of Justice and held the Supreme Court magistrates hostage, intending to put president Betancur on trial. In the ensuing crossfire that followed the military's reaction, some 120 people lost their lives, as did most of the guerrillas, including several high-ranking operatives and 12 Supreme Court Judges. Both sides blamed each other for the outcome. This marked the end of Betancur's peace process.\n\nMeanwhile, individual FARC members initially joined the UP leadership in representation of the guerrilla command, though most of the guerrilla's chiefs and militiamen did not demobilize nor disarm, as that was not a requirement of the process at that point in time. Tension soon significantly increased, as both sides began to accuse each other of not respecting the cease-fire.\n\nAccording to historian Daniel Pecáut, the creation of the Patriotic Union took the guerrillas' political message to a wider public outside of the traditional communist spheres of influence and led to local electoral victories in regions such as Urabá and Antioquia, with their mayoral candidates winning twenty-three municipalities and their congressional ones gaining fourteen seats (five in the Senate, nine in the lower Chamber) in 1988. According to journalist Steven Dudley, who interviewed ex-FARC as well as former members of the UP and the Communist Party, FARC leader Jacobo Arenas insisted to his subordinates that the UP's creation did not mean that the group would lay down its arms nor a rejection of the Seventh Conference's military strategy. Pecáut states that new recruits entered the guerrilla army and its urban militia units during the period, also claiming that FARC did not stop kidnapping and continued to target regional politicians for assassination.\n\nIn October 1987, the UP's 1986 presidential candidate Jaime Pardo Leal was assassinated amid a wave of violence that would lead to the deaths of thousands of its party members at the hands of death squads. According to Pecáut, the killers included members of the military and the political class who had opposed Belisario Betancur's peace process and considered the UP to be little more than a \"facade\" for FARC, as well as drug traffickers and landowners who were also involved in the establishment of paramilitary groups.\n\nThe Virgilio Barco Vargas (1986–1990) administration, in addition to continuing to handle the difficulties of the complex negotiations with the guerrillas, also inherited a particularly chaotic confrontation against the drug lords, who were engaged in a campaign of terrorism and murder in response to government moves in favor of their extradition overseas.\n\nIn June 1987, the ceasefire between FARC and the Colombian government formally collapsed after the guerrillas attacked a military unit in the jungles of Caquetá. According to journalist Steven Dudley, FARC founder Jacobo Arenas considered the incident to be a \"natural\" part of the truce and reiterated the group's intention to continue the dialogue, but President Barco sent an ultimatum to the guerrillas and demanded that they immediately disarm or face military retaliation. Regional guerrilla and Army skirmishes created a situation where each violation of the ceasefire rendered it null in each location, until it was rendered practically nonexistent.\n\nBy 1990, at least 2,500 members of the FARC-founded Patriotic Union had been murdered, according to historian Daniel Pecáut, leading up to that year's assassination of presidential candidate Bernardo Jaramillo Ossa. The Colombian government initially blamed drug lord Pablo Escobar for the murder but journalist Steven Dudley argues that many in the UP pointed at then-Interior Minister Carlos Lemos Simmonds for publicly calling out the UP as the \"political wing of FARC\" shortly before the murder, while others claimed it was the result of an alliance between Fidel Castaño, members of the Colombian military and the DAS. Pecáut and Dudley argue that significant tensions had emerged between Jaramillo, FARC and the Communist Party due to the candidate's recent criticism of the armed struggle and their debates over the rebels' use of kidnapping, almost leading to a formal break. Jaramillo's death led to a large exodus of UP militants; in addition, by then many FARC cadres who joined the party had already returned to clandestinity, using the UP experience as an argument in favor of revolutionary war.\n\nThe M-19 and several smaller guerrilla groups were successfully incorporated into a peace process as the 1980s ended and the '90s began, which culminated in the elections for a Constituent Assembly of Colombia that would write a new constitution, which took effect in 1991.\n\nContacts with the FARC, which had irregularly continued despite the end of the ceasefire and the official 1987 break from negotiations, were temporarily cut off in 1990 under the presidency of César Gaviria Trujillo (1990–1994). The Colombian Army's assault on the FARC's \"Casa Verde\" sanctuary at La Uribe, Meta, followed by a FARC offensive that sought to undermine the deliberations of the Constitutional Assembly, began to highlight a significant break in the uneven negotiations carried over from the previous decade.\n\nBoth parties nevertheless never completely broke off some amount of political contacts for long, as some peace feelers continued to exist, leading to short rounds of conversations in both Caracas, Venezuela (1991) and Tlaxcala, Mexico (1992). Despite the signing of several documents, no concrete results were achieved when the talks ended.\n\nFARC military activity increased throughout the bulk of the 1990s as the group continued to grow in wealth from both kidnapping and drug-related activities, while drug crops rapidly spread throughout the countryside. The guerrillas protected many of the coca growers from eradication campaigns and allowed them to grow and commercialize coca in exchange for a \"tax\" either in money or in crops.\n\nIn this context, FARC had managed to recruit and train more fighters, beginning to use them in concentrated attacks in a novel and mostly unexpected way. This led to a series of high-profile raids and attacks against Colombian state bases and patrols, mostly in the southeast of Colombia but also affecting other areas.\n\nIn mid-1996, a civic protest movement made up of an estimated 200,000 coca growers from Putumayo and part of Cauca began marching against the Colombian government to reject its drug war policies, including fumigations and the declaration of special security zones in some departments. Different analysts have stressed that the movement itself fundamentally originated on its own, but at the same time, FARC heavily encouraged the marchers and actively promoted their demands both peacefully and through the threat of force.\n\nAdditionally, in 1997 and 1998, town councilmen in dozens of municipalities of the south of the country were threatened, killed, kidnapped, forced to resign or to exile themselves to department capitals by the FARC and the ELN.\n\nIn Las Delicias, Caquetá, five FARC fronts (about 400 guerrillas) recognized intelligence pitfalls in a Colombian Army base and exploited them to overrun it on August 30, 1996, killing 34 soldiers, wounding 17 and taking some 60 as prisoners. Another significant attack took place in El Billar, Caquetá on March 2, 1998, where a Colombian Army counterinsurgency battalion was patrolling, resulting in the death of 62 soldiers and the capture of some 43. Other FARC attacks against Police bases in Miraflores, Guaviare and La Uribe, Meta in August 1998 killed more than a hundred soldiers, policemen and civilians, and resulted in the capture or kidnapping of a hundred more.\n\nThese attacks, and the dozens of members of the Colombian security forces taken prisoner by the FARC, contributed to increasingly shaming the government of president Ernesto Samper Pizano (1994–1998) in the eyes of sectors of public and political opinion. He was already the target of numerous critics due to revelations of a drug-money scandal surrounding his presidential campaign. Perceptions of corruption due to similar scandals led to Colombia's decertification as a country cooperating with the United States in the war on drugs in 1995 (when the effects of the measure were temporarily waived), 1996 and 1997.\n\nThe Samper administration reacted against FARC's attacks by gradually abandoning numerous vulnerable and isolated outposts in more than 100,000 km² of the rural countryside, instead concentrating Army and Police forces in the more heavily defended strongholds available, which allowed the guerrillas to more directly mobilize through and influence events in large areas of rural territory which were left with little or no remaining local garrisons.\n\nSamper also contacted the guerrillas in order to negotiate the release of some or all of the hostages in FARC hands, which led to the temporary demilitarization of the municipality of Cartagena del Chairá, Caquetá in July 1997 and the unilateral liberation of 70 soldiers, a move which was opposed by the command of the Colombian military. Other contacts between the guerrillas and government, as well as with representatives of religious and economic sectors, continued throughout 1997 and 1998.\n\nAltogether, these events were interpreted by some Colombian and foreign analysts as a turning point in the armed confrontation, giving the FARC the upper hand in the military and political balance, making the Colombian government a target of critics from some observers who concluded that its weakness was being evidenced, perhaps even overshadowing a future guerrilla victory in the middle term. A leaked 1998 U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) report went so far as to speculate that this could be possible within 5 years if the guerrilla's rate of operations was kept up without effective opposition. Some viewed this report as inaccurate and alarmist, claiming that it did not properly take into account many factors, such as possible actions that the Colombian state and the U.S. might take in response to the situation, nor the effects of the existence of paramilitary groups.\n\nAlso during this period, paramilitary activities increased, both legally and illegally. The creation of legal CONVIVIR self-defense and intelligence gathering groups was authorized by Congress and the Samper administration in 1994. Members of CONVIVIR groups were accused of committing numerous abuses against the civilian population by several human rights organizations. The groups were left without legal support after a 1997 decision by the Colombian Constitutional Court which restricted many of their prerrogatives and demanded stricter oversight. However, in April 1997, preexisting paramilitary forces and several former CONVIVIR members were joined to create the AUC, a large paramilitary militia closely tied to drug trafficking which carried out attacks on the FARC and ELN rebel groups as well as civilians starting with the 1997 Mapiripán Massacre.\n\nThe AUC, originally present around the central/northwest part of the country, executed a series of raids into areas of guerrilla influence, targeting those that they considered as either guerrillas or their supporters. This resulted in a continuing series of massacres. After some of these operations, government prosecutors and/or human rights organizations blamed officers and members of Colombian Army and police units for either passively permitting these acts, or directly collaborating in their execution.\n\nOn August 7, 1998, Andrés Pastrana Arango was sworn in as the President of Colombia. A member of the Conservative Party, Pastrana defeated Liberal Party candidate Horacio Serpa in a run-off election marked by high voter turn-out and little political unrest. The new president's program was based on a commitment to bring about a peaceful resolution of Colombia's longstanding civil conflict and to cooperate fully with the United States to combat the trafficking of illegal drugs.\n\nIn July 1999, Colombian military forces attacked the town of Puerto Lleras, Colombia where FARC rebels were stationed. Using U.S. supplied aircraft and equipment, and backed with U.S. logistical support, Colombian government forces strafed and bombed the town for over 72 hours. In the attack, three civilians were killed, and several others were wounded as the military attacked hospitals, churches, ambulances, and residential areas. FARC rebels were forced to flee the area, and many were killed or wounded. The Colombian government claimed that this was a significant victory, while human rights groups claimed this as proof that \"anti-narcotics\" aid, was actually just military aid which was being used to fight a leftist insurgency.\n\nThe years from 2000–2006 were bloody ones in Colombia with thousands of deaths every year resulting from the ongoing war between the Colombian Armed Forces, Paramilitary groups such as the AUC and the rebel groups (mainly the FARC, ELN and also the EPL). The fighting resulted in massive internal displacement of Colombia's civilian population and thousands of civilian deaths.\n\nDuring President Uribe's first term in office (2002–2006), the security situation inside Colombia showed some measure of improvement and the economy, while still fragile, also showed some positive signs of recovery according to observers. But relatively little has been accomplished in structurally solving most of the country's other grave problems, such as poverty and inequality, possibly in part due to legislative and political conflicts between the administration and the Colombian Congress (including those over a controversial project to eventually give Uribe the possibility of re-election), and a relative lack of freely allocated funds and credits.\n\nSome critical observers considered that Uribe's policies, while reducing crime and guerrilla activity, were too slanted in favor of a military solution to Colombia's internal war while neglecting grave social and human rights concerns. Critics have asked for Uribe's government to change this position and make serious efforts towards improving the human rights situation inside the country, protecting civilians and reducing any abuses committed by the armed forces. Political dissenters and labor union members, among others, have suffered from threats and have been murdered. \n\nIn 2001 the largest government supported paramilitary group, the AUC, which had been linked to drug trafficking and attacks on civilians, was added to the US State Department's list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations and the European Union and Canada soon followed suit.\n\nOn January 17, 2002, right-wing paramilitaries entered the village of Chengue, and divided up the villagers into two groups. They then went from person to person in one of the groups, smashing each person's head with sledgehammers and rocks, killing 24 people, as the Colombian military sat by and watched. Two other bodies were later discovered dumped in a shallow grave. As the paramilitaries left, they set fire to the village.\n\nIn 2004, it was revealed by the National Security Archive that a 1991 document from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency had described then-Senator Uribe as a \"close personal friend\" and collaborator of Pablo Escobar. The Uribe administration denied several of the allegations in the 1991 report.\n\nStarting in 2004 a disarmament process was begun of Colombia's paramilitary groups (especially the AUC) and was completed on April 12, 2006, when 1,700 fighters turned in their weapons in the town of Casibare.\n\nIn May 2006, the Colombian presidential election resulted in Uribe winning re-election with a historic first round vote tally of 62%, followed by leftist Carlos Gaviria with 22% and Horacio Serpa.\n\nOn June 28, 2007 the FARC suddenly reported the death of 11 of the 12 kidnapped provincial deputies from Valle del Cauca Department. The Colombian government accused the FARC of executing the hostages and stated that government forces had not made any rescue attempts. FARC claimed that the deaths occurred during a crossfire, after an attack to one of its camps by an \"unidentified military group\". FARC did not report any other casualties on either side.\n\nIn 2007, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez and Colombian Senator Piedad Córdoba were acting as authorised mediators in the ongoing Humanitarian Exchange between the FARC and the government of Colombia. Colombian President Álvaro Uribe had given Chávez permission to mediate, under the conditions that all meetings with the FARC would take place in Venezuela and that Chávez would not contact members of the Colombian military directly, but instead go through proper diplomatic channels. However, President Uribe abruptly terminated Chávez's mediation efforts on November 22, 2007, after Chávez personally contacted General Mario Montoya Uribe, the Commander of the Colombian National Army. In response, Chávez said that he was still willing to mediate, but had withdrawn Venezuela's ambassador to Colombia and placed Colombian-Venezuelan relations \"in a freezer\"\nPresident Uribe responded that Colombia needed \"mediation against terrorism, not for Chávez to legitimise terrorism,\" that Chávez was not interested in peace in Colombia, and that Chávez was building an expansionist project on the continent.\n\nSeveral scandals have affected Uribe's administration. The Colombian parapolitics scandal expanded during his second term, involving numerous members of the administration's ruling coalition. Many pro-government lawmakers, such as the President's cousin Mario Uribe, have been investigated for their possible ties to paramilitary organizations.\n\nAt the end of 2007, FARC agreed to release former senator Consuelo González, politician Clara Rojas and her son Emmanuel, born in captivity after a relationship with one of her captors. Operation Emmanuel was proposed and set up by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, with the permission of the Colombian government. The mission was approved on December 26. Although, on December 31, FARC claimed that the hostage release had been delayed because of Colombian military operations. On the same time, Colombian President Álvaro Uribe indicated that FARC had not freed the three hostages because Emmanuel may not be in their hands anymore. Two FARC gunmen were taken prisoner. \n\nColombian authorities added that a boy matching Emmanuel's description had been taken to a hospital in San José del Guaviare in June 2005. The child was in poor condition; one of his arms was hurt, he had severe malnutrition, and he had diseases that are commonly suffered in the jungle. Having been evidently mistreated, the boy was later sent to a foster home in Bogotá and DNA tests were announced in order to confirm his identity.\n\nOn January 4, 2008, the results of a mitochondrial DNA test, comparing the child's DNA with that of his potential grandmother Clara de Rojas, were revealed by the Colombian government. It was reported that there was a very high probability that the boy was indeed part of the Rojas family. The same day, FARC released a communique in which they admitted that Emmanuel had been taken to Bogotá and \"left in the care of honest persons\" for safety reasons until a humanitarian exchange took place. The group accused President Uribe of \"kidnapping\" the child in order to sabotage his liberation.\nHowever, on January 10, 2008, FARC released Rojas and Gonzalez through a humanitarian commission headed by the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nOn January 13, 2008, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez stated his disapproval with the FARC strategy of armed struggle and kidnapping saying \"I don't agree with kidnapping and I don't agree with armed struggle\". He repeated his call for a political solution and an end to the war on March and June 2008, \"The guerrilla war is history...At this moment in Latin America, an armed guerrilla movement is out of place\".\n\nOn February 2008, FARC released four others political hostages \"as a gesture of goodwill\" toward Chávez, who had brokered the deal and sent Venezuelan helicopters with Red Cross logos into the Colombian jungle to pick up the freed hostages.\n\nOn March 1, 2008, the Colombian armed forces launched a military operation 1.8 kilometres into Ecuador on a FARC position, killing 24, including Raúl Reyes, member of the FARC Central High Command. This led to the 2008 Andean diplomatic crisis between Colombia and Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa, supported by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. On March 3, Iván Ríos, also a member of the FARC Central High Command was killed by his security chief \"Rojas\". In March 2008 alone, FARC lost 3 members of their Secretariat, including their founder.\n\nOn May 24, 2008, Colombian magazine, \"Revista Semana\", published an interview with Colombian defense minister Juan Manuel Santos in which Santos mentions the death of Manuel Marulanda Vélez. The news was confirmed by FARC-commander 'Timochenko' on Venezuelan based television station Telesur on May 25, 2008. 'Timochenko' announced the new commander in chief is 'Alfonso Cano'.\n\nIn May 2008, a dozen jailed paramilitary leaders were extradited to the United States on drug-related charges. In 2009, extradited paramilitary leader Salvatore Mancuso would claim that the AUC had supported Uribe's 2002 election, but said that this was a result of their similar \"ideological discourse\" and not the result of any direct prior arrangement.\n\nOn July 2, 2008, the Colombian armed forces launched Operation Jaque that resulted in the freedom of 15 political hostages, including former Colombian presidential candidate Íngrid Betancourt, Marc Gonsalves, Thomas Howes, and Keith Stansell, three American military contractors employed by Northrop Grumman and 11 Colombian military and police. Two FARC members were arrested. This trick to the FARC was presented by the Colombian government as a proof that the guerrilla organisation and influence is declining. \n\nOn October 26, 2008, after 8 years of captivity, the ex-congressman Óscar Tulio Lizcano escaped with the assistance of a FARC rebel he convinced to travel with him. Soon after the liberation of this prominent political hostage, the Vice President of Colombia Francisco Santos Calderón called Latin America's biggest guerrilla group a \"paper tiger\" with little control of the nation's territory, adding that \"they have really been diminished to the point where we can say they are a minimal threat to Colombian security,\" and that \"After six years of going after them, reducing their income and promoting reinsertion of most of their members, they look like a paper tiger.\" However, he warned against any kind of premature triumphalism, because \"crushing the rebels will take time.\" The of jungle in Colombia makes it hard to track them down to fight.\n\nAccording to the Colombian government, in early 2009 FARC launched plan \"Rebirth\" to avoid being defeated. They planned to intensify guerrilla warfare by the use of landmines, snipers, and bomb attacks in urban areas. They also plan to buy missiles to fight the Colombian airforce which highly contribute to their weakness since few years.\n\nIn February 2009, the guerrilla released 6 hostages as a humanitarian gesture. In March, they released Swedish hostage Erik Roland Larsson. \n\nIn April 2009, the Colombian armed forces launched \"Strategic Leap\", an offensive in borders areas where the FARC's forces still has a strong military presence, especially in Arauca, near the Venezuelan border.\n\nIn November 2009, Nine Colombian soldiers were killed when their post was attacked by FARC guerrillas in a southwestern part of the country.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, FARC rebels raided the home of Provincial governor Luis Francisco Cuéllar, killing one police officer and wounding two. Cuellar was found dead the following day.\n\nOn January 1, 2010, Eighteen FARC rebels were killed when the Colombian Air Force bombed a jungle camp in Southern Colombia. Colombian troops of the elite Task Force Omega then stormed the camp, capturing fifteen FARC rebels, as well as 25 rifles, war materials, explosives, and information which was given to military intelligence. In Southwestern Colombia, FARC rebels ambushed an army patrol, killing a soldier. The troops then exchanged fire with the rebels. During the fighting, a teenager was killed in the crossfire.\n\nOn January 1, 2010, Eighteen FARC rebels were killed when the Colombian Air Force bombed a jungle camp in Southern Colombia. Colombian troops of the elite Task Force Omega then stormed the camp, capturing fifteen FARC rebels, as well as 25 rifles, war materials, explosives, and information which was given to military intelligence. In Southwestern Colombia, FARC rebels ambushed an army patrol, killing a soldier. The troops then exchanged fire with the rebels. During the fighting, a teenager was killed in the crossfire.\n\nWhen Juan Manuel Santos was elected president in August 2010, he promised to \"continue the armed offensive\" against rebel movements. In the month after his inauguration, FARC and ELN killed roughly 50 soldiers and policemen in attacks all over Colombia. September also saw the killing of FARC's second-in-command Mono Jojoy. By the end of 2010, it became increasingly clear that \"neo-paramilitary groups\", referred to as \"criminal groups\" (BACRIM) by the government, had become an increasing threat to national security, with violent groups such as Los Rastrojos and Aguilas Negras taking control of large parts of the Colombian countryside.\n\nIn 2010, the FARC killed at least 460 members of the security forces, while wounding more than 2,000.\n\nBy early 2011, Colombian authorities and news media reported that the FARC and the clandestine sister groups have partly shifted strategy from guerrilla warfare to \"a war of militias\", meaning that they are increasingly operating in civilian clothes while hiding amongst sympathizers in the civilian population. In early January 2011, the Colombian army said that the FARC has some 18,000 members, with 9,000 of those forming part of the militias. The army says it has \"identified\" at least 1,400 such militia members in the FARC-strongholds of Valle del Cauca and Cauca in 2011. In June 2011, Colombian chief of staff Edgar Cely claimed that the FARC wants to \"urbanize their actions\", which could partly explain the increased guerrilla activity in Medellín and particularly Cali. Jeremy McDermott, co-director of Insight Crime, estimates that FARC may have some 30,000 \"part-time fighters\" in 2011, consisting of supporters making up the rebel militia network instead of armed uniformed combatants.\n\nIn 2011, the Colombian Congress issued a statement claiming that the FARC has a \"strong presence\" in roughly one third of Colombia, while their attacks against security forces \"have continued to rise\" throughout 2010 and 2011.\n\nIn 2012, the Colombia Military launched The Espada de Honor War Plan, an aggressive counterinsurgency strategies that aims to dismantle FARC's structure, crippling them both militarily and financially. The plan targets FARC leadership and it is focused on eliminating 15 of the most powerful economic and military fronts.\n\nOn July 20, 2013, as peace talks were making progress, two rebel attacks on government positions killed 19 soldiers and an unspecified number of combatants. It was the deadliest day since peace talks began in November 2012.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, 9 FARC guerrillas were killed in the aftermath airstrikes conducted by the Colombian air force in the Meta province.\n\nOn 22 May 2015, the FARC suspended a truce after 26 of its fighters were killed in a government air and ground offensive.\n\nOn 22 June 2015, a Colombian Army Black Hawk helicopter was destroyed while landing on a mine field laid by FARC: four soldiers were killed and six were wounded.\n\nOn 23 June 2016, the Colombian government and FARC agreed to a ceasefire. A \"final, full and definitive accord\" was agreed to on August 24, 2016. This accord does not include ELN.\n\nOn 2 October 2016, the results of the referendum to decide whether or not to support the peace accord showed that 50.2% opposed the accord while 49.8% favoured it.\n\nIn October 2016, President Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his resolute efforts to bring the country's more than 50-year-long war to an end.\n\nThe Colombian government and the FARC on November 24 signed a revised peace deal and the revised agreement will be submitted to Congress for approval. The House of Representatives unanimously approved the plan on November 30, a day after the Senate also gave its backing.\n\nFARC dissidents are a group formerly part of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, who have refused to lay down their arms after the FARC-government peace treaty came into effect in 2016. The dissidents number some 1200 armed combatants with an unknown number of civilian militia supporting them. The FARC dissidents have become \"an increasing headache\" for the Colombian armed forces, as they have to fight them, the EPL, ELN and Clan del Golfo at the same time. FARC dissidents are led by former mid-level commanders such as alias Gentil Duarte, alias Euclides Mora, alias John 40, alias Giovanny Chuspas and alias Julián Chollo. The FARC dissidents have been responsible for several attacks on the Colombian armed forces. These fighters are believed to be heavily involved in the production and sale of cocaine. Dissidents of FARC’s 1st Front are located in the eastern plains of Colombia. Jhon 40 and their dissident 43rd Front moved into the Amazonas state of western Venezuela. Venezuela has served as the primary location for many FARC dissidents. On 15 July 2018, the Colombian and Peruvian governments launched a joint military effort known as Operation Armageddon to combat FARC dissidents. Peru issued a 60-day state of emergency in the Putumayo Province, an area bordering both Colombia and Ecuador. On the first day alone, more than 50 individuals were arrested in the operation, while four cocaine labs were dismantled. The group has attempted to recruit locals in the Putumayo Province in Peru to take up their cause.\n\nThe destruction of physical infrastructure has represented high costs for several sectors of the economy, directly altering production and distribution networks. The costs generated by damage to the oil infrastructure have shown a substantial increase since 1990. This is mainly explained by the increase in attacks on oil pipelines by groups outside the law. According to data from Ecopetrol, between 1999 and 2003, the costs assumed by the hydrocarbon exploitation sector grew by approximately 59%, amounting to $817,654.5 million. This equates to 23.6% of the total royalties that Ecopetrol turned to 20 departments and 110 municipalities, destined to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants. For 2004, costs decreased substantially to $11,015.5 million. This is the first sector most affected by the terrorist actions of groups outside the law. The costs are mainly derived from the spilled oil, \"[...] from the repair of the pipeline, from the environmental decontamination and from the oil stopped producing 60% of the total expenses incurred.\" During the 1999-2003 period, costs against electrical and telecommunications towers increased substantially, representing $134,871.2 million. This is equivalent to 5.4% of 2003 GDP for the electricity, gas and water sector. On the other hand, according to data from the National Institute of Roads (INVÍAS), between 1993-1995, groups outside the law demolished eleven tolls and a bridge, and its reconstruction cost $378,476,248. This amount increased significantly during the 1999-2003 period, when the costs generated by the reconstruction of bridges represented $18,455.7 million. These costs are equivalent to 1.71% of the total INVÍAS budget for 2003. For 2004, costs for damages to the road infrastructure dropped substantially to $680 million. The partial interruption of the roads directly affects the transport sector, food and other private guilds, which in turn assume costs for these damages. However, generally these have not been quantified, because of the difficulty they have to be directly calculated. This tends to present itself as a generalized problem in quantifying the costs associated with conflict. This is explained, in part, by the tendency in the various economic sectors not to denounce this type of actions that, in one way or another, interrupt the normal functioning of economic activities.\n\nColombia is the country in which more people are and have been kidnapped. Kidnapping, as one of the manifestations that underlie the armed conflict, carries both direct and indirect costs. The former comprise mainly the payment of ransoms and the expenses assumed by the State to control and prevent it. Indirect costs include, \"[...] the loss of human capital for the duration of the detention and for the death of the kidnapped during his captivity\". There are two types of kidnapping: a) kidnapping for extortion and political purposes; and b) simple kidnapping. According to data from the Directorate of Justice and Security of the DNP, this phenomenon shows an increasing trend. With respect to the costs of sequestration, the sources suggest an increasing behavior between 1996 and 2003. In such a way that \"the average annual growth rate is 9.3%, the highest rate is observed in 1998 (46.2%), and in 2000 (37.2%) year in which the number of kidnappings also it is significantly high [...] reaching its peak in the year 2000 with 1,938 cases.\" From then on, the trend becomes decreasing (except for a peak in 2002 with 1,542 cases) until reaching the 350 kidnappings (the lowest figure since 1996) in 2005. Within these costs, 64.4% are direct, representing US $167.4 million. 35.6% of the remaining costs are indirect, and represent US $92.7 million. In 2004, the costs of sequestration were reduced to $109,519 million, representing 0.27% of GDP in 2003.\n\nWhile spending on defense and security becomes very important to examine when dealing with a country immersed in an armed conflict, the analysis on this issue are relatively recent. This can be explained because until the beginning of the second half of the nineties, defense and security spending had a significant growth. Spending on defense and security includes, on the one hand, the means by which the State must have to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, and on the other, the costs involved in maintaining internal security. Various studies of National Planning suggest that the Colombian State spends a much greater percentage in defense and security than other Latin American countries. Between 1991-1996, the estimated value of these resources was $3.7 billion. That is, 2.6% of GDP, while for Latin America the average of this expenditure was 1.7% of GDP. A study carried out by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) for the year 2001 \"[...] shows that Colombia ranked 24th in the countries with the largest participation in military spending, out of a total of 116 investigated.\"The figure for the participation of military expenditures in GDP was 3.8% for Colombia while in the countries of the American continent the closest figure is that of the United States with 3.1% followed by Chile with 2.9%, Ecuador with 2.1% and the rest of countries below 2.0% \". Thus, for the period 1999-2003, defense and security spending was $8,463,611.0 million, equivalent to 10.5% of GDP in 2003. The excess of said expense, compared to the average cost of neighboring countries, It was close to 0.79% of GDP. A Fedesarrollo study states that the Spending on defense and security carried out during 2004 \"[...] represented 4.5% of GDP [...] \" which does not have precedents in the history of Colombia. This is directly related to the undertaken by the government of the current president Álvaro Uribe, who focuses on hitting militarily to groups outside the law, in order to regain security national. On the other hand, for the year 2004, the expenses of the Colombian Government in war and security were 6.59%, placing the country between the tenth that invest the most in war as proportion of GDP .\n\nThe estimated loss of human capital and productivity due to labor absenteeism in 2003 amounted to $366.2 billion\". On the other hand, the loss of land productivity, which translates into a negative impact on administration, investment in physical and social capital, and the price of land in subsectors such as livestock and commercial agriculture is one of the consequences associated with the presence of an armed conflict. This cost is mainly assumed by farmers who experience the pressure of armed actions in their areas of operation. Within this context, the most serious consequences are related to the devaluation of the properties, the loss of productivity of the land -represented in the products that could potentially have been cultivated in these lands- and the difficulty in managing the efficient production of the lands. According to a study of National Planning, the estimated costs for the loss of productivity of land represented, between 1999 and 2003, $140,443.5 million, equivalent to 1.28% of the GDP of the agricultural sector of 2003.\n\nThe duration and expansion of the national conflict has had a significant impact on the distribution of income and wealth in Colombia. According to an investigation by the CEDE of the Universidad de los Andes, \"as a result of the displacement, the displaced households have left behind a little more than four million hectares, which correspond to 6.7 times of the total hectares granted by the program. of Agrarian Reform during the period between 1993 and 2000, and represent a total value of $ 2.6 billion.\" In this context, the enormous concentration of rural property in the hands of a few individuals is not only the result of the purchase of land by drug traffickers and the illegal appropriation by groups outside the law, but also the consequence of acquisition of properties devalued due to the armed conflict [...]. It is estimated that 1.3% of the owners control 48% of the best lands. On the other hand, a study carried out by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) states that the Colombian conflict has had a negative effect on the income of the population. According to this study, because of the conflict, Colombia has lost 17% of its per capita income in the last ten years. That is to say, \"[...] the money wasted every year corresponds to about 4.6 times what the community welfare homes programs, children's homes and school restaurants of the social support network cos.\"\n\nAlthough the agents adjust their investment behavior, that is, they internalize the phenomenon of violence, assuming it as a change in the structures of the economy in the long term the investment of both the State and the private sector is diminished in substantial ways. In the Colombian case, the loss in private investment has been estimated at 0.53 points of the annual GDP, due to the public order conditions that arise directly from the presence of an armed conflict. A 1% increase in the homicide rate reduces private investment by 0.66%. Thus, we can observe that the high levels of violence directly affect the transaction costs and levels of uncertainty in society. Likewise, they reduce to a certain degree the profitability of investments. A study by Corporación Invertir en Colombia (Coinvertir) and the National Planning Department (DNP) shows that insecurity hinders the development of new foreign investments, especially in the financial, oil and gas, and electric power sectors.\n\nOne of the biggest problems to invest in Colombia is that it is necessary to devote a large part of the budget to security and protection controls, which is very difficult to justify before the house. In this sense, the economic environment affected by the violence translates into a tax on investment.\" On the other hand, it should be noted that within the studies on the costs of the conflict, specific sectors such as the private sector have begun to be studied, taking into account the high costs they have had to assume due to the existence of this phenomenon. The large companies and those that operate at the national level assume the highest costs associated with the existence of the conflict. This is because they are more attractive for someone who wants to extort for example, and also those who lose most in adverse conditions. Appealing to the economic arguments that underlie the conflict, various state and international aid and cooperation institutions seek to establish the scope and potential benefits of a peaceful situation. This argument has mobilized and sensitized various sectors of society to understand that peace is also an economic necessity. In Colombia, as shown in the studies that have estimated the costs of the conflict, since the nineties it has imposed increasingly higher costs to various productive sectors of the economy and society in general.\n\nAmong the sectors most affected by the conflict are the exploitation of hydrocarbons, electricity and livestock. This is explained, in part, because the areas where the operations and activities of these sectors take place, in parallel, are the territories where groups outside the law exert a very strong presence. Likewise, for the Colombian private sector, indirect costs have more impact on their activities than direct costs. With respect to indirect costs, although there is a clear difficulty to be quantified, the various studies suggest that they have been significantly high and that they have had a representative impact on society as such.\n\nThe United States has been heavily involved in the conflict since its beginnings, when in the early 1960s the U.S. government encouraged the Colombian military to attack leftist militias in rural Colombia. This was part of the U.S. fight against communism.\n\nIn October 1959, the United States sent a \"Special Survey Team\", composed of counterinsurgency experts, to investigate Colombia's internal security situation. In February 1962, a Fort Bragg top-level U.S. Special Warfare team headed by Special Warfare Center commander General William P. Yarborough, visited Colombia for a second survey. In a secret supplement to his report to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Yarborough encouraged the creation and deployment of a paramilitary force to commit sabotage and terrorist acts against communists:\n\nThe first paramilitary groups were organized following recommendations made by U.S. military counterinsurgency advisers who were sent to Colombia during the Cold War to combat leftist political activists and armed guerrilla groups.\n\nMultinational corporations have also been directly tied to paramilitary death squads. Chiquita Brands International was fined $25 million as part of a settlement with the United States Justice Department for having ties to paramilitary groups. In 2016, Judge Kenneth Marra of the Southern District of Florida ruled in favor of allowing Colombians to sue former Chiquita Brand International executives for the company's funding of the outlawed right-wing paramilitary organization that murdered their family members. He stated in his decision that \"'profits took priority over basic human welfare' in the banana company executives' decision to finance the illegal death squads, despite knowing that this would advance the paramilitaries' murderous campaign.\"\n\nIn December 2013, \"The Washington Post\" revealed a covert CIA program, started in the early 2000s, which provides the Colombian government with intelligence and GPS guidance systems for smart bombs.\n\nAs of August, 2004, the US had spent $3 billion in Colombia, more than 75% of it on military aid. Before the Iraq war, Colombia was the third largest recipient of US aid only after Egypt and Israel, and the U.S. has 400 military personnel and 400 civilian contractors in Colombia. Currently, however, Colombia is not a top recipient of U.S. aid; while it was under the first five years of the Plan Colombia, Colombia today no longer ranks among the top ten.\n\nIn March 2015, it was revealed DEA agents were participating in drug cartel-funded sex parties with prostitutes. Agents were provided with expensive gifts, weapons and money from drug cartel members. The head of the US Drug Enforcement Administration, Michele Leonhart announced her retirement. Leonhart's tenure as DEA Administrator was marked with controversy and scandals including a prostitution scandal.\n\nIf the peace talks underway in Havana are successful in bringing peace to Colombia, this U.S. aid to the military will likely need to be reallocated to help support a lasting peace.\n\nColombia rejects threats and blackmail of the United States of America after the threat of Donald Trump to decertify the country as a partner in counter-narcotics efforts.\n\nAccording to a study by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 220,000 people have died in the conflict between 1958 and 2013, most of them civilians (177,307 civilians and 40,787 fighters) and more than five million civilians were forced from their homes between 1985 – 2012, generating the world's second largest population of internally displaced persons (IDPs). The report shows that the humanitarian crisis in Colombia is extremely serious in terms of both lethal and nonlethal violence. The report examines the widespread use of sexual violence against women and girls as a weapon of war, as well as the invisibility of this phenomenon. 16.9% of the population in Colombia has been a direct victim of the war.\n\n2.3 million children have been displaced from their homes, and 45,000 children killed, according to national figures cited by Unicef. In total, one in three of the 7.6 million registered victims of the conflict are children, and since 1985, 8,000 minors have disappeared. Since the peace talks with the FARC began four years ago, some 1,000 children have been forcibly recruited by some of the myriad armed groups in the country, 75 have been killed, and 65 schools have been damaged by fighting.\n\nAccording to the report \"Basta ya\", written in 2013 by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 80% of victims affected by conflict-related violence and landmines were civilians. The report documents 1,982 massacres between 1980 and 2012.\n\nThe Government also began a process of assistance, attention and comprehensive reparation for victims of conflict. During his visit to Colombia, Pope Francis brought with him a message of peace and paid tribute to the victims of the conflict.\n\nThe Special Jurisdiction for Peace (\"Jurisdicción Especial para la Paz\", JEP) would be the transitional justice component of the Comprehensive System, complying with Colombia's duty to investigate, clarify, prosecute and punish serious human rights violations and grave breaches of international humanitarian law which occurred during the armed conflict. Its objectives would be to satisfy victims' right to justice, offer truth to the public, contribute to the reparation of victims, contribute to the fight against impunity, adopt decisions which give full legal security to direct and indirect participants in the conflict and contribute to the achievement of a stable and lasting peace.\n\nThe Special Unit for the Search of Missing Persons in the context and due to the armed conflict (\"Unidad especial para la búsqueda de personas dadas por desaparecidas en el contexto y en razón del conflicto armado\") would be a special high-level unit created following the signature of the final agreement. It would direct and coordinate efforts to search for and locate missing persons, or find their remains so that they may be returned to their families. To carry out its work, the search unit would collect the necessary information about missing persons, analyze the information collected, strengthen and streamline processes for identifying mortal remains in coordination with the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, guarantee families' participation and present an official report to families informing them of the fate of missing relatives. The search unit would be administrative and financially independent and autonomous, complementing the other components of the Comprehensive System.\n\nSince 1990, over 11,000 people have been killed or wounded by landmines in Colombia. Between 1982 and the end of 2012, 2,038 people have been killed by landmines, according to the Presidential Program for Mine Action. Since 2000, casualties from landmines in Colombia have ranged from 1,300 a year to just around 550.\n\nIn the past, the Colombian government laid landmines around 34 military bases to protect key infrastructure, but it renounced their use in 1997. Landmines are primarily used by the rebel groups to protect their home bases and illegal drug crops, which fund the conflict. FARC and ELN have deployed antipersonnel mines throughout an estimated area of up to 100 square kilometers. In March 2015, FARC stated that it would begin humanitarian demining in selected parts of Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45590109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45590109", "title": "Council of Tortosa", "text": "Council of Tortosa\n\nThe Council of Tortosa (officially Concilium Dertusanum) was an unrecognised Ecumenical Council held in Catalonia in 1429, d by Cardinal Pierre de Foix. The council convened between 19 September and 5 November, passing various decrees concerning the divine service, the ornaments of the church, instruction of youth, the qualifications of the holders of benefices, etc.\n\nAttendees included all the prelates and many of the ecclesiastics of the Kingdom of Aragon, the Kingdom of Valencia, and of the principality of Catalonia. The king's letters confirming the liberties and immunities of the church were read, and at the end of the fourth session twenty canons were approved and published.\n\nAntipope Clement VIII, who was only recognised by the Aragonese, renounced the insignia of the papacy on 26 July 1429. His cession was confirmed by the Council, effectively bringing an end to the Great Schism.\n\nThe Inquisition had hardly touched the Crown of Aragon and the Crown of Castile in 1429, and the council entreated that \"for divine mercy's sake, the king of Aragon, the barons, knights, prelates, and universities, should protect the Jews from violence, from which they would otherwise have suffered\" (under the Inquisition). The council succeeded in as much that about thirty years elapsed without an insurrection against the Jews. It wasn't until 1498 that the Spanish inquisition effectively swept away the protection that Spain's Jews enjoyed following the Council.\n\nIn all, 20 canon were published by the Council, including:\n\nIn addition, the Council:\n"}
{"id": "10066498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066498", "title": "Demographic history", "text": "Demographic history\n\nDemographic history is the reconstructed record of human population in the past. Given the lack of population records prior to the 1950s, there are many gaps in our record of demographic history. Historical demographers must make do with estimates. models and extrapolations. For the methodology, see Historical demography\n\nEstimating the ancestral population of anatomically modern humans, Colin McEvedy and Richard Jones chose bounds based on gorilla and chimpanzee population densities of 1/km² and 3-4/km², respectively, then assumed that as \"Homo erectus\" moved up the food chain, they lost an order of magnitude in density. With a habitat of 68 million km² (\"the Old World south of latitude 50° north, minus Australia\"), \"Homo erectus\" could have numbered around 1.7 million individuals. After being replaced by \"Homo sapiens\" and moving into the New World and de-glaciated territory, by 10,000 BC world population was approaching four million people. McEvedy and Jones argue that, after populating the maximum available range, this was the limit of our food-gathering ancestors, with further population growth requiring food-producing activities.\n\nThe initial population \"upswing\" began around 5000 BC. Global population gained 50% in the 5th millennium BC, and 100% each millennium until 1000 BC, reaching 50 million people. After the beginning of the Iron Age, growth rate reached its peak with a doubling time of 500 years. However, growth slackened between 500 BC and 1 AD, before ceasing around 200 AD. This \"primary cycle\" was, at this time in history, confined to Europe, North Africa, and mainland Asia. McEvedy and Jones describe a secondary, \"medieval cycle\" being led by feudal Europe and Song China from around 900 AD.\n\nDuring the period from 500 to 900 world population grew slowly but the growth rate accelerated between 900 and 1300 when the population doubled. During the 14th century, there was a fall in population associated with the Black Death that spread from Asia to Europe. This was followed by a period of restrained growth for 300 years.\n\nIn the 18th century world population entered a period of accelerated growth. European population reached a peak growth rate of 10 per thousand per year in the second half of the 19th century. During the 20th century, the growth rate among the European populations fell and was overtaken by a rapid acceleration in the growth rate in other continents, which reached 21 per thousand per year in the last 50 years of the millennium. Between 1900 and 2000, the population of the world increased by 277%, a fourfold increase from 1.5 billion to 6 billion. The European component increased by 124%, and the remainder by 349%.\n\nThe Indian population was about 100 million in 1500. Under the Mughal Empire, the population rose to 160 million in 1700. Mughal India had a relatively high degree of urbanization for its time, with 15% of its population living in urban centres, higher than the percentage of the urban population in contemporary Europe at the time and higher than that of British India in the 19th century. Under the British Raj, the population reached 255 million according to the census taken in 1881.\n\nStudies of India's population since 1881 have focused on such topics as total population, birth and death rates, growth rates, geographic distribution, literacy, the rural and urban divide, cities of a million, and the three cities with populations over eight million: Delhi, Greater Mumbai (Bombay), and Kolkata (Calcutta).\n\nMortality rates fell in 1920-45 era, primarily due to biological immunization. Other factors included rising incomes and better living conditions, improved better nutrition, a safer and cleaner environmental, and better official health policies and medical care.\n\nSevere overcrowding in the cities caused major public health problems, as noted in an official report from 1938:\n\nKarl Julius Beloch estimated the population of early modern Europe, circa 1600, as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25249479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25249479", "title": "Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II", "text": "Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II\n\nThe Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II was a multinational celebration throughout 2012, that marked the 60th anniversary of the accession of Queen Elizabeth II on 6 February 1952. Queen Elizabeth is queen regnant of 16 sovereign states, known as Commonwealth realms, including the United Kingdom. The only other time in British history that a monarch celebrated a Diamond Jubilee was in 1897, when Queen Victoria celebrated hers.\n\nCommemorative events were held throughout the Commonwealth of Nations. Unlike the Queen's Silver and Golden Jubilees, when the Queen toured most of her realms around the world, Elizabeth II and her husband the Duke of Edinburgh, toured only the United Kingdom. Other parts of the Commonwealth were toured by her children and grandchildren as her representatives.\n\nAt the 2011 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Perth, Australia, British Prime Minister David Cameron announced the creation of the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust, which was officially launched in the UK on 6 February 2012. Chaired by former British prime minister Sir John Major, the trust was intended to support charitable organisations and projects across the Commonwealth of Nations, focusing on areas such as cures for diseases and the promotion of all types of culture and education. In early 2012, Prime Minister of Australia Julia Gillard announced the Australian Crown-in-Council would make an A$5.4 million contribution to the trust and the New Zealand Crown-in-Council later made a similar $1 million donation. The Canadian government announced in April that former prime minister Jean Chrétien would be Canada's representative to the organisation.\n\nIn February 2012, a senior advisor was quoted as saying the Queen set two guidelines for the planning of her jubilee: the use of public funds should be minimised and people should not \"be forced to celebrate\". The first major international event of the jubilee celebrations was the Diamond Jubilee Pageant, also branded \"The World Comes to Windsor\", a cavalcade held at Windsor Castle to celebrate the Queen's visits to and tours of over 250 countries, as well as her passion for horses. The show, which featured 550 horses and 1,100 performers from around the world, was performed in the evenings between 10 and 13 May, after the daytime events of the annual Royal Windsor Horse Show had taken place. The Queen attended the final night.\n\nOn 18 May, the Queen hosted an informal lunch at Windsor Castle for more than twenty current or former monarchs from other countries. In the evening of the same day, the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall hosted a dinner that most of the monarchs also attended, although the Queen herself was not present. Criticism was directed at the presence of the King of Bahrain at the lunch, because of alleged repression of protests against the government of Bahrain in that country in 2011. In London, protesters against the King assembled outside Buckingham Palace during the dinner, although he did not attend that event.\nThe lighting of thousands of beacons across the Commonwealth took place on 4 June. The number of beacons was originally set at 2,012; by the closing date for registrations, approximately 4,000 had been submitted in the United Kingdom alone. The first beacon of the Jubilee was lit on the grounds of Apifo'ou College in Nukuʻalofa, Tonga, by Tongan girl and Boy Scouts using coconut sheath torches. Other nations, including Kenya, Australia, New Zealand, India, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, and several Caribbean states, took part in the beacon lighting. The world's most remote beacon was lit in Tristan da Cunha in the south Atlantic, using invasive, non-native plants to fuel the fire. In the United Kingdom, British servicemen and women wounded in battle and individuals representing charities carried beacons to the summits of the UK's four highest peaks. One beacon was lit at Treetops Hotel in Aberdare National Park in Kenya, where the Queen was at the moment of her accession to the throne. The Queen lit the beacon outside Buckingham Palace at 10:30 pm, by inserting a large, specially made, diamond-cut crystal into a receptacle. The lighting proceeded until the final beacon was lit in Canada eight hours later.\n\nThe Queen's husband, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, was hospitalised with a bladder infection on 4 June and thus was not able to attend any of the official events. In his speech given at the conclusion of the Diamond Jubilee Concert, the Prince of Wales commented on the sadness of his father's absence and urged the crowd to cheer loud enough for the Duke to hear in hospital. Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, stated after visiting his father that the latter was watching the celebrations on television. The Queen visited the Duke the following day.\n\nThat same evening, a pre-recorded message by the Queen was released and aired on television around the world. Elizabeth stated: \"the events that I have attended to mark my Diamond Jubilee have been a humbling experience\" and also expressed her thanks to those who had organised the celebrations over the extended weekend, ending by saying: \"I will continue to treasure and draw inspiration from the countless kindnesses shown to me in this country and throughout the Commonwealth. Thank you all.\"\n\nQuentin Bryce, the Governor-General of Australia, announced that the Diamond Jubilee would be celebrated \"with a host of national and community events throughout the Commonwealth.\" In a similar vein, it was said in late 2011 that the government of Queensland was planning to declare a holiday in June 2012 to mark the jubilee.\n\nThe Royal Australian Mint announced in August 2011 that it would be releasing a silver proof 50-cent coin to celebrate the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. Australia Post issued a series of special stamps to mark the occasion.\n\nPaying tribute to Elizabeth II as Queen of Australia in the House of Representatives on 6 February 2012, Prime Minister of Australia Julia Gillard stated the Queen was a revered figure in Australia. Gillard also announced that she would on 4 June light a beacon atop Parliament House and that a street in the parliamentary triangle in Canberra would be renamed \"Queen Elizabeth Terrace\". Meanwhile, Western Australian Premier Colin Barnett announced on 28 May that a new waterfront development in Perth would be named Elizabeth Quay in the Queen's honour.\n\nA detachment of the New South Wales Mounted Police performed at the Diamond Jubilee Pageant held at Windsor Castle in May 2012. At the end of the same month, Prince Charles presented Diamond Jubilee medals to those in the Victoria Cross and George Cross Association, including three Australian Victoria Cross recipients.\n\nA special ecumenical service was conducted in St James' Church, Sydney, at which the invited preacher was Cardinal George Pell and the Governor of New South Wales, Marie Bashir, was the guest of honour. The Anglican Church of Australia also held a service of prayer and thanksgiving to commemorate the Diamond Jubilee at St John's Cathedral in Brisbane, on 20 May 2012. The service was welcomed by Phillip Aspinall, Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane, and the Homily was given by Mark Coleridge, Catholic Archbishop of Brisbane. The guest of honour was the Governor of Queensland, Penelope Wensley, and Ian Walker represented the Queensland Cabinet.\n\nBetween 5 and 10 November 2012, Charles, Prince of Wales, and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, toured the country, travelling to Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, New South Wales, and the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nPrince Harry toured The Bahamas. There, he attended a reception for youth leaders and met with Governor-General of the Bahamas Sir Arthur Foulkes. The Prince attended an outdoor ceremony where children's schools, clubs, and associations presented themselves and delivered a speech at Government House, where he stated \"I stand before you with a deep sense of pride at being asked to convey to you a message of good wishes from The Queen on the occasion of her Diamond Jubilee.\" He also took part in maritime exercises organised by the Royal Bahamas Defence Force and toured Harbour Island.\n\nTo mark Elizabeth II's 60 years as Barbados' monarch—as Queen of the United Kingdom between 1952 and 1966 and as Queen of Barbados thereafter—the country hosted the Queen's youngest son and his wife, the Earl and Countess of Wessex, between 23 and 24 February 2012. The tour began with the Earl and Countess arriving, aboard RFA \"Fort Rosalie\", at the Deep Water Harbour of Bridgetown, where Barbadian military personnel were given inspection. To a joint sitting of the Parliament of Barbados, the Earl read a written message from the Queen, in which the monarch stated she has taken note of the level of development Barbados had achieved during its 45 years of independence and called the country a model small state for others around the world. Parliamentary officials responded with thanks to the Queen for her service to the country and Barbadians and invited her to the island to celebrate the 375th anniversary of the establishment of the Barbadian parliament in 2014. The visiting royal couple opened an exhibit at the University of the West Indies, Cave Hill Campus, and an official state dinner and reception was held at Government House in the evening.\n\nThe following day, the Countess visited the Albert C. Graham Children's Development Centre at Ladymeade Gardens, while the Earl presented eight Duke of Edinburgh's Gold Awards to Barbadian youth at a dedication ceremony. Directly following, the couple travelled together to a ceremony to commemorate the Diamond Jubilee, where a plaque was unveiled at the Kensington Oval cricket stadium. Other events included the Earl and Countess lunching with Prime Minister Freundel Stuart at his residence, Ilaro Court, and touring several areas of Bridgetown that were added to UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites in 2011.\n\nAs in other Commonwealth realms, a set of commemorative Diamond Jubilee stamps were released by the Barbados Postal Service. An ecumenical thanksgiving service was held at the St. Mary's Anglican Church in Bridgetown on 3 June and a beacon lighting at the Garrison Savannah the following day, where an official Trooping of the Colour was performed by the Barbados Defence Force and military tattoo performed by the Royal Barbados Police Force. Members of the Barbados Boys Scout Association with high honours were chosen to aid in the actual beacon lighting.\n\nIn Belize, the Governor-General-in-Council and the Belize Tourism Board organised a tour of the country by Prince Harry, between 2 and 3 March 2012, as part of the country's celebrations of Elizabeth II's 60th year as monarch of Belize, first as Queen of the United Kingdom and then, after 1981, as Queen of Belize. Harry visited Belmopan and San Ignacio where ceremonies and events had less emphasis on state protocol. In the capital, Harry unveiled a series of commemorative stamps issued by the Belize Postal Service, attended the city's street festival, and dedicated a street as \"Queen Elizabeth II Boulevard\", where he delivered a speech on the sovereign's behalf.\n\nForethought on the anniversary began as early as April 2007, when then-Secretary of State for Canadian Heritage Jason Kenney requested the various lieutenant governors begin preparations for the jubilee. Three years later, the question of a national holiday to mark the jubilee was raised in the media and a series of official announcements were made by the Minister of Canadian Heritage.\nThe Secretary to the Queen, Kevin S. MacLeod, was charged by the Governor General-in-Council to head the Diamond Jubilee Committee (DJC)—a 14-member group of individuals drawn from the provincial and territorial governments, non-governmental organisations, officials from the Departments of Citizenship and Immigration, National Defence, and Canadian Heritage (DCH), and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police—that oversaw the organisation of the country's fêtes for Elizabeth II's 60 years as Queen of Canada. Similarly, Premier of Alberta Ed Stelmach in February 2011 tasked the Alberta Chief of Protocol and the Private Secretary to the Lieutenant Governor of Alberta to form and head a committee to develop plans for the province's Diamond Jubilee celebrations. As with other royal events, the DCH played a large role in organisation and planning. $7.5 million of resources, granted to the DCH in the previous budget approved by the federal parliament, was allocated for federal jubilee celebrations, education and awareness, and distribution to community groups; $2 million was for events in the Queen's honour and $3.7 million was allocated for the Diamond Jubilee medal. The total amount was reduced by Minister of Canadian Heritage James Moore from the DJC's original estimate of $8.8 million.\n\nThe Queen, on 3 July 2010, dedicated the Queen Elizabeth II Gardens outside her official residence in Manitoba and there planted an Amber Jubilee Ninebark shrub, the cultivar having been created specifically for the Diamond Jubilee. At Rideau Hall in Ottawa, she also, on 30 June, unveiled a commemorative stained glass window depicting herself and Queen Victoria with their respective royal cyphers and renditions of the Centre Block of the Canadian parliament during the reign of each monarch. The window, a gift from the Canadian Senate, was installed above the Senate entrance to the Centre Block and dedicated by Governor General David Johnston on 7 February 2012.\n\nA corbel within the Sovereigns' Arches of the Senate foyer was sculpted into a rendition of the Queen and unveiled on 9 December 2010 by the Governor General. The Royal Canadian Mint also issued an \"extensive set\" of coins to mark the anniversary. Further, the Royal Regiment of Canadian Artillery (RRCA) in 2011 presented the Queen, their captain-general since 1952, with a diamond and gold brooch, made by Birks & Mayors in the form of the regiment's cap badge, and announced the creation of The Captain General's Diamond Jubilee Bursary Award for educational activities of members of the RRCA and family.\n\nDiamond Jubilee Week began on Accession Day (6 February) 2012. That day, the monarch's personal standard for Canada was unfurled at Rideau Hall and on Parliament Hill, as well as at provincial royal residences and legislatures across the country; permission was granted by the Queen to break the usual protocol of flying the banner only where the sovereign is physically present. At noon on the same day, the Peace Tower carillon played a tribute to Elizabeth II. The Prime Minister and the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada issued statements commending the Queen for her six decades of \"dedicated service to our country, to the Commonwealth and to the world.\"\n\nAlso on 6 and 7 February, the first of the 60,000 Canadian Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medals to be distributed to citizens and permanent residents were handed out by lieutenant governors, commissioners, and other dignitaries across the country; 60 individuals were given theirs personally by the Governor General at Rideau Hall. All federal Members of Parliament (MPs) received the award automatically and a few refused, some because they belonged to the Quebec separatist Bloc Québécois, and one because he felt the money being spent by the Crown on jubilee events and markers was a waste. Citizens for a Canadian Republic claimed that day that the government's spending of money on the Queen's jubilee was to be expected \"from the personality cult dynasties of North Korea or Syria\". The Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society claimed it would stage \"counter-celebrations\".\n\nIn Nova Scotia, the provincial government announced the establishment of educational programmes related to the Queen and her role in Canadian government and the one-time award of the $2000 Diamond Jubilee Award Scholarship to 60 Grade 12 students in the province. There and in other provinces and territories, various events were held on Accession Day, other days during Diamond Jubilee Week, and past its end. The Speaker of the Senate, Noël Kinsella, and Speaker of the House of Commons, Andrew Scheer, were received by the Queen at Buckingham Palace on 21 February 2012, where they presented a loyal address to the sovereign. The Canadian Postal Museum also opened on 19 March the exhibition Designed for a Queen, which displayed 645 postal portraits of the Queen from Canada, other Commonwealth of Nations countries, and British Overseas Territories.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales, and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, toured parts of the country in May, making stops in New Brunswick, Ontario, and Saskatchewan. In an editorial he wrote for \"The Globe and Mail\", Charles stated he wanted his activities during the tour to reflect the jubilee's \"central theme of service to others\" and expressed that he was \"returning to Canada in this special Jubilee year, to renew my own pledge of service and to encourage others to consider how they might contribute their own particular talent\". In that vein, he in all three provinces visited with people associated with his organisation The Prince's Charities Canada and presented Diamond Jubilee Medals to recipients.\n\nThe couple arrived at Saint John Airport on the evening of 20 May. The following day, they were formally welcomed by the Governor General and met at Canadian Forces Base Gagetown with young Canadian Forces veterans and mentors involved in the Military Entrepreneurship program before moving on to Saint John. There, they undertook a walking tour of Prince William Street to observe heritage projects and meet the 2002 Committee for the Prince of Wales Municipal Heritage Leadership Prize, participated in a citizenship ceremony, attended Victoria Day events, and opened the Diamond Jubilee IT Centre at Hazen-White-St. Francis School. They then flew on to Toronto to meet with emergency workers and their families and observe the annual fireworks show at Ashbridges Bay that marks Victoria Day and the Queen's official Canadian birthday.\nOn 22 May, the couple attended an event hosted by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario at Queen's Park. After, the Duchess visited The Queen's Own Rifles of Canada, of which she is colonel-in-chief, laying at the armoury a wreath in memory of fallen Canadian soldiers, while the Prince of Wales saw the Digital Media Zone at Ryerson University, toured the construction site of the athletes' village for the 2015 Pan American Games (where Premier of Ontario Dalton McGuinty announced a portion of Front Street running through the village would be named \"Diamond Jubilee Promenade\"), visited the Yonge Street Mission, and met with the national leadership of the Assembly of First Nations. The couple also attended a luncheon hosted by the government of Ontario and participated in a Canadian Forces event at Fort York commemorating the 200th anniversary of the War of 1812, the Prince there wearing his uniform of a lieutenant-general of the Canadian Army.\n\nThey arrived in Regina on 23 May and marked the centenary of Saskatchewan's legislative building, participated in a reception held by the Lieutenant Governor of Saskatchewan at Government House, toured the First Nations University of Canada, and visited an environmentally friendly water purification plant. In the evening, the Prince and Duchess attended at the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) Depot Division Drill Hall a performance of the Regina Symphony Orchestra, of which Prince Charles is patron. There, the Prime Minister announced that Charles was to be appointed Honorary Commissioner of the RCMP, taking the post from his mother, the Queen, who became the RCMP's Commissioner-in-Chief.\n\nNew Democratic Party MP Pat Martin, an open anti-monarchist, stated in the House of Commons that the tour was \"a bread-and-circuses routine\" intended to distract from cuts to the federal civil service. The Minister of Canadian Heritage, James Moore, said the tour would be the \"least expensive for taxpayers\" of those that had taken place since 2009.\n\nAt the Queen's request, members of the RCMP's Musical Ride, after performing in the Diamond Jubilee Pageant at Windsor Castle, took part in the Changing of the Guard on 23 May as they formed the Queen's Life Guard outside Buckingham Palace for 24 hours. Said by the contingent's commander to be a \"way for Canada and the Mounties to salute her Majesty the Queen in her Diamond Jubilee year\", it was the second time the RCMP had performed the task since doing so as a part of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations for Queen Victoria in 1897.\nIn the federal parliament on 31 May, a loyal address to the Queen was passed. The Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba held a Diamond Jubilee garden party at the province's Government House on 26 May. The Royal British Columbia Museum on 1 June opened an exhibition of approximately 100 Cecil Beaton photographs of Elizabeth II throughout her life.\nA team of Canadian and British mountaineers reached the summit of Mount Barbeau, in Canada's arctic, by 3 June and there held a tea party in celebration of the jubilee. From the summit, they sent a loyal greeting to the Queen via satellite, to which the monarch promised to reply. The next day, a group from the Royal Canadian Dragoons stationed in Afghanistan climbed with British soldiers to the peak of the 7,000 foot mountain Gharib Ghar, within the Kabul Military Training Center, \"as part of the Diamond Jubilee celebrations for Queen Elizabeth II.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Canada House held a Big Jubilee Lunch on 3 June and two beacons were lit on the building's roof the following evening, the night of the Diamond Jubilee Concert. Johnston attended both events and Harper was at the latter. Another reception was held at Canada House on the evening of 6 June, at which the Governor General and Prince Andrew, Duke of York, were present.\nHarper was granted an audience with the Queen at Buckingham Palace on 5 June. Also at the palace, the Governor General, the Prime Minister, and the Queen unveiled a new portrait of the sovereign commissioned by the federal Crown-in-Council and painted by Canadian painter Phil Richards. The creation of the portrait became the subject of a National Film Board of Canada (NFB) documentary directed by Hubert Davis and released in the fall of 2012 as part of the NFB's \"Queen's Diamond Jubilee Collector's Edition\". The painting was on 25 June installed in the ballroom at Rideau Hall. Dedicated at the same time by the Governor General were new bronze and glass handrails, with detailing evoking the Diamond Jubilee, flanking the ceremonial staircase in Rideau Hall's main entrance foyer.\n\nOn 12 June 2012, the government of the Northwest Territories (NWT) and the City of Yellowknife held at the Northern Arts and Cultural Centre a garden party with barbecue, concert, and other activities. On 14 June, Amber Jubilee Ninebark shrubs were planted on the grounds of the NWT legislative assembly. Four days later, a gala concert was held at Roy Thomson Hall in Toronto, at which 600 diamond jubilee medals were awarded to members of the Order of Canada and Order of Ontario. The event, hosted by the Lieutenant Governor of Ontario, was attended by the Governor General and his wife and performers included the Famous People Players, Susan Aglukark, Molly Johnson, Ben Heppner, and Gordon Lightfoot, who conceived the idea of the event.\n\nThe Lieutenant Governor of Saskatchewan held a garden party at Government House on Canada Day and, in the Northwest Territories, the Canada Day parade was themed to celebrate the jubilee and numerous jubilee medal presentation ceremonies took place. Also on 1 July, the Canadian Museum of Civilization opened the exhibit \"A Queen and Her Country\", showing artefacts from the Crown Collection relating to Queen Elizabeth II and her role as Queen of Canada, including the Queen's Beasts from her coronation. At Rideau Hall on 11 September, a reception, attended by the Governor General; his wife; Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex; Sophie, Countess of Wessex; and others, was held for the Royal Victorian Order Association of Canada and to \"honour of the 60th anniversary of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II’s accession to the Throne.\" The Earl also distributed Diamond Jubilee Medals to recipients in Toronto and to members of the RCMP in Iqaluit, Nunavut. The government of the NWT held through September an essay contest for youth to explain \"how the Queen is important to First Nations and Métis people.\"\n\nA conference on the Canadian Crown was conducted in Saskatchewan on 25 October. The Governor General the following day unveiled a plaque identifying the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Trail, a part of the Trans Canada Trail between the West Block on Parliament Hill and the Supreme Court of Canada. In Nova Scotia, highway 106 was renamed as \"Jubilee Highway\". Communities across Canada also held events to mark the jubilee, as did the federal government until the jubilee celebration ended on Accession Day 2013.\n\nPrince Harry toured Jamaica between 5 and 8 March 2012, participating in various events marking his grandmother's Diamond Jubilee as Jamaica's queen regnant, first as Queen of the United Kingdom, between 1952 and 1962, and subsequently as Queen of Jamaica (Jamaica will also thus be concurrently celebrating 50 years of independence). During the tour, the Prince partook in military exercises with the Jamaica Defence Force, visited Bustamante Hospital for Children and, in Trelawny Parish, visited Water Square, Falmouth Pier, and the William Knibb Baptist Church, where he paid respect at the William Knibb memorial. The Prince attended an event for the charity Rise Life, ran with Usain Bolt at the latter's training ground at the University of the West Indies, Mona. There, he was also named an Honorary Fellow of the university. A Jamaica Night reception was held at the Royal Caribbean Hotel in Montego Bay and Governor-General of Jamaica Sir Patrick Allen hosted a dinner at King's House as a combined celebration of the Diamond Jubilee and Jamaica's 50th anniversary of independence. The Prime Minister, Portia Simpson Miller, stated the tour was intended to \"highlight the country's tourism developments on the North Coast and the important work being done in the area of youth and children.\"\n\nThe Governor-General and his wife travelled to London, United Kingdom (UK), to partake in various events there in June, including a reception held by the High Commissioner of Jamaica to the UK. Jamaica's Diamond Jubilee celebrations proceeded despite Miller's ongoing work to have the country become a republic.\n\nSir Jerry Mateparae, the Governor-General of New Zealand, unveiled New Zealand's Diamond Jubilee emblem on 27 November 2011 and announced at that time that a full programme would be forthcoming. New Zealand Post and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand stated in January 2012 the release a silver proof dollar coin to celebrate the Queen's Diamond Jubilee and, the following month, the Ministry for Culture and Heritage added Crown-related entries to and an essay on the jubilee to NZ.History.net.nz. The New Zealand post also issued sets of Diamond Jubilee stamps showing images of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip throughout her reign.\n\nPrime Minister John Key moved a motion in the House of Representatives congratulating the Queen on her Diamond Jubilee on 7 February. The Governor-General-in-Council also launched, two days later, via the Ministry of Health, the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Research Grant, \"seeking to purchase research projects that transfer knowledge from initiatives with proven effectiveness, into practice in the health sector\".\n\nThe New Zealand Army Band took part in the Diamond Jubilee Pageant held at Windsor Castle and also took part in the changing of guard ceremony at Buckingham Palace. In New Zealand, \"New Zealand Herald\" opinion columnist Jim Hopkins was critical of the jubilee celebrations held over the Queen's Birthday weekend, calling it a \"missed opportunity\". He was also critical of TVNZ's lack of jubilee related content in its daily news broadcast.\n\nA royal tour was undertaken by Charles, Prince of Wales, and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, between 10 and 16 November 2012. travelling to Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, and Manawatu. Their programme is to focus on excellence and innovation in business, agriculture, community service, and sports, as well as children's literacy and animal health.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales, and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, toured Papua New Guinea between 3 and 5 November. During their time in the country, the couple met church, charity, and community volunteers, cultural groups, and members of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force in and near Port Moresby.\n\nPrince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, visited the Solomon Islands and Tuvalu.\n\nThe Queen's realms throughout the Caribbean and West Indies planned a number of Diamond Jubilee events. Using RFA \"Fort Rosalie\", Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex, and Sophie, Countess of Wessex, visited other Caribbean realms, including: Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat and Saint Lucia.\n\nHistorical re-enactments were put on in Saint Kitts and Nevis for the Earl and Countess of Wessex, who arrived on 3 March 2012. There, the couple met with Governor-General Sir Cuthbert Sebastian, Prime Minister Denzil Douglas, and other dignitaries, watched cultural shows (including the performance of a calypso song about the Queen), and the Earl unveiled a plaque commemorating the Diamond Jubilee and officially designated the Basseterre Valley Park as the Royal Basseterre Valley Park. They also visited Brimstone Hill Fortress National Park and the children's ward of the JNF Hospital and the Children's Home before attending a state dinner and fireworks display at Port Zante.\n\nThe Earl and Countess of Wessex arrived in Saint Lucia on 21 February 2012 and there participated in Independence Day celebrations and attended receptions held by the Governor-General of Saint Lucia. They also visited the Association of Saint Lucia and the Saint Lucia School of Music.\n\nIn Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, a Diamond Jubilee Celebrations Committee was established to oversee events staged to mark, between February and June 2012, the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II's accession as queen regnant of the country, from 1952 to 1979 as Queen of the United Kingdom and thereafter as Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. The committee head, former Minister of Culture Rene Baptiste, stated the aim was to \"showcase what we have to offer, as well as our loyalty to the Parliament...\" The Earl and Countess of Wessex, aboard RFA \"Fort Rosalie\", arrived for their tour of country on 25 February and visited the restored Botanic Gardens St. Vincent and planted a Pink Poui tree, attended an official lunch at Government House, and planted Royal Palms on the Grenadines.\n\nTrade unionist Noel Jackson said he heard displeasure expressed by Vincentians towards the royal tour and that \"a lot of people were cursing.\" Senator Julian Francis, the General Secretary of the governing Unity Labour Party, stated the public reaction to the presence of the royal couple \"confirmed to me that we could not have won the 2009 referendum on a republic. The outpouring of the people in St. Vincent to come and greet Prince Edward yesterday confirmed to me that people, in the majority in St. Vincent, still want the monarchy... It was like a carnival in town yesterday.\"\n\nA Diamond Jubilee Lecture was delivered in March, a flower show and tea party was held at Government House on 4 and 5 May, a stamp exhibition was mounted at the National Trust headquarters and an exhibition of photographs of the Queen in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was displayed at the National Public Library. A Queen's Birthday parade took place, as did a Diamond Jubilee Beacon Event on 4 June, part of the wider plan to light such beacons at the same time across the Commonwealth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, national and regional events to mark the Diamond Jubilee were coordinated by the Queen-in-Council and her Royal Household at Buckingham Palace. As with the Golden Jubilee in 2002, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport was responsible for coordinating the Cabinet-led aspects of the celebrations. Events were planned so as to keep the use of tax money to a minimum; most funds used to fund celebrations were drawn from private donors and sponsors. Only the cost of security was by Her Majesty's Treasury. The British logo for the Diamond Jubilee was selected through a contest held by the BBC children's programme \"Blue Peter\"; the winning design, announced in February 2011, was created by ten-year-old Katherine Dewar. Drupal, a free open-source content management system, was used for the official website.\n\nOn 5 January 2010, the Lord President of the Council and Business Secretary Lord Mandelson announced that an extra bank holiday would take place on 5 June 2012. Moving the Spring Bank Holiday (the last Monday in May) to 4 June resulted in a four-day holiday in honour of the Diamond Jubilee. As national holidays are a devolved matter, Scotland's first minister confirmed that the bank holiday would be held on 5 June in Scotland. Some economists later theorised that the holiday could reduce the country's gross domestic product by 0.5% in the second quarter of the year, though this would be partially offset by increased sales for the hospitality and merchandise sectors.\nMany events were staged in London during the bank holiday weekend. The River Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant was held on 3 June; a maritime parade of 1,000 boats from around the Commonwealth—the largest flotilla seen on the river in 350 years—together with other celebrations along the river banks. Heavy rain started during the event and the commemorative airforce flyover at the end was cancelled due to very low cloud base and bad visibility at ground level. Along with almost all members of the Royal Family, various governors-general from the Commonwealth realms other than the UK were in attendance. The Diamond Jubilee Concert, with a preceding afternoon picnic in the palace gardens for the 10,000 concert ticket holders, was held the following day, in front of Buckingham Palace, and featured acts representing each decade of the Queen's 60-year reign.\n\nStreet parties were permitted to take place across the country. Special community lottery grants, called \"The Jubilee People's Millions\", are being offered by the Big Lottery Fund and ITV.\n\nMembers of the Royal Family, governors-general, and prime ministers from the Commonwealth realms were present at various functions held on 4 and 5 June: A reception took place at Buckingham Palace before the Diamond Jubilee Concert and a service of thanksgiving was conducted the following day at St. Paul's Cathedral, also attended by 2,000 other guests. Will Todd's anthem \"The Call of Wisdom\", commissioned specially for this event, was performed by the Diamond Choir, made up of about 40 children from around the UK. The Archbishop of Canterbury dedicated his sermon to the Queen, during which he noted her \"lifelong dedication\" and stated that she \"has made her 'public' happy and all the signs are that she is herself happy, fulfilled and at home in these encounters.\" Afterwards, a formal lunch was held in Westminster Hall. The Queen returned to Buckingham Palace at 2:20 pm, in an open top carriage procession and escorted by The Household Cavalry Regiment. Another reception was held at London's Guildhall and a luncheon took place at Lancaster House, hosted by the British Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs. A reception solely for governors-general was held by the Queen at Buckingham Palace.\n\nThe weekend of celebrations ended with a balcony appearance at Buckingham Palace. The Queen appeared on the balcony with the Prince of Wales, the Duchess of Cornwall, the Duke of Cambridge, the Duchess of Cambridge, and Prince Harry in front of cheering crowds outside the palace and along The Mall. There followed a feu de joie and a flypast by the Red Arrows and historic aircraft, including the last flying Lancaster bomber in Britain. Several media commentators commented on the significance of only senior members of the royal family appearing on the balcony. BBC royal correspondent Peter Hunt remarked that it \"sent a message demonstrating both continuity and restraint at a time of austerity\".\n\nTo mark the jubilee, the Queen bestowed Royal Borough status on Greenwich, in southeast London. In addition, a competition was held to grant in 2012 city status to towns and either a lord mayoralty or lord provostship to one city. City status was awarded to Chelmsford in England, Perth in Scotland and St Asaph in Wales. Armagh, Northern Ireland, was awarded the Lord Mayoralty.\n\nThe Olympic park in East London, created for the 2012 London Olympics, was named the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park following the Olympics. The Queen Elizabeth II Fields Challenge (Queen Elizabeth Fields Challenge in Scotland) was a project of the charity Fields in Trust to safeguard parks and green spaces as public recreation land in perpetuity for future generations to enjoy, and to provide a permanent legacy of the Diamond Jubilee and the Olympics. The Woodland Trust planned to establish 60 Jubilee woodlands during 2011 and 2012, one of almost 500 acres – Flagship Diamond Wood, Leicestershire – and the remainder 60 acres each.\n\nA stained glass window, paid for by MPs and members of the House of Lords, was unveiled in the Queen's presence at Westminster Hall in March 2012. In addition, a majority of MPs endorsed the renaming of the clock tower of Westminster Palace that houses Big Ben, to the Elizabeth Tower.\nThe Royal Jubilee Bells, made for the Jubilee and a feature of the Thames Diamond Jubilee Pageant, were delivered to the church of St James Garlickhythe in the City of London on 15 June 2012 and arranged along the central aisle. They were dedicated by the Rt Revd John Waine on Sunday 17 June and hanging commenced in the tower shortly thereafter. They were rung for the first time in the church on 4 July.\n\nThe Royal Mint issued a number of coins including an official £5 coin, a 5oz coin and a kilo coin. A five-pound sterling silver coin was issued by the Government of Gibraltar to mark the occasion.\n\nIn October 2012 it was announced that the Queen would bestow the honorary title of Regius Professorship to up to six university chairs in the United Kingdom, to recognise \"excellence in teaching and research\"; the number was chosen to represent the decades of the Queen's reign. The full list was announced on 29 January 2013 and comprised twelve new chairs, in recognition of the \"exceptionally high quality\" of the departments considered.\n\nKew Gardens announced that the Main Gate, the entrance to the gardens from Kew Green, was to be renamed Elizabeth Gate in honour of the Queen. Princess Alexandra attended the naming ceremony on 21 October 2012.\n\nOn 18 December 2012, the British Foreign Office announced that a portion of the British Antarctic Territory was to be named Queen Elizabeth Land in honour of Her Majesty in her diamond jubilee year.\n\nA seemingly less permanent tribute that gained widespread popularity was a work provided by street artist Banksy. His \"Slave Labour\" stencil on a north London wall offered pointed criticism of the jubilee celebrations and the conditions that support British nationalism. The mural's removal and subsequent attempted sale at auction in February 2013 sparked international controversy, highlighting the piece's worth to local and regional residents. Its title, perhaps coincidentally, conjured another contentious part of the celebrations where unemployed workers, bussed into London on an allegedly unpaid trial to staff security for the event, were made to work under what some described as \"appalling\" conditions.\n\nOn Accession Day, 6 February, a 62-gun salute was mounted on the banks of the River Thames, near the Tower of London and the Queen made a visit to Norfolk, one of the first places the monarch visited after acceding to the throne. Later in the month, Queen Elizabeth attended a multi-faith (Bahá'í, Buddhist, Christian, Hindu, Jain, Jewish, Muslim, Sikh, and Zoroastrian) reception held at the residence of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lambeth Palace, in honour of the jubilee.\n\nThe Queen addressed both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall on 20 March 2012. Also in March, the Royal Commonwealth Society launched the Jubilee Time Capsule to mark the jubilee. The British Broadcasting Corporation and Andrew Marr created the television documentary \"The Diamond Queen\", in which various members of the Royal Family and current and former politicians spoke about the Sovereign and her life. The documentary was criticised by the campaign group Republic, which argued that it breached BBC guidelines on impartiality.\n\nAt Buckingham Palace, a display of the Queen's diamonds was opened to the public. On 4 June, the bells in each of the 34 church bell towers along the River Welland valley rang in succession, ending with the ringing of the bell at Fosdyke 60 times.\n\nOn 19 May, the Queen attended the Diamond Jubilee Armed Forces Parade and Muster, the British Armed Forces' own tribute to the monarch, in Windsor Castle and nearby Home Park. The first time all three services had assembled for the Queen for such an event at the same time, it featured military reviews and a 2,500 strong military parade through the town, as well as a military flypast featuring 78 aircraft.\n\nPrince Richard, Duke of Gloucester, toured the British Virgin Islands (BVI) in March 2012. On Montserrat, he met participants in the Sailability BVI programme, including Special Olympics medallists, and staff and associates of the Eslyn Henley Ritchie Learning Centre, BVI Technical and Vocational Institute, BVI Services, and the Department of Youth Affairs and Sports.\n\nPrince Edward, Earl of Wessex, and Sophie, Countess of Wessex, visited the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar, between 11–13 June 2012, and Montserrat. The Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation expressed \"upset and concern\" about the couple's tour of Gibraltar, which Spain claims as Spanish territory.\n\nVisits were planned by Princess Anne to Zambia and Mozambique, while the Duke of Gloucester made official visits to Uganda and Malta. In Asia, Prince Andrew, Duke of York, visited India, while Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, visited Malaysia, Singapore, and the Solomon Islands.\n\nPrince Edward, Earl of Wessex, and Sophie, Countess of Wessex, visited Trinidad and Tobago, as did Governor General of Canada David Johnston.\n\nThe British Consulate in Cape Town, in conjunction with the Hout Bay and Llandudno Heritage Trust, hosted a firing of ancient muzzle-loading cannons at East Fort in Hout Bay. The Hout Bay and Llandudno Heritage Trust restored the Fort's original Swedish made 18 pounder muzzle-loading cannons, dating from 1752, and fired two rolling salvo salutes, of six cannon shots each, in the Queen’s honour and in recognition of the bond of friendship between South Africa and Great Britain. The South African Navy Band was in attendance and the guns were fired by VIPs who were guided by gunners of the \"Honourable Order of Hout Bay Artillerymen\".\n\nAt the Victoria and Alfred Waterfront of the Port of Cape Town, a flotilla from the Royal Cape Yacht Club sailed past the Hildebrand Ristorante and into-the Victoria Basin and the Cape Town Highlanders marched from Ferryman's to Nobel Square. British Consul General Chris Trott lit a beacon, followed by a further six-gun salute and both South African national anthem and \"God Save the Queen\", to mark the 60 years of Queen Elizabeth II's service to her people and the people of the world.\n\nHong Kong, a British dependent territory until 1997 and the most populous one, had The Big Jubilee Lunch on 3 June 2012, organised by the Royal Commonwealth Society in Hong Kong. On 5 June 2012, there was a service of thanksgiving at the territory's Anglican Cathedral Church of St. John the Evangelist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8603776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8603776", "title": "Digital Classicist", "text": "Digital Classicist\n\nThe Digital Classicist is a community of those interested in the application of Digital Humanities to the field of Classics and to ancient world studies more generally. The project claims the twin aims of bringing together scholars and students with an interest in computing and the ancient world, and disseminating advice and experience to the Classics discipline at large. The Digital Classicist was founded in 2005 as a collaborative project based at King's College London and the University of Kentucky, with editors and advisors from the Classics discipline at large.\n\nMany notable Classicists and Digital Humanists are on the advisory board of the Digital Classicist, including Richard Beacham (of the King's Visualisation Lab), Alan Bowman (Professor of Ancient History at University of Oxford), Gregory Crane (of the Perseus Project), Bernard Frischer (of the Virtual World Heritage Laboratory), Michael Fulford (Professor of Archaeology and Pro-Vice-Chancellor at University of Reading), Willard McCarty (winner of the Lyman Award and Professor of Humanities Computing at Department of Digital Humanities), James O'Donnell (Provost of Georgetown University), Silvio Panciera (of University of Rome La Sapienza) and Boris Rankov (Professor of Ancient History at Royal Holloway, University of London). A former member was the late Ross Scaife (Stoa Consortium and University of Kentucky).\n\nThe Digital Classicist community have taken an active role in posting news to the long-standing blog of the Stoa Consortium, which concerns itself with both Classical and Digital Humanities topics. A particular focus seems to be the Open Source and Creative Commons movements, and various communities of scholars with digital interests.\n\nThe Digital Classicist discussion list is hosted by JISCmail in the UK. Most list traffic consists of announcements and calls, with occasional flurries of more involved discussion.\n\nThe main website of the Digital Classicist is a gateway containing links to the Digital Classicist Wiki and other resources, including listings for seminars and conference panels. The seminar programmes include: abstract, slides (in pdf), audio (in mp3) and, from 2013, video recordings.\n\nThe project Wiki contains lists of digital Classics projects, software tools that have been made available for classicists, and a FAQ that solicits collaborative community advice on a range of topics from simple questions about, e.g., Greek fonts and Unicode, word-processing and printing issues, to more advanced Humanities Computing questions and project management advice. The Wiki is hosted on the servers of the Centre for Computing in the Humanities at King's College London\n\nThe members of the Digital Classicist community also report quite heavily on any conference and seminar activity that they take to reflect well on the project as a whole. Among the events cited are a series of summer seminars which have run each year since 2006 at the Institute of Classical Studies in London, and panels at the Classical Association Annual Conference in Birmingham 2007 Glasgow 2009, and Durham 2011 and the Digital Resources in the Humanities and Arts conference in September 2008. The Project was also among the sponsors of the Open Source Critical Editions workshop in 2006. In 2008 the Digital Medievalist published a collaborative issue of Digital Classicist articles in memory of Ross Scaife. A collection of papers from the 2007 seminar series and conference panels have been published by Ashgate: \"Digital Research in the Study of Classical Antiquity\" (Bodard and Mahony (eds) 2010). More recent papers have been collected together in a \"Bulletin of the Institute of Classical Studies\": Mahony and Dunn (eds) 2013\"The Digital Classicist 2013\" (2013) London BICS Supplement-122 Institute of Classical Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39419474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39419474", "title": "Dzianis Liseichykau", "text": "Dzianis Liseichykau\n\nDzianis Liseichykau (Дзяніс ЛІСЕЙЧЫКАЎ) (born 4 September 1979) is a Belarusian historian and archivist.\n\nLiseichykau completed a degree in History at Belarusian State University in 2001. He received a Ph.D. in History from the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus in 2009.\n\nHe has worked at the National Historical Archives of Belarus since 2002. In 2009 he became Head of the Department of Scientific Use of Documents and Information. In 2012 he accepted appointment as Deputy Director of NHAB.\n\nHis research interests are in the history of the Uniate Church (c. 1596-1839), the history of everyday life, genealogy and ecclesiastical archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "1566140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1566140", "title": "George Kedrenos", "text": "George Kedrenos\n\nGeorge Kedrenos or Cedrenus (, fl. 11th century) was a Byzantine historian. In the 1050s he compiled \"Synopsis historion\" (also known as \"A concise history of the world\"), which spanned the time from the biblical account of creation to his own day. Kedrenos is one of the few sources that discuss Khazar polities in existence after the sack of Atil in 969 (see Georgius Tzul).\n\nMaterial in \"Synopsis historion\" mostly comes from the works by Pseudo-Symeon Magistros (a version of Logothete's chronicle), George Syncellus, Theophanes the Confessor, and, starting from 811, almost exclusively and word-for-word from the chronicle by John Skylitzes.\n\nOne late manuscript of \"Synopsis historion\" preserves a poem (anonymous but thought to be by Kedrenos) that derives his family name from the place where he was born, a small village of Cedrus (or Cedrea) in the Anatolic Theme. The poem also identifies him as a proedrus, a senior court official.\n\nBefore becoming a proedros, Kedrenos may have held the somewhat lower rank of vestarches. Vestarches Georgios Kedrenos is in fact known from a number of 11th12th-century seals found mostly in the Danube region, but also in Crimea. Furthermore, several roughly contemporary seals refer to another court official, a certain \"John Cedrenus, protocuropalates and duke\" who may have been a relative, perhaps, a brother or a cousin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26866554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26866554", "title": "Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Archaeological Achievement", "text": "Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Archaeological Achievement\n\nThe Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Archaeological Achievement is awarded by the Archaeological Institute of America in \"recognition of a scholar who has made distinguished contributions to archaeology through his or her fieldwork, publications, and/or teaching.\"\n\nIt is the Institute's highest award. First awarded in 1965, it has been awarded annually since 1969.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13253", "title": "Henry Mayhew", "text": "Henry Mayhew\n\nHenry Mayhew (25 November 1812 – 25 July 1887) was an English social researcher, journalist, playwright and advocate of reform. He was one of the co-founders of the satirical and humorous magazine \"Punch\" in 1841, and was the magazine's joint-editor, with Mark Lemon, in its early days. He is also known for his work as a social researcher, publishing an extensive series of newspaper articles in the \"Morning Chronicle\" that was later compiled into the book series \"London Labour and the London Poor\" (1851), a groundbreaking and influential survey of the city's poor.\n\nHe was born in London, one of seventeen children of Joshua Mayhew. He was educated at Westminster School before running away from his studies to sea. He then served with the East India Company as a midshipman on a ship bound for Calcutta. He returned after several years, in 1829, becoming a trainee lawyer in Wales. He left this and became a freelance journalist. He contributed to \"The Thief\", a readers' digest, followed quickly by editing a weekly journal – \"Figaro in London\". Mayhew reputedly fled his creditors and holed up at The Erwood Inn, a small public house in the village of Erwood, south of Builth Wells in Wales.\n\nIn 1835 Mayhew found himself in a state of debt and, along with a fellow writer, escaped to Paris to avoid his creditors. He spent his time writing and in the company of other writers including William Thackeray and Douglas Jerrold. Mayhew spent over ten years in Paris returning to England in the 1850s whereby he was involved in several literary adventures, mostly the writing of plays. Two of his plays – \"But, However\" and the \"Wandering Minstrel\" – were successful, whilst his early work \"Figaro in London\" was less successful.\n\nOn 17 July 1841 Mayhew cofounded Punch magazine. At its founding the magazine was jointly edited by Mayhew and Mark Lemon. The two men hired a group of writers and also illustrators to aid them. These included Douglas Jerrold, Angus Reach, John Leech, Richard Doyle and Shirley Brooks. Initially it was subtitled \"The London Charivari\", this being a reference to a satirical humour magazine published in France under the title \"Le Charivari\" (a work read often whilst Mayhew was in Paris). Reflecting their satiric and humorous intent, the two editors took for their name and masthead the anarchic glove puppet Mr. Punch.\n\n\"Punch\" was an unexpected success, selling about 6,000 copies a week in the early years. However, sales of as many as 10,000 issues a week were required to cover all costs of the magazine. In December 1842, the magazine was sold to Bradbury and Evans; Mayhew resigned as joint editor, and he continued at the magazine as \"suggestor in chief\" with Mark Lemon reappointed as editor. Mayhew eventually severed his connection with the magazine, writing his last article in February 1845. His brother Horace stayed on the board of Punch until his own death.\n\nThe \"Punch\" years gave Mayhew the opportunity to meet talented illustrators who he later employed to work from daguerreotypes on \"London Labour and the London Poor\". Following \"Punch\" magazine, Mayhew new launched \"Iron Times\", a railway magazine. However this venture lost Mayhew so much money that he was forced to appear in a Court of Bankruptcy in 1846.\n\nIn 1842 Mayhew contributed to the pioneering Illustrated London News. By this time Mayhew had become reasonably secure financially, had settled his debts and married Jane Jerrold, the daughter of his friend Douglas Jerrold. She lived until 1880.\n\nThe articles comprising \"London Labour and the London Poor\" were initially collected into three volumes in 1851; the 1861 edition included a fourth volume, co-written with Bracebridge Hemyng, John Binny and Andrew Halliday, on the lives of prostitutes, thieves and beggars. This Extra Volume took a more general and statistical approach to its subject than Volumes 1 to 3.\n\nMayhew wrote in volume one: \"\"I shall consider the whole of the metropolitan poor under three separate phases, according as they \"will\" work, they \"can't\" work, and they \"won't\" work\"\". He interviewed everyone—beggars, street-entertainers (such as Punch and Judy men), market traders, prostitutes, labourers, sweatshop workers, even down to the \"mudlarks\" who searched the stinking mud on the banks of the River Thames for wood, metal, rope and coal from passing ships, and the \"pure-finders\" who gathered dog faeces to sell to tanners. He described their clothes, how and where they lived, their entertainments and customs, and made detailed estimates of the numbers and incomes of those practising each trade. The books show how marginal and precarious many people's lives were, in what, at that time, was the richest city in the world.\n\nMayhew's richly detailed descriptions give an impression of what the street markets of his day were like. An example from Volume 1:\n\nSome of the London street traders did not like the way Mayhew wrote about them. In spring/summer 1851 they established a \"Street Trader's Protection Association\" to guard themselves against the journalist.\n\nMayhew was the grandfather of Audrey Mayhew Allen (b. 1870), an author of a number of children's stories published in various periodicals, and of \"Gladys in Grammarland\", an imitation of Lewis Carroll's \"Wonderland\" books.\n\nMayhew's work was embraced by and was an influence on the Christian Socialists, such as Thomas Hughes, Charles Kingsley, and F. D. Maurice. Radicals also published sizeable excerpts from the reports in the Northern Star, the Red Republican, and other newspapers. The often sympathetic investigations, with their immediacy and unswerving eye for detail, offered unprecedented insights into the condition of the Victorian poor. Alongside the earlier work of Edwin Chadwick, they are also regarded as a decisive influence on the thinking of Charles Dickens.\n\nMayhew's work inspired the script of director Christine Edzard's 1990 film \"The Fool\". Mayhew has appeared as a character in television and radio histories of Victorian London ; he was played by Timothy West in the documentary \"London\" (2004), and David Haig in the Afternoon Play \"A Chaos of Wealth and Want\" (2010). In the 2012 novel \"Dodger\" by Terry Pratchett, Mayhew and his wife appear as fictionalised versions of themselves, and he is mentioned in the dedication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2160543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2160543", "title": "Henry Stuart Jones", "text": "Henry Stuart Jones\n\nSir Henry Stuart Jones, FBA (15 May 1867 – 29 June 1939) was a British academic and fellow of Trinity College, University of Oxford, where he held an appointment from 1920 to 1927 as Camden Professor of Ancient History. Originally, Stuart was his second forename, but he and his wife generally prefixed it to their surname, and he was knighted in 1933 under the name Stuart-Jones.\n\nHe attended the British School at Athens and later served as director of the British School at Rome.\n\nStuart Jones began in 1911 the revision of \"A Greek-English Lexicon\", the standard dictionary of ancient Greek, with the assistance of Roderick McKenzie. A preliminary edition was published under the supervision of Stuart Jones and McKenzie in 1925, but the completed revision was published by Oxford University Press in 1940 only after both men's deaths. In a preface to the revision, the Press described Stuart Jones in these terms:\n\nStuart Jones began his relationship with Wales when, in 1927, he became a candidate for the principalship of the University College of Wales at Aberystwyth. His tenure in Wales would prove to be an enthusiastic one: during his time there, he learned the Welsh language and served on the committees of a number of Welsh institutions, including the council of St David's College, Lampeter, as well as Trinity College, Carmarthen, and the National Library of Wales. He also served as vice-chancellor of the federal University of Wales in 1929 and 1930. He was also elected (in 1928) to a Welsh Supernumerary Fellowship of Jesus College, Oxford in his capacity as Principal of the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth.\n\nHe died on 29 June 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "2557305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2557305", "title": "Historical method", "text": "Historical method\n\nHistorical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use primary sources and other evidence, including the evidence of archaeology, to research and then to write histories in the form of accounts of the past. The question of the nature, and even the possibility, of a sound historical method is raised in the philosophy of history as a question of epistemology. The study of historical method and of different ways of writing history is known as historiography.\n\nSource criticism (or information evaluation) is the process of evaluating the qualities of an information source, such as its validity, reliability, and relevance to the subject under investigation.\n\nGilbert J Garraghan divides source criticism into six inquiries:\n\n\nThe first four are known as higher criticism; the fifth, lower criticism; and, together, external criticism. The sixth and final inquiry about a source is called internal criticism. Together, this inquiry is known as source criticism.\n\nR. J. Shafer on external criticism: \"It sometimes is said that its function is negative, merely saving us from using false evidence; whereas internal criticism has the positive function of telling us how to use authenticated evidence.\"\n\nNoting that few documents are accepted as completely reliable, Louis Gottschalk sets down the general rule, \"for each particular of a document the process of establishing credibility should be separately undertaken regardless of the general credibility of the author.\" An author's trustworthiness in the main may establish a background probability for the consideration of each statement, but each piece of evidence extracted must be weighed individually.\n\nBernheim (1889) and Langlois & Seignobos (1898) proposed a seven-step procedure for source criticism in history:\n\n\nSubsequent descriptions of historical method, outlined below, have attempted to overcome the credulity built into the first step formulated by the nineteenth century historiographers by stating principles not merely by which different reports can be harmonized but instead by which a statement found in a source may be considered to be unreliable or reliable as it stands on its own.\n\nThe following core principles of source criticism were formulated by two Scandinavian historians, Olden-Jørgensen (1998) and Thurén (1997):\n\n\nR. J. Shafer offers this checklist for evaluating eyewitness testimony:\n\n\nLouis Gottschalk adds an additional consideration: \"Even when the fact in question may not be well-known, certain kinds of statements are \"both incidental and probable\" to such a degree that error or falsehood seems unlikely. If an ancient inscription on a road tells us that a certain proconsul built that road while Augustus was princeps, it may be doubted without further corroboration that that proconsul really built the road, but would be harder to doubt that the road was built during the principate of Augustus. If an advertisement informs readers that 'A and B Coffee may be bought at any reliable grocer's at the unusual price of fifty cents a pound,' all the inferences of the advertisement may well be doubted without corroboration except that there is a brand of coffee on the market called 'A and B Coffee.'\"\n\nGarraghan says that most information comes from \"indirect witnesses,\" people who were not present on the scene but heard of the events from someone else. Gottschalk says that a historian may sometimes use hearsay evidence when no primary texts are available. He writes, \"In cases where he uses secondary witnesses...he asks: (1) On whose primary testimony does the secondary witness base his statements? (2) Did the secondary witness accurately report the primary testimony as a whole? (3) If not, in what details did he accurately report the primary testimony? Satisfactory answers to the second and third questions may provide the historian with the whole or the gist of the primary testimony upon which the secondary witness may be his only means of knowledge. In such cases the secondary source is the historian's 'original' source, in the sense of being the 'origin' of his knowledge. Insofar as this 'original' source is an accurate report of primary testimony, he tests its credibility as he would that of the primary testimony itself.\" Gottschalk adds, \"Thus hearsay evidence would not be discarded by the historian, as it would be by a law court merely because it is hearsay.\"\n\nGilbert Garraghan maintains that oral tradition may be accepted if it satisfies either two \"broad conditions\" or six \"particular conditions\", as follows:\n\n\nOther methods of verifying oral tradition may exist, such as comparison with the evidence of archaeological remains.\n\nMore recent evidence concerning the potential reliability or unreliability of oral tradition has come out of fieldwork in West Africa and Eastern Europe.\n\nHistorians do allow for the use of anonymous texts to establish historical facts.\n\nOnce individual pieces of information have been assessed in context, hypotheses can be formed and established by historical reasoning.\n\nC. Behan McCullagh lays down seven conditions for a successful argument to the best explanation:\n\n\nMcCullagh sums up, \"if the scope and strength of an explanation are very great, so that it explains a large number and variety of facts, many more than any competing explanation, then it is likely to be true.\"\n\nMcCullagh states this form of argument as follows:\n\n\nMcCullagh gives this example:\n\n\nThis is a syllogism in probabilistic form, making use of a generalization formed by induction from numerous examples (as the first premise).\n\nThe structure of the argument is as follows:\n\n\nMcCullagh says that an argument from analogy, if sound, is either a \"covert statistical syllogism\" or better expressed as an argument to the best explanation. It is a statistical syllogism when it is \"established by a sufficient number and variety of instances of the generalization\"; otherwise, the argument may be invalid because properties 1 through n are unrelated to property \"n\" + 1, unless property \"n\" + 1 is the best explanation of properties 1 through \"n\". Analogy, therefore, is uncontroversial only when used to suggest hypotheses, not as a conclusive argument.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22261920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22261920", "title": "Jim Kepner", "text": "Jim Kepner\n\nJames Lynn Kepner, Jr. (192315 November 1997) was a journalist, author, historian, archivist and leader in the gay rights movement. His work was intertwined with One, Inc. and \"One Magazine\", and eventually contributed to the formation of the ONE National Gay & Lesbian Archives.\n\nJim Kepner was found wrapped in newspaper under an oleander bush in Galveston, Texas in September 1923, aged about eight months. He didn't find out he was adopted until he was nineteen. In 1942, followed his adopted father to San Francisco, where, wandering around the libraries of the city, Kepner could not find anything objective that focused on the way he was. Later, he would record that he had been \"aware of being different from age four.\"\n\nKepner started his career as a clerk for a railroad company in San Francisco, California in the 1940s. He joined the Communist Party USA and wrote for a Communist newspaper in New York City, the \"Daily Worker\". However, he was expelled from the party because of his homosexuality. Instead, he joined the Mattachine Society in Los Angeles, the main gay organization in the United States at the time.\n\nKepner's search for information and then community and culture led him to begin a private collection of gay-related materials unlike anything previously compiled. Upon settling in Los Angeles in the early 1950s, Kepner became an essential part of the emergence of modern gay culture through journalism, writing, activism and pioneering archival work. He became one of the main writers for \"ONE Magazine\". Before falling out with \"ONE\" in 1961, Kepner wrote many of the magazines' articles and served as co-editor of the magazine. \"ONE Magazine's\" documents and Kepner's research materials formed the beginning of today's ONE Archives. He maintained a relationship with ONE throughout his life even as he transferred his collections to his repeatedly renamed archives (Western Gay Archives and then the National Gay Archives and later the International Gay and Lesbian Archives).\n\nSubjects of Kepner's 1950s writings included whether there was such a thing as a \"gay community,\" police actions against the gay community, same-sex marriage, social interaction in the gay community and a whole host of other subjects. As he wrote, he collected, and over five more decades, Kepner was able to amass enormous amounts of essential information on gay life in the United States. As HIV/AIDS ravaged thousands in the 1980s and 1990s, Kepner's efforts became essential as he recorded, memorialized, and documented the vital personal and community response to the epidemic. In a review of Kepner's 1998 book, \"Rough News, Daring Views: 1950s' Pioneer Gay Press Journalism\", historian William Armstrong Percy III wrote, \"the Gay rights movement had three remarkable pioneers. Two—Harry Hay and Dorr Legg—have long been recognized, whereas the contribution of the third—Jim Kepner—has never been adequately documented…\" Percy goes on to say \"Kepner's articles (in the book) record not only the past of the gay rights movement but also its soul.\"\n\nKepner's collection consists of thousands of distinct subject files containing primary and secondary materials such as organizational minutes, newspaper clippings, journal and magazine articles, correspondence, brochures, and other printed and original materials relating to all aspects of the LGBT experience. ONE's Library and Kepner's archives merged in the early 1990s. By the time of Kepner's death, the ONE Archives had evolved into the premier source for gay and lesbian research in the nation.\n\nKepner died on November 15, 1997 at the Midway Hospital in Los Angeles, California. He was 74.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8925289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8925289", "title": "Josef Matoušek", "text": "Josef Matoušek\n\nJosef Matoušek (13 January 1906 Hořice – 17 November 1939 Prague, Czechoslovakia) was a Czech historian and associate professor.\n\nIn November 1939 he participated in preparations for Jan Opletal's funeral. He was arrested by the Gestapo on 17 November 1939 and was executed the same day without trial.\n"}
{"id": "36142564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36142564", "title": "Juha Sihvola", "text": "Juha Sihvola\n\nJuha Sihvola (29 August 1957, Sippola – 14 June 2012, Helsinki) was a Finnish philosopher and historian. He was a University professor of general history from 2000, and part of The Academy of Finland's Centre of Excellence program upon Philosophical Psychology, Morality and Politics, serving as the Deputy Director of the Centre of Excellence from 2008. In the years 2004–2009, he was the Director of Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies.\nSihvola defended his filosofian tohtori (Doctor of Philosophy) at the University of Helsinki on ancient Greek ethics and cultural philosophy, a work entitled, \"Decay, Progress, the Good Life? Hesiod and Protagoras on the Development of Culture\". His supervisors were Simo Knuuttila, Holger Thesleff, Matti Viikari and Päivi Setälä. Sihvola worked as an Academy of Finland research assistant (1983–1988), junior researcher (1988–1994), and senior researcher (1995–2000). He also conducted research in Italy and the United States, where he was a visiting researcher at Brown University(1991–1992), as well as being a junior researcher at the Center for Hellenic Studies in Washington DC (1994–1995). Sihvola taught at the University of Jyväskylä and, amongst other things, at the University of Helsinki's history, philosophy and systematic theology departments.\n\nSihvola worked, amongst other things, as the editor of Historiallinen Aikakauskirja (Historical Periodical) (2001–2005), a member of the Academy of Finland's Research Council for Culture and Society (2001–2006), as well as being a member of the board of Suomen Rooman Instituutin Säätiö (Foundation of the Finnish Historical Institute in Rome) (from 2004), serving as their chairperson from 2007.\n\nSihvola's studies deal with, above all, Ancient Philosophy's history and the effects upon subsequent philosophical thinking. Sihvola also applied creatively Aristotlean and Stoic philosophical ideas to current political and social debate. He discussed the investigation, among other things, of the good life, the ethics of global affairs, the ethics of foreign policy, gender, and the philosophy of religion. He wrote numerous speeches and articles in daily newspapers, in particular, the Helsingin Sanomat, and appeared on radio and television current affairs programs.\n\nSihvola conducted research in collaboration with Simo Knuuttila and the American philosopher Martha Nussbaum. He worked on two Knuuttila-led Academy of Finland Centres of Excellence, \" History of Mind\" (2002–2007) and \"Philosophical Psychology, Morality and Politics\" (Deputy Director, 2008–2012). Together with Nussbaum, Sihvola organized numerous international philosophical conferences from 1991. Sihvola was also Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs-funded research project on ethics in foreign policy (2004–2005).\n\nSihvola's most famous works include \"Toivon vuosituhat\" (The Millennium of Hope) (1998), which won the Vuoden Tiedekirja (The Science Book of the Year) Award, together with a work co-authored with Martha Nussbaum, \"The Sleep of Reason\" (2002), and also \"Maailmankansalaisen etiikka\" (Ethics of the Citizen of the World)(2004), which won the Lauri Jäntin Säätiö's book award. He also served in the Aristotlean Finnish translation group on the numerous works of Aristotle. His book \"Maailmankansalaisen uskonto\" (Beliefs of the Citizen of the World) appeared in 2011, and was selected as Christian book of 2011 in the Savon Sanomat.\n\nSihvola received the 2011 WSOY Literary Foundation Award.\n\nThe Board of the Academy of Finland have named Sihvola as Academy Professor for 2012–2016. His project deals with tolerance and pluralism in moral psychology, philosophy, history and political philosophy.\n\nSihvola was married with Kirsi Ahonen. The family has two children, Jaakko (born 1996) and Elina (born 1998). Sihvola's hobbies included long-distance running, literature, rock music and church activities. For several years, he was both their children's soccer coach at FC Viikingit. In the parish elections of 2010, Sihvola was the politically neutral candidate of \"vapaamielisen Kirkon kevät-yhdistys\". He collected the most votes of all the association's candidates and was elected with 85 votes in Vuosaari Parish Council and 116 votes in the Helsinki Parish Union Church of the common council in 2011. He died of a serious illness on 14 June 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14239490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14239490", "title": "Karin Friedrich", "text": "Karin Friedrich\n\nKarin Friedrich (born 12 June 1963 in Munich) is a German historian, a professor in history at the University of Aberdeen King's College.\n\nFriedrich received an M.A. in History and Political Science from Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich in 1989 and a Ph.D. in History from Georgetown University in 1995. From 1995-2004, she worked as a lecturer and senior lecturer at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies, University of London/University College London. From 2001-6, she was co-editor of the academic journal \"German History\". At Aberdeen she is co-director of the Centre for Early Modern Studies. She is also member of several editorial boards (see links below).\n\nSpecialising in Polish, German and Prussian history, she wrote \"The Other Prussia. Royal Prussia, Poland and Liberty, 1569–1772\", shedding light on the history of the Western part of Prussia in which mainly German-speaking Protestants were subject to the elected King of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nShe also stayed at the Free University of Berlin in 2000, gained a Leverhulme Research Fellowship, and several guest scholarships (University of Greifswald, at the Herzog August Library, Wolfenbuettel), an AHRC fellowship (2011), and served as advisory committee member of the German Historical Institute in Warsaw and as member of the Working Group on the Baroque, Herzog August Library, Wolfenbuettel. She was recently elected member of the Council of the Royal Historical Society, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11430987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11430987", "title": "Korneli Kekelidze", "text": "Korneli Kekelidze\n\nKorneli Kekelidze () (April 18, 1879 – June 7, 1962) was a Georgian philologist, scholar of Georgian literature, and one of the founding fathers of the Tbilisi State University where he chaired the Department of the History of Old Georgian Literature from 1918 until his death.\n\nKekelidze left a diverse literary and scholarly legacy that laid foundation for critical study of the Georgian literature. He discovered, studied and published several pieces of Old Georgian literature. His most influential work \"A History of Old Georgian Literature\" (ძველი ქართული ლიტერატურის ისტორია) went through four editions between 1923 and 1960. The magnitude of Kekelidze’s accomplishments was recognized by the naming of the Georgian Institute of Manuscripts in Tbilisi in his honor.\n\nKekelidze became a member of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences in 1941.\n"}
{"id": "31765378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31765378", "title": "List of women's firsts", "text": "List of women's firsts\n\nThis is a list of women's firsts noting the first time that a woman or women achieved a given historical feat. A shorthand phrase for this development is \"breaking the gender barrier\" or \"breaking the glass ceiling.\" Other terms related to the glass ceiling can be used for specific fields related to those terms, such as \"breaking the brass ceiling\" for women in the military and \"breaking the stained glass ceiling\" for women clergy.\nInclusion on the list is reserved for achievements by women that have significant historical impact.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1866: Lucy Hobbs Taylor, first American woman to earn a doctorate in dentistry.\n\nBorn Lucy Hobbs on March 14, 1833 in Constable, New York. She was initially denied admission to dental school, then began private study with a professor from the Ohio College of Dental Surgery. In November 1865, she entered the Ohio College of Dental Surgery, where in 1866 she earned her doctorate in dentistry, becoming the first woman in the United States to do so. She married James Taylor and he followed her into the practice of dentistry. The two moved to Lawrence, Kansas, where they practiced together until her husband's death in 1886. She retired and became active in women's rights, and died in 1910.\n\n\n\n\nHistoric firsts for women in government:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17426233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17426233", "title": "Maria Ley-Piscator", "text": "Maria Ley-Piscator\n\nMaria Ley-Piscator (born Friederike Flora Czada, 1 August 1898 – 14 October 1999) is best known as the wife of Erwin Piscator (1893-1966), Germany's famous left-wing theater director. Born on 1 August 1898 in Vienna, Austria-Hungary (now Austria), Maria Ley sought to create a theatrical career for herself as a dancer in Paris and Berlin. Later, she turned to choreography and helped in several stage productions with Max Reinhardt, including \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\".\n\nMaria Ley also studied literature at the Sorbonne, where she met Erwin Piscator (her third husband) during his exile in 1936. After marrying in Paris, the couple moved to Manhattan in 1939, where they founded the Dramatic Workshop at the New School for Social Research. Their students included Harry Belafonte, Marlon Brando and Tony Randall. Ley-Piscator directed several theatrical productions off Broadway.\n\nDuring the 1970s she worked as a teacher at the Southern Illinois University Carbondale and at Stony Brook University. Ley-Piscator died in New York in 1999 at the age of 101.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40975010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40975010", "title": "Meike Hoffmann", "text": "Meike Hoffmann\n\nMeike Hoffmann (born 1962) is a German art historian and provenance researcher.\n\nHoffmann studied art history, archeology, cultural studies, and library science at the Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel and at the Freie Universität Berlin (Free University Berlin). In 2005, she was awarded a PhD for her dissertation on Die Brücke art movement.\n\nFrom 1990 to 1994, Meike Hoffmann was a research assistant at the Berlin gallery Theis and the Berlin Ceramics Museum. From 1992 to 1995, she taught Art History at the Goethe-Institut in Berlin, and from 1995 to 1999, she was a research trainee and curator at the Brücke Museum in Berlin. From 1999 to 2006, she worked as a freelance art historian, writer and curator.\n\nSince November 2006, Meike Hoffmann is in charge of the Forschungsstelle \"Entartete Kunst\" (Degenerate Art Research Center) at the Freie Universität Berlin. The Research Center was initiated in 2003 by the Ferdinand-Möller Stiftung, which secured the funding until 2016. Since then, the Research Center is funded by the Federal Government Commission for Culture and the Media.\n\nIn 2010, Hoffmann was involved in the identification of the missing sculptures found in the archaeological excavations at the Rotes Rathaus City Hall of Berlin.\nShe designed the first worldwide academic training program in provernance research that she teaches continuously since 2011 at the Free University Berlin.\n\nAfter the ‘Schwabinger Kunstfund’ (‘Schwabing Art Trove’) in 2012, Meike Hoffmann was commissioned to examine classic modern art within the collection of Hildebrand Gurlitt. She participated at the press conference about the Munich art discovery on 5 November 2013 in Augsburg and became an official member of the Taskforce ‘Schwabinger Kunstfund’ as well as for the follow-up projects of the Deutsches Zentrum Kulturgutverluste (German Lost Art Foundation) and the Kunstmuseum Bern (Museum of fine Arts Berne).\n\nOn 1 March 2017, Meike Hoffmann took over the scientific coordination of the ‘Mosse Art Research Initiative’ (MARI) which is also located at the Freie Universität Berlin. The project is the first public-private partnership in provenance research executed by public German institutions in cooperation with descendants of the victims of National Socialist prosecution. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34348016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34348016", "title": "Milan Milićević", "text": "Milan Milićević\n\nMilan Djakov Milićević (Serbian Cyrillic: Милан Ђаков Милићевић; June 4, 1831 – November 17, 1908) was a Serbian writer, biographer, publicist, ethnologist and one of the founders of the Association of Writers of Serbia.\n\nMilan Đakov Milićević was a Serbian geographical, ethnographical, and historical writer, and novelist; author of stories, studies, sketches of special Serbian interest. He left a most detailed account of his time.\n\nHe was born of a good and old Serbian family in Ripanj, about 25 kilometers south of Belgrade at the foot of Avala mountain, on the fourth of June 1831. When Milićević was a teenager his parents moved to\nBelgrade. Having received his early education at the gymnasium of Belgrade (1845), he entered the Grande école (\"Velika škola\"), and engaged in the study of religion and education. Although Milićević did specially distinguish himself as a student, ill health prevented him from going to Russia to pursue further studies. University life, however, had considerable influence in the development of his character and furnished him with much of his literary material. After taking a degree in 1850, he taught school in the Serbian heartland Lesnik (Serbia), and in 1851 at Topola. In early 1852 Milićević took a clerical post at the courthouse in Valjevo, and was soon transferred to a similar post in Belgrade before joining the Ministry of Culture and Religious Affairs in 1852. Three years later Milićević transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there he remained until 1861. From then until 1880 he served as secretary of the Ministry of Education. In 1884 the Minister of Education took him as his assistant, and in 1886 he became head librarian of the National Library of Belgrade. He entered the Skupština (Parliament) as a representative of a Belgrade constituency and as a member of the Progressive Party, led by Milutin Garašanin, son of Ilija Garašanin, and Vladan Đorđević. From 1896 to 1899 he was the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, and in 1899 he retired. In 1901 he celebrated his 50th anniversary as a pedagogue and novelist.\n\nHe died at Belgrade in 1908.\n\nMilićević was an indefatigable pedagogue and a prolific writer, so that he left behind him, as the fruit of his labours, a large number of books, novels, and monographs.\n\nFrom 1868 to 1876 Milićević edited \"Škola\" (School), a tri-monthly scholastic journal. He was a voluminous writer on educational subjects, and was the author of various school-textbooks. He authored 100 books, including several novels, and published hundreds of studies, papers, monographs, and learned articles. Among his pedagological textbooks were:\n\n\"Schools in Serbia\" (1868); \"A Study Guide\" (1869); \"Pedagological Studies\" (1870); \"School Hygiene\" (1870); \"History of Pedagogy\" (1871); \"School Discipline\" (1871); \"Adolf Diesterweg\" (1871); \"Schools for the Rights of Citizens and Responsibilities\" (1873); etc.\n\nWhen Milićević was appointed secretary of the Ministry of Education he immediately put into practice methods of the most celebrated reformers of education of the past and present, Dositej Obradović (Serbia), Teodor Janković-Mirijevski (Austria and Russia), Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi (Switzerland), Friedrich Fröbel (Germany), Adolph Diesterweg (Germany), Ferdinand Buisson (France), and others. He translated the works of the great French writers, philosophers and educators of his time, \"Paris in America\" by Édouard Laboulaye (1863); \"Moral History of Women\" (1876) and \"Fathers and Children in the Nineteenth Century\" (Vols. 1 & 2, 1872 and 1873) by Ernest Legouvé; \"Women of the 20th Century\" by Jules Simon; Émile by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and works by Montesquieu (\"Persian Letters\") and Jules Sandeau (\"Galebova stena\"). Milićević translated Russian author Alexander Hilferding's history of the Serbians and Bulgarians, \"Pisma o istoriji Srba i Bugara\", and Ignaty Potapenko's 1892 short story \"Istinska sluzba\" (\"True Vocation\").\n\nHe also began recruiting the best minds in academia. A well-known pedagogue, Dr. Vojislav Bakić (1847–1929), early in 1875 decided to move to Belgrade from Zagreb. He requested Milan Milićević to help him find a job in Serbia. Milićević noted in his diary January 8, 1875: \"I am happy about it because our national education will acquire a hard-working,competent, educated and erudite scholar.\" Bakić, author of \"Srpsko rodoljublje i otačastvoljublje\", stressed freedom and equality even more than brotherhood. He advocated the education of girls to prepare for their patriotic mission.\n\nHis first books dealt with the history, geography and customs of his people. In 1857 he published two books, \"The Serbian Peasant\" and \"Serbian Towns\" which attracted some attention. It was followed by a three more book entitled \"The Life of Serbian Peasants\" (Vol 1, 1868; Vol. 2, 1873; Vol 3, 1877).\n\nIn his early years Milićević acquired a love of national customs and traditions which his humanist education never obliterated, while, in addition, he learnt to know the whole range of our popular literature (\"Narodne pesme\") -- legends, songs and fairy tales which were collected and published by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić. These circumstances explain the richness of his vocabulary, and joined to an ardent patriotism they fitted him to become a political leader and a leading scholar, proponent of the Vukovian School (Vukova škola). As a scholar, he gave fresh impulse to Vuk Karadžić reforms in his early and later works. At the time, there were many historians who raised methodological questions. A step towards broader views and the application of modern European methodological principles was taken through the works of Milan Djakov Milićević, Jovan Skerlić and Jovan Cvijić.\n\nHe has written:\n\nIn the introduction of his \"Principality of Serbia\" (1876), Milićević concluded in didactic verse: \"Knowledge is enlightenment, will is might, let us work, day and night.\"\n\nFrom 1873 to his death his work was educational, with the exception of a short stint in politics before his retirement. As president of the Learned Society, Milićević enlarged the resources \nand number of the institution, which had hundreds of members by the turn of the century. In other fields, he promoted common school education (especially manual training), the\nwork of the public library, and took active part in discussion of women's rights, economics, statistical and other public questions, holding many offices of honour and responsibility. As \nan author he wrote on the government treatment of the poor, underprivileged, and general political economy besides producing monographs on the life of Petar Jokić, a buljukbasha of Karadjordje's guard who died in 1852, and the history of Serbia in his own time.\n\nIn 1878 the Serbian Learned Society (\"Srpsko učeno društvo\") elected Slovak professor Janko Šafarik, Milan Djakov Milićević and Serbian painter Steva Todorović to collect ethnographic objects in Serbia for exhibit at the Pan-Slavic Congress in St. Peterburg. Milićević and Todorović selected 600 national costumes and Todorović supplied twenty photographs from Serbia. Officially, however, it was Milan Milićević who led the delegation, both as chief delegate of the Serbian Learned Society and by virtue of his fluency in the Russian language.\n\nAs a politician Milićević had an active career with the Progressive Party, led by Milutin Garašanin, son of Ilija Garašanin, and Vladan Đorđević. The Progressive Party sprang from the group of young conservatives, imbued with Western liberalism. Their better known regional leaders were Milan Piroćanac, Čedomilj Mijatović, historian Stojan Novaković, poet Milan Kujundžić-Aberdar, poet, novelist and dramatist Milorad Popović Šapčanin, and Milan Đakov Milićević.\n\nFrom 1896 he entered the Skupština (Serbian Parliament) as representative of a Belgrade constituency, representing the Progressive Party, but decided three years later to retire. Milićević believed that the solidarity of Slavic nations should recognize and not repudiate the principle of distinctive national differences while contributing to the mutual respect and understanding of all humankind. Professing advanced Liberal and democratic views, he often had to defend personal freedoms to those who were used to strong-arm tactics. \"From many sides our friends complain how the Radicals are upsetting them,\" Milićević wrote in his diary, \"They do not understand that this is a consequence of freedom and blame us that we do not use the state administration to stop them. No! That we will not do!...\"\n\nLiterary critic Jovan Skerlić classed Milićević with Stjepan Mitrov Ljubiša (1824–1878), an excellent Serbian short story writer originally from Montenegro. The two were famed as story tellers, like Joksim Nović-Otočanin and Jovan Sundečić a generation before.\n\nIn Milan Miličević's book \"Pomenik znamenitih ljudi u srpskog narodu novieg doba\" (Album of the important personalities among the Serbs in modern times), he claimed that Ilija Garašanin's policy in office was guided by the ides presented in the \"Nacertanije,\" even though the existence of such a document was at that time unknown only to a few and it remained unpublished until 1906.\n\n\n2. The factual material for the Wikipedia biography of Milan Milićević is adapted from the Serbian of Jovan Skerlić's \"Istorija nove srpske književnosti\" / History of Modern Serbian Literature (Belgrade, 1921), pages 330-334\n\n"}
{"id": "243495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243495", "title": "Nefertiti Bust", "text": "Nefertiti Bust\n\nThe Nefertiti Bust is a painted stucco-coated limestone bust of Nefertiti, the Great Royal Wife of the Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten. The work is believed to have been crafted in 1345 B.C. by the sculptor Thutmose, because it was found in his workshop in Amarna, Egypt. It is one of the most copied works of ancient Egypt. Owing to the work, Nefertiti has become one of the most famous women of the ancient world, and an icon of feminine beauty. \n\nA German archaeological team led by Ludwig Borchardt discovered the bust in 1912 in Thutmose's workshop. It has been kept at various locations in Germany since its discovery, including the cellar of a bank, a salt mine in Merkers-Kieselbach, the Dahlem museum, the Egyptian Museum in Charlottenburg and the Altes Museum. It is currently on display at the Neues Museum in Berlin, where it was originally displayed before World War II.\n\nThe Nefertiti bust has become a cultural symbol of Berlin as well as ancient Egypt. Nefertiti herself has become an icon. Nefertiti is widely known for her beauty and versatility. It has also been the subject of an intense argument between Egypt and Germany over Egyptian demands for its repatriation. It was dragged into controversy by the \"Body of Nefertiti\" art exhibition and also by doubts over its authenticity.\n\nNefertiti (meaning \"the beautiful one has come forth\") was the 14th-century BC Great Royal Wife (chief consort) of the Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten of the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt. Akhenaten initiated a new monotheistic form of worship called Atenism dedicated to the Sun disc Aten. Little is known about Nefertiti. Theories suggest she could have been an Egyptian royal by birth, a foreign princess or the daughter of a high government official named Ay, who became pharaoh after Tutankhamun. She may have been the co-regent of Egypt with Akhenaten, who ruled from 1352 BC to 1336 BC. Nefertiti bore six daughters to Akhenaten, one of whom, Ankhesenpaaten (renamed Ankhesenamun after the suppression of the Aten cult), married Tutankhamun, Nefertiti's stepson. Nefertiti was thought to have disappeared from history in the twelfth year of Akhenaten's reign, though whether this is due to her death or because she took a new name is not known. She may also have later become a pharaoh in her own right, ruling alone for a short time after her husband's death. However, it is now known that she was still alive in the sixteenth year of her husband's reign from a limestone quarry inscription found at Dayr Abū Ḥinnis. Dayr Abū Ḥinnis is located \"on the eastern side of the Nile, about ten kilometres north of Amarna.\"\n\nThe bust of Nefertiti is believed to have been crafted about 1345 BC by the sculptor Thutmose. The bust does not have any inscriptions, but can be certainly identified as Nefertiti by the characteristic crown, which she wears in other surviving (and clearly labelled) depictions, for example the 'house altar'.\n\nThe Nefertiti bust was found on 6 December 1912 at Amarna by the German Oriental Company (\"Deutsche Orient-Gesellschaft\" – DOG), led by German archaeologist Ludwig Borchardt. It was found in what had been the sculptor Thutmose's workshop, along with other unfinished busts of Nefertiti. Borchardt's diary provides the main written account of the find; he remarks, \"Suddenly we had in our hands the most alive Egyptian artwork. You cannot describe it with words. You must see it.\"\n\nA 1924 document found in the archives of the German Oriental Company recalls the 20 January 1913 meeting between Ludwig Borchardt and a senior Egyptian official to discuss the division of the archeological finds of 1912 between Germany and Egypt. According to the secretary of the German Oriental Company (who was the author of the document and who was present at the meeting), Borchardt \"wanted to save the bust for us\". Borchardt is suspected of having concealed the bust's real value, although he denied doing so.\n\nWhile Philipp Vandenberg describes the coup as \"adventurous and beyond comparison\", \"Time\" magazine lists it among the \"Top 10 Plundered Artifacts\". Borchardt showed the Egyptian official a photograph of the bust \"that didn't show Nefertiti in her best light\". The bust was wrapped up in a box when Egypt's chief antiques inspector Gustave Lefebvre came for inspection. The document reveals that Borchardt claimed the bust was made of gypsum to mislead the inspector. The German Oriental Company blames the negligence of the inspector and points out that the bust was at the top of the exchange list and says the deal was done fairly.\n\nThe bust of Nefertiti is tall and weighs about . It is made of a limestone core covered with painted stucco layers. The face is completely symmetrical and almost intact, but the left eye lacks the inlay present in the right. The pupil of the right eye is of inserted quartz with black paint and is fixed with beeswax. The background of the eye-socket is unadorned limestone. Nefertiti wears her characteristic blue crown known as the \"Nefertiti cap crown\" with a golden diadem band looped around like horizontal ribbons and joining at the back, and an Uraeus (cobra) over her brow – which is now broken. She also wears a broad collar with a floral pattern on it. The ears also have suffered some damage. \"Gardner's Art Through the Ages\" suggests that \"With this elegant bust, Thutmose may have been alluding to a heavy flower on its slender sleek stalk by exaggerating the weight of the crowned head and the length of the almost serpentine neck.\"\n\nAccording to David Silverman, the Nefertiti bust reflects the classical Egyptian art style, deviating from the \"eccentricities\" of the Amarna art style, which was developed in Akhenaten's reign. The exact function of the bust is unknown, though it is theorized that the bust may be a sculptor's modello to be used as a basis for other official portraits, kept in the artist's workshop. \n\nLudwig Borchardt commissioned a chemical analysis of the colored pigments of the head. The result of the examination was published in the book \"Portrait of Queen Nofretete\" in 1923:\n\nWhen the bust was first discovered, no piece of quartz to represent the iris of the left eyeball was present, as in the other eye, and none was found despite an intensive search and a then significant reward of £1000 being put up for information regarding its whereabouts. Borchardt assumed that the quartz iris of the left eye had fallen out when the sculptor Thutmose's workshop fell into ruin. The missing eye led to speculation that Nefertiti may have suffered from an ophthalmic infection, and actually lost her left eye, though the presence of an iris in other statues of her contradicted this possibility.\n\nDietrich Wildung proposed that the bust in Berlin was a model for official portraits and was used by the master sculptor for teaching his pupils how to carve the internal structure of the eye, and thus the left iris was not added. \"Gardner's Art Through the Ages\" and Silverman presents a similar view that the bust was deliberately kept unfinished. Hawass suggested that Thutmose had created the left eye, but it was later destroyed.\n\nThe bust was first CT scanned in 1992, with the scan producing cross sections of the bust every . In 2006, Dietrich Wildung, the director of Berlin's Egyptian Museum, while trying a different lighting at the Altes Museum—where the bust was then displayed—observed wrinkles on Nefertiti's neck and bags under her eyes, suggesting the sculptor had tried to depict signs of aging. A CT scan confirmed Wildung's findings; Thutmose had added gypsum under the cheeks and eyes in an attempt to perfect his sculpture, Wildung explained.\n\nThe CT scan in 2006, led by Alexander Huppertz, the director of the Imaging Science Institute in Berlin, revealed a wrinkled face of Nefertiti carved in the inner core of the bust. The results were published in the April 2009 \"Radiology\" journal. The scan revealed that Thutmose placed layers of varying thickness on top of the limestone core. The inner face has creases around her mouth and cheeks and a swelling on the nose. The creases and the bump on the nose are leveled by the outermost stucco layer. According to Huppertz, this may reflect \"aesthetic ideals of the era\". The 2006 scan provided greater detail than the 1992 one, revealing subtle details just 1–2 mm under the stucco.\n\nThe bust of Nefertiti has become \"one of the most admired, and most copied, images from ancient Egypt\", and the star exhibit used to market Berlin's museums. It is seen as an \"icon of international beauty\". \"Showing a woman with a long neck, elegantly arched brows, high cheekbones, a slender nose and an enigmatic smile played about red lips, the bust has established Nefertiti as one of the most beautiful faces of antiquity.\" It is described as the most famous bust of ancient art, comparable only to the mask of Tutankhamun.\n\nNefertiti has become an icon of Berlin's culture. Some 500,000 visitors see Nefertiti every year. The bust is described as \"the best-known work of art from ancient Egypt, arguably from all antiquity\". Her face is on postcards of Berlin and 1989 German postage stamps.\n\nThe Nefertiti bust has been in Germany since 1913, when it was shipped to Berlin and presented to James Simon, a wholesale merchant and the sponsor of the Amarna excavation. It was displayed at Simon's residence until 1913, when Simon loaned the bust and other artifacts from the Amarna dig to the Berlin Museum. Although the rest of the Amarna collection was displayed in 1913–14, Nefertiti was kept secret at Borchardt's request. In 1918, the Museum discussed the public display of the bust, but again kept it secret on the request of Borchardt. It was permanently donated to the Berlin Museum in 1920. Finally, in 1923, the bust was first unveiled to the public in Borchardt's writing and later in 1924, displayed to the public as part of the Egyptian Museum of Berlin. The bust created a sensation, swiftly becoming a world-renowned icon of feminine beauty, and one of the most universally-recognised artifacts to survive from Ancient Egypt. The Nefertiti bust was displayed in Berlin’s Neues Museum on Museum Island until the museum was closed in 1939; with the onset of World War II, the Berlin museums were emptied and the artifacts moved to secure shelters for safekeeping. Nefertiti was initially stored in the cellar of the Prussian Governmental Bank and then, in the autumn of 1941, moved to the tower of a flak bunker in Berlin. The Neues Museum suffered bombings in 1943 by the Royal Air Force. On 6 March 1945, the bust was moved to a German salt mine at Merkers-Kieselbach in Thuringia.\n\nIn March 1945, the bust was found by the American Army and given over to its Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives branch. It was moved to the Reichsbank in Frankfurt and then, in August, shipped to the U.S. Central Collecting Point in Wiesbaden where it was displayed to the public in 1946. In 1956, the bust was returned to West Berlin. There it was displayed at the Dahlem Museum. As early as 1946, East Germany (German Democratic Republic) insisted on the return of Nefertiti to Museum Island in East Berlin, where the bust had been displayed before the war. In 1967, Nefertiti was moved in the Egyptian Museum in Charlottenburg and remained there until 2005, when it was moved to the Altes Museum. The bust returned to the Neues Museum as its centerpiece when the museum reopened in October 2009.\n\nEver since the official unveiling of the bust in Berlin in 1924, the Egyptian authorities have been demanding its return to Egypt. In 1925, Egypt threatened to ban German excavations in Egypt unless Nefertiti was returned. In 1929, Egypt offered to exchange other artifacts for Nefertiti, but Germany declined. In the 1950s, Egypt again tried to initiate negotiations but there was no response from Germany. Although Germany had previously strongly opposed the repatriation, in 1933 Hermann Göring considered returning the bust to King Farouk Fouad of Egypt as a political gesture. Hitler opposed the idea, and told the Egyptian government that he would build a new Egyptian museum for Nefertiti: \"In the middle, this wonder, Nefertiti, will be enthroned, ... I will never relinquish the head of the Queen.\" While the bust was under American control, Egypt requested the United States to hand it over; the USA refused and advised Egypt to take up the matter with the new German authorities. In 1989, the Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak viewed the bust and announced that Nefertiti was \"the best ambassador for Egypt\" in Berlin.\n\nDr. Zahi Hawass, the former Secretary General of the Egyptian Supreme Council of Antiquities, believes that Nefertiti belongs to Egypt and that the bust was taken out of Egypt illegally and should therefore be returned. Dr. Hawass has maintained the stance that Egyptian authorities were misled over the acquisition of Nefertiti in 1913. He has demanded that Germany prove that it was exported legally. According to Kurt G. Siehr, another argument in support of repatriation is that \"Archeological finds have their 'home' in the country of origin and should be preserved in that country.\" The Nefertiti repatriation issue sprang up again in 2003 over the \"Body of Nefertiti\" sculpture. In 2005, Hawass requested UNESCO to intervene to return the bust.\n\nIn 2007, Hawass threatened to ban exhibitions of Egyptian artifacts in Germany if Nefertiti was not lent to Egypt, but to no avail. Hawass also requested a worldwide boycott of loans to German museums to initiate what he calls a \"scientific war\". Hawass wanted Germany to at least lend the bust to Egypt in 2012 for the opening of the new Grand Egyptian Museum near the Great Pyramids of Giza. Simultaneously, a campaign called \"Nefertiti Travels\" was launched by cultural association CulturCooperation, based in Hamburg, Germany. They distributed postcards depicting the bust of Nefertiti with the words \"Return to Sender\" and wrote an open letter to the German Culture Minister, Bernd Neumann, supporting the view that Egypt should be given the bust on loan. In 2009, when Nefertiti moved back to the Neues Museum – her old home, the appropriateness of Berlin as the bust's location was questioned.\n\nSeveral German art experts have attempted to refute all the claims made by Hawass, pointing to the 1924 document discussing the pact between Borchardt and the Egyptian authorities, though, as discussed earlier, Borchardt has been accused of foul play in the deal. The German authorities have also argued the bust is too fragile to transport and that the legal arguments for the repatriation were insubstantial. According to \"The Times\", Germany may be concerned that lending the bust to Egypt would mean its permanent departure from Germany.\n\nIn December 2009 Friederike Seyfried, the director of Berlin's Egyptian Museum and Papyrus Collection, presented to the Egyptians documents held by the museum regarding the discovery of the bust which include a protocol signed by the German excavator of the bust and the Egyptian Antiquities Service. In the documents, the object was listed as a painted plaster bust of a princess. But in the diary of Ludwig Borchardt he clearly referred to it as the head of Nefertiti. \"This proves that Borchardt wrote this description so that his country can get the statue,\" Hawass commented \"These materials confirm Egypt's contention that (he) did act unethically with intent to deceive.\" However, Hawass said Egypt didn't consider the Nefertiti bust to be a looted antiquity. Still, it is one of a handful of truly singular Egyptian antiquities still in foreign hands. \"I really want it back,\" he said. Hawass' statement quoted the director of the museum as saying the authority to approve the return of the bust to Egypt lies with the Prussian Cultural Heritage and the German culture minister.\n\nThe French book, \"Le Buste de Nefertiti – une Imposture de l'Egyptologie?\" (\"The Bust of Nefertiti – a Fraud in Egyptology?\") by Swiss art historian Henri Stierlin and the book \"Missing Link in Archaeology\" by Berlin author and historian Erdogan Ercivan both claimed that the Nefertiti bust was a modern fake. Stierlin claims that Borchardt may have created the bust to test ancient pigments and that when the bust was admired by Prince Johann Georg of Saxony, Borchardt pretended it was genuine to avoid offending the prince. Stierlin argues that the missing left eye of the bust would have been a sign of disrespect in ancient Egypt, that no scientific records of the bust appear until 11 years after its supposed discovery, and while the paint pigments are ancient, the inner limestone core has never been dated. Ercivan suggests Borchardt's wife was the model for the bust, and both authors argue that it was not revealed to the public until 1924 because it was a fake. Another theory suggested that the existing Nefertiti bust was crafted in the 1930s on Hitler's orders, and that the original was lost in World War II.\nDietrich Wildung dismissed the claims as a publicity stunt, as radiological tests, detailed computer tomography, and material analysis have proved its authenticity. The pigments used on the bust have been matched to those used by ancient Egyptian artisans. The 2006 CT scan that discovered the \"hidden face\" of Nefertiti proved without doubt – according to \"Science News\" – that the bust was genuine.\n\nEgyptian authorities also dismissed Stierlin's theory. Dr Zahi Hawass said \"Stierlin is not a historian. He is delirious.\" Although Stierlin had argued \"Egyptians cut shoulders horizontally\" and Nefertiti had vertical shoulders, Hawass said that the new style seen in the Nefertiti bust is part of the changes introduced by Akhenaten, the husband of Nefertiti. Hawass also claimed that the sculptor Thutmose had created the eye, but it was later destroyed.\n\nIn 2003, the Egyptian Museum in Berlin allowed the Hungarian artist duo Little Warsaw, András Gálik and Bálint Havas, to place the bust atop a nearly nude female bronze for a video installation to be shown at the Venice Biennale modern art festival. The project called the \"Body of Nefertiti\" was, according to the artists, an attempt to pay homage to the bust. According to Wildung, it showed \"the continued relevance of the ancient world to today's art.\" However, Egyptian cultural officials took offense and proclaimed it to be a disgrace to \"one of the great symbols of their country's history\". As a consequence, they also banned Wildung and his wife from further exploration in Egypt. The Egyptian Minister for Culture, Farouk Hosny, declared that Nefertiti was \"not in safe hands\", and although Egypt had not renewed their claims for restitution \"due to the good relations with Germany,\" this \"recent behaviour\" was unacceptable.\n\nIn 1930, the German press described the Nefertiti bust as their new monarch, personifying it as a queen. As the \"'most precious ... stone in the setting of the diadem' from the art treasures of 'Prussia Germany'\", Nefertiti would re-establish the imperial German national identity after 1918. Hitler described the bust as \"a unique masterpiece, an ornament, a true treasure\", and pledged to build a museum to house it. By the 1970s, the bust had become an issue of national identity to both German states—East Germany and West Germany—created after World War II. In 1999, Nefertiti appeared on an election poster for the green political party Bündnis 90/Die Grünen as a promise for cosmopolitan and multi-cultural environment with the slogan \"Strong Women for Berlin!\" According to Claudia Breger, another reason that the Nefertiti bust became associated with a German national identity was its place as a rival to the Tutankhamun find by the British, who then ruled Egypt.\n\nThe bust became an influence on popular culture with Jack Pierce's make-up work on Elsa Lanchester's iconic hair style in the film \"Bride of Frankenstein\" being inspired by it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50801581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50801581", "title": "Nigel Cliff", "text": "Nigel Cliff\n\nNigel Cliff (born 26 December 1969) is a British historian, biographer, translator and columnist. He specialises in narrative nonfiction, especially in the fields of cultural history and the history of exploration. He is a Fellow of Harris Manchester College, Oxford and the Royal Literary Fund.\n\nBorn in Manchester, Cliff was educated on scholarships at Winchester College and Harris Manchester College, Oxford University, where he gained a first-class degree and was awarded the Beddington Prize for English Literature. He was a film and theatre critic for \"The Times\" and a contributor to \"The Economist\". He writes for a range of publications including \"The New York Times\". Cliff lectures widely, including at Oxford University, the Harry Ransom Center and the British Library, and writes a regular column for Dajia, the online magazine of Tencent.\n\nCliff's first book, \"The Shakespeare Riots: Revenge, Drama, and Death in Nineteenth-century America\", was published in the United States by Random House in 2007. Centring on a feud between leading Shakespearean actors William Charles Macready and Edwin Forrest that led to the deadly Astor Place Riot of 1849, it dramatises the birth of the American entertainment industry and demonstrates the centrality of Shakespeare to nineteenth-century American identity.\n\nWriting in the London Review of Books, Michael Dobson called the book 'wonderful... a brilliant debut... both enthralling and scholarly.\" In the \"Los Angeles Times\", Phillip Lopate called it 'Brilliantly engrossing... exemplary... engaging, worldly, fluent... crammed with entertaining nuggets.'. The book was a \"Washington Post\" Book of the Year and was a finalist for the National Award for Arts Writing. Cliff wrote the adapted screenplay for Muse Productions.\n\nCliff's second book was \"Holy War: How Vasco da Gama's Epic Voyages Turned the Tide in a Centuries-old Clash of Civilisations\" (Harper, 2011). It was subsequently issued as \"The Last Crusade: The Epic Voyages of Vasco da Gama\" by Harper Perennial in 2012. The book was published under the latter name by Atlantic in the UK and under the former name in Portugal, Brazil, Japan, Russia, Turkey, and Poland, with publication forthcoming in China. The book was a \"New York Times\" Notable Book and was shortlisted for the PEN Hessell-Tiltman Prize. In the \"New York Times\" Eric Ormsby wrote: \"Cliff has a novelist's gift for depicting character.\" In \"The Sunday Times\" James McConnachie called the book 'stirringly epic...[a] thrilling narrative.\"\n\nCliff's third book was a new translation and critical edition of \"Marco Polo's Travels\" for Penguin Classics, which was released in the UK and U.S. in 2015. For this first all-new translation in a half-century, he went back to the original texts in French, Latin and Italian.\n\nCliff's fourth book, \"Moscow Nights: The Van Cliburn Story - How One Man and His Piano Transformed the Cold War\", was published by Harper in September 2016. The Boston Globe named it a Book of the Year. In January 2017 it was named a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award. The book won Nautilus Gold And Silver Awards.\n\nCliff is married to the ballerina Viviana Durante. They have a son and live in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "892320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=892320", "title": "Paleolithic Continuity Theory", "text": "Paleolithic Continuity Theory\n\nThe Paleolithic Continuity Theory (or PCT; Italian: \"La teoria della continuità\"), since 2010 relabelled as a \"paradigm\", as in \"Paleolithic Continuity Paradigm\" or \"PCP\"), is a hypothesis suggesting that the Proto-Indo-European language (PIE) can be traced back to the Upper Paleolithic, several millennia earlier than the Chalcolithic or at the most Neolithic estimates in other scenarios of Proto-Indo-European origins.\nAs advanced by Mario Alinei in his \"Origini delle Lingue d’Europa\" (Origins of the Languages of Europe), published in two volumes in 1996 and 2000, the PCT posits that the advent of Indo-European languages should be linked to the arrival of Homo sapiens in Europe, at around 40,000 years ago. \nEmploying \"lexical periodisation\", Alinei arrives at a timeline deeper than even that of Colin Renfrew's Anatolian hypothesis, previously the mainstream linguistic theory proposing the earliest origin for Indo-European.\n\nSince 2004, an informal workgroup of scholars who support the Paleolithic Continuity Theory has been held online. Members of the group (referred to as \"Scientific Committee\" in the website) include linguists Xaverio Ballester (University of Valencia) and Francesco Benozzo (University of Bologna), prehistorian Marcel Otte (Université de Liège) and anthropologist Henry Harpending (University of Utah).\n\nThe Paleolithic Continuity Theory is distinctly a minority view as it enjoys very little academic support, serious discussion being limited to a small circle of scholars. \nIt is not listed by Mallory among the proposals for the origins of the Indo-European languages that are widely discussed and considered credible within academia.\n\nThe framework of PCT is laid out by Alinei in four main assumptions:\n\n\nThe continuity theory draws on a Continuity Model (CM), positing the presence of IE and non-IE peoples and languages in Europe from Paleolithic times and allowing for minor invasions and infiltrations of local scope, mainly during the last three millennia.\n\nArguing that continuity is \"the archeologist's easiest pursuit,\" Alinei deems this \"the easiest working hypothesis,\" putting the burden of proof on competing hypotheses as long as none provide irrefutable counter-evidence. Alinei also claims linguistic coherence, rigor and productivity in the pursuit of this approach.\n\nAssociated with the Paleolithic Continuity Theory (PCT) is the historical reconstruction proposed by Alinei, which suggests that Indo-European speakers were native in Europe since the paleolithic. According to this reconstruction, the differentiation process of languages would have taken an extremely long time; by the end of the Ice Age the Indo-European language family had differentiated into proto Celtic/Italic/Germanic/Slavic/Baltic speakers occupying territories within or close to their traditional homelands. The rate of change accelerated when (Neolithic) social stratification and colonial wars began. Summarizing:\n\n\nThe Paleolithic Continuity hypothesis reverses the Kurgan hypothesis and largely identifies the Indo-Europeans with Gimbutas's \"Old Europe.\" PCT reassigns the Kurgan culture (traditionally considered early Indo-European) to a people of predominantly mixed Uralic and Turkic stock. Alinei argues that the use of borrowed Turkic words in horse terminology, such as \"qaptï\" (\"to grab with hands and teeth\"), \"yabu\" (\"horse\"), \"yam\" (\"nomadic caravan-tent\"), \"yuntă\" (\"horse\" (generic)), \"aygur\" (\"stallion\"), \"homut\" (\"horse collar\") and \"alaša\" (\"pack horse\"), in Samoyedic (Northern and Southern), in some Finno-Ugric languages and Slavic languages, \"proves the antiquity of Turkic presence in the European area bordering Asia.\" He suggests that horse domestication originated with Turkic peoples, offering this as an explanation why horse terminology in the European area bordering Asia and in most of Eastern Europe is rooted in Turkic and not Indo-European vocabulary. He supports this hypothesis by making a tentative linguistic identification of Etruscans as a Uralic, proto-Hungarian people that had already undergone strong proto-Turkic influence in the third millennium BC, when Pontic invasions would have brought this people to the Carpathian Basin. A subsequent migration of Urnfield culture signature around 1250 BC is said to have caused this ethnic group to expand south in a general movement of people. This is equated with the upheaval of the Sea Peoples and the overthrow of an earlier Italic substrate at the onset of the \"Etruscan\" Villanovan culture.\n\nIn introduction to PCT Mario Alinei argues, following Cavalli Sforza, that the distribution of genetic markers largely corresponds to that of languages. He further contends that 80 percent of Europe's human genetic material dates back to the Paleolithic, and cites Bryan Sykes in claiming that only a fifth of European DNA can be traced back to neolithic incomers.\n\nA 2009 study comparing mitochondrial DNA lineages of late hunter-gatherers, early farmers, and modern Europeans found large differences between the three groups. In particular, 82 percent of hunter-gatherers had maternal lineages that are rare in modern central Europeans.\n\nThe origin of paternal lineages remains difficult to prove because modern science is unable to extract Y-DNA haplogroups from Paleolithic samples. However, the recent analysis of Arredi, Poloni and Tyler-Smith (2007) suggests that R1b-M269, the most common western European haplogroup, may have entered Europe only in the Neolithic.\n\nAlinei's \"Origini delle Lingue d’Europa\" was reviewed favourably in 1996 by Jonathan Morris in \"Mother Tongue\", a journal dedicated to the reconstruction of Paleolithic language, judging Alinei's theory as being\nboth simpler than its rivals and more powerful in terms of the insights it provides into language in the Meso- and Palaeolithic. While his book contains some flaws I believe that it deserves to be regarded as one of the seminal texts on linguistic archaeology, although given its lamentable lack of citation in English-language circles, it appears that recognition will have to wait until a translation of the original Italian appears.\nMorris's review was reprinted as the foreword to the 2000 edition of Alinei's book.\n\nRenzi (1997) sharply criticized Alinei's book, refuting in particular the claim of the presence of Latin and of its different territorial forms in Italy in the 2nd millennium BC. Renzi argues that this theory would subvert firmly established concepts of Romance philology and dialectology, such as the concepts of substratum, vulgar Latin and so on.\nAlinei's theory was again critically reviewed by Adiego Lajara (2002):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2687740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687740", "title": "Presentism (literary and historical analysis)", "text": "Presentism (literary and historical analysis)\n\nIn literary and historical analysis, presentism is the anachronistic introduction of present-day ideas and perspectives into depictions or interpretations of the past. Some modern historians seek to avoid presentism in their work because they consider it a form of cultural bias, and believe it creates a distorted understanding of their subject matter. The practice of presentism is regarded by some as a common fallacy in historical writing. \n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" gives the first citation for \"presentism\" in its historiographic sense from 1916, and the word may have been used in this meaning as early as the 1870s. The historian David Hackett Fischer identifies presentism as a fallacy also known as the \"fallacy of \"nunc pro tunc\"\". He has written that the \"classic example\" of presentism was the so-called \"Whig history\", in which certain 18th- and 19th-century British historians wrote history in a way that used the past to validate their own political beliefs. This interpretation was presentist because it did not depict the past in objective historical context but instead viewed history only through the lens of contemporary Whig beliefs. In this kind of approach, which emphasizes the relevance of history to the present, things that do not seem relevant receive little attention, which results in a misleading portrayal of the past. \"Whig history\" or \"whiggishness\" are often used as synonyms for \"presentism\" particularly when the historical depiction in question is teleological or triumphalist.\n\nPresentism has a shorter history in sociological analysis, where it has been used to describe technological determinists who interpret a change in behavior as starting with the introduction of a new technology. For example, scholars such as Frances Cairncross proclaimed that the Internet had led to \"the death of distance\", but most community ties and many business ties had been transcontinental and even intercontinental for many years.\n\nPresentism is also a factor in the problematic question of history and moral judgments. Among historians, the orthodox view may be that reading modern notions of morality into the past is to commit the error of presentism. To avoid this, historians restrict themselves to describing what happened and attempt to refrain from using language that passes judgment. For example, when writing history about slavery in an era when the practice was widely accepted, letting that fact influence judgment about a group or individual would be presentist and thus should be avoided.\n\nCritics respond that to avoid moral judgments is to practice moral relativism, a controversial idea. Some religious historians argue that morality is timeless, having been established by God; they say it is not anachronistic to apply timeless standards to the past. (In this view, while mores may change, morality does not.)\n\nOthers argue that application of religious standards has varied over time as well. Saint Augustine, for example, holds that there exist timeless moral principles, but contends that certain practices (such as polygamy) were acceptable in the past because they were customary but now are neither customary nor acceptable.\n\nFischer, for his part, writes that while historians might not always manage to avoid the fallacy completely, they should at least try to be aware of their biases and write history in such a way that they do not create a distorted depiction of the past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6343677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6343677", "title": "Pumpkin bomb", "text": "Pumpkin bomb\n\nPumpkin bombs were conventional aerial bombs developed by the Manhattan Project and used by the United States Army Air Forces against Japan during World War II. It was a close replication of the Fat Man plutonium bomb with the same ballistic and handling characteristics, but it used non-nuclear conventional high explosives. It was mainly used for testing and training purposes, which included combat missions flown with pumpkin bombs by the 509th Composite Group. The name \"pumpkin bomb\" was the actual reference term used in official documents from the large, fat ellipsoidal shape of the munition casing instead of the more usual cylindrical shape of other bombs, intended to enclose the Fat Man's spherical \"physics package\" (the plutonium implosion nuclear weapon core).\n\nPumpkin bombs were a means of providing realistic training with non-nuclear bombs for the 509th Composite Group's Boeing B-29 Superfortress crews assigned to drop the atomic bomb. The pumpkin bomb had the same weight, size, and weight distribution as the Fat Man plutonium bomb, giving it the same ballistic and handling characteristics. Specifications for the bomb required that it be carried in the forward bomb bay of a Silverplate B-29 bomber and be fuzed to be effective against actual targets.\n\nPumpkin bombs were produced in both inert and high-explosive variants. The inert versions were filled with a cement-plaster-sand mixture that was combined with water to , the density of the Composition B high-explosive versions. The filler of both variants had the same weight and weight distribution as the inner spherical \"physics package\" of the Fat Man plutonium bomb.\n\nThe concept for the high-explosive pumpkin bomb was originated in December 1944 by U.S. Navy Captain William S. Parsons, the head of the Ordnance Division at Manhattan Project's Los Alamos Laboratory, and United States Army Air Forces Lieutenant Colonel Paul W. Tibbets, commander of the 509th Composite Group. Prior testing was carried out with an inert version.\n\nThe name \"pumpkin bomb\" originated with Parsons and Dr. Charles C. Lauritsen of the California Institute of Technology, who managed the development team. The name was used for the training bombs in official meetings and documents, and probably derived from its large ellipsoidal shape.\nOn the other hand, anecdotal sources attribute the naming of the bombs to a pumpkin color: While the bombs were painted olive drab or khaki in the field, photographs show that at least the units delivered to Tinian were shipped in the same yellow zinc chromate primer color worn by Fat Man.\n\nWhile many Manhattan scientists expected that the development of the means of delivery of the atomic bomb would be straightforward, Parsons, with his experience of the proximity fuze program, expected that it would involve considerable effort. The test program was initiated on 13 August 1943 at the Naval Proving Ground in Dahlgren, Virginia, where a scale model of the Fat Man plutonium bomb was developed. On 3 March 1944, testing moved to Muroc Army Air Field, California. The initial tests demonstrated that the Fat Man assembly was unstable in flight, and that its fuzes did not work properly.\n\nThe shells of the pumpkin bomb were manufactured by two Los Angeles firms, Consolidated Steel Corporation and Western Pipe and Steel Company, while the tail assembly was produced by Centerline Company of Detroit. After initial development, management of the program was turned over to the U.S. Navy Bureau of Ordnance in May 1945. A total of 486 live and inert training bombs were eventually delivered, at a cost of between $1,000 and $2,000 apiece.\n\nAll of the inert versions went from the manufacturers directly to Wendover Army Air Field, Utah, by rail, where they were used by the 216th Base Unit in flight testing of the bomb. Some test drop missions were flown by the 509th Composite Group's 393d Bombardment Squadron as training exercises. The bombs intended as live ordnance were shipped to the Naval Ammunition Depot, McAlester, Oklahoma, for filling with explosives. The Composition B was poured as a slurry, solidified in a drying facility for 36 hours, sealed, and shipped by railroad to the Port Chicago Naval Magazine, California, for shipment by sea to Tinian.\n\nThe pumpkin bombs were externally similar to the Fat Man bomb in size and shape, and both had the same \"California Parachute\" square tail assembly and single-point attachment lug. The pumpkin bomb had three contact fuzes arranged in an equilateral triangle around the nose of the bomb while the atomic bomb had four fuse housings. The atomic bomb had its shell sections bolted together and sealed with externally-applied, sprayed-on liquid asphalt, but most if not all of the pumpkin bombs were welded, with a four-inch hole used for filling the shell. The Fat Man also had four external mounting points for radar antennas which the pumpkin bombs did not have.\n\nThe pumpkin bombs were in length and in maximum diameter. They weighed , consisting of for the shell, for the tail assembly, and of Composition B filler. The shells were made of steel plate and the tail assemblies from aluminum plate.\n\nCombat missions were flown by the 509th Composite Group on 20, 23, 26 and 29 July and 8 and 14 August 1945, using the bombs against individual targets in Japanese cities. A total of 49 bombs were dropped on 14 targets, one bomb was jettisoned into the ocean, and two were aboard aircraft that aborted their missions.\n\nMission parameters and protocols were similar to those of the actual atomic bomb missions, and all targets were located in the vicinity of the cities designated for atomic attack. The bombs were released at an altitude of and the aircraft then went into the sharp turn required on a nuclear mission. After the war, the Strategic Bombing Survey concluded that the pumpkin bombs were \"a reasonably effective weapon against Japanese plants when direct hits were scored on vital areas, or when the near miss was sufficiently close to important buildings to cause severe structural damage.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18018154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018154", "title": "Radivoj Radić", "text": "Radivoj Radić\n\nRadivoj Radić (22 January 1954, Livno, today Bosnia and Herzegovina) is a Serbian historian, specialist for Byzantine studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "19964493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19964493", "title": "Raouf Abbas", "text": "Raouf Abbas\n\nRaouf Abbas (24 August 1939 – 26 June 2008) was an Egyptian historian and a professor of modern history at Cairo University and president of the Egyptian Society of Historical Studies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25190549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190549", "title": "Richard Indreko", "text": "Richard Indreko\n\nRichard Indreko ( in Puiatu, Purdi parish, Järvamaa – 10 March 1961 in Stockholm) was an Estonian historian and archaeologist. He is noted for his research into ancient Estonian history.\n\nFrom 1923-1927 he studied at the University of Tartu and became a lecturer there in 1933. From 1933 to 1937 he led the excavations in the Kunda Lammasmäel ja Asvas. He conducted important research into the \"Origin and Area of Settlement of the Finno-Ugrian peoples\".\n\nIn 1941 he published \"Mid Stone Age in Estonia\" (\"Keskmine kiviaeg Eestis\"). In 1943 he fled to Finland and settled a year later in Sweden. He died in Stockholm in 1961. Shortly afterwards his \"Prehistoric Age of Estonia\" was published in 1962.\n"}
{"id": "14705625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14705625", "title": "Robin Donkin", "text": "Robin Donkin\n\nRobin Arthur Donkin FBA (born Robert Arthur) (1928–2006) was an English historian and geographer who served as a reader in historical geography in the University of Cambridge's Department of Geography in 1990. A fellow of the British Academy, Donkin published works on a wide range of subjects, including Cistercian monasteries, agricultural terracing, the history of pearls and pearl fishing, the Muscovy duck, the Guinea fowl, and the history of spices and aromatics.\n\nRobert Donkin was born in 1928 in the town of Morpeth, Northumberland, where he received his education at Jarrow Grammar School, and later took geography in 1950 at King's College, Newcastle upon Tyne. In Durham University, Donkin completed his doctorate under M.R.G. Conzen, published later in 1957 as \"The Cistercian Contribution to the Geography of England and Wales in the Twelfth and Thirteenth Centuries\".\n\nDonkin also served in the British Armed Forces as a Lieutenant in the Royal Artillery. His National Service postings included Egypt and Jordan, where he saw field work. He was elected King George VI Research Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley in 1955. It was here that he was influenced by the American cultural geographer Carl O. Sauer, and developed interest in agricultural origins and the aboriginal New World. Donkin returned to Britain in 1956, and working at the University of Edinburgh Geography Department for the next two years.\n\nDonkin published a number of papers on Cistercian farming activity, introducing a new geographical dimension to monastic studies. Among his notable contributions to the field of historical geography is a 60-page synthesis on \"Changes in the Early Middle Ages\", which was contributed by him to the \"A New Historical Geography of England\", published in 1973. Academic interest in Middle America eventually led Donkin to Cambridge University, where he earned a Fellowship at Jesus College, Cambridge, and served as a distinguished historical geographer.\n\nDonkin's work \"Beyond Price: pearls and pearl-fishing, origins to the Age of Discoveries\" in 1998 - a work containing a mammoth 60 page bibliography - was published as a memoir of the American Philosophical Society. In 2003, Donkin produced \"Between East and West: the Moluccas and the traffic in spices up to the arrival of Europeans\", a book on maritime explorations in the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean.\n\nDonkin traveled to North Africa, Middle America, South America, South India, South China and to Chinese Turkestan. His final work was an incomplete analysis of the cultural geography of maize.\n\n\"The Independent\", (London), 10 May 2006 summed up Donkin's life as follows:\nRobert Arthur Donkin, geographer: born Morpeth, Northumberland 28 October 1928' King George VI Memorial Fellow, University of California, Berkeley 1955-56' Assistant Lecturer, Department of Geography, Edinburgh University 1956-58' Lecturer, Department of Geography, Birmingham University 1958-70' Lecturer in the Geography of Latin America, Cambridge University 1971-90, Reader in Historical Geography 1990-96 (Emeritus)' Fellow, Jesus College, Cambridge 1972- 96 (Emeritus), Tutor 1975-96' FBA1985' married 1970 Jennifer Kennedy (one daughter)' died Cambridge 1 February 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "36592706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36592706", "title": "Ronald Vere Tooley", "text": "Ronald Vere Tooley\n\nRonald Vere Tooley (29 September 1898 - 12 October 1986) was an English map dealer, an authority on early maps and cartographers, a noted compiler of catalogues on maps, cartography and antiquarian books, author of \"Maps and Map-makers\", and founder of the Map Collectors' Circle which published a series of monographs on historical cartography in the period 1963-1975. He is considered the founder of the antiquarian map trade.\n\nTooley was born on Michaelmas and adopted the nickname \"Mick\".\n\nTooley was born and raised in Islington, London, and educated at the City of London School. Towards the end of World War I he enlisted in the Queen's Westminster Rifles. After his basic training he left for France and took part in the Battle of Cambrai, where he was one of 120 survivors from an initial force of 400 men. On being demobilised in 1919 and having no definite career plans, he came across an illustrated catalogue of antiquarian books, published by James Tregaskis of Great Russell Street. The idea of working in the bookselling field appealed to him, and armed with a letter of introduction he made the acquaintance of Francis Edwards Ltd., and was summarily employed.\n\nAfter World War I the book trade enjoyed a time of relative prosperity, but with the Wall Street collapse in 1929, economic depression hit the commercial sector in many countries, the secondhand book trade being no exception. In the 1930s Tooley left Francis Edwards Ltd and opened The Atlas Bookshop, just off Charing Cross Road, and started dealing almost exclusively in antiquarian maps. Between 1932 and 1934 he collaborated with a Mr M. Sinelnikoff of Orion Booksellers Ltd. Sinelnikoff's passion was old maps, charts and globes, and with Tooley's interest, a fertile conjunction of scholarly minds was created. Tooley had always been interested in Colour Plate books, and in 1935 Batsford published his first book on the subject \"Some English Books with Coloured Plates\". When The Atlas Bookshop closed in 1936 Tooley started work at the Parker Gallery in Albemarle Street - the firm specialising in military and sporting prints as well as old maps. With the outbreak of World War II in 1939 Tooley found work as a telephone operator, but still worked with old books and maps in his spare time.\n\nIn 1946 the management of Francis Edwards Ltd, keenly aware of Tooley's considerable business expertise and knowledge of old maps, invited him to rejoin the firm. Here he continued his research, spending long hours in the Map Room of the British Museum. His talents soon led to his being appointed a director of the firm. In 1949 his second book \"Maps & Map-makers\" was published, praised as a sound introduction and guide to a complex field, and running to many editions. Tooley retired from Francis Edwards Ltd in 1975 and in 1979 joined Peter Scott and Peter Kalms in setting up a new company R.V.Tooley Ltd, he was joined by his stepson Douglas Adams and in October 1979 his stepson Stephen Luck joined them, first trading at Tring, Hertfordshire and then in the Spring of 1980 33 Museum Street, this company closed in 1982 and became \"Tooley Adams & Co\". Together they developed the firm into one of the leading antique map dealers, supplying maps to dealers, museums and libraries all over the world.\n\n\"The Map Collector's Series\" is widely regarded as the greatest of Tooley's achievements. The idea of producing a series of monographs on maps was first discussed in 1960 with Robert Stockwell. The interest generated by this idea was widespread and led to The Map Collector's Circle being formed in April 1963 under Tooley and David Schrire. The series was acclaimed throughout the world, and seen as an important contribution to cartography. It also led to the founding of the Carta Press, aimed at publishing authoritative works on cartography. The first publication, in 1968, was \"Maps of the African Continent and Southern Africa\", and was followed in 1970 by \"County Atlases of the British Isles\" by R.A. Skelton of the Map Room of the British Museum. \"The Map Collector\" magazine was started by Tooley in 1977 when the Map Collector's Circle ceased publishing. Each issue of \"The Map Collector\" consisted of articles and information provided by respected authorities, collectors and dealers.\n\nIn his 75th year Tooley was elected a Fellow of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society. The festschrift \"My Head is a Map\" was compiled in 1973 for his 75th birthday by Helen Wallis and Sarah Tyacke, both Map Librarians from the British Library and celebrated his contributions to the world of antiquarian maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "28905151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28905151", "title": "Rosemary Sayigh", "text": "Rosemary Sayigh\n\nRosemary Sayigh (born 1935 in Birmingham, United Kingdom) is a British-born journalist and scholar of Middle Eastern history. Sayigh is known for her works on the Palestinian people, particularly refugees from the Nakba who fled to Lebanon. Her son is fellow scholar Yezid Sayigh, after marrying Yusef Sayigh in 1953. She earned her MA from the American University of Beirut in 1970 and her PhD from University of Hull in 1994.\n\nSayigh was a journalist with the Economist until 1970, when she left due to disgust with \"the Economist's uncritical, pro-American position on the Vietnam War\".\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, Sayigh and her family were evacuated from their home in Beirut to Cyprus.\n\nShe is the author of \"Palestinians: From Peasants to Revolutionaries; A People’s History\" (1979, Zed Books) and \"Too Many Enemies: The Palestinian Experience in Lebanon\" (1993, Zed Books).\n"}
{"id": "29967052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29967052", "title": "Sergey Kuznetsov (historian)", "text": "Sergey Kuznetsov (historian)\n\nSergey Olegovich Kuznetsov (; born 7 December 1960, Leningrad) is a Russian historian and art historian, specialising in the history of the Stroganov family.\n\nBetween 1981 and 1987 Kuznetsov studied Russian and world art at the Faculty of History at the Leningrad State University. Ivan Chechot (Иван Дмитриевич Чечот) was one of his teachers. In 1984, in parallel with his studies, he began working at the department of painting (18th–19th centuries) at the State Russian Museum and participated in preparations for the anniversary exhibition of works by Dmitry Levitzky. Art painting of Levitsky became Kuznetsov's first significant research subject and resulted in his thesis, \"Official prohibitions in the work of D. G. Levitzky. Their art principles and an ideological orientation\" («Официальные заказы в творчестве Д. Г. Левицкого. Их художественные принципы и идеологическая направленность», 1987) and the book \"Неизвестный Левицкий. Портретное творчество живописца в контексте петербургского мифа\" (1996).\n\nHis further research work has included paintings of Jan Chrucki, Alexander Brullov, William Heste and Adam Menelaws. Kuznetsov is the author of more than 70 articles in the \"Grove Dictionary of Art\" (1996). Between 1990 and 2000 he reviewed Saint Petersburg art exhibitions for the magazines «Итоги» and «Арт-хроника» and newspapers «Российская культура» and «Время новостей».\n\nThe history of the Stroganov family became the second important topic of his research. In 1991, he examined the history of the Stroganov Palace. In 2006, he edited \"Not worse than Thomon\" («Не хуже Томона»), where he described the period of 1771–1817 in the history of the Stroganovs. The book was assessed by \"Vremya Novostei\" as one of the best Russian books in the field of art in 2007. In 2008, he defended his doctor of historical sciences dissertation on the subject «Государственная и меценатская деятельность рода Строгaновых в имперский период» (State and patronal activity of Stroganovs during the imperial period). At the same time he wrote the book \"Дома и дворцы Строгaновых\" (Houses and Palaces of Stroganovs), in which he described the history of the Stroganovs in the Tsarist period. New edition of this book with title '500 years of Strogonov' published in 2012 with special part about Marino estate of Sophia Stroganov near St. Petersburgh. At same year such monument as Strogonoff garden got his book 'Stogonov dacha. About almost disappeared monument'. In 2003, he was awarded the Medal \"In Commemoration of the 300th Anniversary of Saint Petersburg\" («В память 300-летия Санкт-Петербурга»).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8815384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8815384", "title": "Star war", "text": "Star war\n\nA star war was a decisive conflict between rival polities of the Maya civilization during the first millennium AD. The term comes from a specific type of glyph used in the Maya script, which depicts a star showering the earth with liquid droplets, or a star over a shell. It represents a verb but its phonemic value and specific meaning have not yet been deciphered. The name \"star war\" was coined by the epigrapher Linda Schele to refer to the glyph, and by extension to the type of conflict that it indicates.\n\nMaya inscriptions assign episodes of Maya warfare to four distinct categories, each represented by its own glyph. Those accorded the greatest significance by the Maya were described with the \"star war\" glyph, representing a major war resulting in the defeat of one polity by another. This represents the installation of a new dynastic line of rulers, complete dominion of one polity over another, or a successful war of independence by a formerly dominated polity.\n\nLosing a star war could be disastrous for the defeated party. The first recorded star war in 562, between Caracol and Tikal, resulted in a 120-year hiatus for the latter city. It saw a decline in Tikal's population, a cessation of monument erection, and the destruction of certain monuments in the Great Plaza. When Calakmul defeated Naranjo in a star war on December 24, 631, it resulted in Naranjo's ruler being tortured to death and possibly eaten. Another star war in February 744 resulted in Tikal sacking Caracol and capturing a personal god effigy of its ruler. An inscription from a monument found at Tortuguero (dating from 669) describes the aftermath of a star war: \"the blood was pooled, the skulls were piled\".\n\nMayanists have noted that the dates of recorded star wars often coincide with astronomical events involving the planet Venus, either when it was first visible in the morning or night sky or during its absence at inferior conjunction. Venus was known to Mesoamerican civilizations as the bringer of war (in contrast to the equivalent European belief assigning that characteristic to Mars). The Maya called it \"Chak Ek\"' or \"Great Star\" and made it the focus of detailed astronomical observation and calculation. The Dresden Codex, one of only four surviving Maya books, includes astronomical tables for calculating the position of Venus, which the codex depicts as spearing people as it passes overhead.\n\nSeventy percent of recorded star war dates are reported to correspond with Venus's evening phase, while 84 percent match the first appearance of the evening star. Star wars also appear to have had a seasonal bias, clustering in the dry season from November through January. Few were recorded to have happened during the planting season and none at all during harvest time, between mid-September and late October. There may also have been a correlation between star wars and solar eclipses; some star wars at Tikal seem to have taken place shortly after eclipses, in one case in July 743 only one day after a solar eclipse.\n\nThe precise nature of the proposed link between star wars and astronomical events is unclear. It is possible that events such as eclipses may have stimulated star wars, prompting the Maya to launch star wars in the belief that they had received a favorable omen for military endeavors. They may also have had astronomical connections with planets other than Venus; many star wars appear to be correlated with the retrograde periods of Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.\n\nA number of star wars are recorded in Mayan inscriptions dating from between 562 and 781. These include:\n"}
{"id": "19981425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19981425", "title": "Suren Yeremian", "text": "Suren Yeremian\n\nSuren Tigrani Yeremian (; ; – 17 December 1992) was an Armenian historian and cartographer who specialized in the studies concerning the formation of the Armenian nation and pre-medieval Armenia and the Caucasus. He devoted nearly 30 years of his scholarly efforts in reconstructing the \"Ashkharatsuyts\", a seventh-century atlas commonly attributed to Anania Shirakatsi.\n\nYeremyan was born into a family of laborers in Tiflis, Georgia in 1908 and attended a Russian school there. Yeremyan was an avid reader of history books and his interest in Armenian history grew especially when he chanced upon reading Nicholas Adontz's \"Armenia in the Period of Justinian\". He moved back to Armenia and in 1928, he was accepted to Yerevan State University.\n\nHe studied history and economics and graduated from there in 1931. From 1935 until 1941, Yeremyan worked at the Soviet Academy of Sciences' department of Oriental Studies in Leningrad. While there, Yeremyan also taught Armenian history at Leningrad State University's department of History and Philology and he defended his dissertation, titled \"The Feudal Organization of Kartli during the Marzpanate Period.\"\n\nIn 1941, he moved back to Yerevan and continued his studies at the Institute of Material Culture and History, which was still under the auspices of the Soviet Academy of Sciences. He earned the title of professor in 1953, having defended his second dissertation (from Moscow State University) in his \"The Social Structure of Ancient Armenia.\" He held the position of director of the department of history from 1953 to 1958 and in 1963 he was inducted as a member of the Armenian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIt was during this time that Yeremyan shifted his focus to composing historical atlases: one of his most notable contributions was on the study of a seventh-century \"Ashkharatsuyts\", where he spent a great deal of his energies in not only translating and researching the background behind the atlas but also on the supposed author of the work, Anania Shirakatsi. In 1963, his \"Armenia According to the Ashkharatsuyts\" was published, although Yeremyan would in subsequent years go on to revise some of the views, most notably coming to the conclusion that Anania Shirakatsi was its true author, that he had concluded in the work. He also contributed in writing several articles in the \"USSR Historical Atlas\". Yeremyan was also one of the key advocates who pushed for the publication of the \"History of the Armenian People\" (Yerevan, 1971–1984, 8 volumes), authoring numerous articles on the origins of the Armenian people, the kingdom of Urartu, and on the social, economic, cultural and political structure of the Kingdom of Armenia. He would also go on to write numerous articles in the Armenian Soviet Encyclopedia.\n\nHaving struggled with a serious illness for many years, Yeremyan died in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14155110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14155110", "title": "Sussex's Men", "text": "Sussex's Men\n\nThe Earl of Sussex's Men was a playing company or troupe of actors in Elizabethan and Jacobean England, most notable for their connection with the early career of William Shakespeare.\n\nThomas Radclyffe, 3rd Earl of Sussex was one of the most powerful aristocrats during the middle years of Queen Elizabeth's reign; he was named Lord Chamberlain in 1572. Like other prominent noblemen of the period, he kept a troupe of players among his retainers. The limited records of the era reveal the existence of such troupes of actors, like Leicester's Men, Pembroke's Men, or Worcester's Men, mainly in the documents of the cities they visited during their tours of the country; similarly, Sussex's Men enter the historical record when they performed in Nottingham in March 1569. From then through the 1570s they also played in Maldon, Ipswich, Canterbury, Dover, Bristol, and other towns; the troupe had six members during this era. Since their patron was serving as Lord Chamberlain, they were sometimes called the Lord Chamberlain's Men — though they should not be confused with the more famous Lord Chamberlain's Men of the 1590s, the company of Shakespeare and Richard Burbage.\n\nGiven their patron's status, it is not surprising that Sussex's Men played at Court several times in this period, most often during the Christmas holidays. Their repertory consisted of anonymous and now-lost plays that are known only by their titles: \"The Red Knight\", \"The Cruelty of a Stepmother\", and \"Murderous Michael\" are three examples. The company acted \"The Cynocephali\" (\"Dog-heads\") at Court on 2 February 1577. John Adams was apparently the leader of the troupe (he received their fees for them); Richard Tarlton began his career with Sussex's Men in these years, before going to Queen Elizabeth's Men in 1583.\n\nIn 1583 the 3rd Earl of Sussex died childless, and was succeeded by his younger brother Henry Radclyffe as 4th Earl. During the ten years he held the earldom, Sussex's Men are known primarily through their provincial tours. In 1590 and 1591 they formed a temporary alliance with Queen Elizabeth's Men, formerly the leading company of the time but then in decline.\n\nSussex's Men ended a near-decade absence from Court with a performance there on 2 January 1592. At around this time they may have been connected with Christopher Marlowe and Thomas Kyd, though specific details have not survived.\n\nIt was in the winter of 1593–94, during an especially difficult epidemic of bubonic plague, that Sussex's Men achieved their greatest prominence and importance. Because of the plague, the London theatres were closed almost continuously for two years, from the summer of 1592 to the spring of 1594; during the cold months of winter, however, the plague tended to abate, and theatrical manager and promoter Philip Henslowe was able to open his Rose Theatre for truncated winter seasons in both years. In 1592–93, Lord Strange's Men were at the Rose; but the next year that company was touring the countryside, and Henslowe brought in Sussex's Men for a season running from December 26, 1593 to February 6, 1594. (Whether the death of the 4th Earl of Sussex in 1593, and the succession of his son Robert Radclyffe as 5th Earl, was significant in this is not known.)\n\nUsually, the acting companies of the period owned their own plays, which they purchased outright from playwrights; Henslowe was unusual in that he owned some plays personally, and the acting troupes who worked with (or for) him could act those plays. In this way, Sussex's Men performed Marlowe's \"The Jew of Malta\" on February 4, 1594 — a play that has previously been in the repertory of Lord Strange's Men. In their six-week winter season at the Rose, Sussex's Men performed 30 times, giving 13 different plays at least once. Again, their repertory consisted mostly of anonymous and now-lost plays, like \"Richard the Confessor\", \"King Lud\", \"Abraham and Lot\", and \"The Fair Maid of Italy\" — though they also performed the extant \"George a Greene\" (published 1599) four times.\n\nThe crucial item in their Rose repertory was the play that Henslowe's Diary consistently calls \"Titus & Ondronicus\", which Sussex's Men played three times, on January 23 and 28 and February 6, 1594. The play was popular, and produced high profits for Henslowe, of 40 shillings or more at each performance. Scholars unanimously recognize this as Shakespeare's \"Titus Andronicus\". When Shakespeare's \"Titus\" was first published in 1594, the title page of the first quarto states that the play was acted by three different companies, Lord Strange's Men (also called Derby's Men), Pembroke's Men, and Sussex's Men. Lord Strange's Men had acted a \"Titus & Vespacian\" in 1592; scholars debate the relationship between the two \"Titus\" plays, though since the earlier work is no longer extant the relationship cannot be fully or finally ascertained. (Our English version of the play has no character named Vespasian, and this could have been a play about the father-and-son Roman emperors Vespasian and Titus. However, a German version of \"Titus Andronicus\" made in Shakespeare's time included a major character named Vespasian, which could indicate a lost earlier version which was taken into Germany.)\n\nIn the spring of 1594, the plague abated and the London theatres opened for a sustained period. Sussex's Men teamed with Queen Elizabeth's Men for two joint performances of Robert Greene's \"Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay\" in early April; but after that, Sussex's Men disappeared from the London theatre scene. Perhaps they were squeezed out by more formidable competition from the re-organized Admiral's Men and Lord Chamberlain's Men. They returned to touring and playing the provinces, where they are known as late as 1618.\n"}
{"id": "1390457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390457", "title": "The Old Straight Track", "text": "The Old Straight Track\n\nThe Old Straight Track: Its Mounds, Beacons, Moats, Sites and Mark Stones is a book by Alfred Watkins, first published in 1925, describing the existence of alleged ley lines in Britain.\n\nWatkins presents a methodical and thorough exposition of his theories of ley lines, following an earlier much shorter publication, \"Early British Trackways\" (1922). The book has a preface, thirty chapters, four appendices and an index. There are many figures, and photographs taken by the author.\n\nThe book is considered the first book written about leys, and the first book to document and map alleged ley lines in Britain, primarily southern England.\n\nThe book was disregarded by archaeologists but saw a resurgence of interest with the rise of New Age ideas in the 1960s. Watkins' ideas also influenced contemporary psychogeography, including Iain Sinclair's \"Lud Heat\" (1975), which in turn influenced Peter Ackroyd's novel \"Hawksmoor\" (1985).\n\nWatkins' work met with early scepticism from archaeologists, one of whom, O. G. S. Crawford, refused to accept advertisements for \"The Old Straight Track\" in the journal \"Antiquity\". \n\nOne criticism of Watkins' ley line theory states that given the high density of historic and prehistoric sites in Britain and other parts of Europe, finding straight lines that \"connect\" sites is trivial and ascribable to coincidence. A statistical analysis of lines concluded: \"the density of archaeological sites in the British landscape is so great that a line drawn through virtually anywhere will 'clip' a number of sites.\" \n\nThe book was reprinted as on April 2, 1994 by \"Abacus\". Editions or reprints were published in 1925, 1933, 1945, 1948, 1970, 1974 and 1994. The Abacus edition of 1970 was reprinted up to 1999 at least, and carries a copyright dated 1970 \"Allen Watkins and Marion Watkins\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44621836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44621836", "title": "Timeline of Māori battles", "text": "Timeline of Māori battles\n\nThis timeline sets out intertribal battles involving Māori people in what is now New Zealand.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9364311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9364311", "title": "Titus Labienus (historian)", "text": "Titus Labienus (historian)\n\nTitus Labienus was an orator and historian in the time of Augustus, nicknamed Rabienus for his vigorous style. He killed himself when the Senate had his books burned. Caligula later overrode the Senate and had the books restored.\n\nLittle is known about his early life. He did not come from aristocracy or the influential Roman family Labieni. Instead, he grew up poor and unpopular.\n\nAlthough in his youth Titus Labienus Rabienus was considered unimportant, as an adult he garnered fame for his works as an historian and orator and has come to be regarded as one of the most instrumental and important historians of all time. At the time, Rome was a new monarchy, Augustus had assumed power, and there was a lot of animosity in the air between the people who were for and those who were against the monarchy that had taken over the Roman Empire. Continuously, people would go throughout the city of Rome and either publicly state or publish pamphlets with negative comments and accusations about the new emperor and monarchy. Titus Labienus Rabienus eagerly joined the cause against the new monarchy, \"flailing Augustan order\" and vigorously supported Pompey the Great (106 BC to 46 BC), a statesman and general of the late Roman Republic and opponent of Julius Caesar for forming the monarchy.\n\nAs a historian, Titus Labienus would viciously attack the different classes of Roman society thus eventually leading to his nickname Rabienus or “rabid one”, for his \"furious invective\". His writings were full of such controversial material that when he recited his works in public, he would have to pass over sections that were too discordant. Instead, he would allude to the missing information by saying that they were to be read after his death. Titus Labienus Rabienus was also recognized throughout Rome as an important member of the academic profession or “manus orator”.\n\nAs time progressed the amount of pamphlets swirling about Rome began to grow and the Emperor Augustus began to put into place stricter regulations on writing, initially punishing any writers who attacked anyone (particularly himself) then moving to censor writings themselves.\n\nAs both an author and a professor, both changes to Roman law further angered Titus Labienus Rabienus. As an author he wanted the freedom to write what he wanted to write, not what the government wanted or would allow. And as a professor, he wanted to be able to teach the truth, not just what the Roman government wanted people to know. In general, the loss of freedom of speech aggravated Titus Labienus Rabienus to voice his disapproval even more of the new monarchy. As even more time progressed, Augustus became even stricter until he finally created a new type of punishment for this “new crime” of voicing one’s opinion. With this new type of punishment, depending on how guilty one was or how serious the crime one committed against the state was, either one or all of one’s life works were to be burned at the stake. When the new law was first declared, even members of the Senate thought that was “an unusual way of inflicting punishment upon scholarship.”\n\nIt was the professors, like Titus Labienus Rabienus, who began to feel the effects of the new law first because it was also illegal to even own, carry, or read any of the restricted material that was to be burned at the stake. His conflict with the government eventually led to his own trial (6 to 8 AD), the first of its kind, where the senate found him guilty of harming the state and literary treason and as the law stated, his life works were sentenced to the stake.\n\nUpon hearing the verdict that he was guilty of literary treason and that his entire library was sentenced to flames, Titus Labienus Rabienus decided to kill himself. He went to the mausoleum of his ancestors, walled himself up, and committed suicide, becoming the first Roman martyr. He refused his friends offers to cremate his body for he was not going to let the fiery element that had devoured his works touch him. Through his death, he was able to send a message about censorship to both Augustus, the emperor of Rome, and to Roman citizens.\n\nBy becoming the first Roman martyr and dying in such a dramatic fashion, Titus was able to bring attention to his cause and therefore rally more support. He had the academic world upset because he made them realize the tragic implications of having everything censored by the government. He made them think about all of the other classic writers who if they had been alive during this would have also had their works burned. He caused classrooms to discuss and debate the implications of his trial. He even got his enemy, Cassius Severus, to commit suicide declaring that if they wanted to destroy the works of Titus Labienus Rabienus, they would have to burn him alive as well because he knew them by heart. By having two of the best writers of time commit suicide, even more people began to take notice.\n\nTwo emperors later, Caligula began reversing some of the damage Augustus caused when he was in power. He permitted the works of Titus Labienus Rabienus, along with a couple other authors’ works (including Cassius Severus), to be hunted down and read again, claiming that it was in his own best interest to have all events recorded for future reference.\n\nAlthough, at the time of his death, he thought the damage of the flames was irreversible and that all of his life works were gone, many of his friends and fellow scholars risked their lives to save his works. Because of the risks they took, fifty years later his works were listed as standard classroom material by Quintilian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7971721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7971721", "title": "Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet", "text": "Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet\n\nThe Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet is a school of classical ballet in Saint Petersburg, Russia. Established in 1738 during the reign of Empress Anna, the academy was known as the Imperial Ballet School up until Soviet times, when, after a brief hiatus, the school was re-established as the Leningrad State Choreographic Institute. In 1957, the school was renamed in honor of the renowned pedagogue Agrippina Vaganova, who cultivated the method of classical ballet training that has been taught there since the late 1920s. Graduates of the school include some of the most famous ballet dancers, choreographers and teachers in history and many of the world's leading ballet schools have adopted elements of the Vaganova method into their own training.\n\nThe Vaganova Academy is the associate school of the Mariinsky Ballet, one of the world's leading ballet companies. Students of the school have found employment with ballet and contemporary companies worldwide, such as the Bolshoi Ballet, The Royal Ballet, American Ballet Theatre and the Mikhailovsky Ballet.\n\nThe school was established as the Imperial Theatrical School by decree of the Empress Anna on 4 May 1738 with the French Ballet Master Jean-Baptiste Lande as its director. The first classes occupied empty rooms in the Winter Palace in St. Petersburg and the first students were twelve boys and twelve girls. The purpose of the school was to form Russia's first professional dance company, which led to the formation of the Imperial Russian Ballet, the school becoming known as the Imperial Ballet School. The Imperial Russian Ballet is the direct predecessor of today's Mariinsky Ballet.\n\nNearly all the early teachers at the school were from Western Europe, including Franz Hilferding and Giovanni Canzianni. The first Russian teacher to join the school was Ivan Valberg. After the spread of ballet in Europe, the development of the school was influenced by a number of other teachers and methods, including Christian Johannson, a student of August Bournonville, and the Italian methods of Enrico Cecchetti, Pierina Legnani and Carlotta Brianza. Other renowned 19th-century dancers and ballet masters who taught at and were influential in the development in the school include Charles Didelot, Jules Perrot, Arthur Saint-Léon, Lev Ivanov, Marius Petipa and Mikhail Fokine.\n\nSince 1836, the school has been situated at 2 Rossi Street in St. Petersburg, which was renamed Leningrad after Vladimir Lenin's death in 1924. The Imperial Ballet School was dissolved by the new Soviet government, but later re-established on the same site as the Leningrad State Choreographic School. The Imperial Russian Ballet was also dissolved and re-established as the Soviet Ballet. The company was later renamed the Kirov Ballet following the assassination of Sergey Kirov in 1938. Despite later being given the current name Mariinsky Ballet, the company is still commonly known as the Kirov Ballet by the majority of Western audiences and the company still use that title when touring internationally.\n\nAgrippina Vaganova brought perhaps the most important developments in modern Russian Ballet. She graduated from the Imperial Ballet School in 1897 and danced with the Imperial Ballet, retiring from the stage early to pursue her teaching career following the Revolution. As the Soviet government had not yet re-established the school, Vaganova began her teaching career at the privately owned School of Russian Ballet, eventually joining the new Leningrad State Choreographic School in 1920. Vaganova was to become a highly renowned ballet teacher and is most noted for authoring \"The Principles of Classical Dance\", which outlines the training system she created and which heads the list of the numerous works produced by teachers of the school.\n\nVaganova's students would become some of the most famous ballet dancers of all time, and in recognition of her achievements, the school was named in her honour in 1957, six years after her death. There are a number of variations in the name of the school, but the official title in current use in the English-speaking world is Vaganova Ballet Academy.\n\nThe Vaganova academy which some consider the source of modern ballet is now over 275 years old. The Academy has over 300 students. As in other similar institutions, competition for a place at the school is very fierce, with over 3,000 children auditioning each year, 300 of these being from St. Petersburg. Approximately 60 students are selected annually, with some 25 eventually graduating from the school having completed the full course of training. The school employs approximately 75 dance teachers, 30 piano teachers, 40 academic teachers and 40 accompanists. The Rector of the academy is Nikolay Tsiskaridze and the Artistic Director is Zhanna Ayupova.\n\nAuditions for the school begin in June, and children must be at least 11 years to up.\n\nThe audition process is divided into three sections.\n\nAll students at the school begin by studying a programme of dance training, secondary school level education, French language and piano lessons. As they progress through the school, the programme becomes more intensive, with new subjects being added to the curriculum as the students become more advanced. In the first year, students study classical and historical dance progressing to character dance in the fourth year and pas de deux and mime in the sixth year. At the end of the 8th year of training, all students dance in a graduation gala at the Mariinsky Theatre. The most successful students may be offered a contract with the Mariinsky Ballet company, with the majority seeking employment with ballet companies in Russia and worldwide, including leading companies such as the Bolshoi Ballet, The Royal Ballet, and the American Ballet Theatre.\n\n Grigorovich\n"}
