{"id": "11156022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11156022", "title": "Alfred Caldwell Lily Pool", "text": "Alfred Caldwell Lily Pool\n\nThe Alfred Caldwell Lily Pool, also known as Lincoln Park Lily Pool, is an important example of Prairie School landscape architecture designed by Alfred Caldwell and located at 125 W. Fullerton Parkway (between Stockton and Cannon Drives) in Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois. Developed in 1936-38, it is one of Caldwell's most fully realized designs. It was designated a Chicago Landmark on November 6, 2002. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and as a National Historic Landmark on February 17, 2006.\n\nA Victorian-style artificially heated lily pool had originally been built in 1889 at the behest of Lincoln Park Commission Superintendent John Pettigrew to cultivate tropical water lilies.\n\nThe lilies proved hard to cultivate and maintain in the northern climate of Illinois and the pools became unsightly and were often considered \"Pettigrew's frog ponds\". By the 1930s the hour-glass shaped pond and its environs had fallen into ruin and disrepair. Landscape architect Alfred Caldwell was hired by the Works Progress Administration to completely redesign this area of Lincoln Park. Caldwell realized that the Lily Pool presented him with the unique opportunity to realize his poetic symbolism and design theories and philosophies.\nIn 1938 the project was nearing completion and the park district decide to cut a major expenditure for wildflower plantings. Caldwell cashed in his $5000 life insurance policy for $250, bought thousands of plants and transported them from Sauk County, Wisconsin, and the next day planted them all around the lily pools with the help of four others. The pool area is located just north of Lincoln Park Zoo and next to the Lincoln Park Conservatory.\n\nCaldwell had worked for landscape artist Jens Jensen from 1926 to 1931. Jensen's influence on Caldwell and the Lily Pool is evident in the Sun Opening or clearing, the curving walkways and meandering, stepping-stone limestone paths, and the circular benches that Jensen referred to as \"the council ring\" and \"friendship circles\" since there was no superior position to sit in. Frank Lloyd Wright's influence is represented in the organic architecture of the shelter and the Fullerton Parkway Gate, a prairie-style entryway into the property.\n\nIn the early 1950s, under Zoo Director Marlin Perkins, the pool was transformed into a water exhibit featuring exotic birds and water fowl and came to be known as The Rookery. Overgrazing by zoo birds had a devastating effect on the lily pond. A lack of landscaping management allowing invasive plants and \"weed\" trees to take over the understory, heavy human foot traffic, uncontrolled erosion, the introduction of plants materials that were invasive to the existing lilies, and inappropriate repairs (eroded areas covered with loose stones) all resulted in what Caldwell called (in 1990) \"a dead world\".\n\nFrom 1998 to 2002, the 2.7 acre Lily Pool underwent a major restoration by the Chicago Park District and the Lincoln Park Conservancy.\nThe Friends of Lincoln Park (now called The Lincoln Park Conservancy) raised $1.2 million toward the restoration of the lily pools. A similar sum was obtained from a grant from the USDA Forest Service. Wolff Landscape Architecture was hired to complete the project.\nFive focus groups were conducted to develop a consensus plan for restoration of the site;\n\nThe Chicago Park District and the Lincoln Park Conservancy manage a docent program at the Caldwell Lily Pool.\n\nThe Lily Pool's main gate is on the south side of Fullerton Parkway between Stockton and Cannon Drives (125 W Fullerton Parkway).\n\nThe Lily Pool is open seasonally from mid-April to mid-November from 7:30 a.m. to the earlier of dusk or 7:30 p.m. It is maintained by the Chicago Park District and Lincoln Park Conservancy.\n\nFree docent tours are available to the public on Fridays, Saturdays or Sundays from the Spring through Fall.\n\n"}
{"id": "17114246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17114246", "title": "Beacon Supergroup", "text": "Beacon Supergroup\n\nThe Beacon Supergroup is a geological formation exposed in Antarctica and deposited from the Devonian to the Triassic (). The unit was originally described as either a formation or sandstone, and upgraded to group and supergroup as time passed. It contains a sandy member known as the Beacon heights orthoquartzite.\nNamed after Beacon Heights. First named 1907, type section described in 1963. Originally dubbed a formation, with scope left (and later used) to expand to group, then supergroup, as better mapped and understood. Beacon Dome at the head of Griffith Glacier is named after the Beacon Supergroup.\n\n\nalso southern Victoria Land, Ross desert.\n\nThe series is over 1 km thick in places, and extends for over 1,000 miles.\n\nThe beds are almost flat lying, dipping at about 3° to the north; many are interleaved with dolerite sills.\n\nThe location of the formation in a cold, desert environment, and the lack of nutrients or soil (due to the purity of the sandstone) has led to the beacon sandstone being considered the closest analogue on Earth to Martian conditions, therefore many studies have been performed on life's survival there, mainly focusing on the lichen communities that form the modern inhabitants.\n\nThe unit is a \"Fine grained, arkosic quartz sandstone\". It is composed of shales, coals, conglomerates, and in places the occasional thin limestone bed.\n\nOriginally divided into 3 subunits, further refined into five facies, listed below from oldest to youngest:\n\nBasal. Grades into Junction sandstone. Variable thickness; (0-5/17/80 m), overlies pre-Devonian plutonic rocks, of igneous and metamorphic nature, with over 30 m erosional relief. Contains igneous and metamorphic clasts.\n\nPoorly sorted at base, influxes of coarser material. Coarseness is laterally variable - pebbles in places, sands in others, at same horizons. Planar beds, trough cross-bedding, flaser bedding, mud-drapes on some ripples; U-shaped burrows & escape structures; fining up cycles topped by desiccation cracks in places.\n\nProbably alluvial fan. Unidirectional flow & sheet-like deposition point to braided channels.\n\nPart of Taylor group. Gradational boundaries at top and bottom. up to 540m thick.\n\"Skolithos\" abundant.\nIntermediate between Brown Hills Conglomerate and Hatherton sandstone.\n\nPart of Taylor group. 250-300m thick. Divided into upper and lower subunits. \n\nLower: white/yellow sandstone. Layers of grit/conglomerate at base, silt at top, of some beds, which reach 15m thickness. Trough cross beds.\n\nUpper: Similar, but rust-weathering, current rippling.\n\nDates to late Middle Devonian, by correlation to the well constrained (by fish fossils) Aztec Siltstone nearby.\n\nAbundant ichnofauna.\n\nCommon bedforms: planar beds, bi-modal cross-beds, hummocky cross-stratification (HCS), laminated seds.\nDrainage to north east.\n\nPresumed marine for a long time on the basis of trace fossils such as \"Skolithos\", and typically marine HCS. But sedimentologists kept pointing out subaerial features such as desiccation cracks (polygonal jointing?), rain drop impressions, surface run-off channels, muddy veneers, and redbeds; also, river-like features such as unidirectional currents and small channels. The confusion was rectified when it was realised that HCS and the ichnofacies could in fact be marine.\n\nOnly known in north.\n\nSometimes just referred to as top 30m of Hatherton sst.\n\nWell sorted and cemented. Grains medium to coarse. Trough cross-beds. \"Haplostigma irregulare\" - lycopod remnants. Constrain to early Middle Devonian. Contact on Hatherstone sandstone is sharp, irregular, and in places cobbly - so erosional.\n\nThe Aztec siltstone bears interbedded sandstones and fish-bearing shales (providing late Mid Devonian age). Palæosols abundant and well developed, implying subaerial periods.\n\nOnly known in north. Top 7.5m contains dewatering structures - result of loading by tillites. This implies that the sediments were not consolidated in Permian times, and indeed that the area did not undergo glaciation during the Carboniferous ice age.\n\nMinimum thickness 135m. Coarse sands and finer muds; cross-bedded channels up to 12m wide. Small and large roots. Psilophytes, lycopod stems, logs.\n\nBase of Victoria group.\nAlso known as Metschel tillite.\nOverlays Hatherton and Aztec unconformably, resting on \"Maya\" erosion surface, which has only \"slight\" relief. Underlying sands thumped by granitic clasts, which form load structures.\n\nThis erosion surface was formed by downcutting streams, later scoured by glacial ice. Permian in age. Erosion surface covered with pebbly mudstone.\nFeatures rhythmic, varved layers, with some channel and sheet sandstones. Main unit is diamictite.\n\nPart of Victoria group.\nOverlays tillite unconformably, resting on \"Pyramid\" erosion surface which was formed by reworking of the tillite.\nDominated by \"Gangamopteris\".\nCross-bedded sandstones, with some mudstones, carbonaceous shales, and of course coal.\n\nComprises a conglomerate, sand- and silt-stone.\n\nThe Aztec sandstone contains units bearing body fossils of Fish: Phyllolepid placoderms, and thelodonts; abundant in fish beds; and conchostracans.\n\nAlso: Charred wood remnants, and the plants \"Glossopteris\" and \"Haplostigma\".\n\nWood bears clear rings, so environment must have been very seasonal. Large enough to represent temperate climate, at least. Glacial just before Beacon deposition.\n\nNothing else though.\n\nSparse below, but become common in Hatherton Sandstone. Changes from Skolithos-dominated facies to wide diversity and abundance, including vertical and horizontal burrows, and huge arthropod trackways. Size of arthropod tracks (<91 cm!) taken to imply that water must have been required for support. In Hatherton, \"Skolithos\" density decreases.\n\nPresent include:\n\n\nThe presence of crawling traces in such well sorted sands is problematic. The arthropod trackways are thought to have been formed in shallow water, and supersaturated sand has a shallow angle of repose. Thus either a layer of organic matter, perhaps in the form of an algal slime, must have supported the sediment, or the sediment must have been partially dry. In the context of subaerial features such as raindrop marks and desiccation cracks on associated horizons, the best explanation is that the trackways were formed on bedforms produced on a river bed, but while they were exposed by a low-flow period.\n\n\n\nSedimentological and palæontological data point to a shallow marine depositional environment.\n\nThe well-sorted nature of the unit suggests that it was probably deposited close to the shoreline, in a high energy environment. This is backed up by the absence of clay-sized particles, and the rounded, spherical shape of quartz grains.\n\nFeatures, such as the presence of coal beds and desiccation cracks, suggest that parts of the unit were deposited subaerially. Ripple marks and cross bedding show that shallow water was also commonly present.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1923817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923817", "title": "Behavioral geography", "text": "Behavioral geography\n\nBehavioral geography is an approach to human geography that examines human behavior using a disaggregate approach. Behavioral geographers focus on the cognitive processes underlying spatial reasoning, decision making, and behavior. In addition, behavioral geography is an ideology/approach in human geography that makes use of the methods and assumptions of behaviorism to determine the cognitive processes involved in an individual's perception of or response and reaction to their environment.\n\nBehavioral geography is that branch of human science, which deals with the study of cognitive processes with its response to its environment, through behaviorism.\n\nBecause of the name it is often assumed to have its roots in behaviorism. While some behavioral geographers clearly have roots in behaviorism due to the emphasis on cognition, most can be seen as cognitively oriented. Indeed, it seems that behaviorism interest is more recent and growing. This is particularly true in the area of human landscaping.\n\nBehavioral geography draws from early behaviorist works such as Tolman's concepts of \"cognitive maps\". More cognitively oriented, behavioral geographers focus on the cognitive processes underlying spatial reasoning, decision making, and behavior. More behaviorally oriented geographers are materialists and look at the role of basic learning processes and how they influence the landscape patterns or even group identity.\n\nThe cognitive processes include environmental perception and cognition, wayfinding, the construction of cognitive maps, place attachment, the development of attitudes about space and place, decisions and behavior based on imperfect knowledge of one's environs, and numerous other topics.\n\nThe approach adopted in behavioral geography is closely related to that of psychology, but draws on research findings from a multitude of other disciplines including economics, sociology, anthropology, transportation planning, and many others.\n\nNature is the world which surrounds us, including all life (plants, animals, organisms, humans, etc.) and physical features. Social Construction is the way that human beings process the world around us in our minds. According to Plato's 'Classical Theory of Categorization', humans create categories of what they see through experience and imagination. Social constructionism, therefore, is this characterization that makes language and semantics possible. If these experiences and imageries are not placed into categories, then the human ability to think about it becomes limited.\n\nThe social construction of nature looks to question different truths and understandings for how people treat nature, based on when and where someone lives. In academic circles, researchers look at how truths exist (ontology) and how truths are justified (epistemology). Construction is both a process and an outcome, where people's understandings of the word nature can be both literal and metaphorical, such as through giving it a human quality (Mother Nature). It can also be used to discredit science or philosophy.\n\nAs a subset of behavioral geography, the social construction of nature also includes environmental ethics and values, which affect how humans treat, and interact with, the natural environment. It incorporates ideas from environmental science, ecology, sociology, geography, biology, theology, philosophy, psychology, politics, economics, and other disciplines, to bring together the social, cultural and environmental dimensions of life. Social constructionism uses a lot of ideas from Western world thinking, but it is also incorporates truths from other world views, such as the Traditional Knowledge of Aboriginal groups, or more specifically ecofeminism and cosmology in India or ubuntu philosophy in Africa, for example. It is also related to postmodernism and the concept of the Anthropocene, that views humans as a force that is redirecting the geological history of Earth, destroying nature.\n\nThere are many ways of understanding and interpreting nature. According to Raymond Williams, there are three ways to give meaning to (or define) nature:\nAccording to Raymond Williams, language plays a role in how we understand, interpret, and give meaning to nature. This is how multiple truths can be valid at the same time.\n\nHumans have the ability to create images of their environments through experiences in their mind. These experiences allow us to create mental maps where we can create memories associated to space. It is a two-way process where the environment provides suggestions for what should be seen, and then the observer gives meaning with those suggestions.\n\nThese images have three parts:\nAccording to Kevin Lynch, the environmental images (or mental maps) that we make can either be weak or strong, where the process is ongoing and never stops.\n\nScience occurs at many dimensions and scales that do not consider culture, but can be motivated by politics, economics and ethics. Scientific knowledge consists of concepts and analysis, and is a way to represent nature.\n\nAccording to Michel Foucault, a truth does not have to be close to reality for it to be worth something or have power. For Carolyn Merchant, science can only be given power if a truth is interpreted as having worth.\n\nRelativism is important in the social construction of nature, as all truths are relative to the perspective they are coming from. There are two schools of thought on how the social construction of nature is relative:\nCritical realists reject the idea of relativism and rely more on natural sciences. Pragmatists have no set opinion on the matter and rely on social science and ethics, instead.\n\nAccording to Richard Rorty, relativism is relevant to pragmatism in three ways:\nAccording to Gilbert White, pragmatism has four main assumptions:\nRichard Rorty also associated three characteristics to pragmatism:\nBeing pragmatic is the more accepted school of thought for social construction being a relative concept.\n\n\n\nNature can be socially constructed by both culturally interpreting and physically shaping the environment. This can happen in three ways:\nConstructions can also be categorized by giving them meaning through the process of embodiment, which has three components:\nNo matter how nature becomes socially constructed, though, the process itself is limited by three dimensions:\nThe physical dimension is limited to the human body, where the brain is responsible for creating and selecting thoughts. The mental dimension is used to understand the physical dimension and is limited to human logic. The social dimension needs moral and social order and is used to give meaning to both what is physically present and what is culturally constructed. All three dimensions must be present and linked to be able to socially construct nature.\n\nThe social construction of nature has room for improvement in four main areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "18868543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18868543", "title": "Climate of Malta", "text": "Climate of Malta\n\nMalta has a Mediterranean climate according to the Köppen climate classification (\"Csa\"), with very mild winters and warm to hot summers. Rain occurs mainly in winter, with summer being generally dry. According to the Troll-Paffen climate classification and the Siegmund/Frankenberg climate classification, Malta lies within the subtropical zone, being at 35ºN latitude. \nThe average yearly temperature is around during the day and at night (one of the warmest temperature averages in Europe). In the coldest month – January – the typical maximum temperature ranges from during the day and the minimum from at night. In the warmest month – August – the typical maximum temperature ranges from during the day and the minimum from at night. \n\nGenerally, April starts with temperatures from during the day and at night. November has temperatures from during the day and at night. However even in the remaining four months of the year (December, January, February and March) temperatures sometimes reach . Amongst all capitals in the continent of Europe, Valletta—the capital of Malta—has the warmest winters, with average temperatures of around during the day and at night in the months of January and February. In March and December average temperatures are around during the day and at night. The average number of days above is 15, most of which occur during July and August. In Malta large fluctuations in temperature are rare.\nMalta is one of only a handful of locations in Europe with a USDA hardiness zone of 11a.\n\nMalta enjoys one of the most optimal arrangement of hours of daylight in Europe. Days in winter are not as short as in the northern part of the continent, the average hours of daylight in December, January and February is 10.3 hours (for comparison: London or Moscow or Warsaw - about 8 hours). The shortest day of the year - 21 December - sunrise is around 7:00 and sunset is around 17:00. The longest day of the year - 21 June - sunrise is around 5:30 and sunset is around 20:30.\n\nAs one might expect from Malta's high daylight hours, Malta enjoys around 3,000 hours of sunshine per year (also one of the highest in Europe), from an average of above 5 hours of sunshine per day in December to an average of above 12 hours of sunshine per day in July. Thus, Malta enjoys about twice the amount of sunshine as cities in the northern half of Europe. For comparison, London has 1,461 hours per year; however, in winter Malta has much more sunshine. For comparison, London has 37 hours while Malta has 161 hours of sunshine in December.\n\nAverage annual temperature of sea is (the highest annual sea temperature in Europe), from in the period from January to April to in August. In the 6 months from June to November, the average sea temperature exceeds . In May and December - the transition months - the average is around .\n\nIn the second half of April, which is the beginning of the summer/holiday season the average sea temperature is . The highest sea temperature is in the middle-3rd week of August. In late August and early September the temperature drops to , and in the second half of September it drops to . Around mid-October it drops to , and during the last week of October it drops to . By early November the temperature drops to (data of 2010).\n\nWater supply poses a problem on Malta, as the summer is both rainless and the time of greatest water use, and the winter rainfall often falls as heavy showers running off to the sea rather than soaking into the ground. Malta depends on underground reserves of fresh water, drawn through a system of water tunnels called the Ta' Kandja galleries, which average about 97 m below surface and extend like the spokes of a wheel. In the galleries in Malta's porous limestone, fresh water lies in a lens upon brine. More than half the potable water of Malta is produced by desalination, which creates further issues of fossil fuel use and pollution.\n\nMalta has an average of 90 precipitation days a year, and experiences from a few to a dozen rainy days per month (≥ 1 mm), ranging from 0.5 of a day in July to around 15 in December. The average annual precipitation is around 600 mm, ranging from ~0.3 mm in July to ~110 mm in December.\n\nThe annual average relative humidity is high, averaging 75%, ranging from 65% in July (morning: 78% evening: 53%) to 80% in December (morning: 83% evening: 73%).\n\nDespite the relative stasis of the Maltese climate, historical records present some variations. In the capital city of Valletta, meteorological officials of the time recorded a temperature of on 19 February 1895, which remains a record for the city. \n\nRegarding the island as a whole, a temperature of was recorded on 1 February 1962, at Ta' Qali airfield, in the centre of the island, which was accompanied by frozen precipitation (hail), and later in the day covered by snowfall that lasted through the night, though this temperature is not recognised by the Malta Met Office as it was not an official recording station and didn't use worldwide meteorological standard instruments. \n\nSnow is a very rare phenomenon, although the island recorded several snow events since 1850, being the last one in 2014. There was a big snowfall in January 1858 (widespread snowfall), March 1877 (light snow without accumulation), February 1895 (snow squalls without accumulation), January 1905 (flurries without accumulation), March 1949 (snow recorded in the interior of the island), and 31 January 1962, On 31 December 2014 snow was reported at various locations.. Graupel was also recorded during that day. That Winter went on to be one of the coldest and stormiest ever experienced in the Maltese Islands.\n\nThe lowest temperature ever recorded at Luqa International Airport was in January 1981, with , and the highest temperature was recorded in August 1999.\n\nAmong all countries in the world, Malta recorded the 5th highest temperature: (after tropical Malaysia, Puerto Rico, Bangladesh and Philippines) among lowest temperatures ever recorded\n"}
{"id": "39179170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39179170", "title": "Clock Tower Square", "text": "Clock Tower Square\n\nClock Tower Square has a tower with four clock faces located in Thimphu, capital of Bhutan. It is a famously \nknown landmark in Thimphu. There are many shops, hotels and restaurants surrounding the square.\n\nThe clock tower square is located below \"Norzin Lam\", Thimphu above the national football stadium in the heart of the capital.\n\nThe Clock-tower has a typical Bhutanese architectural outlook with rich Bhutanese carvings and paintings. There are traditional hand crafted dragon with golden painting on all the four faces of the tower which symbolizes the county as an independent dragon kingdom. The tower has beautiful paintings and carvings of flowers which add more magnificence to the tower. The shops, restaurants and hotels in the clock tower square have a blend of fine traditional and modern architectural Bhutanese design with multi-coloured wood frontages, small arched windows, and sloping roofs. The buildings around the square are all small three storied structures.\n\nWater fountains and traditional Bhutanese Mani Lhalhor (prayer wheels) make the place an ideal location to catch up with Thimphu. Prayer wheels are seen almost everywhere around the country which is a Bhutanese way of life and belief that turning them brings good luck. The square often serves as a platform for various events and activities such as fund-raising events, movie award ceremony, trade fairs, live musical shows and many more. There is also a small play ground opposite to the tower where kids can play. The square has even played host to the Indo-Bhutan friendship car rally.\n"}
{"id": "33469706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33469706", "title": "Daylight saving time in Morocco", "text": "Daylight saving time in Morocco\n\n, daylight saving time (DST) is permanently observed in Morocco, previously time was advanced to at 02:00 on the last Sunday of March, and reverted to UTC (standard time), defined as Greenwich Mean Time locally, at 03:00 on the last Sunday of October. This practise was continued through October 2018, after which clocks were permanently advanced. An exception was made during the month of Ramadan during which clocks reverted to UTC (standard time).\n\nFor 2014, these dates were:\n\n\n\nHowever, on Saturday, 28 September, the government announced a change in policy, which moved the end of DST from the last Sunday in September (which was to be the next day) to the last Sunday in October (27 October). At the same time, they moved the beginning of DST back to the last Sunday in March (next 30 March 2014). As usual, advancements to DST (UTC+1) occurred at 02:00 and returns to standard time (UTC) occurred at 03:00.\n"}
{"id": "2172178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172178", "title": "Ernest Legouve Reef", "text": "Ernest Legouve Reef\n\nLocated in the South Pacific (south of French Tuamotu Islands and east of New Zealand), the Ernest Legouve Reef was reported in 1902 by the unnamed captain of the French ship \"Ernest‑Legouvé\". The reef was about 100 metres long and another reef was sighted near it. The reef was recorded in \"Paris Notice to Mariners\" 164/1122/1902, and the International Hydrographic Bureau stated it on February 9, 1957 giving an estimated position of . It was searched for in 1982 and 1983 but not found, leading to it being considered a phantom island. Nevertheless, it is marked in the 2015 edition of the \"National Geographic Atlas of the World\".\n\nOther nearby historically reported reefs which appear to not exist include Wachusett Reef, Jupiter Reef and Maria Theresa Reef.\n\nIn its location and description, the Ernest Legouve Reef corresponds to the rock that was said to be all that was left of Lincoln Island at the end of Jules Verne's \"The Mysterious Island\".\n"}
{"id": "15724468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15724468", "title": "Ferdinandea (Calabria)", "text": "Ferdinandea (Calabria)\n\nFerdinandea is an area of 3600 hectare in Serre Calabresi (Calabria, southern Italy) included in the territories of Bivongi, Stilo, Brognaturo, Mongiana and Serra San Bruno in the provinces of Reggio Calabria and Vibo Valentia.\n\nFerdinandea is entirely covered by fir and beech woods.\n\nThe name originates from King Ferdinand II of the Two Sicilies, who used the area for hunting after 1832. He later turned it into a metal industry center, building here a foundry, ironworks, residential and administrative buildings and stables.\n\nThe area is part of Ecomuseo delle ferriere e fonderie di Calabria, a museum devoted to the research and restoration of industrial archaeology of the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "21353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21353", "title": "Geography of New Zealand", "text": "Geography of New Zealand\n\nNew Zealand (\"\") is an island country located in the south-western Pacific Ocean, near the centre of the water hemisphere. It is a long and narrow country and comprises around 600 islands. The two main islands by size are the North Island (or \"Te Ika-a-Māui\") and the South Island (or \"Te Waipounamu\"), separated by the Cook Strait; the third-largest island, Stewart Island (or \"Rakiura\"), is located off the tip of the South Island across Foveaux Strait. Significantly smaller islands include Waiheke Island, Chatham Island, Great Barrier Island and more, although many are uninhabited.\n\nNew Zealand's landscape ranges from the fiord-like sounds of the southwest to the sandy beaches of the far north. The South Island is dominated by the Southern Alps while a volcanic plateau covers much of the central North Island. Temperatures rarely fall below 0 °C or rise above 30 °C and conditions vary from wet and cold on the South Island's West Coast to dry and continental a short distance away across the mountains and near subtropical in the northern reaches of the North Island.\n\nNew Zealand's varied landscape has appeared in television shows, such as \"\". An increasing number of feature films have also been filmed there, including the \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy.\n\nThe country is situated about southeast of Australia across the Tasman Sea, its closest neighbours to the north being New Caledonia, Tonga and Fiji. It is the southernmost nation in Oceania. The relative proximity of New Zealand north of Antarctica has made the South Island a gateway for scientific expeditions to the continent.\n\nNew Zealand is located in the South Pacific Ocean at , near the centre of the water hemisphere. It is a long and narrow country, extending along its north-north-east axis with a maximum width of . New Zealand consists of a large number of islands, estimated around 600. The islands give it of coastline and extensive marine resources. New Zealand claims the fifth-largest exclusive economic zone in the world, covering over (1.5 million sq mi), more than 15 times its land area.\n\nThe South Island is the largest land mass of New Zealand, and is the 12th-largest island in the world. The island is divided along its length by the Southern Alps. The east side of the island has the Canterbury Plains while the West Coast is famous for its rough coastlines, high rainfall, very high proportion of native bush, and glaciers.\n\nThe North Island is the second-largest island, and the 14th-largest in the world. It is separated from the South Island by the Cook Strait, with the shortest distance being . The North Island is less mountainous than the South Island, although a series of narrow mountain ranges form a roughly north-east belt that rises up to . Much of the surviving forest is located in this belt, and in other mountain areas and rolling hills. The North Island has many isolated volcanic peaks and New Zealand's largest lake. \n\nBesides the North and South Islands, the five largest inhabited islands are Stewart Island, Chatham Island, Great Barrier Island (in the Hauraki Gulf), d'Urville Island (in the Marlborough Sounds) and Waiheke Island (about from central Auckland).\n\nThe phrase \"From Cape Reinga to The Bluff\" is frequently used within New Zealand to refer to the extent of the whole country. Cape Reinga is northwesternmost tip of the Aupouri Peninsula, at the northern end of the North Island. Bluff is Invercargill's port, located near the southern tip of the South Island, below the 46th parallel south. However, the extreme points of New Zealand are actually located in several outlying islands.\n\nThe points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location in New Zealand are as follows:\n\n\nNew Zealand is largely antipodal to the Iberian Peninsula of Europe. The northern half of the South Island corresponds to Galicia and northern Portugal. Most of the North Island corresponds to central and southern Spain, from Valladolid (opposite the southern point of the North Island, Cape Palliser), through Madrid and Toledo to Cordoba (directly antipodal to Hamilton), Lorca (opposite East Cape), Málaga (Cape Colville), and Gibraltar. Parts of the Northland Peninsula oppose Morocco, with Whangarei nearly coincident with Tangiers. The antipodes of the Chatham Islands lie in France, just north of the city of Montpellier. The Antipodes Islands were named for their supposed antipodal position to Britain; although they are the closest land to the true antipodes of Britain, their location 49°41′S 178°48′E is directly antipodal to a point a few kilometres to the east of Cherbourg on the north coast of France.\n\nIn Europe the term \"Antipodes\" is often used to refer to New Zealand and Australia (and sometimes other South Pacific areas), and \"Antipodeans\" to their inhabitants.\n\nNew Zealand is part of Zealandia, a microcontinent nearly half the size of Australia that gradually submerged after breaking away from the Gondwanan supercontinent. Zealandia extends a significant distance east into the Pacific Ocean and south towards Antarctica. It also extends towards Australia in the north-west. This submerged continent is dotted with topographic highs that sometimes form islands. Some of these, such as the main islands (North and South), Stewart Island, New Caledonia, and the Chatham Islands, are settled. Other smaller islands are eco-sanctuaries with carefully controlled access.\nThe New Zealand landmass has been uplifted due to transpressional tectonics between the Indo-Australian Plate and Pacific plates (these two plates are grinding together with one riding up and over the other). This is the cause of New Zealand's numerous earthquakes and volcanoes.\n\nTo the east of the North Island the Pacific Plate is forced under the Indo-Australian Plate. The North Island of New Zealand has widespread back-arc volcanism as a result of this subduction. There are many large volcanoes with relatively frequent eruptions. There are also several very large calderas, with the most obvious forming Lake Taupo. Taupo has a history of incredibly powerful eruptions, with the Oruanui eruption approx. 26,500 years ago ejecting of material and causing the downward collapse of several hundred square kilometers to form the lake. The last eruption occurred and ejected at least 100 cubic kilometers of material, and has been correlated with red skies seen at the time in Rome and China.The associated geothermal energy from this volcanic area is used in numerous hydrothermal power plants. Some volcanic places are also famous tourist destinations, such as the Rotorua geysers.\n\nThe subduction direction is reversed through the South Island, with the Indo-Australian Plate forced under the Pacific Plate. The transition between these two different styles of continental collision occurs through the top of the South Island. This area has significant uplift and many active faults; large earthquakes are frequent occurrences here. The most powerful in recent history, the M8.3 Wairarapa earthquake, occurred in 1855. This earthquake generated more than of vertical uplift in places, and caused a localised tsunami. Fortunately casualties were low due to the sparse settlement of the region. In 2013, the area was rattled by the M6.5 Seddon earthquake, but this caused little damage and no injuries. New Zealand's capital city, Wellington, is situated in the centre of this region.\n\nThe subduction of the Indo-Australian Plate drives rapid uplift in the centre of the South Island (approx. per year). This uplift forms the Southern Alps. These roughly divide the island, with a narrow wet strip to the west and wide and dry plains to the east. The resulting orographic rainfall enables the hydroelectric generation of most of the country's electricity. A significant amount of the movement between the two plates is accommodated by lateral sliding of the Indo-Australian Plate north relative to the Pacific Plate. The plate boundary forms the nearly long Alpine Fault. This fault has an estimated rupture reoccurrence interval of ~330 years, and last ruptured in 1717 along of its length. It passes directly under many settlements on the West Coast of the South Island and shaking from a rupture would likely affect many cities and towns throughout the country.\n\nThe rapid uplift and high erosion rates within the Southern Alps combine to expose high grade greenschist to amphibolite facies rocks, including the gemstone pounamu (jade). Geologists visiting the West Coast can easily access high-grade metamorphic rocks and mylonites associated with the Alpine Fault, and in certain places can stand astride the fault trace of an active plate boundary.\n\nTo the south of New Zealand the Indo-Australian Plate is subducting under the Pacific Plate, and this is beginning to result in back-arc volcanism. The youngest (geologically speaking) volcanism in the South Island occurred in this region, forming the Solander Islands (<2 million years old). This region is dominated by the rugged and relatively untouched Fiordland, an area of flooded glacially carved valleys with little human settlement.\n\nThe South Island is much more mountainous than the North, but shows fewer manifestations of recent volcanic activity. There are 18 peaks of more than in the Southern Alps, which stretch for down the South Island. The closest mountains surpassing it in elevation are found not in Australia, but in New Guinea and Antarctica. As well as the towering peaks, the Southern Alps include huge glaciers such as Franz Josef and Fox. The country's highest mountain is Aoraki / Mount Cook; its height since 2014 is listed as (down from before December 1991, due to a rockslide and subsequent erosion). The second highest peak is Mount Tasman, with a height of .\n\nThe North Island Volcanic Plateau covers much of central North Island with volcanoes, lava plateaus, and crater lakes. The three highest volcanoes are Mount Ruapehu (), Mount Taranaki () and Mount Ngauruhoe (). Ruapehu's major eruptions have historically been about 50 years apart, in 1895, 1945 and 1995–1996. The 1886 eruption of Mount Tarawera, located near Rotorua, was New Zealand's largest and deadliest eruption in the last 200 years, killing over 100 people. Another long chain of mountains runs through the North Island, from Wellington to East Cape. The ranges include Tararua and Kaimanawa.\n\nThe lower mountain slopes are covered in native forest. Above this are shrubs, and then tussock grasses. Alpine tundra consists of cushion plants and herbfields; many of these plants have white and yellow flowers.\n\nNew Zealand's cave systems have three main origins, the chemical weathering of limestone by water (karst), lava caves and erosion by waves (sea caves). Therefore the distribution of limestone, marble (metamorphosed limestone) and volcanoes defines the location of caves in inland New Zealand. The main regions of karst topography are the Waitomo District and Takaka Hill in the Tasman district. Other notable locations are on the West Coast (Punakaiki), the Hawkes Bay and Fiordland. \n\nLava caves (lava tubes) usually form in pahoehoe lava flows, which are less viscus and typical formed from basalt. When an eruption occurs the outer layer of the lava flow hardens, while the interior remain liquid. The liquid lava flows out as it is insulated by the hardened crust above. These caves are found where there are relatively recent basaltic volcanoes in New Zealand, such as the Auckland Volcanic Field particularly on Rangitoto, Mt Eden and Matukutururu.\n\nThe distribution of sea caves is more sporadic, with their location and orientation being controlled by weakness in the underlying rock. As cave systems take many thousands of years to develop they can now be isolated from the water that formed them, whether through change in sea level or groundwater flow. If as a cave grows it breaks through to the surface somewhere else it becomes a natural arch, like those near Karamea (Oparara Arches).\n\nThe proportion of New Zealand's area (excluding estuaries) covered by rivers, lakes and ponds, based on figures from the New Zealand Land Cover Database, is (357526 + 81936) / (26821559 – 92499–26033 – 19216) = 1.6%. If estuarine open water, mangroves, and herbaceous saline vegetation are included, the figure is 2.2%.\nThe mountainous areas of the North Island are cut by many rivers, many of which are swift and unnavigable. The east of the South Island is marked by wide, braided rivers such as the Wairau, Waimakariri and Rangitātā; formed from glaciers, they fan out into many strands on gravel plains. The Waikato, flowing through the North Island, is the New Zealand's longest river, with a length of . New Zealand's rivers feature hundreds of waterfalls; the most visited set of waterfalls are the Huka Falls that drain Lake Taupo.\n\nLake Taupo, located near the centre of the North Island, is the largest lake by surface area in the country. It lies in a caldera created by the Oruanui eruption, the largest eruption in the world in the past 70,000 years. There are 3,820 lakes with a surface area larger than one hectare. Many lakes have been used as reservoirs for hydroelectric projects.\n\nThe main factors that influence New Zealand's climate are the temperate latitude, with prevailing westerly winds; the oceanic environment; and the mountains, especially the Southern Alps. The climate is mostly temperate with mean temperatures ranging from in the South Island to in the North Island. January and February are the warmest months, July the coldest. New Zealand does not have a large temperature range, apart from central Otago, but the weather can change rapidly and unexpectedly. Near subtropical conditions are experienced in Northland.\n\nMost settled, lowland areas of the country have between 600 and 1600 mm of rainfall, with the most rain along the west coast of the South Island and the least on the east coast of the South Island and interior basins, predominantly on the Canterbury Plains and the Central Otago Basin (about 350 mm ). Christchurch is the driest city, receiving about of rain per year, while Hamilton is the wettest, receiving more than twice that amount at 1325 mm PA, followed closely by Auckland. The wettest area by far is the rugged Fiordland region, in the south-west of the South Island, which has between 5000 and 8000 mm of rain per year, with up to 15,000 mm in isolated valleys, amongst the highest recorded rainfalls in the world.\nThe UV index can be very high and extreme in the hottest times of the year in the north of the North Island. This is partly due to the country's relatively little air pollution compared to many other countries and the high sunshine hours.\nNew Zealand has very high sunshine hours with most areas receiving over 2000 hours per year. The sunniest areas are Nelson/Marlborough and the Bay of Plenty with 2400 hours per year.\n\nNew Zealand has no land borders. However, the Ross Dependency, its claim in Antarctica, nominally borders the Australian Antarctic Territory to the west and unclaimed territory to the east. Most other countries do not recognise territorial claims in Antarctica.\n\nNew Zealand proper is subdivided into sixteen regions: seven in the South Island and nine in the North. They have a geographical link with regional boundaries being based largely on drainage basins. Among the regions, eleven are administered by regional authorities (top tier of local government), while five are unitary authorities that combine the functions of regional authorities and those of territorial authorities (second tier). Regional authorities are primarily responsible for environmental resource management, land management, regional transport, and biosecurity and pest management. Territorial authorities administer local roading and reserves, waste management, building consents, the land use and subdivision aspects of resource management, and other local matters.\n\nThe Chatham Islands is not a region, although its council operates as a region under the Resource Management Act. There are a number of outlying islands that are not included within regional boundaries. The Kermadecs and the subantarctic islands are inhabited only by a small number of Department of Conservation staff.\n\nThe South Island contains a little under one-quarter of the population. Over three-quarters of New Zealands population live in the North Island, with one-third of the total population living in the Auckland Region. Auckland is also the fastest growing region, accounting for 46 percent of New Zealand's total population growth. Most Māori live in the North Island (87 percent), although a little under a quarter (24 percent) live in Auckland. New Zealand is a predominantly urban country, with  percent of the population living in an urban area. About  percent of the population live in the 17 main urban areas (population of 30,000 or more) and  percent live in the four largest cities of Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington, and Hamilton.\n\nNew Zealand's peoples have been defined by their immigrant origin, the on going process of adaptation to a new land, being changed and changing those who came before. This process has lead to a distinct distribution of culture across New Zealand. Here language and religion are used as markers for the far richer concept of culture. These metrics unfortunately exclude the political rural-urban divide and also the full effects of the Christchurch earthquakes on New Zealand's cultural distribution. \n\nNew Zealand's language varies spatially both within and between ethnic groups. There are many sub dialects of the Māori language—the most pronounced division being between the northern and southern tribes. While migration (typically from north to south) was constant throughout the 16–18th centuries, the south maintained a distinct culture largely due to lack of cultivation possible at that latitude. Māori is still spoken more commonly (3.5 percent of the New Zealand population) in areas with large Māori populations (Gisborne, Bay of Plenty and Northland). English, the dominant language of New Zealand (89.8 percent), is spoken with regional accents relating to the origin of immigrants; for example Scottish and English 19th century immigration in Southland and Canterbury respectively. This has also occurred with more recent immigration, with a wide variety of accents being common in larger cities where immigrant groups have preferentially settled. These immigrant groups change location with time and accents fade over generations. \n\nA wide variety of other languages make up the remaining approximately 6 percent of New Zealanders—with Samoan, Hindi, French and various Chinese dialects being the most common. These minority foreign languages are concentrated in the main cities, particularly Auckland where recent immigration groups have settled.\n\nA relatively small proportion of New Zealand's land is arable (1.76%), and permanent crops cover 0.27% of the land. of the land is irrigated. As the world's largest exporter of sheep, New Zealand's agricultural industry focuses primarily on pastoral farming, particularly dairy and beef, as well as lambs. Dairy, specifically, is their top export. In addition to pastoral farming, fisherman harvest mussels, oysters and salmon, and horticulture farmers grow kiwifruit, as well as peaches, nectarines, etc. New Zealand's distance from world markets and spatial variation in rainfall, elevation and soil quality have defined the geography of its agriculture industry. \n\nAs of 2007, almost 55 percent of New Zealand's total land area was being used for farming, which is standard compared to most developed countries. Three-fourths of it was pastoral land using for raising sheep, beef, deer, etc. The amount of farmland has decreased since 2002.\n\nNew Zealand's isolated location has simultaneously lead to fewer pests and an agriculture industry with a greater susceptibility to introduced diseases and pests. A major concern for New Zealand farmers is the rapidly growing wild rabbit population. Wild rabbits have been an agricultural issue for a while, since their introduction to the country in the 1930s. They cause significant damage to farm lands: eating the grass, crops, and causing soil degradation. Many farmers are worried about their livelihoods and the effects that the rabbits will have on food supply and trade, as their numbers are quickly growing out of control. An illegal rabbit-killing virus called the rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) was released in 1997 by a group of vigilante farmers, and was very effective initially. After twenty years, however, the rabbits became immune to it. To help desperate farmers, a new strain of the virus was released in March 2018, a Korean form of the strain called the K5 virus, or RHDV1-K5. This virus was introduced with the goal of exterminating 40 percent of the rabbit population. The new virus works much faster than the last one, expected to kill rabbits within two to four days of exposure. The virus has become a subject of debate among animal rights activists, due to the inhumane manner in which it kills the rabbits. However, farmers unanimously seem to be very grateful for the release of the virus.\n\nAlmost half of New Zealand's climate change emissions are generated by greenhouse gases, mainly methane and nitrous oxide, which come from farming and agriculture. Organisms that grow inside of grazing animals' stomachs turn New Zealand's grass into methane. The increase of carbon dioxide in the air helps the plants to grow faster, but the long-term effects of climate change threaten farmers with the likelihood of more frequent and severe floods and droughts. Growers of kiwifruit, a major export in the horticulture industry of New Zealand, have experienced difficulties as a result of climate change. The recent warm winters are not providing the adequate cool temperatures needed for the flowering of kiwifruit, and has resulted in a reduction of the yield sizes. The recent droughts are also decreasing apple production by causing sunburns and a lack of water available for irrigation. In contrast, the dairy industry has not been affected, and has actually adjusted well to the effects of climate change.\n\nFlooding is the most regular natural hazard. Few regions have escaped winter floods. Settlements are usually close to hill-country areas which experience much higher rainfall than the lowlands due to the orographic effect. Mountain streams which feed the major rivers rise rapidly and frequently break their banks covering farms with water and silt. Close monitoring, excellent weather forecasting, stopbanks, multiple hydropower dams, river dredging and reafforestation programmes in hill country have ameliorated the worst effects.\n\nNew Zealand experiences around 14,000 earthquakes a year, some in excess of magnitude 7 (M7). Since the 2010, several large (M7, M6.3, M6.4, M6.2) and shallow (all <7 km) earthquakes have occurred immediately beneath Christchurch. These have resulted in 185 deaths, widespread destruction of buildings and significant liquefaction. These earthquakes are releasing distributed stress in the Pacific plate from the ongoing collision with the Indo-Australian plate to the west and north of the city. Volcanic activity is most common on the central North Island Volcanic Plateau. Tsunamis affecting New Zealand are associated with the Pacific Ring of Fire.\n\nDroughts are not regular and occur mainly in Otago and the Canterbury Plains and less frequently over much of the North Island between January and April. Forest fires were rare in New Zealand before the arrival of humans. Fire bans exist in some areas in summer.\n\nNew Zealand's geographic isolation for 80 million years and island biogeography has influenced evolution of the country's species of animals, fungi and plants. Physical isolation has not caused biological isolation, and this has resulted in a dynamic evolutionary ecology with examples of very distinctive plants and animals as well as populations of widespread species. Evergreens such as the giant kauri and southern beech dominate the forests. It also has a diverse range of birds, several of which are flightless such as the kiwi (a national icon), the kakapo, the takahē and the weka, and several species of penguins. Around 30 bird species are currently listed as endangered or critically endangered. Conservationists recognised that threatened bird populations could be saved on offshore islands, where, once predators were exterminated, bird life flourished again.\n\nMany bird species, including the giant moa, became extinct after the arrival of Polynesians, who brought dogs and rats, and Europeans, who introduced additional dog and rat species, as well as cats, pigs, ferrets, and weasels. Native flora and fauna continue to be hard-hit by invasive species. New Zealand conservationists have pioneered several methods to help threatened wildlife recover, including island sanctuaries, pest control, wildlife translocation, fostering, and ecological restoration of islands and other selected areas.\n\nMassive deforestation occurred after humans arrived, with around half the forest cover lost to fire after Polynesian settlement. Much of the remaining forest fell after European settlement, being logged or cleared to make room for pastoral farming, leaving forest occupying only 23% of the land.\n\nPollution, particularly water pollution, is one of New Zealand's most significant environmental issues. Fresh water quality is under pressure from agriculture, hydropower, urban development, pest invasions and climate change, although much of the country's household and industrial waste is now increasingly filtered and sometimes recycled.\n\nSome areas of land, the sea, rivers or lakes are protected by law, so their special plants, animals, landforms and other features are safe from harm. New Zealand has three World Heritage Sites, 13 national parks, 34 marine reserves, and thousands of scenic, historic, recreation and other reserves. The Department of Conservation is responsible for managing 8.5 million hectares of public land (approximately 30% of New Zealand's landmass).\n\nNew Zealand is party to several multilateral environmental agreements. The major agreements are listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57454662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57454662", "title": "Gorchakov Manor", "text": "Gorchakov Manor\n\nIs a 17th century manor or mansion, located in Moscow. Princess Olga Gorchakov resided in the estate in 1852.\nIn the late 19th century, it was the home of Vasily Dashkov, a philanthropist, a collector of art,\nthe director of Rumyantsev Museum since 1868, and the Vice - President of the Commission for the construction of\nthe Cathedral of Christ the Savior. The house was registered to the name of his wife, Elizaveta Dashkova, \nnee Gorchakova.\n"}
{"id": "49458630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49458630", "title": "Governorate of Chiloé", "text": "Governorate of Chiloé\n\nThe Governorate of Chiloé was political and military subdivision of the Spanish Empire that existed, with a 1784–1789 interregnum, from the 1600s to 1826. The Governorate of Chiloé depended on the Captaincy General of Chile until the late 18th century when it was made depend directly on the Viceroyalty of Peru. The administrative change was done simultaneously as the capital of the archipelago was moved from Castro to Ancud in 1768. The last Royal Governor of Chiloé, Antonio de Quintanilla, depended directly on the central government in Madrid.\n\nThe Governorate of Chiloé had its \"de jure\" northern limit a Bueno River in continental Chile. There the governorate limited with the territories of Valdivia. The area \"de facto\" controlled included the Chiloé Archipelago, the seashore forts and settlements north of Chacao Channel plus the Mission of Nahuel Huapi which was nevertheless financed from Valdivia. Historian Gabriel Guarda do however disagree claiming the Mission of Nahuel Huapi was within the jurisdiction of Valdivia. The so-called \"juncos of Osorno\" (Huilliches) attempted in the late 18th century to have their lands, that lied just south of Bueno River, to be removed from the Governorate of Chiloé and incorporated to Valdivia. The reason of this was their bad relation and history of warfare with the settlements of around Chacao Channel.\n\nAll 17th century Royal Governors were named by the Royal Governor of Chile. In the 18th century this system changed and while still named by the Royal Governor of Chile the position were to be ratified by the King of Spain. Later in the 18th century the Viceroy of Peru took over the duties of naming governors but still with the need of ratification by the King of Spain. Formally the office was granted based on merits during all of the 17th century. However, in the early 18th century \"pecuniary service\" begun also to be considered, which meant in practice that the office could be purchased. This practice was abolished in 1750. The office of Governor of Chiloé was commonly used to booster a carrier and then access more desirable positions of power in Central Chile.\n\nThe position of Royal Governor of Chiloé dates to the early 17th century. Before that a succession of corregidores existed including Alonso Benítez and Alonso de Góngora Marmolejo. Antonio Mejía who was sent by Alonso de Ribera to rule Chiloé died in a shipwreck in 1603 while approaching the archipelago.\n\n\nThe \"notables\" of Chiloé, represented by the local cabildo had a conflictive relation with governor Martínez y La Espada. The cabildo made complaints to the authorities in Lima. Between 1784 and 1789 the position of governor was abolished and replaced by an intendant. The sole intendant of this period was Francisco Hurtado del Pino.\n\n"}
{"id": "18918966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918966", "title": "Hadrut (town)", "text": "Hadrut (town)\n\nHadrut ( ) is de facto the administrative center of Hadrut Province, Artsakh and de jure a town in the Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan. The town has been de facto part of the Republic of Artsakh (formerly the \"Nagorno-Karabakh Republic\") since the end of the 1991-94 Nagorno-Karabakh War. According to NKR statistics, the town has a population of 4,100 as of 2015.\n\nFrom 10 September 1939, Hadrut was the capital of the Hadrut rayon within the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic until the abolishment of the Autonomous Oblast on 26 November 1991.\n\nDuring the Nagorno-Karabakh War, the town was occupied by the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army on 2 October 1992.\n\nThe town is home to the \"Mika-Hadrut Winery\" for brandy, vodka and wine.\n\nHadrut is currently twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "22354809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22354809", "title": "Houtman", "text": "Houtman\n\nHoutman or De Houtman is a Dutch surname. Translating as \"(the) woodman\", the origin of the name may be toponymic (\"from the woods\") or occupational (lumberman, carpenter, etc.). Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5323672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323672", "title": "ISO 3166-2:IL", "text": "ISO 3166-2:IL\n\nISO 3166-2:IL is the entry for Israel in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Israel, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 6 districts.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Israel. The second part is one or two letters. The code for Yerushalayim/Al Quds () is assigned based on its English name, Jerusalem.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31660596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31660596", "title": "Iberian cartography, 1400–1600", "text": "Iberian cartography, 1400–1600\n\nCartography throughout the 14th-16th centuries played a significant role in the expansion of the kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula for a multitude of reasons. Primarily, the maps developed during this period served as navigational tools for maritime folk such as explorers, sailors and navigators. Mostly the expansion of the Crown of Aragon (which included the Kingdom of Aragon, Kingdom of Valencia and Kingdom of Majorca, together with the Principality of Catalonia, all its territories with seashore on the Mediterranean Sea. The Crown of Aragon controlled the routes across the Mediterranean Sea from the Kingdom of Jerusalem to Europe, as part of the commercial-trade route known as the Silk Road.\n\nThey were used to make the travel occurring at the time easier by eliminating the unnecessary resources spent when the most efficient route was not taken, and after things such as wind patterns and latitude and longitude began to appear on maps. they made maritime activities such as exploration or conquest less time- and resource-consuming. Maps were also used as a method to plan out landmasses by surveyors in areas that had yet to be explored or did not have many documented statistics. This often was the case in the Americas, where the Iberian empires did not start off with much documented evidence of the landmasses.\nEven still, oftentimes before the availability of maps began to increase, they were used as decorative pieces that were commonly gifted to individuals of very high social status such as kings or popes. Those particular maps frequently had descriptive legends, which usually consisted of drawings being integrated into the actual map. An example of such a map would be the heavily decorated Catalan Atlas, which was produced in 1375. It was used as a gift to the King of France from the King of the Crown of Aragon.\n\nOne other purpose behind maps was propaganda, and in those circumstances they were used to possibly distort or falsify information. The Dutch used a particular map, which was known as the 'Christian knight map' for this purpose during their struggle for independence against Spain. In relation to both Spain and Portugal and their influences on each other in terms of cartography, there was one very significant and fairly obvious example that began to develop in the 15th century. The Portuguese had begun to use scales of latitude on their nautical charts, and once Portuguese cosmographers were being recruited by the Crown of Castile, the same lines began to appear on Spanish charts as well, which eventually developed into what is known as a plane chart.\n\nEvolutionary-wise, the specific measurements used in sea charts began to have a practical impact on world maps beginning in the early 14th century with the inclusion of latitude and longitude. Before hand, cartographic works had been developed through less rational methods than mathematical, such as theology and cosmology, but did include statements of geography and history as well. The beginning of the 14th century also introduced the first atlas, which was created through a series of maps being bound together. The new innovation was not just for show, however, as it had many practical uses due to its improved portability and durability, as well as making it easier for the readers to see. Map-making technique began an alteration through geographical thought. While not every map looked the same, a pattern of features developed through the round shape and typical inclusion of some sort of paradise, and were found on many of the maps of that time.\nTo better understand the map-making process, a step back in time is required, as Claudius Ptolemaeus, better known as Ptolemy, whose eight-volume work entitled \"Geography\" played a large role in the development of cartography once it was translated into Latin in 1406. Ptolemy projected two different types of maps in his text. The first, known as a conic projection, dealt with the latitude parallels consisting of round arcs. The second, known as a pseudoconic projection, consisted of longitude lines being round. Ptolemy's work were heavily influential in Islamic science as well, whose maps were quite similar to the Portolan charts and were partly influential on the Catalan map by Abraham Cresques. In the early 14th century, many of the maps were known as T and O maps, termed because of a circle representing the earth, and within the circle a T-shape to designate the division of different known land masses, which were Europe, Africa, and Asia. This particular style was representative in the well-known Spanish Mappa Mundi which was developed a few centuries beforehand, but was also the first map to actually be printed in 1472. Some of these earlier maps relied heavily on Arabic influence, which is evident in the inclusion of frequent Arabic place names. It is thought that this information could have been gathered through experiences throughout different trade routes. The T-O style of map shows a lack of information regarding the specific details of land masses, but once trade began to flourish, so did the detail in maps. Following the simplicity of the T-O style, maps began to grow into a greater, fantasy-inspired style. Where beforehand, the descriptiveness was minimal, maps now included beautiful drawings of angels and mythical creatures, and oftentimes these maps were used to understand what was considered to be the history. In the 15th century, maps began to develop an idea and representation of distinctive frontiers. Where the previous maps had indulged in fantastical depictions, terminology began to show up much more frequently now, such as names for regions and provinces. The influence of an eastern orientation was one of the first things to change from the typical features of maps with the loss of fantastical creatures being depicted and the inclusion of more detailed landmasses, and it is possible that this was happening because Arabic influence was causing maps orientation to move away from the east and more toward the south.\n\nThe term portolan is derivative from \"portolano\" which translates from Italian into 'pilot's book.' While the orientation of earlier maps was generally in the east, and then it moved southward with the Arabic influence established throughout various trade routes, Portolan charts were oriented to the north to make them easier to read. Portolan charts began to surface just prior to the beginning of the 14th century, but the division of such a practical creation was very significant in the map-making world. They were specifically used to solve specific problems. Each chart was an individual, which is important in comparison to the typical map, which had to be studied often with some sort of text to accompany it. The development of Portolan charts is thought to have begun due to an increasing overseas trade empire. Portolan charts were produced with a combination of chart and compass, allowing sailors to venture out farther onto the open water without as significant of a fear of the hopelessness of getting lost. The manufacturer of the chart would draw a scaled distance along with compass bearings to create angles in order to connect the different areas. Using the chart, the sailor or navigator would set a course from one point to the next, and then use what are known as rhumb lines, which are lines of longitude that all cross the meridian at exactly the same angle, to translate the desired course onto a compass heading.\n\nThe charts included descriptive depictions of coastlines, as well as islands, which enabled seafarers who were accustomed to using such navigational tools as the compass to find their way to said coasts and islands at sea. Included on the chart were a series of thick lines that would be used along with the compass to gather ones bearings. Oftentimes the charts did not include any information on inland structures. There were exceptions, but they were few and usually limited to library copies. Not all maps designating information that would be most beneficial to Iberian empires were being produced in Portugal or Spain, and the same applied to the information utilized by the Portolan charts. Other maps were being produced in Italy and in Germany, both of which were incorporating not just geographical ideas, but religious and academic ideas as well. At the same time, they were using the information that Portuguese seamen had ambitiously acquired. The charts of sailing directions expanded as new sailing routes became more prominent, such as what happened when the Canary Islands were initially discovered, followed by the discovery of other Atlantic islands. As was the case with general map-making, some of the charts began to incorporate decorative depictions in them as well. Navigational instruments like these did not just have a significant impact on the idea of space through the Iberian empires, but they also played a role in mobility as well. With the use of practical tools like the Portolan charts, people were able to more successful navigate and respectively move class-wise based upon said success.\n\nUnlike the maps being created in Portugal, those produced in Spain were heavily guarded with an air of secrecy. The Habsburgs heavily guarded the maps and their advanced level of geographical knowledge because they did not want any of their rivals to be able to obtain them in any way to use against them or to use in order to expand their own empires into lands that Spain was eying. The protection of the maps from falling into undesirable hands was done by the prohibition of any of the maps to appear in print. This prevented anybody who was not an active involved person in the business of Spain's empire to view the maps. With the printing of Spanish maps not just discouraged, but entirely restricted, there are very few that have survived. Cartography was not at all absent from the Spanish empire. Quite the contrary, they were used as an imperial effort to self-represent themselves as an Atlantic or global empire. A majority of this focus was placed upon the Indies and creating a spatial representation of structures that they had yet to examine, but needed to integrate with geographical data that they had already obtained in order to develop maps.\n\nAs mentioned previously, the revolution of Ptolemy’s rational thinking was what created such a powerful period in time when it came to cartography, because it was uniting transparency with yet-to-be-realized political function. Spain utilized this through its American empire. At time, through cartography, Spanish culture has been able to elaborate on more than a two-dimensional idea of space, especially in the instances where climates are shown as a 'portion of the sphere.' That being said, outside of cartography, there is a lack of the idea of space in other aspects of the culture.\nWith landmass structures, opposed to the original ocean-focus, becoming more popular on maps, two things began to change when it came to Spanish cartography. First of all, space was being considered in a different light, and secondly, the way maps were drawn began to change as well. Many of these changes were happening in result of the exploration of the New World. Where previously maps had been under close guard, availability began to increase. Not only that, but the significance of cartographic depiction followed a similar trend and geographical connotations were no longer limiting the way maps were developed. In order to figure the best way to establish control of sovereign land, government officials of Spain began to record, in mass detail, about the territorial land of said establishments. They did not do this without significant prompting, but it still occurred. The information obtained to fill the requirements to take record was often taken from merchants who could provide accurate information based upon experience. Utilizing the significant information allowed for the Spanish empire to develop appropriate policies to incorporate into the expanding areas. While the extreme precautions taken to keep Spanish maps hidden might allude to the fact that maps were not a part of the imperial effort that was not the case. Maps were very much a part of the self-representations of Spain, which was able to show itself as an Atlantic empire through the cartographic lens. Through their efforts and ambitions, which were visually recorded on the relatively few Spanish maps that survived, Spain was able to facilitate a persistence of cultural trends. Delving deeper into that, a representation of it can be made through the relationship between Spain and America, which is where a geometric rationalization really began to occur through cartography in terms of space. It was in the late sixteenth century when Spain was able to represent this idea through rationalizing the American Empire, which was beginning to spread a bit too thinly.\n\nAs time progressed into the 16th century, the development of Spanish maps began to increase, primarily those that were depicting the New World. The actual numerical amount of the maps is unknown, but it isn't thought to have been particularly low. The thing was, however, that they only existed in a manuscript form, and still only certain people were able to get their hands on said manuscript. That is still an improvement from how strictly the Spanish were guarding their maps in earlier centuries, but there was still an air of that protectiveness. For the most part, only people who were involved in the exploration or conquest of the New World were able to obtain the maps. There were a few exceptions to that particular rule that included people who were well-versed in Latin, educational publications for the learned, or being produced for those who were not within the boundaries of the Iberian land. Average readers who wanted to look at such a map would either have to gain access to a black market version or find a woodcut production.\n\nCartography played a large role in the establishment of the expansive Portuguese trade route, and similarly, the trade route played its role in Portuguese cartography. Maps included certain knowledge obtained solely through the connections Portugal had made through their trade routes in Africa and the East, although many of the maps unfortunately did not survive. Within the first fleets that were sent into the East by Portugal of which there were hopes to develop an economic and trade relationship between the two empires, the leaders of the expedition specifically hired pilots who would be able to gather accurate information in a geographical and navigational sense about the Indian Ocean. There was a map smuggled into Italy in 1502 of Portuguese origin that was documented evidence that the before mentioned pilots were able to gather accurate information, and with that, they created a picture of eastern Africa and western India that was both detailed and valid. As previously mentioned, not only did cartography have a cooperative relationship with the establishment of commerce, but the same applied in a reverse relationship as well. The early expeditions created the well-known Cantino map, but they also were cause of the gathering of information dealing with trade within the Indian Ocean region, which was important in the establishment of Portugal's expansive trade routes. \n\nIt is important to note that not all of the information on charts and maps were limited to the seas and oceans, or even the coastlines for that matter. That was primarily the case, but there were exceptions. There were copies of maps that did include information about land areas past the coast, though they were usually reserved for library use. An example of a map that did include land information, as well as trade information that surpassed what was typically on a map, was the Catalan Atlas, which was dated 1375. When the Portuguese explored coasts, for example the coast of West Africa, cartographers and navigators would carefully record progress. They were sure to include the names of the places they encountered, as well as doing their best to draw the coast. Unlike Spain, however, despite the fact that there was supposedly a policy of secrecy attached to these records, it was quite often that as soon as data from the voyages was obtained, it was almost instantly recorded for public use and knowledge. Specifically, cartographers began to include actual definition in the territorial land. Cities, rivers, and mountain ranges all began to show up on some maps, whereas others still just included the bare minimum of the outline of the coast. Building from that, maps began to take on an ornamental value. No longer were the purposes just restrained to the seeking of political and economic knowledge, but they became decorative. Building upon the evolution of cartography, the Portuguese went from simply incorporating the waters they traveled to incorporating land masses such as cities, mountains, and rivers. The Portuguese expanded map-making even further by the introduction of the representation of wind systems in the making of their maps.\n\nOnce they began to correctly understand the wind systems in both the Indian and Atlantic Oceans, they were able to use that knowledge in order to expand their global trade routes even further, which in turn established an even further spread out empire. While the Portuguese were very innovative in their map-making, they still relied heavily on the cartographical knowledge of others, such as the Arabs, Japanese, and Chinese, when it came down to the actual observing and mapping of the global world. They did obtain their own information, but the maps were visibly a mixture of those observations, as well as other information that they had taken from other experts on cartography. The knowledge and the methods of obtaining information used by Portuguese cartographers drew upon the skill and knowledge of Muslim navigators. That being said, they still would conduct their own evaluations by writing down details they obtained when at port in other areas. The same applied to how they obtained some of their information of the land masses that were beginning to show up more and more in maps, opposed to the former method of just applying information regarding to the seas and oceans.\n\nAs time progressed into the late sixteenth century, Portugal’s ocean-based trade routes began to become more widely known. While their maps were not nearly as heavily guarded as those under the Hapsburg rule in Spain, they were still kept within Portugal. That began to change when those maps had started to appear abroad. Not only that, but Portuguese navigators began to take positions in other countries, which furthered the spread of the Portuguese Empire in other nations. The Portuguese also attempted to utilize cartography in order to integrate the indigenous people under colonial rule. Displacement of these indigenous populations did occur in under a cartographic lens, but despite that, a representation of imperial space was established.\n\n"}
{"id": "20646720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646720", "title": "Index of Saint Pierre and Miquelon-related articles", "text": "Index of Saint Pierre and Miquelon-related articles\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of topics related to the French territorial collectivity of Saint Pierre and Miquelon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "784889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=784889", "title": "Indian reservation", "text": "Indian reservation\n\nAn Indian reservation is a legal designation for an area of land managed by a federally recognized Native American tribe under the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs rather than the state governments of the United States in which they are physically located. Each of the 326 Indian reservations in the United States is associated with a particular Native American nation. Not all of the country's 567 recognized tribes have a reservation—some tribes have more than one reservation, while some share reservations. In addition, because of past land allotments, leading to some sales to non–Native Americans, some reservations are severely fragmented, with each piece of tribal, individual, and privately held land being a separate enclave. This jumble of private and public real estate creates significant administrative, political, and legal difficulties.\n\nThe collective geographical area of all reservations is , approximately the size of Idaho. While most reservations are small compared to U.S. states, there are 12 Indian reservations larger than the state of Rhode Island. The largest reservation, the Navajo Nation Reservation, is similar in size to West Virginia. Reservations are unevenly distributed throughout the country; the majority are west of the Mississippi River and occupy lands that were first reserved by treaty or \"granted\" from the public domain.\n\nBecause tribes possess the concept of tribal sovereignty, even though it is limited, laws on tribal lands vary from those of the surrounding area. These laws can permit legal casinos on reservations, for example, which attract tourists. The tribal council, not the local government or the United States federal government, often has jurisdiction over reservations. Different reservations have different systems of government, which may or may not replicate the forms of government found outside the reservation. Most Native American reservations were established by the federal government; a limited number, mainly in the East, owe their origin to state recognition.\n\nThe name \"reservation\" comes from the conception of the Native American tribes as independent sovereigns at the time the U.S. Constitution was ratified. Thus, the early peace treaties (often signed under duress) in which Native American tribes surrendered large portions of land to the U.S. also designated parcels which the tribes, as sovereigns, \"reserved\" to themselves, and those parcels came to be called \"reservations\". The term remained in use even after the federal government began to forcibly relocate tribes to parcels of land to which they had no historical connection.\n\nToday a majority of Native Americans and Alaska Natives live somewhere other than the reservations, often in larger western cities such as Phoenix and Los Angeles. In 2012, there were over 2.5 million Native Americans with about 1 million living on reservations.\n\nFrom the beginning of the European colonization of the Americas, Europeans often removed native peoples from lands they wished to occupy. The means varied, including treaties made under considerable duress, forceful ejection, and violence, and in a few cases voluntary moves based on mutual agreement. The removal caused many problems such as tribes losing means of livelihood by being subjected to a defined area, farmers having inadmissible land for agriculture, and hostility between tribes.\n\nThe first reservation was established in southern New Jersey on August 29, 1758. It was called Brotherton Indian Reservation and also \"Edgepillock\" or \"Edgepelick\" . The area was 3284 acres . Today it is called Indian Mills in Shamong Township .\n\nIn 1764 the \"Plan for the Future Management of Indian Affairs\" was proposed by the Board of Trade. Although never adopted formally, the plan established the imperial government's expectation that land would only be bought by colonial governments, not individuals, and that land would only be purchased at public meetings. Additionally, this plan dictated that the Indians would be properly consulted when ascertaining and defining the boundaries of colonial settlement.\n\nThe private contracts that once characterized the sale of Indian land to various individuals and groups—from farmers to towns—were replaced by treaties between sovereigns. This protocol was adopted by the United States Government after the American Revolution.\n\nOn March 11, 1824, John C. Calhoun founded the Office of Indian Affairs (now the Bureau of Indian Affairs) as a division of the United States Department of War (now the United States Department of Defense), to solve the land problem with 38 treaties with American Indian tribes.\n\nThe document “Indian Treaties, and Laws and Regulations Relating to Indian Affairs”’ published in 1825 in Washington City, America was signed by president Andrew Jackson. He states that “we have placed the land reserves in a better state for the benefit of society” with approval of Indigenous reservations prior to 1850.The letter is signed by Isaac Shelby and the American President and discusses several regulations regarding Indigenous people of America and the approval of Indigenous segregation and the reservation system.\n\nPresident Martin Van Buren writes a Treaty with the Saginaw Tribe of Chippewas in 1837 to build a light house. The President of the United States of America was directly involved in the creation of new Treaties regarding Indian Reservations before 1850. He says Indigenous Reservations are “all their reserves of land in the state of Michigan, on the principle of said reserves being sold at the public land offices for their benefit and the actual proceeds being paid to them.” The agreement is for the Indigenous Tribe to sell their land, based on a Reservation to build a “lighthouse.” President, Martin Van Buren wants to buy Indigenous Reservation Land to build infrastructure.\n\nA Treaty signed by John Forsyth, the Secretary of State on behalf of, President Martin Van Buren of the United States of America also dictates where Indigenous peoples must live in terms of the reservation system in America between the Oneida People in 1838. This Treaty allows the Indigenous peoples five years on a specific reserve “the west shores of Saganaw bay.” The creation of reservations for Indigenous people of America could be as little as a five year approval before 1850. Article two of the Treaty claims “the reserves on the river Angrais and at Rifle river, of which said Indians are to have the usufruct and occupancy for five years.” Indigenous people had restraints pushed on them by the five year allowance. \n\nScholarly author Buck Woodard uses executive papers from Governor William H. Cabell in his article, “Indian Land sales and allotment in Antebellum Virginia” to discuss Indigenous reservations in America before 1705 specifically in Virginia. He claims “the colonial government again recognized the Nottoway’s land rights by treaty in 1713, at the conclusion of the Tuscaro War.” The Indigenous peoples of America had Land Treaty agreements as early as 1713. \n\nThe American Indigenous Reservation system started with “the Royal Proclamation of 1763, where Great Britain set aside an enormous resource for Indians in the territory of the presently United States.” Another act put forward by America was when “Congress passed the Indian Removal Act in 1830.” A third act pushed through was “the federal government relocated “portions of [the] ‘Five Civilized Tribes’ from the southeastern states in the Non-Intercourse Act of 1834.” The Indigenous Reservation system in the United States of America began in 1763 with the Royal Proclamation set by Great Britain, the “Indian Removal Act of 1830” and the “Non-Intercourse act of 1834” which all came into play in the forceful removal of Indigenous peoples into specific land Reservations. \n\nScholarly author James Oberly discusses the “The Treaty of 1831 between the Menominee Nation and the United States” in his article, “Decision on Duck Creek: Two Green Bay Reservations and Their Boundaries, 1816-1996.” Another Treaty regarding Indigenous Reservations before 1850. There is a conflict between the Menomee Nation and the State of Wisconsin and “the 1831 Menomee Treaty …  ran the boundary between the lands of the Oneida, known in the Treaty as the “New York Indians.” This Treaty from 1831 is the cause of conflicts and is disputed because the land used to be good hunting grounds, but not anymore.\n\nThe Trade and Intercourse Act of 1834 says “In the 1834 Indian Trade and Intercourse Act, the United States defined the boundaries of Indian County.” Also, “For Unrau, Indigenous Country is less on Indigenous homeland and more a place where the U.S. removed Indians from east of the Mississippi River and applied unique laws.” The United States of America applied laws on Indigenous Reservations depending on where they were located like the Mississippi River. This act came too, because “the federal government began to compress Indigenous lands because it needed to send troops to Texas during the Mexican-American War and protect American immigration travelling to Oregon and California.” The Federal Government of America had their own needs and desires for Indigenous Land Reservations. He says, “the reconnaissance of explorers and other American officials understood that Indigenous Country possessed good land, bountiful game, and potential mineral resources.” The American Government claimed Indigenous land for their own benefits with these creations of Indigenous Land Reservations . \n\nStates such as Texas had their own policy when it came to Indian Reservations in America before 1850. Scholarly author, George D. Harmon discusses Texas’ own reservation system which “Prior to 1845, Texas had inaugurated and pursued her own Indian Policy of the U.S.” Texas was one of the States before 1850 that chose to create their own reservation system as seen in Harmon’s article, “The United States Indian Policy in Texas, 1845-1860.”  The State of “Texas had given only a few hundred acres of land in 1840, for the purpose of colonization”. However, “In March, 1847, … [a] special agent [was sent] to Texas to manage the Indian affairs in the State until Congress should take some definite and final action.” The United States of America allowed it’s states to make up their own treaties such as this one in Texas for the purpose of colonization. \n\nThe passage of the Indian Removal Act of 1830 marked the systematization of a U.S. federal government policy of forcibly moving Native populations away from European-populated areas.\n\nOne example was the Five Civilized Tribes, who were removed from their native lands in the southern United States and moved to modern-day Oklahoma, in a mass migration that came to be known as the Trail of Tears. Some of the lands these tribes were given to inhabit following the removals eventually became Indian reservations.\n\nIn 1851, the United States Congress passed the Indian Appropriations Act which authorized the creation of Indian reservations in modern-day Oklahoma. Relations between settlers and natives had grown increasingly worse as the settlers encroached on territory and natural resources in the West.\n\nIn 1868, President Ulysses S. Grant pursued a \"Peace Policy\" as an attempt to avoid violence. The policy included a reorganization of the Indian Service, with the goal of relocating various tribes from their ancestral homes to parcels of lands established specifically for their inhabitation. The policy called for the replacement of government officials by religious men, nominated by churches, to oversee the Indian agencies on reservations in order to teach Christianity to the native tribes. The Quakers were especially active in this policy on reservations.\n\nThe policy was controversial from the start. Reservations were generally established by executive order. In many cases, white settlers objected to the size of land parcels, which were subsequently reduced. A report submitted to Congress in 1868 found widespread corruption among the federal Native American agencies and generally poor conditions among the relocated tribes.\n\nMany tribes ignored the relocation orders at first and were forced onto their limited land parcels. Enforcement of the policy required the United States Army to restrict the movements of various tribes. The pursuit of tribes in order to force them back onto reservations led to a number wars with Native Americans which included some massacres. The most well-known conflict was the Sioux War on the northern Great Plains, between 1876 and 1881, which included the Battle of Little Bighorn. Other famous wars in this regard included the Nez Perce War.\n\nBy the late 1870s, the policy established by President Grant was regarded as a failure, primarily because it had resulted in some of the bloodiest wars between Native Americans and the United States. By 1877, President Rutherford B. Hayes began phasing out the policy, and by 1882 all religious organizations had relinquished their authority to the federal Indian agency.\n\nIn 1887, Congress undertook a significant change in reservation policy by the passage of the Dawes Act, or General Allotment (Severalty) Act. The act ended the general policy of granting land parcels to tribes as-a-whole by granting small parcels of land to individual tribe members. In some cases, for example, the Umatilla Indian Reservation, after the individual parcels were granted out of reservation land, the reservation area was reduced by giving the \"excess land\" to white settlers. The individual allotment policy continued until 1934 when it was terminated by the Indian Reorganization Act.\n\nThe Indian Reorganization Act of 1934, also known as the \"Howard-Wheeler Act\", was sometimes called the \"Indian New Deal\" and was initiated by John Collier. It laid out new rights for Native Americans, reversed some of the earlier privatization of their common holdings, and encouraged tribal sovereignty and land management by tribes. The act slowed the assignment of tribal lands to individual members and reduced the assignment of \"extra\" holdings to nonmembers.\n\nFor the following 20 years, the U.S. government invested in infrastructure, health care, and education on the reservations. Likewise, over two million acres (8,000 km²) of land were returned to various tribes. Within a decade of Collier's retirement the government's position began to swing in the opposite direction. The new Indian Commissioners Myers and Emmons introduced the idea of the \"withdrawal program\" or \"termination\", which sought to end the government's responsibility and involvement with Indians and to force their assimilation.\n\nThe Indians would lose their lands but were to be compensated, although many were not. Even though discontent and social rejection killed the idea before it was fully implemented, five tribes were terminated—the Coushatta, Ute, Paiute, Menominee and Klamath—and 114 groups in California lost their federal recognition as tribes. Many individuals were also relocated to cities, but one-third returned to their tribal reservations in the decades that followed.\n\nWith the establishment of reservations, tribal territories diminished to a fraction of original areas and indigenous customary practices of land tenure sustained only for a time, and not in every instance. Instead, the federal government established regulations that subordinated tribes to the authority, first, of the military, and then of the Bureau (Office) of Indian Affairs. Under federal law, the government patented reservations to tribes, which became legal entities that at later times have operated in a corporate manner. Tribal tenure identifies jurisdiction over land-use planning and zoning, negotiating (with the close participation of the Bureau of Indian Affairs) leases for timber harvesting and mining.\n\nTribes generally have authority over other forms of economic development such as ranching, agriculture, tourism, and casinos. Tribes hire both members, other Indians and non-Indians in varying capacities; they may run tribal stores, gas stations, and develop museums (e.g., there is a gas station and general store at Fort Hall Indian Reservation, Idaho, and a museum at Foxwoods, on the Mashantucket Pequot Indian Reservation in Connecticut).\n\nTribal members may utilize a number of resources held in tribal tenures such as grazing range and some cultivable lands. They may also construct homes on tribally held lands. As such, members are tenants-in-common, which may be likened to communal tenure. Even if some of this pattern emanates from pre-reservation tribal custom, generally the tribe has the authority to modify tenant in-common practices.\nWith the General Allotment Act (Dawes), 1887, the government sought to individualize tribal lands by authorizing allotments held in individual tenure. Generally, the allocation process led to grouping family holdings and, in some cases, this sustained pre-reservation clan or other patterns. There had been a few allotment programs ahead of the Dawes Act. However, the vast fragmentation of reservations occurred from the enactment of this act up to 1934, when the Indian Reorganization Act was passed. However, Congress authorized some allotment programs in the ensuing years, such as on the Palm Springs/Agua Caliente Indian Reservation in California.\n\nAllotment set in motion a number of circumstances: \n\nThe demographic factor, coupled with landownership data, led, for example, to litigation between the Devils Lake Sioux and the State of North Dakota, where non-Indians owned more acreage than tribal members even though more Native Americans resided on the reservation than non-Indians. The court decision turned, in part, on the perception of \"Indian character\", contending that the tribe did not have jurisdiction over the alienated allotments. In a number of instances—e.g., the Yakama Indian Reservation—tribes have identified \"open\" and \"closed\" areas within reservations. One finds the majority of non-Indian landownership and residence in the open areas and, contrariwise, closed areas represent exclusive tribal residence and related conditions.\nIndian Country today consists of tripartite government—i. e., federal, state and/or local, and tribal. Where state and local governments may exert some, but limited, law-and-order authority, tribal sovereignty is diminished. This situation prevails in connection with Indian gaming because federal legislation makes the state a party to any contractual or statutory agreement.\n\nFinally, other-occupancy on reservations may be by virtue of tribal or individual tenure. There are many churches on reservations; most would occupy tribal land by consent of the federal government or the tribe. BIA agency offices, hospitals, schools, and other facilities usually occupy residual federal parcels within reservations. Many reservations include one or more sections (about 640 acres) of school lands, but those lands typically remain part of the reservation (e.g., Enabling Act of 1910 at Section 20). As a general practice, such lands may sit idle or be grazed by tribal ranchers.\n\nWhen the Europeans discovered the \"New World\" in the fifteenth century, the land that was new to them had been home to Native Peoples for thousands of years. The American colonial government determined a precedent of establishing the land sovereignty of North America through treaties between countries. This precedent was upheld by the United States government. As a result, most Native American land was \"purchased\" by the United States government, a portion of which was designated to remain under Native sovereignty. The United States government and Native Peoples do not always agree on how land should be governed, which has resulted in a series of disputes over sovereignty.\n\nThe Federal Government and The Lakota Sioux tribe members have been involved in sorting out a legal claim for the Black Hills since signing the 1868 Fort Laramie Treaty, which created what is known today as the Great Sioux Nation covering the Black Hills and nearly half of western South Dakota. This treaty was acknowledged and respected until 1874, when General George Custer discovered gold, sending a wave of settlers into the area and leading to the realization of the value of the land from United States President Grant. President Grant used tactical military force to remove the Sioux from the land and assisted in the development of the Congressional appropriations bill for Indian Services in 1876, a \"starve or sell\" treaty signed by only 10% of the 75% tribal men required based on specifications from the Fort Laramie Treaty that relinquished the Sioux's rights to the Black Hills. Following this treaty, the Agreement of 1877 was passed by Congress to remove the Sioux from the Black Hills, stating that the land was purchased from the Sioux despite the insufficient number of signatures, the lack of transaction records, and the tribe's claim that the land was never for sale.\n\nThe Black Hills are sacred to the Sioux as a place central to their spirituality and identity, and contest of ownership of the land has been pressured in the courts by the Sioux Nation since they were allowed legal avenue in 1920. Beginning in 1923, the Sioux made legal claim that their relinquishment from the Black Hills was illegal under the Fifth Amendment, and no amount of money can make up for the loss of their sacred land. This claim went all the way up to the Supreme Court \"United States v. Sioux Nation of Indians\" case in 1979 after being revived by Congress, and the Sioux were awarded over $100 million as they ruled that the seizure of the Black Hills was in fact illegal. The Sioux have continually rejected the money, and since then the award has been accruing interest in trust accounts, and amounts to about $1 billion in 2015.\n\nDuring President Barack Obama's campaign he made indications that the case of the Black Hills was going to be solved with innovate solutions and consultation, but this was questioned when White House Counsel Leonard Garment sent a note to The Ogala people saying, \"The days of treaty making with the American Indians ended in 1871; ...only Congress can rescind or change in any way statutes enacted since 1871.\" The He Sapa Reparations Alliance was established after Obama's inauguration to educate the Sioux people and propose a bill to Congress that would allocate 1.3 million acres of federal land within the Black Hills to the tribe. To this day, the dispute of the Black Hills is ongoing with the trust estimated to be worth nearly $1.3 billion and sources believe principles of restorative justice may be the best solution to addressing this century old dispute.\n\nWhile 1783 Treaty of Paris that ended the American Revolution addressed land sovereignty disputes between the British Crown and the colonies, it neglected to settle hostilities between indigenous people— specifically those who fought on the side of the British, as four of the members of the Haudenosaunee did— and colonists. In October 1784 the newly formed United States government facilitated negotiations with representatives from the Six Nations in Fort Stanwix, New York. The treaty produced in 1784 resulted in Indians giving up their territory within the Ohio River Valley and the U.S. guaranteeing the Haudenosaunee six million acres— about half of what is present day New York— as permanent homelands.\n\nUnenthusiastic about the treaty's conditions, the state of New York secured a series of twenty-six \"leases,\" many of them lasting 999 years on all native territories within its boundaries. Led to believe that they had already lost their land to the New York Genesee Company, the Haudenosaunee agreed to land leasing which was presented by New York Governor George Clinton as a means by which the indigenous could maintain sovereignty over their land. On August 28, 1788, the Oneidas leased five million acres to the state in exchange for $2,000 in cash, $2,000 in clothing, $1,000 in provisions and $600 annual rent. The other two tribes followed with similar arrangements.\n\nThe Holland Land Company gained control over all but ten acres of the native land leased to the state on September 15, 1797. These 397 square miles were subsequently parceled out and subleased to whites, allegedly ending the native title to land. Despite Iroquois protests, federal authorities did virtually nothing to correct the injustice. Certain of losing all of their land, in 1831 most of the Oneidas asked that what was left of their holdings be exchanged for 500,000 acres purchased from the Menominees in Wisconsin. President Andrew Jackson, committed to Indian Removal west of the Mississippi, agreed.\n\nThe Treaty of Buffalo Creek, signed on January 15, 1838, directly ceded 102,069 acres of Seneca land to the Ogden company for $202,000, a sum that was divided evenly between the government— to hold in trust for Indians— and non-Indian individuals who wanted to buy and improve the plots. All that was left of the Cayuga, Oneida, Onondaga and Tuscarora holding was extinguished at a total cost of $400,000 to Ogden.\n\nAfter Indian complaints, a second Treaty of Buffalo was written in 1842 in attempts to mediate tension. Under this treaty the Haudenosaunee were given the right to reside in New York and small areas of reservations were restored by the U.S. government.\n\nThese agreements were largely ineffective in protecting Native American land. By 1889 eighty percent of all Iroquois reservation land in New York was leased by non-Haudenosaunees.\n\nThe modern-day Navajo and Hopi Indian Reservations are located in Northern Arizona, near the Four Corners area. The Hopi reservation is 2,531.773 square miles within Arizona and lies surrounded by the greater Navajo reservation which spans 27,413 square miles and extends slightly into the states of New Mexico and Utah. The Hopi, also known as the Pueblo people, made many spiritually motivated migrations throughout the Southwest before settling in present-day Northern Arizona. The Navajo people also migrated throughout western North America following spiritual commands before settling near the Grand Canyon area. The two tribes peacefully coexisted and even traded and exchanged ideas with each other; However, their way of lives were threatened when the \"New people\", what the Navajo called white settlers, began executing Natives across the continent and claiming their land, as a result of Andrew Jackson's Indian Removal Act. War ensued between the Navajo people, who call themselves the Diné, and new Americans. The end result was the Long Walk in the early 1860s in which the entire tribe was forced to walk roughly 400 miles from Fort Canby (present day Window Rock, Arizona) to Bosque Redondo in New Mexico. This march is similar to the well known Cherokee \"Trail of Tears\" and like it, many tribe did not survive the trek. The roughly 11,000 tribe members were imprisoned here in what the United States government deemed an experimental Indian reservation that failed because it became too expensive, there were too many people to feed, and they were continuously raided by other native tribes. Consequently, in 1868, the Navajo were allowed to return to their homeland after signing the Treaty of Bosque Redondo. The treaty officially established the \"Navajo Indian Reservation\" in Northern Arizona. The term reservation is one which creates territorialities or claims on places. This treaty gave them the right to the land and semi-autonomous governance of it. The Hopi reservation, on the other hand, was created through an executive order by President Arthur in 1882.\n\nA few years after the two reservations were established, the Dawes Allotment Act was passed under which communal tribal land was divvied up and allocated to each household in attempt to enforce European-American farming styles where each family owns and works their own plot of land. This was a further act of enclosure by the US government. Each family received 640 acres or less and the remaining land was deemed \"surplus\" because it was more than the tribes needed. This \"surplus\" land was then made available for purchase by American citizens.\n\nThe land designated to the Navajo and Hopi reservation was originally considered barren and unproductive by white settlers until 1921 when prospectors scoured the land for oil. The mining companies pressured the US government to set up Native American councils on the reservations so that they could agree to contracts, specifically leases, in the name of the tribe.\n\nDuring World War II, uranium was mined from their land as well though the companies and government neglected to inform the people of the dangers of radiation exposure. Some people had even built their houses out of mine waste. The companies also failed to properly dispose of the radioactive waste which did and will continue to pollute the environment, including the natives' water sources. Many years later, these same men who worked the mines died from lung cancer and their families received no form of financial compensation.\n\nIn 1979, the Church Rock uranium mill spill was the largest release of radioactive waste in US history. The spill contaminated the Puerco River with 1,000 tons of solid radioactive waste and 93 million gallons of acidic, radioactive tailings solution which flowed downstream into the Navajo Nation. The Navajos used the water from this river for irrigation and their livestock but were not immediately informed about the contamination and its danger.\n\nAfter the war ended, the American population boomed and energy demands soared. The utility companies needed a new source of power so they began the construction of coal-fired power plants. They placed these power plants in the four corners region. In the 1960s, John Boyden, an attorney working for both Peabody Coal and the Hopi tribe, the nation's largest coal producer, managed to gain rights to the Hopi land, including Black Mesa, a sacred location to both tribes which lay partially within the Joint Use Area of both tribes.\n\nThis case is an example of environmental racism and injustice, per the principles established by the Participants of the First National People of Color Environmental Leadership Summit, because the Navajo and Hopi people, which are communities of color, low income, and political alienation, were disproportionately affected by the proximity and resulting pollution of these power plants which disregard their right to clean air, their land was degraded, and because the related public policies are not based on mutual respect of all people.\n\nThe mining companies wanted more land but the joint ownership of the land made negotiations difficult. At the same time, Hopi and Navajo tribes were squabbling over land rights while Navajo livestock continuously grazed on Hopi land. Boyden took advantage of this situation, presenting it to the House Subcommittee on Indian Affairs claiming that if the government did not step in and do something, a bloody war would ensue between the tribes. Congressmen agreed to pass the Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act of 1974 which forced any Hopi and Navajo people living on the other's land to relocate. This affected 6,000 Navajo people and ultimately benefitted coal companies the most who could now more easily access the disputed land. Instead of using military violence to deal with those who refused to move, the government passed what became known as the Bennett Freeze to encourage the people to leave. The Bennett Freeze banned 1.5 million acres of Navajo land from any type of development, including paving roadways and even roof repair. This was meant to be a temporary incentive to push tribe negotiations but lasted over forty years until 2009 when President Obama lifted the moratorium. Still, the legacy of the Bennett Freeze looms over the region as seen by the nearly third world conditions on the reservation - seventy-five per cent of people do not have access to electricity and housing situations are poor.\n\nMany Native Americans who live on reservations deal with the federal government through two agencies: the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service.\n\nThe standard of living on some reservations is comparable to that in the developing world, with issues of infant mortality, life expectancy, poor nutrition, poverty, and alcohol and drug abuse. The two poorest counties in the United States are Buffalo County, South Dakota, home of the Lower Brule Indian Reservation, and Oglala Lakota County, South Dakota, home of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, according to data compiled by the 2000 census.\n\nIt is a common conception that environmentalism and a connectedness to nature is ingrained in the Native American culture. In recent years, cultural historians have set out to reconstruct this notion as what they claim to be a culturally inaccurate romanticism. Others recognize the differences between the attitudes and perspectives that emerge from a comparison of Western European philosophy and Traditional Ecological Knowledge (TEK) of Indigenous peoples, especially when considering natural resource conflicts and management strategies involving multiple parties.\n\nIn 1979, the Seminole tribe in Florida opened a high-stakes bingo operation on its reservation in Florida. The state attempted to close the operation down but was stopped in the courts. In the 1980s, the case of \"California v. Cabazon Band of Mission Indians\" established the right of reservations to operate other forms of gambling operations. In 1988, Congress passed the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, which recognized the right of Native American tribes to establish gambling and gaming facilities on their reservations as long as the states in which they are located have some form of legalized gambling.\n\nToday, many Native American casinos are used as tourist attractions, including as the basis for hotel and conference facilities, to draw visitors and revenue to reservations. Successful gaming operations on some reservations have greatly increased the economic wealth of some tribes, enabling their investment to improve infrastructure, education and health for their people.\n\nSerious crime on Indian reservations has historically been required (by the 1885 Major Crimes Act, 18 U.S.C. §§1153, 3242, and court decisions) to be investigated by the federal government, usually the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and prosecuted by United States Attorneys of the United States federal judicial district in which the reservation lies.\n\nTribal courts were limited to sentences of one year or less, until on July 29, 2010, the Tribal Law and Order Act was enacted which in some measure reforms the system permitting tribal courts to impose sentences of up to three years provided proceedings are recorded and additional rights are extended to defendants. The Justice Department on January 11, 2010, initiated the Indian Country Law Enforcement Initiative which recognizes problems with law enforcement on Indian reservations and assigns top priority to solving existing problems.\n\nThe Department of Justice recognizes the unique legal relationship that the United States has with federally recognized tribes. As one aspect of this relationship, in much of Indian Country, the Justice Department alone has the authority to seek a conviction that carries an appropriate potential sentence when a serious crime has been committed. Our role as the primary prosecutor of serious crimes makes our responsibility to citizens in Indian Country unique and mandatory. Accordingly, public safety in tribal communities is a top priority for the Department of Justice.\n\nEmphasis was placed on improving prosecution of crimes involving domestic violence and sexual assault.\n\nPassed in 1953, Public Law 280 (PL 280) gave jurisdiction over criminal offenses involving Indians in Indian Country to certain States and allowed other States to assume jurisdiction. Subsequent legislation allowed States to retrocede jurisdiction, which has occurred in some areas. Some PL 280 reservations have experienced jurisdictional confusion, tribal discontent, and litigation, compounded by the lack of data on crime rates and law enforcement response.\n\nAs of 2012, a high incidence of rape continued to impact Native American women.\n\nA survey of death certificates over a four-year period showed that deaths among Indians due to alcohol are about four times as common as in the general US population and are often due to traffic collisions and liver disease with homicide, suicide, and falls also contributing. Deaths due to alcohol among American Indians are more common in men and among Northern Plains Indians. Alaska Natives showed the least incidence of death. Under federal law, alcohol sales are prohibited on Indian reservations unless the tribal councils choose to allow it.\n\nGang violence has become a major social problem. A December 13, 2009, \"The New York Times\" article about growing gang violence on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation estimated that there were 39 gangs with 5,000 members on that reservation alone. As opposed to traditional \"Most Wanted\" lists, Native Americans are often placed on regional Crime Stoppers lists offering rewards for their whereabouts.\n\n\nInternational:\n\n"}
{"id": "25312729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25312729", "title": "Institute for Transportation and Development Policy", "text": "Institute for Transportation and Development Policy\n\nThe Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is a non-governmental non-profit organization that focuses on developing bus rapid transit (BRT) systems, promoting biking, walking, and non-motorized transport, and improving private bus operators margins. Other programs include parking reform, traffic demand management, and global climate and transport policy. According to its mission statement, ITDP is committed to \"promoting sustainable and equitable transportation worldwide.\"\n\nIn addition to its role supporting and consulting local governmental efforts to develop more sustainable transportation, ITDP publishes the magazine \"Sustainable Transport\" annually, produces the BRT Standard and other research, and sits on the committee for the annual Sustainable Transport Award. \n\nITDP was founded in 1985 by Michael Replogle and other sustainable transport advocates in the United States to counteract the spread of costly and environmentally damaging car-centric urban development models, and to promote biking, walking, and public transit in transportation planning. \n\nIn its first ten years, ITDP worked to support and grow local bicycle industries in Haiti, Nicaragua, Mozambique, South Africa, and West Africa. By 1989, ITDP's Bikes Not Bombs campaign had shipped 10,000 second-hand bicycles to support health and education efforts in Nicaragua and used these to establish a bicycle assembly industry in that country. ITDP advocated for the redirection of lending activity by the World Bank and other multi-lateral institutions. Where these global institutions had an exclusive focus on road projects, ITDP worked to open up funding for multi-modal transport solutions. ITDP advocated for sustainable transport initiatives in U.S. transportation policy, influencing the 1991 Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA). Responding to ITDP pressure, the Peace Corps put its volunteers on bicycles rather than motorcycles.\n\nIn the early nineties, ITDP helped establish the Transport Sector Task Force, an advisory panel to the US Treasury Department's Multi-lateral Development Bank liaison office, to comment on specific transport projects. In its 1994 study \"Counting on Cars, Counting Out People\" ITDP published a preliminary set of guidelines for reforming the World Bank Transport Sector economic appraisal to make it less biased in favor of motorways. The report's key recommendation that economic impacts on non-motorized road users be included in the appraisal has been incorporated into World Bank practice.\n\nITDP has offices in seven countries, with projects and relationships in over 100 cities worldwide. \n\nIn 2009, former mayor of Bogotá, Colombia Enrique Peñalosa, who was instrumental in the establishment of that city's TransMilenio BRT system, was elected as President of the Board of Directors of ITDP. Walter B. Hook served as the organizations executive director from 1993 to 2014. Heather Thompson is ITDP's interim CEO.\n\nITDP works to encourage safe, modern, and efficient public transportation systems in cities worldwide. ITDP is currently active in a design and/or consulting capacity in the BRT programs of Ahmedabad, India; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; Johannesburg, South Africa (Rea Vaya); Jakarta, Indonesia (TransJakarta); Guangzhou, Lanzhou, and Yichang, China; Mexico City, Mexico, Buenos Aires, Argentina, and more.\n\nIn June 2007, ITDP published the \"Bus Rapid Transit Planning Guide\" along with the United Nations Environment Programme, the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), the Hewlett Foundation, and Viva. The guide draws from the extensive BRT design experience of Latin American transit planners, and aims to disseminate this information in the US and other countries around the world. The guide is currently available in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and Chinese, and is free for download in .pdf format from the ITDP website.\n\nIn addition, ITDP developed the BRT Standard, a design guide and rating system for Bus Rapid Transit systems around the world. The Standard establishes a common definition for BRT and identifies BRT best practices, as well as functioning as a scoring system to allow BRT corridors to be evaluated and recognized for their superior design and management aspects. It uses a systematic method of evaluating BRT systems, rating their quality as \"gold, silver, or bronze\". Some systems that had been branded as BRT failed to meet even minimal standards distinguishing BRT from regular urban bus service. A related report on BRT in the US noted that \"Some American systems reviewed had so few essential characteristics that calling them a BRT system at all does a disservice to efforts to gain broader adoption of BRT in the United States...These systems, with relatively few BRT characteristics, have helped confuse the American public about what exactly constitutes BRT.\"\n\nITDP encourages urban design that prioritizes human-powered forms of transportation, such as walking, cycling, and the use of rickshaws. Specifically, ITDP often works with cities to encourage car-free days and bike share programs, create safe streets for pedestrians and cyclists, and provide high-quality bicycles.\n\nIn December 2013 the ITDP published the Bike-Share Planning Guide with the aim \"to bridge the divide between developing and developed countries’ experiences with bike-share.\" The guide is expected to be useful for planning and implementing a bike sharing system regardless of the location, size, or density of the city. The guide is currently available only in English and is free for download in .pdf format from the ITDP website.\n\nITDP works with local governments on the expansion and design of bike lanes, and pedestrian networks throughout the city. In São Paulo, Brazil ITDP assisted in the design of a pilot bicycle path in the neighborhood of Butantã. For the project, ITDP commissioned a report for a 58 kilometer feeder network, which will lead cyclists from adjacent streets and sidewalks to the bicycle path. The path will pass through a high-visibility corridor of the city, and if successfully implemented could be expanded to surrounding neighborhoods and throughout the city.\n\nPast projects have included a redesign of India's traditional cycle rickshaw in collaboration with local experts, reducing the weight of the vehicles by 30% and adding a multi-gear system to increase efficiency; increasing Africa's cycling capacity while bolstering local industry through the establishment of the California Bike Coalition (CBC); and traffic impact and mitigation analysis along with outreach to local interest groups in the pedestrianization of Malioboro Road in Yogyakarta, Indonesia.\n\nITDP works to integrate transport and smart urban design to help remake cities and suburbs into livable spaces that foster economic opportunities, encourage low carbon lifestyles, and attract residents. This is done through designing environments for cycling and walking, fostering the development of pedestrian and transit based real estate development, and creating policies that help turn cultural and physical spaces into economic assets. \n\nIn November 2013 ITDP published \"The TOD Standard\" which elaborates in eight key principles for guiding the implementation of transit-oriented development (TOD). The guide is available for download in .pdf format from the ITDP website.\n\nITDP has initiated advised on a number of projects in cities around the world. ITDP worked with the Mexico City government to provide technical support for the revitalization of Mexico City's Historic Center. ITDP managed the planning and implementation efforts of the revitalization, in addition to promoting street maintenance and cleanliness, supplementation of public security, and the management and controlling of parking and street vending activity in the area. ITDP claims that this reorientation of the Historic Center towards pedestrian and transit oriented development will reverse decades of deterioration, attract tourism and investment, and improve air quality in the notoriously polluted city. Additionally, ITDP participated as part of the team developing Mexico City’s Bicycle Master Plan to design routes that connect to the Historic Center, further integrating multi-modal development of the area.\n\nITDP co-founded the Partnership on Sustainable Low Carbon Transport (SLoCaT) in 2009 and through that helped secure in 2012 a $175 billion 10-year commitment from the world's largest multilateral development banks to support sustainable transport, with annual reporting and monitoring. Working with SLoCaT, ITDP helped mainstream sustainable transport strategies in the United Nations' post-2015 development agenda and in discussions of climate change mitigation strategies in the run-up to the 2015 global climate summit in Paris (COP-15). With the University of California Davis, ITDP in 2014 published, A Global High Shift Scenario: Impacts and Potential for More Public Transport, Walking, and Cycling With Lower Car Use, showing how a shift in transport funding to support alternatives to more driving could save over $100 trillion cumulatively for consumers and governments by 2050 while cutting cumulative climate change pollution from urban transport by 25% and improving equity of access to opportunities for the poor. This is available on the ITDP website. \n\n"}
{"id": "13437735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13437735", "title": "Intendant of Montevideo", "text": "Intendant of Montevideo\n\nThe Intendant of Montevideo is the highest-ranking official in the government of Montevideo. It is elected every five years after the presidential elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "35537185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35537185", "title": "Isla de Convalecencia", "text": "Isla de Convalecencia\n\nIsla de la Convalecencia (), commonly known as simply Isla de Convalecencia (also spelled \"Isla de Convalescencia\" and sometimes erroneously called \"Isla de Convalencia\"), is a small narrow river island in the Pasig River in Manila, the Philippines. It is the only island dividing the Pasig River in Manila located between the districts of San Miguel on the north bank, and Ermita and Paco on the south. The island, best known as the location of the Hospicio de San Jose, is administratively part of San Miguel's Barangay 646, Zone 67. It has a total area of approximately and is connected to both sides of the river by the Ayala Bridge.\n\nAlthough the island is primarily occupied by the orphanage, it also hosts a detachment of the Philippine Coast Guard that patrols the periphery of the Malacañang Palace located just northeast of the island on the Pasig River. It also houses a small community which includes the 412 children, 64 special needs and 120 elderly residents of the Hospicio de San Jose.\n\nThe island's name dates back to the 1830s when the \"Hospicio General\" was built and the island was used principally as a place of recuperation or convalescence for patients of the Hospital of San Juan de Dios. It was earlier called Isla de San Andres (English: Saint Andrew's Island) in honor of Don Andres Blanco Vermudez who owned the island but who later donated it to the San Juan de Dios religious order. Prior to the construction of the orphanage and hospital, the island was the site of two Spanish fortifications known as Bastion de San Rafael and Bastion de San Andres. The Bastion de San Rafael located on the island's eastern end had its main gate facing the river with a large wharf made of \"piedra de China\" (granite stones). This structure has since been replaced by the convent hospital built by the San Juan de Dios religious order. On the island's southern portion facing San Fernando de Dilao (now Paco) and Concepción (now part of Ermita) was the Bastion de San Andres. The Hospicio General was originally housed in an old ruined building called \"Petruz\" on the island's western portion. It had a small chapel, two infirmaries and several wards. It was later renamed to Hospicio de San Jose after Saint Joseph, the orphanage's patron saint.\n\n"}
{"id": "17020605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17020605", "title": "John Cabot", "text": "John Cabot\n\nJohn Cabot (; c. 1450 – c. 1500) was an Italian navigator and explorer, born in the Kingdom of Naples. His 1497 discovery of the coast of North America under the commission of Henry VII of England was the first European exploration of coastal North America since the Norse visits to Vinland in the eleventh century. \nTo mark the celebration of the 500th anniversary of Cabot's expedition, both the Canadian and British governments elected Cape Bonavista, Newfoundland, as representing Cabot's first landing site. However, alternative locations have also been proposed.\n\nCabot is known today as \"Giovanni Caboto\" in Italian, as \"Zuan Chabotto\" in Venetian, and as \"John Cabot\" in English. The non-Italian forms are derived from how his name was recorded in related 15th-century documents. In Venice he signed his names as \"Zuan Chabotto\", \"Zuan\" being a form of \"John\" typical to Venice. He continued to use this form in England, at least among Italians. He was referred to by his Italian banker in London as 'Giovanni Chabbote', in the only known contemporary document to use this version of his first name.\n\nHe was born in Italy, the son of Giulio Caboto and his wife; he had a brother Piero. Gaeta (in the Province of Latina) and Castiglione Chiavarese (in the Province of Genoa) have both been proposed as birthplaces. The main evidence for Gaeta are records of a Caboto family residing there until the mid-15th century, but ceasing to be traceable after 1443.\n\nPedro de Ayala, the Spanish envoy and Cabot's contemporary in London, described him in a letter to the Spanish Crown in 1498 as \"another Genoese like Columbus\". John Cabot's son, Sebastian, said his father originally came from Genoa. In 1476 Cabot was made a citizen of the Republic of Venice, which required a minimum of fifteen years' residency in the city; thus he must have lived in Venice since at least 1461.\n\nHe may have been born slightly earlier than 1450, which is the approximate date most commonly given for his birth. In 1471 Caboto was accepted into the religious confraternity of St John the Evangelist. Since this was one of the city's prestigious confraternities, his acceptance suggests that he was already a respected member of the community.\n\nFollowing his gaining full Venetian citizenship in 1476, Caboto would have been eligible to engage in maritime trade, including the trade to the eastern Mediterranean that was the source of much of Venice's wealth. He presumably entered this trade shortly thereafter. A 1483 document refers to his selling a slave in Crete whom he had acquired while in the territories of the Sultan of Egypt, which then comprised most of what is now Israel, Syria and Lebanon. This is not sufficient to prove Cabot's later assertion that he had visited Mecca, which he said in 1497 to the Milanese ambassador in London. In this Mediterranean trade, he may have acquired better knowledge of the origins of the oriental (West Asian) merchandise he would have been dealing in (such as spices and silks) than most Europeans at that time.\n\n\"Zuan Cabotto\" (i.e. John Cabot) is mentioned in a variety of Venetian records of the 1480s. These indicate that by 1484 he was married to Mattea and already had at least two sons. Cabot's sons are Ludovico, Sebastian, and Sancto. The Venetian sources contain references to Cabot's being involved in house building in the city. He may have relied on this experience when seeking work later in Spain as a civil engineer.\n\nCabot appears to have got into financial trouble in the late 1480s and left Venice as an insolvent debtor by 5 November 1488. He moved to Valencia, Spain, where his creditors attempted to have him arrested by sending a \"lettera di raccomandazione a giustizia\" (\"a letter of recommendation to justice\") to the authorities. While in Valencia, \"John Cabot Montecalunya\" (as he is referred to in local documents) proposed plans for improvements to the harbour. These proposals were rejected, however. Early in 1494 he moved on to Seville, where he proposed, was contracted to build and, for five months, worked on the construction of a stone bridge over the Guadalquivir river. This project was abandoned following a decision of the City Council on 24 December 1494. After this Cabot appears to have sought support in Seville and Lisbon for an Atlantic expedition, before moving to London to seek funding and political support. He probably reached England in mid-1495.\n\nLike other explorers at those times, including Christopher Columbus, Cabot led an expedition on commission, in his case, England. Cabot planned to depart to the west from a northerly latitude where the longitudes are much closer together, and where, as a result, the voyage would be much shorter. He still had an expectation of finding an alternative route to China.\n\nHistorians had thought that, on arrival in England, Cabot went to Bristol, a major maritime centre, to seek financial backers. This was the only English city to have had a history of undertaking exploratory expeditions into the Atlantic. Cabot's royal patent (issued by the Crown in 1496) stated that all expeditions should be undertaken from Bristol, so his primary financial supporters were probably based in that city. In any case, it also stipulated that the commerce resulting from any discoveries must be conducted with England alone.\n\nIn the late 20th century, British historian Alwyn Ruddock claimed to have found documentation that Cabot went first to London, where he received some financial backing from its Italian community. She suggested one patron was Father Giovanni Antonio de Carbonariis, an Augustinian friar who was also the deputy to Adriano Castellesi, the papal tax collector. Ruddock suggested that Carbonariis accompanied Cabot's 1498 expedition. She also suggested that the friar, on good terms with the King, introduced the explorer to King Henry VII. Beyond this, Ruddock claimed that Cabot received a loan from an Italian banking house in London. As Ruddock ordered the destruction of all her research notes on her death in 2005, scholars have had to duplicate her research and rediscover documents. The Cabot Project was formed at the University of Bristol in 2009 to research Cabot and the Bristol expeditions. Francesco Guidi Bruscoli (University of Florence) found some of Ruddock's documentation, confirming that Cabot received money in March 1496 from the Bardi family banking firm of Florence. The bankers located in London provided fifty \"nobles\" (£16 13s. 4d.) to support Cabot's expedition to \"go and find the new land\". This payment from the Florentine merchants would have represented a substantial contribution, although it was not enough to completely finance the expedition.\n\nOn 5 March 1496 Henry VII gave Cabot and his three sons letters patent with the following charge for exploration:\n\nCabot went to Bristol to arrange preparations for his voyage. Bristol was the second-largest seaport in England. From 1480 onward it had supplied several expeditions to look for Hy-Brazil. According to Celtic legend, this island lay somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. There was widespread belief among merchants in the port that Bristol men had discovered the island at an earlier date but then lost track of it. Ruddock had contended in a private 1988 letter to a colleague, Quinn, that she had found evidence in Italian archives that Bristol men had discovered North America pre-1470. As the island was believed to be a source of brazilwood (from which a valuable red dye could be obtained), merchants had economic incentive to find it.\n\nCabot's first voyage was little recorded. A winter 1497/98 letter from John Day (a Bristol merchant) to an addressee believed to be Christopher Columbus refers briefly to it, but writes mostly about the second, 1497 voyage. He notes, \"Since your Lordship wants information relating to the first voyage, here is what happened: he went with one ship, his crew confused him, he was short of supplies and ran into bad weather, and he decided to turn back.\" Since Cabot received his royal patent in March 1496, it is believed that he made his first voyage that summer.\n\nInformation about the 1497 voyage comes mostly from four short letters and an entry in a 1565 chronicle of the city of Bristol. The chronicle entry for 1496/7 says in full:\n\"This year, on St. John the Baptist's Day [24 June 1497], the land of America was found by the Merchants of Bristow in a shippe of Bristowe, called the Mathew; the which said the ship departed from the port of Bristowe, the second day of May, and came home again the 6th of August next following.\" –\nG.E. Weare, \"Cabot's Discovery of North America,\" (London, 1897), p. 116 \n\nWhat is known as the \"John Day letter\" provides considerable information about Cabot's second voyage. It was written during the winter of 1497/8 by Bristol merchant John Day (alias Hugh Say of London) to a man who is probably Christopher Columbus. Day is believed to have been familiar with the key figures of the expedition and thus able to report on it. If the lands Cabot had discovered lay west of the meridian laid down in the Treaty of Tordesillas, or if he intended to sail further west, Columbus would probably have believed that these voyages challenged his monopoly rights for westward exploration.\n\nIn addition to these letters, Alwyn Ruddock claimed to have found another, written on 10 August 1497 by the London-based bankers of Fr. Giovanni Antonio de Carbonariis. This letter has yet to be found. From various written comments made by Ruddock, the letter did not appear to contain a detailed account of the voyage. Ruddock said the letter contained \"new evidence supporting the claim that seamen of Bristol had already discovered land across the ocean before John Cabot's arrival in England.\" She contended that Bristol seamen had reached North America two decades before Cabot's expedition.\n\nThe known sources do not concur on all aspects of the events, and none can be assumed to be entirely reliable. Cabot was described as having one \"little ship\", of 50 tons burden, called the \"Matthew of Bristol\" (according to the 1565 chronicle). It was said to be laden with sufficient supplies for \"seven or eight months\". The ship departed in May with a crew of 18 to 20 men. They included an unnamed Burgundian (modern- day Netherlands) and a Genoese barber, who presumably accompanied the expedition as the ship's surgeon.\n\nIt is likely that two ranking Bristol merchants were part of the expedition. One was probably William Weston, who had not been identified as part of Cabot's expedition before the find of a new document in the late 20th century. His participation was confirmed by a document found in the early 21st century noting his reward from the King in January 1498 after the ship returned. More importantly, in 2009 historian Evan Jones confirmed that Weston had undertaken an independent voyage to the New Found Land in 1499, probably under Cabot's patent, as the first Englishman to lead an expedition to North America.\n\nLeaving Bristol, the expedition sailed past Ireland and across the Atlantic, making landfall somewhere on the coast of North America on 24 June 1497. The exact location of the landfall has long been disputed, with different communities vying for the honor. Historians have proposed Cape Bonavista and St. John's (present-day Newfoundland); Cape Breton Island (Nova Scotia); as well as Labrador (Canada) and Maine (United States) as possibilities. Since the discovery of the \"John Day letter\" in the 1950s, it seems most likely that the initial landfall was either on Newfoundland or Cape Breton Island. This is because Day's letter implies that the coastline explored in 1497 lay between the latitudes of Bordeaux, France and Dursey Head in southern Ireland. The initial landfall seems to have taken place close to the southern latitude, with the expedition returning home after reaching the northern one.\n\nFor the 500th-anniversary celebrations, the governments of Canada and the United Kingdom designated Cape Bonavista in Newfoundland as the \"official\" landing place. Here in 1997 Queen Elizabeth II, along with members of the Italian and Canadian governments, greeted the replica \"Matthew\" of Bristol, following its celebratory crossing of the Atlantic.\n\nCabot is reported to have landed only once during the expedition and did not advance \"beyond the shooting distance of a crossbow\". Pasqualigo and Day both state that the expedition made no contact with any native people; crew found the remains of a fire, a human trail, nets and a wooden tool. The crew appeared to have remained on land just long enough to take on fresh water; they also raised the Venetian and Papal banners, claiming the land for the King of England and recognising the religious authority of the Roman Catholic Church. After this landing, Cabot spent some weeks \"discovering the coast,\" with most \"discovered after turning back.\"\n\nOn return to Bristol, Cabot rode to London to report to the King. On 10 August 1497, he was given a reward of £10 – equivalent to about two years' pay for an ordinary labourer or craftsman. The explorer was feted; Soncino wrote on 23 August that Cabot \"is called the Great Admiral [note: as Christopher Columbus had been] and vast honour is paid to him and he goes dressed in silk, and these English run after him like mad\". Such adulation was short-lived, for over the next few months the King's attention was occupied by the Second Cornish Uprising of 1497, led by Perkin Warbeck. Once Henry's throne was secure, he gave more thought to Cabot. On 26 September, just a few days after the collapse of the revolt, the King made an award of £2 to Cabot. In December 1497 the explorer was awarded a pension of £20 per year. On February 3, 1498 he was given new letters patent covering the voyage and to help him prepare a second expedition. In March and April, the King also advanced a number of loans to Lancelot Thirkill of London, Thomas Bradley and John Cair, who were to accompany Cabot's new expedition.\n\nThe \"Great Chronicle of London\" (1189–1512) reports that Cabot departed with a fleet of five ships from Bristol at the beginning of May 1498, one of which had been prepared by the King. Some of the ships were said to be carrying merchandise, including cloth, caps, lace points and other \"trifles\". This suggests that Cabot intended to engage in trade on this expedition. The Spanish envoy in London reported in July that one of the ships had been caught in a storm and been forced to land in Ireland, but that Cabot and the other four ships had continued on.\n\nFor centuries no other records were found (or at least published) that relate to this expedition; it was long believed that Cabot and his fleet were lost at sea. But at least one of the men scheduled to accompany the expedition, Lancelot Thirkill of London, is recorded as living in London in 1501.\n\nIt is not known if Cabot died during the voyage, or returned safely and died shortly after.\n\nThe historian Alwyn Ruddock worked on Cabot and his era for 35 years. She suggested that Cabot and his expedition successfully returned to England in the spring of 1500. She claimed their return followed an epic two-year exploration of the east coast of North America, south into the Chesapeake Bay area and perhaps as far as the Spanish territories in the Caribbean. Her evidence included the well-known world map of the Spanish cartographer Juan de la Cosa. His chart included the North American coast and seas 'discovered by the English' between 1497 and 1500.\n\nRuddock suggested Fr. Giovanni Antonio de Carbonariis and the other friars who accompanied the 1498 expedition had stayed in Newfoundland and founded a mission. If Carbonariis founded a settlement in North America, it would have been the first Christian settlement on the continent, and may have included a church, the only medieval church to have been built there.\n\nThe Cabot Project at the University of Bristol was organized in 2009 to search for the evidence on which Ruddock's claims rest, as well as to undertake related studies of Cabot and his expeditions. The lead researchers on the project, Evan Jones and Margaret Condon, claim to have found further evidence to support aspects of Ruddock's case, including some of the information she intended to use to argue for a successful return of the 1498 expedition to Bristol. These appear to place John Cabot in London by May 1500, albeit Jones and Condon have yet to publish their documentation.\n\nThe Project is collaborating on an archaeological excavation at the community of Carbonear, Newfoundland, located at Conception Bay and believed the likely location for Carbonariis' mission settlement. The Archaeology of Historic Carbonear Project, carried out by Memorial University of Newfoundland, has conducted summer fieldwork each season since 2011. So far, it has found evidence of planter habitation since the late 17th century and of trade with Spain through Bilbao, including a Spanish coin minted in Peru.\n\nRuddock claimed that William Weston of Bristol, a supporter of Cabot, undertook an independent expedition to North America in 1499, sailing north from Newfoundland up to the Hudson Strait. If correct, this was probably the first North West Passage expedition. In 2009, Jones confirmed that William Weston (who was not previously known to have been involved) led an expedition from Bristol [with royal support] to the \"new found land\" in 1499 or 1500, making him the first Englishman to lead exploration of North America. This find has changed the understanding of English roles in exploration of that continent.\n\nKing Henry VII continued to support exploration from Bristol. The king granted Hugh Eliot, Robert Thorne and his son a bounty of ₤20 in January 1502 for purchasing the \"Gabriel\", a ship for an expedition voyage that summer. Later in 1502 or early 1503 he paid Eliot a reward of ₤100 for a voyage, or voyages, in \"2 ships to the Isle of new finding,\" as Newfoundland was called. This amount was larger than any previously accounted for in royal support of the explorations.\n\nCabot married Mattea around 1470, and had issue including three sons:\n\nSebastian Cabot, one of John's sons, also became an explorer, later making at least one voyage to North America. In 1508 he was searching for the Northwest Passage. Nearly two decades later, he sailed to South America for Spain to repeat Ferdinand Magellan's voyage around the world. He became diverted by searching for silver along the Río de la Plata (1525–8) in Argentina.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33664170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33664170", "title": "Julius Honorius", "text": "Julius Honorius\n\nJulius Honorius, also known as Julius Orator, a teacher of geography during Late Antiquity.\n\nHe is known only by a single work, \"Cosmographia\", which is a set of notes he had written down by one of his students while he lectured about a world map (\"sphaera\"), and by references to this work by later writers such as Cassiodorus. The importance of the \"Cosmographia\" is that it is one of very few geographical works of this period in which any reliance can be placed. A number of variant manuscripts exist, which have been studied by Nicolet & Gautier Dalché. The only (relatively) modern print version was as one of a collection of fragmentary texts published by Riese.\n\nNothing else is known of his life, and even the date of the \"Cosmographia\" is not known with certainty. The reference by Cassiodorus puts it prior to the mid 6th century. The most recent study, by Modéran, suggests a late 4th century date.\n\nAn attempt to reconstruct the \"sphaera\" was made by Kubitschek.\n\n"}
{"id": "55470576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55470576", "title": "Klanac Perjasički", "text": "Klanac Perjasički\n\nKlanac Perjasički is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "52921836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52921836", "title": "Land loss", "text": "Land loss\n\nLand loss is the term typically used to refer to the conversion of coastal land to open water by natural processes and human activities. The term \"land loss\" includes coastal erosion. It is much broader term than coastal erosion because land loss also includes land converted to open water around the edges of estuaries and interior bays and lakes and by subsidence of coastal plain wetlands. The most important causes of land loss in coastal plains are erosion, inadequate sediment supply to beaches and wetlands, subsidence, and global sea level rise.The mixture of processes responsible for most of the land loss will vary occurring the specific part of a coastal plain being examined. The definition of and loss does not include the loss of coastal lands to agriculture, urbanization, or other development.\n\nAlthough seemingly related, wetland loss, is defined differently than land loss. Commonly, wetland loss is defined as the conversion of vegetated wetlands into either uplands or drained areas; nonvegetated wetlands (e.g., mudflats); or (submerged habitats (open water). According to this, and similar definitions, wetland loss includes both land loss and land consumption as components of it. In historic times, both wetland and land loss typically are the result of a varying, often controversial mixture of natural and anthropogenic factors. There are other definitions of wetland loss commonly used. For example, some researchers defined wetland loss as \"the substantial removal of wetland from its ecologic role under natural conditions.\"\n\nBecause of a highly variable combination of sea level rise, sediment starvation, coastal erosion, wetland deterioration, various types of subsidence, and various human activities, land loss within delta plains is a significant global problem. The large delta plains of the world, including the Danube, Ganges, Brahmaputra, Indus, Mahanadi, Mangoky, McKenzie, Mississippi, Niger, Nile, Shatt el Arab, Volga, Yellow, Yukon, and Zambezi deltas, have all suffered significant land loss as the result of either coastal erosion, internal conversion of wetlands to open water, or a combination of both. For the 15 deltas studied by Coleman and others, these deltas experienced a total irreversible land loss of of wetlands between the early 1980s and 2002. During this period, the total average land loss for all of these deltas was about per year. In case of the Mississippi River Delta, they found that in a 12-year period, some of wetlands had been converted to new open water at a rate of per year.\n\n"}
{"id": "157024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157024", "title": "Leaf mold", "text": "Leaf mold\n\nLeaf mold (Leaf mould outside of the United States) is the product of slow decomposition of deciduous shrub and tree leaves. It is a form of compost produced primarily by fungal breakdown.\n\nLeaves shed in autumn tend to have a very low nitrogen content and are often dry. Their main constituents are cellulose and lignin. Because of this, autumn leaves break down far more slowly than most other compost ingredients with very little bacterial decomposition involved.\n\nFungal decomposition of a heap of leaves in the open can take between one and two years to break down into a dark brown fine powdery humic matter. During the two to three years that the process takes to complete in damp temperate climates, a succession of different fungal species may be involved. A range of micro fauna are also involved in converting the leaf material into a fine-grained humus, including many isopods, millipedes, earthworms, etc.\n\nIn the natural environment the slow decomposition of leaves provides a moist growing medium for young plants and also protects the ground from drying out during periods of low rainfall. It is a significant component of soil organic matter, particularly in temperate deciduous woodland. The slow rate of decomposition allows the plant nutrients bound up in the leaves to be released slowly back into the environment where they can be re-used by plants. Autumn leaves are often collected as part of gardening or farming and kept in pits or containers so that the leaf mold can be used in the garden. The presence of oxygen from the air and sufficient moisture are essential for leaf decomposition. Leaf mold is not high in nutrient content, but it is excellent humic soil conditioner because of its ability to retain moisture and provide a good growing medium for seedling roots. \nLeaves collected off roads and pavements may be contaminated by pollutants which can become more concentrated as the leaves decompose into a smaller volume \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3149050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3149050", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: B", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: B\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\nGreenland is a self-governed territory of Denmark. Many locations in Greenland have Danish names in addition to the Greenlandic names. The Danish name, when applicable, is shown in parentheses.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48904828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48904828", "title": "List of flags of Venezuela", "text": "List of flags of Venezuela\n\nThe following is a list of flags of Venezuela.\n\n"}
{"id": "31203058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31203058", "title": "List of hospitals in Benin", "text": "List of hospitals in Benin\n\nThe following is a list of hospitals and clinics in Benin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44405847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44405847", "title": "List of mountains and hills of the Rhenish Massif", "text": "List of mountains and hills of the Rhenish Massif\n\nThis list of mountains and hills of the Rhenish Massif (: \"Rhenish Slate Mountains\") is a selection of the mountains, hills and foothills of the ranges and landscapes that form the Rhenish Massif − sorted by natural regional main unit groups and heights in metres (m) above sea level (NHN).\n\nAn explanation of the abbreviations used is given below.\n\nThe Ardennes lie in Belgium, with foothills in France and Luxembourg.\n\nThe Eifel lies in Germany with foothills in Belgium and Luxembourg.\n\n→ \"main article: List of mountains and hills of the Eifel\"\n\nThe High Fens lie in Belgium with foothills in Germany.\n\nThe Hunsrück lies in Rhineland-Palatinate with foothills in the Saarland.\n\n\nThe Kellerwald lies entirely within Hesse.\n\n→ \"main article: List of mountains and hills of the Kellerwald\"\n\nThe Süder Uplands (\"Süderbergland\") comprise \"inter alia\" the historic regions of the Sauerland, Upland, Siegerland, Wittgenstein Land, Bergisches Land and parts of the Hessian Hinterland.\n\nThe subdivisions of the Rothaar is based largely on historic regions. It lies in North Rhine-Westphalia with foothills in Hesse.\n\n→ \"main article: List of mountains and hills of the Rothaar\"\n\nThe following mountains in the highest area of the Rothaar Mountains are those belongin to the historic Upland which lies in the Hessian county of Waldeck-Frankenberg.\n\n→ \"see also section: Mountains\" in the article on \"Upland\"\n\nThe Wittgenstein Land lies entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nThe historic Siegerland (not to be confused with the natural region of Siegerland) lies entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia:\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Siegerland\"\n\nThe Hessian Hinterland lies entirely within Hesse.\n\n\nThe Saalhausen Hills lie entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Saalhausen Hills\"\n\nThe Ebbe Mountains lies entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Ebbe Mountains\"\n\nThe Lenne Mountains lies entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Lenne Mountains\"\n\n\nThe natural region of Siegerland (not to be confused with the historic Siegerland) lies entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia:\n\n→ \"see also section: Mountains\" in the article on \"Siegerland (natural region)\"\n\nThe Arnsberg Forest lies in the eponymous nature park entirely within North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Arnsberg Forest Nature Park\"\n\n\nThe Taunus lies in Hesse with foothills in Rhineland-Palatinate.\n\n→ \"main article: List of mountains and hills of the Taunus\"\n\nThe Westerwald lies within Rhineland-Palatinate with foothills in North Rhine-Westphalia and Hesse.\n\n→ \"main article: List of mountains and hills of the Westerwald\"\n\nThe Gladenbach Upland lies entirely within Hesse.\n\n→ \"see also section: Hills\" in the article on \"Gladenbach Uplands\"\n\n\nThe following abbreviations are used in the table:\n\nGerman states (\"Bundesländer\"; ISO 3166-2):\n\nCountries (based on their international vehicle registration codes):\n"}
{"id": "42120528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42120528", "title": "List of museums in Cambodia", "text": "List of museums in Cambodia\n\nThis is a list of museums in Cambodia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396359", "title": "List of political parties in China", "text": "List of political parties in China\n\nChina, officially the People's Republic of China, is formally a multi-party state under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in a United Front similar to the popular fronts of former Communist-era Eastern European countries such as the National Front of Democratic Germany.\n\nUnder the one country, two systems scheme, the special administrative regions of Hong Kong and Macau, which were previously colonies of European powers, operate under a different political system to the rest of China. Currently, both Hong Kong and Macau possess multi-party systems.\n\nIn practice, only one political party holds effective power at the national level, namely the CPC. Its dominance is such that China is effectively a one-party state. Eight minor parties are part of the United Front and also take part in the political system, but they have limited power on a national level and are almost completely subservient to the CPC as they must accept the \"leading role\" of the CPC as a condition of their continued existence. The Chinese political system allows for the participation of some non-CPC members and minor parties in the National People's Congress (NPC), but they are vetted by the CPC. The Constitution of China states in the preamble: \"The system of the multi-party cooperation and political consultation led by the Communist Party of China will exist and develop for a long time to come\".\n\nAlthough opposition parties are not formally banned in China, the CPC maintains control over the political system in several ways.\n\nFirst, only the people's congresses/assemblies up to the county level (or district under a municipality) are subject to direct popular vote. Even such a lower-level direct election can be highly controlled or managed by the CPC and higher level governmental bodies. Above the county level, one people's congress appoints the members of the next higher congress. This means that although independent members can theoretically and occasionally in practice get elected to county-level people's congresses, it is impossible for them to organize to the point where they can elect members above the county level without the approval of the CPC or to exercise oversight over executive positions at the lowest level in the hierarchy. This lack of effective power also discourages outsiders from contesting the people's congress elections even at the lowest level.\n\nSecond, although Chinese law has no formal provision for banning a non-religious organization, it also has no provision which would give non-CPC political parties any corporate status. This means that a hypothetical opposition party would have no legal means to collect funds or own property in the name of the party. More importantly, Chinese law also has a wide range of offenses which can and have been used against the leaders of efforts to form an opposition party such as the Democracy Party of China and against members of organizations that the CPC sees as threatening its power. These include the crimes of subversion, sedition and revealing state secrets. Moreover, the control that the CPC has over the legislative and judicial processes means that the party can author legislation that targets a particular group.\n\nThird, Article 1 of the Constitution defines China as a \"people's democratic dictatorship\" with \"the socialist system\" as its \"basic system\". It explicitly forbids \"sabotage of the socialist system by any individual or organization\".\n\nThe following parties have been and are currently suppressed in China. Due to censorship and suppression, they most likely have their headquarters outside the Chinese mainland.\n\nThe Republic of China (ROC) was founded by the Kuomintang (KMT) leader Dr. Sun Yat-sen in 1912. The Kuomintang's prior revolutionary political group, the Revive China Society, was founded on 24 November 1894. It later merged with various other revolutionary groups to form the Tongmenghui in 1905. In August 1911, the Tongmenghui further merged with various other political parties i]n Beijing to form the KMT. In July 1914, the KMT re-organized itself as the Chinese Revolutionary Party in Tokyo, Japan. In 1919, the party officially renamed itself as Kuomintang of China, which literally translates to Chinese Nationalist Party. It was China's first major political party. In 1921, the Communist Party of China (CPC) was founded by Chen Duxiu and Li Dazhao in Shanghai as a study society and an informal network. Slowly, the CPC began to grow. These were the two major political parties in China during the time when the ROC ruled mainland China from 1911 to 1949.\n\nDuring the Chinese Civil War, under the leadership of the CPC the People's Liberation Army defeated the National Revolutionary Army of the Kuomintang in 1949. The Kuomintang had no choice but to leave mainland China and move to the island of Taiwan in 1945 from Japan, then fled there with the aim to retake mainland China and retained the name Republic of China even though the CPC claimed that it had ceased to exist after 1949.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28924376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924376", "title": "Lithalsa", "text": "Lithalsa\n\nLithalsa is a frost-induced raised land form in permafrost areas with mineral-rich soils, where a perennial ice lens has developed within the soil. The term sometimes also refers to palsas and pingos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1912699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1912699", "title": "Michael Frank Goodchild", "text": "Michael Frank Goodchild\n\nMichael Frank Goodchild (born February 24, 1944) is a British-American geographer. He is an Emeritus Professor of Geography at the University of California, Santa Barbara. After nineteen years at the University of Western Ontario, including three years as chair, he moved to Santa Barbara in 1988, as part of the establishment of the National Center for Geographic Information and Analysis, which he directed for over 20 years. In 2008, he founded the UCSB Center for Spatial Studies.\n\n\nHis most influential work has involved research on Geographic Information Science (aka GIS or computer mapping). He is widely credited with coining \"Volunteered Geographic Information\" and is considered the world's foremost expert on the topic.\n\nAs a doctoral student at McMaster University, Goodchild rediscovered Castleguard Cave (20 kilometers long, the longest cave in Canada) . His student Alan Glennon discovered an entrance and made significant discoveries to the Martin Ridge Cave System, Kentucky (51.8 kilometers long) . Goodchild's dissertation advisor, Dr. Derek C. Ford, is a Canadian geomorphologist and karst scientist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31921977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31921977", "title": "Mixed grass prairie", "text": "Mixed grass prairie\n\nA mixed-grass prairie is an ecotone located between the tallgrass prairies and shortgrass prairies. The mixed-grass prairie is richer in ecological diversity than either the tall- or shortgrass prairie. The mixed-grass prairie occurs in the central portion of the Great Plains, varying in width from central Texas in the United States up into southeastern Manitoba, Alberta and Saskatchewan in Canada.\n"}
{"id": "26624026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26624026", "title": "Numa Numa Trail", "text": "Numa Numa Trail\n\nThe Numa Numa Trail is a trail on Bougainville in Papua New Guinea that runs from Numa Numa on the east coast over the central mountains of Bougainville to Torokina on the western coast.\n\nThe trail was central to the Torokina perimeter defence during the initial phases of the Bougainville campaign during World War II with a number of battles fought along the trail.\n"}
{"id": "18699786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18699786", "title": "Ocean fisheries", "text": "Ocean fisheries\n\nA fishery is an area with an associated fish or aquatic population which is harvested for its commercial value. Fisheries can be wild or farmed. Most of the world's wild fisheries are in the ocean. This article is an overview of ocean fisheries.\n\nOceans occupy 71 percent of the Earth's surface. They are divided into five major oceans, which in decreasing order of size are: the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Southern Ocean, and Arctic Ocean. Over 70 percent of the world catch from the sea comes from the Pacific Ocean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13984263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13984263", "title": "OrthoGraph", "text": "OrthoGraph\n\nThe OrthoGraph I is a building survey and floor plan creation application for iOS and Android, developed in Hungary. It handles both structured alphanumeric data, and measures and handles all drawings real time in 3D. It has built-in Cloud functionality so files can be shared on multiple tablets or phones.\n\nThe standard output of the system can be DXF (AutoCAD), PDF (Adobe) IFC (Industrial Foundation Classes), JPG and PNG and it can be exported to ArchiCAD with the help of a separate module. During the measurement process, Leica, Bosch and Stabila laser distance meters are supported to use, the measured data is transferred to the software via Bluetooth.\n\nOrthoGraph I has several features that are unique on the market of building surveying applications. The base of a floor plan needs to be drawn first and after measurements the created floor plans will adjust based on the calculations. Diagonal measurements also allow for mathematical accuracy.\n\nThe application handles the sketched and measured building-model according to the BIM (Building Information Modeling) concept. It means that it handles a hierarchical location-structure, every placed object has several properties, doors and windows have opening directions, and additionally there is the opportunity to add unique parameter fields with optional information.\nThe system is developed by the Hungarian Company named OrthoGraph.\n\nThe story of OrthoGraph goes back to 2004 when the first version of the software was launched for PDA devices. In 2011, the iPad version of the app was released and this also meant that a new business model has been emerged.\nThis new version was a major breakthrough both in technological and in business aspects. The company’s gathered experience had been a good background for developing the iPad application, so from the very first moment, the OrthoGraph became one of the top professional building surveying /CAD application on the market.\n\nIn 2013, a cooperation agreement has been established between OrthoGraph and Leica, the result of this collaboration was that now several Leica laser distance meter is supported by OrthoGraph, the measurements can be transferred to the app via Bluetooth connection.\n\nIn the second half of the year, the company decided to exploit the benefits of the mobile technology and the Internet and created their own cloud services. This new technology has made it possible that the first building surveying software that provides the opportunity of real teamwork was born.\n\nIn the same year, the Bluetooth support of the Bosch GLM 100 C laser distance meter for OrthoGraph became available.\nFor 2014, the number of OrthoGraph users reached 4,500. In August 2014, the OrthoGraph Architect App has been named the gold winner in App of the Year category and silver winner in the Most Innovative Product of the Year—SMB category in Best in Biz Awards 2014 International business awards program.\n\nIn 2015 the main goal for OrthoGraph was to be present on Android. After one and a half year on September 2016 the multiplatform version of the app was published, which was called OrthoGraph I. The completely changed UI was simpler, the features were more advanced to allow more accurate measurements and a faster work process. After 2 months of the release, OrthoGraph I won silver qualification in the \"Best New Version of the Year\" category of Best in Biz Awards 2016.\n\n * 2011 – OrthoGraph Architect 3D for iPad - first iPad version\n\n"}
{"id": "923233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923233", "title": "Pozsony County", "text": "Pozsony County\n\nPozsony county was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary. Its territory lies in present-day western Slovakia.\n\nIts name changed along with that of the city of Pressburg (, today's Bratislava). Its names around 1900 were \"Pozsony vármegye\" in Hungarian, \"Prešpurská župa\" in Slovak and \"Preßburger Gespanschaft\" in German.\n\nThe county shared borders with the Austrian land of Lower Austria and the Hungarian counties Nyitra, Komárom, Győr and Moson. It was situated between the river Morava in the west, the river Danube in the south, and the river Váh () in the east. The southern part of the Little Carpathians divided the county into two. It also covered most of the island known today as Žitný ostrov (Hungarian: \"Csallóköz\") between the Danube and the Little Danube. Its area was 4,370 km² around 1910.\n\nThe seats of Pozsony county were the Pozsony Castle (present-day Bratislava Castle) and Somorja (present-day Šamorín), and from the 18th century onwards the town of Pressburg.\n\nA sort of predecessor to Pozsony county existed as early as the 9th century during the time of Great Moravia. After Pozsony county's territory had become part of the Kingdom of Hungary, the Hungarian comitatus was created around 1000 or even earlier. It was one of the first counties created in the Kingdom of Hungary. Its territory comprised roughly both the present-day Bratislava Region and Trnava Region. Throughout its history it was among the most prosperous territories of Hungary, and until the late 18th century it was particularly advanced and prosperous. In the 18th and 19th century, the population consisted of Slovaks (mainly in the north and in the suburbs of Pressburg, Hungarians (mainly in the south, some suburbs of Pressburg, Germans (mainly in Pressburg and larger towns) and Croats (mainly in the suburbs of Pressburg).\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, most of Pozsony county became part of newly formed Czechoslovakia, as recognized by the concerned states in 1920 by the Treaty of Trianon. As Bratislava county, it continued to exist until 1927 in Czechoslovakia, but it had completely different powers and somewhat modified borders. A small part south of the river Danube remained part of Hungary and joined Győr-Moson-Pozsony county.\n\nFollowing the provisions of the First Vienna Award, the southeastern part of the area (Žitný ostrov, Senec, Galanta) became part of Hungary again in November 1938. The approximate Trianon borders were restored after World War II.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 367,417 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\nIn 1910, the county had a population of 389,750 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\nAccording to the census of 1910, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\nIn the early 20th century, the subdivisions of Pozsony county were:\n"}
{"id": "5320106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5320106", "title": "Purling Brook Falls", "text": "Purling Brook Falls\n\nThe Purling Brook Falls or sometimes incorrectly Purlingbrook Falls, a horsetail waterfall on the Purling Brook, is located in the UNESCO World Heritagelisted Gondwana Rainforests in the South East region of Queensland, Australia.\n\nThe Purling Brook Falls are situated within the central section of Springbrook National Park as part of the Shield Volcano Group, at Springbrook which is part of the Gold Coast hinterland, south-west of Surfers Paradise.\n\nAfter heavy rains the falling waters creates a spectacle that attracts large numbers of tourists. At these times the danger from falling rocks during landslides can be hazardous so barricades are erected to prevent walking along tracks that pass the base of the falls.\n\n"}
{"id": "22556737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22556737", "title": "Qurayn Abu al Bawl", "text": "Qurayn Abu al Bawl\n\nQurain Abu al-Bawl (also Gurain al Balbul, Gurain al Bâlbûl, Qurain Abul Bul, Qurayn Aba al Bawl, Qurayn Abā al Bawl, Tuwayyir al Hamir) is the highest point of Qatar, with an altitude of 103 metres (338 ft). It is located south of the peninsula near the border to Saudi-Arabia.\n\n\"Qurain\" is interchangeable with \"Qarn\", the Arabic word which roughly corresponds to sandy, flat hillock. The second part of the name, romanized either as \"Abu al-Bawl\" or \"Balboul\", was chosen as the hill is thought to represent the shape of a traditional flat-shaped toy known as balboul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40139703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40139703", "title": "Shades of Grey: Glasgow 1956-86", "text": "Shades of Grey: Glasgow 1956-86\n\nShades of Grey: Glasgow, 1956-86 is a book of photographs by Oscar Marzaroli with an essay by William McIlvanney.\n\nOne of the photos from the book, a 1963 portrait of three young boys wearing their mother's high-heeled shoes playing in Kidson Street in the Gorbals area of Glasgow, was in 2005 made into a bronze statue installed in Queen Elizabeth Square. The statue was unveiled in August 2008 by Nicola Sturgeon, then Scotland's Deputy First Minister.\n\n"}
{"id": "4600733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4600733", "title": "Shaumari Wildlife Reserve", "text": "Shaumari Wildlife Reserve\n\nThe Shaumari Wildlife Reserve is a Jordanian nature reserve near the town of Azraq, approximately east of Amman.\n\nIt is a regionally important reserve created in 1975 by the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature as a breeding center for endangered or locally extinct wildlife. The reserve is a thriving protected environment for some of the most threatened species of animals in the Middle East. Some of the species include Arabian oryx, Somali ostriches, Persian onagers (an Asian wild ass from Iran) and gazelles.\n"}
{"id": "38451351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38451351", "title": "Sortedam Lake", "text": "Sortedam Lake\n\nSortedam Lake () is a lake at Copenhagen in Denmark. A vertical slope was added in the area in 1929. In September 2012 it was announced that there were plans to build a floating bridge on the lake, and construction material left from digging underground tunnels would be placed on the eastern part of Sortedam in the Østerbrogade (‘Lille Trianglen’) area. Painter Christen Købke lived near the lake in the 1830s, and painted \"Efterårsmorgen ved Sortedamssøen\" in 1838.\n"}
{"id": "11613872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11613872", "title": "Sätraån", "text": "Sätraån\n\nSätraån (Swedish: \"Stream of Sätra\") is a stream in southern Stockholm, Sweden.\n\nPreviously stretching 6 km from Västertorp and Segeltorp, Sätraån is today confined to the Sätra Open-air Area and approximately a kilometre long. The limited current discharge causes the stream to be reduced to minor temporary pools of water except during spring. Nevertheless, the stream is considered a valuable natural environment because of the ravine it has cut though the landscape and because of its location in a forest of recreational importance to the suburb Sätra.\n\nThe catchment area, once encompassing a major portion of south-west Stockholm (roughly 11–12 km²), is today insignificant and the stream is drained during most of the year. The inflow was slightly increased in 2002 when a stormwater pipe was modified and a damm was built to treat the water. The mouth of the stream is located near a public bathe. Most of the surrounding area is covered by grass and forests with no settlements within the current catchment area.\n\nNotwithstanding the limited extent of the catchment area, the few samples taken in the area showed significant levels of phosphorus, nitrogen, and metals; a situation explained by the inflow of groundwater from an area larger than suggested by the extent of the watershed. Samples taken in 2000 showed levels of lead, zinc, and copper were exceptional in the upper course.\n\nBottom fauna includes some 53 species, typically endurable to nutrient-rich aquatic environments offering stagnant waters and low levels of oxygen - most commonly various species of Oligochaeta and \"Pisidium\". An inventory in late 1999 / early 2000 also documented larvae of Chironomidae flies and \"Asellus aquaticus\" crustaceans; A few species of beetles and caddisflies, including species more typical for moist environments such as wetlands and marshes. Also species sensitive to acidification, such as \"Gammarus pulex\" and \"Baera pullata\", were recorded. Near the mouth of the stream various species of mayflies common to exposed lake shores and running waters were documented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23536828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23536828", "title": "Teilherzogtum", "text": "Teilherzogtum\n\nTeilherzogtum is a German term denoting a part () of a duchy () after the duchy had been internally partitioned among members of the respective ducal family. \"Teilherzogtum\" does not have an English cognate.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72465", "title": "Tributary", "text": "Tributary\n\nA tributary or affluent is a stream or river that flows into a larger stream or main stem (or parent) river or a lake. A tributary does not flow directly into a sea or ocean. Tributaries and the main stem river drain the surrounding drainage basin of its surface water and groundwater, leading the water out into an ocean.\n\nA confluence, where two or more bodies of water meet together, usually refers to the joining of tributaries.\n\nThe opposite to a tributary is a distributary, a river or stream that branches off from and flows away from the main stream. Distributaries are most often found in river deltas.\n\n\"Right tributary\" and \"left tributary\" (or \"right-bank tributary\" and \"left-bank tributary\") are terms stating the orientation of the tributary relative to the flow of the main stem river. These terms are defined from the perspective of looking downstream (in the direction the water current of the main stem is going).\n\nIn the United States, where tributaries sometimes have the same name as the river into which they feed, they are called forks. These are typically designated by compass direction. For example, the American River receives flow from its North, Middle, and South forks. The Chicago River's North Branch has the East, West, and Middle Fork; the South Branch has its South Fork, and used to have a West Fork as well (now filled in).\n\nForks are sometimes designated as right or left. Here, the \"handedness\" is from the point of view of an observer facing upstream. For instance, Steer Creek has a left tributary which is called Right Fork Steer Creek.\n\nTributaries are sometimes listed starting with those nearest to the source of the river and ending with those nearest to the mouth of the river. The Strahler Stream Order examines the arrangement of tributaries in a hierarchy of first, second, third, and higher orders, with the first-order tributary being typically the least in size. For example, a second-order tributary would be the result of two or more first-order tributaries combining to form the second-order tributary.\n\nAnother method is to list tributaries from mouth to source, in the form of a tree structure, stored as a tree data structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "18554848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18554848", "title": "Village development committee (Nepal)", "text": "Village development committee (Nepal)\n\nA village development committee (VDC) () in Nepal was the lower administrative part of its Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development. Each district had several VDCs, similar to municipalities but with greater public-government interaction and administration. There are currently 3,157 village development committees in Nepal. Each VDC was further divided into several wards () depending on the population of the district; the average being nine wards. \n\nThe purposes of a Munucipality are:\n\nIn a VDC, there is one elected chief, usually elected with over an 80% majority. From each ward, a chief is elected. With these, there are four members elected or nominated.\n\nTo keep data and records, and to manage administrative works, there is one village secretary. The position is appointed by the government permanently, from whom they receive a salary. The ward members, ward chief, and VDC chiefs are not paid a salary, but they obtain money according to presence.\n\nVDC is guided from the district development committee, headquarters, and the chief of DDC is a local development officer (LDO).\n\nPopulation and housing details of VDCs in Nepal are provided by the National Population and Housing Census, in 1991, 2001 and 2011.\n\nThe Village Development Committee (VDC) was dissolved on March 10, 2017 to be replaced by Gaunpalika. Previously, panchayat was dissolved and turned into VDC by the Constitution of Nepal 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "26488977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26488977", "title": "World Surfing Reserves", "text": "World Surfing Reserves\n\nThe mission of the WSR program is to gain international recognition and support for wave and coastal protection around the world by creating a global network of designated surfing reserves. WSR also recognizes environmental, social, cultural and economic benefits of waves.\n\nLeaders in the international surfing, environmental and scientific communities launched WSR at the Value of Waves Roundtable held in Half Moon Bay, California. WSR was created in conjunction with National Surfing Reserves Australia, and has established partnerships with the International Surfing Association (ISA), and Stanford University's Center for Responsible Travel (CREST).\n\nWorld Surfing Reserves is led by an international executive committee and vision council. It is the responsibility of these groups to govern the program and make the final wave selections. For a specific surf site to enter WSR, the region must have exceptional and consistent surf, along with a rich history and culture of surfing, as well as strong community support.\n\nIn August 2009, WSR called for nominations from all national surfing federations. More than 150 sites were nominated from 34 countries. WSR eventually plans to induct 30-40 surf breaks around the world. The program has gained a substantial amount of positive feedback and support from the sport's leaders, including Kelly Slater. You can also read Drew Kampion's \"World Surfing Reserves Manifesto\".\n\n\"Vision Council\": Fernando Aguerre, Will Henry, Jim Moriarty, Tony Butt, Terry Gibson, Len Materman, Miles Walsh, Wallace J. Nichols, Steve Hawk, Wayne “Rabbit” Bartholomew, Tiago Pires, Greg Long, Mark Massara, Chris LaFrankie, Chad Nelsen, Neil Lazarow, Brad Farmer, Manolo Lozano, Juca De Barros, Drew Kampion, Professor Andy Short, Professor Ben Finney.\n\n\"Executive Committee\": Professor Andy Short, Brad Farmer, Drew Kampion, Will Henry, Dean LaTourrette.\n\nThere are currently nine surfing reserves across the world.\n\nIn partnership with National Surfing Reserves Australia, the International Surfing Association (ISA), and Stanford University’s Center for Responsible Travel (CREST), Save The Waves Coalition inducted Malibu Surfrider Beach as the first World Surfing Reserve site. The official enshrinement ceremony took place on October 9, 2010. The date indicated the commencement of the commitment by the local and international communities to protect and preserve Malibu as an iconic surf site.\n\nWorld Surfing Reserves are nominated through a selection process and there are currently dozens of proposed WSRs covering nearly every continent on the planet.\n\nThe first World Surfing Reserve in Europe, Ericeira, Portugal was dedicated on October 14, 2011. Ericeira stretches 4 km (2.5 miles) and consists of seven separate surf spots, including popular breaks such as Ribeira d’Ilhas and Coxos. Ericeira was recognized for its high density of surf breaks, wave quality, and unique environment.\n\nOn 10 March 2012, the four kilometre stretch between Freshwater Beach and Shelly Beach was declared the \"Manly-Freshwater World Surfing Reserve\". The reserve was dedicated in a ceremony on Manly Beach by world surfing champion Kelly Slater accompanied by the governor of New South Wales, Australia, Professor Marie Bashir.\n\nThe World Surfing Reserve dedication for Santa Cruz, California took place from April 27–28, 2012, and featured a number of events, including a wetsuit fashion show and a paddle out at Pleasure Point. The official ceremony took place out front the Santa Cruz Surfing Museum, where Pat O'Neil from O'Neill wetsuits and local officials spoke.\n\nHuanchaco beach is a summer vacation spot located in the northern city of Trujillo, Peru. Huanchaco is famous for several things but particularly for being a surfer's dream spot and its caballitos de totora. The most famous food here is the ceviche. Huanchaco is nearby the very famous ruins of Chan Chan. Throughout 2008 the town underwent significant improvements with all streets being paved with decorative bricks and the main street landscaped with plants. Huanchaco was approved as a World Surfing Reserve by the organization Save The Waves Coalition in 2012 and officially dedicated on October 26, 2013.\n\nNow the 9th WSR, Guarda do Embaú is home to a world-class wave that breaks consistently year-round and is known as one of the best surf spots in Brazil.\n\nSave the Waves Coalition also created a Google Earth WSR plug-in that allows organizations and individuals to view nominated sites around the world. The plug-in allows users to learn about a nominated wave's history, location, environmental characteristics and surf culture.\n\n"}
