{"id": "227893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227893", "title": "1512 in literature", "text": "1512 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1512.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31424206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31424206", "title": "Above and Below", "text": "Above and Below\n\nAbove and Below is an installation by American artist Maya Lin, the designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. It is on display at and owned by the Indianapolis Museum of Art located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. The artwork was inspired by underground water systems in Indiana.\n\nAt the sculpture hangs from the ceiling of the Museum's Fortune balcony which is accessible by the Asian Art gallery. It consists of different thicknesses of black painted wire aluminum tubing strewn together in a flowing-like manner as if to depict a river hanging above the viewers head. \"Above and Below\" is visible from the 3rd floor galleries and the 4th floor windows.\n\nIn 1990 the IMA moved their Asian art galleries to the third floor which featured a balcony overlooking the . The IMA's Jane Weldon Myers Curator of Asian Art Jim Robinson sought to showcase Asian art on the balcony and immediately thought of Lin. The size of the . x balcony caused curator and artist alike to struggle on what could be created for the space. At first Lin thought about creating an artwork for the floor of the balcony then she decided to create her installation for the ceiling which would unify the Asian Art and contemporary art galleries. The sculpture was purchased with funds from William L. and Jane H. Fortune with Maya Lin overseeing the installation. In 2008 a new stone floor was installed on the balcony, with stones selected by Lin.\n\n\"I don't think people really understand how intricate and beautiful some of these systems are.\" – Maya Lin\"\n\nMaya Lin is known for her major installation works which incorporate terrain and topography – inspirations that assisted in the creation of \"Above and Below\". After years of struggling with the balcony space and lack of topographical landscaping in central Indiana, Lin received a suggestion from an assistant from Indiana stating that \"there isn't that much above ground, but did you realize there are these incredibly long underground river systems?\" Lin decided to create an underground river system out of wire, despite telling the IMA she was creating a landscape of rubber. Lin and her team researched the Bluespring Caverns, the Lost River, and the White River. Lin visited the Caverns and worked with U.S. Geological Survey scientists who created an ultrasound map of the tributaries for the artist. The sculpture seeks to \"recreate the experience and feeling\" of the underwater landscapes through use of various thickness of wire. Three-fifths of the artwork depict the Bluespring Cavern with the last two sections depicting what is beneath the water level in the cave.\n\n\"Above and Below\" was fabricated at Walla Walla Foundry in Washington utilizing the bathymetric data gathered from the river bottom and cavern ceiling. Lin's studio translated the data into a collection of contour curves and then sent them to the Foundry. The aluminum tubing was carefully bent to match the computer-generated templates created by the studio then hung within the Foundry. The artwork was then disassembled and shipped to the Indianapolis Art Museum and installed in the course of a freezing cold week on the outside balcony. Lin has created other artwork installations which she describes as \"drawing in space\" including \"Where the Land Meets the Sea\" (2008) in the collection of the California Academy of Sciences.\n\nArt historians at the IMA have described the piece as being easily placed within the minimalist and postminimalist tradition due to artists of those movements bringing landscape and nature into the gallery through exploration of environments on a larger scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "44703381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44703381", "title": "Air America (book)", "text": "Air America (book)\n\nAir America is a 1978 non-fiction book by Christopher Robbins, a journalist investigating CIA drug trafficking and front companies for \"The Observer\".\n\nThe book chronicles the investigative reporting of Robbins from his accidental discovery of the very existence of a company named Air America to the end of the former CIA-owned company, ultimately privatized.\n\nIt is the story of one of the world's biggest covert operations: Air America was owned by the CIA, started from the scratch of bunch of other agency-owned air assets. Air America—at its peak—became the biggest civil air fleet in the world.\n\nFrom the 1950s to the early 1970s, Indochina had been the landscape of vast major drug and military operations played by many actors including European and communist countries. When the US military involvement started, costs rose and new resources, especially for covert operations, were needed. Since the time of the Anglo-Chinese war, opium was the main source of wealth in the region. CIA and Air America flew those skies from the times of the Korean War. A new facility was built inside CIA headquarters in northern Laos where bulk opium was refined into heroin and shipped abroad. Within a decade of military intervention, in the early seventies, Indochina had become the world's leading opium producer, reaching a 70% worldwide marketshare.\n\nAir America's pilots flew dangerous missions, those no one else would fly, frequently under enemy fire.\n\nAir America's motto was \"Anything, anywhere, anytime\". \"Anything\" included food, medical supplies, weapons, and drug-related items. The most important precursors required for refining raw opium into heroin are ether and acetic anhydride. Because of its use for the synthesis of heroin by the diacetylation of morphine, acetic anhydride is today listed as a US DEA List II precursor, and officially restricted in many other countries.\n\nMany missions were in fact aid-oriented missions to provide logistical support and food to allies who were fighting the war along with the South Vietnamese and the US. Most of the time, pilots did not know what they were delivering, just when and where, no matter what the weather was like, or whether it was day or night.\n"}
{"id": "37982764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37982764", "title": "Alenka Goljevšček", "text": "Alenka Goljevšček\n\nAlenka Goljevšček (7 September 1933 – 17 January 2017) was a Slovene writer, essayist and playwright.\n\nShe won the Levstik Award in 1988 for her book on Slovene mythology \"Med bogovi in demoni\" (Amongst Gods and Daemons). She is also a playwright.\n\nHer husband was the literary historian, philosopher and essayist Taras Kermauner. She died on 17 January 2017.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42869687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42869687", "title": "Ancient Greek art", "text": "Ancient Greek art\n\nAncient Greek art stands out among that of other ancient cultures for its development of naturalistic but idealized depictions of the human body, in which largely nude male figures were generally the focus of innovation. The rate of stylistic development between about 750 and 300 BC was remarkable by ancient standards, and in surviving works is best seen in sculpture. There were important innovations in painting, which have to be essentially reconstructed due to the lack of original survivals of quality, other than the distinct field of painted pottery. \n\nGreek architecture, technically very simple, established a harmonious style with numerous detailed conventions that were largely adopted by Roman architecture and are still followed in some modern buildings. It used a vocabulary of ornament that was shared with pottery, metalwork and other media, and had an enormous influence on Eurasian art, especially after Buddhism carried it beyond the expanded Greek world created by Alexander the Great. The social context of Greek art included radical political developments and a great increase in prosperity; the equally impressive Greek achievements in philosophy, literature and other fields are well known.\n\nThe earliest art by Greeks is generally excluded from ancient Greek art, and instead known as Aegean art; this includes Cycladic art and the art of the Minoan and Mycenaean cultures from the Greek Bronze Age. The art of ancient Greece is usually divided stylistically into four periods: the Geometric, Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic. The Geometric age is usually dated from about 1000 BC, although in reality little is known about art in Greece during the preceding 200 years, traditionally known as the Greek Dark Ages. The 7th century BC witnessed the slow development of the Archaic style as exemplified by the black-figure style of vase painting. Around 500 BC, shortly before the onset of the Persian Wars (480 BC to 448 BC), is usually taken as the dividing line between the Archaic and the Classical periods, and the reign of Alexander the Great (336 BC to 323 BC) is taken as separating the Classical from the Hellenistic periods. From some point in the 1st century BC onwards \"Greco-Roman\" is used, or more local terms for the Eastern Greek world.\n\nIn reality, there was no sharp transition from one period to another. Forms of art developed at different speeds in different parts of the Greek world, and as in any age some artists worked in more innovative styles than others. Strong local traditions, and the requirements of local cults, enable historians to locate the origins even of works of art found far from their place of origin. Greek art of various kinds was widely exported. The whole period saw a generally steady increase in prosperity and trading links within the Greek world and with neighbouring cultures.\n\nThe survival rate of Greek art differs starkly between media. We have huge quantities of pottery and coins, much stone sculpture, though even more Roman copies, and a few large bronze sculptures. Almost entirely missing are painting, fine metal vessels, and anything in perishable materials including wood. The stone shell of a number of temples and theatres has survived, but little of their extensive decoration.\n\nBy convention, finely painted vessels of all shapes are called \"vases\", and there are over 100,000 significantly complete surviving pieces, giving (with the inscriptions that many carry) unparalleled insights into many aspects of Greek life. Sculptural or architectural pottery, also very often painted, are referred to as terracottas, and also survive in large quantities. In much of the literature, \"pottery\" means only painted vessels, or \"vases\". Pottery was the main form of grave goods deposited in tombs, often as \"funerary urns\" containing the cremated ashes, and was widely exported.\n\nThe famous and distinctive style of Greek vase-painting with figures depicted with strong outlines, with thin lines within the outlines, reached its peak from about 600 to 350 BC, and divides into the two main styles, almost reversals of each other, of black-figure and red-figure painting, the other colour forming the background in each case. Other colours were very limited, normally to small areas of white and larger ones of a different purplish-red. Within the restrictions of these techniques and other strong conventions, vase-painters achieved remarkable results, combining refinement and powerful expression. White ground technique allowed more freedom in depiction, but did not wear well and was mostly made for burial. \n\nConventionally, the ancient Greeks are said to have made most pottery vessels for everyday use, not for display. Exceptions are the large Archaic monumental vases made as grave-markers, trophies won at games, such as the Panathenaic Amphorae filled with olive oil, and pieces made specifically to be left in graves; some perfume bottles have a money-saving bottom just below the mouth, so a small quantity makes them appear full. In recent decades many scholars have questioned this, seeing much more production than was formerly thought as made to be placed in graves, as a cheaper substitute for metalware in both Greece and Etruria.\n\nMost surviving pottery consists of vessels for storing, serving or drinking liquids such as amphorae, kraters (bowls for mixing wine and water), hydria (water jars), libation bowls, oil and perfume bottles for the toilet, jugs and cups. Painted vessels for serving and eating food are much less common. Painted pottery was affordable even by ordinary people, and a piece \"decently decorated with about five or six figures cost about two or three days' wages\". Miniatures were also produced in large numbers, mainly for use as offerings at temples. In the Hellenistic period a wider range of pottery was produced, but most of it is of little artistic importance.\n\nIn earlier periods even quite small Greek cities produced pottery for their own locale. These varied widely in style and standards. Distinctive pottery that ranks as art was produced on some of the Aegean islands, in Crete, and in the wealthy Greek colonies of southern Italy and Sicily. By the later Archaic and early Classical period, however, the two great commercial powers, Corinth and Athens, came to dominate. Their pottery was exported all over the Greek world, driving out the local varieties. Pots from Corinth and Athens are found as far afield as Spain and Ukraine, and are so common in Italy that they were first collected in the 18th century as \"Etruscan vases\". Many of these pots are mass-produced products of low quality. In fact, by the 5th century BC, pottery had become an industry and pottery painting ceased to be an important art form.\n\nThe range of colours which could be used on pots was restricted by the technology of firing: black, white, red, and yellow were the most common. In the three earlier periods, the pots were left their natural light colour, and were decorated with slip that turned black in the kiln.\n\nGreek pottery is frequently signed, sometimes by the potter or the master of the pottery, but only occasionally by the painter. Hundreds of painters are, however, identifiable by their artistic personalities: where their signatures have not survived they are named for their subject choices, as \"the Achilles Painter\", by the potter they worked for, such as the Late Archaic \"Kleophrades Painter\", or even by their modern locations, such as the Late Archaic \"Berlin Painter\".\n\nThe history of ancient Greek pottery is divided stylistically into five periods:\n\n\nDuring the Protogeometric and Geometric periods, Greek pottery was decorated with abstract designs, in the former usually elegant and large, with plenty of unpainted space, but in the Geometric often densely covering most of the surface, as in the large pots by the Dipylon Master, who worked around 750. He and other potters around his time began to introduce very stylised silhouette figures of humans and animals, especially horses. These often represent funeral processions, or battles, presumably representing those fought by the deceased.\n\nThe Geometric phase was followed by an Orientalizing period in the late 8th century, when a few animals, many either mythical or not native to Greece (like the sphinx and lion respectively) were adapted from the Near East, accompanied by decorative motifs, such as the lotus and palmette. These were shown much larger than the previous figures. The Wild Goat Style is a regional variant, very often showing goats. Human figures were not so influenced from the East, but also became larger and more detailed.\n\nThe fully mature black-figure technique, with added red and white details and incising for outlines and details, originated in Corinth during the early 7th century BC and was introduced into Attica about a generation later; it flourished until the end of the 6th century BC. The red-figure technique, invented in about 530 BC, reversed this tradition, with the pots being painted black and the figures painted in red. Red-figure vases slowly replaced the black-figure style. Sometimes larger vessels were engraved as well as painted. Erotic themes, both heterosexual and male homosexual, became common. \n\nBy about 320 BC fine figurative vase-painting had ceased in Athens and other Greek centres, with the polychromatic Kerch style a final flourish; it was probably replaced by metalwork for most of its functions. West Slope Ware, with decorative motifs on a black glazed body, continued for over a century after. Italian red-figure painting ended by about 300, and in the next century the relatively primitive Hadra vases, probably from Crete, Centuripe ware from Sicily, and Panathenaic amphorae, now a frozen tradition, were the only large painted vases still made.\n\nFine metalwork was an important art in ancient Greece, but later production is very poorly represented by survivals, most of which come from the edges of the Greek world or beyond, from as far as France or Russia. Vessels and jewellery were produced to high standards, and exported far afield. Objects in silver, at the time worth more relative to gold than it is in modern times, were often inscribed by the maker with their weight, as they were treated largely as stores of value, and likely to be sold or re-melted before very long.\n\nDuring the Geometric and Archaic phases, the production of large metal vessels was an important expression of Greek creativity, and an important stage in the development of bronzeworking techniques, such as casting and repousse hammering. Early sanctuaries, especially Olympia, yielded many hundreds of tripod-bowl or sacrificial tripod vessels, mostly in bronze, deposited as votives. These had a shallow bowl with two handles raised high on three legs; in later versions the stand and bowl were different pieces. During the Orientalising period, such tripods were frequently decorated with figural protomes, in the shape of griffins, sphinxes and other fantastic creatures.\n\nSwords, the Greek helmet and often body armour such as the muscle cuirass were made of bronze, sometimes decorated in precious metal, as in the 3rd-century Ksour Essef cuirass. Armour and \"shield-bands\" are two of the contexts for strips of Archaic low relief scenes, which were also attached to various objects in wood; the band on the Vix Krater is a large example. Polished bronze mirrors, initially with decorated backs and kore handles, were another common item; the later \"folding mirror\" type had hinged cover pieces, often decorated with a relief scene, typically erotic. Coins are described below.\n\nFrom the late Archaic the best metalworking kept pace with stylistic developments in sculpture and the other arts, and Phidias is among the sculptors known to have practiced it. Hellenistic taste encouraged highly intricate displays of technical virtuousity, tending to \"cleverness, whimsy, or excessive elegance\". Many or most Greek pottery shapes were taken from shapes first used in metal, and in recent decades there has been an increasing view that much of the finest vase-painting reused designs by silversmiths for vessels with engraving and sections plated in a different metal, working from drawn designs.\n\nExceptional survivals of what may have been a relatively common class of large bronze vessels are two volute kraters, for mixing wine and water. These are the Vix Krater, c. 530 BC, 1.63m (5'4\") high and over 200 kg (450 lbs) in weight, holding some 1,100 litres, and found in the burial of a Celtic woman in modern France, and the 4th-century Derveni Krater, 90.5 cm (35 in.) high. The elites of other neighbours of the Greeks, such as the Thracians and Scythians, were keen consumers of Greek metalwork, and probably served by Greek goldsmiths settled in their territories, who adapted their products to suit local taste and functions. Such hybrid pieces form a large part of survivals, including the Panagyurishte Treasure, Borovo Treasure, and other Thracian treasures, and several Scythian burials, which probably contained work by Greek artists based in the Greek settlements on the Black Sea. As with other luxury arts, the Macedonian royal cemetery at Vergina has produced objects of top quality from the cusp of the Classical and Hellenistic periods.\n\nJewellery for the Greek market is often of superb quality, with one unusual form being intricate and very delicate gold wreathes imitating plant-forms, worn on the head. These were probably rarely, if ever, worn in life, but were given as votives and worn in death. Many of the Fayum mummy portraits wear them. Some pieces, especially in the Hellenistic period, are large enough to offer scope for figures, as did the Scythian taste for relatively substantial pieces in gold.\n\nThe Greeks decided very early on that the human form was the most important subject for artistic endeavour. Seeing their gods as having human form, there was little distinction between the sacred and the secular in art—the human body was both secular and sacred. A male nude of Apollo or Heracles had only slight differences in treatment to one of that year's Olympic boxing champion. In the Archaic Period the most important sculptural form was the kouros (plural \"kouroi\"), the standing male nude (See for example Biton and Kleobis). The kore (plural \"korai\"), or standing clothed female figure, was also common, but since Greek society did not permit the public display of female nudity until the 4th century BC, the kore is considered to be of less importance in the development of sculpture. By the end of the period architectural sculpture on temples was becoming important.\n\nAs with pottery, the Greeks did not produce sculpture merely for artistic display. Statues were commissioned either by aristocratic individuals or by the state, and used for public memorials, as offerings to temples, oracles and sanctuaries (as is frequently shown by inscriptions on the statues), or as markers for graves. Statues in the Archaic period were not all intended to represent specific individuals. They were depictions of an ideal—beauty, piety, honor or sacrifice. These were always depictions of young men, ranging in age from adolescence to early maturity, even when placed on the graves of (presumably) elderly citizens. \"Kouroi\" were all stylistically similar. Graduations in the social stature of the person commissioning the statue were indicated by size rather than artistic innovations.\n\nUnlike authors, those who practiced the visual arts, including sculpture, initially had a low social status in ancient Greece, though increasingly leading sculptors might become famous and rather wealthy, and often signed their work (unfortunately, often on the plinth, which typically became separated from the statue itself). Plutarch (\"Life of Pericles\", II) said \"we admire the work of art but despise the maker of it\"; this was a common view in the ancient world. Ancient Greek sculpture is categorised by the usual stylistic periods of \"Archaic\", \"Classical\" and \"Hellenistic\", augmented with some extra ones mainly applying to sculpture, such as the Orientalizing Daedelic style and the Severe style of early Classical sculpture.\n\nSurviving ancient Greek sculptures were mostly made of two types of material. Stone, especially marble or other high-quality limestones was used most frequently and carved by hand with metal tools. Stone sculptures could be free-standing fully carved in the round (statues), or only partially carved reliefs still attached to a background plaque, for example in architectural friezes or grave stelai.\n\nBronze statues were of higher status, but have survived in far smaller numbers, due to the reusability of metals. They were usually made in the lost wax technique. Chryselephantine, or gold-and-ivory, statues were the cult-images in temples and were regarded as the highest form of sculpture, but only some fragmentary pieces have survived. They were normally over-lifesize, built around a wooden frame, with thin carved slabs of ivory representing the flesh, and sheets of gold leaf, probably over wood, representing the garments, armour, hair, and other details. \n\nIn some cases, glass paste, glass, and precious and semi-precious stones were used for detail such as eyes, jewellery, and weaponry. Other large acrolithic statues used stone for the flesh parts, and wood for the rest, and marble statues sometimes had stucco hairstyles. Most sculpture was painted (see below), and much wore real jewellery and had inlaid eyes and other elements in different materials.\n\nTerracotta was occasionally employed, for large statuary. Few examples of this survived, at least partially due to the fragility of such statues. The best known exception to this is a statue of Zeus carrying Ganymede found at Olympia, executed around 470 BC. In this case, the terracotta is painted. There were undoubtedly sculptures purely in wood, which may have been very important in early periods, but effectively none have survived.\n\nBronze Age Cycladic art, to about 1100 BC, had already shown an unusual focus on the human figure, usually shown in a straightforward frontal standing position with arms folded across the stomach. Among the smaller features only noses, sometimes eyes, and female breasts were carved, though the figures were apparently usually painted and may have originally looked very different.\n\nInspired by the monumental stone sculpture of Egypt and Mesopotamia, during the Archaic period the Greeks began again to carve in stone. Free-standing figures share the solidity and frontal stance characteristic of Eastern models, but their forms are more dynamic than those of Egyptian sculpture, as for example the Lady of Auxerre and Torso of Hera (Early Archaic period, c. 660–580 BC, both in the Louvre, Paris). After about 575 BC, figures, such as these, both male and female, wore the so-called archaic smile. This expression, which has no specific appropriateness to the person or situation depicted, may have been a device to give the figures a distinctive human characteristic.\n\nThree types of figures prevailed—the standing nude youth (kouros), the standing draped girl (kore) and, less frequently, the seated woman. All emphasize and generalize the essential features of the human figure and show an increasingly accurate comprehension of human anatomy. The youths were either sepulchral or votive statues. Examples are Apollo (Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York), an early work; the Strangford Apollo from Anafi (British Museum, London), a much later work; and the Anavyssos Kouros (National Archaeological Museum of Athens). More of the musculature and skeletal structure is visible in this statue than in earlier works. The standing, draped girls have a wide range of expression, as in the sculptures in the Acropolis Museum of Athens. Their drapery is carved and painted with the delicacy and meticulousness common in the details of sculpture of this period.\n\nArchaic reliefs have survived from many tombs, and from larger buildings at Foce del Sele (now in the museum at Paestum) in Italy, with two groups of metope panels, from about 550 and 510, and the Siphnian Treasury at Delphi, with friezes and a small pediment. Parts, all now in local museums, survive of the large triangular pediment groups from the Temple of Artemis, Corfu (c. 580), dominated by a huge Gorgon, and the Old Temple of Athena in Athens (c. 530-500).\n\nIn the Classical period there was a revolution in Greek statuary, usually associated with the introduction of democracy and the end of the aristocratic culture associated with the \"kouroi\". The Classical period saw changes in the style and function of sculpture. Poses became more naturalistic (see the Charioteer of Delphi for an example of the transition to more naturalistic sculpture), and the technical skill of Greek sculptors in depicting the human form in a variety of poses greatly increased. From about 500 BC statues began to depict real people. The statues of Harmodius and Aristogeiton set up in Athens to mark the overthrow of the tyranny were said to be the first public monuments to actual people.\nAt the same time sculpture and statues were put to wider uses. The great temples of the Classical era such as the Parthenon in Athens, and the Temple of Zeus at Olympia, required relief sculpture for decorative friezes, and sculpture in the round to fill the triangular fields of the pediments. The difficult aesthetic and technical challenge stimulated much in the way of sculptural innovation. Unfortunately these works survive only in fragments, the most famous of which are the Parthenon Marbles, half of which are in the British Museum.\n\nFuneral statuary evolved during this period from the rigid and impersonal kouros of the Archaic period to the highly personal family groups of the Classical period. These monuments are commonly found in the suburbs of Athens, which in ancient times were cemeteries on the outskirts of the city. Although some of them depict \"ideal\" types—the mourning mother, the dutiful son—they increasingly depicted real people, typically showing the departed taking his dignified leave from his family. They are among the most intimate and affecting remains of the ancient Greeks.\n\nIn the Classical period for the first time we know the names of individual sculptors. Phidias oversaw the design and building of the Parthenon. Praxiteles made the female nude respectable for the first time in the Late Classical period (mid-4th century): his Aphrodite of Knidos, which survives in copies, was said by Pliny to be the greatest statue in the world.\n\nThe most famous works of the Classical period for contemporaries were the colossal Statue of Zeus at Olympia and the Statue of Athena Parthenos in the Parthenon. Both were chryselephantine and executed by Phidias or under his direction, and are now lost, although smaller copies (in other materials) and good descriptions of both still exist. Their size and magnificence prompted emperors to seize them in the Byzantine period, and both were removed to Constantinople, where they were later destroyed in fires.\n\nThe transition from the Classical to the Hellenistic period occurred during the 4th century BC. Following the conquests of Alexander the Great (336 BC to 323 BC), Greek culture spread as far as India, as revealed by the excavations of Ai-Khanoum in eastern Afghanistan, and the civilization of the Greco-Bactrians and the Indo-Greeks. Greco-Buddhist art represented a syncretism between Greek art and the visual expression of Buddhism. Thus Greek art became more diverse and more influenced by the cultures of the peoples drawn into the Greek orbit. \n\nIn the view of some art historians, it also declined in quality and originality. This, however, is a judgement which artists and art-lovers of the time would not have shared. Indeed, many sculptures previously considered as classical masterpieces are now recognised as being Hellenistic. The technical ability of Hellenistic sculptors is clearly in evidence in such major works as the Winged Victory of Samothrace, and the Pergamon Altar. New centres of Greek culture, particularly in sculpture, developed in Alexandria, Antioch, Pergamum, and other cities, where the new monarchies were lavish patrons. By the 2nd century the rising power of Rome had also absorbed much of the Greek tradition—and an increasing proportion of its products as well.\n\nDuring this period sculpture became more naturalistic, and also expressive; the interest in depicting extremes of emotion being sometimes pushed to extremes. Genre subjects of common people, women, children, animals and domestic scenes became acceptable subjects for sculpture, which was commissioned by wealthy families for the adornment of their homes and gardens; the \"Boy with Thorn\" is an example. Realistic portraits of men and women of all ages were produced, and sculptors no longer felt obliged to depict people as ideals of beauty or physical perfection. \n\nThe world of Dionysus, a pastoral idyll populated by satyrs, maenads, nymphs and sileni, had been often depicted in earlier vase painting and figurines, but rarely in full-size sculpture. Now such works were made, surviving in copies including the Barberini Faun, the Belvedere Torso, and the \"Resting Satyr\"; the Furietti Centaurs and \"Sleeping Hermaphroditus\" reflect related themes. At the same time, the new Hellenistic cities springing up all over Egypt, Syria, and Anatolia required statues depicting the gods and heroes of Greece for their temples and public places. This made sculpture, like pottery, an industry, with the consequent standardisation and some lowering of quality. For these reasons many more Hellenistic statues have survived than is the case with the Classical period.\n\nSome of the best known Hellenistic sculptures are the Winged Victory of Samothrace (2nd or 1st century BC), the statue of Aphrodite from the island of Melos known as the Venus de Milo (mid-2nd century BC), the Dying Gaul (about 230 BC), and the monumental group Laocoön and His Sons (late 1st century BC). All these statues depict Classical themes, but their treatment is far more sensuous and emotional than the austere taste of the Classical period would have allowed or its technical skills permitted.\n\nThe multi-figure group of statues was a Hellenistic innovation, probably of the 3rd century, taking the epic battles of earlier temple pediment reliefs off their walls, and placing them as life-size groups of statues. Their style is often called \"baroque\", with extravagantly contorted body poses, and intense expressions in the faces. The reliefs on the Pergamon Altar are the nearest original survivals, but several well known works are believed to be Roman copies of Hellenistic originals. These include the Dying Gaul and Ludovisi Gaul, as well as a less well known \"Kneeling Gaul\" and others, all believed to copy Pergamene commissions by Attalus I to commemorate his victory around 241 over the Gauls of Galatia, probably comprising two groups. \n\nThe \"Laocoön Group\", the \"Farnese Bull\", \"Menelaus supporting the body of Patroclus\" (\"Pasquino group\"), \"Arrotino\", and the Sperlonga sculptures, are other examples. From the 2nd century the Neo-Attic or Neo-Classical style is seen by different scholars as either a reaction to baroque excesses, returning to a version of Classical style, or as a continuation of the traditional style for cult statues. Workshops in the style became mainly producers of copies for the Roman market, which preferred copies of Classical rather than Hellenistic pieces.\n\nDiscoveries made since the end of the 19th century surrounding the (now submerged) ancient Egyptian city of Heracleum include a 4th-century BC, unusually sensual, detailed and feministic (as opposed to deified) depiction of Isis, marking a combination of Egyptian and Hellenistic forms beginning around the time of Egypt's conquest by Alexander the Great. However this was untypical of Ptolemaic court sculpture, which generally avoided mixing Egyptian styles with its fairly conventional Hellenistic style, while temples in the rest of the country continued using late versions of traditional Egyptian formulae. Scholars have proposed an \"Alexandrian style\" in Hellenistic sculpture, but there is in fact little to connect it with Alexandria.\n\nHellenistic sculpture was also marked by an increase in scale, which culminated in the Colossus of Rhodes (late 3rd century), which was the same size as the Statue of Liberty. The combined effect of earthquakes and looting have destroyed this as well as other very large works of this period.\n\nClay is a material frequently used for the making of votive statuettes or idols, even before the Minoan civilization and continuing until the Roman period. During the 8th century BC tombs in Boeotia often contain \"bell idols\", female statuettes with mobile legs: the head, small compared to the remainder of the body, is perched at the end of a long neck, while the body is very full, in the shape of a bell. Archaic heroon tombs, for local heroes, might receive large numbers of crudely-shaped figurines, with rudimentary figuration, generally representing characters with raised arms.\n\nBy the Hellenistic period most terracotta figurines have lost their religious nature, and represent characters from everyday life. Tanagra figurines, from one of several centres of production, are mass-manufactured using moulds, and then painted after firing. Dolls, figures of fashionably-dressed ladies and of actors, some of these probably portraits, were among the new subjects, depicted with a refined style. These were cheap, and initially displayed in the home much like modern ornamental figurines, but were quite often buried with their owners. At the same time, cities like Alexandria, Smyrna or Tarsus produced an abundance of grotesque figurines, representing individuals with deformed members, eyes bulging and contorting themselves. Such figurines were also made from bronze.\n\nFor painted architectural terracottas, see below.\n\nFigurines made of metal, primarily bronze, are an extremely common find at early Greek sanctuaries like Olympia, where thousands of such objects, mostly depicting animals, have been found. They are usually produced in the lost wax technique and can be considered the initials stage in the development of Greek bronze sculpture. The most common motifs during the Geometric period were horses and deer, but dogs, cattle and other animals are also depicted. Human figures occur occasionally. The production of small metal votives continued throughout Greek antiquity. In the Classical and Hellenistic periods, more elaborate bronze statuettes, closely connected with monumental sculpture, also became common. High quality examples were keenly collected by wealthy Greeks, and later Romans, but relatively few have survived.\n\nArchitecture (meaning buildings executed to an aesthetically considered design) ceased in Greece from the end of the Mycenaean period (about 1200 BC) until the 7th century, when urban life and prosperity recovered to a point where public building could be undertaken. Since most Greek buildings in the Archaic and Early Classical periods were made of wood or mud-brick, nothing remains of them except a few ground-plans, and there are almost no written sources on early architecture or descriptions of buildings. Most of our knowledge of Greek architecture comes from the surviving buildings of the Late Archaic, Classical, Hellenistic and Roman periods (since ancient Roman architecture heavily used Greek styles), and from late written sources such as Vitruvius (1st century BC). This means that there is a strong bias towards temples, the most common major buildings to survive. Here the squared blocks of stone used for walls were useful for later buildings, and so often all that survives are parts of columns and metopes that were harder to recycle.\n\nFor most of the period a strict stone post and lintel system of construction was used, held in place only by gravity. Corbelling was known in Mycenean Greece, and the arch was known from the 5th century at the latest, but hardly any use was made of these techniques until the Roman period. Wood was only used for ceilings and roof timbers in prestigious stone buildings. The use of large terracotta roof tiles, only held in place by grooving, meant that roofs needed to have a low pitch.\n\nUntil Hellenistic times only public buildings were built using the formal stone style; these included above all temples, and the smaller treasury buildings which often accompanied them, and were built at Delphi by many cities. Other building types, often not roofed, were the central agora, often with one or more colonnaded stoa around it, theatres, the gymnasium and palaestra or wrestling-school, the ekklesiasterion or bouleuterion for assemblies, and the propylaea or monumental gateways. Round buildings for various functions were called a tholos, and the largest stone structures were often defensive city walls. \n\nTombs were for most of the period only made as elaborate mausolea around the edges of the Greek world, especially in Anatolia. Private houses were built around a courtyard where funds allowed, and showed blank walls to the street. They sometimes had a second story, but very rarely basements. They were usually built of rubble at best, and relatively little is known about them; at least for males, much of life was spent outside them. A few palaces from the Hellenistic period have been excavated.\n\nTemples and some other buildings such as the treasuries at Delphi were planned as either a cube or, more often, a rectangle made from limestone, of which Greece has an abundance, and which was cut into large blocks and dressed. This was supplemented by columns, at least on the entrance front, and often on all sides. Other buildings were more flexible in plan, and even the wealthiest houses seem to have lacked much external ornament. Marble was an expensive building material in Greece: high quality marble came only from Mt Pentelus in Attica and from a few islands such as Paros, and its transportation in large blocks was difficult. It was used mainly for sculptural decoration, not structurally, except in the very grandest buildings of the Classical period such as the Parthenon in Athens.\n\nThere were two main classical orders of Greek architecture, the Doric and the Ionic, with the Corinthian order only appearing in the Classical period, and not becoming dominant until the Roman period. The most obvious features of the three orders are the capitals of the columns, but there are significant differences in other points of design and decoration between the orders. These names were used by the Greeks themselves, and reflected their belief that the styles descended from the Dorian and Ionian Greeks of the Dark Ages, but this is unlikely to be true. The Doric was the earliest, probably first appearing in stone in the earlier 7th century, having developed (though perhaps not very directly) from predecessors in wood. It was used in mainland Greece and the Greek colonies in Italy. The Ionic style was first used in the cities of Ionia (now the west coast of Turkey) and some of the Aegean islands, probably beginning in the 6th century. The Doric style was more formal and austere, the Ionic more relaxed and decorative. The more ornate Corinthian order was a later development of the Ionic, initially apparently only used inside buildings, and using Ionic forms for everything except the capitals. The famous and well-preserved Choragic Monument of Lysicrates near the Athens Acropolis (335/334) is the first known use of the Corinthian order on the exterior of a building.\n\nMost of the best known surviving Greek buildings, such as the Parthenon and the Temple of Hephaestus in Athens, are Doric. The Erechtheum, next to the Parthenon, however, is Ionic. The Ionic order became dominant in the Hellenistic period, since its more decorative style suited the aesthetic of the period better than the more restrained Doric. Some of the best surviving Hellenistic buildings, such as the Library of Celsus, can be seen in Turkey, at cities such as Ephesus and Pergamum. But in the greatest of Hellenistic cities, Alexandria in Egypt, almost nothing survives.\n\nCoins were (probably) invented in Lydia in the 7th century BC, but they were first extensively used by the Greeks, and the Greeks set the canon of coin design which has been followed ever since. Coin design today still recognisably follows patterns descended from ancient Greece. The Greeks did not see coin design as a major art form, although some were expensively designed by leading goldsmiths, especially outside Greece itself, among the Central Asian kingdoms and in Sicilian cities keen to promote themselves. Nevertheless, the durability and abundance of coins have made them one of the most important sources of knowledge about Greek aesthetics. Greek coins are the only art form from the ancient Greek world which can still be bought and owned by private collectors of modest means.\n\nThe most widespread coins, used far beyond their native territories and copied and forged by others, were the Athenian tetradrachm, issued from c. 510 to c. 38 BC, and in the Hellenistic age the Macedonian tetradrachm, both silver. These both kept the same familiar design for long periods. Greek designers began the practice of putting a profile portrait on the obverse of coins. This was initially a symbolic portrait of the patron god or goddess of the city issuing the coin: Athena for Athens, Apollo at Corinth, Demeter at Thebes and so on. Later, heads of heroes of Greek mythology were used, such as Heracles on the coins of Alexander the Great. \n\nThe first human portraits on coins were those of Achaemenid Empire Satraps in Asia Minor, starting with the exiled Athenian general Themistocles who became a Satrap of Magnesia circa 450 BC, and continuing especially with the dynasts of Lycia towards the end of the 5th century. Greek cities in Italy such as Syracuse began to put the heads of real people on coins in the 4th century BC, as did the Hellenistic successors of Alexander the Great in Egypt, Syria and elsewhere. On the reverse of their coins the Greek cities often put a symbol of the city: an owl for Athens, a dolphin for Syracuse and so on. The placing of inscriptions on coins also began in Greek times. All these customs were later continued by the Romans.\n\nThe most artistically ambitious coins, designed by goldsmiths or gem-engravers, were often from the edges of the Greek world, from new colonies in the early period and new kingdoms later, as a form of marketing their \"brands\" in modern terms. Of the larger cities, Corinth and Syracuse also issued consistently attractive coins. Some of the Greco-Bactrian coins are considered the finest examples of Greek coins with large portraits with \"a nice blend of realism and idealization\", including the largest coins to be minted in the Hellenistic world: the largest gold coin was minted by Eucratides (reigned 171–145 BC), the largest silver coin by the Indo-Greek king Amyntas Nikator (reigned c. 95–90 BC). The portraits \"show a degree of individuality never matched by the often bland depictions of their royal contemporaries further West\".\n\nThe Greeks seem to have valued painting above even sculpture, and by the Hellenistic period the informed appreciation and even the practice of painting were components in a gentlemanly education. The ekphrasis was a literary form consisting of a description of a work of art, and we have a considerable body of literature on Greek painting and painters, with further additions in Latin, though none of the treatises by artists that are mentioned have survived. Unfortunately we have hardly any of the most prestigious sort of paintings, on wood panel or in fresco, that this literature was concerned with. \n\nThe contrast with vase-painting is total. There are no mentions in literature at all, but over 100,000 surviving examples, giving many individual painters a respectable surviving oeuvre. Our idea of what the best Greek painting was like must be drawn from a careful consideration of parallels in vase-painting, late Greco-Roman copies in mosaic and fresco, some very late examples of actual painting in the Greek tradition, and the ancient literature.\n\nThere were several interconnected traditions of painting in ancient Greece. Due to their technical differences, they underwent somewhat differentiated developments. Early painting seems to have developed along similar lines to vase-painting, heavily reliant on outline and flat areas of colour, but then flowered and developed at the time that vase-painting went into decline. By the end of the Hellenistic period, technical developments included modelling to indicate contours in forms, shadows, foreshortening, some probably imprecise form of perspective, interior and landscape backgrounds, and the use of changing colours to suggest distance in landscapes, so that \"Greek artists had all the technical devices needed for fully illusionistic painting\".\n\nThe most common and respected form of art, according to authors like Pliny or Pausanias, were panel paintings, individual, portable paintings on wood boards. The techniques used were encaustic (wax) painting and tempera. Such paintings normally depicted figural scenes, including portraits and still-lifes; we have descriptions of many compositions. They were collected and often displayed in public spaces. Pausanias describes such exhibitions at Athens and Delphi. We know the names of many famous painters, mainly of the Classical and Hellenistic periods, from literature (see expandable list to the right). The most famous of all ancient Greek painters was Apelles of Kos, whom Pliny the Elder lauded as having \"surpassed all the other painters who either preceded or succeeded him.\"\n\nUnfortunately, due to the perishable nature of the materials used and the major upheavals at the end of antiquity, not one of the famous works of Greek panel painting has survived, nor even any of the copies that doubtlessly existed, and which give us most of our knowledge of Greek sculpture. We have slightly more significant survivals of mural compositions. The most important surviving Greek examples from before the Roman period are the fairly low-quality Pitsa panels from c. 530 BC, the Tomb of the Diver from Paestum, and various paintings from the royal tombs at Vergina. More numerous paintings in Etruscan and Campanian tombs are based on Greek styles. In the Roman period, there are a number of wall paintings in Pompeii and the surrounding area, as well as in Rome itself, some of which are thought to be copies of specific earlier masterpieces. \n\nIn particular copies of specific wall-paintings have been confidently identified in the Alexander Mosaic and Villa Boscoreale. There is a large group of much later Greco-Roman archaeological survivals from the dry conditions of Egypt, the Fayum mummy portraits, together with the similar Severan Tondo, and a small group of painted portrait miniatures in gold glass. Byzantine icons are also derived from the encaustic panel painting tradition, and Byzantine illuminated manuscripts sometimes continued a Greek illusionistic style for centuries.\nThe tradition of wall painting in Greece goes back at least to the Minoan and Mycenaean Bronze Age, with the lavish fresco decoration of sites like Knossos, Tiryns and Mycenae. It is not clear, whether there is any continuity between these antecedents and later Greek wall paintings.\n\nWall paintings are frequently described in Pausanias, and many appear to have been produced in the Classical and Hellenistic periods. Due to the lack of architecture surviving intact, not many are preserved. The most notable examples are a monumental Archaic 7th-century BC scene of hoplite combat from inside a temple at Kalapodi (near Thebes), and the elaborate frescoes from the 4th-century \"Grave of Phillipp\" and the \"Tomb of Persephone\" at Vergina in Macedonia, or the tomb at Agios Athanasios, Thessaloniki, sometimes suggested to be closely linked to the high-quality panel paintings mentioned above.\n\nGreek wall painting tradition is also reflected in contemporary grave decorations in the Greek colonies in Italy, e.g. the famous Tomb of the Diver at Paestum. Some scholars suggest that the celebrated Roman frescoes at sites like Pompeii are the direct descendants of Greek tradition, and that some of them copy famous panel paintings.\n\nMuch of the figural or architectural sculpture of ancient Greece was painted colourfully. This aspect of Greek stonework is described as polychrome (from Greek \"πολυχρωμία\", \"πολύ\" = many and \"χρώμα\" = colour). Due to intensive weathering, polychromy on sculpture and architecture has substantially or totally faded in most cases.\n\nAlthough the word \"polychrome\" is created from the combining of two Greek words, it was not used in ancient Greece. The term was coined in the early nineteenth century by Antoine Chrysostôme Quatremère de Quincy.\n\nPainting was also used to enhance the visual aspects of architecture. Certain parts of the superstructure of Greek temples were habitually painted since the Archaic period. Such architectural polychromy could take the form of bright colours directly applied to the stone (evidenced e.g. on the Parthenon, or of elaborate patterns, frequently architectural members made of terracotta (Archaic examples at Olympia and Delphi). Sometimes, the terracottas also depicted figural scenes, as do the 7th-century BC terracotta metopes from Thermon. \nMost Greek sculptures were painted in strong and bright colors; this is called \"polychromy\". The paint was frequently limited to parts depicting clothing, hair, and so on, with the skin left in the natural color of the stone or bronze, but it could also cover sculptures in their totality; female skin in marble tended to be uncoloured, while male skin might be a light brown. The painting of Greek sculpture should not merely be seen as an enhancement of their sculpted form, but has the characteristics of a distinct style of art.\n\nFor example, the pedimental sculptures from the Temple of Aphaia on Aegina have recently been demonstrated to have been painted with bold and elaborate patterns, depicting, amongst other details, patterned clothing. The polychromy of stone statues was paralleled by the use of different materials to distinguish skin, clothing and other details in chryselephantine sculptures, and by the use of different metals to depict lips, fingernails, etc. on high-quality bronzes like the Riace bronzes.\n\nThe most copious evidence of ancient Greek painting survives in the form of vase paintings. These are described in the \"pottery\" section above. They give at least some sense of the aesthetics of Greek painting. The techniques involved, however, were very different from those used in large-format painting. The same probably applies to the subject matter depicted. It should be noted that strictly speaking, vase painting was a separate skill or art from potting. It should also be kept in mind that vase painting, albeit by far the most conspicuous surviving source on ancient Greek painting, was not held in the highest regard in antiquity, and is never mentioned in Classical literature.\n\nMosaics were initially made with rounded pebbles, and later glass with tesserae which gave more colour and a flat surface. They were popular in the Hellenistic period, at first as decoration for the floors of palaces, but eventually for private homes. Often a central \"emblema\" picture in a central panel was completed in much finer work than the surrounding decoration. Xenia motifs, where a house showed examples of the variety of foods guests might expect to enjoy, provide most of the surviving specimens of Greek still-life. In general mosaic must be considered as a secondary medium copying painting, often very directly, as in the Alexander Mosaic. \n\nThe \"Unswept Floor\" by Sosus of Pergamon (c. 200 BC) was an original and famous \"trompe l'oeil\" piece, known from many Greco-Roman copies. According to John Boardman, Sosus is the only mosaic artist whose name has survived; his \"Doves\" are also mentioned in literature and copied. However, Katherine M. D. Dunbabin asserts that two different mosaic artists left their signatures on mosaics of Delos. The artist of the 4th-century BC Stag Hunt Mosaic perhaps also left his signature as Gnosis, although this word may be a reference to the abstract concept of knowledge.\n\nMosaics are a significant element of surviving Macedonian art, with a large number of examples preserved in the ruins of Pella, the ancient Macedonian capital, in today's Central Macedonia. Mosaics such as the \"Stag Hunt Mosaic and Lion Hunt\" mosaic demonstrate illusionist and three dimensional qualities generally found in Hellenistic paintings, although the rustic Macedonian pursuit of hunting is markedly more pronounced than other themes. The 2nd-century-BC mosaics of Delos, Greece were judged by François Chamoux as representing the pinnacle of Hellenistic mosaic art, with similar styles that continued throughout the Roman period and perhaps laid the foundations for the widespread use of mosaics in the Western world through to the Middle Ages. \n\nThe engraved gem was a luxury art with high prestige; Pompey and Julius Caesar were among later collectors. The technique has an ancient tradition in the Near East, and cylinder seals, whose design only appears when rolled over damp clay, from which the flat ring type developed, spread to the Minoan world, including parts of Greece and Cyprus. The Greek tradition emerged under Minoan influence on mainland Helladic culture, and reached an apogee of subtlety and refinement in the Hellenistic period.\n\nRound or oval Greek gems (along with similar objects in bone and ivory) are found from the 8th and 7th centuries BC, usually with animals in energetic geometric poses, often with a border marked by dots or a rim. Early examples are mostly in softer stones. Gems of the 6th century are more often oval, with a scarab back (in the past this type was called a \"scarabaeus\"), and human or divine figures as well as animals; the scarab form was apparently adopted from Phoenicia. \n\nThe forms are sophisticated for the period, despite the usually small size of the gems. In the 5th century gems became somewhat larger, but still only 2–3 centimetres tall. Despite this, very fine detail is shown, including the eyelashes on one male head, perhaps a portrait. Four gems signed by Dexamenos of Chios are the finest of the period, two showing herons.\n\nRelief carving became common in 5th century BC Greece, and gradually most of the spectacular carved gems were in relief. Generally a relief image is more impressive than an intaglio one; in the earlier form the recipient of a document saw this in the impressed sealing wax, while in the later reliefs it was the owner of the seal who kept it for himself, probably marking the emergence of gems meant to be collected or worn as jewellery pendants in necklaces and the like, rather than used as seals – later ones are sometimes rather large to use to seal letters. However inscriptions are usually still in reverse (\"mirror-writing\") so they only read correctly on impressions (or by viewing from behind with transparent stones). This aspect also partly explains the collecting of impressions in plaster or wax from gems, which may be easier to appreciate than the original.\n\nLarger hardstone carvings and cameos, which are rare in intaglio form, seem to have reached Greece around the 3rd century; the Farnese Tazza is the only major surviving Hellenistic example (depending on the dates assigned to the Gonzaga Cameo and the Cup of the Ptolemies), but other glass-paste imitations with portraits suggest that gem-type cameos were made in this period. The conquests of Alexander had opened up new trade routes to the Greek world and increased the range of gemstones available.\n\nThe synthesis in the Archaic period of the native repertoire of simple geometric motifs with imported, mostly plant-based, motifs from further east created a sizeable vocabulary of ornament, which artists and craftsmen used with confidence and fluency. Today this vocabulary is seen above all in the large corpus of painted pottery, as well as in architectural remains, but it would have originally been used in a wide range of media, as a later version of it is used in European Neoclassicism.\n\nElements in this vocabulary include the geometrical meander or \"Greek key\", egg-and-dart, bead and reel, Vitruvian scroll, guilloche, and from the plant world the stylized acanthus leaves, volute, palmette and half-palmette, plant scrolls of various kinds, rosette, lotus flower, and papyrus flower. Originally used prominently on Archaic vases, as figurative painting developed these were usually relegated to serve as borders demarcating edges of the vase or different zones of decoration. Greek architecture was notable for developing sophisticated conventions for using mouldings and other architectural ornamental elements, which used these motifs in a harmoniously integrated whole.\n\nEven before the Classical period, this vocabulary had influenced Celtic art, and the expansion of the Greek world after Alexander, and the export of Greek objects still further afield, exposed much of Eurasia to it, including the regions in the north of the Indian subcontinent where Buddhism was expanding, and creating Greco-Buddhist art. As Buddhism spread across Central Asia to China and the rest of East Asia, in a form that made great use of religious art, versions of this vocabulary were taken with it and used to surround images of buddhas and other religious images, often with a size and emphasis that would have seemed excessive to the ancient Greeks. The vocabulary was absorbed into the ornament of India, China, Persia and other Asian countries, as well as developing further in Byzantine art. The Romans took over the vocabulary more or less in its entirety, and although much altered, it can be traced throughout European medieval art, especially in plant-based ornament.\n\nIslamic art, where ornament largely replaces figuration, developed the Byzantine plant scroll into the full, endless arabesque, and especially from the Mongol conquests of the 14th century received new influences from China, including the descendents of the Greek vocabulary. From the Renaissance onwards, several of these Asian styles were represented on textiles, porcelain and other goods imported into Europe, and influenced ornament there, a process that still continues.\n\nAlthough glass was made in Cyprus by the 9th century BC, and was considerably developed by the end of the period, there are only a few survivals of glasswork from before the Greco-Roman period that show the artistic quality of the best work. Most survivals are small perfume bottles, in fancy coloured \"feathered\" styles similar to other Mediterranean glass. Hellenistic glass became cheaper and accessible to a wider population.\n\nNo Greek furniture has survived, but there are many images of it on vases and memorial reliefs, for example that to Hegeso. It was evidently often very elegant, as were the styles derived from it from the 18th century onwards. Some pieces of carved ivory that were used as inlays have survived, as at Vergina, and a few ivory carvings; this was a luxury art that could be of very fine quality.\n\nIt is clear from vase paintings that the Greeks often wore elaborately patterned clothes, and skill at weaving was the mark of the respectable woman. Two luxurious pieces of cloth survive, from the tomb of Philip of Macedon. There are numerous references to decorative hangings for both homes and temples, but none of these have survived.\n\nAncient Greek art has exercised considerable influence on the culture of many countries all over the world, above all in its treatment of the human figure. In the West Greek architecture was also hugely influential, and in both East and West the influence of Greek decoration can be traced to the modern day. Etruscan and Roman art were largely and directly derived from Greek models, and Greek objects and influence reached into Celtic art north of the Alps, as well as all around the Mediterranean world and into Persia.\n\nIn the East, Alexander the Great's conquests initiated several centuries of exchange between Greek, Central Asian and Indian cultures, which was greatly aided by the spread of Buddhism, which early on picked up many Greek traits and motifs in Greco-Buddhist art, which were then transmitted as part of a cultural package to East Asia, even as far as Japan, among artists who were no doubt completely unaware of the origin of the motifs and styles they used.\n\nFollowing the Renaissance in Europe, the humanist aesthetic and the high technical standards of Greek art inspired generations of European artists, with a major revival in the movement of Neoclassicism which began in the mid-18th century, coinciding with easier access from Western Europe to Greece itself, and a renewed importation of Greek originals, most notoriously the Elgin Marbles from the Parthenon. Well into the 19th century, the classical tradition derived from Greece dominated the art of the western world.\n\nThe Hellenized Roman upper classes of the Late Republic and Early Empire generally accepted Greek superiority in the arts without many quibbles, though the praise of Pliny for the sculpture and painting of pre-Hellenistic artists may be based on earlier Greek writings rather than much personal knowledge. Pliny and other classical authors were known in the Renaissance, and this assumption of Greek superiority was again generally accepted. However critics in the Renaissance and much later were unclear which works were actually Greek.\n\nDue to Ottoman Empire occupation, Greece itself could only be reached by a very few western Europeans until the mid-18th century. Not only the Greek vases found in the Etruscan cemeteries, but also (more controversially) the Greek temples of Paestum were taken to be Etruscan, or otherwise Italic, until the late 18th century and beyond, a misconception prolonged by Italian nationalist sentiment.\n\nThe writings of Johann Joachim Winckelmann, especially his books \"Thoughts on the Imitation of Greek Works in Painting and Sculpture\" (1750) and \"Geschichte der Kunst des Alterthums\" (\"History of Ancient Art\", 1764) were the first to distinguish sharply between ancient Greek, Etruscan, and Roman art, and define periods within Greek art, tracing a trajectory from growth to maturity and then imitation or decadence that continues to have influence to the present day.\n\nThe full disentangling of Greek statues from their later Roman copies, and a better understanding of the balance between Greekness and Roman-ness in Greco-Roman art was to take much longer, and perhaps still continues. Greek art, especially sculpture, continued to enjoy an enormous reputation, and studying and copying it was a large part of the training of artists, until the downfall of Academic art in the late 19th century. During this period, the actual known corpus of Greek art, and to a lesser extent architecture, has greatly expanded. The study of vases developed an enormous literature in the late 19th and 20th centuries, much based on the identification of the hands of individual artists, with Sir John Beazley the leading figure. This literature generally assumed that vase-painting represented the development of an independent medium, only in general terms drawing from stylistic development in other artistic media. This assumption has been increasingly challenged in recent decades, and some scholars now see it as a secondary medium, largely representing cheap copies of now lost metalwork, and much of it made, not for ordinary use, but to deposit in burials.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35149722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35149722", "title": "Anne Foster", "text": "Anne Foster\n\nAnne Foster is a fictional character from the ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", played by Gwen Taylor. Anne is the mother of Frank Foster (Andrew Lancel) and wife of Sam Foster (Paul Clayton). The character and casting was announced on 4 August 2011. Taylor revealed she had found her first day on set \"terrifying\", but she quickly settled in. A reporter for the \"Western Mail\" branded Anne a \"pompous matriarch\". Taylor said that after being revealed as Frank's killer, she fears that she will be hated in real life. She also admitted that she only knew the identity of Frank's killer when Lancel revealed it to her during filming and added that she loved filming her scenes as Anne. Taylor made her first appearance as Anne on 4 September 2011. She was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum of 15 years in prison and made her last appearance on 19 March 2012.\n\nAnne and Sam arrive to celebrate Frank's engagement to Carla Connor (Alison King). Following a car accident involving Frank and Carla, Anne and Sam go to the hospital to check Frank and Carla are okay.\n\nAnne later returns to tells Carla that she will be taking over Frank's share of the business until Frank is cleared of raping Carla. Anne joins Frank at his new factory and is very pleased to hear that Carla has had a meltdown and fired the workers. Michelle Connor (Kym Marsh) hears what Frank has done to Carla and goes to Frank's factory to bring everyone back to work at Underworld, angering Anne. Anne tries to persuade Carla to drop the charges in exchange for Frank's share of Underworld but Carla refuses and throws her out of her home. Anne goes on a cruise with Sam and a couple of days later she phones Frank and tells him his father has died. Anne comes home and initially struggles with her grief, blaming Carla for Sam's death and confronts her at the factory. Anne returns to work with Frank and Sally Webster (Sally Dynevor) and they return to Underworld, alongside Carla and Michelle. Anne later learns that Frank is having an affair with Jenny Sumner (Niky Wardley) behind Sally's back and tells her so Frank then fires Anne and tells her to go home.\n\nAnne is devastated when Frank is found dead in the factory. She sees Frank's body being removed from Underworld and tells the police that she believes Carla killed Frank. She later notices the contract that gave Frank full ownership of Underworld is missing and accuses Carla of stealing it. Sally realises Frank's watch is missing and Anne assures her she will tell the police. Anne attends Frank's funeral with Sally and apologises to Carla, which Carla finds suspicious. She later goes home alone and Sally visits her. She sees that Anne has Frank's watch and assumes that the police have returned it until Anne admits that she has had it all along. Sally realises that Anne killed Frank and tries to leave but trips and hits her head. Anne, however, calmly continues packing her bags until Carla arrives, wanting to know why Anne apologised earlier. Carla finds Sally and goes to call an ambulance, but Anne threatens her with a knife. Anne explains that she blamed Frank for Sam's death after overhearing Frank goading Carla about the rape. She went to the factory to get his watch back, but she struggles with Frank for it. When he pushed her away, she picked up a whiskey bottle and hit him. Carla then talks Anne into dropping the knife and she is later arrested.\n\nAnne made her first on screen appearance on 4 September 2011. The character and casting was announced on 4 August 2011. Taylor revealed she had found her first day on set \"terrifying\", but she quickly settled in. Anne was married to Sam Foster (Paul Clayton) and is the mother of Frank (Andrew Lancel). Of Anne and Sam, a show spokesperson said \"Sam and Anne are pretty full -on characters, like Frank. No sooner have they arrived than they're talking grandchildren which instantly freaks Carla out and tensions soon rise.\"\n\nTaylor admitted in March 2012 that adjusting to the tight soap schedule was a challenge. Taylor said she was impressed with the acting skills of the regular cast, especially the one with children. She commented: \"I'm going to remember the commitment that everyone had for the work. A lot of the women there had babies and young children, but everyone turned up on time and knew their lines - and I was so impressed by that.\" When signing to play Anne, Taylor had no idea that she would be playing a killer. The actress departed from \"Coronation Street\" in March 2012, after the conclusion to Frank's murder storyline.\n\nAfter Frank's fiancé, Carla Connor (Alison King), accuses him of raping her and calls off the wedding, Anne supports her son. She installs herself at Underworld to protect Frank's half of the business and makes Carla's life a misery. Of Anne's support for Frank, Taylor said \"In Anne's eyes, Frank can do no wrong. She'll do whatever it takes to protect him. If he tells her he didn't do it, then he didn't do it. There are plenty of mums out there like that. When the recent riots happened, some women refused point blank to believe their children had been involved. So mums can be a pretty loyal bunch, for good or ill.\"\n\nIn January 2012, it was announced that Frank would be killed in an upcoming \"whodunnit\" storyline. A reporter for the \"Metro\" later announced that five regular characters would become suspects during the investigation into Frank's murder. Frank was found dead on the floor of the Underworld factory by Sally Webster (Sally Dynevor). The \"Metro\" reporter said Sally comes under suspicion when she is found standing over Frank's body with bloodied hands. Carla, Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne) and Michelle Connor (Kym Marsh) are questioned by the police, while Sally's ex-husband, Kevin (Michael Le Vell), also fell under suspicion. Anne was not listed among the characters, but Sarah Ellis of \"Inside Soap\" included Anne as an additional suspect during a feature on Frank's death. Ellis stated that Anne develops a motive for killing Frank after she discovers his true colours, despite believing he could do no wrong. Anne was devastated as she realised that she had got her son so wrong. Ellis pointed out that Anne played every inch the grieving mother and by blaming other people for her son's death, she could have been covering her own tracks. Ellis added that it must have been painful for Anne to realise that she had raised a monster, so maybe she decided to get rid of him. Taylor said that after being revealed as Frank's killer, she feared that she would be hated in real life. Speaking to a reporter for \"TV Biz\" Taylor said that Anne had been the nastiest character she ever played. Taylor quipped that Anne had been very unkind and cruel towards Sally after she is revealed as killed Frank's killer. She added \"I hoped I'd get to play a character this evil one day. They are always more interesting and I'd like to do it again. It's nice to play someone with no redeeming features. You have to find out why people are like this.\" Numerous viewers correctly guessed that Anne was Frank's murderer, including singer Cheryl Cole. During an interview with Lancel, which was broadcast on \"Radio City\", Taylor admitted that while people had suspected her, she thought it would be a surprise when she was revealed to be Frank's killer.\n\nTaylor also revealed people had also confronted her in public, having recognised her from the soap. Taylor admitted that she only knew the identity of Frank's killer when Lancel revealed it to her during filming. She explained \"It was strange, because I didn't know when I signed on that it was going to develop so brilliantly. But a little while after, Andrew was telling me that he was leaving at a certain point.\" Taylor also said she loved filming her \"showdown\" with Carla when she tries to call emergency services. Speaking of Anne's situation, Taylor said \"A lot has happened to the poor woman, she's lost her husband then her son and stuck to her guns about his innocence. Then she begins to realise something is very wrong. The humiliation of that, and the fact she has been so horrible to people, is too much for her to live with. It turns her funny.\" 10.2 million viewers saw Anne reveal herself as Frank's killer. Lancel said that he enjoyed watching the revelation of his character's killer. Speaking of the secrecy of the plot, Lancel said he and Taylor lied to everyone and they were relieved when the truth came out. Taylor joked that \"she may need a bodyguard\" after viewers saw Anne's twisted side. She also said that it was draining playing Anne but also brilliant.\n\nThe \"Daily Mail's\" Jaci Stephen said \"Frank's mother, Anne, has also been a great addition to the cast, even though she has recovered from the sudden death of her husband with remarkable speed.\" A reporter for the \"Western Mail\" branded Anne a \"pompous matriarch\". Tony Stewart of the \"Daily Mirror\" called Anne a \"loyal mum\". Jon Wise of \"The People\" believed the show made viewers \"empathise deeply\" with Anne following Frank's death, while the \"Daily Mirror's\" Kevin O'Sullivan said Anne was \"theatrically distraught\" when she discovered her son was dead.\n\n"}
{"id": "25797440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25797440", "title": "Apple doll", "text": "Apple doll\n\nAn apple doll is a North American cultural phenomenon where the doll's head is made from dried apples. The apple is peeled, then carved with the facial features of the doll. Next the apple is left to dry for several days or weeks. When completely dry, the apple is positioned on the top of a wire frame which is shaped into the rest of the doll's body. The rest of the wire frame is covered up by the doll's clothing, which is usually sewn by hand. In modern times, apple dolls are mostly used as decorations or to display craftsmanship, rather than as children's toys. Because of the different effects drying produces, no two dolls are alike.\n"}
{"id": "3680256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3680256", "title": "Artforum", "text": "Artforum\n\nArtforum is an international monthly magazine specializing in contemporary art. \n\nThe magazine is published ten times a year, September through May, along with an annual summer issue. Distinguished by its 10½ inch square format, with each cover devoted to the work of a single artist, the magazine is widely acknowledged as a decisive voice in its field.\n\nThe magazine features in-depth articles and reviews of contemporary art, as well as book reviews, columns on cinema and popular culture, and numerous full-page advertisements from prominent galleries around the world.\n\n\"Artforum\" was founded in 1962 in San Francisco by John P. Irwin, Jr. The next publisher/owner Charles Cowles moved the magazine to Los Angeles in 1965 before finally settling it in New York City in 1967, where it maintains offices today. The move to New York also encompassed a shift in the style of work championed by the magazine, moving away from California style art to late modernism, then the leading style of art in New York City. The departure of Philip Leider as editor-in-chief in 1971 and the tenure of John Coplans as the new editor-in-chief roughly coincided with a shift towards more fashionable trends and away from late modernism. A focus on minimal art, conceptual art, body art, land art and performance art provided a platform for artists such as Robert Smithson, Donald Judd, Sol LeWitt and others. In 1980, after opening his own gallery in New York City, Charles Cowles divested himself of the magazine. A sister magazine, \"Bookforum\", was started in 1994.\n\nIn October 2017, publisher Knight Landesman resigned in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct with nine women including a former employee who filed a lawsuit. \"Artforum\" initially backed Landesman, saying the allegations were \"unfounded\" and suggested that lawsuit was “an attempt to exploit a relationship that she herself worked hard to create and maintain.” The magazine's editor Michelle Kuo resigned in response to the publishers' handling of the allegations. \"Artforum\" staff released a statement condemning the way the publishers had handled the allegations.\n\nA book by Amy Newman chronicling the early history of the magazine, \"Challenging Art: Artforum 1962–1974\", was published by Soho Press in 2000.\n\nSarah Thornton's documentary book \"Seven Days in the Art World\" (2008) contains a chapter titled \"The Magazine\" which is set in the offices of \"Artforum\". In it, Thornton says, \"Artforum is to art what Vogue is to fashion and Rolling Stone was to rock and roll. It’s a trade magazine with crossover cachet and an institution with controversial clout.\" \n\n(Philip Leider left the magazine at the end of the Summer 1971 issue, but remained on the masthead until December 1971)\n\n"}
{"id": "52949123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949123", "title": "Bats at 37 Military Hospital", "text": "Bats at 37 Military Hospital\n\nThe bats at the 37 military hospital are a colony of an estimated 1 million straw-coloured fruit bats living in the 37 Military Hospital area of Accra, the capital of Ghana. A local legend surrounds this group of animals, saying that a long time ago, a chief from a village in eastern Ghana Kibi was admitted to the hospital accompanied by megabats. He died but the bats are still waiting for him to come home.\n\n"}
{"id": "915133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=915133", "title": "Bayfordbury", "text": "Bayfordbury\n\nBayfordbury, Hertfordshire, is the location of a large Grade II* listed country house with surrounding parkland, and the location of a University of Hertfordshire campus, housing its biology/geography field station and observatory. \n\nBayfordbury House was originally built between 1759 and 1762 for well-to-do London merchant Sir William Baker. It was upgraded to its present appearance by his son, also William Baker between 1809 and 1812. After the death of Admiral Sir Lewis Clinton-Baker in 1940, the estate was leased to the Dr Barnardo's charity.\n\nThe 372-acre Bayfordbury estate was then bought by the John Innes Centre in 1948 and developed into a School of Cytology. A new Cell Biology building was built in 1959, later to become the Science Learning Centre. In 1967 the John Innes Centre moved to its present site in Norwich and the Bayfordbury estate was bought by the Hertfordshire Council in 1967 for the use of Hatfield Polytechnic. \n\nIn 1969 the Bayfordbury Observatory was established within the grounds of the house by Hatfield Polytechnic (now the University of Hertfordshire). This is the University's astronomical and atmospheric physics remote sensing observatory, one of the largest teaching astronomical observatories in the UK. \n\nIn 2005 the Regional Science Learning Centre was set up at Bayfordbury to run courses that provide continuing professional development for anyone involved in the teaching of science.\nThe Science Learning Centre has close ties with the nearby observatory and hosts activities during its astronomy open evenings such as planetarium shows and talks. The building also hosts some of the observatory's scientific instruments on its roof.\n\nThe University of Hertfordshire uses the site as its biology and geography field station. The university owns a number of Bayfordbury's woodlands and meadows including the Clinton-Baker Pinetum, Sailor's Grove and Hook's Grove.\nThe lake at Bayfordbury was created by the Baker family in 1772 and is now managed for its newts, crayfish and pure genetic stock of Crucian carp.\nThe site also houses five large glasshouses, used for plant and aquatic research.\n\nThe Clinton-Baker Pinetum is a 10-acre pinetum containing over 150 species of conifers from all over the world, many over 100 years old. The first conifers were planted in 1767 by Sir William Baker, the original owner of the mansion.\n\n"}
{"id": "4035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4035", "title": "Black", "text": "Black\n\nBlack is the darkest color, the result of the absence or complete absorption of visible light. It is an achromatic color, literally a color without hue, like white and gray. It is often used symbolically or figuratively to represent darkness, while white represents light.\n\nBlack ink is the most common color used for printing books, newspapers and documents, because it has the highest contrast with white paper and is the easiest to read. For the same reason, black text on a white screen is the most common format used on computer screens.\nIn color printing it is used along with the subtractive primaries cyan, yellow, and magenta, in order to help produce the darkest colors.\n\nBlack and white have often been used to describe opposites; particularly truth and ignorance, good and evil, the Dark Ages versus Age of Enlightenment. Since the Middle Ages, black has been the symbolic color of solemnity and authority, and for this reason is still commonly worn by judges and magistrates.\n\nBlack was one of the first colors used by artists in neolithic cave paintings. In the 14th century, it began to be worn by royalty, the clergy, judges and government officials in much of Europe. It became the color worn by English romantic poets, businessmen and statesmen in the 19th century, and a high fashion color in the 20th century.\n\nIn the Roman Empire, it became the color of mourning, and over the centuries it was frequently associated with death, evil, witches and magic. According to surveys in Europe and North America, it is the color most commonly associated with mourning, the end, secrets, magic, force, violence, evil, and elegance.\nThe word \"black\" comes from Old English \"blæc\" (\"black, dark\", \"also\", \"ink\"), from Proto-Germanic *\"blakkaz\" (\"burned\"), from Proto-Indo-European *\"bhleg-\" (\"to burn, gleam, shine, flash\"), from base *\"bhel-\" (\"to shine\"), related to Old Saxon \"blak\" (\"ink\"), Old High German \"blach\" (\"black\"), Old Norse \"blakkr\" (\"dark\"), Dutch \"blaken\" (\"to burn\"), and Swedish \"bläck\" (\"ink\"). More distant cognates include Latin \"flagrare\" (\"to blaze, glow, burn\"), and Ancient Greek \"phlegein\" (\"to burn, scorch\").\n\nThe Ancient Greeks sometimes used the same word to name different colors, if they had the same intensity. \"Kuanos\"' could mean both dark blue and black.\n\nThe Ancient Romans had two words for black: \"ater\" was a flat, dull black, while \"niger\" was a brilliant, saturated black. \"Ater\" has vanished from the vocabulary, but \"niger\" was the source of the country name \"Nigeria\" the English word \"Negro\" and the word for \"black\" in most modern Romance languages (French: \"noir\"; Spanish and Portuguese: \"negro\"; Italian: \"nero\" ).\n\nOld High German also had two words for black: \"swartz\" for dull black and \"blach\" for a luminous black. These are parallelled in Middle English by the terms \"swart\" for dull black and \"blaek\" for luminous black. \"Swart\" still survives as the word \"swarthy\", while \"blaek\" became the modern English \"black\".\n\nIn heraldry, the word used for the black color is sable, named for the black fur of the sable, an animal.\n\nBlack was one of the first colors used in art. The Lascaux Cave in France contains drawings of bulls and other animals drawn by paleolithic artists between 18,000 and 17,000 years ago. They began by using charcoal, and then made more vivid black pigments by burning bones or grinding a powder of manganese oxide.\n\nFor the ancient Egyptians, black had positive associations; being the color of fertility and the rich black soil flooded by the Nile. It was the color of Anubis, the god of the underworld, who took the form of a black jackal, and offered protection against evil to the dead.\n\nFor the ancient Greeks, black was also the color of the underworld, separated from the world of the living by the river Acheron, whose water was black. Those who had committed the worst sins were sent to Tartarus, the deepest and darkest level. In the center was the palace of Hades, the king of the underworld, where he was seated upon a black ebony throne.\n\nBlack was one of the most important colors used by ancient Greek artists. In the 6th century BC, they began making black-figure pottery and later red figure pottery, using a highly original technique. In black-figure pottery, the artist would paint figures with a glossy clay slip on a red clay pot. When the pot was fired, the figures painted with the slip would turn black, against a red background. Later they reversed the process, painting the spaces between the figures with slip. This created magnificent red figures against a glossy black background.\n\nIn the social hierarchy of ancient Rome, purple was the color reserved for the Emperor; red was the color worn by soldiers (red cloaks for the officers, red tunics for the soldiers); white the color worn by the priests, and black was worn by craftsmen and artisans. The black they wore was not deep and rich; the vegetable dyes used to make black were not solid or lasting, so the blacks often turned out faded gray or brown.\n\nIn Latin, the word for black, \"ater\" and to darken, \"atere\", were associated with cruelty, brutality and evil. They were the root of the English words \"atrocious\" and \"atrocity\".\n\nBlack was also the Roman color of death and mourning. In the 2nd century BC Roman magistrates began to wear a dark toga, called a \"toga pulla\", to funeral ceremonies. Later, under the Empire, the family of the deceased also wore dark colors for a long period; then, after a banquet to mark the end of mourning, exchanged the black for a white toga. In Roman poetry, death was called the \"hora nigra\", the black hour.\n\nThe German and Scandinavian peoples worshipped their own goddess of the night, Nótt, who crossed the sky in a chariot drawn by a black horse. They also feared Hel, the goddess of the kingdom of the dead, whose skin was black on one side and red on the other. They also held sacred the raven. They believed that Odin, the king of the Nordic pantheon, had two black ravens, Huginn and Muninn, who served as his agents, traveling the world for him, watching and listening.\nIn the early Middle Ages, black was commonly associated with darkness and evil. In Medieval paintings, the devil was usually depicted as having human form, but with wings and black skin or hair.\n\nIn fashion, black did not have the prestige of red, the color of the nobility. It was worn by Benedictine monks as a sign of humility and penitence. In the 12th century a famous theological dispute broke out between the Cistercian monks, who wore white, and the Benedictines, who wore black. A Benedictine abbot, Pierre the Venerable, accused the Cistercians of excessive pride in wearing white instead of black. Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, the founder of the Cistercians responded that black was the color of the devil, hell, \"of death and sin,\" while white represented \"purity, innocence and all the virtues\".\n\nBlack symbolized both power and secrecy in the medieval world. The emblem of the Holy Roman Empire of Germany was a black eagle. The black knight in the poetry of the Middle Ages was an enigmatic figure, hiding his identity, usually wrapped in secrecy.\n\nBlack ink, invented in China, was traditionally used in the Middle Ages for writing, for the simple reason that black was the darkest color and therefore provided the greatest contrast with white paper or parchment, making it the easiest color to read. It became even more important in the 15th century, with the invention of printing. A new kind of ink, printer's ink, was created out of soot, turpentine and walnut oil. The new ink made it possible to spread ideas to a mass audience through printed books, and to popularize art through black and white engravings and prints. Because of its contrast and clarity, black ink on white paper continued to be the standard for printing books, newspapers and documents; and for the same reason black text on a white background is the most common format used on computer screens.\n\nIn the early Middle Ages, princes, nobles and the wealthy usually wore bright colors, particularly scarlet cloaks from Italy. Black was rarely part of the wardrobe of a noble family. The one exception was the fur of the sable. This glossy black fur, from an animal of the marten family, was the finest and most expensive fur in Europe. It was imported from Russia and Poland and used to trim the robes and gowns of royalty.\n\nIn the 14th century, the status of black began to change. First, high-quality black dyes began to arrive on the market, allowing garments of a deep, rich black. Magistrates and government officials began to wear black robes, as a sign of the importance and seriousness of their positions. A third reason was the passage of sumptuary laws in some parts of Europe which prohibited the wearing of costly clothes and certain colors by anyone except members of the nobility. The famous bright scarlet cloaks from Venice and the peacock blue fabrics from Florence were restricted to the nobility. The wealthy bankers and merchants of northern Italy responded by changing to black robes and gowns, made with the most expensive fabrics.\n\nThe change to the more austere but elegant black was quickly picked up by the kings and nobility. It began in northern Italy, where the Duke of Milan and the Count of Savoy and the rulers of Mantua, Ferrara, Rimini and Urbino began to dress in black. It then spread to France, led by Louis I, Duke of Orleans, younger brother of King Charles VI of France. It moved to England at the end of the reign of King Richard II (1377–1399), where all the court began to wear black. In 1419–20, black became the color of the powerful Duke of Burgundy, Philip the Good. It moved to Spain, where it became the color of the Spanish Habsburgs, of Charles V and of his son, Philip II of Spain (1527–1598). European rulers saw it as the color of power, dignity, humility and temperance. By the end of the 16th century, it was the color worn by almost all the monarchs of Europe and their courts.\n\nWhile black was the color worn by the Catholic rulers of Europe, it was also the emblematic color of the Protestant Reformation in Europe and the Puritans in England and America. John Calvin, Philip Melanchthon and other Protestant theologians denounced the richly colored and decorated interiors of Roman Catholic churches. They saw the color red, worn by the Pope and his Cardinals, as the color of luxury, sin, and human folly. In some northern European cities, mobs attacked churches and cathedrals, smashed the stained glass windows and defaced the statues and decoration. In Protestant doctrine, clothing was required to be sober, simple and discreet. Bright colors were banished and replaced by blacks, browns and grays; women and children were recommended to wear white.\n\nIn the Protestant Netherlands, Rembrandt used this sober new palette of blacks and browns to create portraits whose faces emerged from the shadows expressing the deepest human emotions. The Catholic painters of the Counter-Reformation, like Rubens, went in the opposite direction; they filled their paintings with bright and rich colors. The new Baroque churches of the Counter-Reformation were usually shining white inside and filled with statues, frescoes, marble, gold and colorful paintings, to appeal to the public. But European Catholics of all classes, like Protestants, eventually adopted a sober wardrobe that was mostly black, brown and gray.\nIn the second part of the 17th century, Europe and America experienced an epidemic of fear of witchcraft. People widely believed that the devil appeared at midnight in a ceremony called a Black Mass or black sabbath, usually in the form of a black animal, often a goat, a dog, a wolf, a bear, a deer or a rooster, accompanied by their familiar spirits, black cats, serpents and other black creatures. This was the origin of the widespread superstition about black cats and other black animals. In medieval Flanders, in a ceremony called \"Kattenstoet,\" black cats were thrown from the belfry of the Cloth Hall of Ypres to ward off witchcraft.\n\nWitch trials were common in both Europe and America during this period. During the notorious Salem witch trials in New England in 1692–93, one of those on trial was accused of being able turn into a \"black thing with a blue cap,\" and others of having familiars in the form of a black dog, a black cat and a black bird. Nineteen women and men were hanged as witches.\nIn the 18th century, during the European Age of Enlightenment, black receded as a fashion color. Paris became the fashion capital, and pastels, blues, greens, yellow and white became the colors of the nobility and upper classes. But after the French Revolution, black again became the dominant color.\n\nBlack was the color of the industrial revolution, largely fueled by coal, and later by oil. Thanks to coal smoke, the buildings of the large cities of Europe and America gradually turned black. By 1846 the industrial area of the West Midlands of England was \"commonly called 'the Black Country'”. Charles Dickens and other writers described the dark streets and smoky skies of London, and they were vividly illustrated in the engravings of French artist Gustave Doré.\n\nA different kind of black was an important part of the romantic movement in literature. Black was the color of melancholy, the dominant theme of romanticism. The novels of the period were filled with castles, ruins, dungeons, storms, and meetings at midnight. The leading poets of the movement were usually portrayed dressed in black, usually with a white shirt and open collar, and a scarf carelessly over their shoulder, Percy Bysshe Shelley and Lord Byron helped create the enduring stereotype of the romantic poet.\n\nThe invention of new, inexpensive synthetic black dyes and the industrialization of the textile industry meant that good-quality black clothes were available for the first time to the general population. In the 19th century gradually black became the most popular color of business dress of the upper and middle classes in England, the Continent, and America.\n\nBlack dominated literature and fashion in the 19th century, and played a large role in painting. James McNeil Whistler made the color the subject of his most famous painting, \"Arrangement in grey and black number one\" (1871), better known as \"Whistler's Mother\".\n\nSome 19th-century French painters had a low opinion of black: \"Reject black,\" Paul Gauguin said, \"and that mix of black and white they call gray. Nothing is black, nothing is gray.\" But Édouard Manet used blacks for their strength and dramatic effect. Manet's portrait of painter Berthe Morisot was a study in black which perfectly captured her spirit of independence. The black gave the painting power and immediacy; he even changed her eyes, which were green, to black to strengthen the effect. Henri Matisse quoted the French impressionist Pissarro telling him, \"Manet is stronger than us all – he made light with black.\"\n\nPierre-Auguste Renoir used luminous blacks, especially in his portraits. When someone told him that black was not a color, Renoir replied: \"What makes you think that? Black is the queen of colors. I always detested Prussian blue. I tried to replace black with a mixture of red and blue, I tried using cobalt blue or ultramarine, but I always came back to ivory black.\"\n\nVincent van Gogh used black lines to outline many of the objects in his paintings, such as the bed in the famous painting of his bedroom. making them stand apart. His painting of black crows over a cornfield, painted shortly before he died, was particularly agitated and haunting.\n\nIn the late 19th century, black also became the color of anarchism. (See the section political movements.)\n\nIn the 20th century, black was the color of Italian and German fascism. (See the section political movements.)\n\nIn art, black regained some of the territory that it had lost during the 19th century. The Russian painter Kasimir Malevich, a member of the Suprematist movement, created the \"Black Square\" in 1915, is widely considered the first purely abstract painting. He wrote, \"The painted work is no longer simply the imitation of reality, but is this very reality ... It is not a demonstration of ability, but the materialization of an idea.\"\n\nBlack was also appreciated by Henri Matisse. \"When I didn't know what color to put down, I put down black,\" he said in 1945. \"Black is a force: I used black as ballast to simplify the construction ... Since the impressionists it seems to have made continuous progress, taking a more and more important part in color orchestration, comparable to that of the double bass as a solo instrument.\"\n\nIn the 1950s, black came to be a symbol of individuality and intellectual and social rebellion, the color of those who didn't accept established norms and values. In Paris, it was worn by Left-Bank intellectuals and performers such as Juliette Greco, and by some members of the Beat Movement in New York and San Francisco. Black leather jackets were worn by motorcycle gangs such as the Hells Angels and street gangs on the fringes of society in the United States. Black as a color of rebellion was celebrated in such films as \"The Wild One\", with Marlon Brando. By the end of the 20th century, black was the emblematic color of the punk subculture punk fashion, and the goth subculture. Goth fashion, which emerged in England in the 1980s, was inspired by Victorian era mourning dress.\n\nIn men's fashion, black gradually ceded its dominance to navy blue, particularly in business suits. Black evening dress and formal dress in general were worn less and less. In 1960, John F. Kennedy was the last American President to be inaugurated wearing formal dress; President Lyndon Johnson and all his successors were inaugurated wearing business suits.\n\nWomen's fashion was revolutionized and simplified in 1926 by the French designer Coco Chanel, who published a drawing of a simple black dress in \"Vogue\" magazine. She famously said, \"A woman needs just three things; a black dress, a black sweater, and, on her arm, a man she loves.\" Other designers contributed to the trend of the little black dress. The Italian designer Gianni Versace said, \"Black is the quintessence of simplicity and elegance,\" and French designer Yves Saint Laurent said, \"black is the liaison which connects art and fashion. One of the most famous black dresses of the century was designed by Hubert de Givenchy and was worn by Audrey Hepburn in the 1961 film \"Breakfast at Tiffany's\".\n\nThe American civil rights movement in the 1950s was a struggle for the political equality of African Americans. It developed into the Black Power movement in the late 1960s and 1970s, and popularized the slogan \"Black is Beautiful\".\n\nIn the 1990s, the Black Standard became the banner of several Islamic extremist, jihadist groups. (See the section political movements.)\n\nIn the visible spectrum, black is the absorption of all colors.\n\nBlack can be defined as the visual impression experienced when no visible light reaches the eye. Pigments or dyes that absorb light rather than reflect it back to the eye \"look black\". A black pigment can, however, result from a \"combination\" of several pigments that collectively absorb all colors. If appropriate proportions of three primary pigments are mixed, the result reflects so little light as to be called \"black\".\n\nThis provides two superficially opposite but actually complementary descriptions of black. Black is the absorption of all colors of light, or an exhaustive combination of multiple colors of pigment. See also primary colors.\n\nIn physics, a black body is a perfect absorber of light, but, by a thermodynamic rule, it is also the best emitter. Thus, the best radiative cooling, out of sunlight, is by using black paint, though it is important that it be black (a nearly perfect absorber) in the infrared as well.\n\nIn elementary science, far ultraviolet light is called \"black light\" because, while itself unseen, it causes many minerals and other substances to fluoresce.\n\nOn January 16, 2008, researchers from Troy, New York's Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute announced the creation of the then darkest material on the planet. The material, which reflected only 0.045 percent of light, was created from carbon nanotubes stood on end. This is 1/30 of the light reflected by the current standard for blackness, and one third the light reflected by the previous record holder for darkest substance. As of February 2016, the current darkest material known is claimed to be Vantablack.\n\nA material is said to be black if most incoming light is absorbed equally in the material. Light (electromagnetic radiation in the visible spectrum) interacts with the atoms and molecules, which causes the energy of the light to be converted into other forms of energy, usually heat. This means that black surfaces can act as thermal collectors, absorbing light and generating heat (see Solar thermal collector).\n\nAbsorption of light is contrasted by transmission, reflection and diffusion, where the light is only redirected, causing objects to appear transparent, reflective or white respectively.\n\nThe earliest pigments used by Neolithic man were charcoal, red ocher and yellow ocher. The black lines of cave art were drawn with the tips of burnt torches made of a wood with resin.\n\nDifferent charcoal pigments were made by burning different woods and animal products, each of which produced a different tone. The charcoal would be ground and then mixed with animal fat to make the pigment.\n\nThe 15th-century painter Cennino Cennini described how this pigment was made during the Renaissance in his famous handbook for artists: \"...there is a black which is made from the tendrils of vines. And these tendrils need to be burned. And when they have been burned, throw some water onto them and put them out and then mull them in the same way as the other black. And this is a lean and black pigment and is one of the perfect pigments that we use.\"\n\nCennini also noted that \"There is another black which is made from burnt almond shells or peaches and this is a perfect, fine black.\" Similar fine blacks were made by burning the pits of the peach, cherry or apricot. The powdered charcoal was then mixed with gum arabic or the yellow of an egg to make a paint.\n\nDifferent civilizations burned different plants to produce their charcoal pigments. The Inuit of Alaska used wood charcoal mixed with the blood of seals to paint masks and wooden objects. The Polynesians burned coconuts to produce their pigment.\n\nGood-quality black dyes were not known until the middle of the 14th century. The most common early dyes were made from bark, roots or fruits of different trees; usually the walnut, chestnut, or certain oak trees. The blacks produced were often more gray, brown or bluish. The cloth had to be dyed several times to darken the color. One solution used by dyers was add to the dye some iron filings, rich in iron oxide, which gave a deeper black. Another was to first dye the fabric dark blue, and then to dye it black.\n\nA much richer and deeper black dye was eventually found made from the Oak apple or gall-nut. The gall-nut is a small round tumor which grows on oak and other varieties of trees. They range in size from 2–5 cm, and are caused by chemicals injected by the larva of certain kinds of gall wasp in the family Cynipidae. The dye was very expensive; a great quantity of gall-nuts were needed for a very small amount of dye. The gall-nuts which made the best dye came from Poland, eastern Europe, the near east and North Africa. Beginning in about the 14th century, dye from gall-nuts was used for clothes of the kings and princes of Europe.\n\nAnother important source of natural black dyes from the 17th century onwards was the logwood tree, or Haematoxylum campechianum, which also produced reddish and bluish dyes. It is a species of flowering tree in the legume family, Fabaceae, that is native to southern Mexico and northern Central America. The modern nation of Belize grew from 17th century English logwood logging camps.\n\nSince the mid-19th century, synthetic black dyes have largely replaced natural dyes. One of the important synthetic blacks is Nigrosin, a mixture of synthetic black dyes (CI 50415, Solvent black 5) made by heating a mixture of nitrobenzene, aniline and aniline hydrochloride in the presence of a copper or iron catalyst. Its main industrial uses are as a colorant for lacquers and varnishes and in marker-pen inks.\n\nThe first known inks were made by the Chinese, and date back to the 23rd century B.C. They used natural plant dyes and minerals such as graphite ground with water and applied with an ink brush. Early Chinese inks similar to the modern inkstick have been found dating to about 256 BC at the end of the Warring States period. They were produced from soot, usually produced by burning pine wood, mixed with animal glue. To make ink from an inkstick, the stick is continuously ground against an inkstone with a small quantity of water to produce a dark liquid which is then applied with an ink brush. Artists and calligraphists could vary the thickness of the resulting ink by reducing or increasing the intensity and time of ink grinding. These inks produced the delicate shading and subtle or dramatic effects of Chinese brush painting.\n\nIndia ink (or Indian ink in British English) is a black ink once widely used for writing and printing and now more commonly used for drawing, especially when inking comic books and comic strips. The technique of making it probably came from China. India ink has been in use in India since at least the 4th century BC, where it was called \"masi\". In India, the black color of the ink came from bone char, tar, pitch and other substances.\n\nThe Ancient Romans had a black writing ink they called \"atramentum librarium\". Its name came from the Latin word \"atrare\", which meant to make something black. (This was the same root as the English word \"atrocious\".) It was usually made, like India ink, from soot, although one variety, called \"atramentum elephantinum\", was made by burning the ivory of elephants.\n\nGall-nuts were also used for making fine black writing ink. Iron gall ink (also known as iron gall nut ink or oak gall ink) was a purple-black or brown-black ink made from iron salts and tannic acids from gall nut. It was the standard writing and drawing ink in Europe, from about the 12th century to the 19th century, and remained in use well into the 20th century.\n\n\nThe fact that outer space is black is sometimes called Olbers' paradox. In theory, because the universe is full of stars, and is believed to be infinitely large, it would be expected that the light of an infinite number of stars would be enough to brilliantly light the whole universe all the time. However, the background color of outer space is black. This contradiction was first noted in 1823 by German astronomer Heinrich Wilhelm Matthias Olbers, who posed the question of why the night sky was black.\n\nThe current accepted answer is that, although the universe is infinitely large, it is not infinitely old. It is thought to be about 13.8 billion years old, so we can only see objects as far away as the distance light can travel in 13.8 billion years. Light from stars farther away has not reached Earth, and cannot contribute to making the sky bright. Furthermore, as the universe is expanding, many stars are moving away from Earth. As they move, the wavelength of their light becomes longer, through the Doppler effect, and shifts toward red, or even becomes invisible. As a result of these two phenomena, there is not enough starlight to make space anything but black.\n\nThe daytime sky on Earth is blue because light from the Sun strikes molecules in Earth's atmosphere scattering light in all directions. Blue light is scattered more than other colors, and reaches the eye in greater quantities, making the daytime sky appear blue. This is known as Rayleigh scattering.\n\nThe nighttime sky on Earth is black because the part of Earth experiencing night is facing away from the Sun, the light of the Sun is blocked by Earth itself, and there is no other bright nighttime source of light in the vicinity. Thus, there is not enough light to undergo Rayleigh scattering and make the sky blue. On the Moon, on the other hand, because there is no atmosphere to scatter the light, the sky is black both day and night. This phenomenon also holds true for other locations without an atmosphere.\n\nIn China, the color black is associated with water, one of the five fundamental elements believed to compose all things; and with winter, cold, and the direction north, usually symbolized by a black tortoise. It is also associated with disorder, including the positive disorder which leads to change and new life. When the first Emperor of China Qin Shi Huang seized power from the Zhou Dynasty, he changed the Imperial color from red to black, saying that black extinguished red. Only when the Han Dynasty appeared in 206 BC was red restored as the imperial color.\n\nThe Chinese and Japanese character for black (\"kuro\" in Japanese), can, depending upon the context, also mean dark or evil.\n\nIn Japan, black is associated with mystery, the night, the unknown, the supernatural, the invisible and death. Combined with white, it can symbolize intuition.\n\nIn Japan in the 10th and 11th century, it was believed that wearing black could bring misfortune. It was worn at court by those who wanted to set themselves apart from the established powers or who had renounced material possessions.\n\nIn Japan black can also symbolize experience, as opposed to white, which symbolizes naiveté. The black belt in martial arts symbolizes experience, while a white belt is worn by novices. Japanese men traditionally wear a black kimono with some white decoration on their wedding day.\n\nIn Indonesia black is associated with depth, the subterranean world, demons, disaster, and the left hand. When black is combined with white, however, it symbolizes harmony and equilibrium.\n\nAnarchism is a political philosophy, most popular in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which holds that governments and capitalism are harmful and undesirable. The symbols of anarchism was usually either a black flag or a black letter A. More recently it is usually represented with a bisected red and black flag, to emphasise the movement's socialist roots in the First International. Anarchism was most popular in Spain, France, Italy, Ukraine and Argentina. There were also small but influential movements in the United States and Russia. In the latter, the movement initially allied itself with the Bolsheviks.\n\nThe Black Army was a collection of anarchist military units which fought in the Russian Civil War, sometimes on the side of the Bolshevik Red Army, and sometimes for the opposing White Army. It was officially known as the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine, and it was under the command of the famous anarchist Nestor Makhno.\n\nFascism. The Blackshirts () were Fascist paramilitary groups in Italy during the period immediately following World War I and until the end of World War II. The Blackshirts were officially known as the Voluntary Militia for National Security (\"Milizia Volontaria per la Sicurezza Nazionale\", or MVSN).\n\nInspired by the black uniforms of the Arditi, Italy's elite storm troops of World War I, the Fascist Blackshirts were organized by Benito Mussolini as the military tool of his political movement. They used violence and intimidation against Mussolini's opponents. The emblem of the Italian fascists was a black flag with fasces, an axe in a bundle of sticks, an ancient Roman symbol of authority. Mussolini came to power in 1922 through his March on Rome with the blackshirts.\n\nBlack was also adopted by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis in Germany. Red, white and black were the colors of the flag of the German Empire from 1870 to 1918. In \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler explained that they were \"revered colors expressive of our homage to the glorious past.\" Hitler also wrote that \"the new flag ... should prove effective as a large poster\" because \"in hundreds of thousands of cases a really striking emblem may be the first cause of awakening interest in a movement.\" The black swastika was meant to symbolize the Aryan race, which, according to the Nazis, \"was always anti-Semitic and will always be anti-Semitic.\" Several designs by a number of different authors were considered, but the one adopted in the end was Hitler's personal design. Black became the color of the uniform of the SS, the \"Schutzstaffel\" or \"defense corps\", the paramilitary wing of the Nazi Party, and was worn by SS officers from 1932 until the end of World War II.\n\nThe Nazis used a black triangle to symbolize anti-social elements. The symbol originates from Nazi concentration camps, where every prisoner had to wear one of the Nazi concentration camp badges on their jacket, the color of which categorized them according to \"their kind.\" Many Black Triangle prisoners were either mentally disabled or mentally ill. The homeless were also included, as were alcoholics, the Romani people, the habitually \"work-shy,\" prostitutes, draft dodgers and pacifists. More recently the black triangle has been adopted as a symbol in lesbian culture and by disabled activists.\n\nBlack shirts were also worn by the British Union of Fascists before World War II, and members of fascist movements in the Netherlands.\n\nPatriotic Resistance. The Lützow Free Corps, composed of volunteer German students and academics fighting against Napoleon in 1813, could not afford to make special uniforms and therefore adopted black, as the only color that could be used to dye their civilian clothing without the original color showing. In 1815 the students began to carry a red, black and gold flag, which they believed (incorrectly) had been the colors of the Holy Roman Empire (the imperial flag had actually been gold and black). In 1848, this banner became the flag of the German confederation. In 1866, Prussia unified Germany under its rule, and imposed the red, white and black of its own flag, which remained the colors of the German flag until the end of the Second World War. In 1949 the Federal Republic of Germany returned to the original flag and colors of the students and professors of 1815, which is the flag of Germany today.\n\nIslamism. The Black Standard ( , also known as \"banner of the eagle\" or simply as \"the banner\") is the historical flag flown by Muhammad in Islamic tradition, an eschatological symbol in Shi'a Islam (heralding the advent of the Mahdi), and a symbol used in Islamism and Jihadism.\n\nBlack has been a traditional color of cavalry and armoured or mechanized troops. German armoured troops (Panzerwaffe) traditionally wore black uniforms, and even in others, a black beret is common. In Finland, black is the symbolic color for both armoured troops and combat engineers, and military units of these specialities have black flags and unit insignia.\n\nThe black beret and the color black is also a symbol of special forces in many countries. Soviet and Russian OMON special police and Russian naval infantry wear a black beret. A black beret is also worn by military police in the Canadian, Czech, Croatian, Portuguese, Spanish and Serbian armies.\n\nThe silver-on-black skull and crossbones symbol or Totenkopf and a black uniform were used by Hussars and Black Brunswickers, the German Panzerwaffe and the Nazi Schutzstaffel, and U.S. 400th Missile Squadron (crossed missiles), and continues in use with the Estonian Kuperjanov Battalion.\n\n\nIn Christianity, the devil is often called the \"prince of darkness.\" The term was used in John Milton's poem \"Paradise Lost\", published in 1667, referring to Satan, who is viewed as the embodiment of evil. It is an English translation of the Latin phrase \"princeps tenebrarum\", which occurs in the \"Acts of Pilate\", written in the fourth century, in the 11th-century hymn \"Rhythmus de die mortis\" by Pietro Damiani, and in a sermon by Bernard of Clairvaux from the 12th century. The phrase also occurs in \"King Lear\" by William Shakespeare (c. 1606), Act III, Scene IV, l. 14:\n'The prince of darkness is a gentleman.\"\n\nPriests and pastors of the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Protestant churches commonly wear black, as do monks of the Benedictine Order, who consider it the color of humility and penitence.\n\n\n\nIn Europe and America, black is the color most commonly associated with mourning and bereavement. It is the color traditionally worn at funerals and memorial services. In some traditional societies, for example in Greece and Italy, some widows wear black for the rest of their lives. In contrast, across much of Africa and parts of Asia like Vietnam, white is a color of mourning and is worn during funerals.\n\nIn Victorian England, the colors and fabrics of mourning were specified in an unofficial dress code: \"non-reflective black paramatta and crape for the first year of deepest mourning, followed by nine months of dullish black silk, heavily trimmed with crape, and then three months when crape was discarded. Paramatta was a fabric of combined silk and wool or cotton; crape was a harsh black silk fabric with a crimped appearance produced by heat. Widows were allowed to change into the colors of half-mourning, such as gray and lavender, black and white, for the final six months.\"\n\nA \"black day\" (or week or month) usually refers to tragic date. The Romans marked \"fasti\" days with white stones and \"nefasti\" days with black. The term is often used to remember massacres. Black months include the Black September in Jordan, when large numbers of Palestinians were killed, and Black July in Sri Lanka, the killing of members of the Tamil population by the Sinhalese government.\n\nIn the financial world, the term often refers to a dramatic drop in the stock market. For example, the Wall Street Crash of 1929, the stock market crash on October 29, 1929, which marked the start of the Great Depression, is nicknamed Black Tuesday, and was preceded by Black Thursday, a downturn on October 24 the previous week.\nIn western popular culture, black has long been associated with evil and darkness. It is the traditional color of witchcraft and black magic.\n\nIn the Book of Revelation, the last book in the New Testament of the Bible, the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are supposed to announce the Apocalypse before the Last Judgment. The horseman representing famine rides a black horse.\n\nThe vampire of literature and films, such as Count Dracula of the Bram Stoker novel, dressed in black, and could only move at night. The Wicked Witch of the West in the 1939 film \"The Wizard of Oz\" became the archetype of witches for generations of children. Whereas witches and sorcerers inspired real fear in the 17th century, in the 21st century children and adults dressed as witches for Halloween parties and parades.\n\nBlack is frequently used as a color of power, law and authority. In many countries judges and magistrates wear black robes. That custom began in Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries. Jurists, magistrates and certain other court officials in France began to wear long black robes during the reign of Philip IV of France (1285–1314), and in England from the time of Edward I (1271–1307). The custom spread to the cities of Italy at about the same time, between 1300 and 1320. The robes of judges resembled those worn by the clergy, and represented the law and authority of the King, while those of the clergy represented the law of God and authority of the church.\n\nUntil the 20th century most police uniforms were black, until they were largely replaced by a less menacing blue in France, the U.S. and other countries. In the United States, police cars are frequently Black and white. The riot control units of the Basque Autonomous Police in Spain are known as \"beltzak\" (\"blacks\") after their uniform.\n\nBlack today is the most common color for limousines and the official cars of government officials.\n\nBlack evening dress is still worn at many solemn occasions or ceremonies, from graduations to formal balls. Graduation gowns are copied from the gowns worn by university professors in the Middle Ages, which in turn were copied from the robes worn by judges and priests, who often taught at the early universities. The mortarboard hat worn by graduates is adapted from a square cap called a biretta worn by Medieval professors and clerics\n\nIn the 19th and 20th centuries, many machines and devices, large and small, were painted black, to stress their functionality. These included telephones, sewing machines, steamships, railroad locomotives, and automobiles. The Ford Model T, the first mass-produced car, was available only in black from 1914 to 1926. Of means of transportation, only airplanes were rarely ever painted black.\nBlack house paint is becoming more popular with Sherwin-Williams reporting that the color, Tricorn Black, was the 6th most popular exterior house paint color in Canada and the 12th most popular paint in the United States in 2018.\n\n\nBlack is also commonly used as a racial description in the United Kingdom, since ethnicity was first measured in the 2001 census. The 2011 British census asked residents to describe themselves, and categories offered included Black, African, Caribbean, or Black British. Other possible categories were African British, African Scottish, Caribbean British and Caribbean Scottish. Of the total UK population in 2001, 1.0 percent identified themselves as Black Caribbean, 0.8 percent as Black African, and 0.2 percent as Black (others).\n\nIn Canada, census respondents can identify themselves as Black. In the 2006 census, 2.5 percent of the population identified themselves as black.\n\nIn Australia, the term black is not used in the census. In the 2006 census, 2.3 percent of Australians identified themselves as Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islanders.\n\nIn Brazil, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) asks people to identify themselves as \"branco\" (white), \"pardo\" (brown), \"preto\" (black), or \"amarelo\" (yellow). In 2008 6.8 percent of the population identified themselves as \"preto\".\n\nBlack is commonly associated with secrecy.\n\nBlack is the color most commonly associated with elegance in Europe and the United States, followed by silver, gold, and white.\n\nBlack first became a fashionable color for men in Europe in the 17th century, in the courts of Italy and Spain. (See history above.) In the 19th century, it was the fashion for men both in business and for evening wear, in the form of a black coat whose tails came down the knees. In the evening it was the custom of the men to leave the women after dinner to go to a special smoking room to enjoy cigars or cigarettes. This meant that their tailcoats eventually smelled of tobacco. According to the legend, in 1865 Edward VII, then the Prince of Wales, had his tailor make a special short smoking jacket. The smoking jacket then evolved into the dinner jacket. Again according to legend, the first Americans to wear the jacket were members of the Tuxedo Club in New York State. Thereafter the jacket became known as a tuxedo in the U.S. The term \"smoking\" is still used today in Russia and other countries.\nThe tuxedo was always black until the 1930s, when the Duke of Windsor began to wear a tuxedo that was a very dark midnight blue. He did so because a black tuxedo looked greenish in artificial light, while a dark blue tuxedo looked blacker than black itself.\n\nFor women's fashion, the defining moment was the invention of the simple black dress by Coco Chanel in 1926. (See history.) Thereafter, a long black gown was used for formal occasions, while the simple black dress could be used for everything else. The designer Karl Lagerfeld, explaining why black was so popular, said: \"Black is the color that goes with everything. If you're wearing black, you're on sure ground.\" Skirts have gone up and down and fashions have changed, but the black dress has not lost its position as the essential element of a woman's wardrobe. The fashion designer Christian Dior said, \"elegance is a combination of distinction, naturalness, care and simplicity,\" and black exemplified elegance.\n\nThe expression \"X is the new black\" is a reference to the latest trend or fad that is considered a wardrobe basic for the duration of the trend, on the basis that black is always fashionable. The phrase has taken on a life of its own and has become a cliché.\n\nMany performers of both popular and European classical music, including French singers Edith Piaf and Juliette Greco, and violinist Joshua Bell have traditionally worn black on stage during performances. A black costume was usually chosen as part of their image or stage persona, or because it did not distract from the music, or sometimes for a political reason. Country-western singer Johnny Cash always wore black on stage. In 1971, Cash wrote the song \"Man in Black\" to explain why he dressed in that color: \"We're doing mighty fine I do suppose / In our streak of lightning cars and fancy clothes / But just so we're reminded of the ones who are held back / Up front there ought to be a man in black.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20905122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20905122", "title": "Bullion Stone", "text": "Bullion Stone\n\nThe Bullion Stone is a late carved Pictish stone, which is unusual in containing a figure; it dates to c. 900-950. It was discovered in 1933 during the construction of a road in Angus, Scotland, and is now located in the Museum of Scotland in Edinburgh. The image on the stone is unique amongst Pictish stones discovered thus far. It depicts a bald, bearded man on a weary horse, carrying a shield and drinking from a very large drinking horn with a bird's head terminal, a parallel that has been noted to the Torrs Horns, also in the museum, of nearly 1,000 years earlier.\n\n"}
{"id": "56087921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56087921", "title": "Composition for \"Jazz\"", "text": "Composition for \"Jazz\"\n\nComposition for \"Jazz\", or Composition (For \"Jazz\"), is a 1915 painting by the French artist, theorist and writer Albert Gleizes. This Cubist work was reproduced in a photograph of Gleizes working on the painting in the Xeic York Herald, then published in The Literary Digest, 27 November 1915 (p. 1225). \"Composition for \"Jazz\"\" was purchased in 1938 by Solomon R. Guggenheim from Feragil Gallery, New York and forms part of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Founding Collection. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.\n\n\"Composition for \"Jazz\"\" is a Gouache on cardboard, mounted on Masonite measuring 73 x 73 cm (28 3/4 by 28 3/4 inches), inscribed to the lower right 'Albert Gleizes / 15, N.Y.'\n\nA precursor to Crystal Cubism, \"Composition for \"Jazz\"\" consists of broad, overlapping planes of black, white and two primary colors, yellow and red, dynamically intersecting diagonal lines coupled with circular movements. Despite its highly abstract nature, two figures emerge, one in the 'foreground' and one towards the upper center of the composition. The principle figure, to the left, appears to be playing a banjo. The treatment of the paint is erratic, brushstrokes rapidly applied, almost expressionistic in placement. The composition is dynamic, not in time, but in spatial elements. Details such as the banjo strings and the hand strumming them are delicately yet nervously rendered. Facial features are reduced to mere lines crossing an arc shaped head. The head of the musician on the left is poised vertiginously on top of a mans body, as if disconnected, balanced somehow in unstable equilibrium. The lines, arcs, colors, and brushstrokes are together juxtaposed seemingly at random, as if the entire composition was an improvised memory of a jazz performance.\n\nAround 1912 the four-string banjo and saxophones became popular in New York, with ensembles such as the Clef Club Orchestra playing music by black composers. They played at Carnegie Hall between 1912 and 1914. Their performances generated respectability in white society. From around 1915, early jazz performances consisted primarily of small ensembles (four or five musicians) of exciting, wild, instinctual, and almost entirely improvised polyphony.\n\nJuliette Roche Gleizes gave an evocative description of the couple's first night in New York City and the spectacular experience that inspired Gleizes to work on the theme of jazz. Art historian Daniel Robbins recounts:\n\nThey arrived in the late afternoon, drove to the Albemarle Hotel on Forty-fifth Street, and almost immediately set out for a long walk. After about two hours they entered a restaurant in Harlem where a black jazz group was performing with extraordinary vitality and force. It was an electrifying experience, comparable, they felt, to the discovery of Stravinsky. Within a few days Gleizes produced the present work, followed shortly afterwards by a full-scale oil entitled Jazz [\"Jazz\", 1915, oil on board, 100 x 75 cm, Deroudille collection, Lyon]. In spite of its title, the Guggenheim picture may represent a slightly different response to the same experience, rather than a specific study for the Deroudille work.\nDuring the months of autumn, following his demobilization in 1915, Gleizes married Juliette Roche and moved to New York. There they were met by Carlos Salzedo, Francis Picabia, Man Ray, Marcel Duchamp, and Jean Crotti (who would eventually marry Suzanne Duchamp). Marcel Duchamp had emigrated to New York several months earlier after being judged physically unfit for his service in the military. Shortly after his arrival, Gleizes, accompanied by Salzedo, frequented jazz clubs in Harlem. With all it had to offer, New York had a strong impact on the artist's production, leading to abstract works virtually free of visual subject matter.\n\nGleizes had been to Paris, Bermuda and Barcelona following a short stint serving the military at the fortress city of Toul, late 1914 early 1915, prior to his arrival to New York City. His arrival in Paris after his self-imposed exile saw the new style already underway. Yet independently, Gleizes had been working in a similar direction as early as 1914-15: \"Portrait of an Army Doctor (Portrait d'un médecin militaire)\", 1914-15 (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum); \"Musician (Florent Schmitt)\", 1915 (Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum); and with a much more ambitious subject matter: \"Le Port de New York\", 1917 (Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum).\n\nAs other wartime works by Gleizes, \"Portrait of an Army Doctor\" represented a break from the first phase of Cubism. These wartime works marked \"the beginning of an attempt to preserve specific and individual visual characteristics while experimenting with a radically different compositional treatment in which broad planes, angled from the perimeter, meet circles.\" (Robbins, 1964) Rather than based on the \"analysis\" of volumetric objects, the artist strove toward \"synthesis\"; something that originated in \"unity\".\n\n\"Gleizes was tremendously impressed by New York City\", writes Robbins, \"but the earliest New York paintings continued without break the formal research advanced at Toul (nos. 71-75) even though the influence of new subject matter is apparent.\"\n\nThe period of profound reflection of which \"Composition pour \"Jazz\"\" is a precursor (\"viz.\" Crystal Cubism) contributed to the constitution of a new mindset; a prerequisite for fundamental change. The \"flat surface\", wrote Gleizes in 1925, became the starting point for a revaluation of the fundamental principles of painting. Rather than relying on the purely intellectual, the focus now was on the immediate experience of the senses, based on the idea according to Gleizes, that form, 'changing the directions of its movement, will change its dimensions' [\"La forme, modifiant ses directions, modifiait ses dimensions\"], while revealing the \"basic elements\" of painting, the \"true, solid rules—rules which could be generally applied\". It was Jean Metzinger and Juan Gris who, again according to Gleizes, \"did more than anyone else to fix the basic elements... the first principles of the order that was being born\". \"But Metzinger, clear-headed as a physicist, had already discovered those rudiments of construction without which nothing can be done.\" Ultimately, it was Gleizes who would take the synthetic factor furthest of all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174601", "title": "Demonology", "text": "Demonology\n\nDemonology is the study of demons or beliefs about demons, especially the methods used to summon and control them. The original sense of \"demon\", from the time of Homer onward, was a benevolent being, but in English the name now holds connotations of malevolence. (To keep the distinction, when referring to the word in its original Greek meaning, English may use the spelling \"Daemon\" or \"Daimon\".)\n\nDemons, when regarded as spirits, may belong to either of the classes of spirits recognized by primitive animism. That is to say, they may be human, or non-human, separable souls, or discarnate spirits which have never inhabited a body. A sharp distinction is often drawn between these two classes, notably by the Melanesians, several African groups, and others. The Islamic jinn, for example, are not reducible to modified human souls. At the same time these classes are frequently conceived as producing identical results, e.g. diseases.\n\nThe word \"demonology\" is from Greek , \"daimōn\", \"divinity, divine power, god\"; and , \"-logia\".\n\nAccording to some societies, all the affairs of life are supposed to be under the control of spirits, each ruling a certain \"element\" or even object, and themselves in subjection to a greater spirit. For example, the Inuit are said to believe in spirits of the sea, earth and sky, the winds, the clouds and everything in nature. Every cove of the seashore, every point, every island and prominent rock has its guardian spirit. All are potentially of the malignant type, to be propitiated by an appeal to knowledge of the supernatural. Traditional Korean belief posits countless demons inhabit the natural world; they fill household objects and are present in all locations. By the thousands they accompany travelers, seeking them out from their places in the elements.\n\nIn ancient Babylon, demonology had an influence on even the most mundane elements of life, from petty annoyances to the emotions of love and hatred. The numerous demonic spirits were given charge over various parts of the human body, one for the head, one for the neck, and so on.\n\nGreek philosophers such as Porphyry, who claimed influence from Platonism, and the fathers of the Christian Church, held that the world was pervaded with spirits, the latter of whom advanced the belief that demons received the worship directed at pagan gods.\n\nMany religions and cultures believe, or once believed, that what is now known as soothsaying, was, or is, a form of physical contact with demons.\n\nThe ascription of malevolence to the world of spirits is by no means universal. In Central Africa, the Mpongwe believe in local spirits, just as do the Inuit; but they are regarded as inoffensive in the main. Passers-by must make some trifling offering as they near the spirits' place of abode; but it is only occasionally mischievous acts, such as the throwing down of a tree on a passer-by, are, in the view of the natives, perpetuated by the class of spirits known as \"Ombuiri\".\n\nSo too many of the spirits, especially concerned with the operations of nature, are conceived as neutral or even benevolent; the European peasant fears the corn-spirit only when he irritates him by trenching on his domain and taking his property by cutting the corn; similarly, there is no reason why the more insignificant personages of the pantheon should be conceived as malevolent, and we find that the Petara of the Dyaks are far from indiscriminate and malignant, being viewed as invisible guardians of mankind.\n\nDemons are generally classified as spirits which are believed to enter into relations with the human race. As such the term includes:\n\nExcluded are souls conceived as inhabiting another world. Yet just as gods are not necessarily spiritual, demons may also be regarded as corporeal; vampires for example are sometimes described as human heads with appended entrails, which issue from the tomb to attack the living during the night watches. The so-called Spectre Huntsman of the Malay Peninsula is said to be a man who scours the firmament with his dogs, vainly seeking for what he could not find on Earth: a buck mouse-deer pregnant with male offspring; but he seems to be a living man; there is no statement that he ever died, nor yet that he is a spirit. The incubi and succubi of the Middle Ages are sometimes regarded as spiritual beings; but they were held to give proof of their bodily existence, such as offspring (though often deformed). Belief in demons goes back many millennia. The Zoroastrian faith teaches that there are 3,333 Demons, some with specific dark responsibilities such as war, starvation, sickness, etc.\n\nIn Babylonian mythology, the seven evil deities were known as \"shedu\", or \"storm-demons\". They were represented in winged bull form, derived from the colossal bulls used as protective genii of royal palaces, the name \"shed\" assumed also the meaning of a propitious genius in Babylonian magic literature. It was from Chaldea that the name \"shedu\" came to the Israelites, and so the writers of the Tanach applied the word Shedim to certain Canaanite deities. They also spoke of \"the destroyer\" (Exodus xii. 23) as a Lord who will \"strike down the Egyptians.\" In II Samuel xxiv; 16 and II Chronicles xxi. 15 the pestilence-dealing angel, that is spirit, called \"the destroying angel\" (compare \"the angel of the Lord\" in II Kings xix. 35; Isaiah xxxvii. 36).\n\nTraditionally, Buddhism affirms the existence of hells peopled by demons who torment sinners and tempt mortals to sin, or who seek to thwart their enlightenment, with a demon named Mara as chief tempter, \"prince of darkness,\" or \"Evil One\" in Sanskrit sources.\n\nThe followers of Mara were also called \"mara\", the devils, and are frequently cited as a cause of disease or representations of mental obstructions.\nThe \"mara\" became fully assimilated into the Chinese worldview, and were called \"mo\".\n\nThe idea of the imminent decline and collapse of the Buddhist religion amid a \"great cacophony of demonic influences\" was already a significant component of Buddhism when it reached China in the first century A.D., according to Michel Strickmann. Demonic forces had attained enormous power in the world. For some writers of the time this state of affairs had been ordained to serve the higher purpose of effecting a \"preliminary cleansing\" that would purge and purify humanity in preparation for an ultimate, messianic renewal.\n\nMedieval Chinese Buddhist demonology was heavily influenced by Indian Buddhism. Indian demonology is also fully and systematically described in written sources, though during Buddhism's millennium of direct influence in China, \"Chinese demonology was whipped into respectable shape,\" with a number of Indian demons finding permanent niches even in Taoist ritual texts.\n\nAlso, Śūraṅgama Sūtra, a major Mahayana Buddhism text, describes fifty demonic states: the so-called fifty skandha maras, which are \"negative\" mirror-like reflections of or deviations from correct samādhi (meditative absorption) states. In this context demons are considered by Buddhists to be beings possessing some supernatural powers, who, in the past, might have practiced Dharma, Buddha's teaching, but due to practicing it incorrectly failed to develop Prajñā (Buddhism), true wisdom and Karuṇā, true compassion, which are inseparable attributes of an enlightened being such as a Buddha or a Bodhisattva. In his autobiography, The Blazing Splendor, Tulku Urgyen Rinpoche, a prominent Tibetan Buddhist master of the 20th century describes encounters with such beings. Therefore, depending on the context, in Buddhism demons may refer to both disturbed mind states and actual beings.\n\nChristian demonology is the study of demons from a Christian point of view. It is primarily based on the Bible (Old Testament and New Testament), the exegesis of these scriptures, the writings of early Christian philosophers and hermits, tradition, and legends incorporated from other beliefs.\n\nSome scholars suggest the origins of early Greek Old Testament demonology can be traced to two distinctive and often competing mythologies of evil – Adamic and Enochic, one of which was tied to the fall of man caused by Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden and the other to the fall of angels in the antediluvian period. Thus, the Adamic story traces the source of evil to Satan’s transgression and the fall of man, a trend reflected in the Books of Adam and Eve which explains the reason for Satan’s demotion by his refusal to obey God’s command to venerate newly created Adam.\n\nIn contrast, the early Enochic tradition bases its understanding of the origin of demons on the story of the fallen Watchers led by Azazel. Scholars believe these two enigmatic figures - Azazel and Satan exercised formative influence on early Jewish demonology. While in the beginning of their conceptual journeys Azazel and Satan are posited as representatives of two distinctive and often rival trends tied to the distinctive etiologies of corruption, in later Jewish and Christian demonological lore both antagonists are able to enter each other’s respective stories in new conceptual capacities. In these later traditions Satanael is often depicted as the leader of the fallen angels while his conceptual rival Azazel is portrayed as a seducer of Adam and Eve. While historical Judaism never recognized any set of doctrines about demons, scholars believe its post-exilic concepts of eschatology, angelology, and demonology were influenced by Zoroastrianism. Some, however, believe these concepts were received as part of the Kabbalistic tradition. While many people believe today Lucifer and Satan are different names for the same being, not all scholars subscribe to this view.\n\nA number of authors throughout Christian history have written about demons for a variety of purposes. Theologians like Thomas Aquinas wrote concerning the behaviors of which Christians should be aware, while witchhunters like Heinrich Kramer wrote about how to find and what to do with people they believed were involved with demons. Some texts such as the Lesser Key of Solomon or The Grimoire of Pope Honorius (although these, the earliest manuscripts, were from well after these individuals had died) are written with instructions on how to summon demons in the name of God and often were claimed to have been written by individuals respected within the Church. These latter texts were usually more detailed, giving names, ranks, and descriptions of demons individually and categorically. Most Christians commonly reject these texts as either diabolical or fictitious.\n\nIn modern times, some demonological texts have been written by Christians, usually in a similar vein of Thomas Aquinas, explaining their effects in the world and how faith may lessen or eliminate damage by them. A few Christian authors, such as Jack Chick and John Todd, write with intentions similar to Kramer, proclaiming that demons and their human agents are active in the world. These claims can stray from mainstream ideology, and may include such beliefs as that Christian rock is a means through which demons influence people.\n\nNot all Christians believe that demons exist in the literal sense. There is the view that the language of exorcism in the New Testament is an example of what was once employed to describe the healings of what would be classified in modern days as epilepsy, mental illness etc.\n\nVedic Scriptures include a range of spirits (Vetalas, Rakshasas, Bhutas and Pishachas) that might be classified as demons. These spirits are souls of beings that have committed certain specific sins. As a purging punishment, they are condemned to roam without a physical form for a length of time, until a rebirth. Beings that died with unfulfilled desires or anger are also said to \"linger\" until such issues are resolved. Hindu text Atharvaveda gives an account of nature and habitats of such spirits including how to persuade/control them. There are occult traditions in Hinduism that seeks to control such spirits to do their bidding. Hindu text Garuda Purana details other kinds of punishments and judgments given out in Hell; this also given an account of how the spirit travels to nether worlds.\n\nIslam has no doctrinal hierarchy of demonology. Even though some Muslim scholars tried to classify jinn and demons, there is no established classification and terms on jinn may overlap or used interchangeable. Naming the Jinn also depends on cultural influences. Julius Wellhausen states, that Islamic \"demonology\" is also zoology. Many demonic or demon-like entities are not purely spiritual, but also physical in nature and related to animals. One prominent classification is made by Jahiz\n\n\nThe German orientalist Almut Wieland-Karimi classified the Jinn in the ten most common categories mentioned in folklore literature :\n\n\nThe Ghul and the Si'lah often challanged orientalists to hold them apart, because both are shapeshifter and also appear as females to seduce men. A Ghul in Arabic meaning, terms any shapeshifting spirit, including the Si'lah. Furthermore, Marid and Ifrit may be hard to distinguish, since they are often used interchangeable, for example in \"One Thousand and One Nights \". However both entities have properties apart from the other. The Ifrit is also related to the ghosts of the dead, seeking for revenge, unlike the Marid. On the other hand, the Marid is related to assistans of truthsayers, striving to heaven to access informations from the angels, while the Ifrit does not.\n\nAdditionally the Peri and the Daeva are kinds of Jinn in Persian lore. While the Daeva are akin to the Shayateen, subordinates of Satan, the Peris are good Jinn fighting the Daeva. However the Peri may endanger people, if they become angered.\n\nAhmad al-Buni relates four Ifrits to archdemons, diametral to the four archangels of Islam. They have their own Shayateen under command but are subordinate to Iblis, who is thought to be the leader of Shayateen.\n\nJudaism does not have a demonology or any set of doctrines about demons.\nUse of the name \"Lucifer\" stems from , a passage which does speak of the defeat of a particular Babylonian King, to whom it gives a title which refers to what in English is called the Day Star or Morning Star (in Latin, \"lucifer\", meaning \"light-bearer\", from the words \"lucem ferre\").\n\nThere is more than one instance in Jewish medieval myth and lore where demons are said to have come to be, as seen by the Grigori angels, of Lilith leaving Adam, of demons such as vampires, unrest spirits in Jewish folklore such as the dybbuk.\n\nIn the Zoroastrian tradition, Ahura Mazda, as the force of good Spenta Mainyu, will eventually be victorious in a cosmic battle with an evil force known as Angra Mainyu or Ahriman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44358246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44358246", "title": "Exposed (2016 film)", "text": "Exposed (2016 film)\n\nExposed (originally titled \"Daughter of God\") is a 2016 American thriller film, written and directed by Gee Malik Linton (credited as Declan Dale), at his directorial debut. The film stars Ana de Armas, Keanu Reeves, Christopher McDonald, Big Daddy Kane, and Mira Sorvino. The film was released in a limited release and through video on demand on January 22, 2016, by Lionsgate Premiere.\n\nA police officer, Detective Galban, investigates the circumstances behind the death of his partner, Detective Joey Cullen. The mysterious case leads to an attempted police cover-up and a dangerous secret involving an unlikely young woman. The two parallel story lines initially appear to have little in common, but as events gradually unfold in the two separate urban worlds, the young woman, Isabel De La Cruz, appears to somehow be involved in the detective's demise.\n\nDetective Cullen was depraved and corrupted. His colleagues fear that the investigation into his death will bring these facts to light. The results would include bad press for the police department and the loss of his pension for his family. The fear is based on the fact that one of the prime suspects in the case is a young ex-convict who had allegedly been sexually molested with a broomstick wielded by Detective Cullen. Supervisors within the precinct would rather let the murderer go free than to open up a Pandora's Box of troubles for everyone concerned. \n\nMeanwhile in Isabel's private world, Isabel befriends a young girl named Elisa. Isabel suspects that Elisa is being abused at home by her father. She also believes that the strange beings she has begun seeing on the streets are angels. Accordingly, she thinks that her mysterious \"impossible\" pregnancy is a gift from God, which no one else is willing to believe. Isabel returns to her parents’ home to live. When Elisa says that Isabel’s father has hurt her, it triggers a sudden recollection in Isabel’s mind of sexual abuse from her father many years ago. All of Isabel’s buried memories are suddenly released in an avalanche of images. In truth, it turns out that Isabel's \"angels\" are a fabrication of her own mind. She created them to accompany a fictional narrative that would replace the unbearably traumatic memories of being raped by Detective Cullen on the subway platform the night that her \"visions\" began. She further suppressed the memory of catching him off guard afterwards and killing him in a fit of righteous rage. \n\nIn response to the memories and to Elisa’s crying, Isabel kills her father in order to protect Elisa. Detective Galban is then sent to the scene of the murder. When Galban looks at an old photograph of Isabel’s family it is revealed that Elisa is also a fabrication of Isabel’s mind. The imaginary girl is actually Isabel as a child. In the end Elisa disappears as Isabel is in church praying for the strength to accept everything that has happened.\n\nOn September 6, 2014, it was announced that Keanu Reeves and Ana de Armas would star together in the movie \"Daughter of God\", after the identical news of April 4 for Eli Roth's \"Knock Knock\", and that Reeves and Robin Gurland would be producers of the film. On November 7, Remark Films boarded on its first project to co-finance the film. On November 8, Mira Sorvino joined the film. The other cast include Christopher McDonald, Big Daddy Kane, Michael Rispoli, Laura Gómez. In December 2014, Carlos José Alvarez was set to score the film.\n\nPrincipal photography began in early November 2014 in New York City. On November 26, filming was taking place in Brooklyn.\n\nThe original story was a surreal bi-lingual drama, reminiscent of \"Pan's Labyrinth\" and \"Irreversible\", that focused on child sexual abuse, violence against women, mass incarceration, and police violence committed under the pretense of the state's authority. However, the executives at Lionsgate Premiere thought they had been sold a Keanu Reeves cop-thriller. To increase the film's potential box office, during the editing process Lionsgate changed the story's focus to center on Reeves' character, and changed the film into a crime thriller. Gee Malik Linton is the director of the film, but is listed under the pseudonym of Declan Dale.\n\nAlthough the film has earned only little more than $260,000 in worldwide theatrical box office, sales of its DVD/Blu-ray releases have cashed almost $1.7 million.\n\n\"Exposed\" received negative reviews from film critics. It holds an approval rating of 9% on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 23 reviews, with an average rating of 3/10. On Metacritic, the film holds a score of 23 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nFrank Scheck of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" gave the film a mixed review writing: \"There are glimpses here and there of the film \"Exposed\" might have been, especially through the well-photographed upper Manhattan locations that provide a memorably gritty atmosphere. But anyone looking for a good Reeves thriller would be well advised to wait until \"\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8273041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8273041", "title": "Fernando en Filippo", "text": "Fernando en Filippo\n\n\"Fernando en Filippo\" (\"Fernando and Filippo\") was the Dutch entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1966, performed in Dutch by Milly Scott.\n\nThe song tells the story of the title characters. Fernando is a guitarist from Santiago in love with a girl in San Antonio (the exact locations of the two cities is never made clear, and the names may simply be generic Spanish locations, however there is a Santiago and a San Antonio in Chile), whom he drives to see every evening. Filippo's occupation is never made clear, however he also makes a similar trip despite the handicap of apparently not having a car. Eventually, Fernando's lover leaves him for Filippo. Scott also recorded the song in English and Spanish, as \"Fernando and Filipo\" and \"Fernando y Felipe\".\n\nThe song is memorable as featuring the first nonsense refrain in Dutch Eurovision history, a series of nonsense syllables appearing at the beginning and end of the lyrics, usually transcribed as; \"Tong-ki tong ti-ki kong-kong-kong/Ri-ki kong-kong-kong ti-ki kong-kong\".\n\nThe song was performed sixteenth on the night, following France's Dominique Walter with \"Chez nous\" and preceding Ireland's Dickie Rock with \"Come Back to Stay\". At the close of voting, it had received 2 points, placing 15th in a field of 18.\n\nIt was succeeded as Dutch representative at the 1967 Contest by Thérèse Steinmetz with \"Ring-dinge-ding\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7526139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7526139", "title": "Fife Opera House", "text": "Fife Opera House\n\nThe Fife Opera House is a theater in Palestine, Illinois, in Crawford County. It is on the National Register of Historic Places and has been since January 26, 1990.\n\nConstruction at the David Fife Opera House started in 1898 and finished in 1901. In the building David Fife operated a hardware store on the ground floor. Upon completion the opera house seated several hundred in a building that measured 55 X . The raked floor was filled with upholstered, red leather theater seats. Audiences were cooled by electric fans in summer and heat provided by a coal furnace kept them warm in cooler weather. The two original ceiling fixtures included a mirrored collar which reflected the glow of the high wattage light bulbs. At the west end of the building is the stage with a long opening and high, the stage is encircled by 25 lights.\n\nA handpainted rolled canvas fire curtain was hand painted by artists from Sosman and Landes, a Chicago company. The curtain art shows a Venetian canal scene. Side and top panels along the stage depict draperies surrounding a tree-lined river. Recently, other painted scenes showing gardens, waterfalls and a turn of the century scene have been discovered in the building. Fife's mother demanded that one of the building's five interior art panels, the one that featured cherubs, be painted over to cover their nakedness.\n\nIt is said the lights all over Palestine dimmed when Fife threw the switches to the lights at the opera house on opening night.\n\n"}
{"id": "1558634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558634", "title": "GPS drawing", "text": "GPS drawing\n\nGPS Drawing, also known as GPS Art and Strava Art, is a method of drawing where an uses a Global Positioning System (GPS) device and follows a pre planned route to create a large-scale picture or text on a map. Artists usually run or cycle the route though cars, vans, and aeroplanes are used to create larger pieces. \n\nGPS artists can spend many hours finding a certain image or text hidden in a map or can sometimes simply see an existing image in a map due to Pareidolia. In many cities and towns the road layout and landscape restricts the routes available so artisst have to find creative ways to show their pictures or characters. In cities where there is a strong grid pattern an 8-bit style or pixelated images can be created of almost any object or shape. Many artists will create paper or digital maps of their route to follow on their journey.\n\nThere are many approaches to GPS Drawing which an artist can choose depending or their means of travel and the landscape around them.\n\nThis style uses only pre existing roads, paths, trails, etc. which can make it more challenging to find a route and plan the artwork. On the other hand following these paths makes navigation during the journey much easier and the artwork is more likely to reflect the original plan. This is how the majority of GPS artworks are made.\n\nFreehand GPS drawing is where artist creates a shape on open ground without following existing paths which means the artist has to watch their progress in real time on their GPS device. Artists can run or cycle over open ground such as parks, fields, and car parks. Artists in cars and other motor vehicles can draw shapes on large open areas such as deserts, airfields, and beaches. Almost all artworks created by aircraft and watercraft use this technique as they are not restricted by human and physical geography. Freehand GPS drawing opens unlimited possibilities but without waypoints and existing routes it is very easy to loose track of your progress and make mistakes.\n\nBy pausing the GPS device and restarting it at different locations an artist is able to draw straight lines across the map though the built environment and over physical barriers. Though this can create very striking images and open up new possibilities in a city most artists do not use technique.\n\nSome artists add extra images or lines to the map after they have created the route. They can do this to simply add googly eyes to an animal or face or go further add lines and other features which help viewers see what they have drawn. Other times an artist will show a photo or other image alongside their drawing if it is not clear at first glance what has been drawn.\n\nMost people use a route mapping app or other service to display their drawing online and to share on social media. Popular apps include Strava, Map My Run, and Garmin. Many artists also import their route into Google Maps, Open Streetmap, Viweranger, and other map services before capturing the image to display and share. This gives the artist the option of expanding and cropping the image, orienting it another way, or tilting the map to add perspective. Some artists use false color maps then choose contrasting colors for their route to create vivid images.\n\nThe idea was first implemented by artists Hugh Pryor and Jeremy Wood, whose work includes a 13-mile wide fish in Oxfordshire, spiders with legs 21 miles long in Port Meadow, Oxford, and \"the world's biggest 'IF'\": a pair of letters, \"I\", which goes from Iffley in Oxford to Southampton and back, and \"F\" which traverses through the Ifield Road in London down to Iford, East Sussex, through Iford and back up through Ifold in West Sussex. The total length is 537 km, and the height of the drawing in typographic units is 319,334,400 points. Typical computer fonts at standard resolutions are between 8 and 12 points.\n\nIn early 2014 programmer Joe Rosen released a GPS-A-Sketch GPS sketching app for iOS, through the iTunes App Store.\n\nIn 2016, musicians Shaun Buswell & Erik Nyberg travelled around the United Kingdom drawing a 400+ mile penis across England and Scotland.\n\nIn 2018 artist Nathan Rae created a #WeLoveManchester piece as part of the cememorations of the Manchester Arena Bombing. \n\nOne of the most prolific GPS artists is the artist known as WalleyGPX who, as of October 2018, has created over 500 pieces of GPS art. He uses pencil and paper to plan the routes around his home city of Baltimore which he then creates by bicycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "45424193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45424193", "title": "Grandma (film)", "text": "Grandma (film)\n\nGrandma is a 2015 American comedy-drama film written, directed and produced by Paul Weitz. It stars Lily Tomlin as Elle, a lesbian poet and widow whose teenage granddaughter (played by Julia Garner) visits her to ask for money for an abortion. Over the space of a day, they visit numerous people from Elle's past to call in favors in an effort to raise the money.\n\nWeitz wrote the script with Tomlin in mind after working with her on the 2013 film \"Admission\". After she agreed to star, they edited the script together. Most of the other cast members were actors with whom Weitz had previously collaborated. The film was shot over 19 days in Los Angeles in 2014 with a budget of less than $600,000.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival as the closing night feature and was released on August 21, 2015, by Sony Pictures Classics. It grossed $7.1 million at the box office and was well received by critics. The film was named among the top ten independent films of 2015 by the National Board of Review, and Tomlin was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for her performance.\n\nElle is a lesbian poet coping with the recent death of her long-term life partner. She ends a four-month relationship with a younger admirer, Olivia, telling her their relationship meant nothing, before receiving a visit from her 18-year-old granddaughter Sage. Sage is pregnant and requests $630 for an abortion, which is scheduled for that afternoon. As Elle is broke and Sage has had her credit card confiscated by her overbearing mother, the two embark on a road trip across Los Angeles to try and come up with the money.\n\nElle forcefully extorts $50 from the father of the child, and then tries to call in a $400 debt from her friend Deathy, a tattoo artist. Because she is also broke at the time, Deathy cannot help them beyond some $60 she borrows from the register, but gives Elle a new tattoo that looks like the letter \"O\". Sage presumes this to be Olivia's initial, though Elle insists it is only meant to be a circle. Elle tries to sell some of her rare books to an acquaintance, Carla, who owns a café, but gets into a fight with Olivia, who is working there. Elle storms out when Carla, who is much more tech-savvy than Elle, gauges the price of the books on eBay and offers her a paltry $60, and Olivia berates her as they leave.\n\nBecoming desperate, Elle and Sage visit Elle's ex-husband Karl, whom Elle has not seen in decades. She tells him she needs to borrow the money for rent, and he requests a kiss in return. This leads to an argument over how Elle ended their relationship, but when she pleads with him, he agrees to hand over the cash. When he asks her to be honest about the reason for needing the money, she tells him that Sage needs an abortion, and Karl becomes angry and emotional. Elle once aborted his child without telling him, yet went on to give birth to a baby born from a one-night stand. She explains that she wanted a child but not a husband, and Karl angrily insists he will not pay for an abortion.\n\nSage and Elle work up the courage to visit Sage's busy single mother, Judy, who is furious to learn Sage is pregnant. Judy reluctantly produces the money and Elle drives Sage to the abortion clinic. After the procedure, Judy forgives Sage and takes her home. On her own way home, Elle giggles and rejoices at memories of her partner Violet. Before reaching home, she makes a short stop at Olivia's house to apologize for saying their relationship meant nothing. Afterwards, Elle walks down the sidewalk, laughing on her way home.\n\nNumerous commentators have labelled \"Grandma\" a feminist film. \"Bustle\" writer Rachel Simon commented on the unusual fact that the film centers on two women – a septuagenarian lesbian and a pregnant teenager seeking an abortion – and features a supporting cast of characters including \"another lesbian, a trans woman, and a single mom who got pregnant using a sperm donor\". Writer-director Paul Weitz said that he wanted to explore different eras of women's history through the three generations of Elle's family. While Elle was a fighter for women's equality, he saw Judy (a successful businesswoman) as \"a product of it\". He said that Sage, who is largely ignorant of the feminist movement, represented the \"erasure of women's history in the minds of young people now\". \"Variety\" critic Scott Foundas described \"Grandma\" as \"an unforced but unmistakably political survey of three generations of independent womanhood in America\".\n\nThe film has also been described as pro-choice because of its portrayal of abortion. Weitz was influenced by the lack of mainstream films that depict abortion, saying, \"there have been a lot of movies in the past which were unwilling to even use the word, despite millions of women having abortions ... So I just wanted it to be real.\" Several critics praised the film's balanced treatment of abortion: Ty Burr of \"The Boston Globe\" wrote that it was \"neither minimized nor built up into a Major Statement\", while the \"Financial Times\" Danny Leigh appreciated that \"the sad gravity of the premise is not underplayed\". \"The Independent\" critic Geoffrey McNab found it \"heartening to see a film that tackles unintended pregnancy and abortion in a humorous and sensitive way\".\n\nPaul Weitz conceived the idea for the story of \"Grandma\" long before he began writing the script. He never completed the story until he had met and worked with Tomlin on the 2013 film \"Admission,\" saying that \"After meeting Lily, the voice and the character really clicked, I had thought about it for years, so I had a lot of it worked out in my head, and then I just went to a coffee shop and wrote it longhand.\" He said that, as he wrote, he could hear her \"performing it in [his] head\". After writing the script, he was afraid to present it to Tomlin in case she turned down the lead role. Tomlin said that she immediately connected with the character and the story; she and Weitz then spent several months editing the script together. The film marked Tomlin's first leading role in 27 years, after co-starring with Bette Midler in the 1988 comedy film \"Big Business\".\n\nMost of the cast was made up of actors with whom Weitz had previously worked. He directed Marcia Gay Harden in \"American Dreamz\" and decided to cast her as Elle's daughter, since she was the only actress he suggested for the role whom Tomlin \"seemed mildly intimidated by\". He cast Nat Wolff and John Cho after working with them on \"Admission\" and \"American Pie\", respectively; he had also worked with Judy Greer twice before. He contacted Sam Elliott through his brother, Chris Weitz, who had directed Elliott in \"The Golden Compass\". Weitz offered the role of Sage to Julia Garner after seeing her performance in \"Electrick Children\". He wrote Laverne Cox's character for her because he had seen her in \"Orange Is the New Black\", and they refined the details of the character together.\n\nFilming took place in and around Los Angeles in the spring of 2014, and was completed in 19 days after a week of rehearsal. Two scenes were shot in Paul and Chris Weitz's offices. The car driven by Elle, a 1955 Dodge Royal, is actually Tomlin's car; Tomlin also wore her own clothes for the role. The film's total production budget was under $600,000.\n\nThe film had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival on January 30, 2015, as the closing night film. Several days before its premiere, Sony Pictures Classics acquired the distribution rights to the film in the United States. The film went on to screen at the Tribeca Film Festival on April 20, 2015, and opened the Los Angeles Film Festival on June 10. The film was given a limited release in the United States on August 21, 2015, earning $115,540 from four theaters during its opening weekend. It expanded to a wide release on September 18, and earned $1,501,101 from 1,061 theaters during its first weekend in wide release. Overall, the film grossed $6,980,524 over 28 weeks in North American theaters, and $106,928 internationally, for a total of $7,087,452.\n\n\"Grandma\" was first released on DVD, Blu-ray and video on demand on February 9, 2016. The DVD and Blu-ray include an audio commentary with Weitz, Tomlin, Garner and Elliott, as well as a 21-minute interview with Weitz, Tomlin and Elliott. The Blu-ray version includes an additional 25-minute behind the scenes featurette.\n\n\"Grandma\" received a score of 92% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 162 reviews, and an average rating of 7.5/10. The site's consensus reads, \"Boasting a stellar performance from Lily Tomlin and some powerfully empathetic work from writer-director Paul Weitz, \"Grandma\" is a dramedy that shouldn't have to ask you to visit.\" Metacritic gives the film a score of 77 out of 100, based on reviews from 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\n\"The New York Times\" film critic A. O. Scott praised the film's pacing, dialogue, and supporting performances, describing it as \"wry and insightful\". Scott Foundas of \"Variety\" called it \"an initially breezy family comedy about mothers, daughters and abortions that slowly sneaks up on you and packs a major wallop\", praising Weitz's dialogue and the \"devastating\" scene wherein Elle reunites with Karl. Writing for \"New York\", David Edelstein declared that \"\"Grandma\" marks a new era in gay cinema\" and felt that the story was \"schematic but heartfelt\". Brian Moylan of \"The Guardian\" gave the film three out of five stars and wrote, \"Possibly the greatest thing about \"Grandma\" is that it passes the Bechdel test with flying colours, better than any film I've seen recently.\" \"Slant Magazine\"s R. Kurt Osenlund, on the other hand, felt that the plot was contrived and unfulfilling, and described the film as having \"about as many ambitions as it does delusions\".\n\nTomlin has been widely praised for the strength of her performance. A. O. Scott wrote that \"the wonder that is \"Grandma\" can be summed up in two words: Lily Tomlin.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" described the film as \"a Tomlin tour de force\" and wrote that \"Tomlin, the sorceress, leaves you dazzled and devastated.\" The \"San Francisco Chronicle\"s David Lewis cited \"Grandma\" as a career-high performance for Tomlin, describing her work as \"funny, acerbic, touching – and ultimately, exhilarating\". Richard Roeper of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" wrote of Tomlin, \"nearly every moment in this movie is all hers\", predicting award nominations for her performance. In a review of the film for \"The Boston Globe\", Ty Burr offered the summary: \"it stars Lily Tomlin, and that's all you really need to know\".\n\n"}
{"id": "331075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331075", "title": "Henry Irving", "text": "Henry Irving\n\nSir Henry Irving (6 February 1838 – 13 October 1905), born John Henry Brodribb, sometimes known as J. H. Irving, was an English stage actor in the Victorian era, known as an actor-manager because he took complete responsibility (supervision of sets, lighting, direction, casting, as well as playing the leading roles) for season after season at the Lyceum Theatre, establishing himself and his company as representative of English classical theatre. In 1895 he became the first actor to be awarded a knighthood, indicating full acceptance into the higher circles of British society.\n\nIrving is widely acknowledged to be one of the inspirations for Count Dracula, the title character of the 1897 novel \"Dracula\"\nwhose author, Bram Stoker, was business manager of the theatre.\n\nIrving was born to a working-class family in Keinton Mandeville in the county of Somerset. W.H. Davies, the celebrated poet, was a cousin. Irving spent his childhood living with his aunt, Mrs Penberthy, at Halsetown in Cornwall. He competed in a recitation contest at a local Methodist chapel where he was bested by William Curnow, later the editor of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\". He attended City Commercial School for two years before going to work in the office of a law firm at age 13. When he saw Samuel Phelps play Hamlet soon after this, he sought lessons, letters of introduction, and work in a theatre in Sunderland in 1856, labouring against great odds until his 1871 success in \"The Bells\" in London set him apart from all the rest.\n\nHe married Florence O'Callaghan on 15 July 1869 at St. Marylebone, London, but his personal life took second place to his professional life. On opening night of \"The Bells\", 25 November 1871, Florence, who was pregnant with their second child, criticised his profession: \"Are you going on making a fool of yourself like this all your life?\" Irving exited their carriage at Hyde Park Corner, walked off into the night, and chose never to see her again. He maintained a discreet distance from his children as well, but became closer to them as they grew older. Florence Irving never divorced Irving, and once he had been knighted she styled herself \"Lady Irving\"; Irving never remarried.\nHis elder son, Harry Brodribb Irving (1870–1919), usually known as \"H B Irving\", became a famous actor and later a theatre manager. His younger son, Laurence Irving (1871–1914), became a dramatist and later drowned, with his wife, in the sinking of the \"Empress of Ireland\". H B married Dorothea Baird and they had a son, Laurence Irving (1897–1988), who became a well-known Hollywood art director and his grandfather's biographer.\n\nIn November 1882 Irving became a Freemason, being initiated into the prestigious Jerusalem Lodge No 197 in London. In 1887 he became a founder member and first Treasurer of the Savage Club Lodge No 2190, a Lodge associated with London's Savage Club.\n\nHe eventually took over the management of the Lyceum Theatre and brought actress Ellen Terry into partnership with him as Ophelia to his Hamlet, Lady Macbeth to his Macbeth, Portia to his Shylock, Beatrice to his Benedick, etc. Before joining the Lyceum, Terry had fled her first marriage and conceived two out-of-wedlock children with bohemian artist Godwin, but regardless of how much and how often her behavior defied the strict morality expected by her Victorian audiences, she somehow remained popular. It could be said that Irving found his family in his professional company, which included his ardent supporter and manager Bram Stoker and Terry's two illegitimate children, Teddy and Edy.\n\nWhether Irving's long, spectacularly successful relationship with leading lady Ellen Terry was romantic as well as professional has been the subject of much historical speculation. Most of their correspondence was lost or burned by her descendants. According to Michael Holroyd's book about Irving and Terry, \"A Strange Eventful History\":\n\nTerry's son Teddy, later known as Edward Gordon Craig, spent much of his childhood (from 1879, when he was 8, until 1897) indulged by Irving backstage at the Lyceum. Craig, who came to be regarded as something of a visionary for the theatre of the future, wrote an especially vivid, book-length tribute to Irving. (\"Let me state at once, in clearest unmistakable terms, that I have never known of, or seen, or heard, a greater actor than was Irving.\") George Bernard Shaw, at the time a theatre critic who was jealous of Irving's connection to Ellen Terry (whom Shaw himself wanted in his own plays), conceded Irving's genius after Irving died.\n\nAfter a few years' schooling while living at Halsetown, near St Ives, Cornwall, Irving became a clerk to a firm of East India merchants in London, but he soon gave up a commercial career for acting. On 29 September 1856 he made his first appearance at Sunderland as Gaston, Duke of Orleans, in Bulwer Lytton's play, \"Richelieu\", billed as Henry Irving. This name he eventually assumed by royal licence. When the inexperienced Irving got stage fright and was hissed off the stage the actor Samuel Johnson was among those who supported him with practical advice. Later in life Irving gave them all regular work when he formed his own Company at the Lyceum Theatre.\n\nFor 10 years, he went through an arduous training in various stock companies in Scotland and the north of England, taking more than 500 parts.\n\nHe gained recognition by degrees, and in 1866 Ruth Herbert engaged him as her leading man and sometime stage director at the St. James's Theatre, London, where she first played Doricourt in \"The Belle's Stratagem\". One piece that he directed there was W. S. Gilbert's first successful solo play, \"Dulcamara, or the Little Duck and the Great Quack\" (1866) The next year he joined the company of the newly opened Queen's Theatre, where he acted with Charles Wyndham, J. L. Toole, Lionel Brough, John Clayton, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Wigan, Ellen Terry and Nellie Farren. This was followed by short engagements at the Haymarket Theatre, Drury Lane, and the Gaiety Theatre. Finally he made his first conspicuous success as Digby Grant in James Albery's \"Two Roses\", which was produced at the Vaudeville Theatre on 4 June 1870 and ran for a very successful 300 nights.\n\nIn 1871, Irving began his association with the Lyceum Theatre by an engagement under Bateman's management. The fortunes of the house were at a low ebb when the tide was turned by Irving's sudden success as Mathias in \"The Bells,\" a version of Erckmann-Chatrian's \"Le Juif polonais\" by Leopold Lewis, a property which Irving had found for himself. The play ran for 150 nights, established Irving at the forefront of the British drama, and would prove a popular vehicle for Irving for the rest of his professional life. With Bateman, Irving was seen in W. G. Wills' \"Charles I\" and \"Eugene Aram\", in \"Richelieu\", and in 1874 in \"Hamlet\". The unconventionality of this last performance, during a run of 200 nights, aroused keen discussion and singled him out as the most interesting English actor of his day. In 1875, again with Bateman, he was seen as the title character in \"Macbeth\"; in 1876 as Othello, and as Philip in Alfred Lord Tennyson's \"Queen Mary\"; in 1877 in \"Richard III\"; and in The Lyons \"Mail\". During this time he became lifelong friends with Bram Stoker, who praised him in his review of \"Hamlet\" and thereafter joined Irving as the manager for the company.\n\nIn 1878, Irving entered into a partnership with actress Ellen Terry and re-opened the Lyceum under his own management. With Terry as Ophelia and Portia, he revived \"Hamlet\" and produced \"The Merchant of Venice\" (1879). His Shylock was as much discussed as his Hamlet had been, the dignity with which he invested the vengeful Jewish merchant marking a departure from the traditional interpretation of the role.\nAfter the production of Tennyson's \"The Cup\" and revivals of \"Othello\" (in which Irving played Iago to Edwin Booth's title character) and \"Romeo and Juliet\", there began a period at the Lyceum which had a potent effect on the English stage.\n\n\"Much Ado about Nothing\" (1882) was followed by \"Twelfth Night\" (1884); an adaptation of Goldsmith's \"Vicar of Wakefield\" by W. G. Wills (1885); \"Faust\" (1886); \"Macbeth\" (1888, with incidental music by Arthur Sullivan); \"The Dead Heart\", by Watts Phillips (1889); \"Ravenswood\" by Herman, and Merivales' dramatic version of Scott's \"Bride of Lammermoor\" (1890). Portrayals in 1892 of the characters of Wolsey in \"Henry VIII\" and of the title character in \"King Lear\" were followed in 1893 by a performance of Becket in Tennyson's play of the same name. During these years, too, Irving, with the whole Lyceum company, paid several successful visits to the United States and Canada, which were repeated in succeeding years. As Terry aged, there seemed to be fewer opportunities for her in his company; that was one reason she eventually left, moving on into less steady but nonetheless beloved stage work, including solo performances of Shakespeare's women.\n\nFrom 1878, Bram Stoker worked for Irving as a business manager at the Lyceum. Stoker idolised Irving to the point that \"As one contemporary remarked, 'To Bram, Irving is as a god, and can do no wrong.' In the considered judgment of one biographer, Stoker's friendship with Irving was 'the most important love relationship of his adult life.'\" Irving, however, \"… was a self-absorbed and profoundly manipulative man. He enjoyed cultivating rivalries between his followers, and to remain in his circle required constant, careful courting of his notoriously fickle affections.\" When Stoker began writing \"Dracula\", Irving was the chief inspiration for the title character. In his 2002 paper for \"The American Historical Review\", \"Buffalo Bill Meets Dracula: William F. Cody, Bram Stoker, and the Frontiers of Racial Decay\", historian Louis S. Warren writes:\n\nThe chief remaining novelties at the Lyceum during Irving's term as sole manager (at the beginning of 1899 the theatre passed into the hands of a limited-liability company) were Arthur Conan Doyle's \"Waterloo\" (1894); J. Comyns Carr's \"King Arthur\" in 1895; \"Cymbeline\", in which Irving played Iachimo, in 1896; Sardou's \"Madame Sans-Gene\" in 1897; and \"Peter the Great\", a play by Laurence Irving, the actor's second son, in 1898.\n\nIrving received a death threat in 1899 from fellow actor (and murderer of William Terriss) Richard Prince. Terriss had been stabbed at the stage door of the Adelphi Theatre in December 1897 and in the wake of his death, Prince was committed to Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum. Irving was critical of the unusually lenient sentence, remarking 'Terriss was an actor, so his murderer will not be executed.' Two years later, Prince had found Irving's home address and threatened to murder him 'when he gets out'. Irving was advised to submit the letter to the Home Office to ensure Prince's continued incarceration, which Irving declined to do.\nIn 1898 Irving was Rede Lecturer at the University of Cambridge. The new regime at the Lyceum was signalled by the production of Sardou's \"Robespierre\" in 1899, in which Irving reappeared after a serious illness, and in 1901 by an elaborate revival of \"Coriolanus\". Irving's only subsequent production in London was as Sardou's \"Dante\" (1903) at the Drury Lane.\n\nOn 13 October 1905, at 67 years old, Irving was taking part in a performance while on tour in Bradford, when he suffered a stroke. He was taken to the lobby of the Midland Hotel, Bradford, where he died shortly afterwards. His death was described by Thomas Anstey Guthrie in his 'Long Retrospect':\n\nThe chair that he was sitting in when he died is now at the Garrick Club. He was cremated and his ashes buried in Westminster Abbey, thereby becoming the first person ever to be cremated prior to interment at Westminster.\n\nThere is a statue of him near the National Portrait Gallery in London. That statue, as well as the influence of Irving himself, plays an important part in the Robertson Davies novel \"World of Wonders\". The Irving Memorial Garden was opened on 19 July 1951 by Laurence Olivier.\n\nBoth on and off the stage, Irving always maintained a high ideal of his profession, and in 1895 he received a knighthood (first offered in 1883), the first ever accorded an actor. He was also the recipient of honorary degrees from the universities of Dublin (LL.D 1892), Cambridge (Litt.D 1898), and Glasgow (LL.D 1899). He also received the Komthur Cross, 2nd class, of the Saxe-Ernestine House Order of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha and Saxe-Meiningen.\n\nHis acting divided critics; opinions differed as to the extent to which his mannerisms of voice and deportment interfered with or assisted the expression of his ideas.\nIrving's idiosyncratic style of acting and its effect on amateur players was mildly satirised in \"The Diary of a Nobody\". Mr Pooter's son brings Mr Burwin-Fosselton of the Holloway Comedians to supper, a young man who entirely monopolised the conversation, and:\n\n\"...who not only looked rather like Mr Irving but seemed to imagine he \"was\" the celebrated actor... he began doing the Irving business all through supper. He sank so low down in his chair that his chin was almost on a level with the table, and twice he kicked Carrie under the table, upset his wine, and flashed a knife uncomfortably near Gowing's face.\"\n\nIn the musical comedy \"Half a Sixpence\" the actor Chitterlow does an impression of Irving in \"The Bells\".\n\nPercy French's burlesque heroic poem \"Abdul Abulbul Amir\" lists among the mock-heroic attributes of Abdul's adversary, the Russian Count Ivan Skavinsky Skavar, that \"he could imitate Irving\".\n\nIn the film \"A Midwinter's Tale\" by Kenneth Branagh, two actors discuss Irving, and one of them, Richard Briers does an imitation of his speech.\n\nIn the play \"The Woman in Black\", set in the Victorian era, the Actor playing Kipps tells Kipps 'We'll make an Irving of you yet,' in Act 1, as Kipps is not a very good actor due to his inexperience.\nIn 1906 Bram Stoker published a two-volume biography about Irving called \"Personal Reminiscences of Henry Irving\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33178565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33178565", "title": "Illusion and Reality", "text": "Illusion and Reality\n\nIllusion and Reality is a book of Marxist literary criticism by Christopher Caudwell published in 1937.\n\n\"Illusion and Reality\" was written quickly during the summer of 1935, while Caudwell was in the process of a political conversion to Marxism. Portions of the manuscript were produced at a rate of 5,000 words a day. In its use of political theory and history the book was influenced by the philosophy of Karl Marx, but it also was strongly indebted to the literary criticism of I. A. Richards.\n\nCaudwell develops two main arguments in \"Illusion and Reality\". First, each unique era of British poetry (\"The Romantic Period\", \"The Age of Pope\", etc.) develops from a particular economic arrangement in bourgeois society. Caudwell writes:\nCaudwell, here, is working within the Marxist framework of base and superstructure and argues that both the poetic form and the content are determined by the economic base. To further illustrate this point \"Illusion and Reality\" includes a table that outlines the \"General Characteristics\" of the capitalist economy in Great Britain during ten different eras and their related bourgeois poetic forms, or \"Technical Characteristics,\" from that same period. For example, Caudwell writes:\nThe table provides an outline for the historical progression of forms that Caudwell examines in \"Illusion and Reality\" and exemplifies the connection Caudwell sees between poetry and economic social relations.\n\nCaudwell's second major claim is that the act of creating poetry is a response by human instincts to the unfavorable conditions of bourgeois life. In this argument, Caudwell modifies the Freudian understanding of the creative process through Marx.\n\n\"Illusion and Reality\" was published shortly after Caudwell's death and was welcomed by Marxist critics who viewed Caudwell as something of a martyr. Among the non-Marxist literary establishment it received little notice.\n\nIn the Winter (1950–51) issue of The Modern Quarterly, Maurice Cornforth published an article that challenged Caudwell's opinion of poetry—particularly as it appeared in \"Illusion and Reality\". Cornforth argued that Caudwell's theory of poetry was idealized, dependent on a Freudian concept of pre-social 'instincts' that was incompatible with Marxism. George Thompson answered Cornforth in the next issue (Spring 1951) by reaffirming \"Illusion and Reality\"'s contribution to Literary criticism. The next two issues (Summer and Autumn) saw the publication of another twelve responses, all differing on the value of Caudwell's theory. Further responses were also published in journals in both Great Britain and the United States. The debate provoked a re-evaluation of \"Illusion and Reality\" and 'The Caudwell Controversy' became an important intellectual moment in the evolution of the British Socialist movement.\n\nAs Marxist Literary theory underwent a 'cultural turn,' \"Illusion and Reality\" was increasingly seen as dogmatic and rigid in its discussion of bourgeois poetry. The debate shifted away from its use of Freudian concepts to its ties with Stalinist Marxism. In Culture and Society (1958), Raymond Williams said of \"Illusion and Reality\" that it had \"little to say of actual literature that is even interesting\" and that the book \"is not even specific enough to be wrong.\" Terry Eagleton remarked about Caudwell in 1976 that \"there is little, except negatively, to be learnt from him.\" Even E. P. Thompson, one of Caudwell's most generous late-interpreters, argued that the status of \"Illusion and Reality\" should be downgraded among Caudwell's works in favor of Studies in a Dying Culture (1938). From the late 1950s until the late 1980s, \"Illusion and Reality\" was equated with vulgar Marxism. However, Christopher Pawling's 1989 book on Caudwell sought to restore the reputation of \"Illusion and Reality\" by suggesting that it belongs to what Raymond Williams called an \"alternative Marxist tradition\" that included Antonio Gramsci, György Lukács, and Lucien Goldmann.\n"}
{"id": "20954590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20954590", "title": "Infinity Hall", "text": "Infinity Hall\n\nInfinity Hall is an American performing arts venue located in Norfolk, Connecticut, located in a historic building from 1883. Another venue also named Infinity Hall is operated by the same company in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nThe venue was constructed in 1883 and originally functioned as a combination opera house, barber shop and saloon. The building was chartered as the Norfolk Village Hall, although it was commonly known as the Norfolk Opera House. It was designed by the architect George Palliser, from Bridgeport, Connecticut, who published its design in his book, \"Palliser's Court Houses, Village, Town and City Halls, Jails and Plans of Other Public Buildings\" (1889).\n\nThe Norfolk Opera House hosted vaudeville and theatrical presentations until the late 1940s. For the following four decades, it was used as a restaurant and a grocery store. The building was closed in 1994 and remained vacant for four years.\nIn 1998 Kimberly Gelvin-Melville (now Kimberly Gelvin-Wilks) was given \"right to first refusal\" to try to get the townspeople or someone else to buy and restore the old opera house as a theater and not apartments or offices. She then produced a theater play in the dead of winter to try to draw public awareness of this glorious opera house she wished to run her own theater company in with the help of Trustees. The Four Poster was produced at The White Hart Inn in Salisbury and the Smithies saw the article in the tristate paper, Litchfield Times, about the building and Kimberly Gelvin-Melville's desire to save it. She gave the Smithies permission to purchase it because they liked all of her ideas to turn it back into a theater and run shops downstairs to help finance it. In 1998, the building was purchased by playwrights and theater producers Maura Cavanaugh and Richard Smithies for US$50,000, who undertook a US$650,000 restoration that included the rebuilding of an observation tower that was part of the original structure. Cavanaugh and Smithies renamed the venue the Greenwoods Theater and brought dramatic and musical productions to its stage. Mr. Smithie had asked Kimberly to play Cleopatra in a future production but sadly Mrs. Cavanaugh Smithie decided she did not wish to include Kimberly as a director or actress for fear of her getting the credit for their restorations. The theater was restored and Kimberly attended the opening but then returned to live in Australia with her former husband and daughter.\n\nCavanaugh and Smithies operated the Greenwoods Theater until early 2007, when financial difficulties forced them to close the venue.\n\nThe venue was purchased by Dan Hincks for US $240,000 in a tax auction on February 3, 2007. Hincks, the chief executive officer of the Farmington, Connecticut-based printing and publishing business Data Management, undertook further interior and exterior restorations of the venue, including substantial structural improvements, a new restaurant named Infinity Bistro, a Meyer sound system, modern green room facilities, cabaret mezzanine seating, new wood finishing and expansion of the lower level. The resulting renovation created a 300-seat performing arts theater and restaurant destination. Hincks renamed the venue as Infinity Hall, telling an interviewer: \"I called it Infinity because the sky is the limit when it comes to bringing people together with music.\"\n\nInfinity Hall's opening night was October 17, 2008, with a concert by singer Kenny Rankin. Subsequent concerts featuring Melissa Manchester, Spyro Gyra, Richie Havens and Todd Rundgren. In May 2009, an in-house bistro was opened. In its first two years, Infinity Hall hosted more than 400 concerts attracting in excess of 80,000 patrons. In 2010, Infinity Music Hall was voted Best Music Hall in New England by \"Yankee\" magazine.\n\nInfinity Bistro, which opened May 1, 2009, was voted Best New Restaurant in Litchfield County and runner-up statewide in 2010 by a readers poll for \"Connecticut Magazine\".\n\nBeginning in 2012, Connecticut Public Television and American Public Television began a series of live musical performances at Infinity Hall by well-known artists as part of their \"Infinity Hall Live\" television series.\n\nInfinity Hall, Hartford is located in a modern building on 32 Front Street, in the Front Street Entertainment District, near the Connecticut Convention Center. It seats about 500 total – 415 on the stage level plus 90 in the mezzanine. The mezzanine offers full wait service for dining before and during shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "25407989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25407989", "title": "L Prize", "text": "L Prize\n\nThe L Prize (aka the Bright Tomorrow Lighting Prize) is a competition run by the United States Department of Energy aimed to \"spur lighting manufacturers to develop high-quality, high-efficiency solid-state lighting products to replace the common incandescent light bulb\".\n\nThe competition, launched in May 2008 at Lightfair, offers two prizes for the replacement of two types of bulb, an A19 60-watt incandescent light bulb and a PAR 38 halogen incandescent bulb. The prize fund for the 60 W replacement is up to a maximum of US$10 million and for the PAR 38 up to US$5 million.\nThere is a third category, yet to be publicly defined, called the 21st-century lamp.\n\nThe competition has set out various qualifying requirements for the replacement bulbs summarized in the table below:\n\nIt was announced on 3 August 2011, that the winner of the 60 W replacement bulb competition was a bulb made by Philips. The winning bulb was a LED lamp using less than 10 watts and emitting the equivalent amount of light as a traditional 60-watt incandescent bulb. That amounts to an 83% energy savings. It was announced that Philips would be given the US$10 million cash prize. The bulb was released commercially in February 2012 through several online sellers. The widespread launch at retail stores, however, was not until Earth Day, April 22. Although the subsidized price was expected to be $22 in the first year, $15 in the second and $8 in the third, the bulb was initially selling for $50–$60 (without rebates) as of July 2012. As of March, 2013 Home Depot began offering the bulbs for $15 in stores. Many stores sold out, and according to Philips customer service the L-prize bulb has been discontinued.\n\nThe winning bulb is able to achieve all of the required specifications by using red and blue LEDs that excite yellow phosphors, which emits the required color of light. This is in contrast to most other LED lights, which use white LEDs to emit light that lacks all of the required characteristics for the L-Prize.\n\nThe rules for the PAR 38 lightbulb competition were retooled in July, 2012, keeping the same main specifications. As of June 13, 2014, the competition has been suspended.\n\nOn August 1, 2011, Cree announced that they had created a bulb that would exceed the DOE specifications for a 21st-century lamp. It emitted 1,300 lumens at 152 lumens per watt with a CRI of 91.2 and a color temperature of 2800 K. They also stated at the time that they would not be bringing the bulb to market. As of March, 2013 they had not brought the bulb or any bulb like it to market.\n\n"}
{"id": "41478289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41478289", "title": "La Operación", "text": "La Operación\n\nLa Operación is a 1982 forty-minute documentary film by Ana María García about US-imposed sterilization policies in Puerto Rico, exploring the mass sterilization of Puerto Rican women during the 1950s and 1960s. Garcia blends interviews with women of different ethnic and class backgrounds who have gone through the sterilization process. She intercuts these interviews with vertite and historical footage to create a powerful look at this decades-long practice.\n"}
{"id": "18784723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18784723", "title": "Light art", "text": "Light art\n\nLight art or luminism is an applied art form in which light is the main medium of expression. It is an art form in which either a sculpture produces light, or light is used to create a \"sculpture\" through the manipulation of light, colours, and shadows. These sculptures can be temporary or permanent, and can exist in two distinctive spaces: indoor galleries, such as museum exhibits, or outdoors at events like festivals. Light art can be an interaction of light with in an architectural space. Light artists are those that devote all their creative experimentation to light art, some artists experiment with light and neon signage and use light in their practice.\n\nThe first examples of modern light art appeared after the discovery of electric lighting made longterm lighting safe and affordable at the end of the 19th century. Light art however didn't become a dedicated form of art until the late 20th century, due in large part due to pioneering work begun in 1969, as part of an experimental program at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, by Robert Irwin and James Turrell. \n\nLight has been used for architectural effect throughout human history. However, the modern concept of light art emerged with the development of artificial electric incandescent light sources and experimentation by modern artists of the Constructivist and Bauhaus movements. \"\"Prounenraum\" (\"Proun Room\") (1923), by El Lissitzky, is considered by many art historians to be the first time an artist incorporated architectural lighting elements as a component integral to his work.\" The first object-based light sculpture was the \"Light-Space Modulator\" (1922-1930), by László Moholy-Nagy. Experimentation and innovations in theatrical light have often influenced other areas of light use such as light art. The development of Modernism and the electric light go hand-in-hand; the idea of the modern city with high-rises and electric light epitomizes this development.\n\nAll visual art uses light in some form, but in modern photography and motion pictures, use of light is especially important. However, with the invention of electrical artificial light, possibilities expanded and many artists began using light as the main form of expression, rather than solely as a vehicle for other forms of art. Constructivist Naum Gabo experimented with the transparent materiality light reflects on an object; his \"Linear Construction No. 1\" (1943) provides an example of this. Marcel Duchamp's \"Hat Rack\" (1916 and 1964), hangs from the ceiling and casts a shadow against the wall.\n\nArt critic Hilarie M. Sheets explains that \"the interplay of dark and light has been a theme running from Greek and Roman sculpture to Renaissance painting to experimental film. But as technology advanced from the glow of the electric light bulb to the computer monitor, artists have been experimenting with actual light as material and subject.\"\n\nClosely associated art forms are projectors, 3-D map projection, multi-media, video art, and photography where light technology \"projects\" images rather than using light as the medium. Large light festivals and events have helped to develop the use of light on large canvases such as architectural facades, building projections, the flood lighting of buildings with colour, and interactive media facades. These forms of light art have their antecedents in new media-based, video art and photography which are sometimes classified as light art since light and movement are important to the work.\n\nAlso included in the light art genre is the so-called light graffiti including projection onto buildings, arrangement of lighted windows in buildings, and painting with hand-held lights onto film using time exposure.\n\nAn example of a light art installation was that of artists Mel and Dorothy Tanner, who began adding light to their paintings and sculptures at their studio in Miami, Florida in 1967. This was the same time period as that of Light and Space artists James Turrell and Robert Irwin in Los Angeles, on the opposite U.S. coast. The Tanners worked very closely for over 40 years until Mel Tanner died in 1993. Their main project was the creation of \"Lumonics\" that consists of their light sculptures, live projection, video, electronics and music as a total art installation. Author and art historian, Michael Betancourt described this conceptual art as a Gesamtkunstwerk in his book, \"The Lumonics Theater: The Art of Mel & Dorothy Tanner\"\",\" published in 2004. Dorothy Tanner, born in 1923, continues her light art from her studio in Denver, and co-directs the Lumonics School of Light Art with Marc Billard. \n\n \n\nMany modern art museums include light sculptures and installations in their permanent and temporary collections. The Centre for International Light Art in Unna, Germany is currently the world's only museum dedicated exclusively to the collection and presentation of light art.\n\nThe Light Art Museum in Eindhoven, Netherlands, another museum dedicated to the display of light art, closed on December 5, 2010 due to insufficient funding, but at the Strijp-S complex, one can see the Fakkel by Har Hollands, Daan Roosegaarde's Crystal as well as part of the light festival GLOW.\n\nMany well-known art museums, such as the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, often have temporary light art exhibits and installations in their galleries.\n\nLight festivals and the smart city LED revolution was driven by outdoor urban light sculpture with low energy LED luminaires. Light artists were able to create new exhibition spaces collectively in the form of light art festivals. These festivals have continued to grow internationally and help to highlight ecological change. This LED low energy movement dates back to the 2009 by the Vivid Smart Light Festival in Sydney. In Singapore, the i Light Marina Bay festival—Asia's only sustainable light festival—was first hosted in 2010. There are many light art festivals, especially in Europe, including the Signal Festival in Prague and the Ghent Light Festival. Light festivals and LEDS have redefined light art as an art genre.\n\nThe International Light Art Award, presented by the Centre for International Light Art Unna and the RWE Foundation, is given to up-and-coming artists who will contribute \"to the development of light art in an innovative and creative way\" and has been in existence since 2015.\n\nThe award is meant to encourage artists to explore light art, despite the difficulties the relatively new style faces, including the financial and technical requirements needed for a light art exhibit. The foundations behind the ILAA also wish to put emphasis on sustainability and new technologies within the medium of light expression.\n\nThe Australian and New Zealand Engineering Illumination Society ANZIES began giving an annual award to light artists at the Vivid Light Festival in 2010. \nVivid Light festival grants help support local and international light artists in the pursuit of their medium.\n2015 The DARC awards, supported by Mondo Arc Magazine, began selecting winners for their light art awards.\nThe International Association of Lighting Design the IALD, a North American-based organization, also gives out an annual award for light art.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2791619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2791619", "title": "List of Archibald Prize 2004 finalists", "text": "List of Archibald Prize 2004 finalists\n\nThis is a list of finalists for the 2004 Archibald Prize for portraiture (listed is Artist – \"Title\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47262468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262468", "title": "List of biographical dictionaries of women writers in English", "text": "List of biographical dictionaries of women writers in English\n\nThere are a large and ever growing number of biographical dictionaries of women writers. These works reflect the emergence of women's literature as a flourishing field of academic study over the past few decades. The genre also draws on a much older literary tradition of biographical collections of exemplary women.\n\nThis list includes biobibliographical dictionaries, in which biographical detail is provided alongside bibliographical information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26391872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26391872", "title": "List of books about bacon", "text": "List of books about bacon\n\nThis is a bibliography of works about bacon, including cookbooks and history books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6895783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6895783", "title": "Literature circle", "text": "Literature circle\n\nA literature circle is equivalent of an adult book club, but with greater structure, expectation and rigor. The aim is to encourage thoughtful discussion and a love of reading in young people. The true intent of literature circles is \"to allow students to practice and develop the skills and strategies of good readers\" (DaLie, 2001).\n\nLiterature circles were first implemented in 1982 by Karen Smith, an elementary school teacher in Phoenix, Arizona. Handed a box of odd-and-end novels by a fellow teacher, Karen took them and promptly forgot about them. Later that year, some of her fifth grade students expressed an interest in reading them, organized themselves loosely into groups, and started to discuss the novels. Smith was surprised at the degree of their engagement with the books and the complexity of their discussions, they had no outside help or instruction from their teacher (Daniels, 1994). From here literature circles evolved into reading, study and discussion groups based around different groupings of students reading a variety of different novels. They differ from traditional English instruction where students in classroom all read one “core” novel, often looking to the teacher for the answers and the meaning and literary analysis of the text. They highlight discussion, student response, free choice, and collaboration, \"providing a way for students to engage in critical thinking and reflection\" (Literature Circles Resource Center Schlick Noe, 2004). Well-run literature circles highlight student choice; occur over an extended period of time as part of a Balanced Literacy program; involve numerous structured and unstructured opportunities for student response and interpretation; and incorporate assessment and evaluation that includes self-assessment and numerous extension projects. Research on literature circles is conducted primarily by Harvey Daniels (1994, 2002, 2004), Katherine L. Schlick Noe (1995, 1999, 2001, 2003), Bonnie Campbell Hill (1995, 2001, 2003), and Nancy J. Johnson (1995, 1999, 2001); they are credited with most of the research and teacher resources around this approach to student choice and reading; however, numerous other researchers, including Kathy Short and Kathryn Mitchell Pierce (1990), Jerome Harste, Kathy Short and Carolyn Burke (1988), Katherine Samway (1991), Suzi Keegan and Karen Shrake (1991) have conducted research and classroom-based studies. This approach to reading and learning looks to some of the best practices and theory from collaborative learning and scaffolding theory. Reader-response criticism, independent reading, and student-centered learning comprise most of the theoretical underpinning of literature circles.\n\nLiterature circles combine the best practices of collaborative learning and student-directed learning. They are not to be confused with book discussion clubs, currently popular in some circles. While both book clubs and literature circles focus on discussion of books in small group settings, book clubs have a more loosely structured agenda for discussions and are not usually tied into literary analysis such as thematic or symbolic analysis. Furthermore, literature circles are the domain of the classroom, both at the elementary and secondary level, and involve various types of assessment (including self-assessment, observations and conferences) and evaluation (portfolios, projects and student artifacts) by both the teacher and the student. Literature circles are a pedagogically sound alternative to teacher-centered discourse. They can be used at all grade and ability levels, and are often credited with instilling a love of reading and discussion in students. Furthermore, current research indicates that peer collaboration has a positive effect on student learning and performance in Language Arts (Fall \"et al\"., 2000), increases student learning, and also improves reading comprehension and content-knowledge (Klinger, Vaugn and Schumm, 1998, cited in Daniels, 2002).\n\n(Daniels, 1994)\n\nDiscussion prompts can be given by the teacher to encourage a direction for the students' responses, such as \"How does the setting affect the characters?\" \"What are alternative solutions to the character's conflicts in the text?\" \"What connections can you make with regard to the character's situation(s)?\"\n\nStudents begin literature circles by participating in mini-lessons on how to participate in a discussion group. To begin with they may be given role sheets to assist them in taking notes on their reading and preparing for the discussion.\n\nSticky notes (e.g. PostIt notes) are often distributed by teachers to assist students in recording their thoughts about text elements, as they make access easy to various pages in the book. Clip boards may assist children in using their role sheets when groups use floor space to conduct their discussions. \n\nAs group discussions evolve and improve, ideally the role sheets should eventually be used only for redirecting the discussion when students get off-track. In fact, Daniels notes that \"the goal of role sheets is to make the role sheets obsolete\" (Daniels, 1994, p. 75). What he means by this is that role sheets help students stay on task and focus their discussions. As students become more comfortable in their groups and learn the level of discourse and response that is expected of them, ideally they will no longer need the role sheets at all: \"In many classrooms, the role sheets are abandoned as soon as groups are capable of lively, text-centered, multifaceted discussions\" (Daniels, 1994, p. 75). Schlick Noe and Johnson note that role sheets take focus and energy away from group discussions: \"Students can learn collaborative and individual accountability strategies to make their discussions work without the constraints of role sheets\" (Schlick Noe and Johnson, 1999, cited from Literature Circles Resource Center) Most teachers starting out may, however, wish to assign roles to students to help them learn some of the structures of Literature Circles and to aid in classroom management.\n\nThe following is a list of roles which give a thinking task to each group member. Students divide the tasks among themselves in each group. As the groups reconvene each session, students switch roles, so that by the end of the literature circles \"unit,\" each student will have the opportunity to participate in each role. Again, the ideal is to eventually do away with the roles, although many teachers opt to continue using the roles to assist group on-task behaviour. One thing to keep in mind: Readers who are deeply engaged with a book and eager to talk about it with others may not need the structure of roles. Many teachers discover that the roles feel restrictive to some students and can become a disincentive to take part in literature circles. Harvey Daniels always intended roles to be a temporary scaffold to support students as they learn to talk about books in small groups.\n\nThis role involves developing a list of questions that the group might discuss about the section of the novel to be discussed for that meeting. Questions should be designed to promote lively conversation and insights about the book; they should be open questions. A person with this task asks these questions of the group to prompt discussion; overall, the job is to keep the group talking and on-task. Questions that a student might ask could be: \"What was going through your mind when you read this passage?\" or \"How did the main character change as a result of this incident?\"\n\nThis role involves locating a few significant passages of text that are thought-provoking, funny, interesting, disturbing, or powerful. The quotations are copied down with properly cited page numbers. A student with this task can read the passages out loud him/herself or ask other group members to read as well. Commentary and discussion will be generated from these passages.\nand also draw a part of the scene that locates where the person took place\n\nAs the term implies, this job entails drawing, sketching, or painting a picture, portrait or scene relating to the appropriate section of the novel. Collages from magazines, images from the internet, and other media can also be used. The student with this role then shares the artwork with the group, explaining the passage(s) that relate to the art. Often students who do not like to write do very well with this role. The pictures usually generate interesting group conversations.\n\nThis role involves locating several significant passages in the novel and connecting these passages to real life. The connections might relate to school, friends or family, home, the community, or they might relate to movies, celebrities, the media etc. Students should also feel free to connect incidents or characters with other books that they have read. Of all the roles, this role is often the most personal in its focus.\n\nThis role involves preparing a brief summary of the reading that was assigned for that day's meeting. The summary should include the main ideas or events to remember, major characters, symbols or other significant highlights of the passage. Good summarizers are important to literature circles, as they can help their peers see the overall picture (DaLie, 2001). Also include important events and details.\n\nAlso called the Word Master or Word Wizard, this role is to record important words for that day's reading. Words that are unusual, unknown, or that stand out in some way are usually chosen by the student. Their page number and definition is also recorded. Often students do not see this role as particularly stimulating; however, it can be a role suited to students who are still developing confidence in English classes or textual analysis.\n\nThis role involves recording where the major shifts in action or location take place in the novel for the reading section. Keeping track of shifts in place, time, and characters helps students keep track of important shifts in the novel. Artistic students also are drawn to this role, as artwork can be incorporated into this role as well. The student's role is to describe each setting in detail, using words or maps that illustrate the action.\n\nThis role includes investigative work where background information needs to be found on any topic relating to the book. Historical, geographical, cultural, musical or other information that would help readers connect to the novel is often researched and shared with the group. The research is informal in nature, providing small bits of information in order that others can better understand the novel.\n\nThis role includes identification of various types of figurative language, including but not limited to simile, metaphor, personification, hyperbole, and idiom. This may lead to discussion about the author's craft - why the author chose to use those particular words or phrases, and whether or not they were effective. This in-context identification can be more relevant and memorable than isolated instruction by the teacher of these types of tools.\n\nMost teachers assess and evaluate what students do in Literature Circles. This may involve one or several of the following assessment(s) and evaluation(s):\n\n\n\n\n\nartifacts\n"}
{"id": "90844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90844", "title": "Mama Ocllo", "text": "Mama Ocllo\n\nIn Inca mythology, Mama Cora Ocllo , Mama Ocllo, Mama Ogllo, Mama Oello (in Hispanicized spellings), Mama Oella, Mama Oullo, Mama Occlo (spellings resulting from bad OCR), Mama Okllo or Mama Uqllu (Quechua) was deified as a mother and fertility goddess. In one legend she was a daughter of Inti and Mama Killa, and in another the daughter of Viracocha (Wiraqucha) and Mama Qucha. She was the sister and wife of Manco Cápac (Manqu Qhapaq) and discovered Cusco with him. She taught the Inca women the art of spinning thread.\n"}
{"id": "52578213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52578213", "title": "Miroslav Živković", "text": "Miroslav Živković\n\nMiroslav Živković (; Gornje Krnjino, 1934 – Pirot, February 18, 2009) was a Serbian naïve art painter.\n\nŽivković was born in the village of Gornje Krnjino near Pirot in 1934. He lived and worked in Pirot and died there in 2009. He began painting in 1955. The favorite source of his paintings was the Stara planina mountain near Pirot. He combined inner scenes and fantasy with mountain meadows, glades and forest.\n\nThe largest collection of his paintings is at the Museum of Naïve and Marginal Art in Jagodina, Serbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20425100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20425100", "title": "Night and Day (2008 film)", "text": "Night and Day (2008 film)\n\nNight and Day () is a 2008 South Korean comedy-drama film written and directed by Hong Sang-soo, starring Kim Young-ho and Park Eun-hye. The film competed for the Golden Bear at the 58th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, Kim Seong-nam, a painter in his forties, travels to Paris, France to escape arrest for smoking marijuana, leaving his wife behind in Korea. While there he meets an ex-girlfriend, Min-seon, and is introduced to a small community of Korean artists.\n\n\n\"Night and Day\" premiered at the 58th Berlin International Film Festival on 12 February 2008. It was released in South Korean theatres on 28 February, and as of 13 July had received a total of 13,928 admissions with a gross of $75,557.\n\n\"Night and Day\" won the award for Best Film at the 17th Buil Film Awards, held on 9 October 2008. Hong Sang-soo was nominated for Best Screenplay at the 2008 Asia Pacific Screen Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "43612328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43612328", "title": "Nikolaos Tzafouris", "text": "Nikolaos Tzafouris\n\nNikolaos Tzafouris, also Niccolo, Niccolò, Niccolö, Zafuri, Zafuris, (active 1487 - 1501) was a Greek Renaissance painter of the Cretan School. \n\nNot much is known about Tzafouris' life except through his works. He primarily painted religious-themed works for church commissions. Tzafouris is known from documents to have been working in the city of Candia (now Iraklion) in Crete. Five of his signed icons survive, which were executed in the maniera italiana, as practiced by Cretan painters for western commissions. One work executed by Nikolaos Tzafouris was a triptych \"Pietà with Saints Francis and Mary Magdalen\" which can be found at the Ashmolean Museum. Another example of signed icon from Nikolaos Tzafouris, Christ Bearing the Cross, is in the collection of Metropolitan Museum of Art NYC. \n"}
{"id": "1448495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448495", "title": "Op. cit.", "text": "Op. cit.\n\nOp. cit. is an abbreviation of the Latin phrase \"\", meaning \"the work cited\".\n\nThe abbreviation is used in an endnote or footnote to refer the reader to a previously cited work, standing in for repetition of the full title of the work. \"Op. cit.\" thus refers the reader to the bibliography, where the full citation of the work can be found, or to a full citation given in a previous footnote. \"Op. cit.\" should never therefore be used on its own, which would be meaningless, but most often with the author's surname, or another brief clue as to which work is referred to. For example, given a work called \"The World of Salamanders\" (1999) by Jane Q. Smith, the style would typically be \"Smith \"op. cit.\"\", usually followed by a page number, to refer the reader to a previous full citation of this work (or with further clarification such as \"Smith 1999, \"op. cit.\"\" or \"Smith, \"World of Salamanders\", \"op. cit.\", if two sources by that author are cited). Given names or initials are not needed unless the work cites two authors with the same surname, as the whole purpose of using \"op. cit.\" is economy of text. For works without an individually named author, the title can be used, e.g. \"CIA World Fact Book\", \"op. cit.\"\" As usual with foreign words and phrases, \"op. cit.\" is typically given in italics. The variant \"Loc. cit.\", an abbreviation of the Latin phrase \"loco citato\" meaning \"in the place cited\", has been used for the same purpose but also indicating the same page not simply the same work; it is now rarely used or recognized.\n\nThe \"Chicago Manual of Style\", 16th edition, claims that \"op. cit.\" and \"loc. cit.\" are \"rightly falling into disuse\", and \"instead uses the short-title form\", e.g. the form \"World of Salamanders\", to use the example above. Various different styles call for other alternatives, such as a reference to the author's surname and publication year, e.g. \"Smith 1999\".\n\n\"Op. cit\" is contrasted with \"ibid.\", an abbreviation of the Latin adverb \"ibidem\", meaning \"in the same place; in that very place\" which refers the reader to the title of the work in the preceding footnote. The easily confused \"idem\" (sometimes abbreviated \"id.\"), the Latin definitive pronoun meaning \"the same\" is also used on occasion (especially in legal writing) within footnotes, and is a stand-in for the last-cited author, rather than title. The Latin adverb \"supra\", meaning \"above\" means simply \"see above\" and can therefore be somewhat imprecise.\n\nFootnotes 9 to 15:\n\nReference number 13 refers to the last cited work by the author R. Millan, and hence, it is the same as in number 9 (R. Millan, \"Art of Latin Grammar\"), although the page referred to is different. Reference number 14 refers to reference number 10, \"Language and Its Uses\" (because the work was published in 2000), page 66. Reference number 15 refers to reference number 12: there are two works by Wiki published in 2003 so you must use the title.\n\nFor the short-title form:\n\nThis is exactly the same as the long form above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29129911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29129911", "title": "Organon F", "text": "Organon F\n\nOrganon F is a Slovak academic journal of philosophy focusing on analytical philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "14256518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14256518", "title": "Personal Structures", "text": "Personal Structures\n\nPersonal Structures is an international contemporary art platform, which generates the possibility for artists and art historians to discuss philosophical concepts in art.\n\nPersonal Structures was initiated in 2003 by the artist Rene Rietmeyer. At first, the platform took shape in the form of exhibitions. Later on, in 2005, symposia were added as means for expressing thought. The first Personal Structures symposium was held at the branch of Ludwig Museum in Koblenz, Germany. Personal Structures developed in the years after. In 2007 and 2008 a symposium series was organised about the concepts time, space and existence.\n\nArtists who have been involved in Personal Structures are, amongst others, Joseph Kosuth, Wolfgang Laib, Roman Opałka, and Lawrence Weiner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22104479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22104479", "title": "Rock Carvings in Tanum", "text": "Rock Carvings in Tanum\n\nThe Rock Carvings in Tanum () are a collection of petroglyphs near Tanumshede, Bohuslän, Sweden, which were declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1994 because of their high concentration. \n\nIn total there are thousands of images called the Tanum petroglyphs, on about 600 panels within the World Heritage Area. These are concentrated in distinct areas along a 25 km stretch, and covers an area of about 51 hectares (126 acres or 0.5 km²).\n\nWhile the region was on the coastline when the drawings were made, it is now at an elevation of 25m.\n\nScandinavian Bronze Age and Iron Age people were sophisticated craftsmen and very competent travelers by water. (Dates for ages vary with the region; in Scandinavia, the Bronze Age is roughly 1800 to 500 BCE) Many of the glyphs depict boats of which some seem to be of the Hjortspring boat type carrying around a dozen passengers. Wagons or carts are also depicted.\n\nOther glyphs depict humans with a bow, spear or axe, and others depict hunting scenes. In all cases the pictures show people performing rituals. There is a human at a plough drawn by two oxen, holding what might be a branch or an ox-goading crop made of a number of strips of hide.\n\nOne of the larger rocks of Nordic Bronze Age petroglyphs in Scandinavia (at 22 metres tall and 6 metres wide), the \"Vitlyckehäll\", is located in Tanumshede. It contains nearly 300 carvings of a variety of scenes, people, and objects.\n\nThe rock carvings are endangered by erosion due to acid rain and some are thus covered either permanently or during certain times of the year. Some have been painted red to make them more visible for tourists; a practice which has drawn criticism for removing the authenticity and original state of the drawings.\n\nThe first records of the images inscribed at the site were made in 1627 when Peder Alfsön, a Norwegian doctor and lector, made ink drawings of some of the carvings. The first professional recordings were made in 1792 by Carl Gustaf Gottfried Hilfeling, who was sent by nobleman Pehr Tham to draw the carvings. A number of excavations and recordings took place over the course of the early 19th century, primarily led by Carl Georg Brunius and Axel Emmanuel Holmberg, who published research and debated at length the most likely era of their creation. Strong arguments for the now accepted era were not made until the late 19th century, when Oscar Montelius and Viktor Rydberg presented evidence linking the drawings to the Bronze Age. During the early 20th century, studies began to focus more on the meaning behind the drawings, rather than determining their age, but late 20th century work confirmed that the drawings were likely made during the Bronze Age.\n\nThe site was named a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1994; encompassing approximately 45 km² in total. It is visited by approximately 100,000 people per year, though visitors are not permitted to walk on or touch the drawings.\n\n"}
{"id": "46352425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46352425", "title": "Roman funerary art", "text": "Roman funerary art\n\nRoman funerary art changed throughout the course of the Republic and the Empire and comprised many different forms. There were two main burial practices used by the Romans throughout history, one being cremation, another inhumation. The vessels that resulted from these practices include sarcophagi, ash chests, urns, and altars. In addition to these, buildings such as mausoleums, stelae, and other monuments were also popular forms used to commemorate the dead. The method by which Romans were memorialized was determined by social class, religion, and other factors. While monuments to the dead were constructed within Roman cities, the remains themselves were interred outside the cities.\n\nAfter the end of Etruscan rule, Roman lawmakers became very strict regarding the ethics of laying the dead to rest. A prime issue was the legality and morality of interring the dead within the city limits. It was nearly unanimous at first to move the dead outside of the pomerium to ensure the separation of their souls from the living, and many politicians remained assertive in enforcing the idea well into the Empire. Cicero reminds his readers of the Law of the Twelve Tables: \"A dead man shall not be buried or burned inside the city\" (De Legibus, 2, 23:58). Three centuries later, Paulus writes in his Sententiae, \"You are not allowed to bring a corpse into the city in case the sacred places in the city are polluted. Whoever acts against these restrictions is punished with unusual severity. You are not allowed to cremate a body within the walls of the city\" (1, 21:2-3). Many Roman towns and provinces had similar rules, often in their charters, such as the Lex Ursonensis. Particularly at the very end of the Republic, exceptions to this principle became more frequent, albeit only for the most powerful leaders. The means used to commemorate the dead served to acknowledge the gods, but also served as means of social expression depicting Roman values and history.\n\nEarly Christians continued this custom until Late Antiquity, but liked to be buried close to the graves of martyrs; the catacombs and great churches that grew up around the fringes of Rome were then outside the walls.\n\n\"See mausoleum.\"\n\nThe mausoleum is so named for Mausolus of Caria (377-353/2 BC), a ruler in what is now Turkey. He was a profound patron of Hellenistic culture. After, or perhaps before his death, his wife and sister Artemisia commissioned the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus as an enormous tomb for him above ground; it was one of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world, and much of the sculpture is now in Berlin. Such had been a trend in Greece during the centuries before Mausolus, as it was a means of further solidifying the memory of the prominent deceased. At the time, the ancient Mediterranean world was in the midst of a revival of Greek ideologies, present in politics, religion, the arts, and social life. The Romans were no exception to this trend.\n\nMausolea generally had multiple occupants because their space was so vast, although this notion took time to become commonplace in the early Republic, as did the idea of \"burying\" the dead above ground. Mass burials were common, but only for the common folk. Royalty, politicians, generals, and the richest citizens originally shared a tomb with no more than their immediate family. Changes were gradual largely because funerary practices tended to follow strict traditions, especially in the ancient world. It took centuries to conceive the \"Roman\" concept of the mausoleum. Meanwhile, the idea of lavish decoration of burial sites remained present throughout the Republic and the Empire. In context, above ground structures of the Empire and Late Republic contained art suitable to the lives of the occupants the same way their underground alternatives did.\n\nFew mausolea inside the Pomerium predated the empire. Most mausolea existed on designated burial grounds in the country, though city exemptions to the prohibition of mortuary buildings only increased during the Empire. It was also popular to build them along main roads so that they would be consistently visible to the public. A trend of the Middle and Late Empire was to build mausolea on family property, even if it was within the city limits.\n\nThe Romans absorbed a great deal of Etruscan funerary art practices. Above ground mausolea were still rare; underground tombs and tumuli were far more common methods of burial. The early Romans buried those who could not afford such accommodations in mass graves or cremated them. Of the few mausolea that they did build during Rome's infancy, many fell to ruins under unknown circumstances. Their absence thus renders little indication of the Romans' mausoleum practices during these years. A notable exception is in Praeneste, or present day Palestrina, where approximately forty early mausolea remain.\n\nEtruscan influence remained, and there became more consistency in the styles of mausolea as Roman influence increased throughout the Latin League. Structures from this era are rare, but as with the preceding centuries, most of those that the Romans built at this time no longer exist.\n\nRome, along with the rest of the Mediterranean world, experienced a resurgence of Greek culture, known as the Hellenistic period. Both the interiors and exteriors of mausolea adopted staples of Classical architecture such as barrel vaulted roofs; klinai, which were full body benches upon which the dead lay; painted facades; ornate columns; and friezes along the roofs. During this era, most Romans acknowledged the idea that above ground burial allows the public to better remember the deceased. Clearly in accordance with their embraces of tradition and virtues of the mos maiorum, Romans began to set aside money to build vast new mausolea for the preservation of their legacies. Of course, this trend was gradual, but had gained ground by the end of the Republic.\n\nThe Tomb of the Scipios is an example of a large underground rock-cut set of chambers used by the Scipio family from the 3rd to the 1st centuries BC. It was grand, but relatively inconspicuous above ground.\n\nAlso present was an influence from the lands east of Greece. Although the architectural contributions of Asia Minor were very different from those of the Greeks, Asia Minor had previously opened itself to Hellenic styles earlier in the fourth century BC. The Romans borrowed most of their architecture during these years from the Greeks, so most of the Roman styles similar to those of Asia Minor actually came to Rome via Greece. Of course, the Romans borrowed directly from the Greek style as well. Anatolian mausolea are distinct via their tower designs, a notable example being the Harpy Tomb, built circa 480-470 BC.\n\nNearing the Late Republic, the new diversity in design allowed those who could afford it to build larger and more lavish mausolea. Although politicians, particularly senators, had always used their monuments to proclaim their status, they increasingly saw the grandeur of their mausolea as an additional outlet of expressing political dominance. Around this time, most Romans had accepted the similarities of mausolea and temples, although their ancestors had been conscious of this apparent analogue for centuries.\n\nWithin the final two centuries of the Republic, Roman mausolea acquired inspiration from another geographical region: North Africa. North African architecture itself had succumbed to Greek practices since Greco-Phoenician trade settlements since the eighth century BC. Again, the Romans embraced the style as they solidified their conquest of North Africa in the second and first centuries BC. By the time of Augustus, the influences of Greece, Asia Minor, and Africa combined to make a unique \"Roman\" style.\n\nAs the Republic ended, more people continued to forgo the rules against city burials. One of the last Republican leaders to do so was Sulla, who opted to build a mausoleum on the Campus Martius. Many burial grounds outside of the city became crowded because mausolea had not but increased in size, ornateness, and quantity since the Hellenistic Era. In the first century BC, some Romans settled for smaller and simpler mausolea in order to just reserve space on a prominent burial ground, such as the Isola Sacra Necropolis outside of Portus, where visitors can notice the smaller mausolea desperately filling random space around the more properly distanced larger ones. Howard Colvin cites the mausolea of the consul Minicius Fundanus on Monte Mario and the Licinii-Calpurnii on Via Salaria as examples of more compact structures that came to scatter burial sites.\n\nThe Tomb of Eurysaces the Baker (50-20 BC) is a flamboyant example of a rich freedman's tomb, with reliefs exemplifying an Italic style less influenced by Hellenistic art than official or patrician monuments.\n\nThe new government of Rome brought a new approach to mausolea politically and socially. The non-elite became ever present in the senate, putting a damper on many of the longtime rivalries of the aristocracy. Because they many of these men were homines novi, or new men, they had other incentives to assert dominance; Patterson observes that their mausolea focused more upon giving prestige to their own name rather than toppling that of someone else. Such an agenda is discernable through the increased interest of building mausolea on family property. Many wealthy families owned magnificent estates in the country, where they were free from the burial laws of the city. While the art and design of the structures themselves remained grandiose, builders shifted interest to decorating the land around the mausoleum. Statues, podia, steles, and horti (gardens), gained popularity amongst those who had the space and money to erect mausolea on their own property. The Pyramid of Cestius of about 12 BC remains a rather eccentric Roman landmark; he had perhaps served in Nubian campaigns.\n\nWith the advent of the Empire came an extreme augmentation in the inclusivity of mausolea on two ways. First, the occupation of many new mausolea was greater than that of their Republican predecessors, which generally reserved space for nobody other than their immediate family. Many in the Empire who commissioned mausolea in their name also requested room for extended family, slaves, freedmen, concubines, clients, animals, and other intimate acquaintances. Second, more people who could normally not afford a mausoleum were able to acquire one. Aside from those a master invited to his mausoleum, certain freedmen received their own mausoleum with financial assistance from their former masters. Some of the freedmen's mausolea are equally as impressive as those of wealthy citizens.\n\nNo later than the end of the second century AD did Rome reach its territorial apex as an empire. The initially slow, but quickly hastening decline of the Empire allowed the mausoleum to fall into the hands of Roman constituents and enemies. Notably, after the Third Century Crisis, the revival of the mausoleum during the tetrarchy and beyond spawned interest amongst the Christian population. They began to build mausolea in the same edificial style as the Romans had for the duration of the empire, and decorated them with Christian artwork. Mausolea continued to be a prime means of interring multiple individuals in the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Mausoleum of Helena in Rome, built by Constantine I for himself, but later used for his mother, remains a traditional form, but the church of Santa Costanza there, built as a mausoleum for Constantine's daughter, was built over an important catacomb where Saint Agnes was buried, and either was always intended, or soon developed as, a funerary hall where burial spots could be bought by Christians. Most of the great Christian basilicas in Rome passed through a stage as funerary halls, full of sarcophagi and slab memorials, before being turned into more conventional churches in the Early Middle Ages.\n\nAugustus did the unspeakable in 28 BC and erected a mausoleum on the Campus Martius, a previously public land upon which infrastructure was normally illegal. This challenged his claim to be Princeps, as his enemies found such an action to be too ambitious for a regular citizen and thus above the law. Notable features of the mausoleum included a bronze statue of Augustus, pyres, and Egyptian obelisks among the various usual mortuary ornaments. The mausoleum suffered severe destruction in 410 AD during the Gothic invasion of Rome in 410 AD.\n\nHadrian had a grand mausoleum, now better known as the Castel Sant'Angelo, for himself and his family in the Pons Aelius in 120 AD. In addition to its fame as the resting spot of the emperor, the construction of the mausoleum is famous in its own right, as it has a particularly complex vertical design. A rectangular base supports the usual cylindrical frame. Atop the frame is a garden roof with a baroque monument bearing the statue of an angel. The original statue, that of a golden quadriga, among other treasures fell victim to various attacks when the mausoleum served as a castle and a papal fortress during the Middle Ages. Over a century would pass before a new mausoleum would house the remains of an emperor. The corruption of the Severans and the Third Century Crisis did not permit very much opportunity for such a glorious memorialization.\n\nDiocletian, Maxentius, Galerius, and Constantius I all had their own mausolea. Diocletian and Galerius, who ruled the Eastern Empire, have particularly visible eastern influences in their mausolea, now both churches. Viewers can observe the tower in the former's building, built on Diocletian's Palace in Split, Croatia and the dark oil murals on the interior of the latter's, in Thessalonica. Diocletian's mausoleum is now the main part of Split Cathedral. The Mausoleum of Maxentius outside Rome is the only one of the four in Italy. It lies on the Via Appia, where his villa and circus lie in ruins. Colvin asserts that the army likely buried Constantius in Trier, but there is no material evidence.\n\nIn ancient Rome, Roman citizens would memorialize their dead by creating cippi or grave altars. These altars became, not just commissioned by the rich, but also commonly erected by freedmen and slaves. The function of these altars was either to house the ashes of the dead or just to symbolically commemorate the memory of the deceased. Often, practical funerary altars were constructed to display vessels that contained the ashes and burnt bones of the deceased. These ash urns were placed in deep cavities of the altars that were then covered with a lid. Other times, there was a depression in the altar in which libations could be poured. Some Roman funerary altars were provided with pipes so that these libations could \"nourish\" the remains. Less commonly, the body of the deceased was placed in the altar. While some altars contained remnants of the deceased, most Roman funerary altars had no practical function and only were erected to memorialize the dead.\n\nThe practice of erecting Roman funerary altars is linked to the tradition of constructing votive altars to honor the gods. Due to the acceptance that altars act as a symbol of reverence, it is believed that funerary altars were used to heroicize the deceased. Funerary altars differed from votive altars that honored the gods, because they were not recipients of blood sacrifices. Grave altars of heroes were connected with ritual sacrifices, but altars of regular Roman citizens were not. This practical difference is determined because Roman funerary altars do not have sacrificial pans or braziers. By having a similar appearance to votive altars, the symbolism of the reverence of a sacrifice was implied, therefore conveying proper respect to the dead. While having different meanings, the two types of altars were similarly constructed, both aboveground and round or rectangular in shape.\n\nFunerary altars of more wealthy Roman citizens were often found on the interior of more elaborate tombs. Altars erected by the middle class were also set up in or outside of monumental tombs, but also in funerary precincts that lined the roads leading out of the city of Rome. The altars that were part of tomb complexes were set up on family plots or on building plots bought by spectators, who then sold them to individual owners. Tombs and altars had a close connection in the mind of a Roman, evidenced by the Latin inscriptions where tombs are described as if they were altars.\n\nEpitaphs on funerary altars provide much information about the deceased, most often including their name and their filiation or tribe. Less often, the age and profession of the deceased was included in the epitaph. A typical epitaph on a Roman funerary altar opens with a dedication to the manes, or the spirit of the dead, and closes with a word of praise for the honoree. These epitaphs, along with the pictorial attributes of the altars, allow historians to discern a lot of important information about ancient Roman funerary practices and monuments. Gathered from the funerary altars, it can be established that the majority of the altars were erected by a homogeneous group of middle-class citizens.\n\nEpitaphs often emphasize the relationship between the deceased and dedicant, with most relationships being familial (husbands and wives, parents and children, etc.). Many altars also feature portraits of the deceased. Extrapolated from the evidence of epitaphs and portraits on the altars, it can be concluded that freedmen and their descendants most frequently commissioned funerary altars in Rome—people who were teachers, architects, magistrates, writers, musicians and so on.\nThe most common type of altar dedication is from parents to their deceased child. The epitaph often features the age of the child to further express grief at the death at such a young age. On the other hand, the age of a deceased person at an older age is rarely put on the epitaph. Some other, less common, dedications are to parents from children, with the child most likely being a boy. The second most common relationship of honorees is husband to wife or wife to husband.\nOutside of familial relationships, patrons sometimes dedicated altars to a slave or freedman and vice versa. The relationship between dedicant and honoree of some altars that support this conclusion were actually husband and wife, because patrons sometimes married their freed slaves. However, the relationship between patron and slave or freedman was not exclusionary to marriage, because sometimes these citizens had a personal relationship with a non-blood related person that they felt needed to be commemorated.\nIt is important to note the prominence of women surrounding the discussion of Roman funerary altars, because it is rare for ancient Roman women to be so involved in any kind of monument of this time. Contrasting to most of the monuments that are surviving from Rome, women played a major part in funerary altars because many altars were erected in honor of or commissioned by a woman. These women were honored as wives, mothers, and daughters, as well remembered for their professions. For example, these professional women were honored as priestesses, musicians, and poets. Sometimes the epitaph does not altar information about the profession of the honored woman, but details of the portrait (for example, the dress of the portrait) give clues to her vocation. Many surviving altars honor women because, in ancient Rome, women tended to die young, due to childbirth and general hardships from marriage and overwork. Roman women were honored often honored by their husbands, with some altars dedicated to the pair and with some just honoring the wife. Furthermore, some female children were honored in altars, commissioned by their grief-stricken parents.\n\nRoman funerary altars had varied structures, with most reflecting the erection design of votive altars, which have flat tops. For others, which most likely were designed to receive offerings, the tops of the altars were dished. Deeper cavities were created for ash urns to be placed inside. Sizes of the altars could range from miniature examples to 2 meters tall. Some carried busts or statues or portraits of the deceased. The simplest and most common form of a funerary altar was a base with a pediment, often featuring a portrait or epitaph, on top of the base. They are almost all rectangular in shape and taller than they are wide. Plain or spiral columns usually frame the portrait or scene featured on the altar.\nAlong with the typical portrait and epitaph, other motifs were inscribed in the altars. These motifs often had otherworldly or funerary meanings, which include laurel wreaths or fruit –swags. Mythological allusions in the design of the altar often aimed to liken the deceased to a divine being. Examples of these allusions include a young girl who is represented in the guise of Daphne transformed into a laurel tree or another girl who is portrayed as the goddess Diana. Sometimes, tools that were characteristic of the deceased's profession were featured on the altar. The design of the Roman funerary altars differs between each individual altar, but there are many overarching themes.\n\n\"...a stone monument is an expression of permanence. It is no surprise, therefore, that the Roman obsession with personal immortality acquired its physical form in stone.\"\n\nSarcophagi were used in Roman funerary art beginning in the second century A.D., and continuing until the fourth century. A sarcophagus, which means \"flesh-eater\" in Greek, is a stone coffin used for inhumation burials. Sarcophagi were commissioned not only for the elite of Roman society (mature male citizens), but also for children, entire families, and beloved wives and mothers. The most expensive sarcophagi were made from marble, but other stones, lead, and wood were used as well. Along with the range in production material, there existed a variety of styles and shapes, depending on where the sarcophagus was produced and whom it was produced for.\n\nInhumation burial practices and the use of sarcophagi were not always the favored Roman funerary custom. The Etruscans and Greeks used sarcophagi for centuries before the Romans finally adopted the practice in the second century. Prior to that period, the dead were usually cremated and placed in marble ash chests or ash altars, or were simply commemorated with a grave altar that was not designed to hold cremated remains. Despite being the main funerary custom during the Roman Republic, ash chests and grave altars virtually disappeared from the market only a century after the advent of the sarcophagus.\n\nIt is often assumed that the popularity for sarcophagi began with the Roman aristocracy and gradually became more accepted by the lower classes. However, in the past, the most expensive and ostentatious grave altars and ash chests were commissioned more frequently by wealthy freedmen and other members of the emerging middle class than by the Roman elite. Due to this fact and the lack of inscriptions on early sarcophagi, there is not enough evidence to make a judgment on whether or not the fashion for sarcophagi began with a specific social class. Surviving evidence does indicate that a great majority of early sarcophagi were used for children. This suggests that the change in burial practice may not have simply stemmed from a change in fashion, but perhaps from altered burial attitudes. It is possible that the decision to begin inhuming bodies occurred because families believed that inhumation was a kinder, and less disturbing burial rite than cremation, thus necessitating a shift in burial monument.\n\nAlthough grave altars and ash chests virtually disappeared from the market in the second century, aspects of their decoration endured in some stylistic elements of sarcophagi. The largest stylistic group of early sarcophagi in the second century is garland sarcophagi, a custom of decoration that was previously used on ash chests and grave altars. Though the premise of the decoration is the same, there are some differences. The garland supports are often human figures instead of the animal heads used previously. In addition, specific mythological scenes fill the field, rather than small birds or other minor scenes. The inscription panel on garland ash altars and chests is also missing on garland sarcophagi. When a sarcophagus did have an inscription, it seemed to be an extra addition and usually ran along the top edge of the chest or between the decorations. The fact that early garland sarcophagi continued the tradition of grave altars with decorated garlands suggests that the customers and sculptors of sarcophagi had similar approaches to those who purchased and produced grave altars. Both monuments employed a similar collection of stylistic motifs with only subtle shifts in iconography.\n\nSarcophagi production of the Ancient Roman Empire involved three main parties: the customer, the sculpting workshop that carved the monument, and the quarry-based workshop that supplied the materials. The distance between these parties was highly variable due to the extensive size of the Empire. Metropolitan Roman, Attic, and Asiatic were the three major regional types of sarcophagi that dominated trade throughout the Roman Empire. Although they were divided into regions, the production of sarcophagi was not as simple as it might appear. For example, Attic workshops were close to Mount Pentelikon, the source of their materials, but were usually very far from their client. The opposite was true for the workshops of Metropolitan Rome, who tended to import large, roughed out sarcophagi from distant quarries in order to complete their commissions. Depending on distance and customer request (some customers might choose to have elements of their sarcophagi left unfinished until a future date, introducing the possibility of further work after the main commission), sarcophagi were in many different stages of production during transport. As a result, it is difficult to develop a standardized model of production.\n\nRome was the primary production center in the western part of the empire. A Metropolitan Roman sarcophagus often took the shape of a low rectangular box with a flat lid. As the sarcophagus was usually placed in a niche or against a wall in a mausoleum, they were usually only decorated on the front and two shorter sides. Many were decorated with carvings of garlands and fruits and leaves, as well as narrative scenes from Greek mythology. Battle and hunting scenes, biographical events from the life of the deceased, portrait busts, the profession of the deceased and abstract designs were also popular.\n\nAthens was the main production center for Attic style sarcophagi. These workshops mainly produced sarcophagi for export. They were rectangular in shape and were often decorated on all four sides, unlike the Metropolitan Roman style, with ornamental carvings along the bottom and upper edge of the monument. The lids were also different from the flat metropolitan Roman style and featured a pitched gable roof, or a kline lid, which is carved in the style of couch cushions on which the form of the deceased reclines. The great majority of these sarcophagi also featured mythological subjects, especially the Trojan War, Achilles, and battles with the Amazons.\n\nThe Dokimeion workshops in Phrygia specialized in architecturally formed large-scale Asiatic sarcophagi. Many featured a series of columns joined together by an entablature on all four sides with human figures in the area between the columns. The lids were often made in the gabled-roof design in order to complete the architectural-style sarcophagi so the coffin formed a sort of house or temple for the deceased. Other cities in Asia Minor produced sarcophagi of the garland tradition as well. In general, the sarcophagi were decorated on either three or four sides, depending on whether they were to be displayed on a pedestal in an open-air setting or against the walls inside tombs.\n\nA transition from the classical garland and seasonal reliefs with smaller mythological figures to a greater focus on full mythological scenes began with the break up of the classical style in the late second century towards the end of Marcus Aurelius' reign. This shift led to the development of popular themes and meanings portrayed through mythological scenes and allegories. The most popular mythological scenes on Roman sarcophagi functioned as aids to mourning, visions of life and happiness, and opportunities for self-portrayal for Roman citizens. Images of Meleager, the host of the Calydonian Boar hunt, being mourned by Atalanta, as well as images of Achilles mourning Patroclus were very common on sarcophagi that acted as grieving aids. In both cases, the mythological scenes were akin to mourning practices of ordinary Roman citizens in an effort to reflect their grief and comfort them when they visited the tomb. Playful images depicting Nereids, Dionysiac triumphs, and love scenes of Dionysus and Ariadne were also commonly represented on sarcophagi. It is possible that these scenes of happiness and love in the face of death and mourning encouraged the living to enjoy life while they could, and reflected the celebration and meals that the mourners would later enjoy in the tomb when they returned to visit the deceased. The third century involved the return in popularity of self-representation on Roman sarcophagi. There were several different ways Roman citizens approached self-representation on sarcophagi. Some sarcophagi had actual representations of the face or full figure of the deceased. In other cases, mythological portraits were used to connect characteristics of the deceased with traits of the hero or heroine portrayed. For example, common mythological portraits of deceased women identified them with women of lauded traits in myth, such as the devoted Selene or loyal Alcestis. Scenes featuring the figures of Meleager and Achilles expressed bravery and were often produced on sarcophagi holding deceased men. Biographical scenes that emphasize the true virtues of Roman citizens were also used to commemorate the deceased. Scholars argue that these biographical scenes as well as the comparisons to mythological characters suggest that self-portrayal on Roman sarcophagi did not exist to celebrate the traits of the deceased, but rather to emphasize favored Roman cultural values and demonstrate that the family of the deceased were educated members of the elite that could understand difficult mythological allegories.\n\nThe breakup of the classical style led to a period in which full mythological reliefs with an increase in the number of figures and an elongation of forms became more popular, as discussed above. The proportion of figures on the reliefs also became increasingly unbalanced, with the main figures taking up the greatest area with smaller figures crowded in the small pockets of empty space. In the third century, another transition in theme and style of sarcophagi involved the return in popularity of representing mythological and non-mythological portraits of the deceased. Imagery of the four seasons also becomes popular during the third and fourth centuries. With the advent of Christianity in the third century, traditional motifs, like the seasons, remained, and images representing a belief in the afterlife appeared. The change in style brought by Christianity is perhaps most significant, as it signals a change in emphasis on images of retrospection, and introduced images of an afterlife.\n\nThe Roman catacombs are a series of underground cemeteries that were built in several major cities of the Roman Empire, beginning in the first and second centuries B.C.E. The tradition was later copied in several other cities around the world, though underground burial had been already common in many cultures before Christianity. The word \"Catacomb\" means a large, underground, Christian cemetery. Because of laws prohibiting burial within the city, the catacombs were constructed around the city along existing roads such as the Via Appia, where San Callixtus and San Sebastiano can be found, two of the most significant catacombs. The catacombs were often named for saints who were buried in them, according to tradition, though at the time of their burial, martyr cults had not yet achieved the popularity to grant them lavish tombs. After 750 B.C.E., most of the remains of these martyrs were moved to the churches in the city above. This was mainly undertaken by Pope Paul I, who decided to move the relics because of the neglected state of the catacombs. The construction of catacombs started late in the first century and during this time they were used only for burial purposes and for funerary rites. The process of underground burial was abandoned, however, in the fifth century. A few catacombs remained open to be used as sites of pilgrimage because of their abundance of relics.\n\nBefore Christians began to use catacombs for burial, they buried their dead in pagan burial areas. As a result of their community's economic and organizational growth, Christians were able to begin these exclusively Christian cemeteries. Members of the community created a \"communal fund\" which ensured that all members would be buried. Christians also insisted on inhumation and the catacombs allowed them to practice this in an organized and practical manner.\n\nThe layout and architecture was designed to make very efficient use of the space and consisted of several levels with skylights that were positioned both to maximize lighting and to highlight certain elements of the decor. There are several types of tomb in the catacombs, the simplest and most common of which is the \"loculus\" (pl. \"loculi\"), a cavity in the wall closed off by marble or terra-cotta slabs. These are usually simple and organized very economically, arranged along the walls of the hallways in the catacombs. A \"mensa\" is a niche in the wall holding a sarcophagus while a \"cubiculus\" is more private, more monumental, and usually more decorated. \"Cubicula\" use architectural structures, such as columns, pilasters, and arches, along with bold geometric shapes. Their size and elaborate decor indicate wealthier occupants. With the issuance of the Edict of Milan, as Christians were less persecuted and gained more members of the upper class, the catacombs were greatly expanded and grew more monumental.\n\nMuch of the material of the tombs was second-hand, some even still has pagan inscriptions on them from their previous use. Marble was used often, partially because it reflected light and was light in color. Clay bricks were the other common material that was used for structure and for decor. Roman concrete (volcanic rock, lime putty, and water — a combination which is incredibly resistant to wear) and a thin layer of stucco was spread over the walls of bare rock faces. This was not structural, only aesthetic, and was typically painted with frescoes.\n\nTombs were usually marked with epitaphs, seals, Christian symbols, or prayers in the form of an inscription or painted in red lead, though often they were marked only with the name of the occupant. Inscriptions in the Christian catacombs were usually in Latin or Greek, while in the Jewish catacombs they were written in either Greek or Hebrew. The majority of them are religiously neutral, while some are only graphic imitations of epitaphs (dashes and letters) that serve no meaning but to continue the funerary theme in an anonymous and efficient mass-production. Textual inscriptions also contained graphic elements and were matched in size and significance with decorative elements and elaborate punctuations marks. Some Christians were too poor to afford inscriptions, but could inscribe their tomb with a short and somewhat sloppy graffito while the mortar was still drying; Eventually, a code of equality was established ensuring that the tombs of poorer Christians would still be decorated, however minimally. The quality of writing on pagan tombstones is noticeably superior to that on Christian tombstones. This was probably due to the fact that Christians had less means, less access to specialized workers, and perhaps care more about the content of their inscriptions than their aesthetic.\n\nObjects were often set before, in, and in the mortar of tombs. These took the form of benches, stools, tables, and tableware and may have been used for rites such as the \"refrigerium\" (the funerary meal) which involved real food and drink. Tables most likely held offerings of food while vases or other glass or ceramic containers held offerings of wine. Objects such as shells, dolls, buttons, jewelry, bells, and coins were added to the mortar of the \"loculi\" or left on shelves near the tomb. Some of these objects may have been encased in the tomb with the body and removed later. Objects were much more common during and after the Constantinian period.\n\nThe objects surrounding the tomb were reflected in the frescoes of banquets. The tombs sometimes used mosaics, but frescoes were overwhelmingly more popular than mosaics. The walls were typically whitewashed and divided up into sections by red and green lines. This shows influence from Pompeian wall painting which tends toward extreme simplification of architectural imitation.\n\n\"The Severan period sees the definition of the wall surface as a chromatic unity, no longer intended as a space open towards an illusionary depth, but rather as a solid and substantial surface to be articulated with panels.\"\n\nThe organized and simple style of the frescoes manifests itself in two forms: an imitation of architecture, and clearly defined images. The images typically present one subject of religious importance and are combined together to tell a familiar (typically Christian) story. Floral motif and the Herculean labors (often used in pagan funerary monuments) along with other Hellenistic imagery are common and merge in their depictions of nature with Christian ideas of Eden. Similarly, seasons are a common theme and represent the journey through life from birth (spring) to death (winter), which goes with the occasional depictions of the Goddesses Ceres and Proserpina. There are many examples of pagan symbolism in the Christian catacombs, often used as parallels to Christian stories. The phoenix, a pagan symbol, is used to symbolize the Resurrection; Hercules in the Garden of Hesperides symbolizes Adam, Eve, and the Serpent in the garden of Eden; the most famous symbol of the catacombs, the Good Shepherd is sometimes shown as Christ, but sometimes as the Greek figure Orpheus. Most usage of pagan imagery is to emphasize paradisial aspects, though it may also indicate that either the patron or the artist was pagan. Other symbols include historical martyrs, funerary banquets, and symbols of the occupation of the deceased. The most popular symbols are of the Jonah cycle, the Baptism of Christ, and the Good Shepherd and the fisherman. The Good Shepherd was used as a wish for peaceful rest for the dead, but also acted as a guide to the dead who were represented by the sheep. Sometimes the Good Shepherd was depicted with the fisherman and the philosopher as the symbol of ultimate \"peace on land and sea,\" though this is only briefly popular. These Old Testament scenes are also seen in Jewish catacombs.\n\nCulturally significant throughout the Empire, the erection and dedication of funerary tombstones was a common and accessible burial practice. As in modern times, epitaphs were a means of publicly showcasing one's wealth, honor, and status in society. In this way, tombstones not only served to commemorate the dead, but also to reflect the sophistication of the Roman world. Both parties, therefore – the living and the dead – were venerated by and benefited from public burial. Though Roman tombstones varied in size, shape, and style, the epitaphs inscribed upon them were largely uniform. Traditionally, these inscriptions included a prayer to the Manes, the name and age of the deceased, and the name of the commemorator. Some funerary inscriptions, though rare, included the year, month, day, and even hour of death. The design and layout of the epitaph itself would have often been left to the discretion of a hired stonemason. In some cases, the stonemason would have even chosen the inscription, choosing a common phrase to complement the biographical information provided by the family of the deceased. In death, one had the opportunity to idealize and romanticize their accomplishments; consequently, some funerary inscriptions can be misleading. Tombstones and epitaphs, therefore, should not be viewed as an accurate depiction of the Roman demographic.\n\nIn the Roman world, infant mortality was common and widespread throughout the Empire. Consequently, parents often remained emotionally detached from young children, so as to prevent or lessen future grief. Nonetheless, tombstones and epitaphs dedicated to infants were common among freedmen. Of the surviving collection of Roman tombstones, roughly 75 percent were made by and for freedmen and slaves. Regardless of class, tombstones functioned as a symbol of rank and were chiefly popular among those of servile origin. As public displays, tombstones were a means of attaining social recognition and asserting one's rise from slavery. Moreover, tombstones promoted the liberties of freeborn sons and daughters who, unlike their freed parents, were Roman citizens by birth. The child's tria nomina, which served to show that the child was dignified and truly Roman, was typically inscribed upon the tombstone. Infants additionally had one or two epithets inscribed upon the stone that emphasized the moral aspects of the child's life. These epithets served to express the fact that even young children were governed by Roman virtues.\n\nMembers of the ruling class became interested in erecting funerary monuments during the Augustan-Tiberian period. Yet, by and large, this interest was brief. Whereas freedmen were often compelled to display their success and social mobility through the erection of public monuments, the elite felt little need for an open demonstration of this kind. Archeological findings in Pompeii suggest that tombs and monuments erected by freedmen increased at the very moment when those erected by the elite began to decrease. This change in custom signifies a restoration of pre-Augustan minimalism and austerity among the aristocracy in Rome. Self-remembrance among the social elite became uncommon during this time. Nonetheless governed by a strong sense of duty and religious piety, however, ancient Romans chose to celebrate the dead privately. With this change, noble or aristocratic families took to commemorating the deceased by adding inscriptions or simple headstones to existing burial sites. These sites, which were often located on the family's country estate, offered privacy to a grieving household. Unlike freedmen, the Roman elite rarely used tombstones or other funerary monuments as indicators of social status. The size and style of one's cippi, for example, was largely a personal choice and not something influenced by the need to fulfill greater social obligations.\n\nIn a military context, burial sites served to honor fallen soldiers as well as to mark newly sequestered Roman territory, such as Mainz. The most common funerary monument for Roman soldiers was that of the stelae – a humble, unadorned piece of stone, cut into the shape of a rectangle. The name, rank, and unit of the deceased would be inscribed upon the stone, as well as his age and his years of service in the Roman army. The name of the commemorator, usually an heir or close family member, could be inscribed near the bottom of the stelae if desired. Uniform in nature, the consistent style of these tombstones reflected the orderly, systematic nature of the army itself. Each tombstone stood as a testament to the strength and persistence of the Roman army as well as the individual soldiers. In some unique cases, military tombstones were adorned with sculpture. These types of headstones typically belonged to members of the auxiliary units rather than legionary units. The chief difference between the two units was citizenship. Whereas legionary soldiers were citizens of Rome, auxiliary soldiers came from provinces in the Empire. Auxiliary soldiers had the opportunity to obtain Roman citizenship only after their discharge. Tombstones served to distinguish Romans from non-romans, and to enforce the social-hierarchy that existed within military legions. For men who died in battle, the erection of ornate tombstones was a final attempt at Romanization. Reliefs on auxiliary tombstones often depict men on horseback, denoting the courage and heroism of the auxiliary's cavalrymen. Though expensive, tombstones were likely within the means of the common soldier. Unlike most lower class citizens in ancient Rome, soldiers received a regular income. Moreover, some historians suggest the creation of a burial club, a group organized to collect regular monetary contributions from the legions. The proceeds served to subsidize the cost of burial for fallen soldiers. Countless soldiers died in times of Roman war. Tombstones, therefore, were a way to identify and honor one's military service and personal achievement on the battlefield. These tombstones did not commemorate soldiers who died in combat, but rather soldiers who died during times of peace when generals and comrades were at ease to hold proper burials. Soldiers who died in battle were disrobed, cremated, and buried in mass graves near camp. In some cases, heirs or other family members commissioned the construction of cenotaphs for lost soldiers - funerary monuments that commemorated the dead as if the body had been found and returned home.\n\n"}
{"id": "2672813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2672813", "title": "Sabina Guzzanti", "text": "Sabina Guzzanti\n\nSabina Guzzanti (born 25 July 1963) is an Italian satirist, actress, writer and producer whose work is devoted to examining social and political life in Italy.\n\nBorn in Rome as the eldest daughter of celebrated Italian political commentator and journalist Paolo Guzzanti (former senator of Forza Italia, incumbent deputy and deputy secretary for Italian liberal party), she graduated from the Academy of Dramatic Arts of Rome. Her first appearances on stage were at the side of her brother Corrado, a skilled comedian known for parody and imitation.\n\nGuzzanti's career began when she took part in a series of successful television comedy formats such as \"Proffimamente... non stop\" (directed by Enzo Trapani), \"L'araba fenice\" (directed by Antonio Ricci), \"La TV delle ragazze\" and \"Scusate l'interruzione\"; her imitations of the famous Italian porn star Moana Pozzi gave her popularity, and the Italian film director Giuseppe Bertolucci recruited her to star in his film \"I Cammelli\". Her career in this period was at its apex, as she starred in several films, toured Italian theatres with her own comedy shows (such as \"Con fervido zelo\" in 1991, and \"Non io: Sabina e le altre\" in 1994), and even held her one-woman show \"La posta del cuore\". Her first attempt at directing is the 1998 short \"Donna selvaggia\".\n\nIn November 2003 Sabina Guzzanti wrote, directed and was featured in the first and only installment of \"Raiot\", a late-night TV political satire show broadcast on Rai Tre. After lampooning Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi, she was sued by Silvio Berlusconi's Mediaset lawyers (notably Cesare Previti's law firm) for \"lies and insinuation\" and the show was pulled amid controversy; in the suing document Previti defined satire as \"that thing which tends to minimize and to make a politician likeable, to diminish the social tensions\" (\"quella cosa che tende a sdrammatizzare e a rendere simpatico un politico, a diminuire le tensioni sociali\") as the basis to accuse the show of not being satirical but a direct political attack. As a form of protest, the second instalment was recorded live in the Auditorium of Rome and broadcast by independent television networks; during the event among others Dario Fo, Beppe Grillo and Daniele Luttazzi gave her their support. After that Sabina Guzzanti announced that the only official instalment of Raiot had completely vanished from the RAI's archives.\n\nAs a form of protest against the censorship imposed on \"RaiOt\", Sabina Guzzanti shot her side of the story in the film \"Viva Zapatero\" (2005) in which she shows and condemns the lack of freedom of expression in Italy. The premier of \"Viva Zapatero!\" is in Venice Film Festival and there’s a great success. \"Viva Zapatero!\" is invited in many others International Film Festival: Tribeca Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival and San Sebastian.\n\nAt the end of 2005 she was once again allowed on television to feature in the last installment of Adriano Celentano's show \"Rockpolitik\", but the producers \"forbade\" her to speak about Silvio Berlusconi. After the victory of L'Unione in the 2006 elections and the progressive fading of Berlusconi's influence on the RAI, she declared she still wouldn't return to work at the RAI unless serious reforms were launched to make the company's management independent from the politicians.\n\nIn 2007 she direct her second movie, \"Sympathy for the Lobster (Le Ragioni dell’Aragosta),\" a comedy which featured the comedians from \"Avanzi\", a popular political satire show much in vogue in the early nineties.\n\nIn July 2008, in front of thousands of cheering onlookers at Piazza Navona, Rome, Guzzanti made hate speech remarks about the Pope, saying that he would be dead in 20 years, and would end up in Hell as punishment for the Church's treatment of homosexuals, saying that he would soon be \"tormented by great big demons - and very active (sexual) ones\". Although threatened with punishments of up to five years in prison for these comments, she was not prosecuted. After these events Guzzanti explaines her side of the story in a theatrical drama \"Vilipendio!.\"\n\nIn 2010 her third featured film, \"Draquila. Italy Trembles (Draquila)\", is out of competition at Cannes Film Festival. It’s a report of the events tied to the earthquake in L’Aquila, and an intense and disturbing story about the effects of autocracy.\n\nIn 2011 Guzzanti directs \"Franca la Prima\", her personal homage to one of the most important actress in Italy, Franca Valeri.\n\nDuring the same year Sabina back to theatre with \"Sì, Sì, Sì….oh Sì!\", a funny voyage through Italy's most important personalities from both the social and political sphere.\n\nIn March 2012 Guzzanti come back to TV with a new show, \"Un due tre…Stella!\" on La7.\n\nIn 2014, her last featured film, \"The State Mafia Pact\" (\"La Trattativa\"), is screened at the 71st Venice Film Festival. It's an accurate reconstruction of one of the most dark periods of Italian history: the pact between State and Mafia during the 90s and its effect on democracy.\n\nIn summer 2015 Guzzanti stars a new project, a web news satire called \"TG Porco\" which is financed by a crowdfunding.\n\nIn the same year she backs to theatre again with her new show, \"Come Ne Venimmo Fuori. Proiezioni dal Futuro\" which is a satiric monologue, an hilarious and punctual reflection on the post-capitalist and neo-liberal policies.\n\nSince 1987, Sabina Guzzanti has practiced Nichiren Buddhism as a member of the global Buddhist association Soka Gakkai International.\n\nSabina Guzzanti is accused by various actors, politicians and writers of \"aggression\" against certain figures, mainly Silvio Berlusconi and his supporters. \nShe has also derided the cancer of the journalist Oriana Fallaci, when during Fallaci's parody, a man shouted \" May you as well get a cancer\" (\"Che ti venga un cancro\"), and Guzzanti reply \"I also already have it; and may it come to your mother too \" (\"Ce l'ho già e venisse anche alla tua mamma\"). She also insulted Pope Benedict XVI and former Minister of Equal Opportunity Mara Carfagna, who was accused by Guzzanti of fellating Silvio Berlusconi, as reported by Carfagna herself.\n\nAfter the scandal of the alleged \"Madoff of Parioli,\" Sabina Guzzanti admitted to having given money to investors, as well. Aware of having been a victim of a scam, she said that she \"felt like an idiot\", claiming to have put in 150,000 €. Such revelation sparked another series of controversies, since during her speeches and her shows, she had always declared her opposition to this kind of practice, deemed typical of tax evaders. Guzzanti would have received - had everything gone as promised - earnings on her investments abroad, then exempt from taxation, within Italy itself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40803880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40803880", "title": "Society for Women in Philosophy", "text": "Society for Women in Philosophy\n\nThe Society for Women in Philosophy was created in 1972 to support and promote women in philosophy. Since that time the Society for Women in Philosophy or \"SWIP\" has expanded to many branches around the world, including in the US, Canada, Ireland, the UK, the Netherlands, Flanders, and Germany. SWIP organizations worldwide hold meetings and lectures that aim to support women in philosophy; some, such as SWIPshop, focus exclusively on feminist philosophy, while others, such as SWIP-Analytic, focus on women philosophers working in other areas. One of the founding members of the Society for Women in Philosophy was Alison Jaggar, who was also one of the first people to introduce feminist concerns into philosophy. Each year, one philosopher is named the Distinguished Woman Philosopher of the Year by the Society for Women in Philosophy.\n\nSome SWIP archive records were originally housed in the Sophia Smith Collection at the Smith College library (started in 1982 by Kathy Pyne Parsons Addelson following the 10th anniversary of SWIP). The official SWIP Archive will now be permanently housed in the Feminist Theory Archive, Pembroke Center, Brown University. The new SWIP home is the product of the efforts of the Feminist Philosophy Archive Project created in June 2013 and ending in July 2014. The main goal of the FPA Project team, composed of philosophers Joan Callahan, Ann Garry, Alison Jaggar, Sandra Harding, Christina Rawls, and Samantha Noll, was to locate and organize the best possible professional archive for over four decades of SWIP records to be preserved. As of December 2014, the American Philosophical Association awarded the Feminist Theory Archive, SWIP, and the FPAP organizing team financial assistance to aid in the processing and preservation of SWIP materials donated.\n\n\nEach year, one philosopher is named the Distinguished Woman Philosopher for the year by the Eastern Division of the Society for Women in Philosophy. In response to her 2011 Distinguished Woman Philosopher Award Jennifer Saul said, \"I'm deeply honored and absolutely stunned by this. It’s especially wonderful to be recognized as making a difference in people's lives by doing philosophy. For me, that's the highest honor there could be.\"\n\n\"\", published quarterly by Wiley-Blackwell has its roots in the Society for Women in Philosophy.\n\nIn the 1980s, while a graduate student at the City University of New York Graduate Center, Mary Ellen Waithe, now professor of philosophy and interim director of Women's Studies at Cleveland State University, \"came upon a reference to a work by Aegidius Menagius, Historia Mullierum Philosopharum, published in 1690 and 1692. [Waithe] had never heard of any women philosophers prior to the 20th century with the exceptions of Queen Christina of Sweden, known as Descartes' student, and Hildegard von Bingen, who lived in the 12th century.\" After she obtained a copy of this book, she discovered that \"many of the women [Menagius] listed as philosophers were astronomers, astrologers, gynecologists, or simply relatives of male philosophers. Nevertheless, the list of women alleged to have been philosophers was impressive.\" At this point, she decided to \"create a team of experts to collaborate with...I placed a notice in the SWIP (Society for Women in Philosophy) Newsletter and received a half-dozen responses from philosophers\". This collaborative project led to the publication of the four-volume \"A History of Women Philosophers\", published 1987-1995, which includes the following sections:\n\n\nAt the 2002 conference for Canadian Society for Women in Philosophy, Dr. Nancy Tuana asserted the evolutionary theory that the clitoris is unnecessary in reproduction and therefore it has been \"historically ignored,\" mainly because of \"a fear of pleasure. It is pleasure separated from reproduction. That's the fear\". She reasoned that this fear is the cause of the ignorance that veils female sexuality. The received view, advanced by Stephen Jay Gould suggests that muscular contractions associated with orgasms pull sperm from the vagina to the cervix, where it is in a better position to reach the egg. Dr. Tuana's proposal challenged the view previously accepted by male biologists.\n\n"}
{"id": "14193812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14193812", "title": "Speech scroll", "text": "Speech scroll\n\nIn art history, speech scroll (also called a banderole or phylactery) is an illustrative device denoting speech, song, or, in rarer cases, other types of sound.\n\nDeveloped independently on two continents, the device was in use by artists within Mesoamerican cultures from as early as 650 BC until after the Spanish conquest in the 16th century, as well as by European painters during the Medieval and Renaissance periods.\n\nWhile European speech scrolls were drawn as if they were an actual unfurled scroll or strip of parchment, Mesoamerican speech scrolls are merely scroll-\"shaped\", looking much like a question mark.\n\nSpeech scrolls are found throughout Mesoamerica. One of the earliest examples of a Mesoamerican speech scroll was found on an Olmec ceramic cylinder seal dated to approximately 650 BC. Here two lines issue from a bird's mouth followed by glyphs proposed to be \"\"3 Ajaw\",\" a ruler's name.\n\nThe murals of the Classic era site of Teotihuacan are filled with speech scrolls, in particular the lively (and unexplained) tableaus found within the Tepantitla compound -- , for example, shows no fewer than 20 speech scrolls.\n\nIn Mesoamerica, the speech-scroll is usually oriented with the longest outer edge upward, so that the central element (or \"tongue\") curves downward as it spirals. Some Mesoamerican speech scrolls are divided lengthwise with each side a different shade.\n\nGlyphs or similar markings rarely appear on the Mesoamerican speech scroll, although \"tabs\"—small, triangular or square blocks—are sometimes seen along the outer edge. If the speech scroll represents a tongue, then the tabs may represent teeth, but their meaning or message, if any, is not known.\n\nAt times, speech scrolls are decorated with devices that describe the tone of the speech:\n\n\nAs with many native traditions, use of the speech scroll died out in the decades following the Spanish Conquest.\n\nIn contrast to the abstract nature of Mesoamerican speech scrolls, Medieval European speech scrolls or banderoles appear as actual scrolls, floating in apparent three-dimensional space (or in actual space in sculpture). They first become common at the start of the Gothic period. Previously, as in Byzantine art, spoken words, if they appeared at all, were usually painted alongside a figure; these are called tituli. However, earlier works using banderoles are the Aachen Gospels of Otto III (c. 975) and the 12th-century English Romanesque Cloisters Cross. The latter work demonstrates the use of banderoles as attributes for Old Testament prophets, to distinguish them from the book-carrying Four Evangelists of the New Testament and other Christian saints, a convention appearing in Italy in the 13th century. It may be seen in the \"Santa Trinita Maestà\" by Cimabue, (Uffizi, 1280–90), Duccio's \"Maestà\" (1308–11), and other works. The convention had a historical appropriateness, as the Old Testament was originally written on scrolls, whereas nearly all surviving New Testament manuscripts are codices (like modern books). They may also be used for the words of angels, especially Gabriel's greeting to Mary in Annunciation scenes. During the 14th century, quotations in banderoles increasingly allowed artists to include more complex ideas in their works, though for the moment usually in Latin, thus greatly restricting the audience that could follow them.\n\nUnlike Mesoamerican speech scrolls, European speech scrolls usually contain the spoken words, much like a modern-day speech balloon. The majority of these are in religious works and contain Biblical quotations from the figure depicted – Old Testament prophets for example, were often shown with an appropriate quotation from their work. Because the words are usually religious in nature, the speech scroll is often written in Latin even when appearing in woodcut illustrations for books written in the vernacular. This would also enable the illustration to be used in editions in other languages.\n\nEuropean speech scrolls may at times be seen in secular works as well and may also contain the name of a person to identify them. On carved figures the words would usually be painted on the scroll and have since worn away. In some Late Gothic and Renaissance works, and in architectural decoration, very elaborate empty banderoles seem to be for decorative purposes only.\n\nThe European speech scroll fell out of favor largely due to an increasing interest in realism in painting; the halo had a similar decline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21871166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21871166", "title": "Stilyagi", "text": "Stilyagi\n\nStilyagi (, \"stylish, style hunters\") were members of a youth counterculture from the late 1940s until the early 1960s in the Soviet Union. A stilyaga (), was primarily distinguished by snappy clothing—preferably foreign-label, acquired from \"fartsovshchiks\"—that contrasted with the communist realities of the time, and their fascination with \"zagranitsa\", modern Western music and fashions corresponding to that of the Beat Generation. English writings on Soviet culture variously translated the derogatory term as \"dandies\", \"fashionistas\", \"beatniks\", \"hipsters\", \"zoot suiters\", etc.\n\nToday, the stilyagi phenomenon is regarded as one of the Russian historical social trends which further developed during the late Soviet era (notably the Stagnation Period) and allowed \"informal\" views on life, such as hippies, punks and rappers.\n\nTheir apolitical views, neutral or negative attitudes toward Soviet morality, and their open admiration of modern, especially American, lifestyles were key characteristics that slowly developed during the 1950s.\n\nAt the dawn of the phenomenon, the stilyagi look was rather a caricature, inspired by movies from abroad of recent years. It resembled the zoot suit but combined different bright colors. By the late fifties, the look had evolved into something more elegant and stylish. Typical stilyagi wear included narrow pants, long jackets, narrow ties, bright-colored shirts, and thick soled shoes.\n\nUsually stilyagi enjoyed popular American music of the 1940s, especially swing and boogie-woogie, especially the music of Glenn Miller, Benny Goodman and the soundtrack from the film \"Sun Valley Serenade\". The \"serenade\" instantly became a cult among stilyagi, and one of its songs, the famous \"Chattanooga Choo Choo\", served as their unofficial anthem. Stilyagi developed their own styles of dance originating from boogie-woogie and later also adopted rock-n-roll.\n\nThe first stilyagi were from the generation of young adults in their early twenties who had lived through the hard times of economic crisis and World War II, leaving them perturbed about the future of their lives. Many of the young men returning from the army were heavily influenced by the contact with the foreign countries and modern trends at the time. As a result, many of them wore clothes based on images from abroad (early 1940s romance films, daily newspapers and photographs) and young women later adopted styles from modern female stereotypes too.\n\nThe main cause of this phenomenon was the struggle between capitalism and communism-led societies. The enforced uniformity of the Soviet thought and the heavy weight of its dictatorship were the only politically correct form of view, lifestyle and self-expression permitted during Stalinism. Therefore, the stilyagi sought to follow the modern ideology and morality in order to avoid Soviet pressure and its influence on society.\n\nThe stilyagi were largely repressed until Stalin's death in 1953, which let the style grow into a counterculture. By 1955, the stilyagi had acquired both respect and contempt from many layers of society (especially the then emerging Soviet upper-middle class, known as \"intelligentsia\") and were frowned upon in political instances, but had grown too many in number to be repressed. Thus, instead of trying to get rid of them, the media and politics, including journalism, eagerly mocked their style by portraying them as ridiculous as opposed to \"normal\" parts of Soviet society.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, many people were arrested for making musical recordings on \"bones\" (developed X-ray films). Those found guilty of manufacturing and distributing such recordings received from three to five years of imprisonment in labour camps for profiteering.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the catchphrase \"Today he dances jazz, but tomorrow [he] will sell [his] homeland\" (Сегодня он танцует джаз, а завтра Родину продаст), became the stilyagi's signature and the key idea underlying their social protest. Stilyagi were recognized as an official musical, artistic and pop culture movement that later took on further modern influences, notably rockabilly, rock-n-roll and pop rock musical genres.\n\nFollowing the international festival of 1957, however, the USSR became more open to modern culture. The official ban on jazz music was removed, and many records became available in stores from the 1960s. Admiration of modern music, especially the rock-n-roll wave of the sixties, met more tolerance from official ideology and little active resistance. All this contributed to the decline of the movement in the early sixties, as former stilyagi abandoned the lifestyles of their youth, while the next generation felt no need to follow such a lifestyle in order to enjoy modern culture or a nonpolitical way of life.\n\nThe influence of the stilyagi movement on Soviet-Russian culture is tremendous. Many of today's most respected Russian musicians, writers, film editors and other cultural personalities belonged to the movement, or shared its free, bohemian lifestyle. There is a 2008 Russian comedy musical film, \"Stilyagi\", about this subculture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58020172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58020172", "title": "The Adventures of Abdi", "text": "The Adventures of Abdi\n\nThe Adventures of Abdi is a picture book written by American entertainer Madonna. It was released on November 8, 2004, by Callaway Arts & Entertainment. The book is a moral tale inspired from a 300 year-old story by rabbi Baal Shem Tov, that Madonna had heard from her Kabbalah teacher. It tells the story of Abdi who was given the task of delivering a precious necklace to the queen. Madonna was inspired to write \"The Adventures of Abdi\" by the settings in \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\" and other folk stories from \"One Thousand and One Nights\". Published in a 32-page jacketed hardcover format, the book was illustrated by Russian painters and . Madonna promoted the release by appearing for book signing events as well as on television shows. \"The Adventures of Abdi\" was criticized for being Oreintalist and promoting Kabbalah to children; its illustrations received positive feedback.\n\nIn a faraway land lived a young boy named Abdi. He was an orphan raised by the great jeweler Eli. One day, Eli was commissioned with creating a necklace for the queen. Once the necklace was completed, Eli gives it to Abdi for traveling to the royal palace and giving it to the queen on her birthday. The boy starts his journey across the desert. One night while sleeping, Abdi is robbed by two Bedouins, who steal the necklace and replace it with a live snake. Unaware of the theft, Abdi reaches the palace and meets the king where the snake is revealed inside Abdi's bag. Seeing this, the king gets really upset and orders the boy to be thrown in the dungeon.\n\nEli comes to know about what happened to Abdi, and hurries along reaching the palace a week later. Because of his faith and honesty, he is able to convince the king that after placing the snake around the queen's neck, it would turn into a diamond necklace. As the queen places the snake around her neck, it slowly converts into a precious encrusted necklace. The king is impressed and releases Abdi, rewarding him and Eli. News about Abdi and Eli's magical necklace reaches the two Bedouins who had stolen the original one from Abdi. They reach the royal palace to see the king with a large bag stuffed with real snakes. However, the snakes were not charmed into jewelry and instead ended up frightening the poor queen. The enraged king orders them to be thrown in the dungeon forever.\n\nIn 2003, Madonna signed a contract with Callaway Arts & Entertainment for a series of five children's books. She explained that each book dealt \"with issues that all children confront... Hopefully there is a lesson that will help kids turn painful or scary situations into learning experiences\". The first three releases were \"The English Roses\" (September 2003), \"Mr. Peabody's Apples\" (November 2003), and \"Yakov and the Seven Thieves\" (June 2004). All three charted on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. Cumulatively, the three books sold over 1.5 million copies worldwide. Callaway announced that the fourth book in the series, \"The Adventures of Abdi\", would be released on November 8, 2004.\n\nLike her previous releases, Madonna was again inspired by a 300 year-old story by rabbi Baal Shem Tov that she had heard from her Kabbalah teacher, and wanted to share the \"essence\" of it. \"The power of certainty is without limits\", the singer wrote in the preface, referencing a line uttered by the character Eli to Abdi. In an interview with \"The Times\", Madonna explained that she was inspired by the settings in \"Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves\" and other folk stories from \"One Thousand and One Nights\", and wanted to create something in that genre. She included the Kabbalistic principle of certainty in the story with the idea that one can \"overcome all obstacles and challenges in our lives if we perceive them as blessings and not curses; if we accept that they have arrived in our lives to teach us something valuable\".\n\n\"The Adventures of Abdi\" was published in a 32-page jacketed hardcover format. Madonna collaborated with Russian illustrators and , who created the images for \"The Adventures of Abdi\". This was the first time they worked with a contemporary writer and it presented them \"with several artistic possibilities—to show a desert,a palace,a small house where an old man was making jewelry\". The couple took almost four months to finish the illustrations. They first decided on the \"most interesting\" portions of the story and gathered research materials from libraries and museums. They created rough sketches based on them; Andrej did the drawings while Olga painted them. The couple's favorite illustration was showing the queen trying out the necklace since they could show \"a lot of strange characters. We could tell the story that was not told, and hint at something much broader than the text itself\". The image for the book cover was the last painting finished by them.\n\nFollowing the release of \"The Adventures of Abdi\", Madonna made a number of promotional appearances. On November 12, 2004, the singer appeared at Selfridges, Oxford Street in London for a book signing event. Only 250 of the fans queued up were chosen to get inside. Madonna read aloud from the book for 30 minutes, watched by 30 schoolchildren in audience. She appeared on British television chat show \"Richard & Judy\", where she spoke about the inspiration and her writing process of the book, followed by \"The Jeremy Vine Show\". Madonna was interviewed by Pat O'Brien from \"The Insider\" on November 11, and she spoke about writing the book as a means for \"giving children some kind of tools to deal with adversity in their life in a peaceful way\". In December, Madonna promoted the book on the CBBC show \"Blue Peter\".\n\n\"Publishers Weekly\" criticized \"The Adventures of Abdi\" for being Orientalist as it depicts \"a cobra-bodied man play[ing] a flute [while] dark-skinned dwarves assist the milky-skinned queen and a gazelle sports a turbaned person's head\". The writer believed that some readers could be troubled by its \"harem-chic depiction of an exotic Middle East\" and simplistic philosophy. The illustrations received positive feedback, with the reviewer calling them \"sumptuous\" and a mix between the paintings of Michaelangelo and Hieronymus Bosch. Author Sandra L. Beckett complimented the illustrations in her book, \"Crossover Picturebooks: A Genre for All Ages\". She described the images as \"intricately detailed, richly textured\" and believed it evoked the work of past artisans and masters. The book faced negative reaction from religious groups who believed that it was forcing children into accepting teachings of Kabbalah. Religious cult expert Rick Alan Ross opposed the release, saying it was just \"more Kabbalah preaching disguised as a kiddie book... It's just pushing Kabbalah down the throats of innocent children'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17758717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17758717", "title": "The Book (short story)", "text": "The Book (short story)\n\n\"The Book\" is an unfinished short story by American horror fiction writer H. P. Lovecraft, believed to have been written in late 1933. It was first published in the journal \"Leaves\" in 1938, after Lovecraft's death. \n\nIn the story fragment, the narrator is given an ancient book by a strange bookseller, and when he takes it home and examines it, weird and sinister events ensue.\n\nIn October 1933, Lovecraft wrote in a letter:\n\nThe \"H. P. Lovecraft Encyclopedia\" suggests that \"The Book\" was one of the undestroyed experiments—an attempt to translate Lovecraft's poem sequence \"Fungi from Yuggoth\" into prose. (The completed fragment corresponds to the first three sonnets, which form more of a coherent narrative than the rest of the sequence.)\n\n\"The Black Tome of Alsophocus\", first published in \"New Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos\" (1969), is an attempt by Martin S. Warnes to complete \"The Book\". Warnes turns the fragment into a tale of possession by Nyarlathotep.\n\n"}
{"id": "36272992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36272992", "title": "The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs", "text": "The Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs\n\nThe Iraq War: A Historiography of Wikipedia Changelogs is a 12-volume set of printed books that shows every change made to the English Wikipedia article on the Iraq War from December 2004 to November 2009 and represents 12,000 changes in 7,000 printed pages. The books are an artistic visualization of the changes made to a particular article at Wikipedia. Only one copy was made, in 2010, so the set has not been published and was not intended for sale. The author has stated that the books have been exhibited in galleries in the United States and in Europe.\n\nThe work is a historiography compiled by technology writer James Bridle. It contains changelogs of the page for the Wikipedia article on the Iraq war, including arguments, opinions and vandalism. The work shows the editing process for an article and the process of creation, which includes the opinions and biases of many contributors.\n\nThe author created his book as a demonstration of the process of making history. He says:\n\nThe project encourages viewers to think of editing contributions and the collections of commentary and disagreement as part of the historical record. It is also an exploration of how recent contributions to various media supplant older contributions and what content may be lost when scholars have access only to the latest publications. Bridle has stated that, despite the history button being on every page of every article, few people use it and to him this phenomenon is the most interesting and enlightening part of Wikipedia.\n\nA reviewer for \"Time\" described the project as a fascinating visual aid. The review in \"ReadWriteWeb\" was that the work was \"pretty awesome\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51805990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51805990", "title": "The Waa-Mu Show", "text": "The Waa-Mu Show\n\nThe Waa-Mu Show (pronounced \"wah mew\") is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization within Northwestern University in Evanston, IL, that produces student written, orchestrated, produced, and performed original musical theatre work every year. The song lyrics, script, and music are developed in a series of classes. It is the institution's longest standing theatrical tradition and is held in Cahn Auditorium on Northwestern's campus. This tradition began as a musical revue, showcasing several different student-written Northwestern-inspired vignettes connected by one single theme. Over the last six years, the Waa-Mu show has evolved into an original full-length musical.\n\nThe first Waa-Mu show took place in 1929. A senior Northwestern student Joseph W. Miller and his classmate Darrell Ware wrote the script and staged the college musical comedy that became \"The Waa-Mu Show,\" the first co-educational college musical show. The Women's Athletic Association (WAA) and the Men's Union (MU) collaborated to put on the first show. The name \"Waa-Mu\" is derived from the synthesis of the two groups' acronyms.\n\nThe WAA had been staging popular all-female musical comedies since 1912; the MU had presented less successful all-male comic operas for a number of years prior to 1929. Both men's and women's shows had been losing money and Miller and Ware raised $1,200 by borrowing $5 a piece from interested students to finance the first show. It also was Miller's and Ware's idea to feature both male and female students in their premiere production. At first, the female WAA committee was reluctant about sharing the stage with the male Mu members, but they eventually agreed to combine talents. The premiere show that Miller and Ware collaborated on was \"Good Morning Glory.\" \"The Daily Northwestern\" wrote, \"Campus interest is the highest yet for any single dramatic activity in University history.\" This review prompted the producers to begin formulating and writing the following year's show. Walter Kerr was the principal writer for the 1936 musical revue entitled \"It Goes to Show\". Kerr graduated the following year and eventually become a famous theatre critic for the \"New York Times\". After graduating in 1929, Joe Miller stayed at Northwestern to do graduate work in personnel administration, and Darrell Ware went to Hollywood to write screenplays. In 1931 Northwestern president Walter Dill Scott offered Miller a position on the university's staff as Freshman Advisor and Waa-Mu Director.\n\nIn 1938, Waa-Mu board members were not pleased with that year's student-written script. Instead, they staged George Gershwin's musical \"Of Thee I Sing\", about a presidential candidate who promises to bring more love to the White House. Actor Tony Randall (who was then known as Leonard Rosenberg), portrayed a boisterous Texas congressman in the production. Only three times in Waa-Mu's history has non-original material been presented; in 1935 with Ray Henderson's musical \"Good News\", in 1938, with George Gershwin's musical \"Of Thee I Sing,\" and in 1993 with Leonard Bernstein's musical \"On the Town\".\n\nWaa-Mu went on hiatus during the World War II years, but was re-launched in 1946. During the three-year break, profits from previous Waa-Mu productions were invested in war bonds. Miller directed the Waa-Mu Show until 1975; his last show was \"Quick Change\". He retired on August 31, 1975 and died in 1979. Tom Roland succeeded Miller as the second director of the Waa-Mu productions in 1976. Occasionally, Waa-Mu has been performed off-campus. The show traveled to Chicago several times after its Evanston run, most notably in 1931 (at the Civic Theatre in Chicago) and 1933. And renowned orchestra leader Fred Waring played original Waa-Mu songs on the radio in 1951.\n\nWaa-Mu performances have been presented at Cahn Auditorium since its 1941 production, \"Wait A Minute\", premiering on the new stage the same year that Scott Hall was completed. Before performances began in Cahn Auditorium, Waa-Mu productions were held at and around the Evanston area, at the New Evanston Theatre and the National College of Education.\n\nMission Statement: The Waa-Mu Show aims to share stories that engage the hearts and minds of Northwestern's campus as well as that of the greater community. The Waa-Mu Show aspires to give students an unparalleled experience that prepares them to lead and advance the world of musical theatre.\n\nValues Statement: The 2017-2018 Co-Chairs aim to facilitate a world class educational opportunity in the writing, performance, and administration of new musical theatre. In doing so, we also strive to foster an inclusive and collaborative community that allows students to learn from one another, while making memories that will last a lifetime.\n\nStephen Schellhardt is the current director of the Waa-Mu show and has been in the role since 2018.\n\nProgram Head: Stephen Schellhardt\n\nDirector: Stephen Schellhardt\n\nMusic Director: Ryan T. Nelson\n\nCo-Chairs: Gabby Green, Ziare Paul-Emile, Alex Rothfield, Lindsay Whisler\n\nAccessibility, Inclusion, and Diversity Co-Directors: Emma Giffone & Amy Prochaska\n\nAlumni Relations Co-Directors: Gaby Godinez & Mia Navarez\n\nCommunity Programming Co-Directors: Alexa Moster & Jon Toussaint\n\nDevelopment Director: Mia Lennon\n\nDigital Media Director: Eli Cohen\n\nEvents Director: Natalie Welch\n\nHistorian: Nolan Robinson\n\nMarketing Director: Theo Janke-Furman\n\nMerchandise: Hope Banach\n\nProduction Manager: Jessica Nekritz\n\nPromotions Director: Emmett Smith\n\nPublic Relations Director: Olivia Worley\n\nTreasurer: Leo Jared Scheck\n\nWaa-2 Co-Directors: Peter Carroll, Danielle Kerr, Ruchir Khazanchi, Lydia Weir\n\nExecutive Team Members:\n\nRuchir Khazanchi, Jasmine Sharma, Rachel Khutorsky, Aubrey Leaman, Elvan Babuna, Gaby Godinez, Hannah Hakim, Alexa Moster, Jessica Nekritz, Vy Duong, Shealyn Abbott, Theo Janke-Furman, Jillian Korey, Emmet Smith, Josh Krivan, Madi Hart, Stella Cole, Jake Larimer, Hope Banach, & Eli Cohen\n\nAll shows from 1929-1975 Directed by Joe W. Miller\n\nAll shows from 1976-1990 Directed by Tom Roland\n\nAll shows from 1991-1993 Co-Directed by Tom Roland and Dominic Missimi\n\nAll shows from 1994-2010 Directed by Dominic Missimi\n\nAll shows from 2011–2012 Directed by David H. Bell\n\n2013 Directed by Michael Goldberg\n\nAll shows from 2014–2017 Directed by David H. Bell\n\nAll shows from 2018–Present Directed by Stephen Schellhardt\n\n\nSeveral different positions and sub-groups with distinct responsibilities exist within the institution to ease the process of creating an original musical each year. They include:\n\nProgram Head: A staff member of the Theatre & Interpretation Center who leads the creation process and makes all final decisions. The Program Head is typically the director of the production as well.\n\nCo-Chairs: The student leaders of the organization who work alongside the Program Head to make decisions about creative and administrative matters.\n\nHead Writers: The student leaders who are in charge of generating and combining material to form a cohesive script for the show.\n\nExecutive Board: A group of students who work under the Co-Chairs to handle all administrative, financial and organizational needs.\n\nCreating the Musical Class: A large group of students enrolled in a winter class who generate material for the show including: the script, songs, and lyrics.\n\nOrchestrating the Musical Class: A group of students enrolled in a winter class who generate orchestrations for the show; many of whom go on to join Team Music.\n\nTeam Music: A group of students led by the Music Director that creates all of the orchestrations for the songs generated in the Creating the Musical class as well as the incidental music and overture.\n\nThe 2016 performance was titled \"Another Way West\". The story follows a female researcher, accompanied by her nieces and nephews, on the Oregon Trail searching for her late ancestor. This show merges the journeys of both the researcher and her ancestor on the Oregon Trail.\n\nIn 2015, the students put on \"Gold,\" based on the 1936 Olympics. The plot centered around journalists sent to report about the Olympics, specifically focusing on the US Basketball Team, the US Swim Team, and the US Track and Field Team. Opening night for the show was May 1, 2015.\n\nInspired by the Shakespeare play, \"Twelfth Night\", the 2014 Waa-Mu Show was \"Double Feature at Hollywood and Vine\". The protagonist, Viola, disguises herself as a man in order to find fame as an actor in the 1930s. Opening night for the show was May 2, 2014.\n\nThe performance in 2013 entitled, \"Flying Home,\" combined the ideas of three very well known productions, \"Peter Pan\", \"Alice in Wonderland\", and \"The Wizard of Oz\". The main theme of this production is about adolescents leaving home and developing throughout college. Opening night for this performance was May 3, 2013.\n\nShows with (*) denote previously produced and non-student written material.\n\n"}
{"id": "24470855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24470855", "title": "Theatro D. Pedro II", "text": "Theatro D. Pedro II\n\nThe Teatro D. Pedro II was a theatre in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The theatre was inaugurated in 1871, and received the name of \"Teatro Imperial D. Pedro II\" in 1875.\n\nIn 1890, after the proclamation of the \"Republic of Brazil\", the theatre was renamed \"Teatro Lyrico\". The building was demolished in 1934.\n\n"}
{"id": "15518062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15518062", "title": "Twentieth Century Society", "text": "Twentieth Century Society\n\nThe Twentieth Century Society (C20) is a British charity which campaigns for the preservation of architectural heritage from 1914 onwards. The society's interests embrace buildings and artefacts that characterise 20th-century Britain. It is formally recognised as one of the National Amenity Societies, and as such is a statutory consultee on alterations to listed buildings within its period of interest, and must be notified of any proposed work to a listed building which involves any element of demolition.\n\nThe society was formed as The Thirties Society in 1979, the year in which the prominent \"Thirties – British art and design before the War\" exhibition was shown at the Hayward Gallery. Its establishment was inspired by and loosely modelled on the Victorian Society, which aims to protect pre-1914 Victorian and Edwardian buildings. Bevis Hillier was the first president, and Clive Aslet the first honorary secretary. In 1992, the society changed its name to The Twentieth Century Society, as it was felt that \"Thirties Society\" failed to indicate its interest in the protection of buildings from other periods as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1156292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156292", "title": "Warburg Institute", "text": "Warburg Institute\n\nThe Warburg Institute is a research institution associated with the University of London in central London, England. A member of the School of Advanced Study, its focus is the study of cultural history and the role of images in culture - cross-disciplinary and global. It is concerned with the histories of art and science, and their relationship with superstition, magic, and popular beliefs.\n\nThe researches of the Warburg Institute are historical, philological and anthropological. It is dedicated to the study of the survival and transmission of cultural forms – whether in literature, art, music or science – across borders and from the earliest times to the present including especially the study of the influence of classical antiquity on all aspects of European civilization.\n\nBased originally in Hamburg, Germany, in 1933 the collection was moved to London, where it became incorporated into the University of London in 1944.\n\nThe Institute was formed in Hamburg, Germany, from the library of Aby Warburg (1866–1929), a student of Renaissance art and culture, and a scion of the wealthy Jewish Warburg family.\n\nAs an art historian, Warburg had become dissatisfied with an aestheticising approach to art history and was interested in a more philosophical and interdisciplinary approach. While studying the culture of Renaissance Florence, he grew interested in the influence of antiquity on modern culture, and the study of this second life of the Classical World became his life work.\n\nIn 1900 he decided to establish the Warburg-Bibliothek für Kulturwissenschaft, but, although he had begun collecting books in 1886, he didn't actually establish his library until 1909.\n\nWarburg was joined in 1913 by the Vienna art historian Fritz Saxl (1890–1948). They discussed the possibility of converting the library into a research institute in 1914, but World War I and illness interfered. After Warburg returned to Hamburg in 1924, he and Saxl initiated the process of conversion, and the Warburg-Bibliothek officially opened its doors as a research institute in 1926.\n\nEventually, the privately funded library, built around the interdisciplinary approach, became enormous. Warburg \"famously forfeited his right to a share of his fortune on condition that his younger brother Max would buy him any books he required\".\n\nThe institute was later affiliated to the University of Hamburg. Neo-Kantian Philosopher and professor at the newly founded University Ernst Cassirer used it, and his students Erwin Panofsky and Edgar Wind worked there.\n\nThe original Warburg Library building in Hamburg is now a research institute, Warburg-Haus Hamburg.\n\nIn 1933, under the shadow of Nazism, the Institute was relocated to London, where, with the aid of Lord Lee of Fareham, Samuel Courtauld, and the Warburg family, it was installed in Thames House in 1934. The Institute moved to the Imperial Institute Buildings in 1937. In 1944 it became associated with the University of London.\n\nHenri Frankfort succeeded Saxl as Director in 1949, and in 1955 was succeeded by Gertrud Bing, who had joined the organization in 1922. During her term as Director, the Institute moved to its current home at the University in 1958. Bing was succeeded by Ernst Gombrich in 1959. From 1976 to 1990, J. B. Trapp was Director, and from 1991 to 2001, Nicholas Mann. In 1994 the Warburg became a founding institute of the University of London's School of Advanced Study.\n\nRecent directors have been Charles Hope (2001 to 2010), Peter Mack (2010 to 2014) and David Freedberg (from July 2015 to April 2017).\n\nIn 2011, legal action was started by the University of London together with the Institute's Advisory Council about their disagreement regarding the meaning of the 1944 deed of trust that granted the University the collection; the pledge \"to maintain and preserve the collection 'in perpetuity' as 'an independent unit'\" is problematised by the institute's annual deficit, estimated at half a million pounds. Several students and scholars who had used the Warburg resources or studied there protested this planned merge. A petition on Change.org to save the Warburg's independence was started by Brooke Palmieri, a student of University College London after working on her PhD. thesis at the Warburg. In only two months, the petition had almost twenty five thousand signatures. In recent years, the University has charged a proportion of its total estate expenditure to the Warburg Institute; as a result, the finances of the once solvent Institute have been strongly affected. In November 2014, a judgement established that the University's conduct in this regard was not acceptable.\n\nThe Institute occupies a large building on Woburn Square, in the University of London's Bloomsbury campus in the central London Borough of Camden. Designed by Charles Holden and built in 1957, the building is adjacent to the University of London Student Union, Birkbeck College, School of Oriental and African Studies, and Christ the King Church. It is also the home of the studio of the Slade School of Fine Art, University College, London.\n\nThe Warburg Institute maintains a research library of more than 350,000 volumes. These volumes, except for a small number of rare and valuable books, are kept on open shelves and are accessible to all. The Institute also holds a large photographic collection and the personal archives of Aby Warburg. The Institute is notable for its unusual and unique reference system: the Institute's collection is arranged by subject according to Warburg's division of human history into the categories of Action, Orientation, Word, and Image. The photographic collection holds the valuable archive of the Image of the Black in Western Art.\n\nIn addition to its primary purpose as an academic reference library, the Institute accepts a small number of graduate students each year. The Institute awards the degrees of Master of Arts in Cultural and Intellectual History (1300–1650) and Master of Arts in Art History, Curatorship and Renaissance culture, Master of Philosophy and Doctor of Philosophy; the first and the second are one-year degrees with taught and research components, the MPhil is a two-year research degree which would usually be expected to lead onto a PhD with further study, and the last is a three-year research degree.\n\nThe emphasis of these programs is on developing interpretative skills in a number of different academic subjects, which follows from the Institute's interdiscplinary mission. Considerable attention is devoted to improving language skills and knowledge of primary sources.\n\nScholars associated with the Warburg Institute include Ernst Cassirer, Rudolf Wittkower, Otto Kurz, Henri Frankfort, Arnaldo Momigliano, Ernst Gombrich, Erwin Panofsky, Edgar Wind, Frances Yates, D. P. Walker, Michael Baxandall, Anthony Grafton, and Elizabeth McGrath. The current group of scholars continues the Institute's tradition of interdisciplinary research into history, philosophy, religion, and art. The permanent staff includes a number of academics and graduate students who hold short and long-term fellowships. Due to the small number of staff, students, and regular users, the Institute prides itself on a friendly and informal teaching and research atmosphere.\n\nTogether with the Courtauld Institute of Art, the Institute publishes \"The Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes\", an annual publication of about 300 pages.\n\n\n\n\n"}
