{"id": "22672845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22672845", "title": "Alejandro Lacayo", "text": "Alejandro Lacayo\n\nAlejandro J. Lacayo Baca\nBorn in Nicaragua August 9, 1951. Attended College at Georgetown University, Washington D.C. 1969/1973\nMr Alejandro J. Lacayo is currently Honorary Consul of Portugal in Nicaragua from June 2018, and Malaysia Honorary Consul in Nicaragua, accredited by the Government of Nicaragua by Presidential decree No 20-2017, His father Alejandro Lacayo Montealegre founded the Monte Rosa Sugar Mill in Nicaragua.\nAlejandro J. Lacayo is currently a business man in Nicaragua growing coffee and sugar cane.\nHe is also involved in Corporate Advisory for infrastructure projects and distribution logistics for Foreign Companies.\nMr. Lacayo played golf for the Nicaraguan National Amateur Seniors Team, competing annually in Central America.\nMr. Lacayo in 2009 was appointed as Honorary Consul General of the Republic of India in Nicaragua. https://web.archive.org/web/20080911172958/http://www.cancilleria.gob.ni/ see Diplomatic and Consular missions accredited in Nicaragua at the Foreign\nMinistry web page. See also India guide to Business in Latin America http://www.businesswithlatinamerica.com/Contacts2.html and India Embassies in Latin America http://www.indembarg.org.ar/en/Indian%20embassies%20in%20LA.html, newspaper article El Nuevodiario http://www.elnuevodiario.com.ni/politica/40521, Ministry of external Affairs Government of India, official web page http://www.mea.gov.in/indian-mission.htm?159/Nicaragua\n"}
{"id": "2880545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880545", "title": "Alta Rockefeller Prentice", "text": "Alta Rockefeller Prentice\n\nAlta Rockefeller Prentice (April 12, 1871 – June 21, 1962) was an American philanthropist and socialite. She was the third daughter of philanthropists John Davison Rockefeller (1839–1937) and Laura Celestia \"Cettie\" Spelman (1839–1915). Alta married attorney Ezra Parmalee Prentice (July 29, 1863 – 1955), son of Sartell Prentice (1837-1905) and Mary Adeline Isham (1838-1913), in 1901. Alta and Ezra had three children: John Rockefeller Prentice (1902–1972), Mary Adeline Prentice (1907–1981), and Spelman Prentice (1911–2000).\n\nShe founded Alta House (c. 1900), a settlement house in Little Italy in Cleveland, Ohio, which is named in her honor.\n\nIn 1910, Alta and Ezra bought 1,400 acres (5.7 km²) of land near Williamstown, Massachusetts. Elm Tree House, the Prentices' 72-room summer home on Mount Hope Farm, was completed in 1928. In the 1930s and 1940s, several geneticists were employed by Ezra to develop more profitable farm animals, particularly cattle and poultry. At that time, Mount Hope Farm was one of the most outstanding experimental farms in the United States. \n\nAlta died in June 1962 at the age of 91. Her property was willed to New York's Lenox Hill Hospital. Shortly thereafter, Elm Tree House was purchased by its current owner, Williams College.\n\n"}
{"id": "22130186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22130186", "title": "Asian Securities and Investments Federation", "text": "Asian Securities and Investments Federation\n\nAsian Securities and Investments Federation (ASIF) is an association of finance and investment professionals throughout Asia and Oceania with 7 member societies. The association seeks to serve the finance and investment community by fostering high professional standards, including examinations and accreditation, and facilitating communication among member societies. ASIF also promotes education through such activities as annual conferences, publications and educational programs.\n\nFormed in 1979 under the name Asian Securities Analysts Council (ASAC), it was subsequently renamed to Asian Securities Analysts Federation (ASAF) in 1995 and to its present title in December 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36204412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36204412", "title": "Bambang Sutrisno", "text": "Bambang Sutrisno\n\nBambang Sutrisno (born in 1941) is one of the top wanted Indonesian fugitive who is living in Singapore with his family which comprises two sons—the youngest of whom is Hansen Sutrisno, born in 1985 and educated in Singapore and London—and a daughter, Chelsea Amanda Sutrisno.\n\nBambang Sutrisno begin building his fortune by working together with brother Benny Suherman and Suwikatmono, the cousin of then President Suharto, to establish 21 Cineplex. 21 Cineplex hosted 650 movie screens in Indonesia. In the mid-1980s. Bambang left PT Suptan Film to start up his own supermarket chain business, the well-known Golden Truly chain, in Indonesia. He also set up Bank Surya. These businesses were once again set up with the help and connections of Suwikatmono, the cousin of then President Suharto. In 1997, during the economic financial crisis, the Indonesian government gave banks such as Bank Surya bailout money and Bambang Sutrisno embezzled 1.5 trillion Indonesian rupiah, the equivalent of around 200 million US dollars. Before he could be arrested, Bambang Sutrisno fled to neighbouring Singapore where he has obtained Permanent Resident status. Bambang Sutrisno was convicted of embezzlement in absentia in 1999 and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n"}
{"id": "3986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3986", "title": "Benjamin Franklin", "text": "Benjamin Franklin\n\nBenjamin Franklin ( April 17, 1790) was an American polymath and one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Franklin was a leading author, printer, political theorist, politician, freemason, postmaster, scientist, inventor, humorist, civic activist, statesman, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod, bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other inventions. He founded many civic organizations, including the Library Company, Philadelphia's first fire department and the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nFranklin earned the title of \"The First American\" for his early and indefatigable campaigning for colonial unity, initially as an author and spokesman in London for several colonies. As the first United States Ambassador to France, he exemplified the emerging American nation. Franklin was foundational in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment. In the words of historian Henry Steele Commager, \"In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its heat.\" To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin \"the most accomplished American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society America would become.\"\n\nFranklin became a successful newspaper editor and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies, publishing the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" at the age of 23. He became wealthy publishing this and \"Poor Richard's Almanack\", which he authored under the pseudonym \"Richard Saunders\". After 1767, he was associated with the \"Pennsylvania Chronicle\", a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments and criticisms of British policies.\n\nHe pioneered and was first president of Academy and College of Philadelphia which opened in 1751 and later became the University of Pennsylvania. He organized and was the first secretary of the American Philosophical Society and was elected president in 1769. Franklin became a national hero in America as an agent for several colonies when he spearheaded an effort in London to have the Parliament of Great Britain repeal the unpopular Stamp Act. An accomplished diplomat, he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations. His efforts proved vital for the American Revolution in securing shipments of crucial munitions from France.\n\nHe was promoted to deputy postmaster-general for the British colonies in 1753, having been Philadelphia postmaster for many years, and this enabled him to set up the first national communications network. During the revolution, he became the first United States Postmaster General. He was active in community affairs and colonial and state politics, as well as national and international affairs. From 1785 to 1788, he served as governor of Pennsylvania. He initially owned and dealt in slaves but, by the 1750s, he argued against slavery from an economic perspective and became one of the most prominent abolitionists.\n\nHis colorful life and legacy of scientific and political achievement, and his status as one of America's most influential Founding Fathers, have seen Franklin honored more than two centuries after his death on coinage and the $100 bill, warships, and the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, and corporations, as well as countless cultural references.\n\nBenjamin Franklin's father, Josiah Franklin, was a tallow chandler, a soaper and candlemaker. Josiah was born at Ecton, Northamptonshire, England on December 23, 1657, the son of blacksmith and farmer Thomas Franklin, and Jane White. Benjamin's father and all four of his grandparents were born in England. Josiah had seventeen children with his two wives. He married his first wife, Anne Child, in about 1677 in Ecton and immigrated with her to Boston in 1683; they had three children before immigrating, and four after. Following her death, Josiah was married to Abiah Folger on July 9, 1689 in the Old South Meeting House by Samuel Willard. Benjamin, their eighth child, was Josiah Franklin's fifteenth child and tenth and last son.\n\nAbiah Folger was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, on August 15, 1667, to Peter Folger, a miller and schoolteacher, and his wife, Mary Morrell Folger, a former indentured servant. She came from a Puritan family that was among the first Pilgrims to flee to Massachusetts for religious freedom, when King Charles I of England began persecuting Puritans. They sailed for Boston in 1635. Her father was \"the sort of rebel destined to transform colonial America.\" As clerk of the court, he was jailed for disobeying the local magistrate in defense of middle-class shopkeepers and artisans in conflict with wealthy landowners. Ben Franklin followed in his grandfather's footsteps in his battles against the wealthy Penn family that owned the Pennsylvania Colony.\n\nBenjamin Franklin was born on Milk Street, in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 17, 1706, and baptized at Old South Meeting House. He was one of seventeen children born to Josiah Franklin, and one of ten born by Josiah's second wife, Abiah Folger; the daughter of Peter Foulger and Mary Morrill. Among Benjamin's siblings were his older brother James and his younger sister Jane.\n\nJosiah wanted Ben to attend school with the clergy, but only had enough money to send him to school for two years. He attended Boston Latin School but did not graduate; he continued his education through voracious reading. Although \"his parents talked of the church as a career\" for Franklin, his schooling ended when he was ten. He worked for his father for a time, and at 12 he became an apprentice to his brother James, a printer, who taught Ben the printing trade. When Ben was 15, James founded \"The New-England Courant\", which was the first truly independent newspaper in the colonies.\n\nWhen denied the chance to write a letter to the paper for publication, Franklin adopted the pseudonym of \"Silence Dogood\", a middle-aged widow. Mrs. Dogood's letters were published, and became a subject of conversation around town. Neither James nor the \"Courant\"'s readers were aware of the ruse, and James was unhappy with Ben when he discovered the popular correspondent was his younger brother. Franklin was an advocate of free speech from an early age. When his brother was jailed for three weeks in 1722 for publishing material unflattering to the governor, young Franklin took over the newspaper and had Mrs. Dogood (quoting \"Cato's Letters\") proclaim: \"Without freedom of thought there can be no such thing as wisdom and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech.\" Franklin left his apprenticeship without his brother's permission, and in so doing became a fugitive.\n\nAt age 17, Franklin ran away to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, seeking a new start in a new city. When he first arrived, he worked in several printer shops around town, but he was not satisfied by the immediate prospects. After a few months, while working in a printing house, Franklin was convinced by Pennsylvania Governor Sir William Keith to go to London, ostensibly to acquire the equipment necessary for establishing another newspaper in Philadelphia. Finding Keith's promises of backing a newspaper empty, Franklin worked as a typesetter in a printer's shop in what is now the Church of St Bartholomew-the-Great in the Smithfield area of London. Following this, he returned to Philadelphia in 1726 with the help of Thomas Denham, a merchant who employed Franklin as clerk, shopkeeper, and bookkeeper in his business.\n\nIn 1727, Benjamin Franklin, then 21, created the Junto, a group of \"like minded aspiring artisans and tradesmen who hoped to improve themselves while they improved their community.\" The Junto was a discussion group for issues of the day; it subsequently gave rise to many organizations in Philadelphia. The Junto was modeled after English coffeehouses that Franklin knew well, and which had become the center of the spread of Enlightenment ideas in Britain.\n\nReading was a great pastime of the Junto, but books were rare and expensive. The members created a library initially assembled from their own books after Franklin wrote:\n\nThis did not suffice, however. Franklin conceived the idea of a subscription library, which would pool the funds of the members to buy books for all to read. This was the birth of the Library Company of Philadelphia: its charter was composed by Franklin in 1731. In 1732, Franklin hired the first American librarian, Louis Timothee. The Library Company is now a great scholarly and research library.\n\nUpon Denham's death, Franklin returned to his former trade. In 1728, Franklin had set up a printing house in partnership with Hugh Meredith; the following year he became the publisher of a newspaper called \"The Pennsylvania Gazette\". The \"Gazette\" gave Franklin a forum for agitation about a variety of local reforms and initiatives through printed essays and observations. Over time, his commentary, and his adroit cultivation of a positive image as an industrious and intellectual young man, earned him a great deal of social respect. But even after Franklin had achieved fame as a scientist and statesman, he habitually signed his letters with the unpretentious 'B. Franklin, Printer.'\n\nIn 1732, Ben Franklin published the first German-language newspaper in America – \"Die Philadelphische Zeitung\" – although it failed after only one year, because four other newly founded German papers quickly dominated the newspaper market. Franklin printed Moravian religious books in German. Franklin often visited Bethlehem, Pennsylvania staying at the Moravian Sun Inn. In a 1751 pamphlet on demographic growth and its implications for the colonies, he called the Pennsylvania Germans \"Palatine Boors\" who could never acquire the \"Complexion\" of the English settlers and referred to \"Blacks and Tawneys\" as weakening the social structure of the colonies. Although Franklin apparently reconsidered shortly thereafter, and the phrases were omitted from all later printings of the pamphlet, his views may have played a role in his political defeat in 1764.\n\nFranklin saw the printing press as a device to instruct colonial Americans in moral virtue. In \"Benjamin Franklin's Journalism\", Ralph Frasca argues he saw this as a service to God, because he understood moral virtue in terms of actions, thus, doing good provides a service to God. Despite his own moral lapses, Franklin saw himself as uniquely qualified to instruct Americans in morality. He tried to influence American moral life through construction of a printing network based on a chain of partnerships from the Carolinas to New England. Franklin thereby invented the first newspaper chain. It was more than a business venture, for like many publishers since, he believed that the press had a public-service duty.\n\nWhen Franklin established himself in Philadelphia, shortly before 1730, the town boasted two \"wretched little\" news sheets, Andrew Bradford's \"The American Weekly Mercury\", and Samuel Keimer's \"Universal Instructor in all Arts and Sciences, and Pennsylvania Gazette\". This instruction in all arts and sciences consisted of weekly extracts from \"Chambers's Universal Dictionary\". Franklin quickly did away with all this when he took over the \"Instructor\" and made it \"The Pennsylvania Gazette\". The \"Gazette\" soon became Franklin's characteristic organ, which he freely used for satire, for the play of his wit, even for sheer excess of mischief or of fun. From the first, he had a way of adapting his models to his own uses. The series of essays called \"The Busy-Body\", which he wrote for Bradford's \"American Mercury\" in 1729, followed the general Addisonian form, already modified to suit homelier conditions. The thrifty Patience, in her busy little shop, complaining of the useless visitors who waste her valuable time, is related to the ladies who address Mr. Spectator. The Busy-Body himself is a true Censor Morum, as Isaac Bickerstaff had been in the \"Tatler\". And a number of the fictitious characters, Ridentius, Eugenius, Cato, and Cretico, represent traditional 18th-century classicism. Even this Franklin could use for contemporary satire, since Cretico, the \"sowre Philosopher\", is evidently a portrait of Franklin's rival, Samuel Keimer.\n\nThe \"Pennsylvania Gazette\", like most other newspapers of the period, was often poorly printed. Franklin was busy with a hundred matters outside of his printing office, and never seriously attempted to raise the mechanical standards of his trade. Nor did he ever properly edit or collate the chance medley of stale items that passed for news in the \"Gazette.\" His influence on the practical side of journalism was minimal. On the other hand, his advertisements of books show his very great interest in popularizing secular literature. Undoubtedly his paper contributed to the broader culture that distinguished Pennsylvania from her neighbors before the Revolution. Like many publishers, Franklin built up a book shop in his printing office; he took the opportunity to read new books before selling them. \n\nFranklin had mixed success in his plan to establish an inter-colonial network of newspapers that would produce a profit for him and disseminate virtue. He began in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1731. After the second editor died, his widow Elizabeth Timothy took over and made it a success, 1738–46. She was one of the colonial era's first woman printers. For three decades Franklin maintained a close business relationship with her and her son Peter who took over in 1746. The \"Gazette\" had a policy of impartiality in political debates, while creating the opportunity for public debate, which encouraged others to challenge authority. Editor Peter Timothy avoided blandness and crude bias, and after 1765 increasingly took a patriotic stand in the growing crisis with Great Britain. However, Franklin's \"Connecticut Gazette\" (1755–68) proved unsuccessful.\n\nIn 1730 or 1731, Franklin was initiated into the local Masonic lodge. He became a Grand Master in 1734, indicating his rapid rise to prominence in Pennsylvania. The same year, he edited and published the first Masonic book in the Americas, a reprint of James Anderson's \"Constitutions of the Free-Masons\". He was the Secretary of St. John's Lodge in Philadelphia from 1735 to 1738. Franklin remained a Freemason for the rest of his life.\n\nAt age 17 in 1723, Franklin proposed to 15-year-old Deborah Read while a boarder in the Read home. At that time, Read's mother was wary of allowing her young daughter to marry Franklin, who was on his way to London at Governor Sir William Keith's request, and also because of his financial instability. Her own husband had recently died, and she declined Franklin's request to marry her daughter.\n\nWhile Franklin was in London, his trip was extended, and there were problems with Sir William's promises of support. Perhaps because of the circumstances of this delay, Deborah married a man named John Rodgers. This proved to be a regrettable decision. Rodgers shortly avoided his debts and prosecution by fleeing to Barbados with her dowry, leaving her behind. Rodgers's fate was unknown, and because of bigamy laws, Deborah was not free to remarry.\n\nFranklin established a common-law marriage with Deborah Read on September 1, 1730. They took in Franklin's recently acknowledged young illegitimate son William and raised him in their household. They had two children together. Their son, Francis Folger Franklin, was born in October 1732 and died of smallpox in 1736. Their daughter, Sarah \"Sally\" Franklin, was born in 1743 and grew up to marry Richard Bache, have seven children, and look after her father in his old age.\n\nDeborah's fear of the sea meant that she never accompanied Franklin on any of his extended trips to Europe, and another possible reason why they spent so much time apart is that he may have blamed her for preventing their son Francis from being vaccinated against the disease that subsequently killed him. Deborah wrote to him in November 1769 saying she was ill due to \"dissatisfied distress\" from his prolonged absence, but he did not return until his business was done. Deborah Read Franklin died of a stroke in 1774, while Franklin was on an extended mission to England; he returned in 1775.\n\nIn 1730, 24-year-old Franklin publicly acknowledged the existence of his son William, who was deemed \"illegitimate,\" as he was born out of wedlock, and raised him in his household. His mother's identity is unknown. He was educated in Philadelphia. Beginning at about age 30, William studied law in London in the early 1760s. He fathered an illegitimate son, William Temple Franklin, born February 22, 1762. The boy's mother was never identified, and he was placed in foster care. Later in 1762, William married Elizabeth Downes, daughter of a planter from Barbados. After William passed the bar, his father helped him gain an appointment in 1763 as the last Royal Governor of New Jersey.\n\nA Loyalist, William and his father eventually broke relations over their differences about the American Revolutionary War. The elder Franklin could never accept William's position. Deposed in 1776 by the revolutionary government of New Jersey, William was arrested at his home in Perth Amboy at the Proprietary House and imprisoned for a time. The younger Franklin went to New York in 1782, which was still occupied by British troops. He became leader of the Board of Associated Loyalists—a quasi-military organization, headquartered in New York City. They initiated guerrilla forays into New Jersey, southern Connecticut, and New York counties north of the city. When British troops evacuated from New York, William Franklin left with them and sailed to England. He settled in London, never to return to North America. In the preliminary peace talks in 1782 with Britain, \"... Benjamin Franklin insisted that loyalists who had borne arms against the United States would be excluded from this plea (that they be given a general pardon). He was undoubtedly thinking of William Franklin.\"\n\nIn 1733, Franklin began to publish the noted \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" (with content both original and borrowed) under the pseudonym Richard Saunders, on which much of his popular reputation is based. Franklin frequently wrote under pseudonyms. Although it was no secret that Franklin was the author, his Richard Saunders character repeatedly denied it. \"Poor Richard's Proverbs\", adages from this almanac, such as \"A penny saved is twopence dear\" (often misquoted as \"A penny saved is a penny earned\") and \"Fish and visitors stink in three days\", remain common quotations in the modern world. Wisdom in folk society meant the ability to provide an apt adage for any occasion, and Franklin's readers became well prepared. He sold about ten thousand copies per year—it became an institution. In 1741 Franklin began publishing \"The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British Plantations in America\", the first such monthly magazine of this type published in America.\n\nIn 1758, the year he ceased writing for the Almanack, he printed \"Father Abraham's Sermon\", also known as \"The Way to Wealth\". Franklin's autobiography, begun in 1771 but published after his death, has become one of the classics of the genre.\n\nDaylight saving time (DST) is often erroneously attributed to a 1784 satire that Franklin published anonymously. Modern DST was first proposed by George Vernon Hudson in 1895.\n\nFranklin was a prodigious inventor. Among his many creations were the lightning rod, glass harmonica (a glass instrument, not to be confused with the metal harmonica), Franklin stove, bifocal glasses and the flexible urinary catheter. Franklin never patented his inventions; in his autobiography he wrote, \"... as we enjoy great advantages from the inventions of others, we should be glad of an opportunity to serve others by any invention of ours; and this we should do freely and generously.\"\n\nFranklin started exploring the phenomenon of electricity in 1746 when he saw some of Archibald Spencer's lectures using static electricity for illustrations. Franklin proposed that \"vitreous\" and \"resinous\" electricity were not different types of \"electrical fluid\" (as electricity was called then), but the same \"fluid\" under different pressures. (The same proposal was made independently that same year by William Watson.) Franklin was the first to label them as positive and negative respectively, and he was the first to discover the principle of conservation of charge. In 1748 he constructed a multiple plate capacitor, that he called an \"electrical battery\" (not to be confused with Volta's pile) by placing eleven panes of glass sandwiched between lead plates, suspended with silk cords and connected by wires.\n\nIn recognition of his work with electricity, Franklin received the Royal Society's Copley Medal in 1753, and in 1756 he became one of the few 18th-century Americans elected as a Fellow of the Society. He received honorary degrees from Harvard and Yale universities (his first). The cgs unit of electric charge has been named after him: one \"franklin\" (Fr) is equal to one statcoulomb.\n\nFranklin advised Harvard University in its acquisition of new electrical laboratory apparatus after the complete loss of its original collection, in a fire which destroyed the original Harvard Hall in 1764. The collection he assembled would later become part of the Harvard Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments, now on public display in its Science Center.\n\nFranklin briefly investigated electrotherapy, including the use of the electric bath. This work led to the field becoming widely known.\n\nIn 1750, he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning storm. On May 10, 1752, Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's experiment using a iron rod instead of a kite, and he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud. On June 15 Franklin may possibly have conducted his well-known kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully extracting sparks from a cloud. Franklin described the experiment in the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" on October 19, 1752, without mentioning that he himself had performed it. This account was read to the Royal Society on December 21 and printed as such in the \"Philosophical Transactions\". Joseph Priestley published an account with additional details in his 1767 \"History and Present Status of Electricity\". Franklin was careful to stand on an insulator, keeping dry under a roof to avoid the danger of electric shock. Others, such as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann in Russia, were indeed electrocuted in performing lightning experiments during the months immediately following Franklin's experiment.\n\nIn his writings, Franklin indicates that he was aware of the dangers and offered alternative ways to demonstrate that lightning was electrical, as shown by his use of the concept of electrical ground. Franklin did not perform this experiment in the way that is often pictured in popular literature, flying the kite and waiting to be struck by lightning, as it would have been dangerous. Instead he used the kite to collect some electric charge from a storm cloud, showing that lightning was electrical. On October 19 in a letter to England with directions for repeating the experiment, Franklin wrote:\n\nFranklin's electrical experiments led to his invention of the lightning rod. He said that conductors with a sharp rather than a smooth point could discharge silently, and at a far greater distance. He surmised that this could help protect buildings from lightning by attaching \"upright Rods of Iron, made sharp as a Needle and gilt to prevent Rusting, and from the Foot of those Rods a Wire down the outside of the Building into the Ground; ... Would not these pointed Rods probably draw the Electrical Fire silently out of a Cloud before it came nigh enough to strike, and thereby secure us from that most sudden and terrible Mischief!\" Following a series of experiments on Franklin's own house, lightning rods were installed on the Academy of Philadelphia (later the University of Pennsylvania) and the Pennsylvania State House (later Independence Hall) in 1752.\n\nFranklin had a major influence on the emerging science of demography, or population studies. Thomas Malthus is noted for his rule of population growth and credited Franklin for discovering it. Kammen (1990) and Drake (2011) say Franklin's \"Observations on the Increase of Mankind\" (1755) stands alongside Ezra Stiles' \"Discourse on Christian Union\" (1760) as the leading works of eighteenth-century Anglo-American demography; Drake credits Franklin's \"wide readership and prophetic insight.\"\n\nIn the 1730s and 1740s, Franklin began taking notes on population growth, finding that the American population had the fastest growth rate on earth. Emphasizing that population growth depended on food supplies—a line of thought later developed by Thomas Malthus—Franklin emphasized the abundance of food and available farmland in America. He calculated that America's population was doubling every twenty years and would surpass that of England in a century. In 1751, he drafted \"Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, &c.\" Four years later, it was anonymously printed in Boston, and it was quickly reproduced in Britain, where it influenced the economist Adam Smith and later the demographer Thomas Malthus. Franklin's predictions alarmed British leaders who did not want to be surpassed by the colonies, so they became more willing to impose restrictions on the colonial economy.\n\nFranklin was also a pioneer in the study of slave demography, as shown in his 1755 essay.\n\nAs deputy postmaster, Franklin became interested in the North Atlantic Ocean circulation patterns. While in England in 1768, he heard a complaint from the Colonial Board of Customs: Why did it take British packet ships carrying mail several weeks longer to reach New York than it took an average merchant ship to reach Newport, Rhode Island? The merchantmen had a longer and more complex voyage because they left from London, while the packets left from Falmouth in Cornwall.\n\nFranklin put the question to his cousin Timothy Folger, a Nantucket whaler captain, who told him that merchant ships routinely avoided a strong eastbound mid-ocean current. The mail packet captains sailed dead into it, thus fighting an adverse current of . Franklin worked with Folger and other experienced ship captains, learning enough to chart the current and name it the Gulf Stream, by which it is still known today.\n\nFranklin published his Gulf Stream chart in 1770 in England, where it was completely ignored. Subsequent versions were printed in France in 1778 and the U.S. in 1786. The British edition of the chart, which was the original, was so thoroughly ignored that everyone assumed it was lost forever until Phil Richardson, a Woods Hole oceanographer and Gulf Stream expert, discovered it in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris in 1980. This find received front-page coverage in \"The New York Times\".\n\nIt took many years for British sea captains to adopt Franklin's advice on navigating the current; once they did, they were able to trim two weeks from their sailing time. In 1853, the oceanographer and cartographer Matthew Fontaine Maury noted that while Franklin charted and codified the Gulf Stream, he did not discover it:\n\nFranklin was, along with his contemporary Leonhard Euler, the only major scientist who supported Christiaan Huygens's wave theory of light, which was basically ignored by the rest of the scientific community. In the 18th century Newton's corpuscular theory was held to be true; only after Young's well-known slit experiment in 1803 were most scientists persuaded to believe Huygens's theory.\n\nOn October 21, 1743, according to popular myth, a storm moving from the southwest denied Franklin the opportunity of witnessing a lunar eclipse. Franklin was said to have noted that the prevailing winds were actually from the northeast, contrary to what he had expected. In correspondence with his brother, Franklin learned that the same storm had not reached Boston until after the eclipse, despite the fact that Boston is to the northeast of Philadelphia. He deduced that storms do not always travel in the direction of the prevailing wind, a concept that greatly influenced meteorology.\n\nAfter the Icelandic volcanic eruption of Laki in 1783, and the subsequent harsh European winter of 1784, Franklin made observations connecting the causal nature of these two separate events. He wrote about them in a lecture series.\n\nThough Benjamin Franklin has been most noted kite-wise with his lightning experiments, he has also been noted by many for his using kites to pull humans and ships across waterways. The George Pocock in the book \"A TREATISE on The Aeropleustic Art, or Navigation in the Air, by means of Kites, or Buoyant Sails\" noted being inspired by Benjamin Franklin's traction of his body by kite power across a waterway. In his later years he suggested using the technique for pulling ships.\n\nFranklin noted a principle of refrigeration by observing that on a very hot day, he stayed cooler in a wet shirt in a breeze than he did in a dry one. To understand this phenomenon more clearly Franklin conducted experiments. In 1758 on a warm day in Cambridge, England, Franklin and fellow scientist John Hadley experimented by continually wetting the ball of a mercury thermometer with ether and using bellows to evaporate the ether. With each subsequent evaporation, the thermometer read a lower temperature, eventually reaching . Another thermometer showed that the room temperature was constant at . In his letter \"Cooling by Evaporation\", Franklin noted that, \"One may see the possibility of freezing a man to death on a warm summer's day.\"\n\nAccording to Michael Faraday, Franklin's experiments on the non-conduction of ice are worth mentioning, although the law of the general effect of liquefaction on electrolytes is not attributed to Franklin. However, as reported in 1836 by Prof. A. D. Bache of the University of Pennsylvania, the law of the effect of heat on the conduction of bodies otherwise non-conductors, for example, glass, could be attributed to Franklin. Franklin writes, \"... A certain quantity of heat will make some bodies good conductors, that will not otherwise conduct ...\" and again, \"... And water, though naturally a good conductor, will not conduct well when frozen into ice.\"\n\nAn aging Franklin accumulated all his oceanographic findings in \"Maritime Observations\", published by the Philosophical Society's \"transactions\" in 1786. It contained ideas for sea anchors, catamaran hulls, watertight compartments, shipboard lightning rods and a soup bowl designed to stay stable in stormy weather.\n\nIn a 1772 letter to Joseph Priestley, Franklin lays out the earliest known description of the Pro & Con list, a common decision-making technique, now sometimes called a decisional balance sheet:\n\n... my Way is, to divide half a Sheet of Paper by a Line into two Columns, writing over the one \"Pro\", and over the other \"Con\". Then during three or four Days Consideration I put down under the different Heads short Hints of the different Motives that at different Times occur to me for or against the Measure. When I have thus got them all together in one View, I endeavour to estimate their respective Weights; and where I find two, one on each side, that seem equal, I strike them both out: If I find a Reason \"pro\" equal to some two Reasons \"con\", I strike out the three. If I judge some two Reasons \"con\" equal to some three Reasons \"pro\", I strike out the five; and thus proceeding I find at length where the Ballance lies; and if after a Day or two of farther Consideration nothing new that is of Importance occurs on either side, I come to a Determination accordingly.\n\nWhile traveling on a ship, Franklin had observed that the wake of a ship was diminished when the cooks scuttled their greasy water. He studied the effects on a large pond in Clapham Common, London. \"I fetched out a cruet of oil and dropt a little of it on the water ... though not more than a teaspoon full, produced an instant calm over a space of several yards square.\" He later used the trick to \"calm the waters\" by carrying \"a little oil in the hollow joint of my cane\".\n\nFranklin is known to have played the violin, the harp, and the guitar. He also composed music, notably a string quartet in early classical style. While he was in London, he developed a much-improved version of the glass harmonica, in which the glasses rotate on a shaft, with the player's fingers held steady, instead of the other way around. He worked with the London glassblower Charles James to create it, and instruments based on his mechanical version soon found their way to other parts of Europe. Joesph Haydn (a fan of Franklin's enlightened ideas) had a glass harmonica in his instrument collection. Beethoven wrote a sonata for the glass harmonica.\n\nFranklin was an avid chess player. He was playing chess by around 1733, making him the first chess player known by name in the American colonies. His essay on \"The Morals of Chess\" in \"Columbian\" magazine in December 1786 is the second known writing on chess in America. This essay in praise of chess and prescribing a code of behavior for the game has been widely reprinted and translated. He and a friend also used chess as a means of learning the Italian language, which both were studying; the winner of each game between them had the right to assign a task, such as parts of the Italian grammar to be learned by heart, to be performed by the loser before their next meeting.\n\nFranklin was able to play chess more frequently against stronger opposition during his many years as a civil servant and diplomat in England, where the game was far better established than in America. He was able to improve his playing standard by facing more experienced players during this period. He regularly attended Old Slaughter's Coffee House in London for chess and socializing, making many important personal contacts. While in Paris, both as a visitor and later as ambassador, he visited the famous Café de la Régence, which France's strongest players made their regular meeting place. No records of his games have survived, so it is not possible to ascertain his playing strength in modern terms.\n\nFranklin was inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame in 1999. The Franklin Mercantile Chess Club in Philadelphia, the second oldest chess club in the U.S., is named in his honor.\n\nIn 1736, Franklin created the Union Fire Company, one of the first volunteer firefighting companies in America. In the same year, he printed a new currency for New Jersey based on innovative anti-counterfeiting techniques he had devised. Throughout his career, Franklin was an advocate for paper money, publishing \"A Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency\" in 1729, and his printer printed money. He was influential in the more restrained and thus successful monetary experiments in the Middle Colonies, which stopped deflation without causing excessive inflation. In 1766 he made a case for paper money to the British House of Commons.\n\nAs he matured, Franklin began to concern himself more with public affairs. In 1743, he first devised a scheme for The Academy, Charity School, and College of Philadelphia. However, the person he had in mind to run the academy, Rev. Richard Peters, refused and Franklin put his ideas away until 1749, when he printed his own pamphlet, \"Proposals Relating to the Education of Youth in Pensilvania.\" He was appointed president of the Academy on November 13, 1749; the Academy and the Charity School opened on August 13, 1751.\n\nIn 1743, Franklin founded the American Philosophical Society to help scientific men discuss their discoveries and theories. He began the electrical research that, along with other scientific inquiries, would occupy him for the rest of his life, in between bouts of politics and moneymaking.\n\nIn 1747, Franklin (already a very wealthy man) retired from printing and went into other businesses. He created a partnership with his foreman, David Hall, which provided Franklin with half of the shop's profits for 18 years. This lucrative business arrangement provided leisure time for study, and in a few years he had made discoveries that gave him a reputation with educated persons throughout Europe and especially in France.\n\nFranklin became involved in Philadelphia politics and rapidly progressed. In October 1748, he was selected as a councilman, in June 1749 he became a Justice of the Peace for Philadelphia, and in 1751 he was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly. On August 10, 1753, Franklin was appointed deputy postmaster-general of British North America, (see below). His most notable service in domestic politics was his reform of the postal system, with mail sent out every week.\n\nIn 1751, Franklin and Dr. Thomas Bond obtained a charter from the Pennsylvania legislature to establish a hospital. Pennsylvania Hospital was the first hospital in what was to become the United States of America.\n\nIn 1752, Franklin organized the Philadelphia Contributionship, the first homeowner's insurance company in what would become the United States.\n\nBetween 1750 and 1753, the \"educational triumvirate\" of Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the American Dr. Samuel Johnson of Stratford, Connecticut, and the immigrant Scottish schoolteacher Dr. William Smith built on Franklin's initial scheme and created what Bishop James Madison, president of the College of William & Mary, called a \"new-model\" plan or style of American college. Franklin solicited, printed in 1752, and promoted an American textbook of moral philosophy from the American Dr. Samuel Johnson titled \"Elementa Philosophica\" to be taught in the new colleges to replace courses in denominational divinity.\n\nIn June 1753, Johnson, Franklin, and Smith met in Stratford. They decided the new-model college would focus on the professions, with classes taught in English instead of Latin, have subject matter experts as professors instead of one tutor leading a class for four years, and there would be no religious test for admission. Johnson went on to found King's College (now Columbia University) in New York City in 1754, while Franklin hired Smith as Provost of the College of Philadelphia, which opened in 1755. At its first commencement, on May 17, 1757, seven men graduated; six with a Bachelor of Arts and one as Master of Arts. It was later merged with the University of the State of Pennsylvania to become the University of Pennsylvania. The College was to become influential in guiding : in the Continental Congress, for example, over one third of the college-affiliated men who contributed the \"Declaration of Independence\" between September 4, 1774, and July 4, 1776, were affiliated with the College.\n\nIn 1753, both Harvard and Yale awarded him honorary degrees.\n\nIn 1754, he headed the Pennsylvania delegation to the Albany Congress. This meeting of several colonies had been requested by the Board of Trade in England to improve relations with the Indians and defense against the French. Franklin proposed a broad Plan of Union for the colonies. While the plan was not adopted, elements of it found their way into the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution.\n\nIn 1756, Franklin received an honorary master of arts degree from the College of William and Mary. Later in 1756, Franklin organized the Pennsylvania Militia (see \"Associated Regiment of Philadelphia\" under heading of Pennsylvania's 103rd Artillery and 111th Infantry Regiment at Continental Army). He used Tun Tavern as a gathering place to recruit a regiment of soldiers to go into battle against the Native American uprisings that beset the American colonies. Reportedly Franklin was elected \"Colonel\" of the Associated Regiment but declined the honor.\n\nFrom the mid 1750s to the mid 1770s, Franklin spent much of his time in London. Officially he was there on a political mission, but he used his time to further his scientific explorations as well, meeting many notable people.\n\nIn 1757, he was sent to England by the Pennsylvania Assembly as a colonial agent to protest against the political influence of the Penn family, the proprietors of the colony. He remained there for five years, striving to end the proprietors' prerogative to overturn legislation from the elected Assembly, and their exemption from paying taxes on their land. His lack of influential allies in Whitehall led to the failure of this mission.\n\nAt this time, many members of the Pennsylvania Assembly were feuding with William Penn's heirs, who controlled the colony as proprietors. After his return to the colony, Franklin led the \"anti-proprietary party\" in the struggle against the Penn family, and was elected Speaker of the Pennsylvania House in May 1764. His call for a change from proprietary to royal government was a rare political miscalculation, however: Pennsylvanians worried that such a move would endanger their political and religious freedoms. Because of these fears, and because of political attacks on his character, Franklin lost his seat in the October 1764 Assembly elections. The anti-proprietary party dispatched Franklin to England again to continue the struggle against the Penn family proprietorship. During this trip, events drastically changed the nature of his mission.\n\nIn London, Franklin opposed the 1765 Stamp Act. Unable to prevent its passage, he made another political miscalculation and recommended a friend to the post of stamp distributor for Pennsylvania. Pennsylvanians were outraged, believing that he had supported the measure all along, and threatened to destroy his home in Philadelphia. Franklin soon learned of the extent of colonial resistance to the Stamp Act, and he testified during the House of Commons proceedings that led to its repeal.\n\nWith this, Franklin suddenly emerged as the leading spokesman for American interests in England. He wrote popular essays on behalf of the colonies. Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts also appointed him as their agent to the Crown.\n\nFranklin lodged in a house in Craven Street, just off The Strand in central London. During his stays there, he developed a close friendship with his landlady, Margaret Stevenson, and her circle of friends and relations, in particular her daughter Mary, who was more often known as Polly. Their house, which he used on various lengthy missions from 1757 to 1775, is the only one of his residences to survive. It opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House museum in 2006.\n\nWhilst in London, Franklin became involved in radical politics. He belonged to a gentleman's club (which he called \"the honest Whigs\"), which held stated meetings, and included members such as Richard Price, the minister of Newington Green Unitarian Church who ignited the Revolution Controversy, and Andrew Kippis.\n\nIn 1756, Franklin had become a member of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (now the Royal Society of Arts or RSA), which had been founded in 1754 and whose early meetings took place in Covent Garden coffee shops. After his return to the United States in 1775, Franklin became the Society's Corresponding Member, continuing a close connection. The RSA instituted a Benjamin Franklin Medal in 1956 to commemorate the 250th anniversary of his birth and the 200th anniversary of his membership of the RSA.\n\nThe study of natural philosophy (what we would call science) drew him into overlapping circles of acquaintance. Franklin was, for example, a corresponding member of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which included such other scientific and industrial luminaries as Matthew Boulton, James Watt, Josiah Wedgwood and Erasmus Darwin; on occasion he visited them.\n\nIn 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded Franklin an honorary doctorate in recognition of his accomplishments. He was also awarded an honorary doctorate by Oxford University in 1762. Because of these honors, Franklin was often addressed as \"Dr. Franklin.\"\n\nFranklin also managed to secure an appointed post for his illegitimate son, William Franklin, by then an attorney, as Colonial Governor of New Jersey.\n\nWhile living in London in 1768, he developed a phonetic alphabet in \"A Scheme for a new Alphabet and a Reformed Mode of Spelling\". This reformed alphabet discarded six letters Franklin regarded as redundant (c, j, q, w, x, and y), and substituted six new letters for sounds he felt lacked letters of their own. This alphabet never caught on, and he eventually lost interest.\n\nFranklin used London as a base to travel. In 1771, he made short journeys through different parts of England, staying with Joseph Priestley at Leeds, Thomas Percival at Manchester and Erasmus Darwin at Lichfield.\n\nIn Scotland, he spent five days with Lord Kames near Stirling and stayed for three weeks with David Hume in Edinburgh. In 1759, he visited Edinburgh with his son, and recalled his conversations there as \"the \"densest\" happiness of my life\". In February 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. From then he was known as \"Doctor Franklin\". In October of the same year he was granted Freedom of the Borough of St Andrews.\n\nHe had never been to Ireland before, and met and stayed with Lord Hillsborough, who he believed was especially attentive. Franklin noted of him that \"all the plausible behaviour I have described is meant only, by patting and stroking the horse, to make him more patient, while the reins are drawn tighter, and the spurs set deeper into his sides.\" In Dublin, Franklin was invited to sit with the members of the Irish Parliament rather than in the gallery. He was the first American to receive this honor. While touring Ireland, he was moved by the level of poverty he saw. Ireland's economy was affected by the same trade regulations and laws of Britain that governed America. Franklin feared that America could suffer the same effects should Britain's \"colonial exploitation\" continue.\n\nFranklin spent two months in German lands in 1766, but his connections to the country stretched across a lifetime. He declared a debt of gratitude to German scientist Otto von Guericke for his early studies of electricity. Franklin also co-authored the first treaty of friendship between Prussia and America in 1785.\n\nIn September 1767, Franklin visited Paris with his usual traveling partner, Sir John Pringle. News of his electrical discoveries was widespread in France. His reputation meant that he was introduced to many influential scientists and politicians, and also to King Louis XV.\n\nOne line of argument in Parliament was that Americans should pay a share of the costs of the French and Indian War, and that therefore taxes should be levied on them. Franklin became the American spokesman in highly publicized testimony in Parliament in 1766. He stated that Americans already contributed heavily to the defense of the Empire. He said local governments had raised, outfitted and paid 25,000 soldiers to fight France—as many as Britain itself sent—and spent many millions from American treasuries doing so in the French and Indian War alone.\n\nIn 1773, Franklin published two of his most celebrated pro-American satirical essays: , and \"An Edict by the King of Prussia\".\n\nIn 1772, Franklin obtained private letters of Thomas Hutchinson and Andrew Oliver, governor and lieutenant governor of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, proving that they had encouraged the Crown to crack down on Bostonians. Franklin sent them to America, where they escalated the tensions. The letters were finally leaked to the public in the \"Boston Gazette\" in mid-June 1773, causing a political firestorm in Massachusetts and raising significant questions in England. The British began to regard him as the fomenter of serious trouble. Hopes for a peaceful solution ended as he was systematically ridiculed and humiliated by Solicitor-General Alexander Wedderburn, before the Privy Council on January 29, 1774. He returned to Philadelphia in March 1775, and abandoned his accommodationist stance.\n\nIn 1763, soon after Franklin returned to Pennsylvania from England for the first time, the western frontier was engulfed in a bitter war known as Pontiac's Rebellion. The Paxton Boys, a group of settlers convinced that the Pennsylvania government was not doing enough to protect them from American Indian raids, murdered a group of peaceful Susquehannock Indians and marched on Philadelphia. Franklin helped to organize a local militia to defend the capital against the mob. He met with the Paxton leaders and persuaded them to disperse. Franklin wrote a scathing attack against the racial prejudice of the Paxton Boys. \"If an \"Indian\" injures me\", he asked, \"does it follow that I may revenge that Injury on all \"Indians\"?\"\n\nHe provided an early response to British surveillance through his own network of counter-surveillance and manipulation. \"He waged a public relations campaign, secured secret aid, played a role in privateering expeditions, and churned out effective and inflammatory propaganda.\"\n\nBy the time Franklin arrived in Philadelphia on May 5, 1775, after his second mission to Great Britain, the American Revolution had begun—with fighting between colonials and British at Lexington and Concord. The New England militia had trapped the main British army in Boston. The Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously chose Franklin as their delegate to the Second Continental Congress. In June 1776, he was appointed a member of the Committee of Five that drafted the Declaration of Independence. Although he was temporarily disabled by gout and unable to attend most meetings of the Committee, Franklin made several \"small but important\" changes to the draft sent to him by Thomas Jefferson.\n\nAt the signing, he is quoted as having replied to a comment by John Hancock that they must all hang together: \"Yes, we must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly we shall all hang separately.\"\n\nWell known as a printer and publisher, Franklin was appointed postmaster of Philadelphia in 1737, holding the office until 1753, when he and publisher William Hunter were named deputy postmasters–general of British North America, the first to hold the office. (Joint appointments were standard at the time, for political reasons.) Franklin was responsible for the British colonies from Pennsylvania north and east, as far as the island of Newfoundland. A post office for local and outgoing mail had been established in Halifax, Nova Scotia, by local stationer Benjamin Leigh, on April 23, 1754, but service was irregular. Franklin opened the first post office to offer regular, monthly mail in what would later become Canada, at Halifax, on December 9, 1755. Meantime, Hunter became postal administrator in Williamsburg, Virginia and oversaw areas south of Annapolis, Maryland. Franklin reorganized the service's accounting system, then improved speed of delivery between Philadelphia, New York and Boston. By 1761, efficiencies led to the first profits for the colonial post office.\n\nWhen the lands of New France were ceded to the British under the Treaty of Paris in 1763, the new British province of Quebec was created among them, and Franklin saw mail service expanded between Montreal, Trois-Rivières, Quebec City, and New York. For the greater part of his appointment, Franklin lived in England (from 1757 to 1762, and again from 1764 to 1774)—about three-quarters of his term. Eventually, his sympathies for the rebel cause in the American Revolution led to his dismissal on January 31, 1774.\n\nOn July 26, 1775, the Second Continental Congress established the United States Post Office and named Benjamin Franklin as the first United States Postmaster General. Franklin had been a postmaster for decades and was a natural choice for the position. He had just returned from England and was appointed chairman of a Committee of Investigation to establish a postal system. The report of the Committee, providing for the appointment of a postmaster general for the 13 American colonies, was considered by the Continental Congress on July 25 and 26. On July 26, 1775, Franklin was appointed Postmaster General, the first appointed under the Continental Congress. It established a postal system that became the United States Post Office, a system that continues to operate today.\n\nIn December 1776, Franklin was dispatched to France as commissioner for the United States. He took with him as secretary his 16-year-old grandson, William Temple Franklin. They lived in a home in the Parisian suburb of Passy, donated by Jacques-Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont, who supported the United States. Franklin remained in France until 1785. He conducted the affairs of his country toward the French nation with great success, which included securing a critical military alliance in 1778 and negotiating the Treaty of Paris (1783).\n\nAmong his associates in France was Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, comte de Mirabeau—a French Revolutionary writer, orator and statesman who in early 1791 would be elected president of the National Assembly. In July 1784, Franklin met with Mirabeau and contributed anonymous materials that the Frenchman used in his first signed work: \"Considerations sur l'ordre de Cincinnatus\". The publication was critical of the Society of the Cincinnati, established in the United States. Franklin and Mirabeau thought of it as a \"noble order\", inconsistent with the egalitarian ideals of the new republic.\n\nDuring his stay in France, Benjamin Franklin was active as a Freemason, serving as Venerable Master of the Lodge Les Neuf Sœurs from 1779 until 1781. He was the 106th member of the Lodge. In 1784, when Franz Mesmer began to publicize his theory of \"animal magnetism\" which was considered offensive by many, Louis XVI appointed a commission to investigate it. These included the chemist Antoine Lavoisier, the physician Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, the astronomer Jean Sylvain Bailly, and Benjamin Franklin. In 1781, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFranklin's advocacy for religious tolerance in France contributed to arguments made by French philosophers and politicians that resulted in Louis XVI's signing of the Edict of Versailles in November 1787. This edict effectively nullified the Edict of Fontainebleau, which had denied non-Catholics civil status and the right to openly practice their faith.\n\nFranklin also served as American minister to Sweden, although he never visited that country. He negotiated a treaty that was signed in April 1783. On August 27, 1783, in Paris, Franklin witnessed the world's first hydrogen balloon flight. \"Le Globe\", created by professor Jacques Charles and Les Frères Robert, was watched by a vast crowd as it rose from the Champ de Mars (now the site of the Eiffel Tower). Franklin became so enthusiastic that he subscribed financially to the next project to build a manned hydrogen balloon. On December 1, 1783, Franklin was seated in the special enclosure for honoured guests when \"La Charlière\" took off from the Jardin des Tuileries, piloted by Jacques Charles and Nicolas-Louis Robert.\n\nWhen he returned home in 1785, Franklin occupied a position only second to that of George Washington as the champion of American independence. Le Ray honored him with a commissioned portrait painted by Joseph Duplessis, which now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C. After his return, Franklin became an abolitionist and freed his two slaves. He eventually became president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society.\n\nIn 1787, Franklin served as a delegate to the Philadelphia Convention. He held an honorary position and seldom engaged in debate. He is the only Founding Father who is a signatory of all four of the major documents of the founding of the United States: the Declaration of Independence, the Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Paris and the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1787, a group of prominent ministers in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, proposed the foundation of a new college named in Franklin's honor. Franklin donated £200 towards the development of Franklin College (now called Franklin & Marshall College).\n\nBetween 1771 and 1788, he finished his autobiography. While it was at first addressed to his son, it was later completed for the benefit of mankind at the request of a friend.\n\nFranklin strongly supported the right to freedom of speech:\n\nSpecial balloting conducted October 18, 1785, unanimously elected Franklin the sixth president of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, replacing John Dickinson. The office was practically that of governor. Franklin held that office for slightly over three years, longer than any other, and served the constitutional limit of three full terms. Shortly after his initial election he was reelected to a full term on October 29, 1785, and again in the fall of 1786 and on October 31, 1787. In that capacity he served as host to the Constitutional Convention of 1787 in Philadelphia.\n\nLike the other advocates of republicanism, Franklin emphasized that the new republic could survive only if the people were virtuous. All his life he explored the role of civic and personal virtue, as expressed in \"Poor Richard's\" aphorisms. Franklin felt that organized religion was necessary to keep men good to their fellow men, but rarely attended religious services himself. When Franklin met Voltaire in Paris and asked his fellow member of the Enlightenment vanguard to bless his grandson, Voltaire said in English, \"God and Liberty\", and added, \"this is the only appropriate benediction for the grandson of Monsieur Franklin.\"\n\nFranklin's parents were both pious Puritans. The family attended the Old South Church, the most liberal Puritan congregation in Boston, where Benjamin Franklin was baptized in 1706. Franklin's father, a poor chandler, owned a copy of a book, \"Bonifacius: Essays to Do Good\", by the Puritan preacher and family friend Cotton Mather, which Franklin often cited as a key influence on his life. Franklin's first pen name, Silence Dogood, paid homage both to the book and to a widely known sermon by Mather. The book preached the importance of forming voluntary associations to benefit society. Franklin learned about forming do-good associations from Cotton Mather, but his organizational skills made him the most influential force in making voluntarism an enduring part of the American ethos.\n\nFranklin formulated a presentation of his beliefs and published it in 1728. It did not mention many of the Puritan ideas regarding salvation, the divinity of Jesus, or indeed much religious dogma. He clarified himself as a deist in his 1771 autobiography, although still considered himself a Christian. He retained a strong faith in a God as the wellspring of morality and goodness in man, and as a Providential actor in history responsible for American independence.\nIt was Ben Franklin who, at a critical impasse during the Constitutional Convention in June 1787, attempted to introduce the practice of daily common prayer with these words:\n\n... In the beginning of the contest with G. Britain, when we were sensible of danger we had daily prayer in this room for the Divine Protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a Superintending providence in our favor. ... And have we now forgotten that powerful friend? or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance. I have lived, Sir, a long time and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth—that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings that \"except the Lord build they labor in vain that build it.\" I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders of Babel: ... I therefore beg leave to move—that henceforth prayers imploring the assistance of Heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held in this Assembly every morning before we proceed to business, and that one or more of the Clergy of this City be requested to officiate in that service.\nThe motion met with resistance and was never brought to a vote.\n\nFranklin was an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical minister George Whitefield during the First Great Awakening. Franklin did not subscribe to Whitefield's theology, but he admired Whitefield for exhorting people to worship God through good works. Franklin published all of Whitefield's sermons and journals, thereby earning a lot of money and boosting the Great Awakening.\n\nWhen he stopped attending church, Franklin wrote in his autobiography:\n... Sunday being my studying day, I never was without some religious principles. I never doubted, for instance, the existence of the Deity; that He made the world, and governed it by His providence; that the most acceptable service of God was the doing good to man; that our souls are immortal; and that all crime will be punished, and virtue rewarded, either here or hereafter.\nFranklin retained a lifelong commitment to the Puritan virtues and political values he had grown up with, and through his civic work and publishing, he succeeded in passing these values into the American culture permanently. He had a \"passion for virtue\". These Puritan values included his devotion to egalitarianism, education, industry, thrift, honesty, temperance, charity and community spirit.\n\nThe classical authors read in the Enlightenment period taught an abstract ideal of republican government based on hierarchical social orders of king, aristocracy and commoners. It was widely believed that English liberties relied on their balance of power, but also hierarchal deference to the privileged class. \"Puritanism ... and the epidemic evangelism of the mid-eighteenth century, had created challenges to the traditional notions of social stratification\" by preaching that the Bible taught all men are equal, that the true value of a man lies in his moral behavior, not his class, and that all men can be saved. Franklin, steeped in Puritanism and an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical movement, rejected the salvation dogma, but embraced the radical notion of egalitarian democracy.\n\nFranklin's commitment to teach these values was itself something he gained from his Puritan upbringing, with its stress on \"inculcating virtue and character in themselves and their communities.\" These Puritan values and the desire to pass them on, were one of Franklin's quintessentially American characteristics, and helped shape the character of the nation. Franklin's writings on virtue were derided by some European authors, such as Jackob Fugger in his critical work \"Portrait of American Culture\". Max Weber considered Franklin's ethical writings a culmination of the Protestant ethic, which ethic created the social conditions necessary for the birth of capitalism.\n\nOne of Franklin's notable characteristics was his respect, tolerance and promotion of all churches. Referring to his experience in Philadelphia, he wrote in his autobiography, \"new Places of worship were continually wanted, and generally erected by voluntary Contribution, my Mite for such purpose, whatever might be the Sect, was never refused.\" \"He helped create a new type of nation that would draw strength from its religious pluralism.\" The evangelical revivalists who were active mid-century, such as Franklin's friend and preacher, George Whitefield, were the greatest advocates of religious freedom, \"claiming liberty of conscience to be an 'inalienable right of every rational creature.'\" Whitefield's supporters in Philadelphia, including Franklin, erected \"a large, new hall, that ... could provide a pulpit to anyone of any belief.\" Franklin's rejection of dogma and doctrine and his stress on the God of ethics and morality and civic virtue made him the \"prophet of tolerance.\" Franklin composed \"A Parable Against Persecution\", an apocryphal 51st chapter of Genesis in which God teaches Abraham the duty of tolerance. While he was living in London in 1774, he was present at the birth of British Unitarianism, attending the inaugural session of the Essex Street Chapel, at which Theophilus Lindsey drew together the first avowedly Unitarian congregation in England; this was somewhat politically risky, and pushed religious tolerance to new boundaries, as a denial of the doctrine of the Trinity was illegal until the 1813 Act.\n\nAlthough Franklin's parents had intended for him to have a career in the Church, Franklin as a young man adopted the Enlightenment religious belief in deism, that God's truths can be found entirely through nature and reason. \"I soon became a thorough Deist.\" As a young man he rejected Christian dogma in a 1725 pamphlet \"A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure and Pain\", which he later saw as an embarrassment, while simultaneously asserting that God is \"all wise, all good, all powerful.\" He defended his rejection of religious dogma with these words: \"I think opinions should be judged by their influences and effects; and if a man holds none that tend to make him less virtuous or more vicious, it may be concluded that he holds none that are dangerous, which I hope is the case with me.\" After the disillusioning experience of seeing the decay in his own moral standards, and those of two friends in London whom he had converted to Deism, Franklin turned back to a belief in the importance of organized religion, on the pragmatic grounds that without God and organized churches, man will not be good. Moreover, because of his proposal that prayers be said in the Constitutional Convention of 1787, many have contended that in his later life Franklin became a pious Christian.\n\nAccording to David Morgan, Franklin was a proponent of religion in general. He prayed to \"Powerful Goodness\" and referred to God as \"the infinite\". John Adams noted that Franklin was a mirror in which people saw their own religion: \"The Catholics thought him almost a Catholic. The Church of England claimed him as one of them. The Presbyterians thought him half a Presbyterian, and the Friends believed him a wet Quaker.\" Whatever else Franklin was, concludes Morgan, \"he was a true champion of generic religion.\" In a letter to Richard Price, Franklin stated that he believed that religion should support itself without help from the government, claiming, \"When a Religion is good, I conceive that it will support itself; and, when it cannot support itself, and God does not take care to support, so that its Professors are oblig'd to call for the help of the Civil Power, it is a sign, I apprehend, of its being a bad one.\"\n\nIn 1790, just about a month before he died, Franklin wrote a letter to Ezra Stiles, president of Yale University, who had asked him his views on religion:\n\nOn July 4, 1776, Congress appointed a three-member committee composed of Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and John Adams to design the Great Seal of the United States. Franklin's proposal (which was not adopted) featured the motto: \"Rebellion to Tyrants is Obedience to God\" and a scene from the Book of Exodus, with Moses, the Israelites, the pillar of fire, and George III depicted as pharaoh. The design that was produced was never acted upon by Congress, and the Great Seal's design was not finalized until a third committee was appointed in 1782.\n\nFranklin sought to cultivate his character by a plan of 13 virtues, which he developed at age 20 (in 1726) and continued to practice in some form for the rest of his life. His autobiography lists his 13 virtues as:\n\n\nFranklin did not try to work on them all at once. Instead, he would work on one and only one each week \"leaving all others to their ordinary chance.\" While Franklin did not live completely by his virtues, and by his own admission he fell short of them many times, he believed the attempt made him a better man contributing greatly to his success and happiness, which is why in his autobiography, he devoted more pages to this plan than to any other single point; in his autobiography Franklin wrote, \"I hope, therefore, that some of my descendants may follow the example and reap the benefit.\"\n\nFranklin owned as many as seven slaves, two males who worked in his household and his shop. Franklin posted paid ads for the sale of slaves and for the capture of runaway slaves and allowed the sale of slaves in his general store. Franklin profited from both the international and domestic slave trade, even criticizing slaves who had run off to join the British Army during the colonial wars of the 1740s and 1750s. Franklin, however, later became a \"cautious abolitionist\" and became an outspoken critic of landed gentry slavery. In 1758, Franklin advocated the opening of a school for the education of black slaves in Philadelphia. Franklin took two slaves to England with him, Peter and King, and King left his service there in 1756: by 1758 he was working for \"a lady in Suffolk\". Whether Franklin could have compelled King's return is open to doubt in the light of earlier English Common Law decisions and the subsequent case of Shanley v Harvey, but in fact he did not do so.\n\nAfter returning from England in 1762, Franklin became more anti-slavery. By 1770, Franklin had freed his slaves and attacked the system of slavery and the international slave trade. Franklin, however, refused to publicly debate the issue of slavery at the 1787 Constitutional Convention. Franklin tended to take both sides of the issue of slavery, never fully divesting himself from the institution.\n\nIn his later years, as Congress was forced to deal with the issue of slavery, Franklin wrote several essays that stressed the importance of the abolition of slavery and of the integration of blacks into American society. These writings included:\n\n\nIn 1790, Quakers from New York and Pennsylvania presented their petition for abolition to Congress. Their argument against slavery was backed by the Pennsylvania Abolitionist Society and its president, Benjamin Franklin.\n\nFranklin suffered from obesity throughout his middle-aged and later years, which resulted in multiple health problems, particularly gout, which worsened as he aged. In poor health during the signing of the US Constitution in 1787, he was rarely seen in public from then until his death.\n\nBenjamin Franklin died from pleuritic attack at his home in Philadelphia on April 17, 1790, at age 84. His death is described in the book \"The Life of Benjamin Franklin\", quoting from the account of Dr. John Jones:\n\n... when the pain and difficulty of breathing entirely left him, and his family were flattering themselves with the hopes of his recovery, when an imposthume, which had formed itself in his lungs, suddenly burst, and discharged a quantity of matter, which he continued to throw up while he had power; but, as that failed, the organs of respiration became gradually oppressed; a calm, lethargic state succeeded; and on the 17th instant (April 1790), about eleven o'clock at night, he quietly expired, closing a long and useful life of eighty-four years and three months.\nApproximately 20,000 people attended his funeral. He was interred in Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia. In 1728, aged 22, Franklin wrote what he hoped would be his own epitaph:\n\nThe Body of B. Franklin Printer; Like the Cover of an old Book, Its Contents torn out, And stript of its Lettering and Gilding, Lies here, Food for Worms. But the Work shall not be wholly lost: For it will, as he believ'd, appear once more, In a new & more perfect Edition, Corrected and Amended By the Author.\n\nFranklin's actual grave, however, as he specified in his final will, simply reads \"Benjamin and Deborah Franklin\".\n\nA signer of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, Franklin is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. His pervasive influence in the early history of the nation has led to his being jocularly called \"the only President of the United States who was never President of the United States.\" Franklin's likeness is ubiquitous. Since 1928, it has adorned American $100 bills, which are sometimes referred to in slang as \"Benjamins\" or \"Franklins.\" From 1948 to 1963, Franklin's portrait was on the half dollar. He has appeared on a $50 bill and on several varieties of the $100 bill from 1914 and 1918. Franklin appears on the $1,000 Series EE Savings bond. Philadelphia's Benjamin Franklin Parkway (a major thoroughfare) and Benjamin Franklin Bridge (the first major bridge to connect Philadelphia with New Jersey) are named in his honor.\n\nIn 1976, as part of a bicentennial celebration, Congress dedicated a marble statue in Philadelphia's Franklin Institute as the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial. Many of Franklin's personal possessions are also on display at the Institute, one of the few national memorials located on private property.\n\nIn London, his house at 36 Craven Street, which is the only surviving former residence of Benjamin Franklin, was first marked with a blue plaque and has since been opened to the public as the Benjamin Franklin House. In 1998, workmen restoring the building dug up the remains of six children and four adults hidden below the home. \"The Times\" reported on February 11, 1998:\n\nInitial estimates are that the bones are about 200 years old and were buried at the time Franklin was living in the house, which was his home from 1757 to 1762 and from 1764 to 1775. Most of the bones show signs of having been dissected, sawn or cut. One skull has been drilled with several holes. Paul Knapman, the Westminster Coroner, said yesterday: \"I cannot totally discount the possibility of a crime. There is still a possibility that I may have to hold an inquest.\n\nThe Friends of Benjamin Franklin House (the organization responsible for the restoration) note that the bones were likely placed there by William Hewson, who lived in the house for two years and who had built a small anatomy school at the back of the house. They note that while Franklin likely knew what Hewson was doing, he probably did not participate in any dissections because he was much more of a physicist than a medical man.\n\nFranklin bequeathed £1,000 (about $4,400 at the time, or about $112,000 in 2011 dollars) each to the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, in trust to gather interest for 200 years. The trust began in 1785 when the French mathematician Charles-Joseph Mathon de la Cour, who admired Franklin greatly, wrote a friendly parody of Franklin's \"Poor Richard's Almanack\" called \"Fortunate Richard\". The main character leaves a smallish amount of money in his will, five lots of 100 \"livres\", to collect interest over one, two, three, four or five full centuries, with the resulting astronomical sums to be spent on impossibly elaborate utopian projects. Franklin, who was 79 years old at the time, wrote thanking him for a great idea and telling him that he had decided to leave a bequest of 1,000 pounds each to his native Boston and his adopted Philadelphia. By 1990, more than $2,000,000 had accumulated in Franklin's Philadelphia trust, which had loaned the money to local residents. From 1940 to 1990, the money was used mostly for mortgage loans. When the trust came due, Philadelphia decided to spend it on scholarships for local high school students. Franklin's Boston trust fund accumulated almost $5,000,000 during that same time; at the end of its first 100 years a portion was allocated to help establish a trade school that became the Franklin Institute of Boston, and the whole fund was later dedicated to supporting this institute.\n\nBenjamin Franklin is a prominent figure in American history comparable to Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln, and as such he has been honored on U.S. postage stamps many times. The image of Franklin, the first Postmaster General of the United States, occurs on the face of U.S. postage more than any other notable American save that of George Washington.\n\nFranklin appeared on the first U.S. postage stamp (displayed above) issued in 1847. From 1908 through 1923 the U.S. Post Office issued a series of postage stamps commonly referred to as the Washington-Franklin Issues where, along with George Washington, Franklin was depicted many times over a 14-year period, the longest run of any one series in U.S. postal history. Along with the regular issue stamps Franklin however only appears on a few . Some of the finest portrayals of Franklin on record can be found on the engravings inscribed on the face of U.S. postage.\n\n\"Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress\" is a letter written by Benjamin Franklin, dated June 25, 1745, in which Franklin gives advice to a young man about channeling sexual urges. Due to its licentious nature, the letter was not published in collections of Franklin's papers during the nineteenth century. Federal court decisions from the mid-to-late twentieth century cited the document as a reason for overturning obscenity laws, using it to make a case against censorship.\n\n\"The Princess and the Patriot: Ekaterina Dashkova, Benjamin Franklin and the Age of Enlightenment\" exhibition opened in Philadelphia in February 2006 and ran through December 2006. Benjamin Franklin and Dashkova met only once, in Paris in 1781. Franklin was 75, and Dashkova was 37. Franklin invited Dashkova to become the first woman to join the American Philosophical Society; she was the only woman so honored for another 80 years. Later, Dashkova reciprocated by making him the first American member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nAs a founding father of the United States, Franklin's name has been attached to many things. Among these are:\n\nBiographies\n\nFor young readers\n\nScholarly studies\n\nHistoriography\n\nPrimary sources\n\n\nBiographical and guides\n\nOnline writings\n\nAutobiography\n\nIn the arts\n"}
{"id": "1611264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1611264", "title": "Blair Lee I", "text": "Blair Lee I\n\nFrancis Preston Blair Lee (August 9, 1857December 25, 1944) was a Democratic member of the United States Senate, representing the State of Maryland from 1914 to 1917. He was also the great-grandson of American patriot Richard Henry Lee, and grandfather of former Maryland Governor Blair Lee III. Lee was named after his maternal grandfather, Francis Preston Blair.\n\nLee was born in Silver Spring, Maryland and attended the common schools in the area. He was the son of Samuel Phillips Lee and his wife, the former Elizabeth Blair. He graduated from Princeton University in 1880 and from the law department of Columbian (now George Washington) University in 1882. He was admitted to the bar of the District of Columbia and of Montgomery County, Maryland in 1883 and commenced practice in Maryland.\n\nLee was an unsuccessful candidate for election to the Fifty-fifth Congress in 1896. He was, however, elected to the Maryland State Senate, and served from 1905 to 1913. In 1911, Lee ran for the position of Governor of Maryland, but lost the Democratic nomination to Arthur Pue Gorman, Jr. (who lost to Republican candidate Phillips Lee Goldsborough). In 1915, he again ran for Governor and was defeated in the Democratic Primary by eventual winner Emerson Harrington.\n\nFollowing his defeat in the gubernatorial election, Lee was elected to the United States Senate in a special election on November 4, 1913, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of senator Isidor Rayner. Because the Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution had recently gone into effect, Lee became the first U.S. Senator directly elected by the people of a state under the Constitution's provisions (although other states had previously elected senators indirectly through popular elections, which were then ratified by the state legislature). He presented his credentials to serve as senator on December 5, 1913, but he did not qualify until January 28, 1914 because the incumbent in his seat, Republican William P. Jackson, claimed that \"since he had been appointed under the original constitutional provision, he was entitled to hold his seat until the regularly scheduled adjournment date of the Maryland state assembly.\"\n\nThe Senate considered Jackson's challenge but eventually rejected it and seated Lee. While senator, Lee was chairman of the Committee on Expenditures in the Post Office Department, and a member of the Committee on Coast Defenses (Sixty-third and Sixty-fourth Congresses). He was unsuccessful in his bid for re-election in 1916, losing the Democratic nomination to David John Lewis (who went on to lose to Joseph I. France).\n\nLee resumed the practice of law after he left the Senate. He died in Norwood, Maryland and is buried in Rock Creek Cemetery in Washington, D.C.\n"}
{"id": "1635158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1635158", "title": "Cambridge Business Park", "text": "Cambridge Business Park\n\nCambridge Business Park is a large business complex in Cambridge, England. It is home to many companies, mostly IT-related, such as Qualcomm, Autonomy, MathWorks and Red Gate Software, but also intellectual property firms such as Mewburn Ellis, Venner Shipley and Mathys and Squire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15550610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15550610", "title": "Capitalist state", "text": "Capitalist state\n\nThe capitalist state is the state, its functions, and the form of organization it takes within capitalist socioeconomic systems. This concept is often used interchangeably with the concept of the \"modern state\"; however there are many differences in sociological characteristics among capitalist states, despite their common functions.\n\nThe primary functions of the capitalist state are to provide a legal framework and infrastructural framework that is conducive to business enterprise and the accumulation of capital. Different normative theories exist on the necessary and appropriate function of the state in a capitalist economy, with proponents of laissez-faire favoring a state limited to the provision of public goods and safeguarding private property rights, while proponents of interventionism stress the importance of regulation, intervention and economic stabilization in providing the framework for the accumulation of capital and business.\n\nFor Karl Marx the capitalist state is understood to be a reflection of the economic base, with its chief function reflecting the needs of the capitalist economy. This involves creating the legal and infrastructural framework - the superstructure - that facilitates capitalism, as well as balancing the needs of the various classes to ensure the perpetuation of capitalism. This often involves attempts to safeguard state policy from being used to benefit specific capitalists or firms at the expense of the bourgeoisie as a whole. Karl Marx hence described the function of the executive of a capitalist state as \"nothing but a committee for managing the common affairs of the whole bourgeoisie\". Specifically, in Marx's view, the capitalist state necessarily exists to serve the interests of capitalists (referred to as \"the bourgeoisie\"), not as a defect but as a necessary feature of capitalism. Thus thinkers in the Marxist tradition often refer to the capitalist state as the \"Dictatorship of the bourgeoisie\". Thinkers in the Instrumental Marxist tradition stress the role of policymakers and political elites sharing a common business or class background, leading to their decisions reflecting their class interest. This is differentiated from more contemporary notions of state capture by specific business interests for the benefit of those specific businesses and not the ruling class or capitalist system as a whole, which is variously referred to as crony capitalism or \"Corporatocracy\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24313782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24313782", "title": "Center City, Allentown, Pennsylvania", "text": "Center City, Allentown, Pennsylvania\n\nCenter City is the downtown and Central Business District of Allentown, Pennsylvania, in the United States. It has a dense population and is currently undergoing an urban revitalizaton process.\n\nAllentown's Center City is centered at Hamilton Street and Seventh Street, and bounded by Little Lehigh Creek in the east, Martin Luther King Jr. Drive to the south, the city line with Whitehall to the north, and 15th Street to the west.\n\nCenter City's population based on a 2007 estimate was 53,548. The area of Center City is defined as 6.271 sq. mi., making the population density 8539/sq. mi.\n\nCenter City's tallest building is the PPL Building at 322 ft (98 m). The Allentown Art Museum, Allentown Symphony Hall, the former site of Hess's Department Stores' original and flagship store, Baum School of Art, Lehigh County Historical Society and Heritage Museum, and The Liberty Bell Museum are all known landmarks in Center City. A hockey arena was opened in August, 2014 near the PPL building, after emerging from a brief stall after a tax of Allentown workers was repealed, although construction is much slower.\n\nWithin Center City, Allentown, there are additional neighborhoods. 7th Street, Downtown, Old Allentown, Old Fairgrounds District, and NOTI (North of Tilghman Street) are all located within Center City.\n\nCenter City is home to the corporate headquarters of PPL and the local offices of \"The Morning Call\".\nCenter City Allentown's public schools are part of the Allentown School District. They include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34678778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34678778", "title": "Charles John Wright Barton", "text": "Charles John Wright Barton\n\nCharles John Wright Barton (6 February 1852–4 March 1935) was a New Zealand farmer, businessman, mayor and town clerk. He was born in Daventry, Northamptonshire, England on 6 February 1852.\n"}
{"id": "962744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962744", "title": "Christopher G. Kennedy", "text": "Christopher G. Kennedy\n\nChristopher George \"Chris\" Kennedy (born July 4, 1963) is an American businessman, politician, and Chair of Joseph P. Kennedy Enterprises, Inc. He is a son of former U.S. Senator Robert F. Kennedy, a member of the Kennedy family. Kennedy served as Chair of the Board of Trustees for the University of Illinois from 2009 to 2015. Until April 2012, he was also president of Merchandise Mart Properties, a commercial property management firm based in Chicago.\n\nHe was a candidate in the Democratic Party primary for Governor of Illinois in the 2018 election.\n\nKennedy was born on July 4, 1963, in Boston, Massachusetts, to Robert Francis Kennedy Sr. and Ethel (\"née\" Skakel) Kennedy, the eighth of their eleven children. He is one of four grandchildren of Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. and Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy born during the administration of his uncle U.S. President John F. Kennedy. His siblings are:\nHe grew up at his family home, Hickory Hill, in McLean, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C., and attended the Our Lady of Victory Catholic School in McLean through the eighth grade. He transferred to Georgetown Preparatory School in North Bethesda, Maryland, also a suburb of Washington, and graduated in 1982. While in high school, he volunteered at a home for runaway youth.\n\nKennedy graduated from Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, with a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science in 1986.\n\nIn 1994, he graduated with a master of business administration degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.\n\nKennedy is chairman of the Kennedy family investment firm Joseph P. Kennedy Enterprises, Inc. He is treasurer of the Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation, he was on the Executive Committee for the Chicago Community Trust, and he has been a board member of the Catholic Theological Union, Interface, Inc. and Knoll Inc. He is a member of the mutual fund board of trustees for Ariel Investments.\n\nKennedy moved from Boston to Decatur to work for Archer Daniels Midland in the 1980s, and has spent his life working around issues of hunger, whether as the chairman of the Greater Chicago Food Depository, or now helping to run the non-profit he and his wife founded, Top Box Foods.\n\nKennedy was the president of Merchandise Mart Properties in Chicago, Illinois, from 2000 until 2012. The property was originally owned by the Kennedy family until it was sold to Vornado Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust. The Merchandise Mart, one of the properties of Merchandise Mart Properties, is the largest commercial building in the world, serving as both a luxury wholesale design center and one of the leading international business locations in Chicago. The Mart spans two city blocks and rises twenty-five stories for a total of 4.2 million square feet (390,000 square metres) Three million people come through the Mart each year to visit its retail shops, permanent showrooms, and office space as well as attend the numerous trade, consumer and community events hosted there.\n\nKennedy also served as Chairman of the board at the University of Illinois.\n\nIn May 2012, Kennedy started the Chicago-based non-profit Top Box Foods. The organization was created as a way to get discounted groceries to families who live in areas that either lack grocery stores or have an abundance of fast food. Kennedy initially invested $150,000 to get Top Box started, and subsequently designed the organization to be self-sustaining.\n\nTop Box as an organization purchases food, boxes it in various combinations and delivers it monthly to churches and organizations in mostly low-income neighborhoods. The food items in the box change from month to month and include a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, meats, and frozen meals, with box prices ranging from $19 to $39. The boxes can be ordered online or through the organizations where the boxes are delivered. These organizations, otherwise known as Top Box \"host sites,\" range from small neighborhood churches with a few dozen families to some of the Chicago's largest, including Trinity United Church of Christ and Salem Baptist Church.\n\nKennedy met Sheila Sinclair-Berner (born December 4, 1962), an Illinois native, while attending Boston College. After graduating from college in 1986, Kennedy moved to Decatur, Illinois, and married in 1987. The couple had four children, Katherine Frances Kennedy (1990-), Christopher George Kennedy, Jr. (1992-), Sara Ethel Kennedy (1994-), and Clare Anne Kennedy (1998-), whom they are raising in the Chicago suburb of Kenilworth. His wife earned a law degree from Northwestern University and practiced at Sidley & Austin in Chicago before taking time off to take care of their children.\n\nKennedy's political activism began at an early age, and in 1979 and 1980 he worked on his uncle U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy's bid for the 1980 Democratic Party's nomination for U.S. President. He was also treasurer of the campaign committee for his brother Joe's reelection to the U.S. House in 1988. Over the years he has organized numerous fundraising events in Chicago for his uncle Ted, his sister Kathleen, his brother Joe and his cousin Mark Shriver.\n\nThe \"National Journal\" once quoted Kennedy as saying, \"I have a lot to keep up with: a brother who might run for Congress, a sister and a brother considering races for governor, a cousin who might run for Congress, another in Congress, an uncle in the Senate and a cousin-in-law, Arnold \"[Schwarzennegger]\", who is thinking of running for governor.\"\n\nBeyond his family, Kennedy has served in a variety of capacities for numerous political campaigns, including hosting a fundraiser for Barack Obama in his bid for U.S. Senate.\n\nIn August 2009, after considering a run for the U.S. Senate, as did many others, Kennedy decided not to run. Also in August 2009, on the day after his uncle Ted's death on August 25, 2009, Kennedy was appointed to the University of Illinois board of trustees by Democratic Illinois Governor Pat Quinn. On September 10, 2009, Kennedy was elected by the trustees as their chairman.\n\nPrior to February 8, 2017, when Kennedy announced his candidacy for the Democratic Nomination for Illinois Governor in 2018, he had never ran for any elective office.\n\nKennedy during his campaign for governor advocated for \"a property tax system that can't be abused by the wealthy and insiders\" in a fundraising email. Kennedy criticized one of his fellow Democratic gubernatorial candidates, J.B. Pritzker, for getting a large property tax reduction on a Gold Coast mansion. \"It's an inherently corruptible system and we ought to reject it,\" Kennedy said to reporters in reference to Pritzker's property taxes. \"The Cook County property tax appeals business is notorious for pricing political connections at a premium,\" wrote the Illinois Policy Institute, a conservative website. Kennedy has further gone on to state that what Mike Madigan is doing, referring to his conflict of interest from serving as the house speaker while working as a property tax attorney, should be illegal.\n\nIn June 2017, Kennedy was endorsed by Congressman Bobby Rush.\n\nKennedy called for an open primary in the 2018 gubernatorial race, urging the Cook County Democratic party not to throw their weight behind any other candidate, instead allowing for voters to vet all the candidates in the race.\n\nOn March 20, 2018, Kennedy lost the Democratic primary, finishing in third place behind Pritzer and state senator Daniel Biss. He carried only two counties, Ford and Hardin.\n\nHe is on the board of trustees of the mutual funds managed by Ariel Investments, a Chicago-based investment-management firm.\n\nFrom 1997 to 1999, Kennedy served as chairman of the Chicago Convention and Tourism Bureau, a sales-and-marketing organization promoting Chicago to the tourism and convention industries. Under Kennedy's chairmanship, the bureau retained and expanded Chicago's event-and-convention industry.\n\nSince 2000, Kennedy has been a member of the City Club of Chicago, a group that brings together civic and cultural leaders to discuss and debate issues affecting the Chicago area.\n\nSince 2005, he has been a member of the Commercial Club of Chicago, a group that brings together the city's business, educational, and cultural leaders on projects to improve central industries and create new economic opportunities.\n\n\nAs Chairman of Joseph P. Kennedy Enterprises, Inc., Kennedy is responsible for the development of the Kennedy family real estate holdings in Chicago known as Wolf Point, Chicago. The Wolf Point development site represents a billion-dollar commitment to the downtown core, and the site is zoned for construction of a residential apartment building, a self-park garage, and two additional high-rise buildings.\n\nKennedy also is a partner in Sudbury Station LLC, a development entity proposing a 250-unit luxury rental housing development with a state mandated minimum affordable housing set aside in Sudbury, Massachusetts, designed to meet local housing needs for seniors and the working class community. Proposed on a 39-acre parcel zoned residential near the Historic District of Sudbury, the Village at Sudbury Station would satisfy the for Sudbury, would be located close to schools, parks, churches and public safety facilities, and would contribute significant additional tax revenue to the town. The project has received criticism from town officials and residents. Residents voted unamiously to hire a special counsel to stop the development, which they allege violates over thirty local zoning ordinances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10617466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10617466", "title": "Condolences", "text": "Condolences\n\nCondolences (from Latin \"con\" (with) + \"dolere\" (sorrow)) are an expression of sympathy to someone who is experiencing pain arising from death, deep mental anguish, or misfortune.\n\nThe use of the word \"condolences\", in plural, is more common than \"condolence\". The reason for this habit is unclear, but it resembles our habit to send someone our 'regards', 'best wishes', greetings' (all plural), etc.\n\nWhen individuals condole, or offer their condolences to a particular situation or person, they are offering active, conscious support of that person or activity. This is often expressed by saying, \"Sorry\". Often, the English language expression \"My condolences\" will be in a context, such as death of a friend's loved one, in which the one offering condolences is communicating a feeling of pity towards the unfortunate party. Expressions of condolence may also be used as sarcasm if one considers the complaining person to be exaggerating their suffering, especially when they appear to consider as tragic something that is relatively insignificant.\n\nCondolence is not always expressed in sorrow or grievance, as it can also be used to acknowledge a fellow feeling or even a common opinion.\n\nThere are various ways of expressing condolences to the victims. Examples include donating money to the charity nominated by the person who has just died, writing in a condolences book or supporting the friends and family of the loved one by making meals and looking after them in various ways in times of need.\n\n"}
{"id": "962706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962706", "title": "Courtney Kennedy Hill", "text": "Courtney Kennedy Hill\n\nMary Courtney Kennedy-Hill (known as Courtney, born September 9, 1956 in Boston, Massachusetts) is the fifth of the eleven children of Robert Francis Kennedy and Ethel Skakel.\n\nThrough her job at the Children's Television Workshop, she met ABC sports producer Jeffrey Robert Ruhe (born 1952), son of Robert Ruhe and Elva Buckingham. The couple married on June 14, 1980, in Washington, D.C. and were divorced in 1990.\n\nShe married Paul Michael Hill (born August 13, 1954) on June 26, 1993, on a boat in the Aegean Sea. Hill is an Irishman who was wrongly imprisoned for 15 years after being convicted of several bombings carried out by the IRA. However, he was later found to have been convicted unjustly; no evidence linked him to either the bombings or to involvement with the IRA. Further investigation revealed that the confessions of himself and three others (collectively called \"The Guildford Four\") were coerced after many days in detention without charge, and the purported notes from the interrogations were fabricated by the police some time later, so that the notes would reflect the case the police had decided to build. (The film \"In the Name of the Father\" (1993) was based on this case.)\n\nKennedy and Hill were reportedly introduced by her mother. The couple have one daughter, Saoirse Roisin Hill (born May 22, 1997 in Washington D.C.). The couple lived in Ireland from 2002 to 2006. In February 2006, they legally separated.\n\nCourtney Hill was formerly a representative for the United Nations AIDS Foundation.\n\nHill lives in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "5249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5249", "title": "Crony capitalism", "text": "Crony capitalism\n\nCrony capitalism is an economy in which businesses thrive not as a result of risk, but rather as a return on money amassed through a nexus between a business class and the political class. This is done using state power to crush genuine competition in handing out permits, government grants, special tax breaks, or other forms of state intervention over resources where the state exercises monopolist control over public goods, for example, mining concessions for primary commodities or contracts for public works. Money is then made not merely by making a profit in the market, but through profiteering by \"rent seeking\" using this monopoly or oligopoly. Entrepreneurship and innovative practices, which seek to reward risk are stifled, since the value-added is little by crony businesses as hardly anything of significant value is created by them, with transactions taking the form of \"trading\". Crony capitalism spills over into the government, the politics and the media, when this nexus distorts the economy and affects society to an extent it corrupts public-serving economic, political and social ideals.\n\nThe term \"crony capitalism\" made a significant impact in the public as an explanation of the Asian financial crisis. It is also used to describe governmental decisions favoring \"cronies\" of governmental officials. In this context, the term is often used comparatively with corporate welfare, a technical term often used to assess government bailouts and favoritistic monetary policy, as opposed to the economic theory, described by \"crony capitalism\". The extent of difference between these terms is whether a government action can be said to benefit the individuals rather than the industry.\n\nCrony capitalism exists along a continuum. In its lightest form, crony capitalism consists of collusion among market players which is officially tolerated or encouraged by the government. While perhaps lightly competing against each other, they will present a unified front (sometimes called a trade association or industry trade group) to the government in requesting subsidies or aid or regulation. Newcomers to a market then need to surmount significant \"barriers to entry\" for instance, in seeking loans, acquire shelf space, or receive official sanction. Some such systems are very formalized, such as sports leagues and the Medallion System of the taxicabs of New York City, but often the process is more subtle, such as expanding training and certification exams to make it more expensive for new entrants to enter a market and thereby limit competition. In technological fields, there may evolve a system whereby new entrants may be accused of infringing on patents that the established competitors never assert against each other. In spite of this, some competitors may succeed when the legal barriers are light. \n\nThe term crony capitalism is generally used when these practices come to dominate the economy as a whole or to dominate the most valuable industries in an economy. Intentionally ambiguous laws and regulations are common in such systems. Taken strictly, such laws would greatly impede practically all business; in practice, they are only erratically enforced. The specter of having such laws suddenly brought down upon a business provides incentive to stay in the good graces of political officials. Troublesome rivals who have overstepped their bounds can have the laws suddenly enforced against them, leading to fines or even jail time. Even in high-income democracies with well-established legal systems and freedom of the press in place, a larger state is associated with more political corruption.\n\nThe term \"crony capitalism\" was initially applied to states involved in the 1997 Asian financial crisis such as Thailand and Indonesia. In these cases, the term was used to point out how family members of the ruling leaders become extremely wealthy with no non-political justification. Southeast Asian nations still score very poorly in rankings measuring this. Hong Kong, and Malaysia are perhaps most noted for this, and the term has also been applied to the system of oligarchs in Russia.\nOther states to which the term has been applied include India, in particular, the system after the 1990s liberalization whereby land and other resources were given at throwaway prices in the name of public private partnerships, the more recent coal-gate scam and cheap allocation of land and resources to Adani SEZ under the Congress and BJP governments.\n\nSimilar references to crony capitalism have been made to other countries such as Argentina and Greece. Wu Jinglian, one of China's leading economists and a longtime advocate of its transition to free markets, says that it faces two starkly contrasting futures: a market economy under the rule of law or crony capitalism. A dozen years later, prominent political scientist Pei Minxin had concluded that the latter course had become deeply embedded in China.\n\nMany prosperous nations have also had varying amounts of cronyism throughout their history including the United Kingdom, especially in the 1600s and 1700s, United States, and Japan.\n\n\"The Economist\" benchmarks countries based on a \"crony-capitalism index\" calculated via how much economic activity occurs in industries prone to cronyism. Its 2014 Crony Capitalism Index ranking listed Hong Kong, Russia and Malaysia in the top 3 spots.\n\nCrony capitalism in finance was found in the Second Bank of the United States. It was a private company, but its largest stockholder was the federal government which owned 20%. It was an early bank regulator and grew to be one being the most powerful organizations in the country due largely to being the depository of the government's revenue.\n\nThe Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999 completely removed Glass-Steagall’s separation between commercial banks and investment banks. After this repeal, commercial banks, investment banks, and insurance companies combined their lobbying efforts. Critics claim this was instrumental in the passage of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005.\n\nMore direct government involvement in a specific sector can also lead to specific areas of crony capitalism, even if the economy as a whole may be competitive. This is most common in natural resource sectors through the granting of mining or drilling concessions, but it is also possible through a process known as regulatory capture where the government agencies in charge of regulating an industry come to be controlled by that industry. Governments will often, in good faith, establish government agencies to regulate an industry. However, the members of an industry have a very strong interest in the actions of that regulatory body, while the rest of the citizenry are only lightly affected. As a result, it is not uncommon for current industry players to gain control of the \"watchdog\" and to use it against competitors. This typically takes the form of making it very expensive for a new entrant to enter the market. An 1824 landmark U.S. Supreme Court ruling overturned a New York State-granted monopoly (\"a veritable model of state munificence\" facilitated by one of the Founding Fathers, Robert R. Livingston) for the then-revolutionary technology of steamboats. Leveraging the Supreme Court's establishment of Congressional supremacy over commerce, the Interstate Commerce Commission was established in 1887 with the intent of regulating railroad \"robber barons\". President Grover Cleveland appointed Thomas M. Cooley, a railroad ally, as its first chairman and a permit system was used to deny access to new entrants and legalize price fixing.\n\nThe defense industry in the United States is often described as an example of crony capitalism in an industry. Connections with the Pentagon and lobbyists in Washington are described by critics as more important than actual competition, due to the political and secretive nature of defense contracts. In the Airbus-Boeing WTO dispute, Airbus (which receives outright subsidies from European governments) has stated Boeing receives similar subsidies, which are hidden as inefficient defense contracts. Other American defense companies were put under scrutiny for no-bid contracts for Iraq War and Hurricane Katrina related contracts purportedly due to having cronies in the Bush administration.\n\nGerald P. O'Driscoll, former vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, stated that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac became examples of crony capitalism. Government backing let Fannie and Freddie dominate mortgage underwriting. \"The politicians created the mortgage giants, which then returned some of the profits to the pols—sometimes directly, as campaign funds; sometimes as \"contributions\" to favored constituents.\"\n\nIn its worst form, crony capitalism can devolve into simple corruption, where any pretense of a free market is dispensed with. Bribes to government officials are considered \"de rigueur\" and tax evasion is common; this is seen in many parts of Africa, for instance. This is sometimes called plutocracy (rule by wealth) or kleptocracy (rule by theft).\n\nCorrupt governments may favor one set of business owners who have close ties to the government over others. This may also be done with, religious, or ethnic favoritism; for instance, Alawites in Syria have a disproportionate share of power in the government and business there. (President Assad is an Alawite.) This can be explained by considering personal relationships as a social network. As government and business leaders try to accomplish various things, they naturally turn to other powerful people for support in their endeavors. These people form hubs in the network. In a developing country those hubs may be very few, thus concentrating economic and political power in a small interlocking group.\n\nNormally, this will be untenable to maintain in business; new entrants will affect the market. However, if business and government are entwined, then the government can maintain the small-hub network.\n\nRaymond Vernon, specialist in economics and international affairs,\nwrote that the Industrial Revolution began in Great Britain, because they were the first to successfully limit the power of veto groups (typically cronies of those with power in government) to block innovations. \"Unlike most other national environments, the British environment of the early 19th century contained relatively few threats to those who improved and applied existing inventions, whether from business competitors, labor, or the government itself. In other European countries, by contrast, the merchant guilds ... were a pervasive source of veto for many centuries. This power was typically bestowed upon them by government\". For example, a Russian inventor produced a steam engine in 1766 and disappeared without a trace. \"[A] steam powered horseless carriage produced in France in 1769 was officially suppressed.\" James Watt began experimenting with steam in 1763, got a patent in 1769, and began commercial production in 1775.\n\nRaghuram Rajan, former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, has said \"One of the greatest dangers to the growth of developing countries is the middle income trap, where crony capitalism creates oligarchies that slow down growth. If the debate during the elections is any pointer, this is a very real concern of the public in India today.\" Tavleen Singh, columnist for \"The Indian Express\" has disagreed. According to her, India's corporate success is not a product of crony capitalism, but because India is no longer under the influence of crony socialism.\n\nWhile the problem is generally accepted across the political spectrum, ideology shades the view of the problem's causes and therefore its solutions. Political views mostly fall into two camps which might be called the socialist and capitalist critique. The socialist position is that broadly democratic government must regulate economic, or wealthy, interests in order to restrict monopoly. The capitalist position is that \"natural monopolies\" are rare, therefore governmental regulations generally abet established wealthy interests by restricting competition.\n\nCritics of crony capitalism including socialists and anti-capitalists often assert that crony capitalism is the inevitable result of \"any\" strictly capitalist system. Jane Jacobs described it as a natural consequence of collusion between those managing power and trade, while Noam Chomsky has argued that the word \"crony\" is superfluous when describing capitalism. Since businesses make money and money leads to political power, business will inevitably use their power to influence governments. Much of the impetus behind campaign finance reform in the United States and in other countries is an attempt to prevent economic power being used to take political power.\n\nRavi Batra argues that \"all official economic measures adopted since 1981...have devastated the middle class\" and that the Occupy Wall Street movement should push for their repeal and thus end the influence of the super wealthy in the political process, which he considers a manifestation of crony capitalism.\n\nSocialist economists, such as Robin Hahnel, have criticized the term as an ideologically motivated attempt to cast what is in their view the fundamental problems of capitalism as avoidable irregularities. Socialist economists dismiss the term as an apologetic for failures of neoliberal policy and, more fundamentally, their perception of the weaknesses of market allocation.\n\nSupporters of capitalism generally oppose crony capitalism as well, and consider it an aberration brought on by governmental favors incompatible with free market. Proponents of capitalism tend to regard the term as an oxymoron, arguing that crony capitalism is not capitalism at all. In the capitalist view, \"cronyism\" is the result of an excess of interference in the market, which inherently will result in a toxic combination of corporations and government officials running the sector of the economy. Some advocates prefer to equate this problem with terms such as \"corporatocracy\" or \"corporatism, a modern form of mercantilism\" to emphasize that the only way to run a profitable business in such a system is to have help from corrupt government officials.\n\nEven if the initial regulation was well-intentioned (to curb actual abuses), and even if the initial lobbying by corporations was well-intentioned (to reduce illogical regulations), the mixture of business and government stifle competition, a collusive result called regulatory capture. Burton W. Folsom, Jr. distinguishes those that engage in crony capitalism—designated by him \"political entrepreneurs\"—from those who compete in the marketplace without special aid from government, whom he calls \"market entrepreneurs\". The market entrepreneurs, such as Hill, Vanderbilt, and Rockefeller, succeeded by producing a quality product at a competitive price. The political entrepreneurs, for example, Edward Collins in steamships and the leaders of the Union Pacific Railroad in railroads, were men who used the power of government to succeed. They tried to gain subsidies or in some way use government to stop competitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1596974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1596974", "title": "Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions", "text": "Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions\n\nDirective 98/44/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 1998 on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions \nis a European Union directive in the field of patent law, made under the internal market \nprovisions of the Treaty of Rome. It was intended to harmonise the laws of Member States regarding the patentability \nof biotechnological inventions, including plant varieties (as legally defined) and human genes.\n\nThe Directive is divided into the following five chapters:\n\nThe original proposal was adopted by the European Commission in 1988. The procedure for its adoption was slowed down by primarily ethical issues regarding the patentability of living matter. The European Parliament eventually rejected the joint text from the final Conciliation meeting at 3rd reading on 1 March 1995 so the first directive process did not yield a directive. \n\nOn 13 December 1995, the Commission adopted a new proposal was nearly identical to the rejected version, was changed again, but the Parliament put aside its ethical concerns on patenting of human genes in on 12 July 1998 in its second reading and adopted the Common Position of the Council, so in the second legislative process, the directive was adopted. The drafts person of the Parliament for this second procedure was Willi Rothley and the vote with the most yes votes was Amendment 9 from the Greens which got 221 against 294 votes out of 532 members voting\nwith 17 abstentions but 314 yes votes would have been required to reach the required an absolute majority to adopt it.\n\nOn 6 July 1998, a final version was adopted. Its code is 98/44/EC.\n\nThe Kingdom of the Netherlands brought Case C-377/98 before the European Court of Justice against the adoption of the directive with six different pleas but the Court granted none of them. \n\nNevertheless, the ECJ decision does not preclude a further test of the validity of the directive on the ground that it is inconsistent with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS). Art. 27.1 TRIPS provides that patents are only to be granted with respect to 'inventions'. The directive, however, provides that \"biological material which is isolated from its natural environment ... may be the subject of an invention even if it previously occurred in nature.\" It is clearly arguable that merely isolating a human gene or protein from its natural environment is not an activity that can come within the meaning of the word 'invention'. The Danish Council of Bioethics in its Patenting Human Genes and Stem Cells Report noted that \"In the members' view, it cannot be said with any reasonableness that a sequence or partial sequence of a gene ceases to be part of the human body merely because an identical copy of the sequence is isolated from or produced outside of the human body.\" TRIPS applies to the European Community as it is a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in its own right and accordingly must ensure \"the conformity of its laws, regulations and administrative procedures with obligations as provided\" by the WTO. \n\nOn 14 January 2002, the Commission submitted an assessment of the implications for basic genetic engineering research of failure to publish, or late publication of, papers on subjects which could be patentable as required under Article 16(b) of this directive. \n\nAccording to SmithKline Beecham lobbyist Simon Gentry, the company allocated 30 million ECU for a pro-Directive campaign. Part of this campaign was direct support of patient charities and organisations. On the day of the July 1997 vote, a number of people in wheelchairs from these groups demonstrated outside the main hall in Strasbourg, chanting the pharmaceutical industry's slogan, \"No Patents, No Cure\" in an emotional appeal to Parliamentarians to vote for the Directive.\n\nAs of 15 January 2007, all of the 27 EU member states had implemented the Directive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2837120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837120", "title": "Dirk van den Broek", "text": "Dirk van den Broek\n\nDirk van den Broek (born 27 March 1924) is a Dutch businessman, founder of the \"Samenwerkende Dirk van den Broek Bedrijven\", one of the largest family-owned businesses in the Netherlands. The company includes grocery stores, travel agencies, drug stores, liquor stores and various other ventures. Born in Amsterdam in 1924, Dirk van den Broek was the son of a farmer. Inspired by his mother who ran her own milk production and delivery operation from their farm, he and his wife Joukje started a small grocery store.\n\nDirk van den Broek was made Officer in the Order of Orange Nassau in 1990 by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands.\n\nDirk van den Broek is married and has five children.\n"}
{"id": "1628365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628365", "title": "Electronic services delivery", "text": "Electronic services delivery\n\nElectronic services delivery or ESD refers to providing government services through the Internet or other electronic means. It is related to e-services and e-government.\n\nE-service (or eservice) is a highly generic term usually referring to ‘The provision of services via the Internet (the prefix 'e' standing for ‘electronic’, as it does in many other usages), thus e-Service may also include e-Commerce, although it may also include non-commercial services (online), which is usually provided by the government.’ (Alexei Pavlichev & G. David Garson, 2004: 169-170; Muhammad Rais & Nazariah, 2003: 59, 70-71).\n\n‘An umbrella term for services available on the Internet, e-Service include e-Commerce transaction services for handling online orders, application hosting by application service providers (ASPs) and any processing capability that is obtainable on the Web.’ (Computer Desktop Encyclopedia, 2009)\n\nE-Service or 'electronic service' constitutes the online services available on the Internet, whereby a valid transaction of buying and selling (procurement) is possible, as opposed to the traditional websites, whereby only descriptive information are available, and no online transaction is made possible.' (Jeong, 2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "35761903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35761903", "title": "Essential Commodities Act", "text": "Essential Commodities Act\n\nThe Essential Commodities Act is an act of Parliament of India which was established to ensure the delivery of certain commodities or products, the supply of which if obstructed owing to hoarding or blackmarketing would affect the normal life of the people. This includes foodstuff, drugs, fuel (petroleum products) etc.\n\nThe ECA was enacted way back in 1955. It has since been used by the Government to regulate the production, supply and distribution of a whole host of commodities it declares ‘essential’ in order to make them available to consumers at fair prices.\n\nThe list of items under the Act include drugs, fertilisers, pulses and edible oils, and petroleum and petroleum products. The Centre can include new commodities as and when the need arises, and take them off the list once the situation improves.\n\nHere’s how it works. If the Centre finds that a certain commodity is in short supply and its price is spiking, it can notify stock-holding limits on it for a specified period. The States act on this notification to specify limits and take steps to ensure that these are adhered to. Anybody trading or dealing in the commodity, be it wholesalers, retailers or even importers are prevented from stockpiling it beyond a certain quantity.\n\nA State can, however, choose not to impose any restrictions. But once it does, traders have to immediately sell into the market any stocks held beyond the mandated quantity. This improves supplies and brings down prices. As not all shopkeepers and traders comply, State agencies conduct raids to get everyone to toe the line and the errant are punished. The excess stocks are auctioned or sold through fair price shops.\n\n"}
{"id": "40309554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40309554", "title": "Farah Khan (businesswoman)", "text": "Farah Khan (businesswoman)\n\nFarah Khan is a Singaporean entrepreneur, the founder of the luxury retail fashion boutique Melium Group and the creative director of the \"Farah Khan\" label. In 2011, The Star listed her as one of the top 100 memorable women in Malaysia. In 2006, Khan received the Italian Star of Solidarity Order (The Ordine della Stella della Solidarietà Italiana) from the Italian Ambassador to Malaysia Alessandro Busacca in conjunction with his country’s national day. This award honours foreign personalities who strengthen ties between Italy and foreign countries in terms of culture, language, humanitarian actions.\n\nKhan is the daughter, the third of five siblings, of a former diamond merchant and a lady who owned a Shanghainese-style fashion boutique called Le Bijou in Singapore. She learned the art of tailoring from her mother who made fashion dresses. Khan claims that she sees fashion as a form of self-expression and a means to display her creativity.\n\nAt 27, Khan divorced her first husband and remarried with Singaporean business tycoon Akbar Khan based in Kuala Lumpur. She adopted the Muslim name Farah Khan and joined her husband in the Malaysian capital. She stayed home for about a year and decided to resume her activities in the fashion industry.\n\nKhan has three children: a 35-year-old son and a 33-year-old daughter from her first marriage. She also has another son, aged 23, from her second marriage. Khan has since been in a long-term relationship with Greek businessman Dimitri Pantazaras, 58, a real estate developer. She spends time with charity causes for children with special needs. In the past, Khan battled stomach cancer and survived against odds. Now, she enjoys travelling and spending holidays with her family.\n\nKhan's career is better described through her achievements and creations in the fashion industry. Since 1974, she founded 3 luxury boutiques and a group. Khan is recognized in Malaysia as a style icon among notable designers including Jimmy Choo and Bernard Chandran.\n\nIn 1974, Khan set up The Link boutique along Orchard Road in Singapore at the Mandarin Hotel. It's a designer store with luxury Italian and British designer labels including Genny and Jean Muir. Unexpectedly, Khan sold the store in 1982 to Singaporean fashion retailer Tina Tan-Leo, married and moved to Malaysia.\n\nIn 1987, Khan opened Le Salon, a multi-brand boutique which carried notable brand including Versace and Alberta Ferretti. Then in 1989, she rebranded Le Salon to Melium Group set up in association with German leather brand Aigner, and menswear label Hugo Boss. The Melium Group operates 38 stores in Malaysia and runs Aseana, a luxury multi-brand boutique. The group also owns and operates a chain of 18 dome cafes in Malaysia. Under the leadership of Khan, the Melium Group operates in Indonesia as lone stores at the W Retreat & Spa in Bali and Plaza Indonesia, Jakarta.\n\nUnder the Melium Group umbrella, Khan launched in 2007, the fashion label FARAH KHAN that integrates Southeast Asian beadwork and modern styles. The label retails in several cities worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "17915845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17915845", "title": "Florance Broadhurst", "text": "Florance Broadhurst\n\nFlorance Constantine Broadhurst (1861–1909) was a 19th-century Western Australian businessman who is most notable for successfully taking over the management of a number of business ventures of his notoriously unsuccessful, yet extremely creative and hard-working father, Charles Edward Broadhurst, and turning a profit. The best known of these is the guano mining venture in the Houtman Abrolhos. While his entrepreneur father had recognised the potential of the industry and began mining, eventually to obtain a monopoly on the extraction of the guano, he proved unsuccessful in managing the concern. This situation continued until Florance, who had a mercantile education, joined the concern and began managing the venture under the name Broadhurst MacNeil and Company. MacNeil was initially a backer and a partner, but he took no part in the management of the venture. With his accountancy training F.C. Broadhurst proved enormously successful exporting to Europe and winning a gold medal at the Paris Exposition. \n\nWhile working the deposits on Gun Island, his labourers found a large number of artifacts that he believed to be relics of the 1629 \"Batavia\" shipwreck. He developed an interest in the wreck, and eventually obtained a copy of Isaac Commelin's 1647 \"Ongeluckige voyagie, van't schip Batavia\", the Dutch publication that first popularised the \"Batavia\" incident. He commissioned Willem Siebenhaar to translate it, and this resulted in what is still the only English translation, entitled \"The Abrolhos tragedy\". Broadhurst maintained a catalogue of his finds, which he donated to the state. These were eventually shown to be related not to the \"Batavia\", but the VOC ship \"Zeewijk\", which was wrecked off Gun Island in 1727. A friend of his children, Henrietta Drake-Brockman, came to learn of the Dutch wrecks while around the family home, and she became an acknowledged force in the eventual location of the Batavia wreck and its survivor's campsite. Though a great success, in 1904 Broadhurst lost the monopoly to the guano industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "4443911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4443911", "title": "Game Tycoon", "text": "Game Tycoon\n\nGame Tycoon is a business simulation game focused on production of video games. The game has been largely ridiculed, especially for some parts not translated from German to English.\nGame play is centered on the full production of video-game making; from production of an engine, concept design, physical design, packaging, licensing deals, market campaigns, and reviews.\n\nThe game starts off in 1982 with somewhat limited availability of features. Eventually, more options are made for engines and packaging, etc.\n"}
{"id": "9204399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9204399", "title": "Gershon Review", "text": "Gershon Review\n\nThe Gershon Efficiency Review was a review of efficiency in the UK public sector conducted in 2003-4 by Sir Peter Gershon.\n\nGordon Brown and Tony Blair, then Chancellor of the Exchequer and Prime Minister respectively, appointed Peter Gershon, at that time the head of the Office of Government Commerce, to review operations across all public services and make recommendations regarding expenditure and efficiency. His report recommended making savings for Financial Year 2005-6, to be achieved through dramatic changes to the organisation of each government department and automating their work patterns, in order to 'release' resources from the public sector budget that was then approximately £520bn. These gross savings of £21.5bn were reported to have been achieved by 2007 and agreed as part of the Comprehensive Spending Review in 2004 and subsequent budget.\n\nThe effect of these objectives has been for all government departments to agree reductions on their long-term budgets, and then work out how to fulfill these challenging promises without crippling their existing obligations and service.\n\nCertain functions were identified as offering good opportunities for savings through the use of ICT, such as tax collection and benefits payments. Aggregating and reorganising other functions offers the promise of savings in procurement, buildings and facilities. \nThe approach encourages departments to meet the government's desire for 'Joined-up Government' that smooths out the delivery of services, and supports initiatives such as the use of a Common Systems Strategy as suggested in Sir David Varney's Report and the Transformational Government strategy.\n\nHowever, not all government functions present such clear opportunities; those with a large proportion of physical assets or customer-facing staff have great challenges to offer the equivalent level of savings without suffering damage to their level of service.\n\nThe timeframe also gives these organisations the challenge of investing in new services at a time when departmental headcount and budgets are being cut. In reality, the 'Gershon reviews' have been applied in waves across organisations.\n\nIn many instances the Treasury has interpreted this release of resources to be a cost saving for reallocation outside to other projects or departments.\n\nRelocations recommended by Gershon have resulted in considerable loss of expertise, for example at the UK's Office For National Statistics, which has been criticized by the Chair of the Treasury Select committee. \n\nThe team that supported Sir Peter Gershon in this work was drawn from a number of Government departments and consultancy organisations:\n\n"}
{"id": "32387385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32387385", "title": "Gideon Amichay", "text": "Gideon Amichay\n\nGideon Amichay (; born 1963) is an Israeli advertising executive, marketer and author. He is the founder and chief creative officer of No, No, No, No, No, Yes, a creative boutique in New York and Tel Aviv. He also teaches at the School of Visual Arts in New York city. From May 1994 to November 2011, he acted as the Chief Creative Officer & Joint Managing Partner at Shalmor Avnon Amichay/Y&R, Tel Aviv, Israel.\n\nGideon Amichay was born and raised in Holon, Israel. He served in the IDF as a graphic designer and a reporter in the IDF's weekly newspaper \"Bamahane\".\nIn 1990 Amichay graduated with honors his visual Communication studies at the \"Betzalel Art Academy\" in Jerusalem, and School of Visual Arts in New York. In 2008, Amichay graduated with honors his EMBA studies for company leaders at the Berlin School of Creative Leadership.\n\nAmichay began drawing cartoons for television and newspapers at the age of 14. Amichay's cartoons and articles were published in many newspapers in Israel, including \"Yediot Aharonot\", \"Globes\", \"Ha'aretz\", \"The Marker\", \"Calcalist\" and \"Ma'ariv\", where he also started working as a cartoonist and journalist. Later, his cartoons were also published abroad, including in \"The New Yorker\" (1995).\n\nIn 1990, Amichay started his journey in the world of advertising as a creative director at the \"Warshavsky Froehlich Dover/Grey\" advertising agency. In May 1994 he joined Rami Shalmor and Shlomi Avnon as a partner and they turned into the \"Shalmor Avnon Amichay\" agency, where he served as joint CEO and Chief Creative Officer. Later, the agency joined the international Young & Rubicam network.\n\nFrom July 2011, the company's founders, Rami Shalmor, Shlomi Avnon and Gideon Amichay, became active chairmen.\nAmichay gave many lectures in Israel, including in Tel Aviv University, IDC Herzliya, Hebrew University, Betzalel Art Academy, The Neri Bloomfield School, and Shenkar College.\n\nSome of Amichay's lectures were broadcast live on Israel's Channel 2 website. Amichay was also invited to be a keynote speaker abroad, including in Eurobest (2009), New York Festivals (2010), in Shanghai, and in the Cannes Lions Festival (2011).\n\nAmichay is a committee member for the and, together with Ze'ev Ravid, they led the museum's branding campaign.\nAmichay was a member of the Young & Rubicam creative board for 10 years.\n\nOn September 11, 2011, Amichay has partnered with Aniboom and initiated a project to honor the upcoming 10th anniversary of September 11 attacks by bringing together animators from all over the world. Amichay envisioned that each participant would create a short animation inspired by the title: 9/11. It’s been ten years.\nOne of the videos was made by Amichay himself.\n\nIn 2011, Amichay published his first book in Hebrew - \"לא, לא, לא, לא, לא, לא, לא, כן\" that translate to: \"No, No, No, No, No, No, No, Yes\", The English edition - “No, No, No, No, No, Yes. Insights From a Creative Journey” was published in the US in January 2014. The book can be found at the MoMA store in New York as well as other venues.In 2016 he published his second book in Hebrew - “נו, נו, נו, נו, נו, נו, נו, יס” - A Creative Journey in New York.\n\nIn December 2012 Amichay gave a talk as a part of TEDx Jerusalem bearing the same name (\"No, No, No, No, No, No, No, Yes\")\n\nIn 2013 he founded No, No, No, No, No, Yes, a creative boutique in New York. In 2015 the Tel Aviv office was launched. Among its clients are Outbrain, DOGTV, VW Israel and others. In July 2013 the company created a content project for the Hebrew Wikipedia 10th anniversary, in cooperation with the Hebrew Wikipedia and Channel 2 news – Israeli News Company.\nIn 2016 the agency created The Cyber Horse for The Blavatnik Interdisciplinary Cyber Research Center (ICRC) - Tel Aviv University. The Cyber Horse is a piece of work created with thousands of infected computer and cell phone components. It illustrates the increasing use of malware in making cyberspace a hostile environment. It was created in order to prompt national and international awareness of the dangers of cyber-attacks. The project earned impressions around the world such as CBS NEWS, The Times UK, The Economist, The Telegraph, Le Monde, Der Spiegel)\n\nIn his position of Chief Creative Officer at Shalmor Avnon Amichay, Amichay led the agency to win many awards, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51859502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51859502", "title": "Gustavo Gaviria Angel", "text": "Gustavo Gaviria Angel\n\nGustavo Gaviria Angel (born August 12, 1948; Bogota, Colombia) is a Colombian coffee entrepreneur, founder and President of Industrias Aliadas, Coffeecol, Aurora and Chairman of Vision de Valores S.A. He is best known for his contribution as special ambassador of Colombia to the Milan Expo 2010 and the Shangai Expo 2015.\n\nGaviria studied industrial engineering from the University of Los Andes (Colombia). He holds a postgraduate degree in management from University of La Sabana also known as Inalde.\n\nGaviria serves as an adviser of the International Finance Corporation.\n\nGaviria served as Ambassador of Colombia in special mission and general commissioner to Expo 2010, known officially as Expo 2010 Shanghai China.\n\nGaviria was member of Board of Directors of the Sustainable Food Pavilion at Expo 2015, a Universal Exposition hosted by Milan, Italy. In this capacity, he was responsible for introducing Colombia to the 3 million visitors of this event.\n"}
{"id": "21513188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21513188", "title": "Heiser, Rosenfeld, and Strauss Buildings", "text": "Heiser, Rosenfeld, and Strauss Buildings\n\nHeiser, Rosenfeld, and Strauss Buildings, also known as Inner Harbor Lofts I, is a historic loft building located at Baltimore, Maryland, United States. It is a complex of three structures. The Heiser Building is a Romanesque Revival style, six-story brick, stone, and iron structure, eight bays wide and 14 bays deep, built as a show factory in 1886. The Rosenfeld Building is a six-story, five-bay loft building, with Beaux Arts styling and built for E. Rosenfeld and Company in 1905. The Strauss Building is a six-story high, six-bay wide, and 11-bay deep loft structure built in 1887 for the Kinny Tobacco Company, cigarette manufacturers, and later occupied by the Strauss Brothers, clothing manufacturers and became part of the Rosenfeld complex around 1910.\n\nHeiser, Rosenfeld, and Strauss Buildings was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "2011728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2011728", "title": "Intelligent device management", "text": "Intelligent device management\n\nIntelligent device management is a technology used for enterprise software applications that allow equipment manufacturers to monitor and manage remote equipment, systems and products via the Internet. Another term for intelligent device management is remote device management (RDM) while strategic service management describes the service.\n\nIDM extends IT service management to on-site devices and can support standard service processes, such as Incident, Problem, Change, Configuration Management as defined by ITIL.\n\nThis technology is commonly used by ATM, security and self-service kiosk companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30367091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30367091", "title": "Isaac Gilinski Sragowicz", "text": "Isaac Gilinski Sragowicz\n\nIsaac Gilinski Sragowicz ( born 19 February 1934) is a Colombian banker and financier currently serving as Ambassador of Colombia to Israel.\n\nGilinski was appointed Ambassador of Colombia to Israel by President Álvaro Uribe Vélez on 28 October 2009 in a ceremony of protocol that took place at the Palace of Nariño; he later presented his Letters of Credence in a ceremony of protocol at Beit HaNassi to the President of Israel, Shimon Peres, on 11 January 2010. Gilinski's brother, Lazar, had also served as Ambassador of Colombia to Israel in the 80's.\n\nBorn Isaac Gilinski Sragowicz on 19 February 1934 in Barranquilla, he is the son of Lithuanian immigrants who settled in that city from Israel in the 1920s. He is married to Perla Bacal Zweiban since 1957, with whom he had three children: Jaime, Rutie, Tania.\n\n"}
{"id": "57510882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57510882", "title": "JD Asia No 1 Warehouse", "text": "JD Asia No 1 Warehouse\n\nJD Asia No 1. Warehouse is a fully automatic warehouse operated by robot by created by JD.com. The warehouse is located in Shanghai.\n"}
{"id": "15606691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15606691", "title": "Jacksonville Riverwalks", "text": "Jacksonville Riverwalks\n\nThe Jacksonville Riverwalks are a network of multi-use trails and open space developments along both the north and south banks of the St. Johns River in Jacksonville, Florida. The roughly Downtown Northbank portion travels alongside the Hyatt Regency Jacksonville, Jacksonville Landing, Times-Union Center for the Performing Arts, CSX Transportation Building, and extends into the Brooklyn district. The Southbank portion of the trail connects local landmarks such as Friendship Fountain, Museum of Science and History and Riverplace Tower.\n\nThe first section of the Riverwalk opened on the Downtown Southbank on November 8, 1985. It was intended as a venue where tourists and local residents alike could view the beauty of the river and the skyline of the city. On a sunny day, the view from the walk includes shimmering water, shiny buildings, sailboats & speedboats. The walk was designed by Perkins & Perkins Architects to be a festive waterfront public space linking Friendship Fountain and Harbormasters Restaurant (now River City Brewing Co.) with hotels and office buildings east of the Main Street Bridge. Friendship Park Fountain was built in 1965 and became one of the most recognizable landmarks in the city. A graphic system was developed and, included banners, kiosks and signage to provide visitors with clear and legible information, as well as reinforce the warm and lively image of the riverwalk.\n\nA few of the project were built but scaled back. The St. Johns Wharf was a planned open-air marketplace to be built over the river adjacent to the Wyndham Hotel. A few shops were built along the riverwalk, but the wharf was never constructed. Four open air pavilions were planned and projected to include concessions and restroom facilities. only two were constructed. The Ship Museum, an attraction to emphasize the historic relationship between the city and the river; projected to include floating ship exhibits, was scaled back to the current Jacksonville Maritime Museum, now closed. Multiple projects did not come to fruition. The Grove, a raised grass seating area shaded by a grove of palm trees; The Pyramid, an outdoor structure with terraced seating area for special events; An Aquarium located south of the maritime museum, facing Friendship Fountain, which would showcase local freshwater and saltwater marine life; A Great Lawn for recreation and relaxation; A sidewalk café under the bridge that would link both sides of riverwalk; A 3,000-seat open-air amphitheater with bandstand and theatrical lighting, built out into the river that would be used for public concerts, ballets, festivals and school graduations.\nIn January, 2005, a ribbon-cutting ceremony was held to celebrate the opening of the latest extension of the Northbank Riverwalk. Construction took nearly two years for the , $8.7 million project. The landscaped brick walkway connects the existing Riverwalk at the CSX building to Riverside Avenue. Its features include historical lighting, water fountains, trash receptacles, bike racks, irrigated landscaping and over 100 benches.\n\nNearly 40 feet of Riverwalk was temporarily closed in late 2006 when corrosion caused steel pilings to fail and the supported walkway buckled. The city allocated $1.3 million to inspect the entire Riverwalk and make emergency repairs, and planned a multi-year capital improvement project eventually costing $25 million for upgrades split between both riverwalks. As part of that project, the city began installing 306 pile jackets in and around the area of the 2006 closure at a cost of $1.4 million.\n\nAt the January 31, 2008 meeting of the Downtown Development Review Board (DDRB) of the Jacksonville Economic Development Commission (JEDC), plans were tentatively approved for a 128-slip dockage facility to be named, \"The South Shore Marina & Riverwalk at the Aetna Building\". The project would include a new section of southbank riverwalk on the Aetna Building property, which has of riverfrontage. Permits from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection and the United States Army Corps of Engineers had already been obtained, but financial conditions forced the project to be placed on hold.\nThe City of Jacksonville and Fidelity National Financial executed a land swap in 2008 that added in exchange for the parcel of land under Riverside Avenue's historic fire station. The city has the option to move the structure before it can be demolished, and funding for that purpose is being discussed.\n\nThe \"Riverside Arts Market\" (RAM) was begun in 2008 beneath the Fuller Warren Bridge around the Northbank Riverwalk. It is open on Saturdays, 10-4 from March to December and features an eclectic mix of vendors offering arts and crafts, food and drink, fruits and vegetables and live entertainment in a family-friendly environment. Eight of the market's vendors have subsequently opened brick & mortar stores or restaurants.\n\nIn late June 2009, a 12-foot corner section of concrete walkway on the northbank collapsed due to erosion of the steel bulkhead. Another portion of the riverwalk was closed after bricks became loose when the walkway sank several inches. Repairs to both damaged areas were completed prior to the July 4th celebration and fireworks show.\n\nA meeting was held in January, 2010 between Mayor John Peyton and several city councilmen to discuss progress on three major downtown improvement projects, including Southbank Riverwalk replacement. Legislation was filed to fund these three projects with a price tag of $23 million. $11.9 million was allocated to replace the wooden structure with a more durable material with a 40-year life span, and upgrade lighting, railing and trash receptacles. On February 9, 2010 the city council passed the three bills without debate, providing final approval for all three projects.\n\nAs of late 2011, the Northbank Riverwalk ran from the Fuller Warren Bridge to the former Shipyards property, owned by the city of Jacksonville. There are plans to extend it west to Riverside's Memorial Park, and east to Metropolitan Park across from the stadium. Free parking exists under the Fuller Warren Bridge. \nThe center of the Northbank Riverwalk is the Landing. In 2002, the Jacksonville Track Club partnered with the city in commissioning \"The Runner\", a statue of a sprinting man on the riverwalk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21029627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21029627", "title": "James Randall Corrigan", "text": "James Randall Corrigan\n\nJames Randall Corrigan (10 July 1865 – 19 March 1935) was a New Zealand Liberal Party Member of Parliament, farmer and businessman.\n\nBorn at Woodend, North Canterbury, Corrigan was a very successful farmer in the North Island, and breeder of sheep, cattle and trotting horses. He died in Hawera aged 69 years.\n\nJames Corrigan represented the Patea electorate in the New Zealand House of Representatives between 1922 and 1925.\n\nA daughter, Dorothy Corrigan, married the Independent MP for Nelson, Harry Atmore, in 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "14717114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14717114", "title": "Jan Callewaert", "text": "Jan Callewaert\n\nJan Callewaert (born Wielsbeke, 1956) is a Belgian businessman. He is the general manager of Option N.V. In 2005, he was voted manager of the year in Belgium. He also was the chairman of football club Oud-Heverlee Leuven.\n\nHe obtained a Master in commercial sciences and a bachelor in philosophy at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25642199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25642199", "title": "John Biddle (yachting cinematographer)", "text": "John Biddle (yachting cinematographer)\n\nJohn Scott Biddle (1925–2008) was a foremost yachting cinematographer and lecturer, establishing a film-making career that spanned more than forty years. His films captured not only the technical aspects of sailing but also the human story in events as tranquil as a Nova Scotia cruise and as grand as the America's Cup Races.\n\nBiddle was born on June 7, 1925, near Philadelphia, the fourth of five children. His parents, were both from prominent Philadelphia families.\nHis father was Brigadier General Nicholas Biddle (1893–1977), whose great-grandfather was Nicholas Biddle, President of the Second Bank of the United States.\nHis mother was Sarah Lippincott Biddle (1894–1962), whose paternal grandfather Joshua Ballinger Lippincott (1813–1886) founded J. B. Lippincott Company, and maternal grandfather Joseph Wharton (1826–1909) founded the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. His colorful family included cousins Livingston L. Biddle, Jr. and Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle, Jr.\n\nBiddle’s father served a lifelong term with the National Guard, was active in both World Wars, and was a well-noted, big-game hunter. He was commissioned to travel the world and bring back specimens; some of his ‘trophies’ still reside at Philadelphia’s Academy of Natural Sciences. During Nicholas’ travels, he would film the hunts, then return home and allow young John to experiment with his movie camera and all his unexposed film.\n\nJohn tinkered further with the camera at his family’s summer home in Jamestown, Rhode Island, where he also mastered the idiosyncrasies of ocean sailing. Focusing on his brothers, sisters and twelve cousins as subjects on and around Narragansett Bay, he refined his choice of angles, composition, containment of action within the frame and editing.\n\nBiddle, and his many cousins, attended Meadowbrook School, then went on to Kent School in Connecticut. He turned 18 in 1943 and served in the infantry during World War II. A bad tooth sent him to the back of the lines during fighting in Belgium. There it was noticed that he could play piano and work a movie projector, so he was assigned to entertain the troops. Shortly thereafter, he discovered two thirds of his platoon had been killed in a firefight. His entertaining skills likely had spared his life. They also led to an unlikely occurrence: brother Nicholas Jr., who was fighting in the same region, learned that John was working at the back of the lines and flabbergasted him with a visit. After the war, John attended Trinity College, then returned overseas to Germany with the First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry during the Korean War.\n\nIn the 1950s, Biddle spent several years working as an engineer while snapping wedding and baby photos on the side. His father would have liked him to enter the family insurance business, Biddle, Bishop and Smith (now named Biddle & Company), but John saw a different path. After watching a John Jay skiing film, he imagined himself doing the same thing with sailing. The following June he embarked on the 1956 Bermuda Race aboard cousin Charles Wharton’s 51-foot cutter, \"Souvenir\" with his film camera along. He combined that footage with three other pieces he shot that summer, and booked himself into yacht clubs for his first lecture-show.\n\nFor over four decades, Biddle shot films of dinghy races, Tall Ships events and everything in between. Over seventy types of boats were shown in his documentary-style presentations. 16 mm Bell and Howell in hand, he filmed 130 feet off the deck of square-riggers and fifteen feet underwater. He filmed from Greenland down to the Islands, from Greece to New Zealand. He shot ocean races like the Fastnet Race, classic sailing regattas like the Friendship Sloop Regatta, cruises, celebrations, native fishboat races, small boat races. To capture viewable images on the rolling, bouncy seas, he used (and later marketed) what he called the Biddlestick – a monopod-like stick which he attached to his movie cameras, allowing him to hold onto deck stays while keeping the camera steady.\n\nIn addition to his annual show, Biddle made promotional films for boat manufacturers and sailboat classes, filmed a five-episode TV series for Mercury Marine called \"Let’s Go Boating\" narrated by Lloyd Bridges, and occasionally filmed for private clients.\n\nEach year, Biddle would film three to four events in the summer months, edit the mile of film into a 90-minute presentation in the fall, write a script for same, have music pulled for the film and edit the music to fit. In winter, he would begin a five-month tour of the United States, Canada, Bermuda, the Caribbean (and occasionally Europe and Australia) where he would present his films in person as many as 100 times, primarily at yacht clubs. For many of Biddle's audience, his show presented the only opportunity to see the highlights of the past year's sailing events. One of the great attractions was his ability to catch the amusing and exhilarating aspects of sailing, not only on film, but in his quick-witted, dry-humored delivery peppered with terms like \"callapso flapitis\", referring to frantic moments on the boat. Biddle was his own production company, performing the tasks of: contact agent, scheduler, publicist, copywriter, photo developer, poster designer, accountant, cinematographer, film editor, scriptwriter, music editor, driver, porter, set-up man and performer.\n\nBiddle married Mary McMichael in 1961 in Jamestown, Rhode Island and they had two children, Sophie in 1964 and Scott in 1966. Mary assisted John in filming the early America's Cup races. She had a stroke shortly after the birth of Scott and died five years later. Following this, Biddle managed to spend time at home with his children while continuing his career on the road and was able to include Sophie and Scott on trips to Bermuda, a cruise to Maine and trips to various lecture dates. In March 1977, he married Amy McKay van Roden in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania with three stepchildren: Winifred, Peter and Julie. \n\nBiddle filmed two races multiple times. The Bermuda Race he sailed 11 times to capture the stories that this pre-eminent, East Coast distance race delivered. Despite the race’s long history and prestige, Biddle is the only film-maker to have focused on it. He also filmed the international yacht racing event, the America's Cup, all ten times when 12-metre class boats were used, from 1958 to 1987. For this, he took footage of the Sparkman & Stephens test tanks, of the spring practices, the summer trials, the Newport, Rhode Island balls, the dock happenings and the September finals. He was invited to shoot on board the 12-metre yachts by mercurial skippers including Ted Turner, Dennis Conner, Ted Hood and Bus Mosbacher. The rare invitations were granted because of his nautical proficiency and ability to get key shots while staying clear of onboard action.\n\nAfter moving to Jamestown in 1980, Biddle became active with the Jamestown Community Chorus and directed the town talent show for several years.\n\nDuring his career, Biddle created 140 sailing films which he placed into 41 annual lecture shows from 1956 to 1996. He made over 3,000 presentations to audiences as large as 3,000 people. In the summer of 2008, Biddle was nominated for induction into the America's Cup Hall of Fame at the Herreshoff Marine Museum in Bristol, Rhode Island. He fell ill with cancer soon thereafter and died on October 1, 2008 at the age of 83 in Middletown, Rhode Island. The formal induction ceremony was held in April 2009. Gary Jobson said of Biddle’s film-making achievement, “His film archive is one of the most comprehensive and important yachting libraries in existence”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "548878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548878", "title": "John Jacob Astor VI", "text": "John Jacob Astor VI\n\nJohn Jacob \"Jakey\" Astor VI (August 14, 1912 – June 26, 1992) was an American socialite, shipping businessman, and member of the Astor family. He was dubbed the \"\"Titanic\" Baby\" for his affiliation with the RMS \"Titanic\"; Astor was born four months after his father, Colonel John Jacob Astor IV, died in the sinking of the \"Titanic\"; his pregnant mother Madeleine Astor survived the sinking.\n\nAstor was known for his legal battles with the estate of his elder half-brother, Vincent Astor, to inherit a larger portion of their father's $85 million fortune (approximately equivalent to $ billion in dollars). He was also known for his many engagements and four marriages to prominent society women.\n\nJohn Jacob Astor VI was born at 840 Fifth Avenue in New York City on August 14, 1912. He was the son of Colonel John Jacob \"Jack\" Astor IV (1864–1912) and socialite Madeleine Talmage Force (1893–1940). Jakey's parents' marriage, on September 9, 1911, had sparked much controversy both because of their 29-year age difference and since Colonel Astor had only previously been divorced from his first wife, socialite Ava Lowle Willing (1868–1958), one year earlier, on March 5, 1910.\n\nThe newlyweds were returning home aboard the \"Titanic\" after about three months of honeymooning in Egypt and Europe. Madeleine was five months pregnant with Jakey when her husband put her in one of the ship's lifeboats. She was rescued eight hours after her husband went down with the ship.\n\nAfter Jack's death, Madeleine raised their son at the Astors' Newport, Rhode Island, mansion, Beechwood, as part of the Astor family. She would later remarry to banker William Karl Dick (1888–1953) in June 1916, and boxer Enzo Fiermonte (1908–1993) in November 1933. Through Dick, she would have two more sons: William Force Dick (1917–1961) and John Henry Dick II (1919–1995). Fiermonte taught her sons boxing.\n\nJakey, who had become close to Dick, highly opposed the union with Fiermonte and repeatedly tried to convince his mother to end the relationship. He and his mother frequently argued over the union. This caused a rift between the two, though they later reconciled within several months of the marriage. When asked if his mother was marrying Fiermonte, he responded \"Unfortunately, it's true\".\n\nJakey graduated from St. George's School in Middletown, Rhode Island and from Harvard University.\n\nUnder the terms of Colonel Astor's will, Madeleine received relatively little from her husband's $85 million estate (approximately equivalent to $ billion in dollars). This value included his estate in Rhinebeck and his yacht, the \"Noma\". William Vincent Astor (1891–1959), the Colonel's son from his first marriage, received $69 million (about $ billion in dollars), while the Colonel's daughter from his first marriage, Ava Alice Muriel Astor (1902–1956), received a $10 million trust fund (about $ million in dollars).\n\nThe Colonel's 19-year-old widow Madeleine received the annual income from a $5 million trust fund (about $ million in dollars), sweetened by an annual payment of $500,000 (about $ million in dollars), as well as use of his New York mansion 65th & Fifth Avenue, all its furnishings, and his Newport mansion Beechwood and all of its furnishings, the pick of whichever luxury limo she wanted from his collection, and five of his prized horses, provided that she did not remarry. While not listed by name, his father's will mentioned that any surviving child other than his children Vincent and Ava would receive a bequest of $3 million, to be held in trust until the child reached age 21. Jakey inherited the $3 million on his 21st birthday, which by that point had grown to $5 million (about $ million in dollars). When Madeleine died in late March 1940, she left him a diamond solitaire ring worth $50,000 (about $ in dollars) and a pearl necklace worth $1,525 (about $ in dollars).\n\nElder half-brother Vincent's contempt for Madeleine led him to believe that Jakey was not even a biological Astor. Having despised his younger half-brother since birth, Vincent left him nothing in his will. Jakey felt cheated and resentfully stated Vincent \"had the legal, not the moral right to keep all the money\". After Vincent died childless in early February 1959, Jakey sued Vincent's widow Roberta Brooke Russell (1902—2007) to inherit his money. He was convinced that Vincent was \"mentally incompetent\" when signing his last will in June 1958 due to alcoholism, though Brooke insisted Vincent was \"fully competent\". While Vincent was hospitalized, Brooke would often bring him liquor. Jakey accused her of using the liquor to influence the will in her favor. Jakey ended up settling for $250,000 (about $ million in dollars). The rest of money remained with the Vincent Astor foundation and Brooke.\n\nAstor became engaged to Eileen Sherman Gillespie (1915–2008), the elder daughter of Lieutenant Lawrence Lewis Gillespie (1876–1940) and Irene Muriel Augusta Sherman (1887–1972), in early December 1933. Irene's parents were businessman William Watts Sherman (1842–1912) and Sophia Augusta Brown (1867–1947). They planned to marry on February 6, 1934. However, she called off the wedding on January 22, 1934, after a bitter argument. Heartbroken, he went to Shanghai shortly afterwards to grieve, returning to America in early May 1934. Astor blamed her parents for interfering with the relationship. He once suggested they could potentially reconcile, stating \"I was willing to marry her, and if I were to think about it, I might still be willing to marry her.\" Eileen's daughter Marguerite \"Margy\" Slocum later said of him: \"She felt that he had grown up lonely... He was a bit eccentric, and she felt he wasn't mature enough to get married.\"\n\nA few weeks after returning from Shanghai, he became engaged to Eileen's close friend socialite Ellen Tuck \"Tucky\" French (1915–1974), the elder daughter of Francis Ormond \"Frank\" French II (1888–1962) and Eleanor Livingston Burrill (1891–1974).<ref name=\"Francis/Eleanor\"></ref> They married on June 30, 1934, at Trinity Church in Newport, Rhode Island. Tucky was a first cousin of Rhode Island Governor William Henry Vanderbilt III (1901–1981), and had previously been attracted to Jakey while he was engaged to Eileen. Along with Eileen's sister Phyllis, Tucky was scheduled to be a bridesmaid at Jakey and Eileen's wedding. Together, the couple had one son before divorcing in May 1943.\n\n\nAt the time of their son's birth, Jakey was working at the International Mercantile Marine Co. Another of Tucky's sisters, Virginia Middleton French (1917–2011), would marry William Force Dick, Astor's half-brother through his mother, on December 18, 1941, before her marriage to Philip B. Pool. The two had respectively served as matron of honor and usher to Astor and Tucky's wedding. Astor served as an usher and Tucky was matron of honor to Virginia and William's wedding. Virginia and Vincent were appointed as the godparents of William Backhouse Astor III.\n\nOn September 18, 1944, in New York City, he married for the second time to Gertrude Gretsch (1923–1999), the daughter of Walter and Gertrude Gretsch. Their marriage ended in divorce on August 2, 1954, after being separated for four years, though the Mexican divorce was ruled invalid in 1956. An American divorce soon followed. Before their separation and divorce, the couple had a daughter:\n\n\nOn August 6, 1954, Astor married for the third time to Dolores Margaret \"Dolly\" Fullman (born c. 1928) in Arlington, Virginia. For the 26 year old Dolly, it was her second marriage. They separated soon after returning from their honeymoon and divorced.\n\nAstor married his fourth, and final wife, Sue Sandford in 1956. They remained married until her death in 1985.\n\nAstor died in Miami Beach, Florida, in 1992 at the age of 79. His body was returned to New York for burial with his parents in the Trinity Church Cemetery. At the time of his death, he was survived by his son, daughter, three grandsons, and younger half-brother.\n\nThrough his son, Astor was a grandfather to two boys, William Backhouse Astor IV (b. 1959) and Gregory Todd Astor (b. 1966) who portrayed Colonel Astor in \"Titanic the Musical\" in April 2012 Gregory married Robin Rhodes, and together, they have three children: Alexandra Ellen \"Allie\" Astor (b. 1997), Rebecca Charlotte \"Becca\" Astor (b. 1998), and Stephen William Astor (b. 2002).\n\nThrough his daughter, Astor was a grandfather to Nicholas Astor Drexel (b. 1988).\n\nAstor's name is shown on one of the page buttons on an apartment building in Mel Brooks' 2005 movie musical \"The Producers\".\n\nEven though some sources refer to Jakey as John Jacob V, John Jacob Astor, 1st Baron Astor of Hever (1886–1971) was born first and therefore is actually John Jacob Astor V. Jakie Astor (1918–2000), youngest brother of David Astor, was John Jacob Astor VII; the 3rd Baron Astor of Hever is John Jacob Astor VIII. Jakey is sometimes (incorrectly) referred to as John Jacob III.\n\n"}
{"id": "26654243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26654243", "title": "Knowledge commons", "text": "Knowledge commons\n\nThe term \"knowledge commons\" refers to information, data, and content that is collectively owned and managed by a community of users, particularly over the Internet. What distinguishes a knowledge commons from a commons of shared physical resources is that digital resources are non-subtractible; that is, multiple users can access the same digital resources with no effect on their quantity or quality.\n\nThe term 'commons' is derived from the medieval economic system \"the commons\". Today, the knowledge commons act as a frame of reference for a number of domains, including Open Educational resources such as the MIT OpenCourseware, free digital media such as Wikipedia, Creative commons–licensed art, open-source research, and open scientific collections such as the Public Library of Science or the Science Commons, Free Software and Open Design. According to research by Charlotte Hess and Elinor Ostrom, the conceptual background of the knowledge commons encompasses two intellectual histories: first, a European tradition of battling the enclosure of the \"intangible commons of the mind\", threatened by expanding intellectual property rights and privatization of knowledge. Second, a tradition rooted in the United States, which sees the knowledge commons as a shared space allowing for free speech and democratic practices, and which is in the tradition of the town commons movement and commons-based production of scholarly work, open science, open libraries, and collective action.\n\nThe production of works in the knowledge commons is often driven by collective intelligence respectively the wisdom of crowds and is related to knowledge communism as it was defined by Robert K. Merton, according to whom scientists give up intellectual property rights in exchange for recognition and esteem.\n\nFerenc Gyuris argues, that it is important to distinguish \"information\" from \"knowledge\" in defining the term \"knowledge commons\". He argues that \"knowledge as a shared resource\" requires that both information must become accessible and potential recipients must become able and willing to internalize it as 'knowledge'. \"Therefore, knowledge cannot become a shared resource without a complex set of institutions and practices that give the opportunity to potential recipients to gain the necessary abilities and willingness\".\n\nA main principle of the knowledge commons is that the traditional \"copyright\" is being replaced by \"copyleft\". Copyleft licenses grant licensees all necessary rights such as right to study, use, change and redistribute—under the condition that all future works building on the license are again kept in the commons.\nThe most popular applications of the 'copyleft' principle are the GNU Software Licenses (GPL, LGPL and GFDL by Free Software Foundation) and the share-alike licenses under creative commons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1632023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632023", "title": "Live export", "text": "Live export\n\nLive export is the commercial transport of livestock across national borders. The trade involves a number of countries with the Australian live export industry being one of the largest exporters in the global trade. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, exports of live sheep rose 21.4% and live calves increased 9.7% between March 2017 and March 2018. During 2017 alone, Australia exported 2.85 million living animals in shipping containers and airplanes. The expansion of the trade has been supported by the introduction of purpose-built ships which carry large numbers of animals. The amount of livestock exported from the European Union grew to nearly 586m kilograms between 2014 and 2017, a 62.5% increase during the time period. \n\nThere has been strong criticism of the industry on animal rights grounds. New Zealand has effectively phased out live exports for slaughter purposes since 2007 due to concerns about animals.\n\nThe EU introduced new legislation in 2004, which was planned to come into force in 2007. Agriculture Ministers from individual states who make up the Council however, have deferred decisions on a package of reforms, including journey times, until 2011. They have adopted some reforms that offer more training and certification for drivers by 2009.\n\nThe legislation was also written with the aim of covering better loading and unloading facilities.\n\nBetween 15 July 2002 and January 2004, around 200,000 lambs and sheep were exported for slaughter or further fattening abroad, mainly to France and Italy.\n\nThe Animal and Plant Health Agency (APHA) is responsible for conducting inspections of animals at the point of loading and at ports. Trading Standards also has powers to inspect animals during transport, and is responsible for carrying out any prosecutions under the regulations.\n\nThe Port of Ramsgate temporarily halted live transport after an incident in 2012, when 40 sheep were euthanised after being badly injured during transit. The decision was overturned by the High Court on the grounds that the port could not ban live animal exports on the grounds of freedom of movement with the EU and UK legislation.\n\nAfter his appointment as Secretary of State for the Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs, Michael Gove indicated in July 2017 that Brexit would offer the opportunity to ban live animal export for slaughter.\n\nAustralia is one of the world's largest exporters of sheep and cattle. According to Meat and Livestock Australia, 2.44 million sheep were exported to markets in Asia and the Middle East in 2012, reduced from 4.2 million in 2008. The total number of cattle exported in 2012 was 617, 301, down 11% from the previous year. Indonesia accounted for 45% of total live cattle exports from Australia in 2012. Total cattle exports to Indonesia reduced by 33% from 2011.\n\nThe reduction in cattle exports to Indonesia in 2012 was partly due to the newly imposed ESCAS (Exporter Supply Chain Assurance Scheme) from 2011, and partly due to Indonesia's move to become self-sufficient in beef production Most of the livestock are for human consumption but there is also an active trade in breeding stock, including dairy cattle.\n\nThe Department of Agriculture and Water Resources controls the Australian Standards for the Export of Livestock. The standards were amended in April 2011 (version 2.3). The Department also introduced ESCAS (Exporter Supply Chain Assurance Scheme), in 2011 — a system requiring exporters to provide evidence of compliance with internationally agreed animal welfare standards, and to demonstrate traceability and control through the supply chain. According to the Department, ESCAS was developed in response to evidence of cruelty to Australian cattle in Indonesia, and then extended to all livestock exports for the purpose of slaughter. See Animal Welfare section.\n\nAQIS (Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service) manages quarantine controls to minimise the risk of exotic pests and diseases entering the country. AQIS also provides import and export inspection and certification to help retain Australia's highly favourable animal, plant and human health status and wide access to overseas export markets.\n\nOther key markets include Israel, Malaysia, Japan, Mexico and China. The major markets for Australian sheep are Kuwait and Jordan. Other key markets are Bahrain, the UAE, Oman and Qatar. Australia's main market competitors are from China, South America and North Africa.\n\nIn 2005, New Zealand exported NZ$217 million worth of live animals, mainly for breeding purposes. Exports included cattle, sheep, horses, deer, goats and day-old chicks. Because New Zealand is free from most exotic diseases most livestock shipments are for breeding or finishing purposes. Cattle are not exported for slaughter and the last export of sheep for slaughter was in 2003.\n\nIn November 2007, the New Zealand Government introduced the new Customs Exports Prohibition (Livestock for Slaughter) Order. Although not a blanket ban, the new legal requirement restricts live animal exports for slaughter unless the risks to animals and New Zealand's trade reputation can be adequately managed. There has been no export of live animals for slaughter purposes since that date.\n\nLive exports have been subject to scrutiny by animal welfare groups around the world.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, animal welfare group Compassion in World Farming has named live exports of sheep and cattle “cruel and unnecessary”. Most UK live animal exports currently ship out of the Port of Ramsgate. In June 2011 a Ramsgate Town Councillor, Ian Driver, spoke out in opposition to live exports. On September 12, 2012, 46 sheep were euthanised after injuries inflicted due to transportation faults at the Port of Ramsgate. A temporary suspension on live exports from the Port was called by the Thanet Council.\n\nNew Zealand has partaken in no live animal exports for slaughter since 2003, after 4000 sheep died on a ship bound for Saudi Arabia. In 2012, the President of the Federated Farmers of New Zealand was quoted as saying:\n\nAnimal welfare groups in New Zealand continue to call for a ban on live export of animals for breeding purposes. SAFE has stated that live exports pose “potential for serious suffering.\"\n\nAustralia's live export industry has experienced significant scrutiny by animal welfare groups since 2003. The RSPCA is opposed to live export. Over 550,000 animals are reported to have died en route during live export journeys between 2000-2012. A 2006 Freedom of Information report revealed sheep died on route due to several factors including heat stress, septicaemia and acute pneumonia. Dr Lynn Simpson, a former on-board vet for the live export industry, made a submission to the Department of Agriculture in March 2013 condemning animal welfare conditions on live export ships. A group of former live export vets - Veterinarians Against Live Export (VALE) has formed to oppose the trade. Prominent former live export veterinarians who have spoken out against the conditions on ships include Dr Lloyd Reeve Johnson, who expressed his concern about the conflict of interest involved in live export companies paying for animal welfare advice, Dr Tony Hill, who was allegedly pressured to report 105 mortalities when in fact 2000 sheep had died, and Dr Kerkenezov, who has urged an end to an industry he calls \"cruel.\"\n\nIn March 2011, Animals Australia investigators collected footage which showed Australian cattle being slaughtered at 11 abattoirs in Indonesia with practices that infringed upon OIE standards for animal welfare. Animals Australia and RSPCA Australia jointly complained to the federal Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, calling for a ban on live exports. In response to the footage, live exports to Indonesia were suspended by the Australian Minister for Agriculture from June 7, 2011 until July 6, 2011. The suspension was lifted with the new Exporter Supply Chain Assurance System in place, outlining mandatory compliance for all importing markets of Australian live animals for slaughter, with international standards for animal welfare. The ESCAS regulatory framework is applicable across all importing markets as of December 31, 2012.\n\nThe footage was the subject of a separate investigation conducted by ABC program, Four Corners, shown on 30 May 2011. The report entitled “A Bloody Business” was the winner of a Logie Award for “Most Outstanding Public Affairs Report” as well as the 2011 Gold Walkley Award.\n\nIn November 2012, another widely reported investigation by Animals Australia brought attention to the slaughter of 22,000 Australian sheep in an ESCAS-approved feedlot in Pakistan, after weeks at sea upon the initial consignment being rejected by Bahrain due to claimed fears of disease. The video footage of the cull, obtained by Animals Australia “shows absolute chaos with animals being dragged, beaten, having their throats sawn at with blunt knives and thrown into mass graves -- some of them still alive hours later.\" Animals Australia's Campaign Director, Lyn White, stated of the incident:\n\nOn 6 May 2013 a report aired on Australia's \"ABC 7.30\", revealing footage of cruelty to Australian cattle in at least one Egyptian abattoir. The footage, provided to the Australian Department of Agriculture by animal protection group Animals Australia, led to a suspension of live trade to Egypt. Australian Agriculture Minister Joe Ludwig described the footage as \"sickening\", and the Australian Live Exporters' Council chief executive, Alison Penfold, said she was \"distraught and disgusted\".\n\nIn May 2013, evidence was provided to the Department of Agriculture showing what is alleged to be Australian goats being roughly handled and sold outside of approved facilities in Malaysia. The footage also allegedly showed breaches of required animal welfare standards during slaughter of Australian cattle. The Department confirmed it had reviewed the footage and launched an investigation.\n\nAnimals Australia report to have conducted a total of 30 separate investigations into the live export industry between May 2003 and April 2014.\n\nIn 2009, the World Animal Protection live export campaign commissioned economic think tank ACIL Tasman to undertake economic research into the live export trade. This research found that there are potential value adding opportunities being lost in Australia due to trade distortions in the live export trade. The report analysed the economics and policy settings of the live sheep export trade from Western Australia and demonstrated that a sheep processed domestically is worth 20% more to the Australian economy than one exported live.\n\nIn October 2012, World Animal Protection published a further piece of research into the live export trade. This research found that if a cattle processing facility was built in the Northern Territory or North-Western Australia, in conjunction with live export, there would potentially be an increase of 245% or more in gross earnings for Australian cattle producers, more than 1,300 jobs for unemployed Australians and gross regional product growth of $204 million per annum.\n\nIn August 2011, two bills were presented to Australian Parliament calling for an end to live exports on animal welfare grounds, by Independent Senator Nick Xenophon and the Australian Greens Party. Both bills were rejected by the House of Representatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "37248212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37248212", "title": "Lyndon Farnham", "text": "Lyndon Farnham\n\nLyndon John Farnham is a Senator and a member of the States of Jersey. He was first elected as Deputy (legislator) of St Saviour No. 2 district in 1999. He was re-elected as a Senator in 2011 and sworn to office on 14 November 2011 He was re-elected as a Senator in October 2014 and appointed as Minister (government) for Economic Development on 6 November 2014.\n\nHe is a former president of the Jersey Hospitality Association, and a former chairman of the Jersey Battle of Flowers Association. He is a Businessman and a company director.\n\nFarnham lead the campaign to retain the office of Senator which supported \"Option C\" in the Jersey electoral reform referendum held on 24 April 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "42532608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42532608", "title": "Makridakis Competitions", "text": "Makridakis Competitions\n\nThe Makridakis Competitions (also known as the M Competitions or M-Competitions) are a series of open competitions organized by teams led by forecasting researcher Spyros Makridakis and intended to evaluate and compare the accuracy of different forecasting methods.\n\nThe first Makridakis Competition, held in 1982, and known in the forecasting literature as the M-Competition, used 1001 time series and 15 forecasting methods (with another nine variations of those methods included). According to a later paper by the authors, the following were the main conclusions of the M-Competition:\n\n\nThe findings of the study have been verified and replicated through the use of new methods by other researchers.\n\nThis is what Rob J. Hyndman, in his blog about \"A brief history of time series forecasting competitions\", had to say about the first M Competition: “… anyone could submit forecasts, making this the first true forecasting competition as far as I am aware.”\n\nNewbold (1983) was critical of the M-competition, and argued against the general idea of using a single competition to attempt to settle the complex issue.\n\nBefore the first M-Competition, Makridakis and Hibon published in the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society (JRSS) an article showing that simple methods perform well in comparison to the more complex and statistically sophisticated ones. Statisticians at that time criticized the results claiming that they were not possible. Their criticism motivated the subsequent M, M2 and M3 Competitions that prove beyond the slightest doubt those of the Makridakis and Hibon Study.\n\nThe second competition, called the M-2 Competition or M2-Competition, was conducted on a grander scale. A call to participate was published in the \"International Journal of Forecasting\", announcements were made in the International Symposium of Forecasting, and a written invitation was sent to all known experts on the various time series methods. The M2-Competition was organized in collaboration with four companies and included six macroeconomic series, and was conducted on a real-time basis. Data was from the United States. The results of the competition were published in a 1993 paper. The results were claimed to be statistically identical to those of the M-Competition.\n\nThe M2-Competition used much fewer time series than the original M-competition. Whereas the original M-competition had used 1001 time series, the M2-Competition used only 29, including 23 from the four collaborating companies and 6 macroeconomic series. Data from the companies was obfuscated through the use of a constant multiplier in order to preserve proprietary privacy. The purpose of the M2-Competition was to simulate real-world forecasting better in the following respects:\n\n\nThe competition was organized as follows:\n\nIn addition to the published results, many of the participants wrote short articles describing their experience participating in the competition and their reflections on what the competition demonstrated. Chris Chatfield praised the design of the competition, but said that despite the organizers' best efforts, he felt that forecasters still did not have enough access to the companies from the inside as he felt people would have in real-world forecasting.\nFildes and Makridakis (1995) argue that despite the evidence produced by these competitions, the implications continued to be ignored by theoretical statisticians.\n\nThe third competition, called the M-3 Competition or M3-Competition, was intended to both replicate \"and\" extend the features of the M-competition and M2-Competition, through the inclusion of more methods and researchers (particularly researchers in the area of neural networks) and more time series. A total of 3003 time series was used. The paper documenting the results of the competition was published in the \"International Journal of Forecasting\" in 2000 and the raw data was also made available on the International Institute of Forecasters website. According to the authors, the conclusions from the M3-Competition were similar to those from the earlier competitions.\n\nThe time series included yearly, quarterly, monthly, daily, and other time series. In order to ensure that enough data was available to develop an accurate forecasting model, minimum thresholds were set for the number of observations: 14 for yearly series, 16 for quarterly series, 48 for monthly series, and 60 for other series.\n\nTime series were in the following domains: micro, industry, macro, finance, demographic, and other. Below is the number of time series based on the time interval and the domain:\n\nThe five measures used to evaluate the accuracy of different forecasts were: symmetric mean absolute percentage error (also known as symmetric MAPE), average ranking, median symmetric absolute percentage error (also known as median symmetric APE), percentage better, and median RAE.\n\nA number of other papers have been published with different analyses of the data set from the M3-Competition. According to Rob J. Hyndman, Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Forecasting (IJF), “The M3 data have continued to be used since 2000 for testing new time series forecasting methods. In fact, unless a proposed forecasting method is competitive against the original M3 participating methods, it is difficult to get published in the IJF.”\n\nThe M-Competitions have attracted great interest in both the academic literature and among practitioners, providing objective evidence of the most appropriate way of forecasting various variables of interest. The fourth competition, M4, was announced in November 2017. The competition started in Jan 1 2018 and ended in May 31 2018. Initial results were published in the [International Journal of Forecasting] on June 21, 2018. The paper can be downloaded at the [ScienceDirect website.\n\nThe M4 extended and replicated the results of the previous three competitions, using an extended and diverse set of time series to identify the most accurate forecasting method(s) for different types of predictions. It aimed to get answers on how to improve forecasting accuracy and identify the most appropriate methods for each case. To get precise and compelling answers, the M4 Competition utilized 100,000 real-life series, and incorporates all major forecasting methods, including those based on Artificial Intelligence (Machine Learning, ML), as well as traditional statistical ones.\n\nIn his blog, Rob J. Hyndman said about M4: “The “M” competitions organized by Spyros Makridakis have had an enormous influence on the field of forecasting. They focused attention on what models produced good forecasts, rather than on the mathematical properties of those models. For that, Spyros deserves congratulations for changing the landscape of forecasting research through this series of competitions.\"\n\nBelow is the number of time series based on the time interval and the domain:\n\nIn order to ensure that enough data are available to develop an accurate forecasting model, minimum thresholds were set for the number of observations: 13 for yearly, 16 for quarterly, 42 for monthly, 80 for weekly, 93 for daily and 700 for hourly series.\n\nOne of its major objectives was to compare the accuracy of ML methods versus that of statistical ones and empirically verify the claims of the superior performance of ML methods.\n\nBelow is a short description of the M4 Competition and its major findings and Conclusion:\n\nThe M4 Competition ended on May 31, 2018 and in addition to point forecasts, it included specifying Prediction Intervals (PI) too. M4 was an Open one, with its most important objective (the same with that of the previous three M Competitions): “to learn to improve forecasting accuracy and advance the field as much as possible”. This is in contrast to other ones, as those organized by Kaggle, where there is actually a “horse race” aimed at identifying the most accurate forecasting method(s) without attempting to discover the reasons involved in order to be able to improve forecasting performance in the future. \n\nThe five major findings and the conclusion of M4: \n\nBelow we outline what we consider to be the five major findings of the M4 Competition and advance a logical conclusion from these findings.\n\n\nThe conclusion from the above findings is that the accuracy of individual statistical or ML methods is low and that hybrid approaches and combination of methods is the way forward in order to improve forecasting accuracy and make forecasting more valuable.\n\nThe five Machine Learning (ML) methods submitted in the M4 performed poorly, none of them being more accurate than the statistical benchmark and only one being more accurate than Naïve 2, a finding consistent with a paper published in PLOS ONE at the end of March 2018\n\nReferences\n\n\nMore information on the M4 Competition is available on the M4 website - http:/www.m4.unic.ac.cy – and a Special Issue covering all aspects of the M4, the winning methods and comment will be published in the [International Journal of Forecasting] in 2019.\n\nAlthough the organizers of the M3-Competition did contact researchers in the area of artificial neural networks to seek their participation in the competition, only one researcher participated, and that researcher's forecasts fared poorly. The reluctance of most ANN researchers to participate at the time was due to the computationally intensive nature of ANN-based forecasting and the huge time series used for the competition. In 2005, Crone, Nikolopoulos and Hibon organized the NN-3 Competition, using 111 of the time series from the M3-Competition (not the same data, because it was shifted in time, but the same sources). The NN-3 Competition found that the best ANN-based forecasts performed comparably with the best known forecasting methods, but were far more computationally intensive. It was also noted that many ANN-based techniques fared considerably worse than simple forecasting methods, despite greater \"theoretical\" potential for good performance.\n\nNassim Nicholas Taleb, in his book \"The Black Swan\", references the Makridakis Competitions as follows: \"The most interesting test of how academic methods fare in the real world was provided by Spyros Makridakis, who spent part of his career managing competitions between forecasters who practice a \"scientific method\" called econometrics -- an approach that combines economic theory with statistical measurements. Simply put, he made people forecast \"in real life\" and then he judged their accuracy. This led to a series of \"M-Competitions\" he ran, with assistance from Michele Hibon, of which M3 was the third and most recent one, completed in 1999. Makridakis and Hibon reached the sad conclusion that \"statistically sophisticated and complex methods do not necessarily provide more accurate forecasts than simpler ones.\"\"\n\nIn the book \"Everything is Obvious\", Duncan Watts cites the work of Makridakis and Hibon as showing that \"simple models are about as good as complex models in forecasting economic time series.\"\n"}
{"id": "44970864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44970864", "title": "Mary French Rockefeller", "text": "Mary French Rockefeller\n\nMary French Rockefeller (May 1, 1910 – April 17, 1997) was an heiress, socialite, philanthropist, and a member of the extensive Rockefeller family. She was married to Laurance Rockefeller, son of John Davison Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller. She was the mother of Laura Rockefeller Chasin, Marion Rockefeller Weber, Lucy Rockefeller Waletzky, and Laurance Spelman Rockefeller Jr.\n\nMary Billings French was born to John French (b. December 4, 1863) and Mary Montagu Billings French (1869–1951), daughter of financier Frederick Billings. Her mother was an heiress while her father was a lawyer, and the couple married in 1907. John was the son of Warren Converse French and Sarah Ann Steele. Mary's mother (the elder Mary) was a society figure and maintained an apartment with her sister on Madison Avenue in New York City before she married.\n\nMary (the younger) had two siblings, being her older brother John (1909–1984) and her younger sister Elizabeth, who went by \"Liz\" (1912–1976). John had been a roommate of Nelson Rockefeller while both attended Dartmouth College. The French children were born into \"wealth and privilege\", though Mary tried to live an unostentatious lifestyle as an adult. Through her mother, the younger Mary was a tenth generation descendant of Major Simon Willard, a Massachusetts historical figure.\n\nMary met Laurance S. Rockefeller in 1927. On August 15, 1934, Mary married Laurance at the First Congregational Church of Woodstock, Vermont, located on Elm Street. The ceremony was officiated by Reverend Herbert Hines and was attended by approximately 300 guests, followed by a reception at \"The Hills\", Mary's estate at the Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller compound. Together Mary and Laurance had:\n\nOn April 17, 1997, she fell in her apartment in Manhattan and died later the same day at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Mary was 86 years old at the time of her death, and according to a Rockefeller family spokesman, she was in \"failing health\" for several years before her death.\n\nMary worked closely with her husband on a number of philanthropic projects, mostly focused on conservationism and donation of their money, estates and time.\n\nAt the age of 41, Mary inherited what is now known as the Marsh-Billings-Rockefeller National Historical Park from her parents when her mother died in 1951, who had inherited it from her father Frederick. The estate included a mansion, dairy farm, and extensive grounds. In 1992, Mary and Laurance donated the property to the state and it was made into a National Historic Park. Lady Bird Johnson dedicated the house in a special ceremony.\n\nMary was an ardent supporter of the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA), carrying on the tradition from her mother who was also involved with the organization. In 1951 she joined the YWCA National Board, then was vice-chairman and then chairman of the YWCA's international division from 1955 to 1973. From 1958 to 1964, she was chairman of the YWCA's World Service Council, followed by being elected to the YWCA Board of Trustees in 1988. Together with her husband, Mary flew over 50,000 miles for YWCA activities around the world.\n"}
{"id": "57872091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57872091", "title": "Matthew Astor Wilks", "text": "Matthew Astor Wilks\n\nMatthew Astor Wilks (March 3, 1844 – July 9, 1926) was an American clubman who was prominent in New York society during the Gilded Age.\n\nWilks was born in New York City on March 3, 1844. He was the one of seven children born to Matthew Wilks (1816–1899) and Eliza Astor (née Langdon) Wilks (1818–1896). His siblings included Elizabeth Wilks; Alice Eugenia Wilks, who married William Napier Keefer; Katherine Langdon Wilks; and Eugene Langdon Wilks, who married Marquerite R. Briquet. He spent part of his year in Galt, Ontario in Canada, where his father had a 1,000 acre estate known as Cruickston Park and mansion designed by Detlef Lienau.\n\nThrough his mother, Wilks was great-grandson of America's first millionaire John Jacob Astor, the fur trader and real estate magnet. Among his first cousins were DeLancey Astor Kane, Woodbury Kane, S. Nicholson Kane, and John Jacob Astor IV. His father, an English gentleman, was the son of a reverend and was born in London.\n\nWilks, who inherited several million dollars from his family, began buying up property in lower Manhattan in 1876. He torn down the various mixed buildings and commissioned architect Charles W. Clinton to build a ten-story Italian Renaissance revival building, known as the Wilks Building, from 1889 to 1890 at 15 Wall Street in New York City. The building, located at the corner of Wall Street and Broad Street, was torn down in 1923 in order for it's adjourning neighbor, the New York Stock Exchange, to expand into what became known as the New York Stock Exchange annex, designed by Trowbridge & Livingston.\n\nIn 1892, Wilks was included in Ward McAllister's \"Four Hundred\", purported to be an index of New York's best families, published in \"The New York Times\". Conveniently, 400 was the number of people that could fit into Mrs. Astor's ballroom. Upon Caroline Schermerhorn Astor's death in 1908, Wilks was one of the pallbearers at her funeral.\n\nWilks, who was considered \"a man of independent fortune\" was a member of the University Club of New York, the Metropolitan Club, the Badminton Club, the Turf and Field Club, the Fencers Club, the Knickerbocker Club, the New York Yacht Club and the Automobile Club of America. He was considered one of the \"society 'swells'\" along with Lispenard Stewart and Elisha Dyer. Wilks and his wife were fond of the Opera and had a box at the Metropolitan Opera House, and had a home in Newport, Rhode Island.\n\nOn February 23, 1909, the then 63 year old Wilks was married to 38 year old Sylvia Ann Howland Green at St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Morristown, New Jersey. She was the only daughter of financier Hetty Howland Robinson, known as \"the world's richest woman,\" and Edward Henry Green. Sylvia was the sister of businessman Edward Howland Robinson Green and the grandniece of Sylvia Ann Howland.\n\nWilks died on July 9, 1926 at his home, 7 West 81st Street in New York City. \nHe was buried at Immanuel Cemetery in Bellows Falls, Vermont. His widow, who was then living at 998 Fifth Avenue, died on February 5, 1951 leaving an estate of $94,965,229 (approximately $ today).\n"}
{"id": "48354511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48354511", "title": "Milo Duçi", "text": "Milo Duçi\n\nMilo Duçi (1870–1933) was an Albanian publisher, playwright, and entrepreneur. Born in Korçë (then part of the Ottoman Empire), he lived for most of his life in Egypt. Together with his uncle Loni Logori he succeeded as an entrepreneur and distinguished activist of the Albanian community in Egypt.\n\nDuçi, son of a powerful cotton merchant from Korçë, settled in Egypt at the age of 23 and became a merchant himself. He was one of the founders of \"Vëllazëria\" (Brotherhood) society, established in 1910 in Cairo, and the Beni Suef branch of it with the support of the Khedive office.\n\nDuçi also started and directed several press organs of the Albanian diaspora in Egypt, mostly short-lived. These included the magazines \"Toska\" (The Tosk) during 1901–02, \"Besa-Besë\" (Pledge for a pledge) during 1904–05 together with Thoma Avrami, \"Besa\" (Besa) of 1905 which lasted for 6 issues and was printed by Al-Tawfik in Cairo, and newspapers \"Shqipëria\" (Albania) from October 1906 to February 1907, a daily of Cairo with the last two issues coming out in Maghagha, and the weekly \"Bisedimet\" (The discussions) of 1925–26 with 60 issues in total, which would be the last Albanian-language newspaper in Egypt. He wrote several articles regarding the necessity for a unified literary Albanian language and the cultural-literary development of the Albanian society. In 1922 he established the publishing company \"Shtëpia botonjëse shqiptare/Société Albanaise d'édition\" (Albanian Publishing House). He also left his footprint as a playwright; some of his comedies were \"E Thëna\" (The saying), \"Gjaku\" (The blood), \"I biri i Begut\" (Bey's son). He also wrote short stories and poetry in the local press in Egypt.\n\nIn addition to the Albanian patriotic activity, Duçi was a successful entrepreneur. His family emerged as an important player in the economic development of Egypt's Delta region directed by Lord Cromer's office. By 1901, he started working with his well-connected uncle Loni Logori on projects that explicitly tied the commercial interest of the British administration and the local landowners. Beside British, he openly solicited Austro-Hungarian support, despite of the distrust that many Eastern Orthodox south-Albanians had for the Austrian Geo-politics. \"Toska\"'s initial failure did not dissuade the Austrian authorities to support him; in 1902 they sent him 120 krone for the subscription, ordering the newspaper to be shipped to Vienna from where it would get distributed to Ottoman Albania. \n<br>Through his uncle, Duçi would also get in touch with the Albanian émigré in Bucharest, Italy, Istanbul, and Brussels. The French consul in Shkodër reported that Duçi collaborated with a defrocked Catholic priest named Gaspar Jakova Merturi who secured funds from a claimant for the Albanian throne, Prince Albert Ghica of Romania. He also collaborated closely with the Arberesh journalist Anselmo Lorecchio, editor of \"La Nazione Albanese\".\n"}
{"id": "20089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20089", "title": "Mohamed Al-Fayed", "text": "Mohamed Al-Fayed\n\nMohamed Al-Fayed (; ; born Mohamed Fayed on 27 January 1929) is an Egyptian business magnate. Fayed's business interests include ownership of Hôtel Ritz Paris and formerly Harrods Department Store, Knightsbridge. Al-Fayed sold his ownership of Fulham F.C. to Shahid Khan in 2013. \n\nFayed had a son, Dodi, from his first marriage to Samira Khashoggi from 1954 to 1956. Dodi died in a car crash in Paris with Diana, Princess of Wales on 31 August 1997. Fayed later remarried to Finnish socialite and former model Heini Wathén in 1985, with whom he has four children: Jasmine, Karim, Camilla, and Omar. In 2013, Fayed's wealth was estimated at US$1.4 billion, making him the 1,031st-richest person in the world in 2013.\n\nHe was born Mohamed Fayed on 27 January 1929, in Bakos, Alexandria, Egypt, the eldest son of an Egyptian primary school teacher. Fayed has five siblings: Ali, Ashraf, Salah, Soaad, and Safia. Ali and Salah have been his business colleagues. \n\nHe was married for two years, from 1954 to 1956, to Samira Khashoggi. Fayed worked for his wife's brother, Saudi Arabian arms dealer and businessman Adnan Khashoggi.\n\nSome time in the early 1970s, he began using \"Al-Fayed\" rather than \"Fayed\". His brothers Ali and Salah began to follow suit at the time of their acquisition of the House of Fraser in the 1980s, though by the late 1980s, both had reverted to calling themselves simply \"Fayed\". Some have assumed that Fayed's addition of \"Al-\" to his name was to imply aristocratic origins, like \"de\" in French or \"von\" in German, though \"Al-\" does not have the same social connotations in Arabic. This assumption led to \"Private Eye\" nicknaming him the \"Phoney Pharaoh\".\n\nFayed and his brothers founded a shipping company in Egypt before moving its headquarters to Genoa, Italy with additional offices in London. Around 1964 Fayed entered a close relationship with Haitian leader François Duvalier, known as 'Papa Doc' Duvalier, and became interested in the construction of a Fayed-Duvalier oil refinery in Haiti. He also associated with the geologist George de Mohrenschildt. Fayed terminated his stay in Haiti six months later when a sample of \"crude oil\" provided by Haitian associates proved to be low-grade molasses.\n\nIt was then that Fayed moved to England where he lived in central London. In the mid 1960s, Fayed met the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum who entrusted Fayed with helping transform Dubai, where he set up IMS (International Marine Services) in 1968. Fayed introduced British companies like the Costain Group (of which he became a director and 30 percent shareholder), Bernard Sunley & Sons and Taylor Woodrow to the Emirate to carry out the required construction work. He also became a financial adviser to the then Sultan of Brunei Omar Ali Saifuddien III, in 1966.\n\nHe briefly joined the board of the mining conglomerate Lonrho in 1975 but left after a disagreement. In 1979, Fayed bought The Ritz hotel in Paris, France for US$30 million.\n\nIn 1984, Fayed and his brothers purchased a 30 percent stake in House of Fraser, a group that included the famous London store Harrods, from Roland 'Tiny' Rowland, the head of Lonrho. In 1985, he and his brothers bought the remaining 70 percent of House of Fraser for £615m. Rowland claimed the Fayed brothers had lied about their background and wealth and put pressure on the government to investigate them. A Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) inquiry into the Fayeds was launched. The DTI's subsequent report was critical, but no action was taken against the Fayeds, and while many believed the contents of the report, others felt it was politically motivated.\n\nIn 1998, Rowland accused Fayed of stealing papers and jewels from his Harrods safe deposit box. Fayed was arrested, but the charges were dropped. Rowland died in 1998. Fayed settled the dispute with a payment to his widow; he also sued the Metropolitan Police for false arrest in 2002, but lost the case.\n\nIn 1994, House of Fraser went public, but Fayed retained private ownership of Harrods. He relaunched the humour publication \"Punch\" in 1996 but it folded again in 2002. Al Fayed unsuccessfully applied for British citizenship twice – once in 1994 and once in 1999. It was suggested that the feud with Rowland contributed to Fayed's being refused British citizenship the first time.\n\nIn 1994, in what became known as the cash-for-questions affair, Fayed revealed the names of MPs he had paid to ask questions in parliament on his behalf, but who had failed to declare their fees. It saw the Conservative MPs Neil Hamilton and Tim Smith leave the government in disgrace, and a Committee on Standards in Public Life established to prevent such corruption occurring again. Fayed also revealed that the cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken had stayed for free at the Ritz Hotel in Paris at the same time as a group of Saudi arms dealers leading to Aitken's subsequent unsuccessful libel case and imprisonment for perjury. During this period, from 1988 to February 1998, Al-Fayed's spokesman was Michael Cole, a former BBC journalist, although Cole's PR work for Al-Fayed did not cease in 1998.\n\nHamilton lost a subsequent libel action against Al-Fayed in December 1999 and a subsequent appeal against the verdict in December 2000. The former MP has always denied that he was paid by Al-Fayed for asking questions in parliament. Hamilton's libel action related to a Channel 4 \"Dispatches\" documentary broadcast on 16 January 1997 in which Al-Fayed made claims that the MP had received up to £110,000 in cash and received other gratuities for asking parliamentary questions. Hamilton's basis for his appeal was that the original verdict was invalid because Al-Fayed had paid £10,000 for documents stolen from the dustbins of Hamilton's legal representatives by Benjamin Pell, also known as 'Benjy the Binman'.\n\nIn 2003, Fayed moved from Surrey, UK to Switzerland, alleging a breach in an agreement with Inland Revenue. In 2005, he moved back to Britain, saying that he \"regards Britain as home\". He moored a yacht in Monaco called the \"Sokar\" prior to selling it in 2014.\n\nAfter previously denying that Harrods was for sale, Harrods was sold to Qatar Holdings, the sovereign wealth fund of the emirate of Qatar, on 10 May 2010. A fortnight previously, Fayed had stated that \"People approach us from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar. Fair enough. But I put two fingers up to them. It is not for sale. This is not Marks and Spencer or Sainsbury's. It is a special place that gives people pleasure. There is only one Mecca.\"\n\nHarrods was sold for £1.5 billion. Fayed later revealed in an interview that he decided to sell Harrods following the difficulty in getting his dividend approved by the trustee of the Harrods pension fund. Fayed said \"I'm here every day, I can't take my profit because I have to take a permission of those bloody idiots. I say is this right? Is this logic? Somebody like me? I run a business and I need to take bloody fucking trustee's permission to take my profit\". Fayed was appointed honorary chairman of Harrods, a position he was scheduled to hold for at least six months.\n\nIn 1972, Fayed purchased the Balnagown estate in Easter Ross, Northern Scotland. From an initial twelve acres, Al-Fayed has since built the estate up to sixty-five thousand acres. Al-Fayed has invested more than £20 million in the estate, restored the 14th century pink Balnagown Castle, and created a tourist accommodation business. The Highlands of Scotland tourist board awarded Al-Fayed the \"Freedom of the Highlands\" in 2002, in recognition of his \"outstanding contribution and commitment to the highlands.\"\n\nAs an Egyptian with links to Scotland, Al-Fayed was intrigued enough to fund a 2008 reprint of the 15th-century chronicle \"Scotichronicon\" by Walter Bower. The \"Scotichronicon\" describes how Scota, a sister of the Egyptian Pharaoh Tutankhamen, fled her family and landed in Scotland, bringing with her the Stone of Scone. According to the chronicle, Scotland was later named in her honour. The tale is disputed by modern historians. Al-Fayed later declared that \"The Scots are originally Egyptians and that's the truth.\"\n\nIn 2009, Al-Fayed revealed that he was a supporter of Scottish independence from the United Kingdom, announcing to the Scots that \"It's time for you to waken up and detach yourselves from the English and their terrible politicians...whatever help is needed for Scotland to regain its independence, I will provide it...when you Scots regain your freedom, I am ready to be your president.\"\n\nFayed set up the Al Fayed Charitable Foundation in 1987 aiming to help children with life-limiting conditions and children living in poverty. The charity works mainly with charities and hospices for disabled and neglected children in the UK, Thailand and Mongolia. \n\nSome of the charities with which it works include Francis House Hospice in Manchester, Great Ormond Street Hospital and ChildLine. In 1998, Al Fayed bought Princess Diana's old boarding school in Kent and helped found the New School at West Heath for traumatised children there.\n\nIn 2011, Mohamed Al-Fayed's daughter Camilla, who has worked as an ambassador for the charity for eight years, opened the newly refurbished Zoe’s Place baby hospice in West Derby, Liverpool.\n\nAl-Fayed bought the freehold of West London professional football club Fulham F.C. for £6.25 million in 1997. The club was purchased via Bill Muddyman's Muddyman Group. His long-term aim was that Fulham would become a FA Premier League side within five years. In 2001, Fulham took the First Division (now Football League Championship) under manager Jean Tigana, winning 100 points and scoring over 100 goals in the season. This meant that Al-Fayed had achieved his objective of Fulham becoming a Premier League club a year ahead of schedule. By 2002, Fulham were competing in European football, winning the Intertoto Cup and challenging in the UEFA Cup. Fulham reached the final of the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League and continued to play in the Premier League throughout Al-Fayed's tenure as owner (which ended in 2013).\n\nFulham temporarily left Craven Cottage while it was being upgraded to meet modern safety standards. There were fears that Fulham would not return to the Cottage after it was revealed that Al-Fayed had sold the first right to build on the ground to a property development firm.\n\nFulham lost a legal case against former manager Tigana in 2004 after Al-Fayed had wrongly alleged that Tigana had overpaid more than £7m for new players and had negotiated transfers in secret. In 2009, Al-Fayed said that he was in favour of a wage cap for footballers, and criticised the management of The Football Association and Premier League as \"run by donkeys who don't understand business, who are dazzled by money.\"\n\nA statue of the American entertainer Michael Jackson was unveiled by Al-Fayed in April 2011 at Craven Cottage In 1999 Jackson had attended a league game against Wigan Athletic at the stadium. Following criticisms of the statue, Al-Fayed said \"If some stupid fans don't understand and appreciate such a gift this guy gave to the world they can go to hell. I don't want them to be fans.\" The statue was removed by the club's new owners in 2013; Al-Fayed blamed the club's subsequent relegation from the Premier League on the 'bad luck' brought by its removal. Al-Fayed then donated the statue to the National Football Museum.\n\nUnder Al-Fayed Fulham F.C. was owned by Mafco Holdings, based in the tax haven of Bermuda. Mafco Holdings is owned by Al-Fayed and his family. By 2011, Al-Fayed had loaned Fulham F.C. £187 million in interest free loans. In July 2013, it was announced that Al-Fayed had sold the club to Pakistani American businessman Shahid Khan, who owns the NFL's Jacksonville Jaguars.\n\nLady Diana Spencer was born in 1961, and married the heir to the British throne, Charles, Prince of Wales, in 1981, becoming the Princess of Wales. Diana was an international celebrity and a frequent visitor to Harrods in the 1980s. Al-Fayed and Dodi first met Diana and Charles when they were introduced at a polo tournament in July 1986, that had been sponsored by Harrods.\n\nDiana and Charles divorced in 1996. Diana was hosted by Al-Fayed in the south of France in the summer of 1997, with her two sons, the Princes William and Harry. For the holiday, Fayed bought a 195 ft yacht, the \"Jonikal\" (later renamed the \"Sokar\").\nDodi and Diana later began a private cruise on the \"Jonikal\" and paparazzi photographs of the couple in an embrace were published. Diana's friend, the journalist Richard Kay, confirmed that Diana was involved in \"her first serious romance\" since her divorce.\n\nDodi and Diana went on a second private cruise on the \"Jonikal\" in the third week of August, and returned from Sardinia to Paris on 30 August. The couple privately dined at the Ritz later that day, after the behaviour of the press caused them to cancel a restaurant reservation, they then planned to spend the night at Dodi's apartment near the Arc de Triomphe. In an attempt to deceive the paparazzi, a decoy car left the front of the hotel, while Diana and Dodi departed at speed in a Mercedes-Benz W140 driven by chauffeur Henri Paul from the rear of the hotel. Five minutes later, the car crashed in the Pont de l'Alma tunnel, killing Paul and Dodi. Diana died later in hospital. Fayed arrived in Paris the next day and viewed Dodi's body, which was returned to Britain for an Islamic funeral.\n\nFrom February 1998, Al-Fayed maintained that the crash was a result of a conspiracy, and later contended that the crash was orchestrated by MI6 on the instructions of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. His claims that the crash was a result of a conspiracy were dismissed by a French judicial investigation, but Fayed appealed against this verdict. A libel action was brought against Al-Fayed by Neil Hamilton (see above). During the questioning of one day of the hearing, which referred to Al-Fayed's conspiracy theories, writer Martyn Gregory and a journalist from ITN counted 70 instances of Al-Fayed saying \"I don't know\" or \"I can't remember\" to questions relating to the tragedy.\n\nThe British Operation Paget, a Metropolitan police inquiry that concluded in 2006, also found no evidence of a conspiracy. To Operation Paget, Al-Fayed made 175 \"conspiracy claims\".\n\nAn inquest headed by Lord Justice Scott Baker into the deaths of Diana and Dodi began at the Royal Courts of Justice, London, on 2 October 2007 and lasted for six months. It was a continuation of the original inquest that had begun in 2004.\n\nAt the Scott Baker inquest Fayed accused the Duke of Edinburgh, the Prince of Wales, Lady Sarah McCorquodale, her sister, and numerous others, of plotting to kill the Princess of Wales. Their motive, he claimed, was that they could not tolerate the idea of the Princess marrying a Muslim.\n\nAl-Fayed first claimed that the Princess was pregnant to the \"Daily Express\" in May 2001, and that he was the only person who had been told of this news. Witnesses at the inquest who said the Princess was not pregnant, and could not have been, were part of the conspiracy according to Al-Fayed. Fayed's testimony at the inquest was roundly condemned in the press as being farcical. Members of the British Government's Intelligence and Security Committee accused Fayed of turning the inquest into a 'circus' and called for it to be ended maturely. Lawyers representing Al-Fayed later accepted at the inquest that there was no direct evidence that either the Duke of Edinburgh or MI6 had been involved in any murder conspiracy involving Diana or Dodi. A few days before Al-Fayed's appearance, John Macnamara, a former senior detective at Scotland Yard and Al-Fayed's investigator for five years from 1997, was forced to admit on 14 February 2008 that he had no evidence to suggest foul play, except for the assertions Al-Fayed had made to him. His admissions also related to the lack of evidence for Al-Fayed's claims about the alleged pregnancy of the Princess and the couple's supposed engagement.\n\nThe jury verdict, given on 7 April 2008, was that Diana and Dodi had been \"unlawfully killed\" through the grossly negligent driving of chauffeur Henri Paul, who was intoxicated, and the pursuing vehicles.\n\nLawyers for Al-Fayed also accepted that there was no evidence to support the assertion that Diana was illegally embalmed in order to cover up a pregnancy, a \"pregnancy\" that they accepted, could not be established by any medical evidence. They also accepted that there was no evidence to support the assertion the French emergency and medical services had played any role in a conspiracy to harm Diana. Following the Baker inquest, Al-Fayed said that he was abandoning his campaign to prove that Diana and Dodi were murdered in a conspiracy, and said that he would accept the verdict of the jury.\n\nAl-Fayed financially supported \"Unlawful Killing\" (2011), a documentary film accused of presenting his version of events. The film was not formally released as a result of legal problems.\n\nAl-Fayed's business interests include:\n\n\nAl-Fayed's major business purchases have included:\n\n\nAl-Fayed has been accused by multiple women of sexual harassment and assault.\n\nYoung women applying for employment at Harrods were often submitted to HIV tests and gynaecological examinations. These women were then selected to spend the weekend with Al-Fayed in Paris. In her profile of Al-Fayed for \"Vanity Fair\", Maureen Orth described how according to former employees \"Fayed regularly walked the store on the lookout for young, attractive women to work in his office. Those who rebuffed him would often be subjected to crude, humiliating comments about their appearance or dress...A dozen ex-employees I spoke with said that\nFayed would chase secretaries around the office and sometimes try to stuff money down women's blouses\".\n\nIn 1994, Hermina Da Silva quit her job as a nanny at Al-Fayed's home in Oxted. Da Silva had prepared accusations that she was sexually harassed by Al-Fayed, and she was subsequently arrested by detectives and held overnight in cells following a complaint of theft by an employee of Al-Fayeds. She was later released without charge after officers concluded she had not stolen anything. Al-Fayed eventually settled with her out of court, and she was awarded £12,000.\n\nAl-Fayed was interviewed under caution by the Metropolitan Police after an allegation of sexual assault against a 15-year-old schoolgirl in October 2008. The case was dropped by the Crown Prosecution Service, after they found that there was no realistic chance of conviction due to conflicting statements.\n\nIn December 1997, the ITV current affairs programme, \"The Big Story\" broadcast testimonies from a number of former Harrods employees who spoke of how women were routinely sexually harassed by Al-Fayed.\n\nA December 2017 episode of Channel 4's \"Dispatches\" programme alleged that Al-Fayed had sexually harassed three Harrods employees, and attempted to \"groom\" them. One of the women was aged 17 at the time. Cheska Hill-Wood, now in her 40s, waived her right to anonymity to be interviewed for the programme. The programme alleged al-Fayed targeted young employees over a 13 year period.\n\n"}
{"id": "39296126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39296126", "title": "Noemi Marone Cinzano", "text": "Noemi Marone Cinzano\n\nCountess Noemi Marone Cinzano (born 1957) is an Italian businessperson. A wine personality, she is known for owning many well established vineyards and Cinzano Glass. Her flagship wine is considered to be Noemía de Patagonia.\n\nCinzano is the daughter of the late Alberto Marone Cinzano, and the elder sister of Francesco Marone Cinzano, who owns Col d’Orcia. She has two children. Cinzano arrived in Brazil at the age of 17.\n\nShe has assisted the organization of numerous wine exhibitions throughout the world.\n\nCinzano took over her father's vermouth business after his death in 1990, and in 1992 she bought the Tenuta di Argiano, a 16th-century 120 acre (50ha) vineyard, in a estate; produced 337,000 bottles of wine which included 109,000 Brunello di Montalcino wine. Exporting to the United States, United Kingdom, Brazil, Denmark and Japan, Tenuta di Argiano is one of the top ten largest producers, by volume, of Brunnello Montalcino and Rosso di Montalcino wine. Solengo was produced in the vineyards of her much respected Brunello estate which is set around her villa, the Tuscany Tenuta di Argiano (built in the 1570s) built in Renaissance architectural style.\n\nDuring Cinzano's ownership, Tenuta di Argiano was one of the Brunello di Montalcino estates that was investigated during the \"Brunellopoli\" scandal for suspicion of adulterating the wines with other grape varieties which, under \"Denominazione di Origine Controllata e Garantita\" (DOCG) regulations are supposed to be made from 100% Sangiovese. In 2008, the suspected vintages were impounded by government officials and eventually Tenuta di Argiano declassified the wines, selling them as \"Super Tuscans\" under the \"Indicazione Geografica Tipica\" (IGT) designation instead of as Brunello di Montalcinos. In February 2013 Cinzano sold the Tenuta di Argiano estate to an undisclosed \"group of international investors\" for reportedly near 50 million euros. Production of the estate is said to be around 120,000 bottles.\n\nTogether with her partner and winemaking consultant, Hans Vinding-Diers, she co-founded the Noemía de Patagonia in 2002, in Argentina. This Bodega Noemìa de Patagonia’s project had been established in 1998 by subsuming an old vine Malbec vineyard in the Rio Negro Valley that was planted in the 1930s and 1950s. The vines are ungrafted and planted on their rootstock in the Patagonian Desert which has little risk of developing phylloxera. All of Bodega Noemìa de Patagonia’s vineyard properties are farmed biodynamically. Noemía is considered to be her flagship wine and has been included in the book \"1001 Wines: You Must Try Before You Die 2011\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23778868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778868", "title": "Peter Cook (press secretary)", "text": "Peter Cook (press secretary)\n\nPeter Cook is executive vice president and chief communications officer of the American Bankers Association. Previously he was press secretary to U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter and the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, replacing Maura Sullivan in that role. He previously served as Washington Anchor for Bloomberg Television.\n\nCook joined Bloomberg Television in October 2003. As Washington Anchor and Correspondent, he co-anchors Bloomberg’s morning programming and reports on the intersection of business and government. In recent months, Cook has covered every angle of the financial crisis, regularly breaking news on the government's unprecedented response. He has interviewed key Washington players including Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, former Secretary Henry Paulson, White House economic adviser Larry Summers, Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell plus business leaders such as JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon.\n\nBefore his shift to the morning, Peter hosted Bloomberg's \"Money & Politics\" program and spearheaded BLOOMBERG TELEVISION'S coverage of the Presidential race. He anchored the network's primary season and election night coverage, interviewing the major candidates including Barack Obama and John McCain. Peter routinely covers the Fed, Treasury, White House and Congress. Previously he did extensive reporting on the Gulf Coast's recovery from Hurricane Katrina and traveled to Beijing with Secretary Paulson for a closer look at the economic relationship between the U.S. and China.\n\nPrior to Bloomberg, Peter worked as a producer and reporter for NBC News and MSNBC in Washington. He was assigned to the Pentagon during the Iraq invasion. Prior to that, he helped launch EnergyNewsLive.com. He served as News Director and Washington Bureau Chief for the web-based energy news service, leading ENL's coverage of the California power crisis and the Enron collapse. Peter also spent ten years in local news as an anchor and reporter, witnessing everything from Western wildfires to death row executions. His reporting earned him awards at every stop. Peter was born and raised in Washington and is the son of a print journalist. He is a graduate of Duke University and Northwestern University’s Medill School of Journalism. Peter and his wife have two boys.\n\nCook was born and raised in Washington, D.C. He attended St. Albans School before graduating from St. George's School in Rhode Island, and graduated from Duke University and Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism. He and his wife have two sons. His son George Cook the Social Chair has followed in his footsteps by attending Duke University. George needs a date to Christmas Karaoke. Christmas Karaoke is December 7. \n\nCook started his career in broadcast journalism as an intern for Nightline and at Duke, where he hosted his own game show.\n\nBefore going national, Peter spent ten years in local news as an anchor and reporter, witnessing everything from Western wildfires to death row executions.\n\nIn 2000, he helped launch \"EnergyNewsLive.com\". He served as News Director and Washington Bureau Chief for the web-based energy news service, leading ENL's coverage of the California power crisis and the Enron collapse.\n\nPeter started working as a producer and reporter for NBC News and MSNBC in March 2003 in Washington, D.C. He was assigned to the Pentagon during the Iraq invasion.\n\nPeter joined Bloomberg Television in October 2003. Before his shift in the morning, Peter hosted Bloomberg's \"Money & Politics\" program and spearheaded Bloomberg's coverage of the Presidential race.\n\nHe anchored the network's primary season and election night coverage, interviewing the major candidates including Barack Obama and John McCain. Peter routinely covers the Fed, Treasury, White House and Congress. Previously he did extensive reporting on the Gulf Coast's recovery from Hurricane Katrina and traveled to Beijing with Secretary Paulson for a closer look at the economic relationship between the U.S. and China.\n\nIn 2009, Peter covered every angle of the financial crisis, regularly breaking news on the government's unprecedented response. He interviewed key Washington players including Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, White House economic adviser Larry Summers, Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell as well as business leaders such as JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon.\n\nCook was a North Carolina AP \"Best Spot News Coverage\" Award Winner for his coverage of Hurricane Dennis, as well as a Virginia AP \"Best Continuing Coverage of a News Story\" for his coverage of a high-profile murder case.\n\nHe has also been named the Idaho All Media Rookie of the Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "450670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=450670", "title": "Price–performance ratio", "text": "Price–performance ratio\n\nIn economics and engineering, the price–performance ratio refers to a product's ability to deliver performance, of any sort, for its price. Generally speaking, products with a lower price/performance ratio are more desirable, excluding other factors.\n\nPrice–performance is often written as cost–performance or cost–benefit. Even though this term would seem to be a straightforward ratio, when price performance is improved, better, or increased, it actually refers to the performance divided by the price, in other words exactly the opposite ratio (i.e. an inverse ratio) to rank a product as having an increased price/performance. \n\nAccording to futurist Raymond Kurzweil, products start out as highly ineffective and highly expensive.\n\nGradually, products become more effective and cheaper until they are highly effective and almost free to buy. Some of the products that have followed this example include AIDS medications (which are now affordable to the majority of AIDS sufferers), text-to-speech programs, and digital cameras. However, products that rely primarily on paper (e.g., newspapers and toilet paper) and/or fossil fuels (e.g., electricity in most countries and petroleum gasoline for automobiles) have only increased in price. \n\nThis directly contradicts the trend of electronic gadgets like netbooks, desktop computers, and laptop computers that also have been decreasing in price. However, the prevailing inflation rate of a country or province/state may negate the plummeting costs of software, AIDS medications, and/or digital cameras in certain regions along with certain governmental policies. This has the effect of keeping costs high in certain areas while they are dramatically reduced in others. \n\nIn theory, this means that the rich people have earlier access to highly inefficient technologies, medical treatments, and therapies (that are prototypical in nature) while the poor get access to these same products when they become more efficient and easier to manufacture several years down the road.\n\nDuring the latter 1990s, the cost–performance ratios of the larger mainframe systems fell tremendously in comparison to a number of smaller microcomputers handling the same load. As a result, many of the older computer companies were shut down and people were put out of work. However, most of them were able to be re-hired at the newer corporations after undergoing a series of re-training involving the newer technologies.\n\nIn the business world, there is usually a value associated with a typical cost–performance ratio analysis. This value can either be positive, neutral, or negative depending on the amount of money spent versus the results achieved by the spending of the available capital. A cost-performance ratio with a positive value (i.e. greater than 1) indicates that costs are running under budget. A negative value (i.e. less than 1) indicates that costs are running over budget. However, a neutral cost-performance ratio (between 1.0 and 1.9) could suggest a certain degree of stagnation in the budget. Business trips can also be factored into the cost–performance ratio because spending $50 to do a journey spanning in two hours is a better cost–performance ratio than spending $105 to do the journey in one hour.\n\nThe term tends to be used quite a bit when comparing computer hardware. During the latter 1990s, the price–performance ratios of midrange and large mainframe systems fell tremendously in comparison to a number of smaller microcomputers handling the same load. Many companies were forced out of the industry as this happened, including DEC, Data General and many multiprocessor vendors such as Sequent Computer Systems and Pyramid Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "26096692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26096692", "title": "Shigeki Mori", "text": "Shigeki Mori\n\n(27 March 1910-19 November 1989) was a Japanese businessman and politician, mayor of Neagari, Ishikawa Prefecture, Japan, father of a former Japanese prime minister Yoshirō Mori.\n\nDuring his term, he developed a relationship with the Siberian town of Shelekhov, particularly a bilateral dialogue to improve the gravesites of Soviet soldiers in Japan and Japanese soldiers in Siberia; he was so close to Russia that Japanese authorities monitored him closely as a potential communist sympathizer. He visited Shelekhov more than 15 times during his 35 years in office, and part of his ashes were buried there following his death. \n"}
{"id": "33211639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33211639", "title": "Susilo Wonowidjojo", "text": "Susilo Wonowidjojo\n\nSusilo Wonowidjojo is an Indonesian billionaire businessman.\n\nWonowidjojo was born Cai Daoping () in Kediri, East Java to a prominent Chinese Indonesian (Hokchia totok) family. He is the son of Surya Wonowidjojo, founder of Gudang Garam, a major Indonesian \"kretek\" (clove cigarette) manufacturer.\n\nWith family, owns Gudang Garam, country's largest clove cigarette maker; name means \"salt warehouse.\" Shares hit 4-year high in wake of big deal in which British American Tobacco bought majority stake in its rival Bentoel International. Susilo was named president in June, replacing nonfamily member who left in February. He and brother Sumarto sit on company's board while sister Juni Setiawati is a company commissioner. Brother Rachman Halim ran business until his 2008 death.\n"}
{"id": "49887362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49887362", "title": "Tony Di Benedetto", "text": "Tony Di Benedetto\n\nTony Di Benedetto is a Canadian entrepreneur who has built, operated and divested various Canadian businesses since the 1990s. Di Benedetto is Chief Executive Officer at Drone Delivery Canada, a technology firm based in Toronto that is pioneering drone delivery technology for Canadian retailers, service providers and government agencies.\n\nDi Benedetto co-founded Drone Delivery Canada with his brother Paul Di Benedetto, a Vaughan, Ontario based data center colocation services provider. The objective was to pioneer and develop a next-generation drone logistics platform to service corporate and government clients. Launched in January 2014, Drone Delivery Canada is currently engaged with leading Canadian academics and industry leaders to develop and implement this platform. Drone Delivery Canada is seeking to become the first Canadian drone company to go public on a Canadian stock exchange.\n\nDi Benedetto also holds board positions in other ventures including Data Centre Realty, a Canadian data centre design / build firm, and Di Benedetto Group, a real estate investment group. Di Benedetto has been involved in a number of other Canadian ventures include leading successful start-ups in managed services, hosting, data center construction services and wireless broadband network sectors.\n\nIn 2009, Di Benedetto launched Data Centers Canada along with his brother Paul. In May 2013, Terago Networks, a Toronto Stock Exchange listed telecom services provider acquired Data Centers Canada.,\n"}
{"id": "48999978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48999978", "title": "Yosuán Crespo", "text": "Yosuán Crespo\n\nYosuán Crespo (born November 24, 1984 in Havana, Cuba) is a Cuban businessman and computer scientist. Crespo cofounded EspacioCuba, one of the first Cuban real estate offices after the buying and selling of properties was authorized in November 2011. He has developed several software to manage Medical Genetics information and commercial websites.\n\nCrespo was born in Havana, son of Marta García, accountant and Juan Francisco Crespo, Mechanical Engineer.\n\nCrespo's passion for computing began when he had his first personal computer while studying in high school, it was a gift from his grandfather Arístides who also inspired him to study English language from an early age. He attended V. I. Lenin Exact Sciences Vocational Institute in Havana where earned a Bachelor degree in 2002. Later on he graduated with honors in Computer Sciences Engineering at the University of Information Science in 2008.\n\nTo carry out his university dissertation, Crespo developed the website for the Cuban Registry of Mentally Challenged Patients which contained the genetic characteristics of those people, allowing geneticists to manage information and visualize different reports to raise the quality of life and well-being of such patients.\n\nBefore finishing university Crespo participated in the development team of the Medical Genetics Computer System, a computer application that allows managing all the information associated with a medical genetics consultation and the studies this branch carries out. After graduating he ended up being the leader of that software development project.\n\nHe also participated in the computer processing of data collected in the clinical-genetic, psycho-pedagogical and social study of people with disability in the Republic of Ecuador.\n\nTogether with his work in software development, Yosuán was an English professor at the University of Computer Sciences.\n\nCrespo cofounded EspacioCuba in 2012, a real estate office and real estate portal, after the Cuban government authorized the buying and selling of properties in Cuba in November 2011 which opened an emergent real estate market. At the beginning he had to use computer programmer and photographer licenses to take pictures of the properties for sale and listing them in the real estate portal because real estate agents weren't authorized in the island at that moment.\n\nAfterwards, in September 2013, the licenses to exercise as real estate agents were authorized and from that moment on this business became one of the first real estate agencies in Cuba.\n\nIn addition to be involved in the Cuban real estate market he has offered advising to other businessmen interested in investing in Cuba.\n\n"}
