{"id": "4709709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4709709", "title": "Abdul", "text": "Abdul\n\nAbdul (also transliterated as Abdal, Abdel, Abdil, Abdol, Abdool, or Abdoul; , ) is the most frequent transliteration of the combination of the Arabic word \"Abd\" (, \"Servant\") and the definite prefix \"al / el\" (, \"the\").\n\nIt is the initial component of many compound names, names made of two words. For example, , \"\", usually spelled \"Abdel Hamid\", \"Abdelhamid\", \"Abd El Hamid\" or \"Abdul Hamid\", which means \"servant of The Praised\" (God).\n\nThe most common use for \"Abdul\" by far, is as part of a male given name, written in English. When written in English, \"Abdul\" is subject to variable spacing, spelling, and hyphenation.\n\nThe meaning of \"Abdul\" literally and normally means \"Slave of\", but English translations also often translate it to: \"Servant of the\".\n\nVariations in spelling are primarily because of the variation in pronunciation. Arabic speakers normally pronounce and transcribe their names of Arabic origin according to their spoken Arabic dialects. Therefore, it is pronounced and written \"Abdel...\" or \"Abd El...\". However, non-Arabic speakers or Arabic speakers may choose to transcribe the name according to the Literary Arabic pronunciation, which is the language of Quran, pronounced as and written \"Abdul...\". For other variations in spelling, see the Arabic grammar section.\n\nIn Arabic language, the word ' means \"slave\" or \"servant\", from the triliteral root ', which is also related to the word \"\", \"worshiping\". Therefore, the word has the positive connotation, in an Islamic sense, of worshiping and praising God, i.e. being a slave to God rather than idols.\n\nEssentially there is no \"Abdul\", without the second part when written in Arabic, thus it appears as a component of many Arabic and specifically Muslim names, where it is the opening of a religiously based name, meaning: \"Servant of...\" with the last component of the name being one of the names of God in Islam, which would form a Muslim Arabic theophoric name. Such as Abdullah simply meaning \"Servant of God\" while \"Abdul Aziz\" means \"Servant of the Almighty\" and so on.\nThe name \"Abdul Masih\", (\"Servant of the Messiah\") is an Arabic Christian equivalent.\n\nIn addition, \"Abdul\" is occasionally, though much more rarely, used in reference to a figure other than God. For example, the Indian name \"Abdul Mughal\", (\"Servant of the Mughal Empire\").\n\n\nWhen followed by a sun letter, the \"l\" in \"al\" (normally pronounced colloquially \"el \") assimilates to the initial consonant of the following noun, resulting in a doubled consonant. For example, \"Abdul Rahman\", would be pronounced in Literary Arabic: Abdur-Rahman . When the definite article is followed by a moon letter, no assimilation takes place.\n\nTherefore, \"Abdul\" is not always used as the opening part of the name; if the second part starts with a sun letter, it may become forms including Abdun, Abdur, Abdus, or Abdush, the vowel in each name, similarly with \"Abdul\", is also open to differing transliterations.\n\n\"Abdul\" does not appear on its own as a male given name when written in Arabic. In some cultures, the theophoric part may appear to be a stand-alone middle name, or surname, thus confusing people as to whether \"Abdul\" is an accepted given name. Often if someone shortens his/her name, he may equally choose the theophoric part or \"Abdul\". However, \"Abdul\" by itself is sometimes used as an independent full given first name outside of Arabic-speaking societies. Sometimes \"Abdul\" is followed by a word describing Muhammad the Prophet, for example \"Abd un Nabi\", which means \"slave/servant of the prophet\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5903130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5903130", "title": "Adailton", "text": "Adailton\n\nAdailton (or Adaílton) is a Brazilian common given name.\n\nIt can refer to the following Brazilian footballers:\n\n"}
{"id": "45637104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45637104", "title": "Andy Serkis filmography", "text": "Andy Serkis filmography\n\nThe following is the list of filmography by the English film and television actor, voice actor, director and producer Andy Serkis.\n"}
{"id": "22824065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22824065", "title": "Ariffin Mohammed", "text": "Ariffin Mohammed\n\nAriffin Mohammed (22 June 1941 – 22 April 2016) was the cult leader and founder of Kerajaan Langit (\"English\": Sky Kingdom), a sect founded by him in Malaysia. His movement had a commune based in Besut, Terengganu, that was demolished by the Malaysian government in August 2005. Ariffin Mohammed, also known as Ayah Pin (\"Ayah\" is a common honorific meaning \"father\"), claimed to have direct contact with the heavens and was believed by his followers to be the reincarnation of Jesus, Buddha, Shiva, and Muhammad. Devotees of Sky Kingdom believe that one day, Ayah Pin will return as the Imam Mahdi. His followers considered him the king of the sky, and the supreme object of devotion for all religions.\n\nAriffin was born in 22 July 1941 into a Muslim Malay family in Beris Kubor Besar, Bachok, Kelantan. In 1953, Ariffin became seriously ill and he alleged that an angel had visited him. Twenty years later the angel returned and Ariffin began his spiritual career. Whether Ariffin was the founder is unclear; during this phase he may have been a follower of Hassan Tuhan (also known as Anak Rimau), apparently another claimant to divinity.\n\nAround the mid-1980s, the Sky Kingdom commune was formed on its present site in Besut. Some reports state that the office of Islamic Affairs declared the group to be deviant at this time. In 1995, Sky Kingdom's signature building projects began, as per divine revelation. Two years later, Local Religious Affairs council (\"Jawatankuasa Fatwa Majlis Agama Islam dan Adat Melayu Terengganu\") issued a fatwa against the group. Around this time, four adherents were arrested for renouncing Islam, but they were later freed on grounds that as ex-Muslims Malaysia's sharia court no longer enjoys jurisdiction over them.\n\nIn 2001, Ariffin renounced Islam. The Sharia court accused him of contravening Section 25 of the \"Enakmen Pentadbiran Hal Ehwal Agama Islam 1986\" (Administration of Islamic Religious Affairs 1986), stating that his teachings and beliefs were false, deviant, corrupting and threatening to the public peace (\"membawa ancaman kepada ketenteraman orang awam serta merosakkan akidah\"). He pleaded guilty to the charge of \"belittling Islam\" (\"menghina Islam\"), and was jailed for 11 months and fined RM 2,900. The Religious Affairs Office hoped that Ariffin's arrest would prevent the movement's growth, however Sky Kingdom continued to attract new followers from among university students and Orang Asli.\n\nOn 18 July 2005, a group of masked vigilantes attacked the group's headquarters, smashing windows and torching buildings. Two days later, 58 followers were arrested, and on 31 July three of Ariffin's four wives were also arrested in Kelantan. Ariffin escaped arrest and remains at large as a fugitive wanted by the Malaysian authorities. Forty-five members face charges of failing to observe the government fatwa (i.e. for continuing to be members of a sect declared as deviant), which carries a fine up to RM 3,000 or two years in prison. One of those arrested faced an additional charge of \"humiliating Islam\" (for claiming not to be a Muslim). Court cases promise to revolve around the issue of religious freedom, which is theoretically guaranteed by the Malaysian constitution.\n\nOn 1 August 2005, officials of the Besut Land Office destroyed Sky Kingdom's various buildings, citing Section 129 of the National Land Code (which punishes unauthorised construction with land confiscation). The titular landowner is Ariffin's first wife, who apparently failed to appear in court for a hearing on the matter. On 1 September 2005, at a hearing, a trial date for 45 followers accused of violating the government fatwa was set for three days beginning 18 December that year. All of the accused are represented by Wan Haidi Wan Jusoh of Ubaidullah Aziz and Co, who unsuccessfully petitioned the court to order his name blacked out by the media. The group had previously experienced great difficulty in attracting legal representation, presumably owing to attorneys' fear of reprisals or negative publicity.\n\nAs of 2007, after wide media coverage, the original Hulu Besut commune, now down to 24 members, had reportedly chosen a new leader—a former police chief inspector in his 30s. The group is suspicious of visitors, and routinely turns out the commune's lights whenever a car approaches at night, in order not to be found. From 2009, Ariffin Mohamed was believed to have been residing in exile in Narathiwat, Thailand, just over the border from the Kelantan province.\n\nOn 22 April 2016, Ariffin died in the home of his third wife, Che Jaharah Awang in Kampung Batu 13, Hulu Besut due to old age. He was 74. Before his death, it was reported that he had been suffering from various illnesses since fleeing from the authorities in 2005. His body was laid to rest at Batu 13 Cemetery, Hulu Besut, Kuala Terengganu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45510390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45510390", "title": "Augustin Farah", "text": "Augustin Farah\n\nAugustin Farah (born on 4 May 1910 in Kara, Lebanon - died on 31 March 1983) was an archbishop of the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Tripoli and the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Zahle and Forzol.\n\nOn September 8, 1937, he became an ordained priest. Farah was named on March 7, 1961 for the Archeparchy of Tripoli and was ordained bishop on June 18, 1961. The ordination was headed by the Patriarch of Antioch Maximos IV Sayegh, SMSP, at his co-consecrators were the Archbishops Philippe Nabaa of Beirut and Jbeil and Athanase Ach-Chaer, BC, of Banyas. When the Diocese of Tripoli was elevated to the Archdiocese, Farah also received on 18 November 1964 the title of archbishop. From 1962 to 1965 he was a participant at all meetings of the Second Vatican Council. In 1965, Farah was shortly Apostolic Administrator of Jerusalem. On August 25, 1977, he was appointed Jean Bassoul's successor at the Melkite Greek Catholic Archeparchy of Zahle and Forzol and ran it until his death on March 31, 1983. He was succeeded by André Haddad, BS.\n\n"}
{"id": "4725387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725387", "title": "Bonanza Kings", "text": "Bonanza Kings\n\nThe Bonanza Kings, also called the Silver Kings, was a nickname given to the four men who started a stock brokerage called \"Flood and O'Brien\", more commonly known as the Bonanza Firm. Bonanza is a Spanish term, meaning a rich ore body; in 1873, after gaining control of the Consolidated Virginia Mining Company, they discovered a large vertical ore body more than 1,200 feet deep which became known as the \"big bonanza\".\n\nIn 1871, Irish-Americans John William Mackay, James Graham Fair, James Clair Flood and William S. O'Brien, organized the Consolidated Virginia Silver Mine near Virginia City, Nevada, from a number of smaller claims on the Comstock Lode and later added the nearby California mine. Mackay and Fair had the mining knowledge and Flood and O'Brien raised the money. The purchase price of the claims, later to become a fabulous source of wealth, was about $100,000. The original stock issue was 10,700 shares, selling for between $4 and $5 a share.\n\nIn 1873 the \"big bonanza\" was uncovered and San Francisco and the entire mining world were hurtled into a fever of excitement. The first stock issue was converted into two issues of 108,000 shares each, and by the middle of 1875 the speculative value of the two mines were close to $1,000,000,000. Shares went as high as $710.\n\nFor three years after the discovery of \"big bonanza\" the two mines produced $3,000,000 per month. In 1876, for exhibition purposes, $6,000,000 was taken in one month from both mines. Production began to fall off in 1879 but in twenty-two years of operation the two mines yielded more than $150,000,000 in silver and gold, and paid $78,148,800 in dividends, making the four owners into some of America's wealthiest men.\n\n"}
{"id": "15660832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15660832", "title": "Capodecina", "text": "Capodecina\n\nA capodecina (literally 'head of ten', also called caporegime in the American Mafia) is the head of a decina, a branch within a Mafia family. In the larger families, a capodecina is selected by the head of the family and coordinates units of about ten people.\n\nMafia members are organized under the supervision of a capodecina who reports to the capo famiglia, the head of the Mafia family or cosca. The term derives from \"dieci\" (ten), suggesting that each would be in charge of ten men. The term was mentioned as early as the 1880s in Sicily to describe the organisation of the Fratellanza, a Mafia-type organisation in Agrigento, in the south of Sicily.\n\nThe Mafioso Melchiorre Allegra spoke of a \"capo della decina\" in his 1937 testimony. He said a family split into groups of ten men each when it became unmanageably large.\n\n"}
{"id": "3740888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3740888", "title": "Celebrity branding", "text": "Celebrity branding\n\nCelebrity branding or celebrity endorsement is a form of advertising campaign or marketing strategy used by brands, companies, or a non-profit organization which involves celebrities or a well-known person using their social status or their fame to help promote a product, service or even raise awareness on environmental or social matters. Marketers use celebrity endorsers in hopes that the positive images of the celebrity endorser of the brand will also be passed on to the products or the brand image associated with the celebrities. Celebrity endorsement is usually commonly used by fashion or beauty brands, but a non-profit organization relies on celebrities as well, as celebrities have mass communication skills which can attract people's attention and is helpful in reaching a wider audience to raise their awareness towards a certain organization or an issue, thus making celebrities effective fundraisers.\n\nThrough the 1760s, royal endorsements were used as a type of celebrity branding to promote products. The first product that used celebrity endorsements was in the 1760s, where Josiah Wedgwood and Sons, producers of pottery and chinaware, used royal endorsements as a marketing device to show value in the company and promote others their product (\"Celebrity Endorsement – Throughout the Ages, \"2004).\n\nIn 1875–1900s trade cards were introduced, this is where there would be a picture of a celebrity with a photo of the product. Typically, these trade cards would be given to consumers with the product or would be inserted on the packaging of the product itself, which would feature celebrities such as actors or sport stars.\n\nCigarette brands became hugely involved in celebrity branding, 'Kodas' cigarettes introduced baseball player cards into the packets of cigarettes as part of a customer loyalty scheme. This created a demand for consumers to buy more cigarettes so they could gain all the cards of all baseball players due to celebrity endorsement of the cards.\n\nIn the early 1930s the major trending celebrity endorsers were athletes, then by 1945 the trend changed and movie stars were the next big celebrity endorsers. In 1965, colour television was introduced to the marketing and there was a popular rising demand which was occurring, this in when television personalities and entertainers became a celebrity endorsement for communicating services and products.\n\nCompanies and firms in the 1980s then decided to start making products around celebrities (\"Celebrity Endorsement – Throughout the Ages,\" 2004). An example of this is in 1984 when the company Nike noticed a talented and young basketball player called Michael Jordan. Michael Jordan then became Nike's celebrity brand ambassador for their sports industry. Nike extremely relied on Michael Jordan's social status to make the brand internationally well known.\n\nSince companies started making products around celebrities and the celebrity becoming the brand ambassador for the company, athletes and entertainment celebrity's then started to negotiate salaries and pay out's for them representing the company due to the competition of other firms. Due to salaries always increasing because of the demands of the celebrity, usually, sales for the company that the celebrity was promoting would increase.\n\nFurthermore, in the late 1900s, celebrity endorsements came to another level, instead of images of them promoting a brand, companies started to hold press conferences with the celebrity announcing special deals, this meant celebrities had now become a spokesman for the firm. As more companies got their celebrity ambassador to hold press conferences and announce special deals, sales for the brands were increasing immensely and more deals were introduced to the market.\n\nIn the year of the 2000s, studies have shown that by having a celebrity ambassador for a firm has improved sales enormously; such as Nike whom signed Tiger Woods in 1996 saw a $50million increase in sales on golf balls by 2002 (\"Celebrity Endorsement – Throughout the Ages, \"2004).\n\nCelebrity branding or celebrity endorsement of a company's product is effective largely because celebrities have the potential to reach a large number of prospective consumers.\n\nReach can be loosely defined as the number of people that have seen and/or heard the brand's intended message at least once (Belch & Belch, 2012). If a brand or company decides to use celebrity branding to market their product, it is highly probable that they are deciding to attempt to reach the largest assortment of potential consumers possible, rather than reaching a small number of consumers but more frequently – which is described as frequency (Belch & Belch, 2012).\n\nAn example of the usefulness of a celebrity's reach can be shown in statistics taken from telegraph.co.uk regarding the world's most followed Instagram celebrities. The most followed Instagram celebrity is Selena Gomez, with each post that she makes being viewed by all or most of her 145 million followers. Cristiano Ronaldo is 2nd, with 144 million followers, and Ariana Grande is 3rd with 116 million followers. A direct brand endorsement from one of these celebrities would be significant were they to post a picture with the company's product encouraging their followers to go out and purchase it, and this is on Instagram alone. Imagine the effect of a celebrity posting an endorsement across all of their social media, (Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Snapchat, etc.). The reach that an A-list celebrity has possesses the ability to reach millions of potential consumers, and as a result can be an incredibly effective way to boost sales, or at the very least get a brand's name out there in a wider audience than before.\n\nThere is a high focus placed upon the importance of choosing a reliable, trustworthy celebrity to endorse or sponsor a company's product, while still balancing the celebrity's attractiveness, power, and similarity of the celebrity's public image with the company's overall current, or intended brand image.\n\nBrand image can be described as \"the set of beliefs held about a particular brand\" (Kotler, 1988). Research carried out by Keller & Aaker in 1992 suggests that a brand with better positive brand image and attitudes is more likely to achieve heightened development within their relevant market. (Keller & Aaker, 1992). Therefore, choosing a celebrity who is going to beneficially contribute to the existing or intended image and attitudes of the brand is vital to ensure the success of the celebrity branding.\n\nThe brand alliance is a business strategy that can involve the intentional process of associating two or more established brand names in a specific attempt to attract attention from consumers and thus increase the chances of earning additional sales for all the businesses involved.\n\nBrand recognition is a huge part of celebrity branding. Brand recognition is where the general public is able to establish a brand from its attributes. It is most successful when a brand is exposed without a company name and is then recognized by the customer through the visual signifiers such as logos, slogans, and colors. An Example of this is Coke whereby their signature color is red and consumers acknowledge that. Brand Recognition is extremely effective in promotional campaigns. To measure brand recognition and the effectiveness it has on promotional campaigns, companies will conduct experiments on study groups for results. If brands are equal in quality similar products brand recognition will always have an advantage of higher sales (Investopedia. 2016).\n\nThis quote explains that there are two types of celebrity endorsement: explicit and implicit.\n\nAn example of explicit endorsement can be seen through Beyoncé's sponsorship deal with PepsiCo. In 2012 Beyoncé and PepsiCo sat down and penned a partnership deal that is estimated to be worth approx. $50 million, (Sisario, 2012), that embraces the standard Pepsi print and TV commercials that Beyoncé will appear in, as well as a more unorthodox 'creative fund' for any future projects Beyoncé chooses to take on (Casserly, 2012). This is an effective explicit endorsement because not only does Beyoncé have incredible reach, being one of the world's biggest female popstars, but also the term 'partnership' feels more genuine for consumers which may make them more likely to believe that Beyoncé is endorsing the Pepsi product because she believes in the product and the company behind it, rather than some celebrity endorsements which feel forced, or where consumers see through the endorsement and assume it's just a business decision on behalf of the celebrity to make some extra cash.\n\nAn example of implicit endorsement can be explained by noticing the growing number of 'Beats by Dre' portable speakers that have been appearing in pop and hip-hop music videos, (such music videos include Lady Gaga, Miley Cyrus, Nicki Minaj and Britney Spears (Ortiz, 2014)). The celebrities involved are not expressly mentioning the Beats product within their music videos, but their presence amongst these celebrities convey the message of it being a high-quality product associated with those of a high social class, particularly those who are industry leaders in music\n\n\n\nThe advantages of celebrity branding are having a product that the endorser likes and utilizes and incorporates into their lifestyle as well as having some knowledge about the product. This would be an advantage in advertising the product because the endorser would be more passionate about the product and promote the product in a believable way that consumers would be persuaded by (Halonen-Knight and Hurmerinta, 2010).\n\nCelebrity endorsements have considerable influence in sales when promoting a product and brand, as they can supply information, which is focused on the benefits and remarkable features of the product in an unbiased and standard form, which has a great effect on the business revenue (Popescu, G.H, 2014).\n\nAn advantage of celebrity branding is by using social networks, as it is a less cost-effective scheme of assembling and distributing information so that consumers become more aware of the product before purchasing it, as well as having great online consumer reviews will increase sales due to great advertisement is done by the company/brand and the celebrity promoting the product.\n\nThe most effective advertisements are those that are supported by celebrity endorsements. These celebrity endorsements result in beneficial results for the product or brand.\n\nCelebrities in advertising make the advertisement more noticeable to consumers, they stand out from the media clutter and are therefore a good basis of capturing and retaining consumer attention (Muda et al., 2012). Studies have shown that using celebrities in advertising increases the message's persuasiveness which results in consumers having a better recall and recognition for the product or brand (Zhou & Whitla, 2013). Muda et al. (2014) state that having celebrities in advertisements positively influences ad effectiveness measures (i.e. consumer attitudes towards the brand, consumer attitudes towards the ad, and purchase intentions).\n\nCelebrities are perceived to hold qualities such as attractiveness, expertise, trustworthiness and likeability, which advertiser's hope will be transferred to the brand or product consequently creating positive images for that product or brand (Muda et al., 2012). Many consumers idolise celebrities and strive to imitate their lives with the clothes they wear and products they consume (Aureliano-Silva et al., 2015). Celebrities create meaning for the consumer through their interactions with products in advertising (Muda et al., 2012; Aureliano-Silva et al., 2015).\n\nDue to the high-profile lives of celebrities that are constantly being reviewed and scrutinized by the media, there are risks of using celebrities in advertising (Jin & Phua, 2014).\n\nThe term eclipsing (also referred to as overshadowing) is used to describe the instance where a celebrity in an advertisement overshadows the product being advertised by occupying more time or space than the product being advertised, this is a negative for the advertiser as the product is not the main focus for the consumers (Ilicic & Webster, 2014). It is crucial for the effectiveness of the advertisement to ensure that the product is the focus of attention (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012).\n\nOverexposure refers to the negative effect that is a result of when a celebrity endorses multiple products of a similar type at one time (Muda et al., 2012). Consumers can become more sceptical of the celebrity's motives to endorse products and therefore may perceive the celebrity to be less credible when endorsing multiple products (Ilicic & Webster, 2011).\n\nCelebrity endorsements do not guarantee long-term favorable effects, due to the risk to advertisers that the celebrity endorser may get caught up in a scandal, creating negative perceptions to consumers (Zhou & Whitla, 2013). Common celebrity scandals involve alcohol, drug, sex, or crime related events (Muda et al., 2012). These scandals can have a negative effect on the image of the brand, as consumers' negative perceptions of the celebrity endorser may be transferred to the brand, therefore negatively influencing sales of the brand's products (Zhou & Whitla, 2013). One of the largest profile celebrity endorsement scandals of recent history was the infidelity scandal of Tiger Woods in 2009, at the time, Tiger Woods was a brand ambassador for Nike golf apparel and footwear. It has been estimated that Nike lost approximately US$5–12billion due to this scandal (Zhou & Whitla, 2013).\n\nConsumers' views of the celebrity endorser may change, due to changes in the celebrity's image (Muda et al., 2012). Changes in image may be a result of injury, physical appearance, change in marital status, or a decline in professional visibility and this can result in the celebrity endorser no longer suiting the product or brand being endorsed (Muda et al., 2012; Keel & Nataraajan, 2012).\n\nUsing celebrity endorsement has its risks as well as its benefits. Some of the opportunities provided by the endorsement may have two sides to it, making it a potential risk as well.\n\nThrough celebrity branding there are many disadvantages for businesses that choose to take this strategy. Many disadvantages for celebrity branding could involve the celebrity overshadowing the business or having too much over exposure, other factors could also include bad image change or public controversy. The celebrity the business decides to use as the face of their campaign could have a negative impact on the organisation due to their previous image or a decline in their fame. If companies designing their new merchandise or product to fit the celebrity's image, the product may not be appealing to some consumers due to lack of trustworthiness, attractiveness or knowledge, and this will create a loss in purchases. Businesses can also run the risk of losing loyal customers to other competitors.\n\nWhen a celebrity is promoting a brand there can be risks involved, where there is a miscommunication between the consumer and the representation of the product. In some cases, there is no connection between the product and the celebrity, which can become an effective or a defective result due to the position and relevance of the product. When Celebrity Branding does not work out for a firm, the celebrity can be seen as a scheme to promote the person as a marketing instrument. Ideally, some consumers believe that companies who use celebrity endorsers, as a marketing strategy to promote a product should choose an endorser who utilizes and enjoys using the product. Therefore, ethically they are trusting the brand and showing potential consumers the effects of the product and making the advertisement more believable. Rather than a celebrity endorser who is promoting the brand just because of their social status and there is no relevance between the product and the celebrity (Popescu, G.H, 2014).\n\nCompanies who use celebrity endorsers are at a risk financially, whether they are choosing the right celebrity endorser to represent their brand and return the favor with an increase in sales, or for the brand to become known on a wider scale. Firms are also taking risks in hoping that their chosen celebrity endorser will portray their brand in the correct way, because any small or big mistake can cost the company in a negative outcome, especially due to the celebrity's social status it can affect a huge audience. This could be due to miscommunication between the firm and the endorser advertising the product or service (Halonen-Knight and Hurmerinta, 2010).\n\nCelebrity endorsement usually impacts the feelings of the customers and the position they have concerning the advertisement and the brands, thus enhancing the purchase intentions and the sales (Bondrea and $tefanescu-Mihäilä, 2004). Therefore, if there is a communication error, it can defeat the sale as well as portray the brand negatively. Financially, firms can invest up to millions of dollars when choosing a celebrity to promote their brand; therefore they do not wish for an undesirable impact.\n\nAlthough for a business, hiring a celebrity to endorse their brand would seem to be an effective and profitable way of expanding the growth of their brand – there is a severe risk with choosing this type of marketing strategy which could lead to damaging impacts on the business therefore choosing this strategy could be an beneficial or a huge disadvantage.\n\nWhen observing the communication process, the three main factors when communicating information are through the sender, channel and receiver but then considering the noise surrounding it – noise being anything that can interfere with the intended message sent from the source to the receiver. (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A. (2012).) A company when choosing the celebrity to represent their brand, they have to carefully examine the reputation and image of this person and whether it coincides and complements with their product and purpose. A business needs to have confidence in this celebrity to remain acting a suitable way which does not diminish the reputation of the brand otherwise there could be a definite negative impact on the way a consumer interprets a message from the brand.\n\nFor example, in recent news the global Tennis star Maria Sharapova who has been a role model and highest paid female athlete (\"Maria Sharapova: Is star's brand damaged goods? – CNN.com,\" 2016) for the past 11 years since she was 17 was caught in a scandal after she failed a major drugs test. Sharipova, endorsing some of the biggest and most successful organisations like Nike, Poshe and Evian – was immediately dropped by these businesses as soon as word was out about the drug failure as it was evident that this would be harmful to the companies' reputation and would leave consumers with a different and undesired view of their brand. It is shown that even the most seemingly reliable and trustworthy celebrities can slip up and cause brand image and reputation to be put on the line.\n\nThe news of controversy surrounding a celebrity would be a definite source of noise and it alters the message a brand is trying to convey. Consumers would already have specific connotations and personal views on the celebrity after negative news about them has surfaced, which would consequently directly affect that same consumer's image of the company. This is known as the term 'Source-related Thoughts' where the source significantly sways the thoughts of the receiver. It has been said that \"If consumers find a particular spokesman annoying or untrustworthy, they are less likely to accept what this source has to say...Receivers who react favourably to the source generate favourable thoughts, or source bolsters.\" (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A. (2012).) This would mean that if a company chose to market their brand using a celebrity they would have to make sure their target market would appeal to this person as they develop feelings for the consumer regardless of the brand their product. Therefore, there would no use in using a youthful teenaged movie star to endorse an anti-wrinkle cream or a very misogynistic politician to promote a campaign to women – people would not be in favour to trust or like the business because they dislike or do not relate with the celebrity spokesman representing it. Choosing a celebrity in which a business' target market will appeal to will convey and carry on the message effectively.\n\nThe entire aim of marketing and advertising is to draw attention to your business and persuade or manipulate the target market into consuming goods or services. The more attention brought to the company, the larger opportunities gained to communicate with consumers. With using celebrity branding, there is an advantage as because this person already has a large audience and following, attention can be drawn easily. It's how the business uses this attention decides whether the outcome is beneficial or negative to the brand because there are dear impacts if an error is made due to the many people watching and making judgments. The theory of market senses/sensory marketing is where a marketer relates to an audience on an emotional level. With taking advantage of the already built attention, the right celebrity branding whether the brand is looking for a celebrity with sex appeal or a reputation of charity or generosity, these can develop an emotional response and connection from consumers which can benefit the business greatly. Though of course if celebrities possess undesired traits, this can generate a negative emotional response which would turn consumers away from a brand. (Heath, R., Brandt, D., & Nairn, A. (2006).)\n\nChoosing to use the celebrity branding strategy to connect to consumers is either win or lose. With the future being so unexpected, using a celebrity to endorse a product and business could bring huge positives or could have immensely damaging effects but there is no way of predicting which outcome the business will get. By choosing the perceived most trustworthy and suitable celebrity relative to the business would be the safest bet to gain success and prevent reputation damage. Businesses need to outweigh the pros and cons and decide whether they are prepared to take the risk.\n\nKelman (1961) claims that a source (defined as the individual or group that intends to communicate an idea, or message to their target audience, also known as a sender (Finne & Grönroos, 2009)), will be more effective in their objective to convince consumers to purchase a product if the receivers perceive them as \"attractive, credible, and powerful\" (Kelman, 1961). The attractiveness of the sender is determined by how much the audience likes the person that is making the statements about the company/product. The credibility can refer to how much we trust the individual's opinions/morals, and how convincing their belief in the product that they are sponsoring is (Rifon et al., 2004). An individual is considered powerful when they can \"affect behaviour because of perceived reward or punishment\" (Dahlén et al., 2010).\n\nOne of the clearest examples of the importance of a celebrity's credibility when endorsing a product can be seen with Tiger Woods's endorsement of Nike in 2000. The involvement of Tiger Woods within Nike \"resulted in the acquisition of approximately 4.5 million customers and $60 million in profit\" (CBS Interactive Inc., 2010). However, following the 2009 scandal, (Tiger was caught sleeping with around 7 women while married to his wife (Bacon & Busbee, 2012)), Nike began to see shifts in their sales. According to a study conducted by Carnegie Mellon University's Tepper School of Business, \"the scandal cost Nike $1.7 million in sales and lost the company nearly 105,000 customers...\" (Carnegie Mellon University, 2010). This just goes to show that although Tiger Woods was still attractive to consumers, and still a very powerful man, he was no longer credible and as a result his endorsement in the later years did more harm than good.\n\nCelebrity branding is used to help create a further image as a brand. The use of celebrities helps to humanize the brand. This creates a brand identity as consumers begin to relate the celebrities' characteristics with the brands. There are different ways CELEBRITY BRANDING CAN BE USED IN PAID AND UNPAID ENDORSEMENT METHODS.\n\nCelebrity branding can take several different forms, from the appearance of a celebrity in advertisements for a product, service or charity, to a celebrity attending PR events, creating his or her own line of products or services, or funher name as a brand. The most popular forms of celebrity brand lines are for clothing and fragrances. Some singers, models and film stars have at least one licensed product or service which bears their name. The use of a celebrity or of a sports professional can have a huge impact on a brand. For example, sales of Nike golf apparel and footwear doubled after Tiger Woods was signed up on a sponsorship deal.\n\nCelebrities also provide voice-overs for advertising. Some celebrities have distinct voices which are recognizable even when faces are not visible on a screen. This is a more subtle way to add celebrity branding to a product or service. An example of such an advertising campaign is Sean Connery's voice-over for Level 3 Communications.\n\nCelebrity branding is a global phenomenon and it assumes paramount importance in countries like India, where the public may treat celebrities as virtual demi-gods. There is a certain correlation between successful celebrity branding and brand endorsements. More recently, advertisers have begun attempting to quantify and qualify the use of celebrities in their marketing campaigns by evaluating their awareness, appeal, and relevance to a brand's image and the celebrity's influence on consumer buying behavior.\n\nHowever, in some cases the celebrity did not give permission to be associated with the brand and was wrongly attributed to the brand. For example, on July 23, 2008, Taco Bell launched their \"Why Pay More?\" campaign and used 50 Cent's name and trademark as a way to endorse their low-cost menus. 50 Cent was unaware of this endorsement and therefore sought out legal action. He filed a lawsuit against Taco Bell and sued for $4 million. He won the case.\n\nPaid endorsement or overt endorsement involves a contract between the brand and the celebrity for the celebrity to represent the brand in an advertising campaign. The contract may involve some restraints on the celebrity's act; such as cutting their hair or endorsing a direct competitor.\nPaid endorsements involves a contract between the brand and the celebrity to represent the brand. The celebrity will generally gain a sum of money for endorsing the brand but also have a few guidelines to follow. Some methods of paid endorsements are: \nAdvertisements can include television advertisements, radio, billboards, or magazine posters showing the celebrity in the brands advertisement to help increase the products image. The celebrity could be seen using the product, or the main character, as being seen in the advertisement can help viewers associate them with the brand. An example of Celebrity Branding in an advertisement is George Clooney in Nespressos 'What else' advertising campaign. Celebrities used for voice-overs or radio advertisements generally have a distinct voice that viewers will recognize like Morgan Freeman's voice.\nBrands use events for the celebrity to be seen at, as it helps show their support or association with the brand. Having photos taken of the celebrities at the event makes the viewers associate them with them supporting the brand, making the viewer associate a positive connection. This can be done through celebrities hosting the brands event, like Victoria Secret Show, using celebrities to perform on the catwalk. \nCelebrities promote the brand using social media using social media, like Instagram, Facebook or Snapchat. This helps the brand target the celebrities' followers to create an association between the two.\n\nSocial media sites, including Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, are a popular non-traditional medium for celebrities endorsing products and brands (Jin & Phua, 2014). The advantages of using celebrity endorsements on social media is the large reach that celebrities have. This means that large audiences are exposed to the influence of the celebrity to encourage positive purchasing behaviours towards the brand (Jin & Phua, 2014). In 2013, the most followed accounts on Twitter with more than 30million followers each were Justin Bieber, Lady Gaga and Katy Perry (Jin & Phua, 2014). Jin and Phua, (2014) state that the more followers someone has the greater perceived social influence they hold. As well as having reach to their followers, any post may be shared by their followers to extend that reach to further audiences (Jin & Phua, 2014). Another benefit of using social media for celebrity endorsements is the interactive nature of this non-traditional media, (Cunningham & Bright, 2012), this helps to build the relationship between the celebrity endorser, consumer and the brand.\n\nIn 2009, growing concern about consumers being misled by celebrity endorsers on social media platforms led to the Federal Trade Commission introducing a set of guidelines to protect consumers called \"Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising\" (Cunningham & Bright, 2012). As a result, celebrity endorsers are required to advise consumers when they have been paid to endorse a product (Cunningham & Bright, 2012), this can be done through the use of hashtags #ad, #spon, #paid\nThe hiring of a spokesman or celebrity has increased as a digital marketing technique. Celebrities have been endorsing products and services of businesses on television and print media for decades. However, the social networking site Instagram is now often used as a platform for businesses to market products or services either through a third parties page, such as a celebrate, or directly through their own Instagram page. Having started as a social networking site, Instagram has evolved into a successful marketing tool. What is special about Instagram is the fact that it encourages electronic word of mouth, which exist solely on the concept of sharing. Companies can simply tag the username for the businesses Instagram page to allow other potential consumers to browse through that Instagram account in just one click.\n\nThe culture of advertising on Instagram came naturally when businesses realized that celebrities have a direct means of communication to their target demographic. According to the Telegraph (2015), the ten most popular Instagram accounts are all celebrities who all have around 30 million followers. By partnering with one of these celebrities, businesses are already reaching an engaged and targeted audience of 30 million people. Many of America's top-earning celebrities Instagram accounts are continually promoting products such as health supplements, vitamins and detox teas. These aren't spontaneous proclamations, but rather posts paid for by brands to advertise products to the celebrities' sizable following.\n\nOn Instagram alone a profile with three-to-seven million followers can charge as much as $75,000 per endorsement, even a profile with 50,000 to 500,000 followers might make $1000 for a post on Instagram. At the top end of the digital celebrity pay scale some posts can earn around $300,000, especially when Instagram pictures can be easily linked to other social media platforms such as Facebook or Twitter.\n\nOne of the celebrities that is most well known for promoting brands on her Instagram page is Kim Kardashian. She currently posts advertisements for at least eight different brands, ranging from jewelry to morning sickness medication, with an estimated earning of $51 million from posting on her social media channels alone. Similarly, footballer Cristiano Ronaldo endorses TAG Heuer through his Instagram account, he dutifully thanks them for the watches he has been given as a 'gift' and signs of his posts on Instagram with the companies advertising slogan.\n\nGlobal brands are expanding the use of digital communication via social media. Companies who use Instagram as a form of digital communication include, high fashion brands such as Christian Louboutin and Chanel. Both have been known to send products to influential users in return for an Instagram post and acknowledgement.\n\nPuma SE have recently increased their digital marketing campaigns through the use of sponsored adverts and endorsements on Instagram. This now allows products to be bought directly from the social media platform. As well as facilitating interactions with the companies target audience, promoting products through instagram can also generate media coverage. For example, Puma have aligned with Kylie Jenner to create the Puma Fierce trainer; reactions on social media to this collaboration from the likes of Kanye West have increased the awareness of the product.\n\nCelebrity advertisement posts on Instagram can generate upwards of 10 million engagements, according to social media data provider D’marie Archive. This makes these forms digital marketing communication an attractive bet for advertisers seeking millennial eyes. Furthermore, the principle analyst at eMarketer Debra Williamson states that these celebrities influence teens and young adults when it comes to making a purchase, firms can reach out to people through Instagram that otherwise would not be reached. This is because visual images tend to be more engaging than text alone. Instagram has become an interactive channel that brands can use to communicate with their customers on a more personal level.\n\nAs Instagram has transformed into one of the most influential forms of mass communication, the rules surrounding Instagram advertisements have been developed overtime to ensure that institutions do not misuse the platform.\n\nUnpaid endorsement or covert endorsement occurs when a celebrity wears or uses the product of a certain brand because they like it. Brands can send free samples to celebrities to try out their product, and review or use on social media to give their opinion on the product. Lots of beauty companies use this to get YouTube reviewers to review their product so they get free advertising. Sometimes a celebrity is given merchandise by a brand to use or wear in public where there is maximum exposure, such as an event. This is called \"gifting\" and the celebrity might endorse the brand by taking a photo of the gift and putting it on their social media account for their fans and followers to see. Whilst the \"gifting\" may appear to be unpaid, costs are associated with this endorsement, as the brand does not have any contract in place with the celebrity and will have little or no protection against what happens during the unpaid endorsement.\nCelebrities are seen wearing or using the product due to liking it themselves. They could be seen wearing the product in public or in photos on social media. This is 'free advertising' for the brand. A disadvantage of this is the brand has no control over what message or image the celebrity associated with the brand is portraying.\n\nWhen companies are selecting a celebrity to endorse their brand, they must match a certain criteria that they wish for the brand to be associated with. The celebrity must fill the gap between the consumer and brand when one is present. \n\n\n\nCelebrity endorsement also affects the celebrity. The brand itself can have a positive and negative influence on the celebrities' image showing a reverse effect of the celebrity endorsing the brand.\n\n\n\nCelebrity branding has become a marketing strategy to help appeal a brand to new consumers. They are a way for brands to increase their sales and grow their market, having a huge influence on society as they are seen as opinion leaders. Brands build a relationship with new consumers through celebrities endorsing their products. Celebrities can capture the consumer's attention and identify with the brand, leading to sales and making the brand more desirable over other competitors. They also have an influence over their followers due to consumers showing an increase in obsession with celebrities'. A connection can be made with the consumers in a way brands cannot. Some generations look up to celebrities as they can aspire to be like them. Many brands will ride the celebrity's success wave when using them in an endorsement.\n\nIt is important for a brand to choose their celebrity endorser carefully after considering factors, such as who fits the brand's image and what kind of message the brand wants to get across to the audience. It is also important for the celebrity endorser to be attractive, credible, and trustworthy as the image of the celebrity enhances advertising effectiveness.\n\nA report by Brand Affinity Technologies (BAT), a celebrity marketing company, discusses the effectiveness of celebrity endorsement in social media advertising. In 2011, BAT analyzed 200 social media endorsements against comparable social media advertisements that did not feature any celebrities and found that endorsed messages gave performance rates huge lifts: the results showed that 50% improvement was made in cost-per-action for endorsed messages over non-endorsed advertising, and the click-through-rates for endorsed messages were 17~21 times higher.\n\nThe match-up hypothesis generally suggests that the image of the product or the brand that is being endorsed by the celebrity should match the image of the celebrity to make an effective advertisement. The match-up hypothesis is only relevant when the product or the brand that is being advertised is related to a product that enhances one's attractiveness. Thus, it is not only important that the images of the product and the celebrity matches, but the importance of the need for the two images to match on an attractive basis is emphasized.\n\nThe All Blacks partnership with Adidas is again an accurate example. It is always made apparent that the All Blacks are wearing Adidas in any form of media they appear in. Adidas benefits from its alliance with the All Blacks because of the All Black's high reputation and the fact that they use only the best equipment. The All Blacks are constantly followed on every form of media. This concludes the reason as to why Adidas is their main sponsor – they want to be a part of the 'All Blacks' fame and success.\n\nConsumers decipher the cultural codes embodied in celebrity images and actively identify personal, social and cultural meaning in these idols. Therefore, this is why celebrity branding and endorsing through technology has become increasingly more of a trend with initial touch points of communicational advertising. More and more corporate brands are enlisting celebrities to differentiate their brand and create a more competitive advantage through media (IIicic & M. Webster, 2015). For example, if there are two brands that have a similar or identical product, it is almost guaranteed that the brand with the more established and well-known celebrity will be more successful in sales and interest (Ambroise, Pantin-Sohler, Valette – Florence & Albert, 2014). Big companies such as Adidas and Nike use high-profile celebrities to appeal to the emotional side of the average consumer. Celebrities provide much more than entertainment. They influence consumers' perceptions, behaviours, values and decisions (Choi and Rifon, 2012).\n\nCelebrity branding has become a necessary tool for promoting and communicating brands. Whereas once there were only the three traditional methods, they are no longer utilized as much. Due to all of the new intrusive and personal forms of media, celebrities' lives have become more transparent to the public, making them seem as if their lifestyles are more attainable. Touchpoints are one of important reasons for this. Celebrities are therefore viewed as an honest and reliable source of information as people assume they are using what is being endorsed. The social meanings within a celebrity branding are the attributes of the celebrity's individuality and the values of society (Turner, 2014).\n\nCelebrity entrepreneurial branding refers to when a celebrity associates themselves as a financial stakeholder and/or decision maker of a product line (Muda et al., 2014). There are three types of involvement that a celebrity can have with the branding of a product line, these are mono-branding, co-branded celebrity products and noncelebrity-branded products (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012). Clothing and fragrances are the most common types of product lines (Patra & Datta, 2010).\n\nMono-branding refers to when a product carries only the name of the Celebrity and the manufacturer does not directly associate itself with the product (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012). Keel and Nataraajan (2012) state that mono-branding is commonly used to expand the customer base, or to extend the brands. An example of this, is the collaboration between manufacturer Elizabeth Arden and Britney Spears who created the Britney Spears fragrance line (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012).\n\nCo-branded celebrity products refers to a strategic alliance between two brands, to develop, produce and market a product, whilst all parties retain their name (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012). Oeppen and Jamal (2014) state there are three levels of co-branding: reach/awareness co-branding, value endorsement co-branding and value awareness co-branding. Reach/awareness co-branding is the lowest level and its purpose is to maximize brand awareness (Oeppen, & Jamal, 2014). On the second level is value endorsement co-branding which aims to align either both or one of the brand's values in the consumers mind (Oeppen, & Jamal, 2014). Finally, ingredient co-branding. This level of co-brandings aims to create higher value creation by using the product of a market leading brand \"as a component of another brand\" (Oeppen, & Jamal, 2014). Co-branded celebrity products is commonly used in order to create greater value, expand customer base and increase brand awareness for both brands involved (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012). An example of a co-branded celebrity product is the collaboration between Taylor Swift and Keds footwear who in 2012 released a range of shoes called the Taylor Swift for Keds Collection (Kreller & Sabatelle, 2013).\n\nNoncelebrity-branded products are products that are not branded with the manufacturer or the celebrity's name (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012). Keel and Nataraajan (2012) state that this method of celebrity branding is commonly used when the endorsing celebrity has a 'narrow audience', is of limited appeal to the wider market, or the celebrity-product relationship is not a perfect fit. The product or brand may have better success or broader appeal if it is not directly associated with the celebrity entrepreneurial endorser. This is largely common in the food industry, with many celebrities opening restaurants for example Arnold Schwarzenegger opened Schatzi, an Austrian restaurant. An example of this in an alternative industry is the clothing line 6126, which was founded by Lindsay Lohan (Keel & Nataraajan, 2012).\n\nSociety at large has embraced the fashion choices of numerous musicians, and collaboration of famous musicians and designer brands is not exclusive to the 21st century. For instance, Nirvana's lead-man, Kurt Cobain, represented 90's grunge fashion while rapper Tupac Shukar was a symbol for 90's hip hop fashion. When hip hop music sales increased throughout the 1980s and 1990s, many apparel manufacturers wanted to capitalize on the trend. Karl Kani, a clothing brand centered around urban hip hop culture, attributed most of its success to the likes of Tupac and Mos Def wearing its apparel. Music and fashion continue to intersect today due to the trend of celebrity musicians collaborating with designer brands. According to the \"Journal of Marketing Management\", celebrity endorsement can be effective because consumers believe in the celebrity figures and consequently support the brands that the endorser markets. Evaluation of celebrity branding also suggests that credible advertising messages, coupled with the right endorser, can build consumer loyalty for the brand. Companies today often work with famous musicians to reap various benefits for their business such as increasing brand awareness. Singer and songwriter, Lana Del Rey, collaborated with H&M, and a study found that the posts containing Del Rey on the Facebook brand page received more likes than their regular posts, averaging out to around 667,000 likes per post. Over the past couple of years, many other well-known musicians have started their own capsule collections with designer brands.\n\nIn December 2014, Grammy award-winning artist, Rihanna became a brand ambassador and creative director of the fashion sportswear brand PUMA. In this role, Rihanna oversaw the brand's women's line which included collaborations in apparel, footwear, and accessories. In 2015, Rihanna released her first footwear collaboration with PUMA, the Creeper, which sold out within three hours of its pre-sale launch. Following the success, Rihanna and PUMA teamed up to create her very first fashion line named after her last name: FENTY PUMA by Rihanna. Each of the collection's seasons has introduced a different concept visually. The first season that dropped had roots in goth-streetwear culture, the 2017 spring/summer collection was French-inspired and described by Rihanna as, \"If Marie Antoinette was going to the gym and needed something to wear.\" Furthermore, the 2018 autumn/winter drop features a collection influenced by different cliques of high school. The apparel pieces features elements like exaggerated block letters and preppy silhouettes all designed by the help of the singer herself. In an interview with Vogue, Rihanna said, \"I have never gotten the chance to dress up in school. I always had to wear a school uniform...making this collection, I was able to have a little fun and play and create.\" Rihanna's last collection with PUMA dropped on March 15, 2018 fusing race culture and beach wear. According to Rihanna, making this collection \"was definitely a challenge\" but she \"really wanted to make something that was completely different\" than anything she's ever done before with PUMA. The introduction of Rihanna's line has not only been praised by critics and fashion bloggers, but has brought the company great success. Since the collaboration with the musician, PUMA has seen a 183% increase in searches on their site and Rihanna's velvet Creepers won Shoe of the Year Award in 2016.\n\nIn 2016, GUESS collaborated with rapper, A$AP Rocky, on a capsule collection featuring a line of apparel and accessories for both men and women. Because A$AP Rocky is a prominent rapper who has also been known for his style and interest in the fashion industry, the Los Angeles native brand, GUESS, paired up with him to release a 90's hip-hop throwback collection with a modern spin. Referring to the initial concept of the collaboration, Rocky said, \"It was just all about doing this whole throwback thing and bringing back Guess and just showing its importance in hip hop. Let’s be real, Guess was the s**t for hip hop.\" The line of apparel features iconic GUESS pieces like the triangle logo, colorful stripes, and distressed denim jackets with a redesigned version of the GUESS logo on the back. Most of the pieces in the collection replace the original \"s\" in \"GUESS\" with embroidered dollar signs in order to represent the rapper's insignia. According to Rocky, the line was also meant to feel nostalgic “I just wanted to bring back that feeling for our generation. There’s so much that they don’t know about, even with access to the Internet. I have a platform, so I’m just trying to show kids what they missed out on. They don’t know about the ‘80s and early ‘90s.” During the summer of 2017, the rapper and GUESS hosted pop up shops in New York City and West Hollywood where celebrities and fans attended to get the first chance to purchase something from the collection. Despite the buzz from his collaboration with GUESS, the company still reported a loss of $21.3 million in its fiscal first quarter as of May 2017.\n\nFred Perry is a British clothing brand founded in 1952 by triple Wimbledon champion, Fred Perry. The brand is known for its expensive yet casual wear, cashmere polos, sport-inspired wear, and involvement in mod culture. In 2010, the brand collaborated with the late British singer, Amy Winehouse to release a 50's and 60's inspired collection all designed by Winehouse herself. Richard Martin, former marketing director for Fred Perry, said the brand chose to collaborate with Winehouse because they \"were aware she was a genuine fan of the brand\" and because \"Amy has a unique sense of style that reflects the brand's own historical reference points.\" For the collection Winehouse was inspired by her own retro wardrobe and said, \"I still dress like I am in the 50's.\" The line varies in its product assortment, featuring plaid shirts and rompers, vintage sweaters, and polos with embroidery replicating the singer's own tattoo designs. The singer was only alive during the first drop of her collaboration which featured pieces like an argyle longline sweater that she was often seen wearing in the public, as well as during her recording session with Tony Bennett. After Amy Winehouse passed away on July 23, 2011, Fred Perry eventually received permission from her family to continue to release the rest of the collection over the next couple of years. Mitch Winehouse, the singer's father said, \"When Fred Perry came to us to ask what we would like to do with the new collection, it was natural to continue. Amy loved working on both collections and would want them to be made available.\" The singer's collection with Fred Perry is still available for sale online, but some of the new pieces are not based on original designs by Ms. Winehouse. Instead, her tattoo artist, Henry Hate and the Fred Perry design team have collaborated to continue working on the collection. Since the new collaboration, all sales from the collection's Fall 2011 and Spring 2012 pieces were donated to the Amy Winehouse Foundation. The Amy Winehouse Foundation was started by the singer's parents after she passed away, and mainly aims to prevent the effects of drug and alcohol misuse on young people. Fred Perry continues to make seasonal donations to the Amy Winehouse Foundation.\n\nIn modern-day many businesses have chosen to use celebrities in their marketing communications to make their product or organisation seem appealing to consumers, this type of strategy is used to increase sales and help the business seem more popular than other competitors. By using many known celebrities to be the face of their business campaign this puts a high emplacement of the brand in the consumers mind and helps shows trustworthiness, expertise and attractiveness by the use of the celebrity (Escalas & Bettman, 2015, p. xx). By using celebrities it not only makes the consumer feel attracted to the product it also maintains attention and keeps a higher recall about the business in their minds due to their fame in today's modern environment. Many businesses around the world are flooded with competitors so turn to celebrity branding to appeal to their targeted consumers, due to celebrities being seen as role models this will trigger a sense of need and satisfaction to the product in the consumers mind and will make them be able to related more to the business.\n\nCelebrity branding is crucial in the delivery of a message from the communicators to the audience. These celebrities are often referred to as opinion leaders or OLs. An opinion leader is a well-known individual or group that is used to help influence an opinion on a certain subject or matter due to their perceived social standing. Not to be confused with an opinion former, who is someone who holds professional expertise due to previous study and/or employment and is known to be knowledgeable within the field. These celebrities or OL's will communicate to the audience through socially mediated communications that enable the audience themselves to create a meaning through their own interactions. Examples of outlets include magazines, billboards, television ads, social media promotion and promotional events.\n\nOpinion leaders are the first step in the elements of persuasion. This is most important to the pre-purchase experience when a consumer is most interested in the marketing of the product they are intending to buy. The power of the persuasion that the opinion leader possesses will change depending on many different factors. The first is their credibility, this also works in turn with perceived trustworthiness. Consumers are more likely to believe that the campaign is genuine if the opinion leader is someone who has a reputation for being honest and credible. Another factor is their expertise in that field, although they don't have to be at an opinion formers level of expertise, any previous actions, study or jobs that may help the consumer believe that they do know a little bit about what they are promoting, also helps with the authenticity of the advert. For some, the more superficial values hold the most weight in persuasion so the mere fact that the OL is attractive is a key for them, also their social standing not only effects the reach of promotion, but also can attribute to the persuasiveness. People who are the most effected by opinion leaders are those who are often engaged under the peripheral route. The peripheral route is less analytical of the actual product at hand, but will be persuaded due to other factors including an opinion leader that the consumer likes, or attractive elements of the packaging. Whereas those who undertake the central route of persuasion are less affected by these often superficial features and are more likely to choose an option based on the merits of the products or the strength of the argument.\n\nAn example of opinion leaders in the social media touch point is the uprising in tourism campaigns running that will fully fund an Instagram opinion leaders travel to their country to 'gram' the whole experience. These opinion leaders are people with a large number of followers (think hundreds of thousands), and a strong influence within in Instagram community. The photos are of a real experience, so is perceived as very authentic and a real experience. This will be more persuasive in convincing people to travel to the particular country as they want to see the monument, beach, or other landmark that they have seen on Instagram.\n\nOpinion leaders help businesses overcome a key problem in today's marketing context that is to cut through the clutter. The average consumer 20 years ago was exposed to up to 2,000 adverts a day, while in today's modern marketing platform consumers can be exposed to anywhere up to 5,000 adverts in a 24-hour period. Due to the many different and new advertising outlets used in today's world and the large number of adverts present, one of the biggest struggle for a company is to stand out and differentiate themselves as not all of those 5,000 ads will be memorable, let alone noticeable.\n\nCommunication has been variously defined as the passing of information, between a sender and a receiver (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012) representing the reasoning behind why celebrity endorsements of brands are so successful in this day and age. This suggests that for communication to occur, there must be some common thinking between two parties and information must be passed from one person to another (or from one group to another) (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Celebrities are now a common factor within people's daily lives – whether we like it or not we live in a world that has been socially influenced by celebrities.\n\nThis is exactly why celebrity endorsed products are so successful.\n\nMedia in the past 10 years has changed dramatically. Society as a whole has been completely reconstructed with the advancements in technology. Different models of communication are now used universally – Twitter, Facebook, Instagram etc. – alongside many other traditional media (radio, print and television etc.) Technology through social media now runs the show. As observed technology is rapidly adapting, meaning communication through celebrity branding must also be updated regularly.\n\nModels of communication are always present when marketing a product. Especially when it comes to celebrities endorsing products.\n\nThe link between communication and celebrity branding is that there has to be good communication and understanding between the product/company and the celebrity supporting the good. Therefore, there cannot be a bad effect due to the celebrity portraying the brand or product incorrectly because of a miscommunication and causing conflict, frustration or tension (Sabie and Androniceanu, 2012).\n\nThe celebrity endorser needs to use persuasive communication to intrigue an audience into the brand's product or service. The celebrity endorser influencing a consumer's intentions, beliefs, attitudes, motivations and behavior in connecting with the brand's product or service can do this. This type of communication can encourage a consumer's decision in purchasing the product/service.\n\n\nModels of communication source encoding\n\nSource encoding is relevant often in celebrity branding. The sender, or source, of a communication is the person or organization that has information to share with another person or group of people. This is generally a hired spokesman, such as a celebrity, who appears in a company's advertisements (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Brands must ensure that they carefully choose with whom they decide to endorse their brand, as this will be the first touch point the consumer encounters and they will be communicating the brand as well as endorsing it. Because the receiver's perceptions of the source influence how the communication of the brand is received, marketers must be very careful to pick a communicator the receiver believes is knowledgeable and trustworthy. They need to be someone who they can identify and relate the product to (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). However, sometimes this method of communication can backfire on a brand. This can be the result of a public figure acting out of place and they are therefor viewed badly which results in the brand being viewed negatively also.\n\nExample one\n\nNike unfortunately has had to learn this the hard way – with professional sports stars having a tendency to be viewed by the media negatively. Tiger Woods was the perfect example of an accurate fit for Nike golf apparel. However, as soon as the public became aware of his 'marriage issues' Nike dropped his contract for fear that people might may no longer want to buy their products. Nike knew that bad publicity would have been counterproductive on the sale of their products. Tiger Woods' fall from grace would reverberate against the wholesome image, which Nike wanted to project. Because of the advancement of social media, celebrity endorsement can be a double-edged sword. When the celebrity is at the height of popularity endorsement works well for both parties. However, when the celebrity falls from grace then the use of the celebrity is non productive – the effects are almost immediate.\n\nExample two\n\nA more recent example is that of Maria Sharapova, world tennis champion and highest paid female athlete, who failed a drug test at the Australian open in January 2016. She admitted the charge and the brands she was endorsing withdrew their sponsorships – Nike, TAG Heuer and Porsche (Harris & Murray Brown, 2016). Nike alone has cancelled many deals with sports stars including Oscar Pistorious, Manny Pacquiao, Lance Armstrong and Ray Rice. (Harris & Murray Brown, 2016)\n\nHowever successful endorsements are more common than not, for example that of George Clooney promoting Nespresso coffee. Nespresso lures international clients with 'A list' celebrity's status such as George Clooney. Because of his wide-ranging appeal and worldly charismatic identity, people see the product as highly desirable.\n\nThe channel is the method by which the communication travels from the source or sender to the receiver (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Buzz marketing comes under the channel method and is another way in which celebrities can create a 'buzz marketing' effect and get people talking about a product. Many marketers are focusing on creating viral buzz to spread the word about their brand by using online techniques (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Celebrities best do this as they have wide followings in the 'online world'. Celebrities create a buzz when they promote a new trend or current craze. The public listen, as they can now learn a lot more about celebrities as they follow their daily movements on social media. The public eye can gain an insight into the public figure's attitudes, values and beliefs with a simple click or tap of a screen. The public eye then mimics the actions, preference and lifestyles of their favourite celebrities. This is how the method of 'Buzz Marketing' works so well and is the reasoning behind why big corporations compete against one another to sign contracts with these public figures – they want to create the first 'buzz' in the market. \"Personally relevant meanings derived from celebrity and brand associations are important as they influence consumer motivation, preference and choice (Gutman, 1982) Creating a buzz is so important from a communicational marketing perspective as (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012) it shows how valuable \"pass-along\" benefits are from consumers talking about a buzz created around a product (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A., 2012).\n\nReceiver decoding-decoding\n\n\"Decoding is the process of transforming the sender's message back into thought\" (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). This explains the reasoning again of why choosing the right celebrity to endorse a product is so crucial. It is important that the company can create the product also in relation to the celebrity as the celebrity is not only a spokesman/ face of the brand but they are also a consumer of the product. \"\"Effective communication is more likely when there is some common ground between the two parties\".\" (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Because consumers \"humanize brands\" (Ambroise, Pantin-Sohler, Valette-Florence & Albert, 2014) the celebrity must fit with the brand. This highlights the importance of the match up between the celebrity's image and the brand's image (Batra and Homer, 2004).\n\nExample one:\nKim Kardashian promotes a lot of weight loss products as people are interested in how she loses her post-baby weight. Kim Kardashian uses her current situations and then endorses from there (Solomon, 2015). Kim Kardashian and her weight issues are constantly in the media. People are more likely to take notice of what she has to say as they believe that she has personal experience and is knowledgeable about the product and has been selected for that very reason.\n\nExample two:\nThe All Blacks are a winning side, therefore representing 'Adidas' as a winning product. People young and old follow the All Blacks and are conscious of all things concerned with the All Blacks – they are respected and idolised. The brand's emotional involvement and its relationship with good values, sportsmanship and team morale all contribute to its overall image and success. \"When brands establishing a relationship and connection to popular names in entertainment, sports, fashion, and other verticals, there is the potential to boost sales drastically, especially when the consumer believes the product or service is actually used by the celebrity him or herself\" (Belch, G. E., & Belch, M. A, 2012). Wearing Adidas is obviously not going to make the consumer have the athletic ability of an All Black but the product is aligned with all the winning attributes of the All Black.\n\nTouchpoints are crucial to a brand when it comes to marketing and advertising their product/service. Any point of contact where a business engages with a customer to exchange information about their good/service is considered a touchpoint. It targets the chosen market by taking advantage of the most effective channels to appeal to and entice this group to communicate their intended message. Brands need to think of the most optimal ways to get the word out about their good and the information surrounding it. Different touchpoints allow the brand to appeal to their specific market in the most direct way possible, which considers the particular targeted groups needs and wants out of accessing and receiving information about a product (Straker, K., Wrigley, C., & Rosemann, M. (2015)).\n\nIn relation to celebrity branding, if a company decides they want to use a famous and well-known celebrity to endorse their campaign, they would need to carefully pick what touchpoints they use to convey their brand to their consumers.\n\nTouchpoints are always evolving as the tastes and preferences of consumers are constantly changing and adapting to the technology and resources that are available. The traditional touchpoints that would have been relevant and effective in the 2000s could be greatly ineffective for marketing ten years later in the 2010s. The same as vital touchpoints marketers use now may have not existed a decade ago like all of the social media websites and apps. Traditional touchpoints began with radio, newspaper and television but now some of the most common touchpoints used in celebrity branding largely are through social media e.g. Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Tumblr and various other social media webpages. Now with the forever changing technology, people are ditching old touchpoints for newer and faster ones leading sources like newspapers to get printed less and less every year and TV marketing to be less effective as people now can skip past advertisements missing the endorsement and the message it was trying to convey. These new touchpoints are quicker, highly accessible and easy to use for the modern day person with their portable smartphone or computer – this has created celebrity endorsements to be incredibly popular on these sites through the celebrity posting a picture or status advertising the business and their products on their personal accounts. These social media sites give celebrity branding a significant boost and immense opportunities with millions of millions of accounts, creating an audience which is virtually endless (Bradic, 2015).\n\nAccording to the 'source credibility model' (Hovland, Jannis, & Kelley, 1953), much research and study collated on endorser effectiveness conclude \"that a celebrity generally has a greater impact on attitude change and purchase intention than a non-celebrity spokesman\" (Choi, S.A.M. and Rifon, N.J. (2012).) When people view these posts on the celebrity's personal social media account they therefore assume if the spokesman highly regards the good or service, this gains the consumers trust in the business and the purpose it serves.\n\nTo keep up with these changes, businesses who strategise using celebrity branding to advertise their campaigns will use the most obvious choice to reach their market. For example, if a brand is wanting to target the elderly it would make sense to put their celebrity marketing in radio or newspapers – though less used, still used by marketers to appeal to the tradition media users; whereas if they were targeting a younger market who are more social media and technology savvy then they would use websites like Instagram or Facebook to appeal to them and communicate their message.\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2354661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354661", "title": "Chad Gaudin", "text": "Chad Gaudin\n\nChad Edward Gaudin (; born March 24, 1983) is an American professional baseball pitcher for the Leones de Yucatán of the Mexican Baseball League. He has been used as both a starting pitcher and a reliever throughout his career, functioning as a \"swingman.\"\n\nGaudin has pitched in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Toronto Blue Jays, Oakland Athletics, Chicago Cubs, San Diego Padres, New York Yankees, Washington Nationals, Miami Marlins, and San Francisco Giants.\n\nGaudin attended Crescent City Baptist High School in Metairie, Louisiana. He earned All-State and district MVP in his junior and senior years.\n\nGaudin was selected by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays out of high school in the 34th round (1009th overall pick) of the 2001 Major League Baseball Draft. He signed on August 23, 2001, and did not play professionally until 2002. He played in Single-A in 2002 and recorded a 2.26 ERA which ranked him 10th in all of minor league baseball.\n\nOn July 15, 2003, in his first start after getting called up from the Single-A California League, Gaudin took the mound in the first game of a doubleheader for the Double-A Orlando Rays on the road against the Jacksonville Suns and threw a 7-inning perfect game, retiring all 21 batters he faced. (Two 7-inning games is the standard for a doubleheader in most minor leagues; Major League Baseball would later amend a rule recognizing only efforts of at least nine innings as official perfect games.) Gaudin made only two more starts and posted an 0.47 ERA for Orlando before Devil Rays' Manager Lou Piniella summoned him to the big league club.\n\nWhen Gaudin made his major league debut, he became the youngest Devil Ray in club history at 20 years and four months and was the 4th youngest player in the majors. He allowed one run in 2.1 innings in his debut on August 1, 2003, against the Kansas City Royals. After posting a very respectable 2–0 record and 3.60 ERA in 15 appearances (including 3 starts) in 2003 for the Devil Rays, he went 1–2 with a 4.85 ERA in 26 appearances (4 starts) in 2004 while splitting time with the Triple-A Durham Bulls.\n\nOn December 12, 2004, Gaudin was traded to the Toronto Blue Jays for backup catcher Kevin Cash. Although he pitched well as a starter at Triple-A Syracuse, he was just 1–3 with a 13.15 ERA in 5 appearances (3 starts) with the Blue Jays. Opponents had batted .470 against him in just 13 innings (31 hits).\n\nOn December 5, 2005, he was traded to the Oakland Athletics for a player to be named later, who later turned out to be outfielder Dustin Majewski.\nGaudin began the 2006 season for the Sacramento River Cats, the Athletics Triple-A team. He was recalled by the Athletics after posting an 0.36 ERA in 4 starts for the River Cats and pitched in relief for the rest of the season for the big league club. In his first season as an Athletic, he posted various career highs and his ERA (3.08) and opponents batting average were the lowest of his career. His inherited runners to score was 20 percent, which ranked fourth lowest in the American League.\n\nIn 2007, Gaudin was converted into a starter again when veteran Esteban Loaiza was on the disabled list to begin the season. He pitched in a team high and career high 34 starts, posting career highs in wins (11), innings pitched (199.1), strikeouts (154) and walks (100). His excellent performance as a starter in the 2007 season made him part of the new 'Big Three' that included Dan Haren and Joe Blanton.\n\nIn December 2007, Gaudin successfully had his sesamoid bone removed from the base of his big toe in a procedure called a sesamoidectomy. He was back on the mound pitching again within three months.\n\nGauding began the 2008 season in the rotation, appearing in 6 starts. On May 7, 2008, Gaudin was moved back into the bullpen. He went 5-3 in 26 games along with 6 starts for the A's before being traded.\n\nOn July 8, 2008, Gaudin was dealt along with Rich Harden to the Chicago Cubs in exchange for Sean Gallagher, Matt Murton, Eric Patterson, and minor league catcher Josh Donaldson.\n\nDespite posting a 4-2 record, Gaudin pitched poorly for the Cubs, posting an ERA over 6.00 after coming over from Oakland. Gaudin was released by the Cubs on April 5, 2009 after a disappointing second half.\n\nThe San Diego Padres signed him to a minor league contract on April 12, 2009 and assigned him to their Triple-A team, the Portland Beavers on April 14. He made his first start for the Padres against the Colorado Rockies on April 28. He gave up zero runs on 3 hits and received a no decision in a 4–3 Padres win.\n\nThrough 19 starts and 1 relief appearance, Gaudin was 4-10 with an ERA of 5.13. In 105.1 innings pitched, he had 105 strikeouts while also issuing 56 walks in the process.\n\nOn August 6, 2009, Gaudin was traded to the New York Yankees for a player to be named later, but instead the Padres took $100,000. With the Yankees, Gaudin filled a valuable role as a spot starter and relief pitcher, making six starts (all of which the Yankees won) and five relief appearances, recording a 3.43 ERA. He got his first championship ring after the Yankees won the 2009 World Series against the Philadelphia Phillies.\n\nGaudin was released by the Yankees on March 25, 2010.\n\nOn March 28, 2010, Gaudin signed a major league deal with the Oakland Athletics. He was designated for assignment on May 17 and released on May 21. In 12 games, he had an 8.83 ERA for the Athletics.\n\nOn May 26, 2010 Gaudin was re-signed by the Yankees. He pitched in 30 games with a 1-2 record and a 4.50 ERA. On November 2, 2010 Gaudin was outrighted to the minor leagues and elected free agency.\n\nOn December 17, Gaudin signed a minor-league contract with the Washington Nationals. He made 10 appearances for the Nationals, recording 6.48 ERA in innings before being designated for assignment on July 19, 2011. He was released on July 21.\n\nGaudin signed a minor league contract with the Toronto Blue Jays on August 5. He was 2-3 with a 6.14 ERA for the AAA Las Vegas 51s.\n\nOn January 4, 2012, Gaudin signed a minor league contract with the Miami Marlins. The next day, he received an invitation to spring training by the Marlins. Gaudin was used as a long reliever. He finished the year with 69.1 innings pitched, a 4.54 ERA,a 1.41 WHIP, and 57 strikeouts.\n\nGaudin signed a minor league deal with the San Francisco Giants on December 13, 2012. On March 26, 2013, it was reported that Gaudin had his contract purchased and had been added to the Major League roster as the final piece of the bullpen. The \"San Jose Mercury News\" reported that \"Gaudin will be the long man and a swing man of sorts, capable of pitching several innings at a time or even spot-starting.\"\n\nGaudin pitched out of the bullpen most of the season, while also making 12 starts for the Giants. His record finished at 5-2 and a 3.06 ERA, the lowest of his career. He struck out 88 batters in 97 innings.\n\nGaudin signed a minor league deal with the Philadelphia Phillies on January 21, 2014. The Phillies released him on February 13 when he failed a physical.\n\nOn February 25, 2015, Gaudin signed a minor league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. He battled a recurring bout of nerve irritation during spring training and did not make the club, instead he was shut down for a period to recover. He wound up undergoing carpal tunnel release surgery and spent the entire season rehabbing in Arizona.\n\nOn April 1, 2016, Gaudin signed with the Pericos de Puebla of the Mexican Baseball League (LMB). As the closer he saved 33 games in 36 opportunities and then added 7 more saves in the playoffs - including the final game - as the Pericos won their first LMB Championship in 31 seasons. He was also named to the LMB All-Star team. He finished the year with a record of 2-0 with a 1.64 earned run average while striking out 48 batters and walking only 13 in 44 innings pitched.\n\nOn February 21, 2017, Gaudin, along with Daric Barton, Manny Rodriguez, Nyjer Morgan, Rodolfo Amador, and Willy Taveras were traded to the Acereros de Monclova in exchange for RHP Joaquín Lara. He was released on April 14, 2018. \n\nOn April 23, 2018, Gaudin signed with the Leones de Yucatán of the Mexican Baseball League.\n\nGaudin works with four pitches. His main one is a four-seam fastball at 90–93 mph. He also has a two-seamer at 89–92, a slider at 79–82, and a changeup at 86–89. His slider is mainly used against right-handed hitters (especially with 2 strikes), while his changeup is used almost exclusively against lefties.\n\nGaudin is married to Syndal Gorden since January 29, 2011. The couple appeared on an episode of \"House Hunters\".\n\nSyndal chose her wedding gown on an episode of Say Yes to the Dress entitled The Group Calls It. She was accompanied to Kleinfeld's by Yankee wives Amber (Mrs. C.C.) Sabathia and Karen (Mrs. A.J.) Burnett and a friend, Tara Neal, who picked her dress for her. When the episode was aired, Gaudin was with the Nationals.\n\nGaudin learned how to throw a slider in Little League, when a coach showed him the curveball grip.\n\nIn July 2013, it was reported that Gaudin had been charged with lewdness stemming from an incident in January. While in the emergency room of Desert Springs Hospital, it was alleged that Gaudin groped a woman while she was laying on a gurney. In September he pleaded no contest to a reduced charge of disorderly conduct and was sentenced to 100 hours of community service and impulse control counselling.\n\n, or Retrosheet, or Baseball Reference (Minor and Mexican Leagues), or Pelota Binaria (Venezuelan Winter League)\n"}
{"id": "32705833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32705833", "title": "Christopher Barnewall", "text": "Christopher Barnewall\n\nSir Christopher Barnewall (1522–1575) was a leading Anglo-Irish statesman of the Pale in the 1560s and 1570s. He was the effective Leader of the Opposition in the Irish House of Commons in the Parliament of 1568–71. He is remembered for building Turvey House, where he sheltered the future Catholic martyr Edmund Campion, for his impressive tomb in Lusk Church, and for the eulogy to him in Holinshed's Chronicles, which was written by his son-in-law Richard Stanyhurst.\n\nHe was the son of Patrick Barnewall, Solicitor General for Ireland (died 1552), and Anne Luttrell, daughter of Richard Luttrell. Through both his paternal grandparents he was closely related to the senior branch of the Barnewall family, who held the title Baron Trimleston. His father, a close associate of Thomas Cromwell, was a key figure in the Irish administration between 1535 and 1542. Patrick initially opposed the Dissolution of the Monasteries, but changed his mind in time to profit handsomely from the Dissolution, acquiring Grace Dieu Abbey in Dublin and Knocktopher in Kilkenny. Christopher himself built Turvey House near the ruins of Grace Dieu, reputedly from the Abbey's stones.\n\nUnlike his father and his uncle Thomas Luttrell, who both went on to become eminent judges, he did not practice at the Irish Bar. Nor was he a Bencher of the King's Inn, which his father had helped to found, although he was a party to the renewal of the lease of the Inn from the Crown in 1567. He may however have had some legal training, since Thomas Butler, 10th Earl of Ormonde, of whom he was a close associate, appointed Barnewall in 1556 as steward and receiver of all the Earl's lands within the Pale.\n\nHe sat in the Irish House of Commons as member for Dublin county in the Parliaments of 1559-1560 and 1568-71, and was Sheriff of County Dublin in 1560. He played a major role in Elizabeth I's second Irish Parliament, especially in the crucial year 1569. He emerged as the effective leader of the Anglo-Irish landowners of the Pale, who were opposed to the Court party which supported to the Lord Deputy of Ireland, Sir Henry Sidney. His supporters attempted to have Barnewall chosen as Speaker of the House of Commons but he was defeated by the Crown candidate James Stanyhurst. Barnewall assumed the role of Leader of the Opposition, concentrating his assault on the composition of the House, which he alleged had been \"packed\" with Crown supporters; in particular he objected to the presence of certain English members who represented boroughs where they did not live, and which in many cases they had never even visited. He brought a legal challenge to the validity of the House's composition, but although the judges ruled in his favour on two technical points, he was not successful in excluding the absentee members, and Sidney was able to get his program of legislation through Parliament without serious difficulty.\n\nAs a Member of Parliament Barnewall was required under the \"Act of Supremacy (Ireland) 1560\" to acknowledge Elizabeth I as head of the Church of Ireland. This was an advantageous step since his family had benefitted greatly from the suppression of the religious houses, and, whatever their private religious beliefs, they clearly had no wish to lose any of the lands which they had acquired. Christopher's own private sympathies were undoubtedly with the Catholic faith, which his son Patrick in later years openly championed. Christopher agreed to shelter the future martyr Edmund Campion in 1569, at the request of Richard Stanyhurst (son of James), who was Campion's pupil. Campion spent several weeks at Turvey House and later acknowledged Barnewall's role in saving his life. James Stanyhurst was also involved in sheltering Campion , which suggests that despite their sharp political rivalry, he and Barnewall were prepared to cooperate on certain issues.\n\nBarnewall died in 1575 and was buried in Lusk Church. His widow Marion, who remarried Sir Lucas Dillon, commissioned an impressive tomb for her first husband, dated 1589, which still exists. Her second husband apparently paid for it, suggesting that he shared the generally high opinion of Barnewall's character. Marion died in 1607 and was buried in the same tomb.\n\nHolinshed's Chronicles contain a remarkable tribute to Barnewall; the warmly personal tone is explained by the fact that it was written by Richard Stanyhurst, who know Barnewall all his life and married his daughter Janet:\n\nthe lantern and light as well of his house as of that part of Ireland where he dwelt, who being sufficiently well furnished with the knowledge of the Latin tongue as of the common law of England, was zealously bent on the reformation of his country; a deep and a wise gentleman, spare of speech and therewithal pithy, wholly addicted to gravity...very upright in dealing, measuring all his affairs with the safety of conscience, as true as steel...fast to his friend, stout in a good quarrel, a great householder...of nature mild, rather choosing to pleasure where he might harm than harm where he might pleasure.\n\nBarnewall married Marion Sherle, daughter of Richard Sherle of Shallan, County Meath. They had nineteen children, of whom thirteen reached adulthood:\n\n\nLady Barnewall remarried the prominent judge Sir Lucas Dillon, who was father (by his first wife) of Eleanor's husband, James Dillon, 1st Earl of Roscommon, as well as eleven other children.\n"}
{"id": "26795515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26795515", "title": "Clara Germana Cele", "text": "Clara Germana Cele\n\nClara Germana Cele was a Christian woman, who in 1906, was said to be possessed by a demon.\n\nShe is said to have been possessed when she was a sixteen-year-old school girl at St. Michael's Mission in Natal, South Africa. The girl was an orphan of African origin and was baptised as an infant. At the age of sixteen, the girl made a pact with Satan and this is said to be the cause of her demonic possession. Clara later revealed this information to her confessor, Father Hörner Erasmus. In an account written by a nun, Clara was said to be able to speak languages of which she had no previous knowledge. This fact was also witnessed by others, who recorded that she \"understood Polish, German, French and all other languages.\" The nun reported that Clara demonstrated clairvoyance by revealing the most intimate secrets and transgressions of people with whom she had no contact. Moreover, Clara could not bear the presence of blessed objects and seemed imbued with extraordinary strength and ferocity, often hurling nuns about the convent rooms and beating them up. The nun reported that the girl's cries had a savage bestiality that astonished those around her. In regards to the girls voice, an attending nun even wrote: No animal had ever made such sounds. Neither the lions of East Africa nor the angry bulls. At times, it sounded like a veritable herd of wild beasts orchestrated by Satan had formed a hellish choir.\n\nAttending nun of St. Michael's Mission, Natal, South Africa\n\nThe girl, according to some, was said to have levitated five feet in the air, sometimes vertically and sometimes horizontally; when sprinkled with holy water, the girl is reported to have come out of this state of her satanic possession.\n\nAccording to a \"Lutheran Pastoral Handbook\", one possessing these symptoms is an indication that an individual is truly possessed, rather than suffering from a mental illness. Consequently, two Roman Catholic priests, Rev. Mansueti (Director of the St. Michael's Mission) and Rev. Erasmus (her confessor), were appointed to perform an exorcism on Clara Germana Cele; this deliverance lasted for two days. During the exorcism, Clara's first action was to knock the Holy Bible from the priest's hands and grab his stole in an attempt to choke him with it. At the end of the exorcism, it was said that the demon was forced out and the girl was healed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3684583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3684583", "title": "Consul (representative)", "text": "Consul (representative)\n\nA consul is an official representative of the government of one state in the territory of another, normally acting to assist and protect the citizens of the consul's own country, and to facilitate trade and friendship between the people of the two countries. \n\nA consul is distinguished from an ambassador, the latter being a representative from one head of state to another. There can be only one ambassador from one country to another, representing the first country's head of state to that of the second, and his or her duties revolve around diplomatic relations between the two countries; however, there may be several consuls, one in each of several major cities, providing assistance with bureaucratic issues to both the citizens of the consul's own country traveling or living abroad and to the citizens of the country in which the consul resides who wish to travel to or trade with the consul's country.\n\nA less common usage is an administrative consul, who takes a governing role and is appointed by a country that has colonised or occupied another.\n\nIn classical Greece, some of the functions of the modern consul were fulfilled by a proxenos. Unlike the modern position, this was a citizen of the host polity (in Greece, a city-state). The proxenos was usually a wealthy merchant who had socio-economic ties with another city and who helped its citizens when they were in trouble in his own city. The position of proxenos was often hereditary in a particular family. Modern honorary consuls fulfill a function that is to a degree similar to that of the ancient Greek institution.\n\nConsuls were the highest magistrates of the Roman Republic and Roman Empire. The term was revived by the Republic of Genoa, which, unlike Rome, bestowed it on various state officials, not necessarily restricted to the highest. Among these were Genoese officials stationed in various Mediterranean ports, whose role included duties similar to those of the modern consul, i. e. helping Genoese merchants and sailors in difficulties with the local authorities.\n\nThe \"consolat de mar\" was an institution established under the reign of Peter IV of Aragon in the fourteenth century, and spread to 47 locations throughout the Mediterranean. It was primarily a judicial body, administering maritime and commercial law as \"Lex Mercatoria\". Although the \"consolat de mar\" was established by the Corts General (parliament) of the Crown of Aragon, the consuls were independent from the King. This distinction between consular and diplomatic functions remains (at least formally) to this day. Modern consuls retain limited judicial powers to settle disputes on ships from their country (notably regarding the payment of wages to sailors).\n\nThe \"consulado de mercaderes\" was set up in 1543 in Seville as a merchant guild to control trade with Latin America. As such, it had branches in the principal cities of the Spanish colonies.\n\nThe connection of \"consul\" with trade and commercial law is retained in French. In Francophone countries, a \"juge consulaire\" (consular judge) is a non-professional judge elected by the chamber of commerce to settle commercial disputes in the first instance (in France, sitting in panels of three; in Belgium, in conjunction with a professional magistrate).\n\nThe office of a consul is a consulate and is usually subordinate to the state's main representation in the capital of that foreign country (host state), usually an \"embassy\" or – between Commonwealth countries – \"high commission\". Like the term \"embassy\", \"consulate\" may refer not only to the office of consul, but also to the building occupied by the consul and his or her staff. The consulate may share premises with the embassy itself.\n\nA consul of the highest rank is termed a \"consul-general\", and is appointed to a \"consulate-general\". There are typically one or more \"deputy consuls-general\", \"consuls\", \"vice-consuls\" and \"consular agents\" working under the consul-general. A country may appoint more than one consul-general to another nation. \n\nConsuls of various ranks may have specific legal authority for certain activities, such as notarizing documents. As such, diplomatic personnel with other responsibilities may receive consular letters patent (commissions). Aside from those outlined in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, there are few formal requirements outlining what a consular official must do. For example, for some countries, consular officials may be responsible for the issue of visas; other countries may limit \"consular services\" to providing assistance to compatriots, legalization of documents, etc. Nonetheless, consulates proper will be headed by consuls of various ranks, even if such officials have little or no connection with the more limited sense of consular service.\n\nActivities of a consulate include protecting the interests of their citizens temporarily or permanently resident in the host country, issuing passports; issuing visas to foreigners and public diplomacy. However, the principal role of a consulate lies traditionally in promoting trade—assisting companies to invest and to import and export goods and services both inwardly to their home country and outward to their host country. Although it is not admitted publicly, consulates, like embassies, may also gather intelligence information from the assigned country.\n\nContrary to popular belief, many of the staff of consulates may be career diplomats, but they do not generally have diplomatic immunity unless they are also accredited as such. Immunities and privileges for consuls and accredited staff of consulates (consular immunity) are generally limited to actions undertaken in their official capacity and, with respect to the consulate itself, to those required for official duties. In practice, the extension and application of consular privileges and immunities can differ widely from country to country.\n\nConsulates are more numerous than diplomatic missions, such as embassies. Ambassadors are posted only in a foreign nation's capital (but exceptionally outside the country, as in the case of a multiple mandate; e.g., a minor power may accredit a single ambassador with several neighbouring states of modest relative importance that are not considered important allies). \n\nConsuls are posted in a nation's capital, and in other cities throughout that country, especially centres of economic activity and cities where large populations of citizens from the consul's home country reside (expatriates). In the United States, for example, most countries have a consulate-general in New York City, (the home of the United Nations), and some have consulates-general in several major cities, such as Atlanta, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami, or San Francisco. Many countries have multiple consular offices in nations such as Germany, Russia, Canada, Brazil, and Australia.\n\nConsulates are subordinate posts of their home country's diplomatic mission (typically an embassy, in the capital city of the host country). Diplomatic missions are established in international law under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, while consulates-general and consulates are established in international law under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. Formally, at least within the US system, the consular career (ranking in descending order: consul-general, consul, vice-consul, honorary consul) forms a different hierarchy from the diplomats in the strict sense. However, it is common for individuals to be transferred from one hierarchy to the other, and for consular officials to serve in a capital carrying out strictly consular duties within the \"consular section\" of a diplomatic post; e.g., within an embassy.\n\nBetween Commonwealth countries, both diplomatic and consular activities may be undertaken by a High Commission in the capital, although larger Commonwealth nations generally also have consulates and consulates-general in major cities. For example, Toronto in Canada, Sydney in Australia and Auckland, New Zealand, are of greater economic importance than their respective national capitals, hence the need for consulates there.\n\nWhen Hong Kong was under British administration, diplomatic missions of Commonwealth countries, such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand, India, Malaysia, and Singapore were known as commissions. After the transfer of sovereignty to China in 1997, they were renamed consulates-general, with the last commissioner becoming consul-general. However, the Australian commission had been renamed the consulate-general in 1986.\n\nOwing to its status as a special administrative region of China, some countries' consulates-general in Hong Kong report directly to their respective foreign ministries, rather than to their embassies in Beijing, such as those of Canada, the United Kingdom and United States.\n\nA consul general is an official who heads a consulate general and is a consul of the highest rank serving at a particular location. A consul general may also be responsible for consular districts which contain other, subordinate consular offices within a country. The consul general serves as a representative who speaks on behalf of his or her state in the country to which he or she is located, although ultimate jurisdiction over the right to speak on behalf of a home country within another country ultimately belongs to the single ambassador. It is abbreviated \"CG\", and the plural form is 'consuls general'. In most embassies, the consular section is headed by a consul general who is a diplomat and a member of the ambassador's country team.\n\nSome consuls are not career officials of the represented state at all; some are locally engaged staff with the nationality of the sending country, and in smaller cities, or in cities that are very distant from full-time diplomatic missions, a foreign government which feels that some form of representation is nevertheless desirable may appoint a person who has not hitherto been part of their diplomatic service to fulfill this role. Such a consul may well combine the job with his or her own (often commercial) private activities, and in some instances may not even be a citizen of the sending country. Such consular appointments are usually given the title of \"honorary consul\".\n\nIn addition, the U.S. Secretary of State (in a memo issued on August 6, 2003) states the following concerning honorary consuls:\n\nAs a matter of U.S. policy, honorary consular officers recognized by the U.S. Government are American citizens, or permanent resident aliens who perform consular services on a part-time basis. The limited immunity afforded honorary consular officers is specified in Article 71 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations (VCCR). Such individuals do not enjoy personal inviolability, and may be arrested pending trial if circumstances should otherwise warrant. However, appropriate steps are provided to accord to such officers the protection required by virtue of their official position. In addition, the consular archives and documents of a consular post headed by an honorary consular officer are inviolable at all times, and wherever they may be, provided they are kept separate from other papers and documents of a private or commercial nature relating to other activities of an honorary consular officer or persons working with that consular officer.\n\nDespite their other roles, honorary consular officers (in the widest use of the term) in some instances also have responsibility for the welfare of citizens of the appointing country within their bailiwick. For example, the Embassy of Finland states that the tasks of Finland's Honorary Consulate include monitoring the rights of Finns and permanent residents of Finland residing in the area in which the consulate is located, providing advice and guidance for distressed Finnish citizens and permanent residents traveling abroad to that area, and assisting them in their contacts with local authorities or the nearest Finnish embassy or consulate. Certain types of notarized certificates can be acquired through an honorary consul. Together with diplomatic missions, an honorary consul promotes economic and cultural relations between Finland and the country in question, and takes part in strengthening Finland’s image abroad. An honorary consul can advise Finnish companies, for instance, in obtaining information about local business culture and in finding cooperation partners.\n\nIn the social life of 19th-century Lübeck as depicted in Thomas Mann's novel \"Buddenbrooks\" – based on Mann's thorough personal knowledge of his own birthplace – an appointment as the consul of a foreign country was a source of considerable social prestige among the city's merchant elite. As depicted in the book, the position of a consul for a particular country was in practice hereditary in a specific family, whose mansion bore the represented country's coat of arms, and with that country confirming the consul's son or other heir in the position on the death of the previous consul. As repeatedly referenced by Mann, a consul's wife was known as \"Consulin\" and continued to bear that title even on the death of her husband. Characters in the book are mentioned as consuls for Denmark, the Netherlands and Portugal.\n\n\"Main article:\" Consuls in the Foreign Service of the USA\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17156897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17156897", "title": "Darrell Castle", "text": "Darrell Castle\n\nDarrell Lane Castle (born October 11, 1948) is an American politician and attorney from Memphis, Tennessee. He was the Constitution Party's nominee for Vice President of the United States in the 2008 presidential election and for President in the 2016 presidential election. As the presidential nominee, Castle received 202,348 votes, and placed sixth nationwide.\n\nCastle grew up in Kingsport, Tennessee. He attended Ketron High School and East Tennessee State University (ETSU), graduating in 1966 and 1970, respectively. At ETSU, he earned a B.S. degree, double-majoring in political science and history.\n\nCastle then became a commissioned officer in the U.S. Marine Corps, serving for four years and attaining the rank of first lieutenant. After his discharge, he returned to ETSU and began his graduate study of history. He then attended the law school at Memphis State University and earned a J.D. in 1979.\n\nCastle has served as a deacon and deacon chairman in his local church. In 1998, he and his wife founded Mia’s Children Foundation, a Christian mission in Bucharest, Romania which ministers to homeless Romani children.\n\nUpon receiving his law degree in Memphis, Castle became an attorney. In 1984, he opened a private firm which later grew into Darrell Castle and Associates. Since then, Castle has opened firms in Milwaukee, Detroit, and Kansas City, Missouri. His firms focus on consumer bankruptcy and personal injury, but also represent clients in the areas of social security, disability, and workers' compensation.\n\nAt the 2008 Constitution Party National Convention in Kansas City, Missouri, Baptist pastor Chuck Baldwin defeated former Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs Alan Keyes to win the party's nomination. The party then nominated Castle to the ticket as its vice presidential candidate. Baldwin had been the Constitution Party nominee for Vice President in 2004.\n\nAt the 2012 Constitution Party National Convention in Nashville, Tennessee, Castle declared his candidacy for the party's presidential nomination one day prior to the nomination vote, citing requests from several delegates that he seek the nomination. He finished as runner-up to former United States Congressman Virgil Goode, who won the nomination on the first ballot.\n\nCastle is the former National Vice-Chairman of the Constitution Party.\n\nCastle was a candidate for the Constitution Party's 2016 presidential nomination, but withdrew his candidacy in January 2016 because of unspecified health concerns. However, on the eve of the 2016 nominating convention, Richard Winger of \"Ballot Access News\" reported that Castle had re-entered the nomination process.\n\nOn April 16, 2016, Castle secured the presidential nomination for the Constitution Party. He vowed, if elected, to get the United States out of the United Nations and NATO. \"Our borders are worth defending. If we can secure the borders of Korea and Germany, then we can secure the borders of the United States\", said Castle. He made no reference to previous health concerns.\n\nCastle's campaign received endorsements from Chuck Baldwin, Glenn Beck and the Georgia Right to Life PAC.\n\nAs of June 30, 2016, Castle had raised $10,289.\n\nCastle's campaign saw only limited inclusion in opinion polls. Some state polls found a level of support between 1% and 3%.\n\nIn an interview with \"Liberty Hangout\", Castle has said he is more libertarian than 2016 Libertarian presidential nominee Gary Johnson. \n\nHe describes himself as pro-life, and opposes federal funding of Planned Parenthood. Castle supports funding of space exploration. He opposes the war on drugs. When it comes to prostitution, gambling, smoking, polygamous relationships, or any other activities made by consenting adults, Castle says he sees no role for the federal government to get involved. He wants decriminalization of cannabis use, however opposes full legalization. He favors securing the borders. He has described his foreign policy views as non-interventionist. He favors the United States withdrawing from the United Nations, NATO, TPP, NAFTA, CAFTA-DR, GATT, and WTO. He favors ending the Federal Reserve.\n\nOn June 12, 2016, Castle directly indicated a number of his political positions on the website iSideWith, which seeks to match voters with the candidates whose positions most closely match users' policy preferences as determined by a multiple-choice survey. Castle presents himself as pro-gun and pro-Second Amendment, indicating that he believes there should not be \"more restrictions on the current process of purchasing a gun\" and is against banning individuals on the no-fly list from \"purchasing guns and ammunition.\" \n\nWhile being completely opposed to it morally, Castle explicitly indicated that same-sex marriage is among the consensual activities in which he believes the government should not be involved. He opposes compulsory vaccination, and has endorsed the requirement of GMO labeling, stating that \"people have a right to know what is in their food\". He is against Common Core standards. He believes that felons should be allowed to vote, \"but only after completing their sentences or parole/probation\". He favors photographic voter identification requirements as a means of preventing voter fraud. Castle has expressed opposition to the retirement of solitary confinement for juvenile prisoners, on the grounds that the practice \"is necessary for violent criminals who are a danger to themselves and other inmates\". He believes that constitutional rights extend to foreign nationals suspected of terrorism, but only \"inside the United States and not abroad\".\n\nCastle believes \"physically and mentally capable adults on welfare\" should be required to work. However, he opposes drug tests for welfare recipients as an infringement of privacy. He has expressed opposition to any government regulation of employee compensation by private businesses. He does not believe that illegal immigrants should have access to government healthcare or in-state tuition rates. He is against the Affordable Care Act. He opposes governmental environmental regulations.\n\nCastle opposes term limits for members of Congress, believing that elections suffice to test the effectiveness of officeholders.\n\n"}
{"id": "57627347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57627347", "title": "Donna Dasko", "text": "Donna Dasko\n\nDonna Dasko (born August 19, 1951) is a Canadian senator from Ontario. She was appointed to the Senate on June 6, 2018.\n\nPrior to her appointment, Dasko was a senior vice-president of the polling firm Environics, she is a fellow at the University of Toronto's School of Public Policy and Governance and teaches in the master's program.\n"}
{"id": "17911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17911", "title": "Edward Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany", "text": "Edward Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany\n\nEdward John Moreton Drax Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany (; 24 July 1878 – 25 October 1957), was an Anglo-Irish writer and dramatist; his work, mostly in the fantasy genre, was published under the name Lord Dunsany. More than ninety books of his work were published in his lifetime, and both original work and compilations have continued to appear. Dunsany's œuvre includes many hundreds of published short stories, as well as plays, novels and essays. He achieved great fame and success with his early short stories and plays, and during the 1910s was considered one of the greatest living writers of the English-speaking world; he is today best known for his 1924 fantasy novel \"The King of Elfland's Daughter\".\n\nBorn and raised in London, to the second-oldest title (created 1439) in the Irish peerage, Dunsany lived much of his life at what may be Ireland's longest-inhabited house, Dunsany Castle near Tara, worked with W. B. Yeats and Lady Gregory, received an honorary doctorate from Trinity College, Dublin, was chess and pistol-shooting champion of Ireland, and travelled and hunted extensively. He died in Dublin after an attack of appendicitis.\n\nEdward Plunkett (\"Dunsany\"), known to his family as \"Eddie,\" was the first son of John William Plunkett, 17th Baron of Dunsany (1853–1899), and his wife, Ernle Elizabeth Louisa Maria Grosvenor Ernle-Erle-Drax, Ernle Elizabeth Louisa Maria Grosvenor Burton (1855–1916).\n\nFrom a historically wealthy and famous family, Lord Dunsany was related to many well-known Irish figures. He was a kinsman of the Catholic Saint Oliver Plunkett, the martyred Archbishop of Armagh, whose ring and crozier head are still held by the Dunsany family. He was also related to the prominent Anglo-Irish unionist, and later nationalist / Home Rule politician Sir Horace Plunkett, and George Count Plunkett, Papal Count and Republican politician, father of Joseph Plunkett, executed for his part in the 1916 Rising.\n\nHis mother was a cousin of Sir Richard Burton, and he inherited from her considerable height, being 6' 4\". The Countess of Fingall, wife of Dunsany's cousin, the Earl of Fingall, wrote a best-selling account of the life of the aristocracy in Ireland in the late 19th century and early 20th century, called \"Seventy Years Young\".\n\nPlunkett's only grown sibling, a younger brother, from whom he was estranged from around 1916, for reasons not fully clear but connected to his mother's will, was the noted British naval officer Sir Reginald Drax. Another, younger, brother died in infancy.\nEdward Plunkett grew up at the family properties, most notably Dunstall Priory in Shoreham, Kent, and Dunsany Castle in County Meath, but also family homes such as in London. His schooling was at Cheam, Eton College and finally the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, which he entered in 1896.\n\nThe title passed to him at his father's death at a fairly young age, in 1899, and the young Lord Dunsany returned to Dunsany Castle after war duty, in 1901. In that year he was also confirmed as an elector for the Representative Peers for Ireland in the House of Lords.\n\nIn 1903, he met Lady Beatrice Child Villiers (1880–1970), youngest daughter of The 7th Earl of Jersey (head of the Jersey banking family), who was then living at Osterley Park, and they were married in 1904. Their only child, Randal, was born in 1906. Beatrice was supportive of Dunsany's interests, and assisted him in his writing, typing his manuscripts, helping to select work for his collections, including the 1954 retrospective short story collection, and overseeing his literary heritage after his death.\n\nThe Dunsanys were socially active in both Dublin and London, and travelled between their homes in Meath, London and Kent, other than during World Wars I and II, and the Irish War of Independence. Dunsany himself circulated with many other literary figures of the time. To many of these in Ireland he was first introduced by his uncle, the co-operative pioneer Sir Horace Plunkett, who also helped to manage his estate and investments for a time. He was friendly with, for example, George William Russell, Oliver St. John Gogarty and, for a time, W. B. Yeats. He also socialised at times with George Bernard Shaw, H.G. Wells and was a friend of Rudyard Kipling.\n\nIn 1910 Dunsany commissioned a two-storey extension to Dunsany Castle, with a billiards room, bedrooms and other facilities. The billiards room includes the crests of all the Lords Dunsany up to the 18th.\n\nDunsany served as a Second Lieutenant in the Coldstream Guards during the Second Boer War.\n\nHe volunteered in the First World War, and was appointed Captain in the Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers. He was stationed for some time at Ebrington Barracks in Derry. Having heard of disturbances in Dublin in 1916, during the Easter Rising, while on leave, he drove in to offer assistance and was wounded, with a bullet lodged in his skull. After recovery at Jervis Street Hospital, and later what was then the King George V Hospital (now St. Bricin's Military Hospital), he returned to duty. His military belt was lost in this episode and was later used at the burial of Michael Collins. Having been refused forward positioning in 1916, being listed as valuable as a trainer, in the latter stages of the war he spent time in the trenches, and in the very last period wrote propaganda material for the War Office with MI7b(1). At Dunsany Castle there is a book of wartime photos with lost members of his command marked.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Dunsany signed up for the Irish Army Reserve and the British Home Guard, the two countries' local defence forces, and was especially active in Shoreham, Kent, the most-bombed village in England during the Battle of Britain.\n\nDunsany's fame arose chiefly from his prolific writings, and he was involved with the Irish Literary Revival. Supporting the Revival, Dunsany was a major donor to the Abbey Theatre, and he moved in Irish literary circles. He was well-acquainted with W. B. Yeats (who rarely acted as editor, but gathered and published a Dunsany selection), Lady Gregory, Percy French, \"AE\" Russell, Oliver St John Gogarty, Padraic Colum (with whom he jointly wrote a play) and others. He befriended and supported Francis Ledwidge to whom he gave the use of his library and Mary Lavin.\n\nDunsany made his first literary tour to the United States in 1919, and made further such visits right up to the 1950s, in the early years mostly to the eastern seaboard, later notably to California.\n\nDunsany's own work, and contribution to the Irish literary heritage, was recognised through an honorary degree from Trinity College, Dublin.\n\nIn 1940, Dunsany was appointed Byron Professor of English in Athens University, Greece. Having reached Athens by a circuitous route, he was so successful that he was offered a post as Professor of English in Istanbul. However, he had to be evacuated due to the German invasion of Greece in April 1941, returning home by an even more complex route than he had come on, his travels forming a basis for a long poem published in book form (A Journey, in 5 cantos: The Battle of Britain, The Battle of Greece, The Battle of the Mediterranean, Battles Long Ago, The Battle of the Atlantic; Special edition January 1944). Olivia Manning's character, \"Lord Pinkrose\", in her novel sequence, the \"Fortunes of War\", was a mocking portrait of Dunsany during this period.\n\nIn 1947, Dunsany transferred his Meath estate to his son and heir under a trust, and settled in Kent, at his Shoreham house, Dunstall Priory and farm, not far from the home of Rudyard Kipling, a friend. He visited Ireland only occasionally thereafter, and engaged actively in life in Shoreham and London. He also began a new period of visits to the United States, notably California, as recounted in Hazel Littlefield-Smith's biographical \"Dunsany, King of Dreams.\"\n\nIn 1957, Lord Dunsany became ill while eating with the Earl and Countess of Fingall at Dunsany, in what proved to be an attack of appendicitis, and died in hospital in Dublin at the age of 79. He had directed that he be buried in the churchyard of the ancient church of St. Peter and St. Paul, Shoreham, Kent, in memory of shared war times. His funeral was attended by a wide range of family (including the Pakenhams, Jerseys and Fingals) and Shoreham figures, and representatives of his old regiment and various bodies in which he had taken an interest. A memorial service was held at Kilmessan in Meath, with a reading of Crossing the Bar which was noted as coinciding with a passing flock of geese.\n\nLady Beatrice survived Lord Dunsany, living on primarily at Shoreham, overseeing his literary legacy until her death in 1970, while their son, Randal, succeeded him in the Barony, and was in turn succeeded by his grandson, the artist Edward Plunkett, to whom literary rights passed directly.\n\nAside from his literary work, Dunsany was a keen chess player, set chess puzzles for journals including \"The Times\" (of London), played José Raúl Capablanca to a draw (in a simultaneous exhibition), and also invented Dunsany's Chess, an asymmetric chess variant that is notable for not involving any fairy pieces, unlike many variants that require the player to learn unconventional piece movements. He was president of both the Irish Chess Union and the Kent County Chess Association for some years, and of Sevenoaks Chess Club for 54 years.\n\nDunsany was a keen horseman and hunter, for many years hosting the hounds of a local hunt, as well as hunting in parts of Africa, and sportsman, and was at one time the pistol-shooting champion of Ireland.\n\nDunsany also campaigned for animal rights, being known especially for his opposition to the \"docking\" of dogs' tails, and was president of the West Kent branch of the RSPCA in his later years.\n\nHe enjoyed cricket, provided the local cricket ground situated near Dunsany Crossroads, and later played for and presided at Shoreham Cricket Club in Kent.\n\nHe was a supporter of Scouting over many years, serving as President of the Sevenoaks district Boy Scouts Association. He also supported the amateur drama group, the Shoreham Players.\n\nDunsany provided support for the British Legion in both Ireland and Kent, including grounds in Trim and poetry for the Irish branch's annual memorial service on a number of occasions.\n\nDunsany was a prolific writer, penning short stories, novels, plays, poetry, essays and autobiography, and publishing over 90 books in his lifetime, not including individual plays. Books have continued to appear, with more than 120 having issued as of 2017. Dunsany's works have been published in many languages.\n\nThe then Edward Plunkett began his authorial career in the late 1890s, with a few published verses, such as \"Rhymes from a Suburb\" and \"The Spirit of the Bog\", but he made a lasting impression in 1905 when he burst onto the publishing scene, writing as Lord Dunsany, with the well-received collection \"The Gods of Pegāna.\"\n\nDunsany's most notable fantasy short stories were published in collections from 1905 to 1919, though fantasy as a genre did not yet exist, so they were just a curious form of literature. He paid for the publication of the first collection, \"The Gods of Pegāna,\" earning a commission on sales. This he never again had to do, the vast majority of his extensive writings selling.\n\nThe stories in his first two books, and perhaps the beginning of his third, were set within an invented world, Pegāna, with its own gods, history and geography. Starting with this book, Dunsany's name is linked to that of Sidney Sime, his chosen artist, who illustrated much of his work, notably until 1922.\n\nDunsany's style varied significantly throughout his writing career. Prominent Dunsany scholar S. T. Joshi has described these shifts as Dunsany moving on after he felt he had exhausted the potential of a style or medium. From the naïve fantasy of his earliest writings, through his early short story work in 1904–1908, he turned to the self-conscious fantasy of \"The Book of Wonder\" in 1912, in which he almost seems to be parodying his lofty early style.\n\nEach of his collections varies in mood; \"A Dreamer's Tales\" varies from the wistfulness of \"Blagdaross\" to the horrors of \"Poor Old Bill\" and \"Where the Tides Ebb and Flow\" to the social satire of \"The Day of the Poll.\"\n\nThe opening paragraph of \"The Hoard of the Gibbelins\" from \"The Book of Wonder,\" (1912) gives a good indication of both the tone and tenor of Dunsany's style at the time:\n\nAfter \"The Book of Wonder,\" Dunsany began to write plays – many of which were even more successful, at the time, than his early story collections – while also continuing to write short stories. He continued to write plays for the theatre into the 1930s, including the famous \"If\", and a number for radio production.\n\nAlthough many of Dunsany's stage plays were successfully produced within his lifetime, he also wrote a number of \"chamber plays\" (or closet dramas), which were intended only to be read privately (as if they were stories) or performed on the radio, rather than staged . Some of Dunsany's chamber or radio plays contain supernatural events – such as a character spontaneously appearing out of thin air, or vanishing in full view of the audience, without any explanation of how the effect is to be staged, a matter of no importance, since Dunsany did not intend these works actually to be performed live and visible.\n\nFollowing a successful lecture touring in the US in 1919–1920 and with his reputation now principally related to his plays, Dunsany temporarily reduced his output of short stories, concentrating on plays, novels and poetry for a time.\n\nHis poetry, now little seen, was for a time so popular that it is recited by the lead character of F. Scott Fitzgerald's \"This Side of Paradise\" and one of his poems, the sonnet \"A Dirge of Victory\" - the only poem included in the Armistice Day edition of the Times of London.\n\nLaunching another phase of his work, Dunsany's first novel, \"\", was published in 1922. It is set in \"a Romantic Spain that never was,\" and follows the adventures of a young nobleman, Don Rodriguez, and his servant in their search for a castle for Rodriguez. It has been argued that Dunsany's inexperience with the novel form shows in the episodic nature of \"Don Rodriguez.\" In 1924, Dunsany published his second novel, \"The King of Elfland's Daughter,\" a return to his early style of writing, which is considered by many to be Dunsany's finest novel and a classic in the realm of the fantasy writing. In his next novel, \"The Charwoman's Shadow,\" Dunsany returned to the Spanish milieu and to the light style of \"Don Rodriguez,\" to which it is related.\n\nThough his style and medium shifted frequently, Dunsany's thematic concerns remained essentially the same. Many of Dunsany's later novels had an explicitly Irish theme, from the semi-autobiographical \"The Curse of the Wise Woman\" to \"His Fellow Men.\"\n\nOne of Dunsany's best-known characters was Joseph Jorkens, an obese middle-aged raconteur who frequented the fictional Billiards Club in London, and who would tell fantastic stories if someone would buy him a large whiskey and soda. From his tales, it was obvious that Mr Jorkens had travelled to all seven continents, was extremely resourceful, and well-versed in world cultures, but always came up short on becoming rich and famous. The \"Jorkens\" books, which sold well, were among the first of a type which was to become popular in fantasy and science fiction writing: extremely improbable \"club tales\" told at a gentleman's club or bar.\n\nDunsany's writing habits were considered peculiar by some. Lady Beatrice said that \"He always sat on a crumpled old hat while composing his tales.\" (The hat was eventually stolen by a visitor to Dunsany Castle.) Dunsany almost never rewrote anything; everything he ever published was a first draft. Much of his work was penned with quill pens, which he made himself; Lady Beatrice was usually the first to see the writings, and would help type them. It has been said that Lord Dunsany would sometimes conceive stories while hunting, and would return to the Castle and draw in his family and servants to re-enact his visions before he set them on paper.\n\nDunsany's work was translated from an early stage, to languages including Spanish, French, Japanese, German, Italian, Dutch, Russian, Czech and Turkish. His uncle, Horace Plunkett, mentioned that he had been translated into 14 languages already by the 1920s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLord Dunsany was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature, a member, and at once point the President, of the Authors' Society, and likewise President of the Shakespeare Reading Society from 1938 until his death in 1957, succeeded by Sir John Gielgud.\n\nDunsany was also a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, and an honorary member of the Institut Historique et Heraldique de France.\n\nHe was initially an Associate Member of the Irish Academy of Letters, founded by Yeats and others, and later a full member. At one of their banquets, he asked Seán Ó Faoláin, who was presiding, \"Do we not toast the King?\" O'Faolain replied that there was only one toast: to the Nation; but after it was given and he'd called for coffee, Dunsany stood quietly among the bustle, raised his glass discreetly, and whispered \"God bless him.\"\n\n\"The Curse of the Wise Woman\" received the Harmsworth Literary Award in Ireland.\n\nDunsany received an honorary doctorate, D.Litt., from Trinity College, Dublin, in 1940.\n\nDunsany was nominated for the Nobel Prize by Irish PEN, but lost to Bertrand Russell.\n\n\n\n\nS. T. Joshi and Darrell Schweitzer have been working on the Dunsany œuvre for over twenty years, gathering stories and essays and reference material, and producing both an initial bibliography (together) and scholarly studies of Dunsany's work (separate works). They issued an updated version of the bibliography in 2013. Joshi edited The Collected Jorkens, The Ginger Cat and other lost plays and co-edited The Ghost in the Corner and other stories. Both are well-known figures in the fields of speculative fiction.\n\nIn the late 1990s a curator, J.W. (Joe) Doyle, was appointed by the Dunsany estate, working at Dunsany Castle, among other things locating and organising the author's manuscripts, typescripts and other materials. Doyle discovered both works known to exist but \"lost\", such as the plays \"The Ginger Cat\" and \"The Murderers,\" some Jorkens stories, and the novel \"The Pleasures of a Futuroscope\" (subsequently published by Hippocampus Press) and unknown, unpublished works, notably including \"The Last Book of Jorkens\", to the first edition of which he wrote an introduction, and an unnamed 1956 short story collection, published as part of The Ghost in the Corner and other stories in 2017.\n\nIn the 2000s a PhD researcher, Tania Scott, from the University of Glasgow, worked on Dunsany for some time, and has spoken at literary and other conventions. A Swedish fan, Martin Andersson, has also been active in research and publication in the mid-2010s.\n\nDunsany's literary rights passed from the author to a Trust, which still owns them. These rights were first managed by Beatrice, Lady Dunsany, and are currently administered by Curtis Brown of London and partner companies worldwide (some past US deals, for example, have been listed by Locus Magazine as by SCG).\n\nAll of Dunsany's work is in copyright in parts of the world , including the UK and European Union, with the early work (published before 1 January 1923) being in the public domain in the United States, and all of his work out of copyright in parts of the world with copyright durations of life + 60 or less. \nDunsany's primary home, over 820 years old, can be visited at certain times of year, and tours usually include the Library, but not the tower room he often liked to work in. His other home, Dunstall Priory, was sold to a fan, Grey Gowrie, later head of the Arts Council of the UK, and thence passed on to other owners; the family still own farm- and down-land in the area, and a Tudor cottage in Shoreham village. The grave of Lord Dunsany and his wife can be seen in the Church of England graveyard in the village (most of the previous barons are buried in the grounds of Dunsany Castle).\n\nDunsany's original manuscripts are collected in the family archive, including some specially bound volumes of some of his works. As noted, there has been a curator since the late 1990s and scholarly access is possible by application.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3754541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3754541", "title": "Elena Delle Donne", "text": "Elena Delle Donne\n\nElena Delle Donne (; born September 5, 1989) is an American professional basketball player for the Washington Mystics of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA).\n\nThe daughter of a real estate developer and his wife, Delle Donne inherited her 6'5\" (1.96 m) height from both her parents—her father, who played college golf, is 6'6\" (1.98 m), and her mother is 6'2\" (1.88 m). Her childhood was marked by a struggle to come to terms with her unusual height. According to a 2016 ESPN story, her first memory was going on a shopping trip when she was 3 years old and hearing other shoppers tell her mother that an 8-year-old should not be using a pacifier. In third grade, her class was assigned to measure themselves using lengths of paper; she \"was humiliated\" when her paper extended well beyond those of her classmates. Within two years of that incident, a doctor wanted to start her on injections to stunt her growth; her mother refused. By the time she was in eighth grade, she was already 6'0\" (1.83 m). Additionally, according to the same ESPN piece, Delle Donne had to come to terms with having \"a body that could do a great many things that the body of her older sister, Lizzie, couldn't.\" Lizzie was born deaf and blind, is unable to speak, and also has cerebral palsy and autism. In another 2016 ESPN story, Delle Donne credits her mother with helping her accept her height:\n\nShe's 6–2 and my dad is 6–6, so she understood. She was like, \"I'm telling you, one day you are going to realize how beautiful your height is.\" She would always tell me how unique I am and say, \"Why try to be like the rest of the pack? Be your own person.\"\n\nDelle Donne gained national recognition as a high school basketball star at Ursuline Academy in Wilmington, Delaware. She led Ursuline to three straight Delaware State Championship titles and was ranked as the number-one overall high school recruit by Scout.com as well as a McDonald's All-American. She was the first and only student at Ursuline so far to score 2,000+ points during her high school career and also set the girls' high school national record for consecutive free throws made (80) in 2005–2006.\n\nDelle Donne was also named a WBCA All-American. She participated in the 2007 WBCA High School All-America Game, where she scored 17 points, and earned MVP honors for the Red team.\n\nShe also participated in volleyball. Delle Donne won the volleyball DIAA state championship with Ursuline in 2007. She posted a season high 20 kills against Padua during a game involving the number one and two teams in the state.\n\nFollowing an outstanding prep career during which she became the most highly touted women's basketball recruit since Candace Parker, Delle Donne received a basketball scholarship from the University of Connecticut. However, in early June 2008, Delle Donne abruptly dropped out of Connecticut's summer school program after just two days in Storrs. Delle Donne was very close to her family, especially her older sister, Lizzie, who has cerebral palsy and is blind and deaf. She was not ready to be separated from her family. Gene, Elena's brother and the middle child of the Delle Donne family, would say in a 2012 ESPN story on his younger sister:\n\nHer relationship with Lizzie is huge. It's so close. It's a big reason why she is such a homebody who came home from UConn, because she craves to be around Lizzie and to experience Lizzie grabbing her and sniffing her and just spend quality time with her.\n\nA week after leaving Connecticut, Delle Donne said by telephone from her home in Wilmington that she has \"a lot of personal issues to fix. Only my family understands what's going on. Right now I am going to take a long personal break.\" She took a similar break prior to the 2007–08 season in high school.\n\nOn August 16, 2008, Delle Donne announced she would not accept the scholarship due to burnout, and instead decided to enroll at the University of Delaware and join their volleyball team as a walk-on. She played middle hitter at UD for the 2008–09 season. The 2008 Delaware Blue Hens finished their season with a record of 19–16. They were 9–5 in their conference (Colonial Athletic Association) and won the conference tournament. They earned a spot in the NCAA Tournament, but lost to Oregon in the first round. Delle Donne did not continue on the volleyball team in 2009, but joined the basketball team.\n\nOn June 2, 2009, Delle Donne announced that she would play basketball for the Blue Hens in the 2009–10 season as a redshirt freshman. In 2012, ESPN writer Graham Hays said about her return to the sport \"it cannot be complete coincidence that it came the year Gene returned to Delaware and went to work for his dad's company.\" In a 2016 interview with ESPN, Delle Donne also recalled a trip she took during the summer of 2009 to the school that Lizzie was attending. While there, she met another woman at the school, a basketball fan who used a wheelchair due to cerebral palsy, who told her, \"Elena, do everything you can with your abilities, just like we do.\"\n\nDelle Donne had a very productive freshman season. She averaged 26.7 points per game, the third-highest of all Division I women's basketball players. She scored 54 points in a loss against James Madison on February 18, 2010, which was the highest single-game point total by any Division I female basketball player that season. She was named the CAA Rookie of the Week six times, and the player of the week once during 2009–10.\n\nShe was voted the CAA's \"Player of the Year\" and \"Rookie of the Year\" in women's basketball by CAA coaches, sports information directors and media. This was the first time a player had won both awards in one year since Old Dominion's Lucienne Berthieu did so in 1999. No men's player has ever won both awards in the same season.\nIn her sophomore season, the team started off well, but then Delle Donne began to develop flu-like symptoms. In a game against Penn State, she asked to be taken out of the game, something she had never done before. After many tests, the doctors finally diagnosed her with Lyme disease. She struggled the rest of the season, but she helped her team reach the finals of the conference tournament and an invitation to the Women's NIT. \n\nAs a junior, Delle Donne led the nation in scoring, finishing the season with an average of 28.1 points per game. Her prowess attracted many fans to the Blue Hens games, with attendance rising 250 percent from the previous year. On February 16, 2012, Delle Donne scored 42 points in a win over Hofstra, eclipsing the 2,000 point mark for her career. Delaware were the CAA champions, qualifying for the 2012 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament. Delle Donne scored 39 out of the Blue Hens' first 56 points in their first round victory over UALR. Delaware would lead by halftime against Kansas in the next game, but despite Delle Donne's 34 points, the Jayhawks still won. \n\nDuring the 2012–13 season, Delle Donne again fought Lyme disease, missing four games due to the illness. Delle Donne returned on December 12 against Maryland and led the team with 19 points and 6 rebounds in a 69–53 loss. This game was the largest crowd (5,089) to ever to see a women's basketball game at the Bob Carpenter Center, the Blue Hens' homecourt.\n\nDelle Donne led her team in scoring in 22 regular season games during her senior season, as well as in rebounds in 12 games. She scored more than 30 points on five occasions, leading her team to a 27–3 regular season record entering CAA conference tournament play.\n\nAfter winning the CAA conference tournament, the Blue Hens were the #6 seed in their region of the 2013 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament. Delle Donne led them to victories over #11 West Virginia and #3 North Carolina. The Blue Hens then lost to #2 Kentucky, despite Delle Donne's 33 points.\n\nFollowing her collegiate career, Delle Donne was selected second overall in the 2013 WNBA Draft by the Chicago Sky, a team that went 14–20 in the 2012 season. She was one of twelve players to be invited to the event. Delle Donne scored 22 points in her debut against fellow rookie Brittney Griner and the Phoenix Mercury. The Sky went on to win the game, 102–80. She led all players in votes for the 2013 WNBA All-Star Game, the first time a rookie has done so in league history. She missed the game, however, due to a concussion. After the All-Star break, Delle Donne returned to action, and continued to play at a high level. The Sky qualified for the playoffs for the first time in franchise history, earning the top seed in the Eastern Conference. Delle Donne was rewarded with the 2013 Rookie of the Year award.\n\nThe 2014 regular season had Delle Donne playing only 16 games due to a flare-up of Lyme disease, averaging less than 19 minutes in the final seven games. Eventually she rose up during the playoffs, helping the Sky defeat the Atlanta Dream in the first round, scoring 34 points and a game winning shot with 8.2 seconds left as the Sky erased a 17-point deficit with 8:12 remaining in the deciding game. However, Delle Donne was elbowed while going for a rebound in the Atlanta series, suffering a back injury that reduced her play time in the following round against the Indiana Fever. The Sky still got to the WNBA finals, where they lost to the Phoenix Mercury. Delle Donne played only 10 minutes in the first game, before taking medication to play 68 minutes and score 45 points over the final two games.\n\nOn September 16, 2015, Delle Donne was named the WNBA MVP for the 2015 season. She scored a league-high 23.4 points per game, shot a career-high 95% from the free throw line and was ranked third in rebounding. She received 38 of 39 first place votes. During the regular season, Delle Donne scored a career-high 45 points in an overtime win against the Atlanta Dream, while making a WNBA record, 19 consecutive free throws.\n\nDelle Donne has played in two NBA All-Star Celebrity Games, in 2014 and 2016.\n\nIn the 2016 season, Delle Donne averaged 21.5 ppg helping the Sky to another playoff berth as they finished 18–16. With the WNBA's new playoff format in effect, the Sky were the #4 seed in the league with a bye to the second round. Unfortunately, Delle Donne had suffered an injury on her right thumb in a loss to the Washington Mystics. Delle Donne would have season-ending surgery that would also keep her out for the playoffs. Delle Donne played 28 games in the season before the injury. Without Delle Donne, the Sky still had a decent playoff run, advancing to the semifinals (the last round before the WNBA finals) where they lost 3–1 to the Los Angeles Sparks who would win the championship.\n\nWith Delle Donne approaching restricted free agent status and her rookie contract expiring, she was traded to the Washington Mystics in exchange for Stefanie Dolson, Kahleah Copper and the second overall pick in the 2017 WNBA draft just a couple days before the start of free agency.\n\nOn May 14, 2017, Delle Donne made her debut for the Mystics, scoring a team-high 26 points in a 89–74 win over the San Antonio Stars. On May 19, 2017, Delle Donne scored a season-high 27 points in a 99–89 loss to the Los Angeles Sparks. During Emma Meesseman's absence, Delle Donne would play outside her natural position as the starting power forward for the Mystics. On July 14, 2017, Delle Donne suffered a sprained right ankle in a game against Indiana Fever, which caused her to miss the 2017 WNBA All-Star Game. On July 25, 2017, Delle Donne scored a new season-high of 29 points along with 10 rebounds in a 85–76 win against the San Antonio Stars after returning from her ankle injury. On August 1, 2017, Delle Donne suffered a left thumb injury while playing against the Atlanta Dream and was ruled out for two weeks. On August 25, 2017, she returned and scored 15 points in a 74–66 loss to the New York Liberty. On September 1, 2017, Delle Donne scored a new season-high of 37 points along with a career-high 6 three-pointers in a 110–106 overtime win against the Seattle Storm as the Mystics secured a playoff berth as the #6 seed in the league with an 18–16 record. In the first round elimination game, the Mystics defeated the Dallas Wings 86–76, Delle Donne scored 25 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. They advanced to the second round elimination game, where they defeated the #3-seeded New York Liberty, 82–68, advancing to the semi-finals, making it the first time in franchise history where the Mystics have advanced past the second round. Delle Donne scored 18 points and grabbed 10 rebounds in the win. In the semi-finals, the Mystics would be defeated by the Minnesota Lynx in a 3-game sweep.\n\nIn the 2018 season, with Meesseman sitting out the season to play for Team Belgium in the FIBA World Tournament, Delle Donne would play at the power forward position in the starting lineup. On June 13, 2018, Delle Donne scored a season-high 36 points in a 95–91 victory over the Connecticut Sun. After scoring 23 points in a 77–80 loss to the Atlanta Dream, Delle Donne became the fastest player in WNBA history to score 3,000 points, completing the feat in 148 games. The previous record was held by Diana Taurasi and Seimone Augustus, who both completed the feat in 151 games. Delle Donne would be voted into the 2018 WNBA All-Star Game, receiving her fifth all-star appearance. By the end of regular season, Delle Donne averaged 20.7 ppg. The Mystics were the number three seed with a 22–12 record, receiving a bye to the second round elimination game. The Mystics defeated the Los Angeles Sparks, 96–64, advancing to the semi-finals for the second year in a row. Delle Donne scored 19 points in the victory. In the semi-finals, the Mystics would face the number 2 seed Atlanta Dream, Delle Donne scored 32 points in Game one, lifing the Mystics to a 87–84 victory. The Mystics would end up winning the series in a hard-fought five-game series, advancing to the WNBA Finals for the first time in franchise history.\n\nUnlike the vast majority of WNBA players, Delle Donne has not normally played overseas, choosing instead to spend the traditional basketball season in the U.S. to help care for her sister, Lizzie. Her first experience in an overseas league did not come until 2017, when she signed a short-term deal to play with the Chinese team Shanxi in that league's playoffs. Her stay in China prematurely ended when a flare-up of Lyme disease forced her to return to the U.S.\n\nDuring her college days, Delle Donne was selected to the 2011 USA Basketball Team for the World University Games played August 12–23 in Shenzhen, China. Delle Donne led the team to a gold medal with a perfect 6–0 record and averaged 15.7 points, 8.5 rebounds and 3.0 assists. In the Championship game won by the USA 101–66 over Taiwan, Delle Donne scored 18 points on 8–14 shooting and led the team with 11 rebounds and 8 assists.\n\nWhile Delle Donne was considered for the U.S. team that would play the 2014 World Championship, she wound up cut due to the back injury suffered in the WNBA Playoffs.\n\nOn April 27, 2016, Delle Donne was named to the 2016 United States team that competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. During the U.S. team's eighth gold medal campaign, she was a role player, starting off the bench in seven games and sitting out the game against China due to an eye injury received during practice. The U.S. team would win the gold medal as they defeated Spain 101–72. Delle Donne is the sixth gold medalist hailing from Delaware.\n\nDelle Donne was born in Wilmington, Delaware. Her parents are Ernie, a real estate developer, and Joanie. Her older brother, Gene, played college football as a tight end, first at Duke, then at Middle Tennessee. After he graduated from Middle Tennessee in 2009, he returned to Delaware to work in their father's company. Her older sister, Elizabeth (Lizzie), is blind, deaf, autistic and has cerebral palsy. While most WNBA players use the offseason to play for other leagues overseas, Delle Donne normally uses it to care for Lizzie.\n\nIn 2008, during her senior year in high school, Delle Donne was diagnosed with Lyme disease after being bitten by an infected tick on the property of her family's home in Delaware. Delle Donne has stated that she takes \"around 50 supplements a day\" and maintains healthy eating to combat this disease.\n\nIn February 2014, Delle Donne was named a Special Olympics Global Ambassador. She also played in the 3rd annual NBA Cares Special Olympics Unified Basketball Game during All-Star weekend, alongside Special Olympics athletes, NBA legends and current WNBA and NBA players. Delle Donne plans to create The Elena Delle Donne Charitable Foundation, which will combine initiatives for both the Special Olympics and Lyme disease awareness.\n\nDelle Donne announced her engagement to her longtime girlfriend Amanda Clifton in an August 2016 issue of \"Vogue\".\nOn November 3, 2017, Delle Donne and Clifton married.\n\nSince being drafted in the WNBA, Delle Donne has signed multiple endorsement deals with different companies. In 2013, Delle Donne signed endorsement deals with Nike and DuPont, a science company which is based in her hometown Wilmington, Delaware. In 2015, Delle Donne signed a representation agreement with Octagon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32007938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32007938", "title": "Gennady Alferenko", "text": "Gennady Alferenko\n\nGennady Alferenko (Russian: Генна́дий Петро́вич Алфере́нко; born December 15, 1948) is a Soviet and Russian social innovator; in 1970 he established \"Terpsichore\", the first local community organization registered as a legal entity in the USSR; in 1985 he established the Foundation for Social Inventions of the USSR, and in 1987, the foundation for Social Innovations USA. Alferenko is an Honorary Citizen of New Orleans, San Francisco, San Diego, Atlanta, Juneau, and Seattle.\n\nGennady Alferenko studied Geology and Geophysics at the Novosibirsk State University from 1966 through 1973. During this period, in 1970, Alferenko founded Terpsichore, a ballet club, which was the first local community organization registered as a legal entity in the USSR. Terpsichore organized events with performances of Soviet and world culture stars, such as Galina Ulanova, Maya Plisetskaya, Ekaterina Maximova, Alicia Alonso, Vladimir Vasiliev, Maris Liepa, and Mikhail Baryshnikov. Also, he established a network of 450 local foundations to provide financial, organizational, and legal support to youth initiatives across the Soviet Union. From 1973 through 1985 Gennady Alferenko headed the NSU's oil and gas deposits research team in Eastern Siberia and on Sakhalin island.\n\nIn 1985, following Alferenko's publication on an idea of a national campaign to facilitate innovators and change-makers, Mikhail Gorbachev pledged his support and invited Gennady to Moscow to set up a national fund promoting social innovations. Alferenko established the Foundation for Social Inventions at the Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper, as a readers' voluntary association, to implement initiatives facilitating creation and establishment of an open civil society. The Foundation for Social Inventions established and provided organizational and financial support to over 300 non-governmental organizations using a unique mandate to launch new organizations under its auspices. Some of the initiatives that Gennady Alferenko launched with the FSI, were Siberia-Alaska in 1988, and Space Flight Europe-America 500 in 1992.\n\nSiberia-Alaska was a project to establish a visa-free travel regime for native families in order to reunite Soviet and American Yupik Eskimos in Chukotka, and open direct flights between Siberia, Russian Far East, Alaska and California. Before, those who wished to travel legally across the Bering Strait had to go round the world.\n\nEurope-America 500 was the first ever private spaceflight which was conceived with the aim to promote the use of technology once reserved for military forces. It was followed by a Russian-American entrepreneur exchange program promoting development of small and medium-sized businesses in Russia. During the course of the program, over 10.000 young unemployed people had been sent for 4-6-week internships in the United States for developing entrepreneurial skills and gaining experience.\n\nIn 1987, Gennady Alferenko established the US Foundation for Social Innovations, which, jointly with the FSI of the USSR, launched the first student exchange programs between the USSR and the USA for 100.000 students, and organized a meeting of the Vietnam War US veterans and Afghanistan War Soviet veterans to develop mutual support programs and establish joint business ventures, such as manufacturing of prosthetics and wheelchairs.\n\nIn 1989, Alferenko together with the Esalen Institute organized Boris Yeltsin's first trip to the United States, arranging meetings for Yeltsin with President George H. W. Bush, Vice President Dan Quayle, National Security Advisor Brent Scowcroft, former President Ronald Reagan, and many other leaders in business and government. The trip covered eleven cities and fulfilled Yeltsin's dreams of seeing the Statue of Liberty and an example of a free enterprise economy.\n\nIn mid-1990s, Alferenko had developed recommendations for Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov to establish a state-owned company Rosneft. At the time, he had also been a founder and president of the club of friends of the Bolshoi Theatre.\n\nIn 2000, Alferenko organized Ring-2000, a civic initiative to create a National idea bank for the new President of Russia, Vladimir Putin. The main events were held in Russia concert hall in Moscow linked with 33 Internet centers in universities across Russia, and were broadcast on national TV.\n\nSince 2000, Gennady Alferenko has been a member of board of directors of Standard Bank, a board member of Valery Gergiev Charitable Foundation, and strategic advisor to national and international companies such as Gazprombank, Ernst & Young, DLA Piper, and PwC. In 2016, he became a member of the board of directors at Hancock Jaffe Laboratories, a U.S. based company developing bioprosthetic medical devices providing treatments for cardiothoracic procedures.\n\nSpecific references:\n\nGeneral references:\n\n"}
{"id": "30401205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30401205", "title": "Gerald Ganglbauer", "text": "Gerald Ganglbauer\n\nGerald Ganglbauer (born 24 February 1958 in Graz, Austria) is an Austrian–Australian writer and publisher diagnosed with Parkinson's disease at the age of 48 years. Since then he has been an ambassador for Parkinson's support groups.\n\nBorn Horst Gerald Ganglbauer, he studied communication at University of Graz (1986), and more recently web development at the SIT (2006). In 1984 he started the independent press \"Gangan\" with his then wife Petra Ganglbauer. After their divorce he lived for several years in Vienna. Since 1989 he has lived in Sydney and Perth, Australia under dual citizenship, and is listed as one of Styria's \"Top Expatriates\".\n\n1982/83 he was a founder and editor-in-chief of the magazine \"perspektive\", 1987/88 editor in chief of the literary journal \"gangan viertel, ZeitSCHRIFT über Literatur\", and in 1990/91 he launched Gangaroo in Sydney. In 1992 he co-edited with Andreas Puff-Trojan \"Textwechsel\", and in 1996 launched the international online magazine Gangway. In 2001 he introduced \"Gangart Awards\", an intercultural competition for the arts on the net, which were awarded till 2005 by an international jury, and only ended due to his illness. \"Gangan\" published books in print for ten years, and then online.\n\nIn the last decade he was involved in resident action groups and was elected chairman of the \"Ultimo Precinct Committee\" in Sydney. He is founder of the forum for Austrians Abroad (2004) and since 2007 has been on the board of directors of the \"World Federation of Austrians Abroad (AÖWB)\". He was also convenor of \"Free Beach Action NSW\", a lobby group for naturism in New South Wales.\n\nIn 2006 he was diagnosed with early onset Parkinson's disease, which forced him into retirement in 2007, before the age of 50. With this dramatic change in his life, he became active in Parkinson's support groups in Austria (\"Parkinson Selbsthilfe Steiermark\") and New South Wales (\"Parkinson's NSW Inc.\") and, despite his illness was re-elected AÖWB director in 2010. Together with Viennese neurologist Dr Wilibald Gerschlager he started the Austrian Parkinson's forum \"Parkinsonberatung\" and ran it from June 2007 to January 2011, and, after that, a Facebook page and a Twitter microblog for the umbrella organisation \"Parkinson Selbsthilfe Österreich\". On Skype he introduced \"Parkinsonline\" IM groups in August 2010. In Sydney he convened an inner city support group, moved back to Austria in 2013, and became first elected president of Austrian Parkinson's association PON, in 2014. He is also a contributing author to Dr Gerschlager's book on Parkinson's disease.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19908296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19908296", "title": "Hadley Cantril", "text": "Hadley Cantril\n\nAlbert Hadley Cantril, Jr. (16 June 1906 – 28 May 1969) was a Princeton University psychologist who expanded the scope of the field.\n\nCantril made \"major contributions in psychology of propaganda; public opinion research; applications of psychology and psychological research to national policy, international understanding, and communication; developmental psychology; psychology of social movements; measurement and scaling; humanistic psychology; the psychology of perception; and, basic to all of them, the analysis of human behavior from the transactional point of view.\" His influence is felt in education, law, philosophy, politics and psychiatry.\n\n\"Hadley Cantril, Princeton psychologist, is representative of most quantitative scholars of social influence who, while holding their political commitments close to the vest, nevertheless saw themselves clearly in the ranks of reformers loosely attached to the progressive movement…. Focus on social process and a psychological view of people put the academic scientists of society in a frame of mind to assume the polis languished chiefly because of inaction on the part of enlightened administrators.\"\n\nCantril was born in Hyrum, Utah in 1906 and first studied at Dartmouth College, graduating Bachelor of Science in 1928. He did graduate study in Munich and Berlin, then studied at Harvard graduating with Doctor of Philosophy in psychology in 1931. He was hired as an instructor by Dartmouth and joined the Princeton University faculty in 1936. The next year he became president of the Institute for Propaganda Analysis and one of the founding editors of \"Public Opinion Quarterly\". Later be became chairman of the Princeton University Department of Psychology.\n\nCantril was a member of the Princeton Radio Research Project. The Project looked at the reaction to Orson Welles' The War of the Worlds and published a study accenting the public's disturbance.\n\nIn 1940 he served as a consultant to the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. \n\nCantril's later psychological work included collaboration with Adelbert Ames, Jr. developing a transactional method for studying human perception, as well as other research in humanistic psychology.\n\nThough trained as a psychologist, Cantril's most important work concerned the then-new topic of public opinion research. Influenced initially by the success of George Gallup and Elmo Roper during the 1936 presidential election, Cantril sought to apply their systematic polling technique to academic social psychology. While Cantril was department chairman he became a presidential advisor:Cantril's small-scale program at Princeton became more extensive in September 1940 when Nelson Rockefeller, FDR's Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, asked the Princeton psychologist to \"set up mechanisms which would gauge public opinion in Latin America.\" In cooperation with Gallup, and with funds from the Office of Emergency Management, Cantril established an ostensibly independent research organization, American Social Surveys. He recruited his friend Leonard Doob, and another researcher Lloyd Free, to analyse Nazi propaganda coming into Latin America. Through Rockefeller's office, the results of Cantril's program were brought to the attention of FDR. The president asked Cantril to monitor public sentiment on avoiding war verses aiding Britain. Cantril duely kept tabs on views about aiding England and on the public's willingness to change U.S. neutrality laws in favor of Britain.In 1942 Cantril conducted a small-sample survey of Vichy officials in Morocco, prior to Operation Torch, that revealed the intensity of the anti-British sentiment of the French forces there. This information influenced the disposition of forces during the operation, with American troops landing near Casablanca and mixed forces at Oran and Algiers. \n\nIn 1955 he and Lloyd Free founded the Institute for International Social Research (IISR). The IISR was often asked by United States government agencies to conduct small-sample public opinion polls in foreign countries. Notably, Cantril and Free conducted a poll of Cuba during 1960 demonstrating great support for Fidel Castro, which was overlooked during the presidential transition between Eisenhower and Kennedy and read only after the Bay of Pigs Invasion fiasco. \n\nCantril's most-cited work is \"The Pattern of Human Concerns,\" notable for the development of the self-anchoring scale (also known as \"Cantril's Ladder\"). Cantril and Free also first discovered the paradox that American voters tend to oppose \"big government\" in general while supporting many specific liberal social programs.\n\nDuring the late 1950s, Cantril served on the International Objectives and Strategies panel of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund's Special Studies Project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1070742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1070742", "title": "Hassan Habibi", "text": "Hassan Habibi\n\nHassan Ebrahim Habibi (29 January 1937 – 31 January 2013) was an Iranian politician, lawyer, scholar and the first vice president from 1989 until 2001 under Presidents Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami. He was also a member of the High Council of Cultural Revolution and head of Academy of Persian Language and Literature from 2004 until his death in 2013.\n\nHabibi was born on 29 January 1937. He studied sociology in France. He held a PhD in law and sociology. When he was a university student he visited Khomeini while the latter was in exile.\n\nHabibi was tasked by Ayatollah Khomenei to draft the prospective constitution of Iran when the latter was in exile in Paris. His version was heavily modified due to criticisms and the final text was approved by the election in November 1979.\n\nFollowing the Iranian revolution, Habibi was named public spokesman for the revolutionary council. He was among the main architects of the first draft of Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, which was later passed for more discussion to an elected Assembly of Experts for Constitution. The assembly made significant changes in the original draft, e.g. by introducing the new position of \"leader of the Islamic Republic\" based on Khomeini's concept of Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists, which gave almost unlimited power to the clergy. The modified version was approved in a popular referendum in 1979. In the 1980 presidential election, Habibi run for office, but received only ten percent of the vote against Banisadr's seventy percent. Habibi was backed by Mohammad Beheshti in the election process. In the same year he won a parliamentary seat, being a representative of the Islamic Republican Party.\n\nHabibi served as the minister of justice under Prime Minister Mousavi. He was first vice president of Iran from 1989 to 2001, eight years under President Rafsanjani and then four years under President Khatami. He was replaced by Mohammad Reza Aref in the post in Khatami's second term. He was also head of the Academy of Persian Language and Literature and a member of the Expediency Council.\n\nHabibi died on 31 January 2013. He was buried at the mausoleum of Imam Khomeini in Tehran on 1 February. The funeral service was attended by leading Iranian political figures, including President Ahmedinejad.\n\nHabibi is the author of several books, including \"God\" (1981), \"Society, Culture, Politics\" (1984), \"Islam and the Crisis of Our Time\" (1984), \"In the Mirror Of Rights: Views Of International Rights, Comparative Rights And Sociology\" (1988), \"Seeking the Roots\" (editing & translation) (1994), \"Casework of An Ages Student\" (1997), \"One Word Out Of Thousands\" (2 vol.) (1998-2001) and \"General International Rights\" (2 vol.) (2003).\n"}
{"id": "31550129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31550129", "title": "Isaac A. Van Amburgh", "text": "Isaac A. Van Amburgh\n\nIsaac A. Van Amburgh (1808–1865) was an American animal trainer who developed the first trained wild animal act in modern times. By introducing jungle acts into the circus, Van Amburgh paved the way for combining menageries with circuses. After that, menageries began using equestrian and clown performances in circus rings. Gradually the distinction between circus and menagerie faded.\n\nFrom the humble beginning of cage-cleaner in the Zoological Institute of New York, Van Amburgh quickly gained notoriety for his acts of daring, for example placing his bare arm and even head inside the jaws of a wild cat. Also known for his domineering attitude toward his animals, he earned the title “The Lion King.”\n\nDespite the disapproval of some for his brutal treatment of animals, Van Amburgh remained very popular and successful, beginning his own menagerie which he took to Europe. He died a wealthy man, and his name continued to be used in the circus world for more than a century after.\n\nIsaac A. Van Amburgh (a name adopted by his American Indian grandfather) was born on May 26, 1808 in Fishkill, New York. Legend dictates that while reading the Bible, young Isaac came upon the tale of Daniel in the lion’s den, and, from then on, was determined to be a lion tamer. He found his start in the Zoological Institute of New York.\n\nAt nineteen, Isaac left his home in Peekskill, New York to look for a job in neighboring North Salem. There he found a job as a cage cleaner in the Zoological Institute of New York.\n\nDespite its lofty-sounding name, the Zoological Institute was not a zoo at all, but rather a tiny traveling menagerie. In a period of time when amusement was regarded with suspicion, it was from its name that this show got its value.\n\nAlthough he started out as a \"cage boy,\" Isaac showed an aptitude for training the wild animals whose cages he cleaned. One of the owners of the Zoological Institute, Titus, was a dealer in wild animals. So he appreciated the novelty of trained wild animals, recognizing that \"novelty plus publicity meant money.\"\n\nJune, Titus, and Angevine distributed posters by the thousands. They put Isaac in costume – a Roman toga, in reference to the gladiators of ancient Rome's Circus Maximus. In the winter, Van Amburgh trained his wild animals in the barns of New York's upper Westchester and the lower Putnam counties. The next year, 1821, the Van Amburgh Menagerie hit New York City.\n\nIn 1833, at age twenty-two, Isaac A. Van Amburgh entered a cage of wild cats at the Zoological Institute. In the cage were a lion, a lioness, leopard, leopardess, black-maned Cape lion, and a panther. From the Richmond Hill Theatre, New York, Van Amburgh astonished the country. In the words of his biographer, \"The effect of his power was instantaneous. The Lion halted and stood transfixed. The Tiger crouched. The Panther with a suppressed growl of rage sprang back, while the Leopard receded gradually from its master. The spectators were overwhelmed with wonder ... Then came the most effective tableaux of all. Van Amburgh with his strong will bade them come to him while he reclined in the back of the cage – the proud King of animal creation.\"\n\nVan Amburgh did more than just enter the cage. Nathaniel Hawthorne described a menagerie he saw on September 4, 1828, near North Adams, Massachusetts: “A man put his arm and head into the lion’s mouth, – all the spectators looking on so attentively that a breath could not be heard. That was impressive, – its effect on a thousand persons, – more than the thing itself.” As Van Amburgh was one of the few performers of the time to perform this way, Hawthorne probably saw Van Amburgh. In fact, Van Amburgh is usually credited with being the first man ever to put his head into the mouth of a lion. In July 7, 1838, the New York Mirror also described how Van Amburgh’s “fearless acts of placing his bare arm moist with blood, in the lion’s mouth and thrusting his head into the distended jaws of the tiger” were watched with keen interest.\n\nVan Amburgh, made an instant hero, discovered he now had the freedom to make his own decisions. By entering lions’ dens in and out of the country, he began earning real money. Featured in the “Flatfoot shows,” he was able to earn up to four hundred dollars per week. By age twenty-three, he had his own travelling menagerie, and by the mid-1840s his was the largest traveling show in England. In 1861, it was one of America’s eleven big traveling shows.\n\nEven after the 1868 fire that killed Van Amburgh’s animals and destroyed other circus artifacts, the potent name of Van Amburgh continued to be used by circuses until 1922.\n\nIn the late 1830s, Van Amburgh took his act to England and Europe for several years. He made his debut in London at Astley’s on August 27, 1838, and his said to have made £300 per week there.\n\nWhile in England, Van Amburgh performed for Queen Victoria and Prince Albert in 1844. The former took special interest in him. In fact, the Queen commissioned artist Edwin Landseer to paint a portrait of Van Amburgh and his cats. Upon its completion, the painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy, an impressive honor for the time.\n\nIn 1839, Queen Victoria traveled six times in as many months solely to watch Van Amburgh perform at Drury Lane. She even remained after one evening’s performance in order to watch his feeding the cats. Even before his 1838 European debut, Van Amburgh was one of America’s most celebrated characters. But after such special royal favor, Van Amburgh “became a figure that even the American upper crust could admit to appreciating.” He was the first major American wild animal trainer to achieve such an international celebrity status.\n\nCircuses were regularly under attack in the press and at the pulpit as “traveling death” and “moral ruin.” But predecessors of Van Amburgh were less inhumane. Despite his great success and popularity, Van Amburgh regularly faced criticism for the cruelty he showed to his animals. Van Amburgh reportedly beat his animals with a crowbar. In costume, whether in loose-fitting jungle clothing or ancient Roman gladiatorial garb, Van Amburgh would bait the animals, attempting to evoke as much ferocity on their part as he could. Thereupon, he would beat them into submission. “His ‘‘piece de resistance’’ was forcing the lions to ... lick his boots as the ultimate sign of his conquest and the animals’ abject subservience.” Van Amburgh’s own publicity agent, Hyat Frost, reported that Van Amburgh starved his lions for three days before one of these royal command performances. They were so hungry when it came time to perform that he was forced to “lash them furiously with his whip ‘into the most abject and crouching submission.’”\n\nIn response to these attacks, Van Amburgh cited Bible verses to justify his touring menagerie. He quoted Genesis 1:26, arguing that God had given men dominion over animals. Thus “it was a religious act for trained animals to kneel at his feet.” He is also well-remembered for having acted out a scene from the Bible by forcing a lion and a lamb to lie down together and even inviting a child from the audience into the den.\n\nIn August 1838, the editor of the \"Age\" reported that “there have already been several cases in which lions have snapped off the heads of persons persisting in this sort of foolish experiment.” Van Amburgh, however, was one of the few early lion tamers who died in bed. On November 29, 1865, at age fifty-four, Isaac A. Van Amburgh suffered a fatal heart attack in Philadelphia. He died a very wealthy man.\n\nEven after Van Amburgh's death, Hyatt Frost, his manager since 1865, continued using the Van Amburgh name. From him it was leased by the Ringling Brothers in 1889.\n\nVan Amburgh himself lived to hear his deeds put to a popular song, “The Menagerie.” Dr. W. J. Wetmore, M.D., published “Van Amburgh’s Menagerie” in 1865, which began like this:\n\n\"Van Amburgh is the man, who goes to all the shows\"\n\n\"He goes into the lion's cage, and tells you all he knows;\"\n\n\"He sticks his head in the lion's mouth,and keeps it there a-while,\"\n\n\"And when he pulls it out again, he greets you with a smile.\"\n\nchorus:\n\n\"The elephant now moves round, the music begins to play.\"\n\n\"Them boys around the monkey’s cage had better keep away”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10065131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10065131", "title": "James Oatley", "text": "James Oatley\n\nJames Oatley Snr (c. 1769–1839) was a British-born colonial Australian watch and clock maker and one-time convict. Oatley, allegedly from Stafford and aged 44, was sentenced to penal transportation for life at Hampshire Assizes on 7 March 1814. James had a number of convictions, dating back to 1806, when he had stolen one ton of cheese. He was sent to Australia for stealing shirts and bedding: \"Hampshire Chronicle\" Monday 14 March 1814 p3 [6, 7, 8, 16]\n\nOatley arrived in Sydney, New South Wales on 27 January 1815 on board the \"Marquis of Wellington\" [7, 10]. On 25 October 1821, he was given a conditional pardon. In this record, James is mentioned as a \"native of Warwickshire\", and a physical description is also provided; he is described as being pale, with dark brown hair, grey eyes, 5'5\", and \"stout\" (with the remainder of the instrument of pardon being difficult to read) [7, 8, 10].\n\nOatley was awarded several land grants; in 1831 and on 30 October 1832, 24 December 1833, 23 January 1834, and 27 July 1835. Areas covered by these land grants include Snugborough (in the vicinity of the modern Moorefields Road, Kingsgrove), which he farmed, and Needwood Forest (now Hurstville Grove). In total, the land approximately covered is similar to that now bounded by Canterbury Road, Belmore, to the north, King George Road to the west, Kingsgrove Road to the east, and the Georges River to the south [15].\n\nJames Oatley died on 9 October 1839. His death notice in the \"Sydney Monitor\" gives his age as 72 years; the Parish record of his burial gives James' age as 70 years. James was buried on his property, \"Snugborough\" [3, 4, 5, 16].\n\nOatley and his family's legacy has been reflected via geography. In 1903, the southern Sydney suburb of Oatley was named after the family. Prior to that, the area west of the railway line was known as New Oatley's, which was a sub-district of Hurstville, and Oatley Platform; east of the railway line was known as Oatley's, which was a sub-district of Kogarah. In 1905, Frederick Street, Oatley, named after Frederick Stokes Oatley, was constructed as the main street of the new suburb [12].\n\nOatley Street, Woollahra, lying between Ocean Street and Edgecliffe Street, existed in the 1850s and early 1860s. Frederick Stokes Oatley resided between Ocean Street and Oatley Street, Woollahra [12].\n\nOatley Lane, Oatley Street, and Oatley Road, all of which were named after James Oatley Jnr, existed in East Sydney. Oatley Road extended into Paddington. A remnant of Oatley Road still exists in Paddington, running beside the Victoria Barracks [12, 13].\n\nThe original Oatley land between Moorefields Road and the railway line through Kingsgrove Station remained largely as open paddocks until it was subdivided for housing and industry in the early 1970s. A street off Kingsgrove Road was named after James Oatley. Just north of Moorefields Road are Robert Street and Eleanor Avenue [13].\n\nThe personal life of James Oatley was well documented in the 1825 Muster of New South Wales [2] and in his will [1] [see Talk]. Oatley married twice. In England, he married Sarah Bennett [see Talk]. Little is known about this marriage. James than had a de facto relationship with Mary Stokes, his housekeeper [2]. Mary was the mother of his three sons, James Stokes Jnr [1], Frederick Stokes [1] and George (1820–1821) shown as James' children in the 1825 Muster [2, 3, 4, 5] and each described in James' will as \"my adopted son\" [1]. Mary arrived in Sydney on 8 June 1815 on board the \"Northampton\", with her son, then called James [but later renamed Robert], born during the voyage [14]. The 1825 muster clearly indicates that Robert was Mary's child, but not James' child [2]. Robert was described as \"an adopted child\" in James' will [1]. \nAfter Mary's death, Oatley married Mary Ann Bogg in 1833 [1, 3, 4].\n\n\n\n\n1. Will of James Oatley\n\n2. 1825 Muster of New South Wales\n\n3. New South Wales Indexes for Births, Deaths and Marriages\n\n4. Relevant Church Parish Records and transcripts, birth, death and marriage certificates\n\n5. Death notice or other article: newspaper [TROVE: National Library of Australia ]\n\n6. \"British Newspaper Archive\"\n7. Index of NSW Convicts\n\n8. 1791-1825 Register of Conditional Pardons\n\n9. New South Wales Registry of Births, Deaths and Marriages\n\n10. 1828 Census of New South Wales\n\n11. Householders' Returns, 1841 Census of New South Wales\n\n12. Sands Post Office Directory of Sydney (various years)\n\n13. Sydney Street Directories (various publishers and editions)\n\n14. Passenger list \"Northampton\" [held by National Library of Australia ]\n\n15. \"Government Gazettes\" [available on various web-sites]\n\n16. Ryerson Index [Internet]\n\n17. World War One Nominal Roll\n\n18. The AIF Project [University of New South Wales]\n\n19. Catalogue of the Society of Australian Genealogists (Arch Gray Collection; AGCI Index (Australian Genealogical Computer Index); J D Mutch Index)\n\n"}
{"id": "5538464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5538464", "title": "Joey Moss", "text": "Joey Moss\n\nJoseph Neil \"Joey\" Moss (born September 25, 1963) is the locker room attendant for the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League and the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League. Born with Down syndrome, Moss caught the eye of Oilers centre Wayne Gretzky in 1985, when Gretzky was dating Moss' sister, Vikki. Impressed with the dedication Moss brought to a job at an Edmonton bottle depot, Gretzky suggested to team general manager Glen Sather that the young man be given a tryout.\n\nAs the summer of 1986 came around, Gretzky was worried that Joey would lose everything he had learned with the Oilers, so Gretzky called up the equipment manager of the Edmonton Eskimos, Dwayne Mandrusiak, and asked him if Joey could work with them during training camp. Gretzky even offered to pay Joey's wages for the team.\n\nMoss' career with the Oilers long outlasted Gretzky's, and his determination and passion for hockey have made him a nationwide celebrity and a major symbol of continuity within the franchise. (In 2006, during a surprising Oiler playoff run, he delayed elective surgery for a hernia in order to see the Stanley Cup playoffs through to the finish.) His main duties with the team include cleaning, handling towels and water, and running errands for former equipment manager Lyle \"Sparky\" Kulchisky.\n\nIn 2003, Moss received the NHL Alumni Association's \"Seventh Man Award\" in recognition of outstanding behind-the-scenes service to the league. The Joey Moss Cup, a trophy contended for by Oilers players in an annual split-squad game near the end of training camp, is named after him.\n\nMoss' dedication to the Edmonton Eskimos and the Oilers was recognized when a mural was unveiled on October 20, 2008 on 99th Street in Edmonton. He was recognized again on November 14, 2012 with the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal. (Video of the Ceremony) On May 29, 2015, Moss was inducted into the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nMoss was born to Lloyd Orval Moss and Sophie Frances Moss (née Murias).\nJoey is number twelve of thirteen children; 9 boys, 4 girls\n\n"}
{"id": "465479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465479", "title": "John Langdon (politician)", "text": "John Langdon (politician)\n\nJohn Langdon (June 26, 1741September 18, 1819) was a politician from Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and a Founding Father of the United States. He served as a delegate to the Constitutional Convention, signed the United States Constitution, and was one of the first two United States senators from that state.\n\nAs a member of the Continental Congress Langdon was an early supporter of the Revolutionary War. He later served in United States Congress for 12 years, including as the first president pro tempore of the Senate, before becoming governor of New Hampshire. He turned down a nomination for Vice Presidential candidate in 1812.\n\nLangdon's father was a prosperous farmer and local ship builder whose family had emigrated to America before 1660 from Sheviock, Caradon, Cornwall. The Langdons were among the first to settle near the mouth of the Piscataqua River, a settlement which became Portsmouth, one of New England's major seaports. Langdon attended the local grammar school run by a veteran of the 1745 Siege of Louisbourg against the French at Fortress Louisbourg in New France. After finishing his primary education, he served an apprenticeship as a clerk. He and his older brother, Woodbury Langdon, rejected the opportunity to join pop in their father's successful agricultural livelihood and apprenticed themselves to local naval merchants instead.\n\nBy age 22, Langdon was captain of a cargo ship called the \"Andromache,\" sailing to the West Indies. Four years later he owned his first merchantman, and would continue over time to acquire a small fleet of vessels engaging in the triangle trade between Portsmouth, the Caribbean, and London. His older brother was even more successful in international trade, and by 1777 both young men were among Portsmouth's wealthiest citizens.\n\nBritish control of the shipping industries greatly hurt Langdon's business, motivating him to become a vigorous and prominent supporter of the revolutionary movement in the 1770s. He served on the New Hampshire Committee of Correspondence and a nonimportation committee, and also attended various Patriot assemblies. In 1774, he participated in the seizure and confiscation of British munitions from Fort William and Mary.\n\nLangdon served as a member of the Second Continental Congress from 1775 to 1776. He resigned in June 1776 to become agent for the Continental forces against the British and superintended the construction of several warships including the \"Raleigh\", the \"America\", and the \"Ranger\", which was captained by John Paul Jones. In 1777, he equipped an expedition against the British, participating in the Battle of Bennington and commanding Langdon's Company of Light Horse Volunteers at Saratoga and in Rhode Island.\n\nIn 1784 he built at Portsmouth the mansion now known as the Governor John Langdon House. Langdon was elected to two terms as President of New Hampshire, once between 1785 and 1786 and again between 1788 and 1789. He was a member of the Congress of the Confederation in 1787 and became a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, serving as a member of the New Hampshire delegation. Langdon was elected to the U.S. Senate and served from March 4, 1789 to March 3, 1801. He was elected the first President pro tempore of the Senate on April 6, 1789, and also served as president pro tempore during the second Congress.\n\nDuring the 1787 constitutional debates in Philadelphia, Langdon spoke out against James Madison's proposed \"negative\" on state laws simply because he felt that should the Senate be granted this power and not the House of Representatives, it would \"hurt the feelings\" of House members.\n\nIn 1798, Langdon assisted Oney Judge to evade Burwell Bassett, the nephew of George and Martha Washington, who had intended to kidnap Judge and return her to slavery with the Washingtons.\n\nLangdon later served as a member of the New Hampshire Legislature (1801–05), with the last two terms as speaker; he served as governor from 1805 to 1812, except for a year between 1809 and 1810. In 1808, his niece, Catherine Whipple Langdon, married Edmund Roberts. Langdon declined the nomination to be a candidate for Vice President with James Madison in 1812, and later retired. He died in Portsmouth in 1819 and was interred at the Langdon Tomb in the .\n\nThe town of Langdon, New Hampshire is named after him, as well as Langdon Street in Madison, Wisconsin, a town with numerous streets named after founding fathers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "389463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=389463", "title": "Joiner", "text": "Joiner\n\nA joiner is an artisan who builds things by joining pieces of wood, particularly lighter and more ornamental work than that done by a carpenter, including furniture and the \"fittings\" of a house, ship, etc. Joiners may work in a workshop, because the formation of various joints is made easier by the use of non-portable, powered machinery, or on job site. A joiner usually produces items such as interior and exterior doors, windows, stairs, tables, bookshelves, cabinets, furniture, etc. In shipbuilding a \"marine joiner\" may work with materials other than wood such as linoleum, fiberglass, hardware, and gaskets.\n\nThe terms \"joinery\" and \"joiner\" are used in the UK, and the main trade union for American carpenters still calls itself the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America.\n\nIn the UK, an apprentice of wood occupations could choose to study \"bench joinery\" or \"site carpentry and joinery.\" Bench joinery is the preparation, setting out, and manufacture of joinery components while site carpentry and joinery focus on the installation of the joinery components, and on the setting out and fabrication of timber elements used in construction.\n\nThe Institute of Carpenters recognises the following professionals working in wood:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9936538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936538", "title": "Julia Polak", "text": "Julia Polak\n\nDr Dame Julia Margaret Polak, DBE, FMedSci (26 June 1939 – 11 August 2014) was an Argentine-born British pathologist. She was head of the Centre for Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine at Imperial College London, a centre for medical research she set up with Larry Hench, also from Imperial College, to develop cells and tissues for transplantation into humans.\n\nJulia Polak was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina. She was educated at the University of Buenos Aires, before moving to London. She was married to a fellow academic, and had three children.\n\nPolak was one of the longest surviving recipients of a heart and lung transplant in the United Kingdom. It was her transplant in 1995 which caused her to change her career direction from pathology towards the newly developing field of tissue engineering.\n\nShe was editor of the journal, \"Tissue Engineering\", as well as a member of the MRC/UK Stem Cell Bank Clinical and User Liaison Committee and an advisor to the Science and Parliament Committees. She was recognized as one of the most highly cited and influential researchers in her field.\n\nHer work was recognized by the Society for Endocrinology, the International Academy of Pathology and the Association of Clinical Pathologists. She received funding through the Texas/United Kingdom Collaborative Research Initiative in Biosciences. \n\nShe was named in the Queen's Birthday Honours List 2003 and was made Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for her services to medicine. In 2004 she received the Ellison-Cliffe Medal from the Royal Society of Medicine.\n\nDr Dame Julia Polak died on 11 August 2014, aged 75, from undisclosed causes.\n\n"}
{"id": "54042784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54042784", "title": "Kangani system", "text": "Kangani system\n\nThe Kangani system was a form of labour recruitment and organisation in parts of Southeast Asia under British colonial rule, generally in operation from the early 19th century until the early 20th century, specifically the areas now known as Myanmar, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka. The system was similar to indentured servitude and both were in operation during the same period, with the kangani system becoming more popular from late 19th century onward. Under the kangani system, recruitment and management were taken up by people called the \"kangani\" (from the Tamil word for foreman), who directly recruited migrants from India- especially South India in Tamil-majority areas- via networks of friends, family and other contacts, with that same person then responsible for the supervision of the labourers he recruited. . The leader of these groups of immigrants had considerable control over their affairs and generally forced them to enter debt-bondage relationships by illegally deducting their wages. In smaller groups they might work as labourers themselves in addition to their other responsibilities but in larger groups their role was more one of organisation, supervision and dealing with the landowner. With certain estimates showing that nearly 1 in 8 Indian labourers in Burma was a kangani, some have argued that stepping into the role of recruiter and supervisor, with its accompanied rise in income and status, was a relatively achievable form of social mobility among the labourers of the plantations.Mostly Tamil low community such as Vanniyar,Muthuraja and Panchamas were migrated under kangani system. \n"}
{"id": "11943751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11943751", "title": "King Mosiah I", "text": "King Mosiah I\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Mosiah I () was a Nephite prophet who led the Nephites from the land of Nephi to the land of Zarahemla and was later appointed king. He was the father of King Benjamin and the first of two individuals in the Book of Mormon with the name Mosiah. His grandson, Mosiah II was Benjamin's son and was king of the Nephite nation from about 124 BC to 91 BC.\n\nThe history of Mosiah I is limited to Amaleki's account in the Book of Omni.\n\nFollowing a period of \"much war and contention between...the Nephites, and the Lamanites\", Mosiah was \"warned of the Lord that he should flee out of the land of Nephi, and as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord should also depart out of the land with him, into the wilderness\". The journey led them to the land of Zarahemla, inhabited by a group of people who had come from Jerusalem at the \"time that Zedekiah, king of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon\". The two groups united and appointed Mosiah their king.\n\nMosiah I also translated engravings found on a stone which gave an account of the Jaredites, another people who had previously inhabited the area.\n\nHugh Nibley relates the name to a combination of the name Moses with that of Yahweh (Jehovah).\n\nThe Egyptian root \"msy\", \"child of\", has been considered as a possible etymology for the name Moses, arguably an abbreviation of a theophoric name, as for example in Egyptian names like Thutmoses (Thoth created him) and Ramesses (Ra created him), with the god's name omitted. In the case of Mosiah, the inversion of the elements could yield the combination \"son of Yah\".\n\nThe name is also similar to Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible, and the \"-iah\" suffix can be found in a number of Book of Mormon names such as Amalickiah and Sariah, as well as the Biblical names Jeremiah and Zedekiah.\n"}
{"id": "41143773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41143773", "title": "Lane Adams", "text": "Lane Adams\n\nLane Weston Adams (born November 13, 1989) is an American professional baseball outfielder who is a free agent. He made his Major League Baseball (MLB) debut with the Kansas City Royals in 2014, and has also played for the Atlanta Braves.\n\nAdams attended Red Oak High School in Red Oak, Oklahoma. Playing for the school's basketball team, he scored 3,251 points, making him the fifth-highest scorer in Oklahoma high school basketball history. He committed to attend Missouri State University on a basketball scholarship. \n\nThe Royals selected Adams in the 13th round of the 2009 MLB Draft, and he signed with the Royals rather than attending college.\n\nAdams played for the Northwest Arkansas Naturals of the Class AA Texas League in 2013. After the 2013 season, the Royals added Adams to their 40-man roster.\n\nOn September 1, 2014, the Royals promoted Adams to the major leagues. He made his Major League debut that night, replacing Raúl Ibañez as a pinch runner in the eighth inning of the Royals' game against the Texas Rangers. He was released in November 2015.\n\nAdams spent the 2015 season in the minor leagues. After the season, the New York Yankees claimed Adams off of waivers.\n\nOn August 3, 2016, Adams signed a minor league deal with the Chicago Cubs.\n\nAdams signed a minor league contract with the Atlanta Braves organization on December 13, 2016. The Braves promoted him to the Major Leagues on April 25, 2017. Adams recorded his first major league hit in a game against the Milwaukee Brewers four days later. Adams hit his first major league home run, a three-run shot, against the San Francisco Giants on June 22, 2017. On September 10, Adams hit a 2-run, walk off home run against the Miami Marlins in the 11th inning. This home run clinched the N.L. East for the Washington Nationals. On April 19, 2018, Adams was designated for assignment by the Braves. He refused an assignment to the Gwinnett Stripers and elected free agency on April 27, 2018.\n\nOn May 5, 2018, Adams signed a minor league deal with the Chicago Cubs. \n\nOn July 16, 2018, Adams signed a minor league deal with the Atlanta Braves. He was called up to the major leagues on September 1, 2018. The Braves outrighted him to the minors on October 31, 2018. He elected free agency on November 2. \n\nAdams is a citizen of the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma.\n"}
{"id": "16550707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16550707", "title": "List of burial places of biblical figures", "text": "List of burial places of biblical figures\n\nThe following is a list of burial places attributed to Biblical personalities according to various religious and local traditions. The locations listed are not based on factual evidence, but rather locations mentioned in the text of the Bible or oral traditions of indigenous peoples. Lebanon, Israel, the Palestinian territories, Iraq, Jordan and Iran have put monuments on the grave locations in an attempt to preserve them as holy sites. Many sites have been transmitted from generation to generation and there are historical accounts from travellers which state their existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32621575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32621575", "title": "List of people from Mexicali", "text": "List of people from Mexicali\n\nThis is a list of people from Mexicali, Baja California.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43495113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43495113", "title": "List of people with locked-in syndrome", "text": "List of people with locked-in syndrome\n\nKate Allatt is a mother-of-three from Sheffield, South Yorkshire, who has successfully recovered from locked-in syndrome. She now runs Fighting Strokes and devotes her life to assisting those who have locked-in syndrome.\n\nFrench journalist Jean-Dominique Bauby suffered a stroke in December 1995. When he awoke 20 days later, he found his body was almost completely paralyzed; he could control only his left eyelid (as the other was sewn shut to prevent an infection). By blinking this eye, he slowly dictated one alphabetic character at a time and, in so doing, was able over a great length of time to write his memoir, \"The Diving Bell and the Butterfly\"; the memoir was adapted to the screen in a namesake 2007 movie. Three days after the book was published in March 1997, Bauby died from pneumonia. He was instrumental in forming the Association du Locked in Syndrome (ALIS) in France.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, Rabbi Ronnie Cahana of Congregation Beth-El in Montreal suffered a severe brainstem stroke that left him in a locked-in state, able to communicate only with his eyes. With his family's help he continued to write poems and sermons for his congregation, letter by letter, by blinking. He has since regained his ability to breathe by himself and speak. He describes his experiences as a blessing and a spiritual revelation of body and mind. His story was told in a Ted Talk given by his daughter called \"My father, locked in his body but soaring free\". He is the son of painter Alice Lok Cahana.\n\nLynsey Cribbin, from Cavan, Ireland, woke up with several headaches in January 2012. She suffered multiple strokes which left her on life support and eventually with one of the most severe cases of locked-in syndrome. Her brain works but she cannot move.\n\nStephen Hawking had a progressive motor neuron disease related to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) that began developing in the early 1960s. He was almost entirely paralyzed and communicated using a speech generating device. In 2005, as the disease progressed, he began to control his communication device with movements of his cheek muscles, with a rate of about one word per minute. Hawking collaborated with researchers on systems that could translate his brain patterns or facial expressions into switch activations.\n\nIn 1983, Rom Houben survived a near-fatal car crash and was diagnosed as being in a vegetative state. Twenty-three years later, using \"modern brain imaging techniques and equipment\", doctors revised his diagnosis to locked-in syndrome. He was initially reported as communicating by typing into a keyboard with his right hand, though the presence of a facilitator to move his hand attracted sharp criticism and strong doubts that Houben's communications were authentic.\n\nIn early 2010, Dr. Steven Laureys, Houben's neurologist, admitted that subsequent tests had demonstrated Houben had not actually been communicating via the facilitator, and \"Der Spiegel\", which had originally \"quoted\" many of Houben's facilitated statements, retracted those quotes as being inauthentic. Laureys maintained the MRI data that had led him to diagnose Houben as locked-in still suggested he was conscious.\n\nHouben's case had been thought to call into question the current methods of diagnosing vegetative state and arguments against withholding care from such patients.\n\nIn 1993, Graham Miles, originally from Sanderstead, London Borough of Croydon, suffered a stroke after which he could not move any part of his body except his eyes. His condition improved gradually, to the point that in 2010 he was able to walk with two sticks and drive a car.\n\nIn 2002, Elias Musiris made headlines as the first fully locked-in patient to regain some measure of communication through EEG. Though ALS had left Musiris unable even to move his eyes or blink, training from neurological researcher Niels Birbaumer taught him to use an EEG brain-machine interface to answer yes-or-no questions and spell his name.\n\nTony Nicklinson was born on the 2 April 1954. Nicklinson was a rugby union player and a successful civil engineer. The 58 year old was paralysed from the neck down after suffering a stroke in 2005, he was not able to speak or move any parts of his body apart from his head and eyes. He had spent two-and-a-half years undergoing therapy in hospital before moving home in a wheelchair to be cared by his wife, Jane, and his two teenage daughters Lauren and Beth. He described his life as a “living nightmare\". \n\nNicklinson attempted to seek a landmark ruling in the British courts which would have allowed him the right to an assisted death, but he lost the case in the High Court. He eventually died on 20 August 2012 at his home in Melksham, Wiltshire by refusing food. His family continued his case after his death, before it was ultimately rejected in the Supreme Court. \n\nEoin O'Mahony of Blarney, Ireland developed headaches while studying for his Leaving Certificate in 2001. Brain surgery was carried out at Cork University Hospital. Then O'Mahony entered a coma-like state. He cannot even use a finger to press a button for assistance. The High Court has been told that he \"essentially suffers from locked-in syndrome.\"\n\nIn 2010, ex-Premiership footballer Gary Parkinson suffered a massive stroke and was later diagnosed with locked-in syndrome. This, however, has not ended his career in football, as he is now part of Middlesbrough F.C.'s scouting analysis team, watching potential players on DVD and relaying the verdict to the Middlesbrough manager Tony Mowbray solely through blinking.\n\nMartin Pistorius began developing locked-in syndrome when he was 12 years old. He went into a coma for 2–3 years, after which point he slowly regained consciousness but was unable to communicate this to others until he was around 19 years of age. Now capable of some movement and able to communicate with a speech computer, Pistorius currently works as a freelance web designer/developer and has published a book about his life entitled \"Ghost Boy\".\n\nTony Quan, a popular graffiti artist, was diagnosed with the nerve disorder ALS in 2003, which eventually left him fully paralyzed except for his eyes. Quan uses the technology called EyeWriter to communicate his art and has since had his work displayed in numerous art shows nationally.\n\nIn 1999, 16-year-old Erik Ramsey suffered a stroke after a car accident that left him in a locked-in state. His story was profiled in an edition of \"Esquire\" magazine in 2008. Ramsey is currently working with doctors to develop a new communication system that uses a computer that, through implants in his brain, reads the electronic signals produced when he thinks certain words and sounds. At present, Ramsey is only able to communicate short and basic sounds. However, doctors believe, within a few years, Ramsey will be able to use this system to communicate words and phrases, and eventually, to \"talk\" normally.\n\nIn 1966, Julia Tavalaro, then aged 32, suffered two strokes and a brain hemorrhage and was sent to Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island, New York. For six years, she was believed to be in a vegetative state. In 1972, a family member noticed her trying to smile after she heard a joke. After alerting doctors, a speech therapist, Arlene Kratt, discerned cognizance in her eye movements. Kratt and another therapist, Joyce Sabari, were eventually able to convince doctors she was in a locked-in state. After learning to communicate with eye blinks in response to letters being pointed to on an alphabet board, she became a poet and author. Eventually, she gained the ability to move her head enough to touch a switch with her cheek, which operated a motorized wheelchair and a computer. She gained national attention in 1995 when Richard E. Meyer of the \"Los Angeles Times\" published a cover story about Tavalaro. In 1997, Erika Duncan's profile of Tavalaro and her co-author Richard Tayson, \"Decades After Silence, a Voice Is Recognized,\" ran in the Long Island edition of \"The New York Times\" and in April 1997, \"The Long Road Home\" appeared in \"Newsday\". Tavalaro appears with Richard Tayson on \"Dateline NBC\" and Melissa Etheridge's Beyond Chance (Lifetime). Their book was published by Viking-Penguin in 1998 and was translated into German, where it was published as Bis auf den Grund des Ozeans by Verlag Herder. Tavalaro's story became a bestseller in Germany. She died on December 19, 2003 at the age of 68.\n\nChristine Waddell is Britain's longest survivor of locked-in syndrome, which left her in a state of constant paralysis, but awareness. At the age of 26 in April 1997, she fell in her bathroom. She tried to get up but ultimately fell again and lay there for three days – until a colleague noticed her absence from work and her father broke into her flat. Seventeen months in the hospital followed before she moved in with her parents. After years of suffering she was given a grant for a computer which allows her to communicate. She is now able to use the Internet and to communicate with old friends and others who have locked-in syndrome. She also listens to music and audiobooks, is able to swallow melted chocolate, and sometimes has occasional vodka via her feeding tube. She misses most the ability to talk and regrets being unable to eat burgers. In 2013 she ate for the first time in 17 years. She now stands with less support, reaching on a bench, holding her head up alone, and can ride a stationary bike in physiotherapy.\n\nThe character of M. Noirtier de Villefort in Alexandre Dumas' novel \"The Count of Monte Cristo\" (1844) apparently suffers from locked-in syndrome. He is described as a \"corpse with living eyes\", who communicates with eye movements and expressions. His granddaughter Valentine helps him form sentences by reciting the alphabet and scanning dictionary pages with her finger until he indicates which letters and words he wants.\n\nIn the first novel \"A Game of Thrones\", the character Khal Drogo succumbs into a vegetative state after suffering septicemia countered by blood magic, resulting in complete paralysis. Though he is able to move his eyes along the orbit of the sun, he is implied to be blind and that he can sense it only because of the heat. His wife, Daenerys, ultimately suffocates him out of pity.\n\nIn Émile Zola's novel \"Thérèse Raquin\" (1867), Thérèse Raquin and her second husband Laurent accidentally reveal to Thérèse's aunt, Madame Raquin (who has suffered from locked-in syndrome after a stroke), that they have murdered Camille Raquin (Madame Raquin's son). One day, when some friends are over, Madame Raquin eventually musters an enormous amount of strength to move her finger on a table, tracing words that would reveal Thérèse and Laurent's deed. However, she is interrupted, and her words are misinterpreted as \"Thérèse and Laurent have taken good care of me\".\n\n\"Johnny Got His Gun\" (1938) is a novel by American author and screenwriter Dalton Trumbo, which describes a young American soldier who loses both his arms, his legs, and his face in World War I. This novel portrays \"how it might feel to be totally locked-in\", but it is not a true case of \"locked-in syndrome\", according to the WHO definition. Johnny attempts to communicate with the outside world using Morse code through his eyelids and weakly chanting \"SOS Help me\".\n\nThe character of Jean-Louis Martin in Bernard Werber's sci-fi novel \"L'Ultime Secret\" (2001), suffers from locked-in syndrome after being paralyzed in a car accident. Able at first only communicate by blinking – once for \"Yes\" and twice for \"No\" – with the use of high tech, he eventually gains control not only over his own mind, but that of others.\n\nSharon McCone, the protagonist of Marcia Muller's suspense novel \"Locked In\" (2009), is the founder of a successful San Francisco detective agency. On returning to her office late one night, she is shot in the head. She wakes up in a hospital able to move only her eyes, forced to struggle to rehabilitate herself while finding the attacker.\n\nMark Billingham's novel \"Sleepyhead\" (2013) addresses a criminal who purposely manipulates pressure points on each victim's head and neck with the intention of inducing locked-in syndrome.\n\nThe book \"The Diving Bell and the Butterfly\" is a memoir by journalist Jean-Dominique Bauby. It describes what his life is like after suffering a massive stroke that left him with locked-in syndrome. It also details what his life was like before the stroke.\n\nJohn Scalzi's science fiction police procedural Lock In is based on a society where large numbers have the locked-in-like Haden's Syndrome due to a pandemic, and are able to interact with the world through BCI-controlled bodies.\n\nIn D. R. Merrill's 2014 science-fiction novel, the Alplai virologist and epidemiologist Gihuunak appears to have a form of locked-in syndrome, being confined to a motorized wheelchair and using a speech computer to communicate.\n\nIn season 1, episode 7 of \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", titled \"Breakdown\" (November 13, 1955 on CBS), the sole survivor of a violent collision (Joseph Cotten) finds himself in a locked-in state, unable even to move an eyelid. The viewer experiences the victim's point of view, \"hearing\" his thoughts and feelings as they run from shock to anger to frustration to the realization that he may be put in his grave alive.\n\nIn the \"Criminal Minds\" episode \"The Uncanny Valley\", the unsub Samantha Malcolm induces locked-in syndrome using a series of drugs in three women. Her reason is she is trying to complete a series of dolls she lost as a young girl. Every two months, a woman will die as the stress wreaks havoc on the body. Only one woman, who has diabetes, is able to counteract the drugs and fight off her locked-in syndrome. The episode \"To Bear Witness\" also use locked-in syndrome after a man falls into locked-in syndrome after surviving a botched lobotomy and communicates to Derek (Shemar Moore) through blinks.\n\nThe \"\" episode \"Blink\" presented an instance of locked-in syndrome wherein a woman (portrayed by Jewel Christian) was sedated by the killer, who applied pressure to certain points on her head, resulting in her paralysis. The killer's previous attempts resulted in his victims' dying.\n\nThe \"House M.D.\" episode \"Locked In\" presented a case of locked-in syndrome, which later turned into a case of total locked-in syndrome; the patient was portrayed by Mos Def.\n\nIn the \"Scrubs\" episode \"His Story III\", a patient (played by Henry LeBlanc) is presented with locked-in syndrome.\n\nIn the \"Star Trek\" episode \"\", Star Fleet captain Christopher Pike (played by Jeffrey Hunter when healthy, and Sean Kenney when injured) is severely burned, completely paralyzed, and can communicate only by brain waves; he can operate an electrical wheelchair and can answer yes/no questions by \"one flash for yes, two flashes for no\". This episode aired in November 1966; the first actual such interface was done by Fetz at the University of Washington in 1969, as noted in brain–computer interface.\n\nOn the Ted Talk website a talk was posted about the story of one family's journey with a brainstem stroke called: \"My Father, Locked-in his Body but Soaring Free\". Another talk was given about graffiti artist TEMPT and the open source eye tracking device that was developed for him by his friends. \"The Invention That Unlocked A Locked In Artist\"\n"}
{"id": "29064622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29064622", "title": "Ma Haiyan", "text": "Ma Haiyan\n\nMa Haiyan (1837–1900) was a Chinese Muslim General of the Qing Dynasty. Originally a rebel, he defected to Qing during the Dungan revolt and helped crush rebel Muslims.\n\nHe was the father of Ma Qi and Ma Lin (warlord) and of Ma Feng 馬風.\n\nDong Fuxiang, Ma Anliang and Ma Haiyan were originally called to Beijing during the First Sino-Japanese War in 1894, but the Dungan Revolt (1895) broke out and they were subsequently sent to crush the rebels.\n\nDuring the Hundred Days' Reform in 1898 Dong Fuxiang, Ma Anliang, and Ma Haiyan were called to Beijing and helped put an end to the reform movement along with Ma Fulu and Ma Fuxiang.\n\nHe fought against the foreign Eight Nation Alliance in the Boxer Rebellion with his nephew Ma Biao serving under him, besieged the Catholic Xishiku Cathedral and the legations, and defeated the Alliance at Battle of Langfang, and died of exhaustion while he and the Kansu Braves were escorting the Imperial family to safety. His son Ma Qi took over his posts.\n\nMa Biao was the eldest son of Ma Haiqing 馬海清, who was the sixth younger brother of Ma Haiyan, the grandfather of Ma Bufang. Ma Haiyuan (Ma Hai-yüan) 馬海淵 was the seventh younger brother of Ma Haiyan, father of Ma Guzhong and Ma Bao (Ma Pao) 馬寶, and grandfather of Ma Zhongying.\n"}
{"id": "45711199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45711199", "title": "Magnes the shepherd", "text": "Magnes the shepherd\n\nMagnes the shepherd, sometimes described as Magnes the shepherd boy, is a mythological figure, possibly based on a real person, who was cited by Pliny the Elder (23 CE – 79 CE) as discovering natural magnetism. His name, \"Magnes\", the Latin word for \"magnetite\", has been attributed as the origin of the Latin root that has passed into English, giving its speakers the words \"magnet\", \"magnetism\", the mentioned ore, and related formulations. Other authorities have attributed the word origin to other sources.\n\nAs set out in Pliny's \"Naturalis Historia\" (\"Natural History\"), an early encyclopedia published c. 77 CE – c. 79 CE, and as translated from the Latin in Robert Jacobus Forbes' \"Studies in Ancient Technology\", Pliny wrote the following (attributing the source of his information, in turn, to Nicander of Colophon):\nNicander is our authority that it [magnetite ore] was called Magnes from the man who first discovered it on Mount Ida and he is said to have found it when the nails of his shoes and the ferrule of his staff adhered to it, as he was pasturing his herds.\nThe passage appears at Book XXXVI of \"Naturalis Historia\", covering \"The Natural History of Stones\", at chapter 25 entitled \"The Magnet: Three Remedies\". Although Pliny's description is often cited, the story of Magnes the shepherd is postulated by physicist Gillian Turner to be much older, dating from approximately 900 BCE.\nAny writings Nicander may have made on the subject have since been lost.\n\nWritten in approximately 600 CE, book XVI of \"Etymologiae\" by Isidore of Seville tells the same story as Pliny, but places Magnes in India. This is repeated in Vincent of Beauvais' \"Miroir du Monde\" (c. 1250 CE) and in Thomas Nicols' 1652 work, \"Lapidary, or, the History of Pretious Stones\", wherein he describes Magnes as a \"shepherd of India, who was wont to keep his flocks about those mountains in India, where there was an abundance of lodestones\".\n\nFollowing from Pliny's account, the shepherd's name has been often cited as giving rise to the Latin root word and etymological source of the English word for magnet and the coterie of its related word forms such as \"magnetite\", \"magnet\", \"magnetism\", \"magnesium\", \"manganese\" and others. Other authorities, including the Roman poet and philosopher Lucretius (c. 99 BCE – c. 55 BCE), have attributed the etymology of \"magnet\", and progeny, to the name of the Lydian city, Magnesia ad Sipylum (Manisa, Turkey in modern times), where magnetic ore may have first been discovered or recognized. Other ancient locations have been attributed as the origin, including the Greek province Thracian Magnesia, and the Ionian city of Magnesia ad Maeandrum.\n\nThe idea that the legend of Magnes the shepherd could be the origin of \"magnet\", et al., and the legend itself has been criticized. Pliny's story is characterized in Gillian Turner's book \"North Pole, South Pole: The Epic Quest to Solve the Great Mystery of Earth’s Magnetism\" (2011) as \"no doubt embellished by centuries of retelling.\" In the 1896 treatise \"Coil and Current; or the Triumphs of Electricity\", the authors write: 'Magnet' is derived from the legend of Magnes, or from the territory of Magnesia. Pliny states that Magnes, the shepherd, discovered it, and the legend told of him is that while carrying a message over Mount Ida he felt his feet clinging to the earth, to the iron ore which lay thickly upon the hill. Hence the name of the Magnet. But Magnesia was a territory whence this native iron was for hundreds of years exported, and the name \"Magnet\" is, no doubt, due to this place.\n\n"}
{"id": "49990959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49990959", "title": "Mama Fatima Singhateh", "text": "Mama Fatima Singhateh\n\nMama Fatima Singhateh is a Gambian lawyer, judge, and politician. She served as Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Gambia from 2013 to 2014, and again from 2015 to 2017. From 2009 to 2013, she was a judge in the Gambia.\n\nMama Singhateh went through her basic and Secondary School Education in Banjul The Gambia. She then proceeded to the University of Hull, United Kingdom, from which she graduated with and LLB (Hons) in 1997. She went on to obtain a Masters in International Business Law from the same university in 1998. Between 1998 and 1999 she completed the Bar Vocational Course at the University of Wales and was called to the Bar of England and Wales as Barrister.\n\nBefore her appointment as Minister Mama Fatima Singhateh held several positions within the Attorney General's Chambers of The Gambia, first as State Counsel in 2002 then as Senior State Counsel and then as Principal Drafts person. Between 2007 and 2009 Mama Singhateh branched into the private sector where she headed the legal Department at one of the International Banks before being appointed Judge of the High Court of The Gambia\n\nIn August 2009, upon the recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission, Mama Fatima Singhateh was appointed as Judge of the High Court by His Excellency President Yaya Jammeh. Having performed Excellently well in this role she was elevated to the Gambia Court of Appeal in 2012 where she served until her appointment as Minister of Justice. While at the Judiciary Justice Singhateh was the Project Coordinator of the UNDP Justice Sector project under which huge strides were made in the administration of justice and improvement in the legal capacity of the judiciary.\n\nIn August 2013 Mama Singhateh was appointed to the Cabinet of the Government of The Gambia to occupy the position of Attorney General and Minister of Justice. This appointment was seen as a very strategic one given her previous vast experience within this Ministry. Her stint as Minister saw the launch of major projects within the justice sector, notably the refurbishment of the Ministry's premises and for the very first time, the launching of the Single Business Window Registry. \n\nShe was relieved of her appointment as Minister of Justice in August 2014. In January 2015 she was re-appointed Attorney General and Minister of Justice, a position that she currently holds.\n"}
{"id": "50898566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50898566", "title": "Mangeshkar family", "text": "Mangeshkar family\n\nThe Mangeshkar family is a prominent Indian family, headed by Deenanath Mangeshkar. The family is of Maharashtrian origin from paternal side and Gujarati origin from maternal side. Many members of the family have been successful singers/music composers in the Hindi film industry.\n\nThe father of this famous musical family, Deenanath Mangeshkar was born in 29 December 1900 in the village of Mangeshi, then in Portuguese India to a temple priest and handmaiden of the deity Mangesh. His father, Ganesh Bhatt Navathe (Abhisheki), was a Karhade Brahmin who served as priest at the famous Mangueshi Temple in Goa and his mother belonged to Gomantak Maratha Samaj. The family's last name used to be Hardikar; Deenanath changed it to Mangeshkar in order to identify his family with his native town - Mangeshi.\n\nThe mother of the family, Shevanti (later renamed Shudhamati), a Gujarati woman from Thalner, Bombay Presidency (now in northwest Maharashtra), was Deenanath's second wife; his first wife Narmada was Shevanti's older sister, but she died early. The father of Shevanti and Narmada was a Gujarati businessman and landlord Sheth Haridas Ramdas Lad of Thalner. Lata Mangeshkar learnt Gujarati folk songs such as garbas of Pavagadh from her maternal grandmother. Deenanath Mangeshkar had 5 children namely Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosle, Usha Mangeshkar, Meena Khadikar and Hridaynath Mangeshkar.\n\nLata Mangeshkar is one of the best-known and most respected playback singers in India. She remained unmarried.\n\nAsha Bhosle is best known as a playback singer in Hindi cinema, although she has a wider repertoire. Asha, at the age of 16, had eloped with 31-year-old Ganpatrao Bhosle. They separated in 1960. They have three children and five grandchildren. The eldest of her three children, Hemant Bhosle (named after Hemant Kumar), spent most of his early years as a pilot and quit to have a brief career as a music director. Bhosle's daughter Varsha committed suicide on 8 October 2012, she was 56 years old and worked as a columnist for \"The Sunday Observer\" and \"Rediff\".\n\nAsha's youngest child, Anand Bhosle, has studied business and film direction. He manages Asha's career. Her grandson, Chaitanya (Chintu) Bhosle (Hemant's son) is a part of the world of music. He is a member of India's first & only boy band, \"A Band of Boys\".\n\nHemant Bhosle 's best known composed duets were the Kishore Asha duets like Aji Kaho Kya Haal Hai from An padh picturised on Vijendra Ghatke and Sarika and Salamat Raho Tum from same film Anpadh picturised on Ashok Kumar and Sarika. Her son Hemant died of cancer in 2015. Hemant's son Chaitanya Bhosle is a singer and has few albums to his name.\n\nAsha's first husband Ganpatrao was her personal secretary. Their marriage failed miserably in 1960. Her husband and in-laws mistreated her. After a few years of marriage, Asha was turned out by a suspicious Ganpatrao and she went to her maternal home with two children and pregnant with her third child. She continued to sing in films to earn money. Asha married Rahul Dev Burman in 1980. This was second marriage for both Rahul and Asha. Rahul, 6 years younger than her, earlier got divorced from Rita Patel in 1971.\n\nUsha Mangeshkar is an Indian singer who has recorded many Hindi, Marathi, Nepali, Bhojpuri and Gujarati songs. She remained unmarried.\n\nMeena Khadikar is an Indian Marathi and Hindi language playback singer and composer. She is also popular for composing various children's songs. She married to Mr. Khadikar who died around 2011. Her son Yogesh Khadikar has recorded a few songs. Yogesh is married to Jitendra Abhisheki's daughter.\n\nHridaynath Mangeshkar is a music composer and singer. He is married to Bharati Malvankar Mangeshkar, daughter of Marathi comedian Damuanna Malvankar. They have two sons Aadinath Mangeshkar and Baijnath Mangeshkar and a daughter Radha Mangeshkar. In 2009, Radha launched her debut album \"Naav Maaza Shaami\". She has been trained by Hridaynath and accompanies him in various stage shows.\n"}
{"id": "33066633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33066633", "title": "Marcel Hug", "text": "Marcel Hug\n\nMarcel Eric Hug (born 18 January 1986) is a Paralympian athlete from Switzerland competing in category T54 wheelchair racing events. Hug, nicknamed 'The Silver Bullet', has competed in four Summer Paralympic Games for Switzerland, winning two bronze medals in his first Games in Athens in 2004. In 2010 he set four world records in four days, and at the 2011 World Championships he won a gold in the 10,000 metres and four silver medals, losing the gold in three events to long term rival David Weir. This rivalry continued into the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London, where Hug won two silvers, in the 800m and the marathon. In the 2013 World Championships Hug dominated the field, winning five golds and a silver. During the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio, Hug was one of the most consistent competitors in the T54 class, winning two golds, in the 800 m and marathon, and two silvers medals, in the 1500m and 500m.\n\nAs well as numerous World and European track medals, Hug is also a world class marathon athlete, winning the men's elite wheelchair event at the Berlin, (2011, 2012), New York City (2013, 2016, 2017), London (2014, 2016), Chicago (2016), and Boston Marathons (2015, 2016, 2017, 2018).\n\nHug was born in the municipality of Pfyn in Switzerland in 1986. Born with spina bifida, Hug grew up on a farm, the youngest of four brothers. As a young child, he met Swiss wheelchair racer, and Hug's sporting idol, Franz Nietlispach, beginning Hug's desire to take up athletics. The ten-year-old Hug was introduced to racing when a sports teacher brought in an old racing wheelchair. This led to Hug competing in his first wheelchair race that year, the 3 km youth race which was part of the Schenkon Marathon. Winning this event inspired him to take up wheelchair athletics and he joined the Swiss Paraplegic Centre in Nottwil where he teamed up with trainer Paul Odermatt.\n\nThe following years saw Hug develop from a junior athlete into an elite racer and he began competing in both Switzerland and abroad. In 2001 he made the athletics team for Wheelchair Sport Switzerland (\"Rollstuhlsport Schweiz\"), and the same year he was accepted into the sports school at Kreuzlingen. Hug described the fact that he was the only wheelchair athlete at the school as being \"immensely important for my personal development.\" In 2002 Hug accepted a place at the Schule fur Beruf und Weiterbildung (School for Employment and Further Education) in Romanshorn, believing that an education outside sport would be vital in his later life.\n\nHug competed in his first world class international when he was selected to represent Switzerland at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens despite not being part of the national team setup. He took part in both men's wheelchair relay races the 4 × 100m T53–T54 and 4 × 400m T53–T54, although Switzerland failed to progress through to the finals in either events. As an individual he competed in four races, reaching the finals in each. He failed to medal in the 400m and 5000m but finishing third in both the 800m (1:32.66) and 1500m (3:05.48) where he won his two bronze medals. On returning from the Games he was named Newcomer of the Year 2004 by Credit Suisse Sports Award and the following year he graduated to the Swiss national team.\n\nIn 2006 Hug competed for Switzerland at the IPC Athletics World Championships in Assen in the Netherlands. There he took his first major international gold medal when he won the men's 10,000m in the T54 (23:06.71). He collected a further three medals at the games, silvers in the 400m (48.97), 800m (1:39.10) and 5,000m (11:20.68). In the 400m he lost the gold to British racer David Weir, beginning a rivalry between the two athletes that would define many of their races on the track and in marathons over the following years.\n\nIn 2008 Hug travelled to Beijing with the Swiss team to compete in the Summer Paralympics. There he competed in four tracks events: the 400m, 800m, 1,500m and 5,000m; and the marathon. By his own admission the games were a disappointment, as he failed to record a single podium finish, crashing out in both the 1,500m and the marathon. His fortunes changed over the next two years and this was highlighted by his results in the 2010 season. Between the 24 and 27 June 2010 Hug competed at a race meet in Switzerland. There he set new world records in four events in the T54 category: the 800m (1:31.12), 1,500m (2:54.51), 5,000m (9:53.05) and 10,000m (19:50.04).\n\nThe next major competition for Hug was the 2011 IPC Athletics World Championship held in Christchurch, New Zealand. Despite going into the Championship as the new world champion, David Weir, whose records Hug had broken in 2010, was also hitting form as he eyed the Paralympic finals in his home capital of London in 2012. Hug ambitiously entered all eight events available to him. He was disqualified from his less favoured sprint events, the 100m and 200m, but in the mid distance 400m, he took the silver, finishing second to China's Liu Chengming. In the 800m, 1,500m and 5,000m Hug faced Weir in the finals, and was unable to beat his British rival, taking silver behind Weir in all three events. Hug was still able to leave the Championship with a gold when he took the 10,000m, but failed to complete the marathon. It was during these championships that Hug gained the nickname 'The Silver Bullet', given to him in reference to his trademark silver helmet that he wears when racing.\n\n2011 also saw Hug win his first major city marathon event when he came first in the 2011 Berlin Marathon.\n\nThe 2011 World Championships set the scene for the build-up to the 2012 Summer Paralympics, held in London. Hug entered five events, reaching the finals in all of them. In the 400m he qualified in second place in his heat, but finished fifth in the final. In the 800m he came through his heat in second place to David Weir, and the result was repeated in the final, Hug taking silver to Weir's gold. In both the 1,500m and 5,000m he finished just outside the medals in fourth place. In the marathon, the final race of the Athletics program of the Paralympics, only a second separated Weir in gold, Hug in silver and Australia's Kurt Fearnley in bronze. Hug completed 2012 by retaining his marathon crown in German by winning the 2012 Berlin Marathon.\n\nWeir's decision not to compete at the 2013 IPC Athletics World Championships in Lyon, opened up the field. Hug took full opportunity of the situation and dominated the T54 track events. He entered six events winning gold in five of them: 400 metres, 1,500 metres, 5,000 metres, 10,000 metres and Marathon. The only person to best him at the Championship was Kim Gyu-Dae of South Korea who pushed Hug into silver medal position in the 800 metres. In November 2013 Hug entered his fourth New York Marathon, and in a close race edged out South Africa's Ernst Van Dyk to take the title.\n\nOn 13 April 2014, a week after winning the Paris Marathon, Hug entered the London Marathon, beating his long-time rival Weir into second place to take the men's wheelchair title. This was Hug's first London Marathon win after finishing second in 2010, 2012 and 2013.\n\nAfter finishing fourth in the last two attempts, on 20 April 2015 Hug finished first in the Boston Marathon, beating ten-times winner Ernst Van Dyk into second place by over six minutes. Later that year Hug competed in the 2015 IPC Athletics World Championships in Doha, with commentators believing the major medals would be contested between Hug and Weir. Instead the longer events were dominated by Thailand's Rawat Tana, who took gold in both the 1500m and 5000m. Hug finished fifth in the 1500m but managed to win a silver in the 5000m. Hug also entered the 800m, where he finished third to collect his second medal of the games. In 2016 Hug won two elite city marathon events in the space of a week. On 18 April Hug won his second Boston Marathon with a time of 1:24.01, and followed this six days later with his second London Marathon victory.\n\nIn 2016 Hug qualified for his fourth consecutive Paralympics, travelling to Rio de Janeiro where he took part in four events at the 2016 Summer Paralympics. He won medals in all four events, two silvers in the 1500m and 5000m races and his first Paralympic gold medals, one in the 800m and then on the last day he also won the men's T54 marathon. After Rio, Hug continued to compete on the World Marathon circuit, and in October he won his first Chicago Marathon, beating Kurt Fearnley in a photo finish. In November, in a repeat of a photo finish against Kurt Fearnley, he won his second New York City Marathon.\n"}
{"id": "40910655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40910655", "title": "Margaret Rock", "text": "Margaret Rock\n\nMargaret Rock (7 July 1903 – 26 August 1983) was one of the few women mathematicians who worked in Bletchley Park during World War II. With her math skills and education, Rock was able to decode the Enigma Machine against the German Army. Her work during the war was classified by the Official Secrets Act 1939, so much of her work was not revealed during her lifetime.\n\nRock was born and raised in Hammersmith, London to parents of Frank Ernest Rock and Alice Margaret Simmonds. Rock attended Edmonton elementary and North Middlesex School. Rock's father served in the Royal Navy as a surgeon between 1894 and 1896 while her mother took care of her and her brother. Frank Rock would send letters to his children frequently, to stay in communication in 1914, just before World War I.\n\nIn 1917, Margaret, her mother and brother settled in Portsmouth, London, after moving frequently for three years. Rock attended Portsmouth High School, an all female private boarding school. Her father died when HMS Laurentic sank off the coast of Ireland having struck two mines laid by a German U-boat. Rock was encouraged by the letters her late father wrote to her, telling her to keep up with her studies and to be successful in the future. Her brother, John Frank Rock, became a Lieutenant in the Royal Engineers.\n\nRock passed the London General School Exam in June 1919. During high school, she received honours in the classes of French, mathematics, and music. Rock went to Bedford College, University of London, to earn a Bachelors of Arts Degree in 1921.\n\nAfter college, Rock was employed as a statistician by the National Association of Manufacturers (The Federation of British Industry). Rock predicted the economic market and how different businesses and companies would respond to the market. In her free time, Margaret and her brother would travel to different countries such as Italy, France, Switzerland, and Sri Lanka.\n\nIn the beginning of World War II, Rock and her mother evacuated London to Cranleigh, Surrey. Margaret quit her old job, wanting a career in a time when the woman's role was primarily to be the wife and stay-at-home mother. She was then recruited for a new job at Bletchley Park on 15 April 1940. She worked for Admiral Sir Hugh Sinclair, who was the Head of Government Code and Cypher School and Secret Intelligence Service. She trained and worked alongside mathematicians and professors to break and decode enemy messages with the Enigma machine. Margaret went to work for Alfred Dilwyn Knox, where Margaret worked closely with Mavis Lever on the same projects. While working for Dilwyn Knox she became the most senior cryptographer. Knox employed women, because he believed they had great skill with cryptography work. Margaret Rock on August 1940, was considered by Dilwyn Knox to be the 4th or 5th best in the whole Enigma staff. She specialized in German and Russian code breaking. Code breaking was used to verify which individuals in the war were double agents that would skew information and present them as truth.\n\nGerman Military thought that the Enigma cipher was unbreakable because of the difficult codes it would produce every day. The Enigma Machine was not coding fast enough, thus a new device was needed to win the war. By her hard work, Rock was ranked one of the better workers on the Enigma Machine project, and was promoted to seniority and a higher salary. On 8 December 1941, the Abwehr Enigma (the German Enigma Machine) message was decoded and read by the team in Bletchley Park by the use of a manuel technique called \"rodding\" that was identified by Knox. This feat gave an advantage to Britain to plan the D-Day attack.\n\nRock worked for governmental jobs, such as the Government Communications Headquarters until she retired in 1963. Because of the Official Secrets Act 1939, Rock never spoke about her work to anyone. Even late in her life and Bletchley Park and codebreaking was circulating the news, she would not comment about her contribution to the Colossus. On 26 August 1983 she died in Ronkswood Hospital, Worcester.\n"}
{"id": "9983367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9983367", "title": "Moe Keale", "text": "Moe Keale\n\nWilfred Nalani \"Moe\" Keale (December 3, 1939 - April 15, 2002) was a musician of Hawaiian music, a ukulele virtuoso, and an American actor. He was the uncle and major musical influence of Israel Kamakawiwoʻole.\n\nHe was one of the few persons born in the 20th century to have pure Hawaiian ancestry. His father was a kahuna. Moe Keale was born on the island of Niihau, but raised on Oahu. He was shaped by the ancestral customs and values of his birthplace, learning to play the ukulele at the age of four. Conversations in his Niihau family home were in Hawaiian, and songs were passed from generation to generation. He would later fondly recall his summers on Niihau, where stress was not part of the lifestyle. \"I figured that heaven must be something like Niihau,\" he said.\n\nA native of Hawaii, he primarily had roles in movies and TV series that took place in the islands, including many appearances on \"Hawaii Five-O\", where he had a recurring part as Truck Kealoha in the show's final season. He also appeared as Officer O'Shaughnessy in the Hawaiian-based NBC sitcom, \"The Brian Keith Show\".\n\nHe was a beachboy, musician and singer, part-time electrician, and radio deejay, as well as an actor. His first paid musical gig with his group the Four K's was at the Waikiki Tavern circa 1958, followed by the Tropical Club in Kailua-Kona. In 1964, he worked with the Puka Puka Otea Tahitian Show at Queen's Surf. He was recruited for a New York city gig when he was seen at a beach doing high dives off a simulated waterfall. His most noted role as Truck on \"Hawaii Five-O\" came as a result of his working as an electrician on the set.\n\nKeale and Eddie Kamae struck up a musical partnership that led to Moe becoming part of the Sons of Hawaii in 1969, and he remained with the group until 1977. He then went on to make three solo albums \"South Sea Island Magic\", \"Aloha Is A Part of Me, A Part of You\", and \"Imagine\". He was a deejay on KCCN in the 1980s.\n\nFrom 1984 onward, he and his band played two evenings a week poolside at the Sheraton Waikiki. It was while performing at the Sheraton that he was struck by the fatal heart attack that ended his life on April 15, 2002.\n\nAt the time of his death, he was a hands-on co-owner of the Lomi Shop’s Keiki Wa‘a at the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Resort and Spa at Windward Mall. The Lomi Shop promoted the art of healing through lomilomi massage.\n\nMoe had a near-fatal heart attack in April 2001 and received a pacemaker implant. He used his extension on life to raise $260,000 for the American Heart Association, in order to have portable defibrillators strategically positioned throughout the state of Hawaii.\n\nIn 2003, the Hawai'i Academy of Recording Arts instituted the Moe Keale \"Aloha Is\" Award in its Na Hoku Hanohano Awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413435", "title": "Narragansett people", "text": "Narragansett people\n\nThe Narragansett people are an Algonquian American Indian tribe from Rhode Island. The tribe was nearly landless for most of the 20th century, but it worked to gain federal recognition and attained it in 1983. It is officially the Narragansett Indian Tribe of Rhode Island and is made up of descendants of tribal members who were identified in an 1880 treaty with the state. \n\nThe tribe acquired land in 1991 in their lawsuit \"Carcieri v. Salazar\", and they petitioned the Department of the Interior to take the land into trust on their behalf. This would have made the newly acquired land to be officially recognized as part of the Narragansett Indian reservation, taking it out from under Rhode Island's legal authority. In 2009, the United States Supreme Court ruled against the request, declaring that tribes which had achieved federal recognition since the 1934 Indian Reorganization Act did not have standing to have newly acquired lands taken into federal trust and removed from state control.\n\nThe Narragansett tribe was recognized by the federal government in 1983 and controls the Narragansett Indian Reservation, of trust lands in Charlestown, Rhode Island. A small portion of the tribe resides on or near the reservation, according to the 2000 U.S. Census. Additionally, they own several hundred acres in Westerly.\n\nIn 1991, the Narragansetts purchased in Charlestown for development of elderly housing. In 1998, they requested that the Department of the Interior take the property into trust on behalf of the tribe, to remove it from state and local control. The case went to the United States Supreme Court, as the state challenged the removal of new lands from state oversight by a tribe recognized by the US after the 1934 Indian Reorganization Act. Rhode Island was joined in its appeal by 21 other states.\n\nIn 2009, the US Supreme Court ruled that the Department of the Interior could not take land into trust, removing it from state control, if a tribe had achieved federal recognition after the 1934 Indian Reorganization Act, and if the land in question was acquired after that federal recognition. Their determination was based on wording in the act which defines \"Indian\" as \"all persons of Indian descent who are members of any recognized tribe now under federal jurisdiction.\"\n\nThe tribe is led by an elected tribal council, a chief \"sachem,\" a medicine man, and a Christian leader. The entire tribal population must approve major decisions. The administration in 2018 was:\n\n\nRoger Williams spent much time learning and studying the Narragansett language, and he wrote a definitive study on it in 1643 entitled \"A Key Into the Language of America\". He traced the source of the word \"Narragansett\" to a geographical location:\n\nBeing inquisitive of what root the title or denomination Nahigonset should come I heard that Nahigonsset was so named from a little island, between Puttaquomscut and Mishquomacuk on the sea and fresh water side. I went on purpose to see it, and about the place called Sugar Loaf Hill I saw it and was within a pole of it, but could not learn why it was called Nahigonset.\n\nBerkeley anthropologist William Simmons explains the name as follows:\n\nThe name \"Narragansett\", like the names of most tribes in this region, referred to both a place and the people who lived there. Roger Williams, the first English settler of Providence, wrote that the name came from that of a small island, which he did not locate precisely but which may have been in what is now Point Judith Pond. He went to the island but could not learn why the Indians called it Narragansett.\n\nSome Narragansetts believe that it means \"people of the little points and bays\". Pritzker's \"Native American Encyclopedia\" translates the name as people \"of the Small Point\". Linguist James Hammond Trumbull explains that \"naiag\" or \"naiyag\" means a corner or angle in the Algonquian languages, so that \"nai\" is found in the names of many points of land on the sea coast and rivers of New England, such as Nayatt Point in Barrington, RI, and Noyack on Long Island. The word \"na-ig-an-set\", according to Trumbull, signifies \"the territory about the point\", and \"na-ig-an-eog\" means \"the people of the point\". Colonial writers spelled it in a variety of ways, such as Nanohigganset, Nahigonset, and Nahicans. The present spelling \"Narragansett\" was first used by Massachussetts governor John Winthrop in his \"History of New England\" (1646); the spelling \"Nanohigganset\" was used by assistant governor Edward Winslow, while Rhode Island preacher Samuel Gorton preferred \"Nanhyganset\"; a host of other spellings were used by Roger Williams, including Nanhiggonsick, Nanhigonset, Nanihiggonsicks, Nanhiggonsicks, Narriganset, Narrogonset, and Nahigonsicks.\n\nArchaeologists discovered the remains of an Indian village on the northern edge of Point Judith Pond, near to the place which Roger Williams had indicated, now known as the Salt Pond Archaeological Site (site RI 110). Excavations revealed the remains of a coastal village from the Late Woodland period, inhabited between about 1100 and 1300 A.D. Human burials were found, as well as evidence of houses and other structures, cooking and food storage places, and a range of artifacts. The site turned out to be quite important achaeologically because no other American Indian coastal village has ever been found in the Northeastern United States.\n\nTraditionally, the tribe spoke the Narragansett language, a member of the Algonquian languages family. The Narragansetts spoke a \"Y-dialect\", similar enough to the \"N-dialects\" of the Massachusett and Wampanoag to be mutually intelligible. Other Y-dialects include the Shinnecock and Pequot languages spoken historically by tribes on Long Island and in Connecticut, respectively.\n\nThe Narragansett language became almost entirely extinct during the 20th century. The tribe has begun language revival efforts, based on early 20th century books and manuscripts, and new teaching programs. \n\nIn the 17th century, Roger Williams learned the tribe's language. He documented it in his 1643 work \"A Key Into the Language of America\". In that book Williams gave the tribe's name as \"Nanhigganeuck\" though later he used the spelling \"Nahigonset\".\n\nAmerican English has absorbed a number of loan words from Narragansett and other closely related languages, such as Wampanoag and Massachusett. Such words include \"quahog\", \"moose\", \"papoose\", \"powwow\", \"squash\", and \"succotash\".\n\nThe Narragansetts were one of the leading tribes of New England, controlling the west of Narragansett Bay in Rhode Island and portions of Connecticut and eastern Massachusetts, from the Providence River on the northeast to the Pawcatuck River on the southwest. The first European contact was in 1524 when explorer Giovanni de Verrazzano visited Narragansett Bay.\n\nBetween 1616 and 1619, infectious diseases killed thousands of Algonquians in coastal areas south of Rhode Island. The Narragansetts were the most powerful tribe in the southern area of the region when the English colonists arrived in 1620, and they had not been affected by the epidemics. Chief Massasoit of the Wampanoags allied with the colonists at Plymouth Colony as a way to protect the Wampanoags from Narragansett attacks. In the fall of 1621, the Narragansetts sent a sheaf of arrows wrapped in a snakeskin to Plymouth Colony as a threatening challenge, but Plymouth governor William Bradford sent the snakeskin back filled with gunpowder and bullets. The Narragansetts understood the message and did not attack them.\n\nEuropean settlement in the Narragansett territory did not begin until 1635; in 1636, Roger Williams acquired land from Narragansett sachems Canonicus and Miantonomi and established Providence Plantations.\n\nDuring the Pequot War of 1637, the Narragansetts allied with the New England colonists. However, the brutality of the colonists in the Mystic massacre shocked the Narragansetts, who returned home in disgust. After the Pequots were defeated, the colonists gave captives to their allies the Narragansetts and the Mohegans. \n\nThe Narrangansetts later had conflict with the Mohegans over control of the conquered Pequot land. In 1643, Miantonomi led the Narragansetts in an invasion of eastern Connecticut where they planned to subdue the Mohegans and their leader Uncas. Miantonomi had an estimated 1,000 men under his command. The Narragansett forces fell apart, and Miantonomi was captured and executed by Uncas' brother. The following year, Narragansett war leader Pessicus renewed the war with the Mohegans, and the number of Narragansett allies grew.\n\nThe Mohegans were on the verge of defeat when the colonists came and saved them, sending troops to defend the Mohegan fort at Shantok. The colonists then threatened to invade Narragansett territory, so Canonicus and his son Mixanno signed a peace treaty. The peace lasted for the next 30 years.\n\nChristian missionaries began to convert tribal members, and many Indians feared that they would lose their traditions by assimilating into colonial culture. The colonial push for religious conversion collided with Indian resistance. In 1675, John Sassamon, a converted \"Praying Indian\", was found bludgeoned to death in a pond. The facts about Sassamon's death were never settled, but historians accept that the Wampanoag sachem Metacomet - to whom the English settlers gave the baptismal name \"Philip\" - may have ordered the execution of Sassamon because of his cooperation with colonial authorities. Three Wampanoag men were arrested, convicted, and hanged for Sassamon's death.\n\nMetacomet subsequently declared war on the colonists in what the colonists called King Philip's War. Metacomet escaped an attempt to trap him in the Plymouth Colony, and the uprising spread across Massachusetts as other bands joined the fight, such as the Nipmuc. The Indians wanted to expel the colonists from New England. They waged successful attacks on settlements in Massachusetts and Connecticut, but Rhode Island was spared at the beginning, as the Narragansetts remained officially neutral.\n\nHowever, the leaders of the United Colonies (Massachusetts, Plymouth, and Connecticut) accused the Narragansetts of harboring Wampanoag refugees. They made a preemptive attack on the Narragansett palisade fortress on December 19, 1675 in a battle that became known as the Great Swamp Fight. Hundreds of Narragansett non-combatants, including men, women, and children, died in the attack and burning of the fort, but nearly all of the warriors escaped. In January 1676, colonist Joshua Tefft was hanged, drawn, and quartered by colonial forces at Smith's Castle in Wickford, Rhode Island, for having fought on the side of the Narragansetts during the Great Swamp Fight.\n\nThe Indians retaliated for the massacre in a widespread spring offensive beginning in February 1676 in which they destroyed all Colonial settlements on the western side of Narragansett Bay. The settlement of Providence Plantations was burned on March 27, 1676, destroying Roger Williams's house, among others. Other Indian groups destroyed many towns throughout New England, and even raided the suburbs of Boston. However, disease, starvation, battle losses, and the lack of gunpowder caused the Indian effort to collapse by the end of March.\n\nTroops from Connecticut composed of the colonists and Mohegan allies swept into Rhode Island and killed substantial numbers of the now-weakened Narragansetts. A force of Mohegans and Connecticut militia captured Narragansett sachem Canonchet a few days after the destruction of Providence Plantations, while a force of Plymouth militia and Wampanoags hunted down Metacomet. He was shot and killed, ending the war in southern New England, although it dragged on for another year in Maine.\n\nAfter the war, the English sold some surviving Narragansetts into slavery and shipped them to the Caribbean; others became indentured servants in Rhode Island. The surviving Narragansetts merged with local tribes, particularly the Eastern Niantics. During colonial and later times, tribe members intermarried with colonists and Africans. Their spouses and children were taken into the tribe, enabling them to keep a tribal and cultural identity.\n\nNinigret, the chief sachem of the Narragansetts during King Philip's war, died soon after the war. He left four children by two wives. His eldest child, a daughter, succeeded him, and upon her death her half-brother Ninigret succeeded her. He left a will dated 1716-17, and died about 1722. His sons Charles Augustus and George succeeded him as sachems. George's son Thomas, commonly known as King Tom, succeeded in 1746. While King Tom was sachem, much of the Narragansett land was sold, and a considerable part of the tribe emigrated to the State of New York, joining other Indians there who belonged to the same Algonquin language group.\n\nNevertheless, in the 1740s during the First Great Awakening, colonists founded the Narragansett Indian Church to convert Indians to Christianity. In the ensuing years, the tribe retained control and ownership of the church and its surrounding , the only land that it could keep. This continuous ownership was critical evidence of tribal continuity when the tribe applied for federal recognition in 1983.\n\nIn the 19th century, the tribe resisted repeated state efforts to declare that it was no longer an Indian tribe because its members were multiracial in ancestry. They contended that they absorbed other ethnicities into their tribe and continued to identify culturally as Narragansetts.\n\nThe tribal leaders resisted increasing legislative pressure after the American Civil War to \"take up citizenship\" in the United States, which would have required them to give up their treaty privileges and Indian nation status. The Narragansetts had a vision of themselves as \"a nation rather than a race\", and they insisted on their rights to Indian national status and its privileges by treaty. \n\nWhile testifying about this issue in a meeting with a committe of the state legislature in 1876, a Narragansett delegation said that their people saw injustices under existing US citizenship. They noted Jim Crow laws that limited the rights of blacks despite their citizenship under constitutional amendments. They also resisted suggestions that multiracial members of the tribe could not qualify as full members of the tribe. The Narragansetts had a tradition of bringing other people into their tribe by marriage and having them assimilate as culturally Narragansett, especially as their children grew up in the tribe. According to a record of their statement, they said:\n\nWe are not negroes, we are the heirs of Ninagrit, and of the great chiefs and warriors of the Narragansetts. Because, when your ancestors stole the negro from Africa and brought him amongst us and made a slave of him, we extended him the hand of friendship, and permitted his blood to be mingled with ours, are we to be called negroes? And to be told that we may be made negro citizens? We claim that while one drop of Indian blood remains in our veins, we are entitled to the rights and privileges guaranteed by your ancestors to ours by solemn treaty, which without a breach of faith you cannot violate.\n\nFrom 1880-84, the state persisted in its efforts at \"detribalization\". The tribe had agreed to negotiations for sale of its land, but it quickly regretted the decision and worked to regain the land. In 1880, the state recognized 324 Narragansett tribal members as claimants to the land during negotiations. The state put tribal lands up for public sale in the 19th century, but the tribe did not disperse and its members continued to practice its culture.\n\nThe Naragansetts lost control of much of their tribal lands during the state's late 19th century detribalization, but they kept a group identity. The tribe incorporated in 1900 and built their longhouse in 1940 as a traditional place for gatherings and ceremonies.\n\nIn the late 20th century, they took action to have more control over their future. They regained of their land in 1978, and gained federal recognition as a tribe in 1983. According to tribal rolls, there are approximately 2,400 members of the Narragansett Tribe today. Like most Americans, they have mixed ancestry, with descent from the Narragansetts and other tribes of the New England area, as well as Europeans and Africans.\n\nA 2006 survey conducted in preparation for development of a new residential subdivision revealed what archaeologists consider the remains of a Narragansett Indian village dating from 1100 to 1300. It is located at the top of Point Judith Pond in Narragansett, Rhode Island. This area had been identified in a 1980s survey as historically sensitive, and the state had a conflict with the developer when more remains were found. The state intervened in order to prevent development and to buy the 25-acre site for preservation; it was part of 67 acres planned for development by the new owner.\n\nFurther archaeological excavation on the site quickly revealed that it was one of two villages on the Atlantic Coast to be found in such complete condition. The other pre-Columbian village (\"Otan\" in Narragansett Algonquin) is in Virginia. It has a high concentration of permanent structures.\n\nPreliminary surveys of the Narragansett tract, known as RI 110, have revealed a village with perhaps as many 22 structures, as well as three known human burial sites. There is also evidence of granaries, ceremonial areas and storage pits that may shed new light on the importance of maize agriculture to woodland tribes. \n\nHistorians and archeologists knew that maize was cultivated by Algonquin tribes, but there has never been physical evidence before the discovery of this site. The tribe's method of grinding the kernels into a powder was not conducive to preservation. In the first week of excavation, 78 kernels of corn were found at this site, the first time that cultivation of maize could be confirmed this far north on the Atlantic Coast. \n\nThe current members of the Narragansett tribe have contributed through oral history to accounts about the ancient people who inhabited this site. They were members of the Turtle Clan, and the settlement was a conduit for trade in medicines. They used the surrounding pond and its many islands for hunting camps, resource collection, fishing, shellfish, burial sites, and herbal collections for medicine and ceremony. \n\nProvidence founder Roger Williams was brought to the top of Sugarloaf Hill in nearby Wakefield when treating with the Narragansett tribe. They pointed toward this large settlement and told him that it was called \"Nanihigonset.\" This site is now believed to be the center of the Narragansett geography, where they coalesced as a tribe and began to extend their dominion over the neighboring tribes at different points in history.\n\nIn January 1975, the Narragansett Tribe filed suit in federal court to regain of land in southern Rhode Island which they claimed the state had illegally taken from them in 1880. The 1880 Act authorizing the state to negotiate with the tribe listed 324 Narragansetts approved by the Supreme Court as claimants to the land.\n\nIn 1978, the Narragansett Tribe signed a Joint Memorandum of Understanding (JMOU) with the state of Rhode Island, Town of Charlestown, and private property owners in settlement of their land claim. The state transferred a total of to a corporation formed to hold the land in trust for descendants of the 1880 Narragansett Roll. In exchange, the tribe agreed that the laws of Rhode Island would be in effect on those lands, except for hunting and fishing. The Narragansetts had not yet been federally recognized as a tribe.\n\nThe tribe prepared extensive documentation of its genealogy and proof of continuity as descendants of the 324 tribal members of treaty status. In 1979 the tribe applied for federal recognition, which it finally regained in 1983 as the Narragansett Indian Tribe of Rhode Island (the official name used by the Bureau of Indian Affairs).\n\nThe state and tribe have disagreed on certain rights on the reservation. On July 14, 2003, Rhode Island state police raided a tribe-run smoke shop on the Charlestown reservation, the culmination of a dispute over the tribe's failure to pay state taxes on its sale of cigarettes. In 2005, the U.S. First Circuit Court of Appeals declared the police action a violation of the tribe's sovereignty. In 2006, an \"en banc\" decision of the First Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the prior decision, stating that the raid did not violate the tribe's sovereign immunity because of the 1978 Joint Memorandum of Agreement settling the land issues, in which the tribe agreed that state law would be observed on its land.\n\nIn a separate federal civil rights lawsuit, the tribe charged the police with the use of excessive force during the 2003 raid on the smoke shop. One Narragansett man suffered a broken leg in the confrontation. The case was being retried in the summer of 2008. Competing police experts testified on each side of the case.\n\nThe Narragansett Tribe is negotiating with the General Assembly for approval to build a casino in Rhode Island with their partner, currently Harrah's Entertainment. The Rhode Island Constitution declares to be illegal all non-state-run lotteries or gambling. A proposed constitutional amendment to allow the tribe to build the casino was voted down by state residents in November 2006.\n\nThe tribe has plans to upgrade the Longhouse that it constructed along RI Route 2 (South County Trail) to serve as a place of American Indian cuisine and cultural meeting house. These plans have been in the works for more than 15 years. The Longhouse was built in 1940 and has fallen into disrepair. Upgrades are also being planned for the Narragansett tribal medical, technological, and artistic systems.\n\nThe Narragansetts have undertaken efforts to review tribal rolls and reassess applications for membership, like numerous other tribes in the 21st century. They currently require tribal members to show direct descent from one or more of the 324 members listed on the 1880-84 Roll, which was established when Rhode Island negotiated land sales.\n\nThe current population numbers about 2,400 and the tribe has closed the rolls. They have dropped some people from the rolls and denied new applications for membership. Scholars and activists see this as a national trend among tribes, prompted by a variety of factors, including internal family rivalries and the issue of significant new revenues from Indian casinos.\n\nThe US Supreme Court agreed to hear \"Carcieri v. Salazar\" (2009) in the fall of 2008, a case determining American Indian land rights. The Court ruled in favor of Rhode Island in February 2009. The suit was brought by the state of Rhode Island against the Department of the Interior (DOI) over its authority to take land into trust on behalf of certain American Indians. \n\nThe authority was part of the 1934 Indian Reorganization Act, but the state argued that the process could not hold for tribes that achieved federal recognition after 1934. The US Supreme Court upheld the state based on language in the act. At issue is of land in Charlestown which the Narragansetts purchased in 1991. The Narragansetts requested the DOI to take it into trust on their behalf in order to remove it from state and local control, after trying to develop it for elderly housing under state regulations in 1998.\n\nThe tribe hosts their annual meeting powwow on the second weekend of August on their reservation in Charlestown, Rhode Island. It is a gathering of thanksgiving and honor to the Narragansett people and is the oldest recorded powwow in North America, dating back to 1675's colonial documentation of the gathering (the powwow had been held long before European contact).\n\nIn August 2017, the tribe held the 342nd powwow with events including the traditional grand entry, a procession of military veterans, dancers, and honored tribal representatives, and the ceremonial lighting of a sacred fire. There was also a church service, food vendors, and arts and crafts.\n\nThe following are listed in alphabetical order by surname.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2444667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444667", "title": "Nazi hunter", "text": "Nazi hunter\n\nA Nazi hunter is a private individual who tracks down and gathers information on alleged former Nazis, SS members, and Nazi collaborators who were involved in the Holocaust, typically for use at trial on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity. Prominent Nazi hunters include Simon Wiesenthal, Tuviah Friedman, Serge and Beate Klarsfeld, Ian Sayer, Yaron Svoray, Elliot Welles, and Efraim Zuroff.\n\nWith the onset of the Cold War following World War II, both the Western Allies and the USSR sought out former Nazi scientists and operatives for programs such as Operation Paperclip. Cooperative former Nazis, such as Wernher von Braun and Reinhard Gehlen, were occasionally given state protection in return for valuable information or services. At the time, Gehlen had been chief of the German \"Bundesnachrichtendienst\" (federal intelligence agency), founder of the Gehlen Org, \"a true life version of ODESSA\" network, which helped exfiltrate Nazis from Europe. Other Nazis used ratlines to escape post-war Europe to places such as South America.\n\nIn response, Nazi hunters sought out fugitives on their own or formed groups, such as the Simon Wiesenthal Center. Methods used by Nazi hunters include offering rewards for information, reviewing immigration and military records, and launching civil lawsuits.\n\nIn later decades, Nazi hunters found greater cooperation with Western and South American governments and the state of Israel. By the end of the 20th century, pursuit of former Nazis declined, because most of the generation active in Nazi leadership had died.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center publishes an annual report on Nazi war criminals. Some notable targets of Nazi hunters have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1516352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516352", "title": "Neale Donald Walsch", "text": "Neale Donald Walsch\n\nNeale Donald Walsch (born September 10, 1943) is an American author of the series \"Conversations with God\". He is also an actor, screenwriter, and speaker.\n\nWalsch was brought up as a Roman Catholic by a family who encouraged his quest for spiritual truth. He informally studied comparative theology for many years. He says his books are not channelled, but rather that they are inspired by God and that they can help a person relate to God from a modern perspective. Walsch's vision is an expansion and unification of all present theologies to render them more relevant to our present day and time. He created Humanity's Team as a spiritual movement whose purpose is to communicate and implement his New Spirituality beliefs, particularly that we are all one with God and one with life, in a shared global state of being. This state can be achieved, Walsch argues, by the act of helping other people: \"The fastest way to apply anything in your life is to help others to apply it... The fastest way to use any wisdom that resides in your soul is to help someone else... Because we are all one\". Walsch has nine children. He has a home in southern Oregon where he lives with his wife, Em Claire, who is a working poet.\n\nBefore writing the \"Conversations With God\" series, Walsch worked variously as a radio station program director, newspaper managing editor, and in marketing and public relations. In the early 1990s he suffered a series of crushing blows—a fire that destroyed all of his belongings, the break-up of his marriage, and a car accident that left him with a broken neck. Once recovered, but alone and unemployed, he was forced to live in a tent in Jackson Hot Springs, just outside Ashland, Oregon, collecting and recycling aluminium cans in order to eat. At the time, he thought his life had come to an end. Despondent, he began his writings after working his way out of homelessness and following a stint as a radio talk show host.\n\nHis first book, \"Conversations with God,\" was published in 1995 and became an international bestseller. It remained on the \"New York Times\" Bestseller List for 135 weeks. Six of his other books have made the \"Times\" list in the years since. He has published 28 books and his works have been translated into 37 languages.\n\nIn 2003, the film \"Indigo\", written by Walsch and James Twyman and directed by Stephen Simon was released. It chronicled the fictional story of the redemption of a grandfather, played by Walsch, through his granddaughter, who is an indigo child.\n\n\"Conversations With God: The Movie\" opened in U.S. theaters in 2006 on October 27 and in Canada on November 10. The film was released on DVD in February 2007. Clips of the film can be found on YouTube.\n\nOther documentaries and TV appearances include:\n\n\nNeale Donald Walsch can also be found as a prominent contributor at TheGlobalConversation.com as well as on YouTube at YouTube.com/NealeDonaldWalsch.\n\nWalsch was accused of plagiarism for a six-paragraph entry in one of the daily postings on his blog during 2008, this one during the Christmas season, when he published an item titled \"Upside down, or right side up?\" on Beliefnet.com. Walsch's entry purported to tell the tale of a miraculous appearance of the words \"Christ Was Love\" during the rehearsal of his son's school Christmas pageant; but his article was almost identical to an article published 10 years previously by Candy Chand in the spiritual magazine \"Clarity\" and spread over the internet in places such as the Heartwarmers website, down to the name of the son mentioned in both articles, Nicholas – as both authors have a son named Nicholas. Walsch publicly apologized, saying that he must have erroneously internalized the story as his own over the years, a claim the original author said she does not believe. The article was subsequently pulled from Beliefnet.com and Walsch voluntarily withdrew from the roster of authors because of his error. Walsch explained that he found the anecdote in old computer files from years earlier, saw his son's name in the copy, and was fully convinced that the history had really happened to him and that he had just forgotten it, but \"remembered\" when he saw the anecdote in his file. He cited it as a classic case of false memory and said that he had been repeating the anecdote as his own in many speeches over the years, adding that he was \"chagrined and astonished that my mind could play such a trick on me\".\n\nPlease see the Bibliography at Conversations with God.\n\nWalsch has written a number of other books which he describes as \"in the CwG cosmology\", none of which are dialogues with God, but provide the reader with Walsch's insights:\n\n\nIn addition to the books of the \"CwG\" series, there are also a number of guidebooks, meditation books, and other books adapted from the \"CwG\" series and referring to the \"CwG\" message. The following books do not have any new information from the voice of \"God\", but were written by Neale Donald Walsch, to assist with understanding and applying the messages. Starting in 2008, \"The School of the New Spirituality, Inc.\" (SNS), founded by Walsch, starting publishing new guidebooks for the series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "273412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273412", "title": "Nicholas Rémy", "text": "Nicholas Rémy\n\nNicholas Rémy, Latin Remigius (1530–1616) was a French magistrate who became famous as a hunter of witches comparable to Jean Bodin and De Lancre.\n\nAfter studying law at the University of Toulouse, Remy practised in Paris from 1563 to 1570. In 1570, his uncle retired as Lieutenant General of Vosges and Remy was appointed to the post; in 1575 he was appointed as secretary to Duke Charles III of Lorraine.\n\nRemy wrote a number of poems and several books on history, but is known for his \"Daemonolatreiae libri tres\" (\"Demonolatry\"), published in Lyon in 1595. The book was reprinted several times, translated into German, and eventually replaced the Malleus Maleficarum as the most recognized handbook of witch-hunters in parts of Europe.\n\nAccording to Remy, the Devil could appear before people in the shape of a black cat or man, and liked Black Masses. Demons could also have sexual relationships with women and, in case they did not agree, rape them.\n\nBetween 1591 and 1606, he condemned hundreds of people at the stake for Satanism. This cannot be corroborated against surviving records, but Remy cited over one hundred specific cases in \"Demonolatry\".\n\nHe was of the Catholic faith, and did his work with the blessings of the Church, but was not himself a priest and married at least once (possibly twice), fathering quite a few children. One of them, a favored son, was supposedly killed in a street accident at the beginning of Remy's judicial career after being cursed by an old beggar woman when Remy refused to give her any money. This incident in 1582 was the start of Remy's career as a witch-hunter. He successfully prosecuted the beggar for bewitching his son and had the woman put to death.\n\nFinding witches was very personal business for Remy. An extremely educated man for his day, he utterly believed in what he was doing. He saw every \"witch\" he burned as real, and considered it justice done. Remy personally sentenced 900 people to death between 1581-1591. In 1592, Remy retired and moved to the country to escape the plague. There he compiled notes from his ten-year campaign against witchcraft into the \"Demonolatry\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1770633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1770633", "title": "Paul Brunton", "text": "Paul Brunton\n\nPaul Brunton is the pen name of Raphael Hurst (21 October 1898 – 27 July 1981), a British theosophist and spiritualist. He is best known as one of the early popularizers of Neo-Hindu spiritualism in western esotericism, notably via his bestselling \"A Search in Secret India\" (1934).\n\nBrunton was a proponent of a doctrine of \"Mentalism\", or \"Oriental Mentalism\" to distinguish it from subjective idealism of the western tradition. Brunton expounds his doctrine of Mentalism in \"The Hidden Teachings Beyond Yoga\" (1941) and in \"The Wisdom of the Overself\" (1943).\n\nHurst was born in London in 1898. \nHe served in a tank division during the First World War, and later devoted himself to mysticism and came into contact with Theosophists.\nHe married Karen Augusta Tuttrup in 1921, with whom he had a son, Kenneth Thurston Hurst (b. 1923).\nAfter his wife had an affair with his friend Leonard Gill, the marriage ended in divorce in 1926, but Hurst remained on friendly terms with his ex-wife and with Gill.\nHe was a bookseller and journalist, and wrote under various pseudonyms, including Raphael Meriden and Raphael Delmonte.\nBeing partner of an occult bookshop, The Atlantis Bookshop, in Bloomsbury, Hurst came into contact with both the literary and occult British intelligentsia of the 1920s.\n\nIn 1930, Hurst embarked on a voyage to India, which brought him into contact with Meher Baba, Vishuddhananda Paramahansa, Paramacharya of Kancheepuram and Ramana Maharshi. At the Paramacharya's insistence, he met Bhagavan Ramana Maharshi, which led to a turn of events culminating in revealing Ramana to the western world.\nHurst's first visit to Sri Ramana's ashram took place in 1931. During this visit, Hurst was accompanied by a Buddhist bhikshu, formerly a military officer but meanwhile known as Swami Prajnananda, the founder of the English ashram in Rangoon.\nHurst asked several questions, including \"What is the way to God-realization?\" and Maharshi said: \"Vichara, asking yourself the 'Who am I?' enquiry into the nature of your Self.\"\n\n\"Paul Brunton\" was the pseudonym under which \"A Search in Secret India\" was published in 1934. The book became a bestseller, and Hurst afterwards stuck to publishing under this name.\nBrunton has been credited with introducing Ramana Maharshi to the West through his books \"A Search in Secret India\" and \"The Secret Path\".\n\nOne day—sitting with Ramana Maharshi—Brunton had an experience which Steve Taylor names \"an experience of genuine enlightenment which changed him forever\". Brunton describes it in the following way:\nBrunton was in India during World War II, as a guest of the Maharaja of Mysore, Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV. He dedicated his book \"The Quest of the Overself\" to the Maharaja and when the Maharaja died in 1940, he was present at his funeral.\n\nBrunton was critical of Mahatma Gandhi and the Indian independence movement:\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, Brunton occasionally stayed as a guest, for a few weeks at a time, about six months total, with the parents of controversial American author and former psychoanalyst Jeffrey Masson. In 1956, Brunton decided that a third world war was imminent and the Massons moved to Montevideo, since this location was considered safe. From Uruguay, Masson went with Brunton's encouragement to study Sanskrit at Harvard. Brunton himself did not move to South America, instead spending some time living in New Zealand. In 1993, Masson wrote a critical account of Brunton titled \"My Father's Guru: A Journey Through Spirituality and Disillusion\".\n\nIn the 1950s, Brunton retired from publishing books and devoted himself to writing essays and notes. Upon his death in 1981 in Vevey, Switzerland, it was noted that in the period since the last published book in 1952, he had rendered about 20,000 pages of philosophical writing.\n\nA longtime friend of Brunton's, philosopher Anthony Damiani, founded \"Wisdom's Goldenrod Center for Philosophic Studies\" in 1972. Swedish-American publisher Robert Larson started publishing the 16-volume set in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15071546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15071546", "title": "Paul Henry Maty", "text": "Paul Henry Maty\n\nPaul Henry Maty (1744, London - 16 January 1787) was an English librarian.\n\nHe was born in London, the son of the librarian Matthew Maty (1718-1786) and was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge. He vacated a Trinity fellowship to marry in 1775. In 1777 he published his religious doubts about the 39 articles in the \"Gentleman's Magazine\". With his Ecclesiastical advancement thus impeded, he became an assistant librarian, and then under-librarian, at the British Museum. \n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in May, 1771. He also obtained the job of foreign secretary, and subsequently general secretary, to the Society - although taking Charles Hutton's side in his dispute with the president Joseph Banks forced Maty's resignation in 1784.\n\nFrom 1782 to 1786 Maty founded, edited and was primary author of a review journal, \"A New Review: with Literary Curiosities and Literary Intelligence\". He indexed the \"Philosophical Transactions\", collaborated with Samuel Ayscough on a catalogue of the British Museum's printed books, and translated the \"Travels through Germany\" of Johann Kaspar Riesbeck (1754-1786). Some of his sermons were posthumously published by Samuel Horsley.\n\nOn his death he was buried in Bunhill Fields\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31967259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31967259", "title": "Raj Kiran (actor)", "text": "Raj Kiran (actor)\n\nRaj Kiran Mahtani is a former Indian actor who is recognised for his work in Bollywood. Born in a Sindhi family in Mumbai, he made his debut opposite Sarika in B. R. Ishara's \"Kaagaz Ki Nao\" (1975) and achieved the crest of his career in the 1980s, having appeared in more than 100 films.\n\nThroughout his career, he accepted leading as well as supporting roles. He was loved for his leading roles in films such as \"Kaagaz Ki Nao\" (1975), \"Shikshaa\" (1979), \"Maan Abhiman\" (1980) and \"Ek Naya Rishta\" (1988) as well as being appreciated for his supporting roles in films such as \"Karz\" (1980), \"Baseraa\" (1981), \"Arth\" (1982) and \"Raaj Tilak\" (1984) to name a few. He was often typecasted as a romantic as well as kind-hearted hero, which was considered as his most loved image by viewers.\n\nHe disappeared from the industry and was thought to be living as a recluse in USA for many years. Rishi Kapoor was reportedly told by Govind Mehtani, the brother of Raj Kiran that the actor was in Atlanta in an asylum where he was living due to a mental illness. In 2011, his daughter issued a public statement negating the reports of Raj Kiran being found in Atlanta. She and her family have been looking for him with the assistance of New York police and private detectives for the last eight years.\n\nRaj Kiran made his debut opposite Sarika in B. R. Ishara's \"Kaagaz Ki Nao\" (1975) and had the major flow in his career in the 1980s. In 1980, he hit the theatre with his successive eight releases — \"Karz\", \"Bambai Ka Maharaja\", \"Maan Abhiman\", \"Manokamnaa\", \"Nazrana Pyar Ka\", \"Patita\", \"Saajan Mere Main Saajan Ki\" and \"Yeh Kaisa Insaaf\".\n\nThroughout his career, he accepted leading as well as supporting roles. He was loved for his leading roles in films such as \"Kaagaz Ki Nao\" (1975), \"Shikshaa\" (1979), \"Maan Abhiman\" (1980) and \"Ek Naya Rishta\" (1988) as well as appreciated for his suppoting roles in films such as \"Karz\" (1980), \"Baseraa\" (1981), \"Arth\" (1982) and \"Raaj Tilak\" (1984) to name a few.\n\nHe was often typecasted as a romantic as well as kind hearted hero which was considered as his most loved image by viewers. Sometimes his roles were apparently flawed but at the end they turned out to be generous. His role as Gopal in \"Justice Chaudhury\" (1983) abandons his wife to blackmail his father-in-law, but it is later revealed that he has been trapped into doing so. In his role as the womanizer and alcoholic businessman Rajiv Tandon in \"Ek Naya Rishta\" (1988) he falls in love with a sex worker and marries her.\n\nSince the beginning of 1990s, his career began to slow down. Further, he made his television debut in the Shekhar Suman starrer, much acclaimed TV series \"Reporter\" (1994).\n\nRaj Kiran went into acute depression after his career had taken a backseat. Reportedly, the actor also went through a series of domestic crises. Later, he was admitted to Byculla Mental asylum in Mumbai. He disappeared from the industry and was thought to be living as a recluse in America for many years. Deepti Naval endeavoured to look for the missing actor through Facebook writing on her timeline, \"Looking for a friend from the film world his name is Raj Kiran - we have no news of him - last heard he was driving a cab in NY city if anyone has any clue, please tell . . .\"\n\nIn June, 2011, Rishi Kapoor, on a trip to USA made a phone call to the missing actor's brother Govind Mahtani, who told him that the actor was in Atlanta in an asylum where he was living due to a mental illness. He refused to give any more details.\n\nIn 2011, his daughter Rishika issued a public statement negating the reports of Raj Kiran being found in Atlanta. She and her family have been looking for him with the assistance of New York police and private detectives for the last eight years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51652925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51652925", "title": "Sonia Sanjinez De Atala", "text": "Sonia Sanjinez De Atala\n\nSonia Sanjinez de Atala (born c. 1951) is a Bolivian former drug trafficker. A member of \"La Corporación\" (\"The Corporation\"), Atala was one of the narcos responsible for the 1980 Bolivian coup d'état, known as the \"Cocaine Coup\", and the most powerful female drug lord in Bolivia at the time.\n\nAtala was born in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. She was the niece of drug trafficker Hugo Hurtado-Candia.\n\nShe sold television sets and radios to Panama before she was hired by Luis Arce Gomez to smuggle drugs. She was imprisoned in La Paz under the presidency of Lidia Gueiler Tejada, but for a short period. \nAfter the \"Cocaine Coup\" in 1980, installed by various Bolivian drug kingpins, Minister of the Interior Luis Arce Gomez put Atala in charge of smuggling cocaine and money laundering operations across the country. She paid her smugglers $20,000 monthly with a $500 tax for each kilogram of cocaine. \n\nAccording to ex-DEA agent Michael Levine (later her undercover partner), Atala was described as a \"very beautiful but deadly woman\" who could order people dead anywhere in the country. Her mansion in Santa Cruz was known as the \"Torture House\" due to her enforcers taking in enemies and torturing them. Atala was protected by an enforcer group made of Neo-Nazi mercenaries trained by Klaus Barbie.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, a period where Atala grew too powerful, the Bolivian narco government betrayed her during a cocaine deal with the Medellin Cartel. Atala was on the run from Luis Fernando Arcila Mejia (\"Papa Mejia\"), a Colombian drug smuggler whom Atala had refused to pay off a drug operation.\n\nAtala was present as a key witness at the trial of Luis Arce Gomez, who pleaded guilty to drug trafficking charges, and received a lighter sentence in return for incriminating information. She is currently under a witness protection program and resides in Santa Cruz, Bolivia.\n\nAtala married auto driver Walter \"Pachi\" Atala when she was 14 years old. They had four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "46241234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46241234", "title": "Theodoros Negris", "text": "Theodoros Negris\n\nTheodoros Negris (, Constantinople, 1790 – Nafplio, 22 November 1824) was a Greek politician.\n\nHe was born in Constantinople and descended from an old noble family of Genoa. The family's wealth allowed him to receive a good education. In 1818 he was initiated into Filiki Eteria (Society of Friends) and became one of its most active members. He served as secretary to the hospodar of Moldavia Scarlat Callimachi, and in early 1821 he was appointed Ottoman envoy to Paris. On his way, however, he received news on the outbreak of the Greek War of Independence, and went secretly to Greece. Following the massacre against the Greek population in Constantinople, his father was beheaded by the Ottomans.\n\nNegris arrived on the island of Spetses in Ottoman dress, and was almost lynched by the crowd, but was saved by Neofytos Vamvas. Although he spread the false rumour that he was a relative of Demetrios Ypsilantis, he soon joined with fellow Phanariotes Alexandros Mavrokordatos and Kostakis Karatzas in an informal political alliance directed against Ypsilantis. On 19 November 1821, he participated in the establishment of the Areopagus of Eastern Continental Greece, becoming its first president.\n\nHe took part in the First National Assembly at Epidaurus and the Second National Assembly at Astros, after which he switched camps and allied with Theodoros Kolokotronis and Odysseas Androutsos against Mavrokordatos. As the power of the Areopagus declined in favour of the central provisional government, so Negris too began to be sidelined and lose his influence.\n\nHe died on 22 November 1824 of typhus in Nafplio.\n"}
{"id": "171498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171498", "title": "Winfield Scott Hancock", "text": "Winfield Scott Hancock\n\nWinfield Scott Hancock (February 14, 1824 – February 9, 1886) was a career U.S. Army officer and the Democratic nominee for President of the United States in 1880. He served with distinction in the Army for four decades, including service in the Mexican–American War and as a Union general in the American Civil War. Known to his Army colleagues as \"Hancock the Superb\", he was noted in particular for his personal leadership at the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863. One military historian wrote, \"No other Union general at Gettysburg dominated men by the sheer force of their presence more completely than Hancock.\" As another wrote, \"his tactical skill had won him the quick admiration of adversaries who had come to know him as the 'Thunderbolt of the Army of the Potomac'.\" His military service continued after the Civil War, as Hancock participated in the military Reconstruction of the South and the Army's presence at the Western frontier.\n\nHancock's reputation as a war hero at Gettysburg, combined with his status as a Unionist and supporter of states' rights, made him a potential presidential candidate. His noted integrity was a counterpoint to the corruption of the era, for as President Rutherford B. Hayes said,If, when we make up our estimate of a public man, conspicuous both as a soldier and in civil life, we are to think first and chiefly of his manhood, his integrity, his purity, his singleness of purpose, and his unselfish devotion to duty, we can truthfully say of Hancock that he was through and through pure gold.When the Democrats nominated him for President in 1880, he ran a strong campaign, but was narrowly defeated by Republican James A. Garfield.\n\nWinfield Scott Hancock and his identical twin brother Hilary Baker Hancock were born on February 14, 1824, in Montgomery Square, Pennsylvania, a hamlet just northwest of Philadelphia in present-day Montgomery Township. The twins were the sons of Benjamin Franklin Hancock and Elizabeth Hoxworth Hancock. Winfield was named after Winfield Scott, a prominent general in the War of 1812.\n\nThe Hancock and Hoxworth families had lived in Montgomery County for several generations, and were of English, Scottish and Welsh descent. Benjamin Hancock was a schoolteacher when his sons were born. A few years after their birth, he moved the family to Norristown, the county seat, and began to practice law. Benjamin was also a deacon in the Baptist church and participated in municipal government (as an avowed Democrat).\n\nHancock was at first educated at Norristown Academy, but removed to the public schools when the first one opened in Norristown in the late 1830s. In 1840, Joseph Fornance, the local Congressman, nominated Hancock to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Hancock's progress at West Point was average. He graduated 18th in his class of 25 in 1844, and he was assigned to the infantry.\n\nHancock was commissioned a brevet second lieutenant in the 6th U.S. Infantry regiment, and initially was stationed in Indian Territory in the Red River Valley. The region was quiet at the time, and Hancock's time there was uneventful. Upon the outbreak of war with Mexico in 1846, Hancock worked to secure himself a place at the front. Initially assigned to recruiting duties in Kentucky, he proved so adept at signing up soldiers that his superiors were reluctant to release him from his post. By July 1847, however, Hancock was permitted to join his regiment in Puebla, Mexico, where they made up a part of the army led by his namesake, General Winfield Scott.\n\nScott's army moved farther inland from Puebla unopposed and attacked Mexico City from the south. During that campaign in 1847, Hancock first encountered battle at Contreras and Churubusco. He was appointed a brevet first lieutenant for gallant and meritorious service in those actions. Hancock was wounded in the knee at Churubusco and developed a fever. Although he was well enough to join his regiment at Molino del Rey, fever kept Hancock from participating in the final breakthrough to Mexico City, something he would regret for the rest of his life. After the final victory, Hancock remained in Mexico with the 6th Infantry until the treaty of peace was signed in 1848.\n\nHancock served in a number of assignments as an army quartermaster and adjutant, mostly in Fort Snelling, Minnesota and St. Louis, Missouri. It was in St. Louis that he met Almira (\"Allie\") Russell and they married on January 24, 1850. Allie gave birth to two children, Russell in 1850 and Ada in 1857, but both children died before their parents. Hancock was promoted to captain in 1855 and assigned to Fort Myers, Florida. Hancock's young family accompanied him to his new posting, where Allie Hancock was the only woman on the post.\n\nHancock's tour in Florida coincided with the end of the Third Seminole War. His duties were primarily those of a quartermaster, and he did not see action in that campaign. As the situation in Florida began to settle down, Hancock was reassigned to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He served in the West during the partisan warfare of \"Bleeding Kansas\", and in the Utah Territory, where the 6th Infantry arrived after the Utah War. Following the resolution of that conflict, Hancock was stationed in southern California in November 1858. He remained there, joined by Allie and the children, until the Civil War broke out in 1861, serving as a captain and assistant quartermaster under future Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston. In California, Hancock became friendly with a number of southern officers, most significantly Lewis A. Armistead of Virginia. At the outbreak of the Civil War, Armistead and the other southerners left to join the Confederate States Army, while Hancock remained in the service of the United States.\n\nHancock returned east to assume quartermaster duties for the rapidly growing Union Army, but was quickly promoted to brigadier general on September 23, 1861, and given an infantry brigade to command in the division of Brig. Gen. William F. \"Baldy\" Smith, Army of the Potomac. He earned his \"Superb\" nickname in the Peninsula Campaign, in 1862, by leading a critical counterattack in the Battle of Williamsburg; army commander Maj. Gen. George B. McClellan telegraphed to Washington that \"Hancock was superb today\" and the appellation stuck. McClellan did not follow through on Hancock's initiative, however, and Confederate forces were allowed to withdraw unmolested.\n\nIn the Battle of Antietam, Hancock assumed command of the 1st Division, II Corps, following the mortal wounding of Maj. Gen. Israel B. Richardson in the horrific fighting at \"Bloody Lane\". Hancock and his staff made a dramatic entrance to the battlefield, galloping between his troops and the enemy, parallel to the Sunken Road. His men assumed that Hancock would order counterattacks against the exhausted Confederates, but he carried orders from McClellan to hold his position. He was promoted to major general of volunteers on November 29, 1862. He led his division in the disastrous attack on Marye's Heights in the Battle of Fredericksburg the following month and was wounded in the abdomen. At the Battle of Chancellorsville, his division covered Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker's withdrawal and Hancock was wounded again. His corps commander, Maj. Gen. Darius N. Couch, transferred out of the Army of the Potomac in protest of actions Hooker took in the battle and Hancock assumed command of II Corps, which he would lead until shortly before the war's end.\n\nHancock's most famous service was as a new corps commander at the Battle of Gettysburg, July 1 to 3, 1863. After his friend, Maj. Gen. John F. Reynolds, was killed early on July 1, Maj. Gen. George G. Meade, the new commander of the Army of the Potomac, sent Hancock ahead to take command of the units on the field and assess the situation. Hancock thus was in temporary command of the \"left wing\" of the army, consisting of the I, II, III, and XI Corps. This demonstrated Meade's high confidence in him, because Hancock was not the most senior Union officer at Gettysburg at the time. Hancock and the more senior XI Corps commander, Maj. Gen. Oliver O. Howard, argued briefly about this command arrangement, but Hancock prevailed and he organized the Union defenses on Cemetery Hill as more numerous Confederate forces drove the I and XI Corps back through the town. He had the authority from Meade to withdraw the forces, so he was responsible for the decision to stand and fight at Gettysburg. At the conclusion of the day's action, Maj. Gen. Henry Warner Slocum arrived on the field and assumed command until Gen. Meade arrived after midnight.\n\nOn July 2, Hancock's II Corps was positioned on Cemetery Ridge, roughly in the center of the Union line, while Confederate General Robert E. Lee launched assaults on both ends of the line. On the Union left, Lt. Gen. James Longstreet's assault smashed the III Corps and Hancock sent in his 1st Division, under Brig. Gen. John C. Caldwell, to reinforce the Union in the Wheatfield. As Lt. Gen. A.P. Hill's corps continued the attack toward the Union center, Hancock rallied the defenses and rushed units to the critical spots. First, he issued the Third Brigade of his Third Division under Colonel George Willard into the fray to stop the advance of Confederate Brigadier General William Barksdale's Brigade. In one famous incident, he sacrificed a regiment, the 1st Minnesota Volunteer Infantry Regiment, by ordering it to advance and charge a Confederate brigade four times its size, causing the Minnesotans to suffer 87% casualties. While costly to the regiment, this heroic sacrifice bought time to organize the defensive line and saved the day for the Union army. Following the action toward his right, he met the 13th Vermont Volunteer Infantry Regiment, a First Corps unit which had come from Cemetery Hill to help quell the crisis. Hancock sent them out to recover some artillery pieces Confederates had taken and were pulling away. The Vermonters were successful. Having stabilized his line, he turned his attention to the sound of fighting on East Cemetery Hill. There, with darkness falling, Confederates from Major General Jubal Early's Division had gotten into Union batteries and were fighting the cannoneers hand-to-hand. Hancock sent the First Brigade of his Third Division, under Colonel Samuel S. Carroll, to the fighting. The brigade was crucial in flushing the enemy out of the batteries and dispatching them back down the face of East Cemetery Hill.\n\nOn July 3, Hancock continued in his position on Cemetery Ridge and thus bore the brunt of Pickett's Charge. During the massive Confederate artillery bombardment that preceded the infantry assault, Hancock was prominent on horseback in reviewing and encouraging his troops. When one of his subordinates protested, \"General, the corps commander ought not to risk his life that way,\" Hancock is said to have replied, \"There are times when a corps commander's life does not count.\" During the infantry assault, his old friend, now Brig. Gen. Lewis A. Armistead, leading a brigade in Maj. Gen. George Pickett's division, was wounded and died two days later. Hancock could not meet with his friend because he had just been wounded himself, a severe wound caused by a bullet striking the pommel of his saddle, entering his inner right thigh along with wood fragments and a large bent nail. Helped from his horse by aides, and with a tourniquet applied to staunch the bleeding, he removed the saddle nail himself and, mistaking its source, remarked wryly, \"They must be hard up for ammunition when they throw such shot as that.\" News of Armistead's mortal wounding was brought to Hancock by a member of his staff, Captain Henry H. Bingham. Despite his pain, Hancock refused evacuation to the rear until the battle was resolved. He had been an inspiration for his troops throughout the three-day battle. Hancock later received the thanks of the U.S. Congress for \"... his gallant, meritorious and conspicuous share in that great and decisive victory.\"\n\nHancock suffered from the effects of his Gettysburg wound for the rest of the war. After recuperating in Norristown, he performed recruiting services over the winter and returned in the spring to field command of the II Corps for Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's 1864 Overland Campaign, but he never regained full mobility and his former youthful energy. Nevertheless, he performed well at the Battle of the Wilderness and commanded a critical breakthrough assault of the Mule Shoe at the \"Bloody Angle\" in the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House on May 12, shattering the Confederate defenders in his front, including the Stonewall Brigade. His corps suffered enormous losses during a futile assault Grant ordered at Cold Harbor.\n\nAfter Grant's army slipped past Lee's army to cross the James River, Hancock found himself in a position from which he might have ended the war. His corps arrived to support William Farrar Smith's assaults on the lightly held Petersburg defensive lines, but he deferred to Smith's advice because Smith knew the ground and had been on the field all day, and no significant assaults were made before the Confederate lines were reinforced. One of the great opportunities of the war was lost. After his corps participated in the assaults at Deep Bottom, Hancock was promoted to brigadier general in the regular army, effective August 12, 1864.\n\nHancock's only significant military defeat occurred during the Siege of Petersburg. His II Corps moved south of the city, along the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad, tearing up track. On August 25, Confederate Maj. Gen. Henry Heth attacked and overran the faulty Union position at Reams's Station, shattering the II Corps, capturing many prisoners. Despite a later victory at Hatcher's Run, the humiliation of Reams's Station contributed, along with the lingering effects of his Gettysburg wound, to his decision to give up field command in November. He left the II Corps after a year in which it had suffered over 40,000 casualties, but had achieved significant military victories. His next assignment was to command the ceremonial First Veteran Corps. He performed more recruiting, commanded the Middle Department, and relieved Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan in command of forces in the now-quiet Shenandoah Valley. He was promoted to brevet major general in the regular army for his service at Spotsylvania, effective March 13, 1865.\n\nAt the close of the war, Hancock was assigned to supervise the execution of the Lincoln assassination conspirators. Lincoln had been assassinated on April 14, 1865, and by May 9 of that year, a military commission had been convened to try the accused. The actual assassin, John Wilkes Booth, was already dead, but the trial of his co-conspirators proceeded quickly, resulting in convictions. President Andrew Johnson ordered the executions to be carried out on July 7. Although he was reluctant to execute some of the less-culpable conspirators, especially Mary Surratt, Hancock carried out his orders, later writing that \"every soldier was bound to act as I did under similar circumstances.\"\n\nAfter the executions, Hancock was assigned command of the newly organized Middle Military Department, headquartered in Baltimore. In 1866, on Grant's recommendation, Hancock was promoted to major general and was transferred, later that year, to command of the military Department of the Missouri, which included the states of Missouri, Kansas, Colorado, and New Mexico. Hancock reported to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and took up his new posting. Soon after arriving, he was assigned by General Sherman to lead an expedition to negotiate with the Cheyenne and Sioux, with whom relations had worsened since the Sand Creek massacre. The negotiations got off to a bad start, and after Hancock ordered the burning of an abandoned Cheyenne village in central Kansas, relations became worse than when the expedition had started. There was little loss of life on either side, but the mission could not be called a success.\n\nHancock's time in the West was brief. President Johnson, unhappy with the way Republican generals were governing the South under Reconstruction, sought replacements for them. The general who offended Johnson the most was Philip Sheridan, and Johnson soon ordered General Grant to switch the assignments of Hancock and Sheridan, believing that Hancock, a Democrat, would govern in a style more to Johnson's liking. Although neither man was pleased with the change, Sheridan reported to Fort Leavenworth and Hancock to New Orleans.\n\nHancock's new assignment found him in charge of the Fifth Military District, covering Texas and Louisiana. Almost immediately upon arriving, Hancock ingratiated himself with the white conservative population by issuing his General Order Number 40 of November 29, 1867. In that order, written while traveling to New Orleans, Hancock expressed sentiments in support of President Johnson's policies, writing that if the residents of the district conducted themselves peacefully and the civilian officials perform their duties, then \"the military power should cease to lead, and the civil administration resume its natural and rightful dominion.\" The order continued:\n\nHancock's order encouraged white Democrats across the South who hoped to return to civilian government more quickly, but discomforted blacks and Republicans in the South who feared a return to the antebellum ways of conservative white dominance.\n\nHancock's General Order Number 40 was quickly condemned by Republicans in Washington, especially by the Radicals, while President Johnson wholeheartedly approved. Heedless of the situation in Washington, Hancock soon put his words into action, refusing local Republican politicians' requests to use his power to overturn elections and court verdicts, while also letting it be known that open insurrection would be suppressed. Hancock's popularity within the Democratic party grew to the extent that he was considered a potential presidential nominee for that party in the 1868 election. Although Hancock collected a significant number of delegates at the 1868 convention, his presidential possibilities went unfulfilled. Even so, he was henceforth identified as a rare breed in politics: one who believed in the Democratic Party's principles of states' rights and limited government, but whose anti-secessionist sentiment was unimpeachable.\n\nFollowing General Grant's 1868 presidential victory, the Republicans were firmly in charge in Washington. As a result, Hancock found himself transferred, this time away from the sensitive assignment of reconstructing the South and into the relative backwater that was the Department of Dakota. The Department covered Minnesota, Montana, and the Dakotas. As in his previous Western command, Hancock began with a conference of the Indian chiefs, but this time was more successful in establishing a peaceful intent. Relations worsened in 1870, however, as an army expedition committed a massacre against the Blackfeet. Relations with the Sioux also became contentious as a result of white encroachment into the Black Hills, in violation of the Treaty of Fort Laramie. Still, war was averted, for the time being, and most of Hancock's command was peaceful.\n\nIt was during this tour that Hancock had the opportunity to contribute to the creation of Yellowstone National Park. In August 1870, he ordered the 2nd Cavalry at Fort Ellis to provide a military escort for General Henry D. Washburn's planned exploration of the Yellowstone Region. The expedition, which was a major impetus in creating the park, became known as the Washburn-Langford-Doane Expedition. Hancock's order led to the assignment of Lt. Gustavus Cheyney Doane and a troop of 5 cavalrymen from Fort Ellis to escort the expedition. In 1871, Captain John W. Barlow during his exploration of the Yellowstone region formally named a summit on what would become the southern boundary of the park Mount Hancock to honor the general's decision to provide the escort.\n\nIn 1872, General Meade died, leaving Hancock the army's senior major general. This entitled him to a more prominent command, and President Grant, still desirous to keep Hancock from a Southern post, assigned him command of the Division of the Atlantic, headquartered at Fort Columbus on Governors Island, in New York City. The vast department covered the settled northeast area of the country and was militarily uneventful with the exception of the army's involvement in the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. When railroad workers went on strike to protest wage cuts, the nation's transportation system was paralyzed. The governors of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Maryland asked President Hayes to call in federal troops to re-open the railways. Once federal troops entered the cities, most of the strikers melted away, but there were some violent clashes.\n\nAll the while Hancock was posted in New York, he did his best to keep his political ambitions alive. He received some votes at the Democrats' 1876 convention, but was never a serious contender as New York governor Samuel J. Tilden swept the field on the second ballot. The Republican candidate, Rutherford B. Hayes, won the election, and Hancock refocused his ambition on 1880. The electoral crisis of 1876 and the subsequent end to Reconstruction in 1877 convinced many observers that the election of 1880 would give the Democrats their best chance at victory in a generation.\n\nHancock's name had been proposed several times for the Democratic nomination for president, but he never captured a majority of delegates. In 1880, however, Hancock's chances improved. President Hayes had promised not to run for a second term, and the previous Democratic nominee, Tilden, declined to run again due to poor health. Hancock faced several competitors for the nomination, including Thomas A. Hendricks, Allen G. Thurman, Stephen Johnson Field, and Thomas F. Bayard. Hancock's neutrality on the monetary question, and his lingering support in the South (owing to his General Order Number 40) meant that Hancock, more than any other candidate, had nationwide support. When the Democratic convention assembled in Cincinnati in June 1880, Hancock led on the first ballot, but did not have a majority. By the second ballot, Hancock received the requisite two-thirds, and William Hayden English of Indiana was chosen as his running mate.\n\nThe Republicans nominated James A. Garfield, a Congressman from Ohio and a skillful politician. Hancock and the Democrats expected to carry the Solid South, but needed to add a few of the Northern states to their total to win the election. The practical differences between the parties were few, and the Republicans were reluctant to attack Hancock personally because of his heroic reputation. The one policy difference the Republicans were able to exploit was a statement in the Democratic platform endorsing \"a tariff for revenue only\". Garfield's campaigners used this statement to paint the Democrats as unsympathetic to the plight of industrial laborers, a group that would benefit by a high protective tariff. The tariff issue cut Democratic support in industrialized Northern states, which were essential in establishing a Democratic majority. In the end, the Democrats and Hancock failed to carry any of the Northern states they had targeted, with the exception of New Jersey. Hancock lost the election to Garfield. Garfield polled only 39,213 more votes than Hancock, the popular vote being 4,453,295 for Garfield and 4,414,082 for Hancock. The electoral count, however, had a much larger spread: Garfield polled 214 electoral votes and Hancock only 155.\nHancock took his electoral defeat in stride and attended Garfield's inauguration. Following the election, Hancock carried on as commander of the Division of the Atlantic. He was elected president of the National Rifle Association in 1881, explaining that \"The object of the NRA is to increase the military strength of the country by making skill in the use of arms as prevalent as it was in the days of the Revolution.\" Hancock was a Charter Director and the first president of the Military Service Institution of the United States from 1878 until his death in 1886. He was commander-in-chief of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States veterans organization from 1879 until his death in 1886. He was the author of \"Reports of Major General W. S. Hancock upon Indian Affairs\", published in 1867. Hancock's last major public appearance was to preside over the funeral of President Grant in 1885, although he also made a less publicized trip that year to Gettysburg.\n\nHancock died in 1886 at Governors Island, still in command of the Military Division of the Atlantic, the victim of an infected carbuncle, complicated by diabetes. He is buried in Montgomery Cemetery in West Norriton Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, near Norristown, Pennsylvania. Although he outlived both of his children, he was survived by the three grandchildren fathered by his son, Russell. Hancock's wife, Almira, published \"Reminiscences of Winfield Scott Hancock\" in 1887.\n\nIn 1893, Republican General Francis A. Walker wrote,Although I did not vote for General Hancock, I am strongly disposed to believe that one of the best things the nation has lost in recent years has been the example and the influence of that chivalric, stately, and splendid gentleman in the White House. Perhaps much which both parties now recognize as having been unfortunate and mischievous during the past thirteen years would have been avoided had General Hancock been elected.\n\nWinfield Scott Hancock is memorialized in a number of statues:\nThe original Winfield Scott Hancock Elementary School, located at Arch and East Spruce Streets in Norristown, Pennsylvania, was built in 1895 in memory of the General who grew up not far from the site. It was replaced in 1962 by a new building still in use by the Norristown Area School District only a few blocks away at Arch and Summit Streets, which is also named after General Hancock. The original 1895 building still stands and is used by a community non-profit organization.\n\nA Pennsylvania historical marker was dedicated September 11, 1947 along Bethlehem Pike (PA 309), just north of US 202, where Hancock was born.\nHancock's portrait adorns U.S. currency on the $2 Silver Certificate series of 1886. Approximately 1,500 to 2,500 of these bills survive today in numismatic collections. Hancock's bill is ranked number 73 on a list of \"100 Greatest American Currency Notes\".\n\nHancock was an important character in the Shaara family's Civil War historical novels: \"The Killer Angels\" by Michael Shaara, and \"Gods and Generals\" and \"The Last Full Measure\" by Jeffrey Shaara. In the films \"Gettysburg\" (1993) and \"Gods and Generals\" (2003), based on the first two of these novels, Hancock is portrayed by Brian Mallon, and is depicted in both films in a very favorable light. A number of scenes in the novel \"Gods and Generals\" that depict Hancock and his friend Lewis A. Armistead in Southern California before the war were omitted from the film.\n\nHancock's Washington D.C. equestrian statue is featured in the opening to the Netflix series House of Cards.\n\n\n\n"}
