{"id": "3993898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3993898", "title": "2004 Morecambe Bay cockling disaster", "text": "2004 Morecambe Bay cockling disaster\n\nThe Morecambe Bay cockling disaster ( \"Shi bèi cǎn'àn\", \"cockle-picking tragedy\") occurred on the evening of 5 February 2004 at Morecambe Bay in North West England, when at least 21 Chinese illegal immigrant labourers were drowned by an incoming tide after picking cockles off the Lancashire/Cumbrian coast.\n\nDavid Anthony Eden, Sr., and David Anthony Eden, Jr., a father-and-son team from England, had unlawfully hired a group of Chinese workers to pick cockles; they were to be paid £5 per 25 kg of cockles, (9p per lb), far less than the typical local rate at the time. The Chinese had been imported unlawfully via containers into Liverpool, and were hired out through local criminal agents of international Chinese Triads. The cockles to be collected are best found at low tide on sand flats at Warton Sands, near Hest Bank. The Chinese workers were unfamiliar with local geography, language, and custom. They were cut off by the incoming tide in the bay around 9:30 pm.\n\nThe emergency services were alerted by a mobile phone call made by one of the workers, who spoke little English and was only able to say \"sinking water\" before the call was cut off. A total of 21 bodies, of men and women between the ages of 18 and 45, were recovered from the bay after the incident. Two of the victims were women; the vast majority were young men in their 20s and 30s, with only two being over 40 and only one, a male, under 20. Most of the victims were previously employed as farmers, and two were fishermen. All of the bodies of the victims were found, at a variety of trajectories, at nine locations between the cockling area and shore, indicating that the majority had attempted to swim but had been overcome partly, or largely, by hypothermia. Four of the victims died after the truck they used to reach the cockling area became overwhelmed by water. A further two cocklers were believed to have been with those drowned, with remains of one being found in 2010.\n\nAt the subsequent hearing, British cocklers returning to shore on the same evening were reported to have attempted to warn the Chinese group by tapping their watches and trying to speak with them. A survivor testified that the leader of the group had made a mistake about the time of the tides. Fourteen other members of the group are reported to have made it safely to the shore, making 15 survivors in total. The workers were all illegal immigrants, mainly from the Fujian province of China, and have been described as being untrained and inexperienced.\n\nDavid Anthony Eden, Sr., and David Anthony Eden, Jr., from Prenton in Merseyside, who bought cockles from the work gang, were cleared of helping the workers break immigration law.\n\nGangmaster Lin Liang Ren was found guilty of the manslaughter of at least 21 people (two further cocklers were thought to have been killed, but their bodies were never found). Ren, his girlfriend Zhao Xiao Qing and his cousin Lin Mu Yong were also convicted of breaking immigration laws. Ren was sentenced to 12 years for manslaughter, 6 years for facilitating illegal immigration (to be served concurrently with the manslaughter sentence), and 2 years for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice (to be served subsequent to the manslaughter sentence). Lin Mu Yong was sentenced to four years and nine months. Zhao Xiao Qing was sentenced to 2 years and 9 months for facilitation of illegal immigration and perverting the course of justice.\n\nThe 2006 film \"Ghosts\", directed by Nick Broomfield, is a dramatisation of the events leading up to the tragedy.\n\nIn 2013, artist Isaac Julien released his film \"Ten Thousand Waves\" about the disaster.\n\nThe 2007 folk song \"On Morecambe Bay\" by folk artist Kevin Littlewood tells the story of these tragic events. This song was later covered by folk musician Christy Moore.\n\nA 2005 spoken-word track by Momus, \"Cockle Pickers\", relates the story of the tragedy.\n\nIn 2017, British Band Stereo Honey released \"The Bay\" as a part of their \"Monuments\" EP, which is about the 2004 tragedy. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23049004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23049004", "title": "22 June 1897", "text": "22 June 1897\n\n22 June 1897 is a 1979 Marathi film, co-written by Shankar Nag and Nachiket Patwardhan and directed by the husband and wife team of Jayoo Patwardhan and Nachiket Patwardhan. The duo are also practising architects. It is based on the true life story of the assassination of British Government officers Rand ICS and Lt. Ayerst.\nThe film has been included in the book \"One Hundred Indian Feature Films: An Annotated Filmography\", a representative selection from the first Indian talkies to the then-present date (1988). The title of the film is the date of the assassination, 22 June 1897. It won the 1980 Indian Silver Lotus at the National Film Awards in two categories: Best film on National Integration and Art Direction. It also won the 1980 Maharashtra State awards for best film of the year and best director. The film has been included in the selected collection of Indian films and videos in the US Library of Congress. Most of the performers in the film then belonged to Theatre Academy, Pune.\n\nPoona was visited by the pestilence of bubonic plague which took a heavy toll of life. But the plague had another, indirect and far reaching consequence on the politics of the country. The behaviour of the military which was called out to deal with the situation arising from the pestilence caused great indignation. On 22 June 1897, British officer Charles Walter Rand Assistant Collector of Pune and Chairman of the Special Plague Committee, Pune, and British Army officer Lieutenant Charles Egerton Ayerst, were assassinated on the Ganeshkhind road, Pune, on their way back from a Government house party celebrating the Diamond Jubilee anniversary of the coronation of Queen Victoria. \nC. W. Rand of the ICS was appointed to take charge of the plague control measures and had successfully contained the epidemic; but his methods of evacuating the people, of fumigating their dwellings, and burning the contaminated articles, evoked tremendous hatred amongst certain sections of the society, which led to his assassination. The climax scene is the shooting, after the midnight party finished, the carriages started moving out of the Government House, one of the boys in that group watched from outside the gate. As Rand came out, he gave the signal. Another boy began running with the carriage. As he reached the spot where Damodar, Balkrishna and others were waiting, he shouted to them 'Gondya ala re! (Gondya has come)'. Balkrishna jumped on the carriage and shot the occupant. But there was a mistake. It was Ayerst whom he had killed. They realised their mistake. When Rand's carriage came to the spot, Damodar climbed on it and shot Rand. Ayerst was killed on the spot, and Rand died in hospital on 3 July 1897.\n\nThe film is based on the true life events leading up to, and the consequences of, the assassination of Charles Walter Rand, Assistant Collector of Pune and Chairman of the Special Plague Committee, Pune, and British Army officer Lt Charles Egerton Ayerst.\nAyerst was Rand's military escort on 22 June 1897 by the Chapekar brothers – Damodar Hari, Vasudev Hari and Balkrishna Hari and Mahadeo Vinayak Ranade, Khando Vishnu Sathe a school boy was charged as a co-conspirator and sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment.\nThe film was the directorial debut of Jayoo and Nachiket Patwardhan, commissioned by the National Film Development Corporation of India (NFDC) on a shoestring Rupees 350,000 budget. Jayoo Patwardhan scouted for locations in Wai and Pune for the period look, poring over scores of photographs obtained by her grandfather, and spending months researching the details. The film was shot entirely on locations in Pune, Wai and Mumbai in March and April 1979. The co-director considers the film \"a solid piece of history with huge archival value\". Vijay Tendulkar its dialogue writer considered that \"the film is significant because it shows the way history needs to be treated in cinema – in a deglam manner where martyrs are also shown as human beings\", and judged the effort to be stupendous given the tight budget and other limitations of the time. \"The dialogues I wrote were brief and simple, just like the script demanded,\" felt Tendulkar.\n\nDamodar Hari's narration of the shooting differs from the events as shown in the film. In his autobiography Damodar Hari writes that he believed the jubilee celebrations would cause Europeans of all ranks to go to the Government House, and this would give them the opportunity to kill Rand. The brothers Damodar Hari and Balkrishna Hari selected a spot of Ganeshkhind road, by the side of a yellow bungalow to shoot at Rand. Each armed with a sword and a pistol. Balkrishna in addition carried a hatchet. They reached Ganeshkhind, they saw what looked like Rand's carriage pass by, but they let it go, not being sure, deciding to attack him on his way back. They reached Government House at 7.00–7.30 in the evening, as darkness was beginning to set in. A large number of people had gathered to witness the spectacle at Government House, and there were bonfires on the hills. The swords and the hatchet they carried made movement without raising suspicion difficult, so they deposited them under a stone culvert near the bungalow, so as to retrieve it in case of need. As planned, Damodar Hari waited at the gate of the Government House, and as Rand's carriage emerged, ran 10–15 paces behind it. As the carriage reached the yellow bungalow, Damodar made up the distance, and called out \"Gondya\", a predetermined signal for Balkrishna to take action. Damodar Hari undid the flap of the carriage, raised it and fired from a distance of about a span. It was originally planned that both would shoot at Rand, so as to ensure that Rand would not live, however Balkrishna Hari lagged behind and Rand's carriage rolled on, Balkrishna Hari meanwhile on the suspicion that the occupants of the following carriage were whispering to each other, fired at the head of one of them from behind.\n\nThe credits for the film are as follows:\n\n\nMost of the performers in the film belonged to Theater Academy, Pune. The cast of the film is as follows: \nDamodar Chapekar: Prabhakar Patankar. \nVasudev Chapekar : Udayan Dixit.\nHari Vinayak Chapekar : Vasudev Palande. \nDwarka Hari Chapekar: Shanta Jog.\nDaughters-in-law : Arundhatti Rao, Sujal Watve, Dipali Kulkarni.\nGovindmama : Satish Khare.\nRanade : Sadanand Borse.\nApte : Shrikant Gadre.\nDutta Bhuskute : Suresh Bhasale.\nGanesh Dravid : Jairam Hardikar.\nRamchandra Dravid : Sanjiv Ambike.\nNilu Dravid : Vikas Deshpande.\nHavaldar Rama Pandu : Mukund Chitale.\nWalter Rand : John Irving.\nBal Gangadhar Tilak : Sadashiv Amrapurkar.\nInspector Brewin : Rod Gilbert. \nSupported by:\nUlrich Merkel, Mervin Popplstone, Mihir Thatte, Shri Pendse, Pramod Kale, Harry Falk, Father Lederle, Mathew Manning, Shirish More, Suhas Kulkarni, Kishore Joshi, Shirish Bodhani, Subhash Awchat, Zareer Reporter, Robert Manning, Anand Hagir, Peter Saylas, Frank and Dipa Handrich, Shaila Joshi, Dilip Limaye, Bali Awasthee, Priti Limaye, Jim Benson, Guy de la Chevalerie and others.The character of Balkrishna Chapekar was portrayed by Ravindra Mankani. It was his first film. Then a student of College of Engineering, Pune, he was spotted by directors on stage there. Mankani has said that \"\"It was a learning experience for all of us, and the film launched my acting career\".\" \"It was a straight shot of nine minutes and 57 seconds without any retakes simply because we could not afford to waste footage,\" Mankani has been quoted recalling his debut shot.\n\nThe film was released on its 25th anniversary, by Rudraa Home Video in its 'Modern Classic' series on 22 June 2005, VCDs with English subtitles and each original VCD. It is listed under \"Best of Marathi cinema\".\n\n\nThe book \"One Hundred Indian Feature Films: An Annotated Filmography\", calls the film, made by the Patwardhans, practising architects, a leaf out of history more as an exercise in cinema than in patriotism, faithful in every detail and structurally controlled, an unusual attempt at bringing a new visual perception into the mechanisms of film making. It finds the faces, mostly from Marathi stage, powerful in their authenticity, chiselled of grim determination, with firelight dancing on them, rugged stone walls, skirting narrow paths, the pillared inner courtyards of traditional dwellings, all into place in an intensely moving dramatic experience.\n\nGokulsing et al. write in their book \"Popular Indian Cinema\", that the film cinematises a violent incident in Indian history, the determination of a group of Brahmin youths to challenge two of the elements of British imperialism – the English language and Christianity, the killing of Rand and events before and its aftermath.\nMukta Rajadhyaksha, Mumbai based theatre and media critic, writing in The Times of India, considers this film an honourable exception amid the degeneration that Marathi cinema went through after its golden age, the decades of 50s and 60s. She feels that the film should have won the Golden Lotus for best film, but did not as Marathi cinema, unlike cinema from Bengal and the South lacked a powerful lobby at the national level. Namrata Joshi writing for Outlook opines that commercial Marathi cinema did not benefit from arthouse films made by filmmakers like Jabbar Patel (\"Sinhasan\", \"Umbartha\"), Jayoo and Nachiket Patwardhan (\"22 June 1897\"), Vijaya Mehta (\"Smriti Chitre\"), Amol Palekar (\"Bangarwadi\"), Sumitra Bhave and others.\n\nfilm.at writes that while the Indian independence movement is known in the West only in connection with Mahatma Gandhi, the film tells one of the most important chapters of the early armed independence attempts in India.\nSpicevienna.org considers the film a modern classic of Indian cinema\n\nThe film has been a winner of a couple of State and National Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21995189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21995189", "title": "33 Variations", "text": "33 Variations\n\n33 Variations is a play by Moisés Kaufman, inspired by Ludwig van Beethoven's Diabelli Variations. It débuted on Broadway on March 9, 2009, starring Jane Fonda. Originally written in 2007, its world première was held at Arena Stage in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe play simultaneously examines the creative process behind Beethoven's \"Diabelli Variations\" and the journey of a musicologist, Katherine Brandt, to discover the meaning behind why Beethoven was compelled to write thirty-three distinct variations on a simple theme by a minor music publisher. The progression of her Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and her relationship with her daughter are also themes of the story, as is Beethoven's growing deafness.\n\nThe action takes place both in Beethoven's time and the present, switching back and forth between the two. However, at certain key points, characters from both time periods appear on stage to deliver lines simultaneously, emphasizing the parallels between the exploits of both sets of characters.\n\nThe original production was directed by the playwright, Moisés Kaufman, with piano by Diane Walsh.\n\n\"33 Variations\" premièred at Arena Stage in September 2007, with Mary Beth Peil as Katherine, Laura Odeh as her daughter Clara, and Graeme Malcolm as Beethoven.\n\nA West Coast production ran in April 2008 at La Jolla Playhouse's Mandell Weiss Theatre, with Jayne Atkinson as Katherine, Zach Grenier as Beethoven, and Odeh returning as Clara.\n\nThe play premièred on Broadway at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre in a limited engagement, on March 9, 2009, with Jane Fonda as Katherine, in her first appearance on Broadway in forty-six years. Grenier returned as Beethoven. Sets by Derek McLane; costumes by Janice Pytel; lighting by David Lander; sound by André J. Pluess; projection design by Jeff Sugg; choreography by Daniel Pelzig. It closed May 21, 2009.\n\n\"33 Variations\" had regional premieres at Carolina Actors Studio Theatre in Charlotte, North Carolina on November 23, 2012, at the Capital Repertory Theater in Albany, New York on September 10, 2010, and at the Ensemble Theatre of Cincinnati on September 2, 2009.\n\n2009 Tony Awards:\n\nIt won the 2007 Edgerton New American Play Award and the 2008 Harold and Mimi Steinberg American Theatre Critics Association New Play Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "59346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59346", "title": "510 BC", "text": "510 BC\n\nThe year 510 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 244 \" Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 510 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "88868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=88868", "title": "544 BC", "text": "544 BC\n\nThe year 544 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 210 \" Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 544 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\nMany Buddhist traditions believe it was the year when the Buddha reached parinirvana, though the actual year 0 of the Buddhist calendar corresponds to the previous year, 545 BC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2372281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2372281", "title": "Air France Flight 296", "text": "Air France Flight 296\n\nAir France Flight 296 was a chartered flight of a new Airbus A320-111 operated by Air France. On June 26, 1988, it crashed while making a low pass over Mulhouse–Habsheim Airport (ICAO airport tcode LFGB) as part of the Habsheim Air Show. Most of the crash sequence, which occurred in front of several thousand spectators, was caught on video. The cause of the crash has been the source of major controversy.\n\nThis particular flight was not only the A320's first passenger flight (most of those on-board were journalists and raffle winners), but it was also the first public demonstration of any civilian fly-by-wire aircraft. The low-speed flyover, with landing gear down, was supposed to take place at an altitude of 100 feet (33 metres); instead, the plane performed the flyover at 30 feet, skimmed the treetops of the forest at the end of the runway (which had not been shown on the airport map given to the pilots), and crashed. All the passengers survived the initial impact, but a woman and two children died from smoke inhalation before they were able to escape.\n\nOfficial reports concluded that the pilots flew too low, too slow, failed to see the forest and accidentally flew into it. The captain, Michel Asseline, disputed the report and claimed an error in the fly-by-wire computer prevented him from applying thrust and pulling up. In the aftermath of the crash, there were allegations that investigators had tampered with evidence, specifically the aircraft's flight recorders (\"black boxes\").\n\nThis was the first crash of an A320 aircraft.\n\nThe aircraft, an Airbus A320-111, registration F-GFKC, serial number 9, first flew on 6 January 1988, and was delivered to Air France on 23 June 1988. It was the third A320 delivered to Air France, the launch customer.\n\nCaptain Michel Asseline, 44, had been an airline pilot with Air France for almost 20 years and had the following endorsements: Caravelle, Boeing 707, 727, and 737, and Airbus A300 and A310. He was a highly distinguished pilot with 10,463 flight hours. A training captain since 1979, he was appointed to head the company's A320 training subdivision at the end of 1987. As Air France's technical pilot, he had been heavily involved in test flying the A320 type and had carried out maneuvers beyond normal operational limitations. He had total confidence in the aircraft's computer systems.\n\nFirst Officer Pierre Mazières, 45, had been flying with the company since 1969 and had been a training captain for six years. He was endorsed on the Caravelle, Boeing 707 and 737, and had qualified as an A320 captain three months before the accident. He had 10,853 hours of flight time.\n\nAt the time of the incident, only three of the new aircraft type had been delivered to Air France, and the newest one (in service for two days) had been chosen for the flyover.\n\nThe aircraft was to fly from Charles de Gaulle Airport to Basel–Mulhouse Airport for a press conference. Then, sightseeing charter passengers would board and the aircraft would fly the short distance to Habsheim aerodrome. The captain would make a low-level fly-pass over Runway 02, climb up and turn back, and repeat the fly-pass over the same runway in the reciprocal direction (Runway 20). This would be followed by a sightseeing trip south to Mont Blanc before the passengers would be returned to Basel–Mulhouse Airport. Finally, the aircraft would return to Paris.\n\nThe pilots had each had a busy weekend and did not receive the flight plan until the morning of the flight. They received no verbal details about the flyover or the aerodrome itself.\n\nThe flight plan was that as they approached the airfield, they would extend third-stage flap, lower the landing gear, and line up for level flight at . The captain would slow the aircraft to its minimum flying speed with maximum angle of attack, disable the \"alpha floor\" (the function that would otherwise automatically increase engine thrust when the angle of attack reached 15°) and rely on the first officer to adjust the engine thrust manually to maintain 100 feet. After the first pass, the first officer would then apply TOGA (takeoff, go-around) power and climb steeply before turning back for the second pass.\n\"I've done it twenty times!\" the captain assured his first officer.\n\nThe flyover had been approved by Air France's Air Operations Directorate and Flight Safety Department, and air traffic control and Basel tower had been informed.\n\nHabsheim aerodrome was too small to be listed in the aircraft's flight computer, thereby requiring a visual approach; both pilots were also unfamiliar with the airfield when they began their descent from only from the field. This distance was too short for them to stabilize the aircraft's altitude and speed for the flyover.\n\nAdditionally, the captain was expecting from the flight plan to do the pass over runway 02 ( long, paved) and was preparing for that alignment. But as the aircraft approached the field, the flight deck crew noticed that the spectators were gathered beside runway 34R ( long, grass). This last-minute deviation in the approach further distracted the crew from stabilizing the aircraft's altitude and they quickly dropped to .\n\nFrom higher up, the forest at the end of 34R had looked like a different type of grass. But now that the aircraft was performing its flyover at only 30 feet, the crew noticed the aircraft was lower than the now-identified hazard that they were fast approaching. The cockpit voice recorder recorded the first officer's call:\n\nThe crew applied full power and the pilot attempted to climb. However, the elevators did not respond to the pilot's commands, because the A320's computer system engaged its \"alpha protection\" mode (meant to prevent the aircraft from entering a stall). Less than five seconds later, the turbines began ingesting leaves and branches as the aircraft skimmed the tops of the trees. The combustion chambers clogged and the engines failed. The aircraft fell to the ground.\n\nTraditionally, pilots respect the inherent dangers of flying at low speeds at low altitude, and normally, a pilot would not attempt to fly an aircraft so close to stalling with the engines at flight idle (minimum thrust setting in flight). But in this instance, the pilots involved did not hesitate to fly the aircraft below its normal minimum flying speed because the purpose of the flyover was to demonstrate that the aircraft's computer systems would ensure that lift would always be available regardless of how the pilots handled the controls. The captain's experience of flying the aircraft type at the outer limits of its flight performance envelope may have led to overconfidence and complacency.\n\nDuring the impact, the right wing was torn off, and the spilling fuel ignited immediately. Two fire trucks at the airshow set off and an ambulance followed. Local emergency services were informed by radio communication.\n\nIn the aircraft, many of the passengers were dazed from hitting their heads on the backs of the seats in front of them. Some passengers had difficulty unfastening their seatbelts because they were unfamiliar with the mechanism (it differs from the type used in car seatbelts). The purser went to announce instructions to the passengers but the public address system handset had been torn off. He then tried to open the left-side forward door, which was blocked by trees. The door opened partway, and the emergency escape slide began inflating while it was stuck partly inside the fuselage. The purser, a passenger, and a flight attendant (a guest from another airline) managed to push the door fully open. In the process, the purser and the passenger were thrown out of the fuselage with the slide landing on top of them. The flight attendant then began evacuating the passengers but they soon began to pile up at the bottom of the slide as their route was blocked by trees and branches. The egress of the passengers was temporarily halted while the purser and another flight attendant began clearing the branches. When the evacuation continued, the flight attendant stayed at the door, helping passengers, until she began suffering from smoke inhalation.\n\nBy this time, the fire had entered the right side of the fuselage through the damaged floor section between seat rows 10 and 15. A passenger tried to open the left-side overwing exit. It would not open, which was fortunate as there was by that time a fire on the left wing.\n\nThe panicking passengers now began pushing toward the front of the cabin. A flight attendant standing in the center of the cabin at seat 12D was pushed into the aisle by a severely burnt passenger from 12F. Then, as she was helping another passenger whose clothes were on fire, she was carried forward by the surge of people rushing to escape. After the rush of people had left and the interior was fast becoming toxic, she stood at the front door and called back into the cabin. There was no reply and the thick black smoke made a visual check impossible, so she exited the fuselage. The evacuation from the rear door had been fast and smooth thanks to the instructions from the flight attendants at the rear of the aircraft.\n\nThe medical team from the airshow arrived and began examining the passengers. Ten minutes after the crash, the first of the fire trucks arrived. But because of the forest, only the smaller vehicles were able to reach the wreckage. Apart from the tail section, the aircraft was consumed by fire.\n\nOf 136 people on board, three did not escape. One was a disabled boy in seat 4F who was unable to move. Another was a girl in seat 8C, who was unable to remove her seatbelt (her younger brother had removed his own seatbelt but was carried away by the rush of people before he could help his sister). The third was a woman who had reached the front door and then returned to help the girl. Thirty-four passengers required hospitalization for injuries and burns. Both pilots received minor head injuries and also suffered from smoke inhalation and shock.\n\nThe official investigation was carried out by the \"Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile\" (BEA), the French air accident investigation bureau, in conjunction with the airline and the aircraft manufacturer.\n\nThe flight recorders were found still attached in the unburnt tail section.\nThe Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) continued to operate for about 1.5 seconds after the initial impact. The Digital Flight Data Recorder (DFDR) continued to operate for about one second, then recorded nonsensical data for another two seconds. Interruption of the power occurred forward of the tail section—most probably in the wheel-well area, which was heavily damaged.\n\nThe CVR was read during the night of 26 June at the BEA. The transcription was later clarified with the assistance of the pilots involved. The tape speed was set using the 400 Hz frequency of the aircraft's electrical supply and then synchronised with the air traffic control recordings, which included a time track.\n\nThe DFDR was read the same night by the Brétigny sur Orge Flight Test Centre:\n\nThe investigators found the aircraft to have been airworthy, that its weight and center-of-gravity had been within limits, and that there was no evidence of mechanical or electronic systems failure.\n\nThe flight deck crew believed that the engines had failed to respond to the application of full power.\n\nWith the CFM56-5 engines, four seconds are required to go from 29% N (flight idle) to 67%. It then takes one second more to go from 67 to 83% N. From the engine parameters recorded on the DFDR and spectral analysis of the engine sounds on the CVR, it was determined that five seconds after TOGA power was applied, the N speed of Nº1 engine was 83% while that of Nº2 engine was 84%. Spectral analysis of the engine sounds indicated that 0.6 seconds later, both engines had reached 91% (by this stage, they were starting to ingest vegetation). This response of the engines complied with their certification data.\n\nThe official report from BEA concluded that the probable cause of the accident was a combination of the following:\n\n\nFurthermore, the bureau concluded that if the descent below 100 feet was not deliberate, it may have resulted from a failure by the crew to take proper account of the visual and aural information available to them regarding the elevation \"above ground level\" (AGL) of the aircraft.\n\nThe report further recommended that:\n\nCaptain Asseline, First Officer Mazière, two Air France officials and the president of the flying club sponsoring the air show were all charged with involuntary manslaughter. All five were found guilty. Asseline was initially sentenced to six months in prison along with 12 months of probation. The others were sentenced to probation. During the appeal process, Asseline's sentence was increased to 10 months of imprisonment along with 10 months of probation. Asseline walked free from the court and said he would appeal to France's Supreme Court, the \"Cour de Cassation\". According to French law, Asseline was required to submit himself to the prison system before his case could be taken up by the Supreme Court.\n\nThe TV documentary series \"Mayday\" also reports claims in Season 9 Episode 3 that the flight recorder might have been tampered with and indicated that four seconds had been cut from the tape; this was shown by playing back a control tower tape and comparing it to the remaining tape. The pilot argues that he attempted to apply thrust earlier than indicated in the flight recorder data. When he increased throttle to level off at 100 ft, the engines did not respond. The pilot claims that this indicated a problem with the aeroplane's fly-by-wire system rather than pilot error. After a few seconds he got worried and thought there may have been something like a short circuit in the completely computerized throttle control, and responded by pulling the throttle all the way back then forward again. By that time the aircraft had touched the trees. The show also looks at the theory that it was the computer at fault, not the pilots- because the flight's altitude had fallen below 100 ft, the plane's computers automatically believed the flight was landing and therefore it would not allow any drastic maneuvers from either pilots. When they suddenly asked it for more power and lift, it simply ignored them.\n\nIt was also claimed by the Institute of Police Forensic Evidence and Criminology, based in Lausanne, Switzerland, that the flight data recorders may have been switched and were not the original ones in the aeroplane. Airbus made a detailed rebuttal of these claims in a document published in 1991. Airbus contends that the independent investigator employed by the filmmakers made an error when synchronising the recordings, based on a misunderstanding of how the \"Radio Transmit\" parameter on the flight data recorder functioned.\n\nThe episode \"Blaming the Pilot\" of the TV series \"Survival in the Sky\" featured the accident.\n\nThe Discovery Channel Canada / National Geographic TV series \"Mayday\" featured the accident and subsequent investigation in a season 9 episode titled \"Pilot vs. Plane\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21179809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21179809", "title": "Air and Simple Gifts", "text": "Air and Simple Gifts\n\nAir and Simple Gifts is a quartet composed and arranged by American composer John Williams for the January 20, 2009, inauguration of Barack Obama as President of the United States. The first public performance of the piece was in Washington, D.C., immediately prior to Obama taking the oath of office, when musicians Anthony McGill (clarinet), Itzhak Perlman (violin), Yo-Yo Ma (cello) and Gabriela Montero (piano) synced their performance to a tape they had recorded two days earlier. It was the first classical quartet to be performed at a presidential inauguration. Obama officially became the President while the piece was being performed, at noon, as the United States Constitution stipulates.\n\nAlthough it appeared that the piece was being performed live, it was in fact mimed while a recording made two days before was fed to the television pool and speakers. Yo-Yo Ma told NPR's \"All Things Considered\" that the piano keys had been decoupled from the hammers, and the bows of the stringed instruments had been soaped to silence them. The performers stated that the cold weather could have affected the tuning and durability of the instruments, making a live performance too risky.\n\nWilliams based the piece on the familiar 19th century Shaker hymn \"Simple Gifts\" by Joseph Brackett. The source piece is famous for its appearance in Aaron Copland's ballet \"Appalachian Spring\". Williams chose the selection from Copland, one of Obama's favorite classical composers.\n\nThe piece is slightly under 4.5 minutes. It is structured in roughly three parts. The first section presents the \"Air\" material, consisting of a spare, descending modal melody introduced by violin, pensively explored in duet with cello and piano accompaniment. The entrance of the clarinet, playing the \"Simple Gifts\" theme, signals the beginning of a small set of variations on that melody. The \"Air\" melody at first intermingles with the \"Gifts\" theme, though it is supplanted by increasingly energetic variations. Midway through, the key shifts from A major to D major, in which the piece concludes. A short coda reprising the \"Air\" material follows the most vigorous of the \"Gifts\" variations. The piece concludes with an unusual series of cadences, ending with chord progression D-major followed by B-major, G-minor and finally D-major.\n\nYo-Yo Ma played his Stradivarius cello called the \"Davidov Stradivarius\", made in 1712 during Stradivari's \"golden period\". Itzhak Perlman played his Stradivarius violin called the \"Soil Stradivarius\", made in 1714 during Stradivari's \"golden period\". Gabriela Montero played a Steinway concert grand piano, model D-274. Anthony McGill played a Buffet clarinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "58009475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58009475", "title": "Art Aia-Creatives/In/Residence", "text": "Art Aia-Creatives/In/Residence\n\nArt Aia - Creatives / In / Residence is an international art residency located near the \"comune\" of Sesto al Reghena in the north-eastern Italian region Friuli-Venezia Giulia. It's a place for artistic production and research that focuses on the development of the creative process and facilitates cultural exchange across borders.\n\nArt Aia - Creatives / In / Residence is located three kilometers from Sesto al Reghena, in the locality of \"Banduzzo\" (which in local dialect means \"Place Banned\") and from the mid-nineteenth century has been an agricultural center of the Morassutti Family.\n\nIn the garden of Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence stands the nineteenth century Church of St. Anthony of Padua, erected by the owners of these lands and it contains the contemporary altar-piece which represents Saint John the Baptist and Saint Antony of Padua.\n\nArt Aia - Creatives / In / Residence currently promotes cultural and artistic activities at a local and international level. In the past few years several teaching artists have been collaborating with the venue like American Master Drama Teacher John Strasberg, son of Lee Strasberg, who held two International acting workshops as well as Italo-Palestinian artist who tought a photography masterclass in 2014. Several artist collectives have also been hosted in the center like Marsala 11 and the Institut für Alles Mögliche of Berlin among others.\n\nArt Aia Creatives / In / Residence has various working spaces at the disposal of the visiting artists. Spacious rooms and outdoor spaces are available for production, exhibiting, exchange and leisure, including the Art Aia guest house, the Art Aia studio, the garden, the multi purpose and cross-diciplinary art centre (in progress), the Art Aia rehearsal space, the fields and the vineyard where installations and performances can be realised.\n\n\nEvery summer, Art Aia-Creatives / In / Residence, offers a cross-disciplinary Artist in Residence program open to international artists that culminates with an exhibiting event which is generally open to the local public.\n\nArts Territory Exchange Residency in Sustainable Practice\n\nSince 2018, Art Aia - Creatives / In / Residence collaborates with the Arts Territory Exchange in the Residency in Sustainable Practice which is an off-shoot programme that has been formed in collaboration with the Centre for Sustainable Practice in the Arts (CSPA). Two artists per year have the opportunity to develop their practices in relation to ideas of ecology and sustainability by attending a one week residency at the Italian art center.\n\nIn 2016 was founded in Berlin, Art Aia-La Dolce Berlin, which is a project space in the turkish area of Wedding that hosts artists from all over the world and give them an opportunity to showcase their work. Art Aia -La Dolce Berlin promotes Friulian wine and food as well and it is the German location of Art Aia.\n\n"}
{"id": "8886656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8886656", "title": "Bamboo cannon", "text": "Bamboo cannon\n\nA bamboo cannon (, Jawi: مريام بولوه ; ; , Bahasa Indonesia: \"meriam bambu\", Javanese: \"mercon bumbung\") is a type of home-made firecracker which is popular during the Hari Raya festive season in Malaysia, and during New Year's Eve celebrations in the Philippines. Like other fireworks, bamboo cannons are illegal as stated in Malaysian Explosive Act 1957; more Malay children turn to the more dangerous bamboo cannon as an alternative to commercial firecrackers which were banned by the government.\n\nIn Indonesia bamboo cannon is traditional game played by children. It was very popular in the 1990s. Nowadays, it's still played by children in rural areas, where the material (bamboo) is widely available. In West Kalimantan, on the banks of the Kapuas river, there are Bamboo Cannon Festivals, which are celebrated a week before Idul Fitri. The biggest bamboo cannon in Indonesia broke records of Indonesian World Record Museum (MURI) in 2007 and again 2009.\n\nA typical bamboo cannon consists of a large bamboo node or tube containing some water to which a little calcium carbide is added. The carbide reacts immediately with the water releasing acetylene gas, which has the widest range of explosive limit of any common chemical and a very low ignition energy. A sharp report is produced when a flame is introduced into the bamboo chamber. However, the low density of the acetylene/air mixture is such that the total combustion energy is quite low and weak containers such as bamboo or even glass rarely shatter. Adding too much carbide does not increase the energy of the explosion but instead weakens it due to high fuel to air ratio. After the shot, fresh air is needed in the tube in order to have another explosion after more carbide is added.\n\nThe operating principle also works with other combustible fuels besides acetylene, but since most others have narrower explosive limits, the effect is not as reliable. Common examples are solvent-containing aerosol consumer products such as spray paint or hairspray.\n\nLess-volatile fuels can also work, with skill, such as 200ml of hot kerosene, poured into a small hole near the breech of the cannon. A lighting stick is used to ignite the fumes and fire the cannon, then fresh air is blown into the small hole and the cannon fired again. The bamboo used for this is usually around 4 to 6 inches in diameter and 4 to 5 feet long.\n\nIn the Philippine city of Kidapawan, North Cotabato, the \"Kanyóng Kawayan Festival\" is held from 14-20 December to promote safer noisemaking alternatives during the Christmas season. Empty powdered milk cans are common projectiles used in the city-wide contest held during the event.\n\nA variant form, known as \"bong-bong\", is used by the people of Mangaldan, Pangasinan, but with water and motor oil as the fuel.\n\nA Filipino derivative made from PVC piping or segmented joined tin cans is colloquially known as a \"boga\". It is operated in much the same way as a bamboo cannon, but is held in the manner of a rocket launcher. Originating in the province of Cavite, use of the device has been banned by the Philippine government since 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "4144084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144084", "title": "Bids for the 2014 Winter Olympics", "text": "Bids for the 2014 Winter Olympics\n\nSeven applicant cities presented bids to host the 2014 Winter Olympics and Paralympics (formally known as \"XXII Olympic Winter Games\" and \"XI Paralympic Winter Games\") to the International Olympic Committee (IOC). The IOC Executive Board shortlisted three cities—Sochi, Russia; Salzburg, Austria; and Pyeongchang, South Korea—with Sochi winning the IOC's July 2007 final vote.\n\nThe three selected candidates, chosen on 22 June 2006, delivered to the IOC their Candidature Files (known as \"bid books\") on 10 January 2007. From February to April 2007, an ad hoc committee performed visits to the candidate cities and prepared an evaluation report which was released one month before the election.\n\nThe election by exhaustive ballot took place on 4 July 2007 in Guatemala City during the 119th IOC Session; Sochi beat out Pyeongchang by four votes in the second round of voting to win the rights to host after Salzburg had been eliminated in the first round.\n\nBidding cities had to be approved by their national Olympic committees, which have the right to choose between several cities in their respective countries. The cities had to submit their applications to the IOC by 28 July 2005. The cities were asked to complete a questionnaire, which they had to submit to the IOC by 1 February 2006. An IOC Working Group then studied their answers in order to help the executive board members select the cities which became candidate cities and went through to the second phase of the process. The executive board of IOC accepted three bids on 22 June 2006.\n\nThe candidate cities were invited to submit their candidature file, which is a detailed description of their Olympic plans, and to prepare for a visit by the IOC Evaluation Commission. This commission undertook a technical analysis of each candidature and then produced a report, which was to be published one month before the host city election and sent to the IOC members for study. The candidature files were submitted on 10 January 2007. The IOC Evaluation Committee visited the candidate cities in February–March 2007 and published its report on 4 June.\n\nDuring the 119th IOC Session on 4 July 2007 in Guatemala City, Salzburg received 25 votes (and was relegated), Pyeongchang received 36 votes, and Sochi received 34 votes in the first round of the IOC voting procedure. In the second (and final) round, Pyeongchang received 47 votes, but Sochi received 51 votes and was therefore chosen as the host of the 2014 Olympics.\n\nEach cell of the table provides a minimum and a maximum figure obtained by the applicant city on the specific criteria. These figures are to be compared to a benchmark which has been set at 6.\n\nAll three cities suggested hosting the Games between February 7–23, 2014. The Paralympics will be held from March 7–16.\n\nPyeongchang was unanimously selected over Muju by the Korean Olympic Committee in December 2004, and was the first city to submit its bid to the International Olympic Committee. The bid launched a full-scale campaign after losing the 2010 race by a mere three votes to Vancouver. The 2014 project concentrated all venues within one hour of Pyeongchang, and called for huge sums of investment into new infrastructure and sporting venues, including the new Alpensia Resort. Moreover, the sporting event was touted as promoting a message of peace and harmony in the divided country.\n\nSince 2003, the region had been selected to host the 2009 Snowboard World Championships, the 2009 Biathlon World Championships and the 2009 World Women's Curling Championship, and aimed to become the winter sports hub of Asia. Although an IOC evaluation team complimented the area on levels of public support, government support, and infrastructure in February 2007, the bid was also criticized because Pyeongchang was not a popular tourist destination, the venue relied heavily on artificial snow due to a dry winter climate, most slopes were relatively short, and local amenities were poorly developed. Pyeongchang was eventually chosen to host the 2018 Winter Olympics.\n\nThe Austrian city was eliminated in the first round in voting during the 2010 competition. The 2014 bid was more compact than the 2010 project due to the elimination of the Kitzbühel, St. Johann and Ramsau venues. The venue for bobsled, skeleton and luge, Schönau am Königssee, was located in Germany.\n\nThe Russian Black Sea resort bid for the Winter Olympics for the second time after failing to make the shortlist in 2002. The primary venue for outdoor sports was the ski resort in Krasnaya Polyana, designed by the same company who worked on ski slopes for the 2010 Winter Olympics, and scheduled to open in 2007. Sochi would host the indoor winter sports. The high number of hotel rooms and strong public and political support from the city were expected to strengthen the bid's chances.\n\n\"Note: the cities are listed in the presentation order determined by draw during the IOC Executive Board meeting of 26 October 2005.\"\n\nThe following applicant cities have been approved by their National Olympic Committees and submitted their applications to the IOC, but were not selected as candidates by the executive board. They all sent their respective questionnaire answers by 1 February 2006. These documents have been made public in the following days.\n\n\"Note: the cities are listed in the presentation order determined by draw during the IOC Executive Board meeting of 26 October 2005.\"\n\n\"*Airports not included\"\n\n\"Note: the cities are listed in the presentation order defined by the IOC during its Executive Board of 26 October 2005.\"\n\nThese venues are from the applicant cities' mini bid books. Note that the selected candidate cities, and in particular Sochi, have changed their venues plan afterwards in the final proposal to the IOC.\n\nThe following cities expressed interest in bidding but withdrew their 2014 Winter Olympics bids or decided not to bid.\n\nFour years earlier, Pyeongchang led the first ballot, but was defeated in the second one, then losing to Vancouver, British Columbia. Both votes although four years apart bear a remarkable similarity.\n\nThere were two rounds of voting at the session that decided which city would host the games. In the first round, Pyeongchang received 36 votes while Sochi received 34 votes. Salzburg was eliminated carrying only 25 votes. In the second round of voting Pyeongchang garnered 47 votes but Sochi carried most of the votes originally cast for Salzburg and garnered 51 votes, winning the bid for the 2014 Winter Olympics.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31804081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31804081", "title": "Brasileiro de Marcas", "text": "Brasileiro de Marcas\n\nThe Brasileiro de Marcas (Brazilian Brands) is a touring car racing series based in Brazil.\n\nFrom 2011 onwards, this new Brasileiro de Marcas continued the former Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos (Brazilian Championship of Brands and Drivers). which had been discontinued after 2009.\n\nThe Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos (Brazilian Championship of Brand and Drivers) was a touring car racing based in Brazil. It had two incarnations, the first one between 1983 and 1994, and the second one between 2004 and 2009.\n\nStart in 1983 the Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos was a strong touring car racing championship, with direct involvement of the manufactures, had its last year of competition in 1994, the champions were Egon Herzfield and Vicente Daudt, who run with the Ford Escort. At the end of 1994 season, the promise was that we would have for the 1995 season imported cars, utilize in some championships as; BTCC or DTM, but this promise was not fulfilled and the championship was declared ended.\n\nAfter ten years, in 2004 that announced the return of the championship with new rules and cars, organized for Toninho de Souza and Brazilian Confederation of Auto Racing (CBA), the championship not obtained success and was ended in 2009.\n\nIn 2011 was announced the return of the championship with Brasileiro de Marcas name and completely reworked.The return of the championship in 2011, organized by Vicar and participation by several teams and drivers of Stock Car Brasil, has with object, return of disputes by manufacturers in Brazil. Chevrolet, Ford and Honda officially entering and Toyota partly. Thiago Camilo won the title, Chevrolet won the Manufactures' championship and Full Time Sports the Teams' championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34278240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34278240", "title": "BriSCA Formula 1 Stock Cars World Championship", "text": "BriSCA Formula 1 Stock Cars World Championship\n\nThe World Championship is an annual competition started in 1955 for BriSCA Formula 1 Stock Cars. It is the premier championship of the formula and the winner is granted the honour of racing with a gold roof and wing until the next World Final, and if desired they can race under number 1.\n\nThe World Final is usually held in September. The host tracks, all of which are based in the UK, are decided by the BriSCA promoters.\n\nThe grid for the World Final is mostly composed of drivers from the UK who are chosen through a series of qualifying rounds and two World Championship Semi-Finals. Drivers who fail to progress from the World Semi-Finals may race again in a Consolation Semi-Final to choose two more entrants, and the reigning World Champion is entitled to start at the rear of the grid if they have not already qualified. The UK drivers are joined by stock car drivers from the Netherlands, and by invited drivers in the nearest equivalent motorsport formulas from other countries often including Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and the USA.\n\nThe most successful driver in World Final races is John Lund, who has won eight. Other notable multiple winners include Stuart Smith (six), Andy Smith (five), Peter Falding (four), Johnny Brise, Dave Chisholm and Frankie Wainman Junior (three).\n\nThere were two races promoted as the World Championship in 1955, at Harringay and Belle Vue.\n\nAll drivers are British, except where marked.\n\n"}
{"id": "11014528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11014528", "title": "Byzantine–Sasanian wars", "text": "Byzantine–Sasanian wars\n\nThe Byzantine–Sasanian wars, also known as the Irano-Byzantine wars refers to a series of conflicts between the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire and the Sassanian Empire of Persia. A continuation of the Roman–Persian Wars, the conflict involved several smaller campaigns and peace treaties lasting for years at a time.\n\nThe Roman Empire had reached its greatest extent under the Emperor Trajan. However, before Trajan, the Emperor Augustus set about stabilizing the frontiers of the Empire. As a result, the Romans were more interested in simply defending their territory and consolidating the Empire rather than in attempting to conquer Persia.\nw\nThe Romans employed the best infantry of the time: heavily armed and armored soldiers plus numerous auxiliaries. By the 4th century A.D., armor was less often used, and by the 5th century, Germanic mercenaries were employed. The Romans continued to use heavy infantry of the legionary type, but these were less mobile than the Persian horse archers, although more effective in attrition warfare. From the 3rd century heavy cataphract cavalry wearing full horse and rider armor became an increasingly important component of Roman armies.\n\nThe Sasanian dynasty had a more or less secure northern and eastern border due to the mountainous terrain of the Caucasus, Middle Asia and Afghanistan. The Western border was determined by Sassanid control of Mesopotamia. Due to the flat nature of the land, it was easy to overrun and difficult to defend. With these natural boundaries, the Sasanian Persians had only Westward to expand. The Sasanians were becoming as efficient in siege warfare as the Romans, capturing and sacking a number of cities as part of a larger goal of exacting tribute and land from the Romans. However, the nature of the warfare was one of attrition with heavy casualties on both sides. As a result, little land was exchanged between the two powers; rather, vassal states and tribute would have been demanded.\n\nThe Sassanid Persians employed cavalry archers and heavy cataphracts to counter the heavy Roman infantry. In battle, these archers had varying degrees of effect. Soon the Romans began to adopt similar methods of warfare.\n\nFollowing Trajan's successful conquest of Mesopotamia in the 2nd century, the Parthian Empire began to decline. Ctesiphon was overrun by the Romans but the lack of any permanent establishment meant that the Sassanid dynasty filled the power vacuum in the region and started a new Persian Empire in 224. The Sasanians were a more aggressive enemy than their Parthian predecessors and consequently, the Romans found themselves fighting a more dangerous Eastern opponent at a time when the Roman Empire was weakening due to the civil chaos arising from the death of the Roman Emperor Commodus.\n\nPersian-Roman conflict was renewed shortly after the overthrowing of the Parthian rule and the foundation of the Sasanian empire by Ardashir I (226–241), who raided in Mesopotamia and Syria in 230, demanding the restitution of the Achaemenid possessions in Europe. After fruitless negotiations, Alexander Severus set out against Ardashir in 232; one column of his army marched successfully into Armenia, while two other columns operated to the south and failed, mostly on account of physical hardship. In any case Ardashir was repulsed and Alexander Severus celebrated a triumph in Rome. In 238–240, towards the end of his reign, Ardashir attacked again, taking several cities in Syria and Mesopotamia, including Carrhae, Nisibis and Hatra.\n\nThe struggle resumed and intensified under Ardashir's successor Shapur I; he invaded Mesopotamia but his forces were defeated at a battle near Resaena in 243; Carrhae and Nisibis were retaken by the Romans. Encouraged by this success, the emperor Gordian III advanced down the Euphrates but was defeated near Ctesiphon in the Battle of Misiche in 244. Gordian either died in the battle or was murdered by his own men; Philip became emperor, and paid 500,000 denarii to the Persians.\n\nIn the early 250s, Philip was involved in a struggle over the control of Armenia. Shapur had the Armenian king murdered, and re-opened hostilities against Rome; he defeated the Roman troops at the Battle of Barbalissos, and then probably took and plundered Antioch. Some time between 258 and 260, Shapur captured the emperor Valerian after crushing his army at the Battle of Edessa, but his subsequent advance into Anatolia ended, when Odaenathus, the ruler of Palmyra, attacked detachments of the Persians, causing them to retreat to their homeland.\n\nIn 275 and 282 Aurelian and Probus respectively planned to invade Persia, but they were both murdered before they were able to fulfill their plans. In 283 the emperor Carus launched a successful invasion of Persia, sacking its capital, Ctesiphon; they would probably have extended their conquests, if Carus had not died in December of the same year. After a brief period of peace during Diocletian's early reign, Narseh renewed hostilities with the Romans invading Armenia, and defeated Galerius not far from Carrhae in 296 or 297. However, in 298 Galerius defeated Narseh at the Battle of Satala, sacked the capital Ctesiphon and captured the Persian treasury and royal harem. The Roman victory was the most decisive for many decades: many cities east of the Tigris were given to the Romans including Tigranokert, Saird, Martyropolis, Balalesa, Moxos, Daudia, and Arzan. Also, control of Armenia was given to the Romans.\n\nThe arrangements of 299 proved long-lasting. It was Shapur II who broke the long peace between the two empires in mid 330s, and mounted a series of offensives against the Romans with little lasting effect. Shapur launched a new campaign in 359, successfully laying siege to Amida, and provoked a major offensive in 363 by the Roman Emperor Julian. Despite victory at the Battle of Ctesiphon, Julian was unable to capture the fortified city itself. He was killed the same year at the Battle of Samarra, during a difficult retreat along the Tigris. His successor Jovian found his army in a disadvantageous position, and was forced to hand over the former Roman possessions east of the Tigris, as well as Nisiris and Singara; Armenia was also abandoned by the Romans, and was soon conquered by Shapur.\n\nIn 383 or 384 Armenia again became a bone of contention between the Roman and the Sasanian empires, but hostilities did not occur. With both empires preoccupied by barbarian threats from the north, a largely peaceful period followed, interrupted only by two brief wars, the first in 421–422 after Bahram V persecuted high-ranking Persian officials who had converted to Christianity, and the second in 440, when Yazdegerd II raided Roman Armenia.\n\nThe Anastasian War ended the longest period of peace the two powers ever enjoyed. It broke out when the Roman emperor Anastasius I refused to provide financial support to the Persian king, Kavadh I, who tried to gain the money by force. In 502 Kavadh quickly captured the unprepared city of Theodosiopolis, and then besieged the fortress-city of Amida through the autumn and winter (502–503). The siege of the city proved to be a far more difficult enterprise than Kavadh expected; the defenders repelled the Persian assaults for three months before being defeated. In 503 the Romans attempted an ultimately unsuccessful siege of the Persian-held Amida while Kavadh invaded Osroene, and laid siege to Edessa with the same results.\n\nFinally in 504, the Romans gained the upper hand with the renewed investment of Amida, leading to the hand-over of the city. That year an armistice was agreed to as a result of an invasion of Armenia by the Huns from the Caucasus. Negotiations between the two powers took place, but such was their distrust that in 506 the Romans, suspecting treachery, seized the Persian officials. Once released, the Persians preferred to stay in Nisibis. In November, 506, a treaty was finally agreed upon, but little is known of what the terms of the treaty were. Procopius states that peace was agreed for seven years, and it is likely that some payments was made to the Persians.\n\nIn 505 Anastasius ordered the building of a great fortified city at Dara. The dilapidated fortifications were also upgraded at Edessa, Batnac and Amida. Although no further large-scale conflict took place during Anastasius' reign, tensions continued, especially while work continued at Dara. This construction project was to become a key component of the Roman defenses, and also a lasting source of controversy with the Persians, who complained that it violated the treaty of 422, by which both empires had agreed not to establish new fortifications in the frontier zone. Anastasius, however, pursued the project, and the walls were completed by 507/508.\n\nIn 524/525 Kavadh proposed to Justin I to adopt his son, Khosrau. The proposal was initially greeted with enthusiasm by the Roman emperor and his nephew, Justinian, but Justin's \"quaestor\", Proculus, opposed the move. Despite the final breakdown of the negotiations, it was not until 530 that full-scale warfare on the main eastern frontier broke out. In the intervening years, the two sides preferred to wage war by proxy, through Arab allies in the south and Huns in the north. Tensions between the two powers were further heightened by the defection of the Iberian king Gourgen to the Romans: in 524/525 the Iberians rose in revolt against Persia, following the example of the neighboring Christian kingdom of Lazica, and the Romans recruited Huns from the north of the Caucasus to assist them.\n\nBy 526–527, overt fighting between the two empires had broken out in the Transcaucasus region and upper Mesopotamia. At the same time, the Persians continued to exert pressure on the Romans to obtain funds from them. The early years of war favored the Persians: by 527 the Iberian revolt had been crushed, a Roman offensive against Nisibis and Thebetha in that year was unsuccessful and forces trying to fortify Thannuris and Melabasa were prevented from doing so by Persian attacks. Attempting to remedy the deficiencies revealed by these Persian successes, the new Roman emperor, Justinian I, reorganized the eastern armies. In 528 Belisarius tried unsuccessfully to protect Roman workers in Thannuris, undertaking the construction of a fort right on the frontier. Damaging raids on Syria by the Lakhmids in 529 encouraged Justinian to strengthen his own Arab allies, helping the Ghassanid leader Al-Harith ibn Jabalah turn a loose coalition into a coherent kingdom.\nIn 530 the Romans defeated the Persian troops at Dara and Satala. In 531 Belisarius was defeated by Persian and Lakhmid forces at the Battle of Callinicum, but, during the summer of the same year, the Romans captured some forts in Armenia, and effectively repulsed the Persian offensive. Immediately after the Roman failure at Callinicum, which resulted in the dismissal of Belisarius, unsuccessful negotiations between Justinian's envoy, Hermogenes, and Kavadh took place. Justinian then took steps to bolster the Roman position, trying, at the same time, to engage Kavadh diplomatically. In spring 532 negotiations re-opened between the Roman envoys and the new Persian king, Khosrau I, who needed to secure his own position. The two sides finally came to an agreement, and the Eternal Peace, which lasted less than eight years, was signed in September 532. Both powers agreed to return all occupied territories and the Romans to make a one-off payment of 110 \"centenaria\" (11,000 lbs of gold). The Romans recovered the Lazic forts, and Iberia remained in Persian hands, but the Iberians who had left their country were allowed to either remain in Roman territory or return to their native land.\n\nThe successful campaigns of Belisarius in the west encouraged the Persians to return to war, both taking advantage of Roman preoccupation elsewhere and seeking to check the expansion of Roman territory and resources. In 539 the resumption of hostilities was foreshadowed by a Lakhmid raid led by al-Mundhir IV, which was defeated by the Ghassanids under al-Harith ibn Jabalah. In 540, the Persians broke the \"Treaty of Eternal Peace\" and Khosrau I invaded Syria, destroying the great city of Antioch and deporting its population to Weh Antiok Khosrow in Persia; as he withdrew, he extorted large sums of money from the cities of Syria and Mesopotamia and systematically looted the key cities. In 541 he invaded Lazica in the north.\n\nBelisarius was quickly recalled by Justinian to the East to deal with the Persian threat, while the Ostrogoths in Italy, who were in touch with the Persian King, launched a counter-attack under Totila. Belisarius took the field and waged an inconclusive campaign against Nisibis in 541. In the same year Lazica switched its allegiance to Persia and Khosrau led an army to secure the kingdom. In 542 Khosrau launched another offensive in Mesopotamia, and unsuccessfully attempted to capture Sergiopolis. He soon withdrew in the face of an army under Belisarius, en route sacking the city of Callinicum. Attacks on a number of Roman cities were repulsed and the Persian general Mihr-Mihroe was defeated and captured at Dara by John Troglita.\n\nIn 543, the Romans fielded a force of 30,000 troops commanded by the \"magister militum\" of the East, Martin, for an invasion of Persian-controlled Armenia. They launched an offensive against Dvin, but were defeated by a small Persian force at Anglon. In 544 Khosrau besieged Edessa without success and was eventually bought off by the defenders. The Edessenes paid five \"centenaria\" to Khosrau, and the Persians departed after nearly two months. In the wake of the Persian retreat, two Roman envoys, the newly appointed magister militum, Constantinus, and Sergius proceeded to Ctesiphon to arrange a truce with Khosrau. A five-year truce was agreed in 545, secured by Roman payments to the Persians.\n\nIn early 548 AD, king Gubaz of Lazica, having found Persian protection oppressive, asked Justinian to restore the Roman protectorate. The emperor seized the chance, and in 548/549 AD combined Roman and Lazic forces under Gubaz and the magister militum of Armenia Dagistheus won a series of victories against Persian armies under Mihr-Mihroe and Khorianes, but failed in repeated attempts to take the fort of Petra (present-day Tsikhisdziri, north of Batumi). In 551 AD, general Bassas who replaced Dagistheus put Abasgia and the rest of Lazica under control, and finally subjected Petra, demolishing its fortifications.\n\nIn the same year, however, a Persian army under Mihr-Mihroe but was defeated with heavy losses. That year the truce which had been established in 545 AD was renewed outside Lazica for a further five years, with the Romans paying 2,000 lbs of gold each year. The Romans failed to completely expel the Sasanian from Lazica, and in 554 AD Mihr-Mihroe launched a new attack, and captured the fortress of Telephis, which was commanded by general Martin.\n\nIn 557 AD Khusro, who had now to deal with the White Huns, dispatched his envoy Izedh Gushnap to Constantinople and renewed the truce, this time without excluding Lazica, where they kept only a toehold; negotiations continued for a definite peace treaty. Finally, in 561 AD, Justinian's envoy, Peter the Patrician, and Izedh Gushnap put together a 50-year peace. The Persians agreed to evacuate Lazica, and received an annual subsidy of 30,000 \"nomismata\" annually. Both sides agreed not to build new fortifications near the frontier and to ease restrictions on diplomacy and trade between the two empires.\n\nThe war began, when the Armenians revolted against Sasanian rule in early 572 AD. Justin II took them under his protection, and sent his nephew, Marcian, against the Persians. Roman troops raided Arzanene, and invaded Persian Mesopotamia, defeating its local forces. Marcian's sudden dismissal, however, and the arrival of troops under Khosrau resulted in the ravaging of Syria, the failure of the Roman siege of Nisibis, and the fall of Dara. At a cost of 45,000 \"solidi\" a one-year truce (later in the year extended to five years) was arranged, though the Persians still wanted to restore control in Armenia.\n\nIn 576 AD Khosrau I attempted to combine aggression in Armenia with discussion of a permanent peace. He failed however to take Theodosiopolis, and after a confrontation near Melitene the Persian royal baggage was captured; there were severe Persian losses either in set battle or during a disorganized fleet over the Euphrates. The Romans exploited Persian disarray by invading deep into Persian territory, raiding Atropatene. Persian confidence revived, when Tamkhusro defeated Justinian in Persian Armenia, where Roman actions had alienated local inhabitants. In the spring of 578 AD the Persians raided Byzantine Mesopotamia; the Roman general Maurice retaliated by invading Arzanene; he also took and garrisoned the stronghold of Aphumon,and sacked Singara in Persian Mesopotamia. Khosrau I died early the next year, defeated after so many victories.\n\nIn 580, Hormizd IV abolished the Caucasian Iberian monarchy, and turned Iberia into a Persian province ruled by a \"marzpan\" (governor). During the 580s the war continued in inconclusive fashion, with victories on both sides. In 582 AD Maurice defeated Tamkhusro, who was killed, but the Roman general did not follow up his victory; he had to hurry to Constantinople to pursue his imperial ambitions. In 589 AD the Persians achieved a last success, capturing Martyropolis through treachery, but in the same year the stalemate was shattered when the Persian general Bahram Chobin, having been dismissed and humiliated by Hormizd IV, raised a rebellion. Hormizd was overthrown in a palace coup in 590 AD and replaced by his son Khosrau II, but Bahram pressed on with his revolt regardless and the defeated Khosrau was soon forced to flee for safety to Roman territory, while Bahram took the throne as Bahram VI. With support from Maurice, Khosrau raised a rebellion against Bahram, and in 591 AD the combined forces of his supporters and the Romans defeated Bahram, restoring Khosrau II to power and bringing the war to an end. In exchange for their help, Khosrau not only returned Dara and Martyropolis but also agreed to cede the western half of Iberia and more than half of Persian Armenia to the Romans.\n\nDuring Maurice's Balkan campaigns, he and his family were murdered by Phocas in November 602 after a mutiny. Khosrau II seized this opportunity to attack the Roman Empire and reconquer the Roman province of Mesopotamia. The war initially went the Persians' way, partly because of Phocas' brutal repression and the succession crisis that ensued as the general Heraclius sent his nephew Nicetas to attack Egypt, enabling his son Heraclius the younger to claim the throne in 610. Phocas, an unpopular ruler who is invariably described in Byzantine sources as a \"tyrant\", was eventually deposed by Heraclius, who sailed to Constantinople from Carthage with an icon affixed to the prow of his ship.\nBy this time the Persians had conquered Mesopotamia and the Caucasus, and in 611 they overran Syria and entered Anatolia. A major counter-attack led by Heraclius two years later was decisively defeated outside Antioch by Shahrbaraz and Shahin and the Roman position collapsed; the Persians devastated parts of Asia Minor, and captured Chalcedon on the Bosporus. Over the following decade the Persians were able to conquer Palestine and Egypt (by mid-621 the whole province was in their hands) and to devastate Anatolia, while the Avars and Slavs took advantage of the situation to overrun the Balkans, bringing the Roman Empire to the brink of destruction. The Persians continued with their successful offensive, capturing Ancyra, an important military base in central Anatolia, in 620 or 622. Rhodes and several other islands in the eastern Aegean fell in 622/3, threatening a naval assault on Constantinople. Such was the despair in Constantinople that Heraclius considered moving the government to Carthage in Africa.\n\nDuring these years, Heraclius strove to rebuild his army, slashing non-military expenditure, devaluing the currency and melting down Church plate, with the backing of Patriarch Sergius, to raise the necessary funds to continue the war.\nOn April 5 622, Heraclius left Constantinople, entrusting the city to Sergius and general Bonus as regents of his son. He assembled his forces in Asia Minor, probably in Bithynia, and, after he revived their broken morale, he launched a new counter-offensive, which took on the character of a holy war; an acheiropoietos image of Christ was carried as a military standard. The Roman army proceeded to Armenia, inflicted a defeat on an army led by a Persian-allied Arab chief, and then won a victory over the Persians under Shahrbaraz. On 25 March 624, Heraclius again left Constantinople, with his wife Martina and his two children; after he celebrated Easter in Nicomedia on April 15, he campaigned in the Caucasus, winning a series of victories in Azerbaijan and Armenia against Khosrau and his generals Shahrbaraz, Shahin and Shahraplakan. In 626 the Avars, Slavs and a Persian army commanded by Shahrbaraz besieged Constantinople, but the it ended in failure (the victory was attributed to the icons of the Virgin which were led in procession by Sergius about the walls of the city), while a second Persian army under Shahin suffered another crushing defeat at the hands of Heraclius' brother Theodore.\n\nWith the Persian war effort disintegrating, Heraclius was able to bring the Gokturks of the Western Turkic Khaganate into the war against the Sasanian in the Caucasus (see Third Perso-Turkic War). Late in 627 he launched a winter offensive into Mesopotamia, where, despite the desertion of his Turkish allies, he defeated the Persians under Rhahzadh at the Battle of Nineveh. Continuing south along the Tigris, he sacked Khosrau's great palace at Dastagird and was only prevented from attacking Ctesiphon by the destruction of the bridges on the Nahrawan Canal. Discredited by this series of disasters, Khosrau was overthrown and killed in a coup led by his son Kavadh II, who at once sued for peace, agreeing to withdraw from all occupied territories. In 629 Heraclius restored the True Cross to Jerusalem in a majestic ceremony.\n\nThe devastating impact of this last war, added to the cumulative effects of a century of almost continuous conflict, left both empires crippled. When Kavadh II died only months after coming to the throne, Persia was plunged into several years of dynastic turmoil and civil war. The Sasanians were further weakened by economic decline, heavy taxation from Khosrau II's campaigns, religious unrest, rigid social stratification, and the increasing power of the provincial landholders. The Roman Empire was even more severely affected, with its financial reserves exhausted by the war, the Balkans now largely in the hands of the Slavs, Anatolia devastated by repeated Persian invasions, and the empire's hold on Syria, Mesopotamia, Palestine and Egypt loosened by many years of Persian occupation. Neither empire was given any chance to recover, as within a few years they were struck by the onslaught of the Arabs, newly united by Islam. The Sasanian Empire rapidly succumbed to these attacks and was completely destroyed. During the Byzantine-Arab Wars, the exhausted Roman Empire's recently regained southern provinces were also lost during the Muslim conquest of Syria, Egypt and North Africa, reducing the empire to a territorial rump consisting of Anatolia and a scatter of islands and footholds in the Balkans and Italy. These remaining lands were thoroughly impoverished by frequent attacks, marking the transition from classical urban civilization to a more rural, medieval form of society. However, unlike Persia the Roman Empire (in its medieval form usually termed the Byzantine Empire) ultimately survived the Arab assault, holding onto its residual territories and repulsing two Arab sieges of its capital Constantinople in 674 and 718.\n\n"}
{"id": "441527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441527", "title": "CodeCon", "text": "CodeCon\n\nCodeCon was an annual conference for software hackers and technology enthusiasts, held every year between 2002 and 2009. CodeCon was not intended to be a computer security conference, but a conference with a focus on software developers doing presentations of technologies, as computer programs, rather than products.\n\nBram Cohen and Len Sassaman are credited with devising and organizing the first conference at the DNA Lounge in San Francisco, California in 2002. The conference was the result of discussion on building a small, programmer-focused convention. Some projects discussed at the first CodeCon include BitTorrent and Peek-a-Booty. There were also panel discussions, including one about the legality of hacking, which focused on the actions of the MPAA and RIAA against peer-to-peer file sharing networks.\n\nLater conferences have included discussions on P2P, and the Helios voting system.\n\nSassaman proposed to his then-girlfriend Meredith L. Patterson during the Q&A after her presentation at the 2006 CodeCon; the two were later married.\n\nBloomberg's CodeCon programming contest platform and events.\n\nAn abbreviation for Re/code's Code Conference.\n"}
{"id": "53395686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53395686", "title": "David Monn", "text": "David Monn\n\nDavid Monn is an American event planner, interior designer, author, and artist. He is the founder and CEO of David Monn, LLC, an event production firm based in New York City. As part of the firm, Monn has been responsible for organizing and producing a variety of prominent events at locations like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Public Library, Guggenheim Museum, among others.\n\nMonn designed a White House State Dinner for former United States President Barack Obama. Monn's most recent book, \"David Monn: The Art of Celebrating\", was released in November 2016.\n\nMonn was born and raised in Fayetteville, Pennsylvania as one of six children. As a child, he showed an early interest in fashion design with hopes of attending the Parsons School of Design. In 1981 at age 18, Monn earned a job at Butte Knit, a clothing factory in his town that was a part of the Jonathan Logan Corporation. This job soon led him to New York City where he rented a studio apartment near Mindy Grossman's. While in New York, Monn took up interior decorating for himself and his friends (including Grossman).\n\nPrior to beginning his event and interior design career, Monn worked in the jewelry business for 12 years. In 2003, Gayfryd Steinberg hired Monn as the event planner and designer for the Library Lions Gala at the New York Public Library's main campus. Since then, Monn has been designing events for a wide variety of occasions. In 2004, he managed the festivities for the grand opening of the Time Warner Center. The following year, Monn was responsible for the design of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute Gala. By 2007, his clients included the Guggenheim Museum, LVMH, and the Metropolitan Opera (among others). In November 2007, Monn designed the Frank Gehry-inspired Guggenheim International Gala at Pier 40. He also designed the 100th anniversary celebration for the Plaza Hotel that year.\n\nIn May 2010, Monn designed the White House State Dinner honoring then Mexican President Felipe Calderón. In November 2016, he released his book, \"David Monn: The Art of Celebrating\", which contains 360 pages of images and text about events he has planned and designed. The book's release date was marked with a party at the New York Public Library's main campus. In January 2017, Monn designed an opening candlelight dinner for the inauguration festivities of President Donald Trump.\n\n"}
{"id": "26422472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26422472", "title": "Dunsinane (play)", "text": "Dunsinane (play)\n\nDunsinane is a 2010 play by David Greig. It premiered in a Royal Shakespeare Company production at the Hampstead Theatre from 10 February to 6 March 2010, directed by RSC Associate Director Roxana Silbert and with leads including Siobhan Redmond and Jonny Phillips.\n\nIts narrative is formed by the events following the defeat of Macbeth by Malcolm and an English army in the Battle of Dunsinane at the end of William Shakespeare’s play \"Macbeth\". In Greig’s version, Lady Macbeth is known as Gruach. Having outlived her second husband Macbeth, after she had Macbeth kill her first husband, Gruach continued to enforce the Moray claim to the throne via herself and her son by her first marriage. The playwright parallels the attempted nation-building by the English leader Siward and the continued bloodshed against the English occupying forces with contemporary events in Afghanistan and Iraq. He also includes the Shakespearean characters MacDuff and Malcolm, as well as introducing new characters such as Siward’s English subordinate Lord Egham and a chorus of English soldiers.\n\nA radio adaptation premiered on BBC Radio 3 directed by Roxana Silbert and with original songs and music composed by Nick Powell on 30 January 2011. The cast included:\nThe National Theatre of Scotland has toured the Royal Shakespeare Company production since 2011 to theatres in Scotland, England, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Russia and the United States of America.\n\n"}
{"id": "15608438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15608438", "title": "Eastwind (music festival)", "text": "Eastwind (music festival)\n\nEastwind was a music festival held in 2008 which was planned to be held annually in India garnering participation from all the major bands and artists in the country. The criterion was Original Contemporary Music and artists performed over three days and through parallel stages from morning till night. \n\nThe recent years (since 2000) have seen increased recognition, visibility and surge in popularity of contemporary original music in India. In spite of that, the world’s perception of Indian music is still subjected to stereotypes, typically Bollywood.\n\nNew Delhi plays host to a large number of the nation’s most popular live acts. With Indian bands and their music getting popular and bands being invited to perform abroad, Eastwind creates a single-point showcase that recognises and presents this talent as an entertainment experience.\n\nThe idea of a large-scale music festival in India was pathbreaking and the participation of the most popular bands in the country was the main crowd-pulling element of the festival. Prospect Advisory & Management, who visualized and created this festival, were so swamped with requests for participation that they even had to postpone the first event in order to get through all the demos and applications. \n\nThe second edition was postponed from October 2009 to January 2010 before being cancelled.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1329097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1329097", "title": "Effect of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake on India", "text": "Effect of the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake on India\n\nAccording to official estimates in India, 10,136 people were killed and hundreds of thousands made homeless when a tsunami triggered by the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake near the Indonesian island of Sumatra struck the southern coast on 26 December 2004. The earthquake registered 9.1–9.3 M and was the largest in five decades. It was followed by strong aftershocks on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The death toll of the earthquake was 1,500 people.\n\nThis disaster affected a total of fourteen regions. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands comprise 572 islands (land masses at low and high tide), of which 38 are inhabited by people from the mainland and indigenous tribes. The islands were just north of the earthquake epicentre, and the tsunami reached a height of in the southern Nicobar Islands. The official death toll was 1,310, with about 5,600 missing. The unofficial death toll (including those missing and presumed dead) was estimated at about 7,000. This ocean earthquake goes down in history as the deadliest of all time. It took the lives of over 230,000 victims throughout the fourteen regions and wounded more than double this number.\nThe Great Nicobar and Car Nicobar islands were the worst hit among all the islands because of their proximity to the quake and relatively flat terrain. Aftershocks rocked the area,\nand one-fifth of the population of the Nicobar Islands was reported dead, injured or missing. Chowra Island lost two-thirds of its population of 1,500. Entire islands were submerged, and Trinket Island was divided in two. Communications were cut to the Nancowry group of islands, some of which were submerged.\n\nOn Car Nicobar, 111 Indian Air Force personnel and their family members were washed away when the tsunami severely damaged their air base. St. Thomas Cathedral (also known as the \"John Richardson church\" after John Richardson, a missionary and member of parliament) was washed away. The church, established in 1930 was one of the oldest and prominent churches in the region. A cricket stadium named after John Richardson and a statue dedicated to him were also washed away.\n\nMost of the population of the Andaman Islands are people from the mainland, primarily West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. The natives of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are endangered tribal groups, such as the Jarawa, Sentinelese, Shompen, Onge and the Great Andamanese. They are anthropologically-significant as some of the world's most primitive tribes. Most have maintained their lifestyle for centuries, and government policy is one of non-interference. Most of the native islanders reportedly survived the tsunami because they live on higher ground or far from the coast. The Onge (with a 2001 census population of 96), Jarawa (240), Sentinelese (39) and Great Andamanese (43) were reached by survey teams. The Sentinelese, on an island reserve, are hostile to outsiders and shot arrows at helicopters sent to check on them. On the Nicobar Islands the Nicobarese, a tribe with a Southeast Asian heritage (2001 population 28,653), lost about 656 lives with 3,000 missing. Surveys were conducted on the Shompen (2001 census count of 398) located on Great Nicobar island.\n\nIndia's only active volcano, Barren 1 (on Barren Island northeast of Port Blair), erupted on 30 December due to increased seismic activity. The population was evacuated, and there were no casualties. Indira Point (6°45’10″N and 93°49’36″E), the southernmost point of the Great Nicobar Island and India itself, subsided in the tsunami and its lighthouse was damaged.\n\nThe Indian Meteorological Department warned people in coastal areas to exercise caution due to rough seas and tsunami. The Indian government issued a tsunami alert across India's coastal areas, triggering a panic which required clarifications.\n\n\nNote 1: Taken from the latest report at National Disaster Management Division's site.\n"}
{"id": "55037836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55037836", "title": "Expo for Design, Innovation &amp; Technology", "text": "Expo for Design, Innovation &amp; Technology\n\nExpo for Design, Innovation & Technology (EDIT) is a 10-day festival launched by the Design Exchange (DX) in partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It is also supported by the Government of Ontario and its Ontario150 Program. The festival has received a $1.75 million investment from the Government of Ontario in 2017. The festival focusses on design, innovation and technology solutions and highlights the potential that the design industry has to solve issues on a global scale. The first annual festival took place in Toronto from September 28 to October 8, 2017 with a capacity of approximately 100,000 visitors.\n\nThe overall theme to EDIT was \"Prosperity For All\". It was inspired by the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Global Goals for Sustainable Development. The theme was portrayed through an art installation by designer Bruce Man, so cofounded Massive Change Network. It featured large black and white images of global conflict like pollution, genocide, and terrorism.\n\n"}
{"id": "51601353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51601353", "title": "GiSAT-1", "text": "GiSAT-1\n\nGiSAT-1 is a high-throughput geostationary communications satellite ordered by Global IP Cayman. It is to be designed and manufactured by Boeing on the Boeing-702MP platform. It will serve 35 Sub-Saharan countries on the K band and offer over 150 Gbit/s of bandwidth with a flexible digital payload. It is expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of 2018.\n\nGiSAT-1 is being designed and manufactured by Boeing on the Boeing 702MP satellite bus. It will have an estimated launch mass of and a design life of more than 15 years.\n\nIt is powered by two wings, with four panels each, of triple-junction GsAs solar cells providing a total of 15 kW.\n\nIt will have a fully digital high-throughput K band payload offering over 150 Gbit/s of bandwidth. It will offer its services in all the African continent and have four gateways in Europe for connectivity.\n\nOn September 12, 2016, Boeing announced another win for its Boeing 702MP platform, with the order of GiSAT-1 from the start-up Global IP Cayman. It would be a satellite with 15 kW of power generation with a fully digital high-throughput K band payload offering over 150 Gbit/s of bandwidth. It was at the time expected to be launched in 2019.\n\nOn April 3, 2017, Global IP Cayman announced that it had signed an agreement with SpaceX to launch GiSAT-1 on a Falcon 9 rocket.\n"}
{"id": "52166216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52166216", "title": "Girlboss", "text": "Girlboss\n\nGirlboss is an American comedy web television series created by Kay Cannon. The series was released on Netflix on April 21, 2017. The show was cancelled after one season.\n\nThe show is based on Sophia Amoruso's autobiography \"#Girlboss\", which tells the story of how Amoruso started the company Nasty Gal while working as a campus safety host for San Francisco's Academy of Art University.\n\n\n\nIn February 2016, it was announced that Netflix had ordered a series based on Amoruso's autobiography \"#Girlboss\". It was announced that the first season had gotten an order of 13 episodes. In June 2016, Britt Robertson joined the cast of the series. That same month, Johnny Simmons, Alphonso McAuley and Ellie Reed joined the cast. In July 2016, Dean Norris joined the cast in a recurring role.\n\nPrincipal photography took place in San Francisco and Los Angeles.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the first season a 32% rating based on 25 reviews and an average rating of 5.94/10. Metacritic gives the series a score of 53 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews.\"\n\nSome critics criticized the main character's unlikeability, but praised Robertson's portrayal.\n\nCritics were divided as to whether the show presented a feminist message. Jennifer Wright from \"New York Post\" called the show a \"feminist fraud\" because of Sophia's selfishness. However, Amy Otto from \"The Federalist\" praised it as a story of empowerment in the way Sophia creates her own brand based on her vision. On 18 April 2018, Zimbio criticized the show saying it was \"like the weird forgotten cousin of \".\n\n"}
{"id": "677752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=677752", "title": "Hecatomb", "text": "Hecatomb\n\nIn ancient Greece, a hecatomb ( or ; \"hekatómbē\") was a sacrifice to the gods of 100 cattle (\"hekaton\" = one hundred, \"bous\" = bull). In practice, as few as 12 could make up a hecatomb. \n\nAlthough originally the sacrifice of a hundred oxen in the religious ceremonies of the Greeks and Romans; later \"hecatomb\" came to describe a large number of any kind of animals devoted for sacrifice. Figuratively, \"hecatomb\" is used to describe the sacrifice or destruction by fire, tempest, disease or the sword of any large number of persons or animals; and also of the wholesale destruction of inanimate objects, and even of mental and moral attributes.\n\nHecatombs were offered to Greek gods Hera, Athena, and Apollo, during special religious ceremonies. At the end of the Olympic Games, a hecatomb was also offered to Zeus at Olympia. \n\nIn the Iliad hecatombs are described formulaically. The following is one instance, from Samuel Butler's translation:\n\n"}
{"id": "50736386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50736386", "title": "Hope Hicks", "text": "Hope Hicks\n\nHope Charlotte Hicks (born October 21, 1988) is an American public relations consultant who served as the White House Communications Director for U.S. President Donald Trump from August 2017 until March 29, 2018. From January to September 2017, she was White House Director of Strategic Communications, a role created for her. She previously was a teenage model but then became press secretary and early communications director for Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, as well as the national press secretary for his presidential transition team, and before that was an employee of The Trump Organization. She was Trump's longest-serving political aide at the time of her resignation.\n\nOn February 27, 2018, Hicks testified to a Congressional committee that she had told \"white lies\" on Trump's behalf. The next day, Hicks announced her intention to resign as White House Communications Director. She left the White House a month later.\n\nIn 2019, she will begin working for Fox as chief communications officer and executive vice president.\n\nHicks is the daughter of Caye Ann (Cavender) Hicks and Paul Burton Hicks III. She grew up in Greenwich, Connecticut. Her father was Regional CEO, Americas of Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, and executive vice president of communications for the National Football League from 2010 to 2015, before becoming managing director of the Glover Park Group. Her family had a history in politics: her mother was an aide to Ed Jones, a Democratic congressman from Tennessee; her maternal grandfather, G. W. F. \"Dutch\" Cavender, worked in the U.S. Department of Agriculture during two different administrations; and her maternal grandmother, Marilee Cavender, worked at the U.S. Department of Transportation.\n\nHicks was a teenage model, appearing in \"Greenwich\" magazine in 2002. She then posed for a Ralph Lauren campaign with her older sister Mary Grace, and was the face of the \"Hourglass Adventures\" novels about a time-traveling 10-year-old. She was the cover model for \"The It Girl\" (2005), the first novel in the series by Cecily von Ziegesar.\n\nHicks attended Greenwich High School, where she was co-captain of the lacrosse team, and graduated in 2006. She then attended Southern Methodist University, where she majored in English and played on a club lacrosse program she helped start. She graduated in 2010.\n\nHicks started in public relations with the New York City firm Zeno Group. She began working for public relations firm Hiltzik Strategies in 2012, after meeting the firm's founder at an NFL Super Bowl event, and worked there for Donald Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump, on her fashion line, and then on other Trump ventures.\n\nIn August 2014, Hicks joined The Trump Organization full-time. She worked for Ivanka Trump inside Trump Tower, helping expand her fashion label (the Ivanka Trump Collection) and modeling for her online store. In October 2014, she began working directly for Donald Trump.\n\nIn January 2015, Donald Trump chose Hicks, who was 26 years old at the time, for the role of press secretary for his potential presidential campaign. Trump summoned her to his office and, as she tells it, \"Mr. Trump looked at me and said, 'I'm thinking about running for president, and you're going to be my press secretary. Until that time, she had never worked in politics or volunteered on a campaign. After Trump's first primary victories, Hicks was asked to choose between staying with the Trump Organization or working on the campaign full-time. She initially decided to leave the campaign, but Trump convinced her to remain and she stayed on as press secretary.\n\nDuring the campaign, she played the role of gatekeeper to press members who wanted to speak with Trump, handling over 250 requests a day, and deciding which reporters would be allowed to speak with him. Hicks also took dictation from Trump for his tweets, and then sent the text to another person in the Trump organization who sent the tweets from Trump's official account. When in New York City, she would spend most of her day in Trump's office, handling inquiries from the press and taking dictation from him to tweet.\n\nOn December 22, 2016, it was announced that Hicks would become part of the Trump Administration, in the newly created position of the White House Director of Strategic Communications. In January 2017, Hicks was included on the \"Forbes\" 30 Under 30 list, having \"served as a one-woman press team for Trump's historic presidential campaign\".\n\nOn August 16, 2017, she was made the interim White House Communications Director (the last Director having been Anthony Scaramucci). \"Politico\" labelled her the \"Untouchable Hope Hicks\", as she was considered one of the few White House officials whose job was safe, and one of only two White House communications officials Scaramucci had announced were definitely staying when he was first hired. She was appointed permanent White House Communications Director on September 12, 2017.\n\nOn February 27, 2018, Hicks gave nine hours of closed-door testimony to the House Intelligence Committee. She acknowledged that she sometimes had to tell \"white lies\" in her work as communications director, but refused to answer any questions about her tenure in the White House. The next day the White House confirmed to \"The New York Times\" that Hicks planned to resign. According to \"multiple sources\", she had been planning to resign for months, and her announcement was unrelated to the events of the preceding 24 hours. She officially resigned on March 29, 2018.\n\nHicks and her sister lived in Greenwich, Connecticut, but she split her time between an apartment there and an apartment in Manhattan. When Trump was elected, she moved to Washington, D.C.\n\nHicks allegedly dated Trump's campaign manager Corey Lewandowski while he was still married to Alison Hardy. She later began dating former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter, while he was caught up in a scandal for allegedly beating his two ex-wives.\n\n"}
{"id": "35981812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35981812", "title": "How to Be an American Housewife", "text": "How to Be an American Housewife\n\nHow To Be An American Housewife is a 2010 novel by Margaret Dilloway. It is based on the experiences of Dilloway's mother, who was a Japanese war bride.\n\nThe book tells the story of Shoko Morgan, a mother of two and wife to American GI Charlie. Shoko decided to contact her brother Taro, whom she last saw when she married Charlie at the end of World War II. However, she is too ill to return her country. Shoko asked her daughter Sue and granddaughter to go to Japan to find her uncle to discover her mother's life secret.\n\n\nThe book was a John Gardner Fiction Award Finalist in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "197963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197963", "title": "Information good", "text": "Information good\n\nInformation good in economics and law is a type commodity whose market value is derived from information it contains. Examples include CDs containing pieces of music, DVDs containing movie content, and books containing short stories. Information goods are in contrast to material goods such as clothes, food, and cars. These can exist in either digitized form or analog format. \n\nIn information goods, the valuable part is a pattern in which the material is arranged including the arrangement of ink on paper or a series of information on a compact disc. Those patterns might be either directly consumed through reading, viewing, or may be used to operate other devices such as a cassette player or a computer. The device, in turn, may produce some consumable pattern of information (such as visual, sound, or text). \n\nIn economics, information plays a double role. On one side, perfect information is a key requirement of the efficient-market hypothesis. Here, information is understood to be instantly available for everybody at no cost and fully complete. However, actual markets often depend on information as a commodity, hence information goods. Here, information is understood to be potentially restricted in terms of access, cost, availability, and completeness.\n\nEconomic theory faces the problem of constantly dealing with two contradictory concepts of information at the same time. If efficiency is the dominant aspect of analyses, it is likely that commodification is considered to be harmful. If incentive for creation is the dominant aspect of analyses, the protection of the creator is then likely to be dominant.\n\nA consumer may face uncertainty and not be able to assess accurately and reliably the utility of some information goods, such as novels, movies, and newspapers, before consumption of the goods. This is a peculiar property of information goods whereby the process of evaluating utility may require the very process of consumption. This uncertainty is a type of market failure known as the lemon problem and is not unique to information goods. \n\nInformation goods may interact on the basis of artificial scarcity. Some information goods can be reproduced and distributed relatively inexpensively. An example would be copying recorded music from radio, cassette player, or CD player to a tape or computer hard disc. \n\nInformation goods are also not consumed by the act of copying. On this basis, some argue that information should be provided without cost and limitations to copying.\n\nAs digital technologies and digital electronic networks in some countries became very popular, it was very easy to reproduce and widely distribute some information goods. However, due to the difficulty of controlling the copying and distributing activities of people using such technologies, it is often harder for the producer of such goods to prevent illegal distribution of proprietary works. This operates on the principle of economic excludability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4974658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974658", "title": "Janzen v Platy Enterprises Ltd", "text": "Janzen v Platy Enterprises Ltd\n\nJanzen v Platy Enterprises Ltd [1989] 1 S.C.R. 1252 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on discrimination. The Court found that sexual harassment was as a form of discrimination based on sex and so was prohibited by the \"Manitoba Human Rights Act\". \n\nDuring the fall of 1982, Dianna Janzen and Tracy Govereau were both employed as waitresses at Pharos restaurant in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Tommy Grammas, a cook at the restaurant, began making sexual advances to Janzen. She repeatedly made it clear that the advances were not welcome, nonetheless they continued. When Janzen approached Eleftherois Anastasiadis, the manager of the restaurant, he said, \"if it's about Tommy, I can't do anything about it.\" Eventually, the advances were replaced with uncooperative and threatening behaviour. When Anastasiadis was approached about it he refused to act on it and instead fired the women.\n\nThe women sued Platy Enterprises Ltd., the owner of Phraos restaurant, as well as Tommy, under section 6(1) of the \"Manitoba Human Rights Act\", for violating their right to equal opportunity by firing them because of their sex.\n\nThe Manitoba Human Rights Tribunal held that the women had been subject to sexual harassment on the basis of sex and so the restaurant owners were in violation of section 6(1) of the Act. The Court of Queen's Bench upheld the decision.\n\nThe Manitoba Court of Appeal overturned the Court of Queen's Bench. The court found that sexual harassment was not considered discrimination on the basis of sex and that the employer could not be held vicariously liable of the conduct of the employee.\n\nChief Justice Dickson, writing for a unanimous Court, held that the restaurant's conduct did constitute discrimination on the basis of sex. Dickson rejected the Court of Appeal's ruling that the harassment was not based on sex because not all female employees were targeted. He stated that discrimination on the basis of sex is where there is a \"practice or attitude which had the effect of limiting the conditions of employment of, or the employment opportunities available to, employees on the basis of a characteristic related to gender.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "317935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317935", "title": "Joe E. Kernan", "text": "Joe E. Kernan\n\nJoseph Eugene Kernan (born April 8, 1946) is an American businessman and former politician who served as the 48th Governor of Indiana from 2003 to 2005. A member of the Democratic Party, Kernan previously served as Mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and then as the 47th Lieutenant Governor of Indiana from 1997 to 2003. He became governor on September 13, 2003, upon the death of Governor Frank O'Bannon. He lost an election to serve a full term as governor to former Office of Management and Budget director Mitch Daniels on November 2, 2004. Kernan returned to South Bend and retired from politics.\n\nJoe Kernan was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1946. He graduated from St. Joseph's High School in South Bend, Indiana. He graduated in 1968 with a degree in Government from the University of Notre Dame, where he was a resident of Stanford Hall. Kernan played baseball at Notre Dame in 1967 and 1968.\n\nKernan entered the United States Navy in 1969 and served as a Naval Flight Officer aboard the carrier USS \"Kitty Hawk\". After he completed Naval Flight Officer training, reconnaissance training, & RA-5C Vigilante Replacement Air Group training, he served with RVAH-7 at Naval Air Station Albany, Georgia, until deploying to Southeast Asia aboard the aircraft carrier from February 1972 until he was shot down by enemy forces while on a reconnaissance mission over North Vietnam and was taken as a Prisoner of War on May 7, 1972. He was held as a prisoner of war for 11 months. Kernan was repatriated in 1973 and continued on active duty with the Navy until December 1974. Kernan received the Distinguished Flying Cross, two Purple Hearts and the Navy Commendation Medal.\n\nAfter completing his Naval service, Kernan worked for Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati in 1975. He then returned to South Bend, where he worked for both the Schwarz Paper Company and the MacWilliams Corporation. He was South Bend's city controller from 1980 to 1984.\nJoe Kernan was elected mayor of South Bend in 1987, 1991 and again in 1995, when he won with more than 82% of the vote.\nIn 1996, Kernan was elected as Indiana's Lieutenant Governor, and then re-elected in 2000. As Lieutenant Governor, Kernan served as the President of the Indiana Senate, the Director of the Indiana Department of Commerce, and as the Commissioner of Agriculture.\n\nOriginally, Kernan declined to seek the governorship during the 2004 election, but decided to do so upon assuming the governorship after the death of Frank O'Bannon.\n\nHe was defeated by Mitch Daniels for a full four-year term in 2004.\n\nKernan returned to private life in January 2005 and became president of the South Bend Silver Hawks baseball club. In July 2007, Kernan and Indiana Chief Justice Randall Shepard were appointed by Daniels to co-chair the Indiana Commission on Local Government Reform.\n\nIn 1974 he married his wife, Maggie. They have a home in South Bend, where Maggie works as a marketing specialist for 1st Source Bank. A Purdue University graduate who is active in community service, Maggie has been mentoring a child through a South Bend Community Schools program since 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "84359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84359", "title": "La Tomatina", "text": "La Tomatina\n\nLa Tomatina () is a festival that is held in the Valencian town of Buñol, in the East of Spain from the Mediterranean, in which participants throw tomatoes and get involved in a tomato fight purely for entertainment purposes. Since 1945 it has been held on the last Wednesday of August, during a week of festivities in Buñol.\n\nIt started the last Wednesday of August in 1945 when some young people spent the time in the town square to attend the Giants and Big-Heads figures parade. The young boys decided to take part in a parade with musicians, Giants and Big-Heads figures. The energy of jovialities caused one participant's big head to fall off. The participant flew into a fit of rage, began hitting everything in his path. There was a market stall of vegetable that fell victim to the fury of the crowd. People started to pelt each other with tomatoes until the local forces ended that fruit battle. \n\nThe following year, some young people engaged in a pre-planned quarrel and brought their own tomatoes from home. Although the police broke it up, this began the early tradition. In the following years, the young boys' example had unwittingly made history.\n\nLa Tomatina was banned in the early 50s, however this did not stop the participants who were arrested. But the people protested the prohibition and the festivity was again allowed with more participants and increased passions. The festivity was again cancelled till 1957 when, as a sign of protest, the tomato burial was held. It was a demonstration in which the residents carried a coffin with a huge tomato inside. The parade was accompanied by a music band which played funeral marches. The protest was successful. La Tomatina Festival was finally permitted and became an official festival. \n\nAs a result of the report of Javier Basilio, a broadcaster from the Spanish television program called \"Informe Semanal\", the festivity started to be known throughout the rest of Spain. Since then, the number of participants increased year after year as well as the excitement about La Tomatina Festival. In 2002, La Tomatina of Buñol was declared Festivity of International Tourist Interest by the Secretary Department of Tourism due to its success.\n\nUsually the fight lasts for about two hours, after which the town square is covered with tomato debris. Fire trucks then hose down the streets and participants often use hoses that locals provide to remove the tomatoes from their bodies. Some participants go to the “Los Peñones” pool to wash. The citric acid in the tomatoes leads to the washed surfaces in the town becoming very clean.\n\nSince 2013 participation in the event has been restricted to the holders of paid tickets. In 2015, it was estimated that almost kg of tomatoes were thrown.\n\nThe city council follows a short list of instructions for the safety of the participants and the festival:\n\n\nLa Tomatina Buñol has inspired similar celebrations in other parts of the world:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46196730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46196730", "title": "List of Arabian Peninsula tropical cyclones", "text": "List of Arabian Peninsula tropical cyclones\n\nThe Arabian Peninsula is a peninsula between the Red Sea, the Arabian Sea, and the Persian Gulf. There are 59 known tropical cyclones that affected the peninsula, primarily Yemen and Oman. For convenience, storms are included that affected the Yemeni island of Socotra. Most of the tropical cyclones originated in the Arabian Sea, the portion of the Indian Ocean north of the equator and west of India. The remainder formed in the Bay of Bengal off India's east coast. Collectively, the 57 storms have caused at least US$5.7 billion in damage and 1,693 deaths. The strongest and most damaging cyclone was Cyclone Gonu, which caused US$4 billion in damage and 50 fatalities when it struck Oman in 2007. Tropical cyclone damage in the Arabian Peninsula is chiefly due to flooding.\n\nWithin the Indian Ocean north of the equator, tropical cyclones are tracked by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which is the officially designated Regional Specialized Meteorological Center for the region. The American-based Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) also tracks storms in the basin on an unofficial basis. The Arabian Sea, which borders the Arabian Peninsula, typically spawns tropical cyclones in the southeastern portion of the body of water, offshore of western India. About 48.5% of cyclones dissipate without making landfall, or moving ashore, and around one in three storms move toward the Arabian Peninsula. However, storms do not form in the western Arabian Sea because of cool sea surface temperatures (the result of strong winds from the monsoon), as well as dry air from the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe sultanate of Oman, located on the southeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, regularly receives the impacts of tropical cyclones due to its long coastline along the Arabian Sea. On average, storms strike Oman once every three years, mostly between Masirah Island and Salalah, and usually before June or after October. From 1943 to 1967, tropical cyclones accounted for about 25% of Salalah's overall rainfall. About once every five years, a storm affects the Dhofar region of southern Oman, and Oman's capital of Muscat about once every ten years in. Between 1890 and 1996, 36 storms struck Oman, although some landfalling storms might be excluded from the historical record due to the lack of population centers. In addition, storm intensities at landfall have only been accurately known since around 1979, and reliable record keeping began around 1970. In 2014, an archaeology team discovered evidence that a major flood affected Ras Al Hadd in eastern Oman, possibly the result of a tsunami or a severe storm.\n\nOman's most damaging storm was Cyclone Gonu in 2007, which was the strongest recorded storm in the Arabian Sea and the strongest to make landfall on the landmass. Gonu left US$4 billion in damage and killed 50 people, making it the worst natural disaster on record in Oman. In 2010, a slightly weaker cyclone named Phet caused US$780 million in damage and 24 deaths while crossing eastern Oman. Cyclonic Storm Keila in the subsequent year killed 19 people while looping near Oman's southern coastline, and left US$80 million in damage. In 1890, a storm killed 757 people when it flooded much of Oman's capital. A storm in 1959 caused a shipwreck near southern Oman, resulting in the loss of all 141 crewmembers. Another storm-related shipwreck killed 18 people in December 1998. In June 1977, a storm struck Masirah Island, causing 105 deaths and becoming Oman's worst natural disaster in the 20th century. A storm in 2002 that killed nine and caused US$25 million in damage. Cyclone Nilofar in 2014 killed four people from its outer rainbands. \n\nAlthough storms rarely strike Yemen, back-to-back cyclones Chapala and Megh hit the country one week apart in November 2015. The country has two recorded landfalls by severe cyclonic storms – tropical cyclones with winds of at least . The first was a storm in May 1960, and the other was Cyclone Chapala in 2015, the latter being the second-strongest cyclone on record in the Arabian Sea. Chapala earlier struck the Yemeni offshore island of Socotra, which was also hit by Cyclone Megh less than a week later. The two storms collectively killed 26 people in Yemen. The country's worst natural disaster on record was from a 1996 storm that earlier hit Oman, causing severe flooding that caused US$1.2 billion in damage and 338 deaths. The second worst natural disaster in Yemen was from a weak depression in 2008 that killed 180 people and caused US$874.8 million in damage. More recently, Cyclone Sagar killed a woman when her house caught fire due to the storm.\n\nElsewhere on the peninsula, Cyclone Gonu's waves damaged the port in Fujairah, United Arab Emirates. In 1995 and again in 1996, the remnants of a storm that hit Oman entered Rub' al Khali, or the Empty Quarter, of Saudi Arabia. In 2008, the remnants of a storm that hit Yemen brought rainfall and dust storms to Saudi Arabia and Iraq.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16935186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16935186", "title": "Miss Universe 1974", "text": "Miss Universe 1974\n\nMiss Universe 1974, the 23rd Miss Universe pageant, was held on 21 July 1974 at the Folk Arts Theater in Manila, Philippines. It was the first time in the pageant's history that the event was held in Asia. Margarita Moran of the Philippines crowned her successor Amparo Muñoz of Spain at the end of the event.\n\nThere were 65 delegates from around the world who competed for the 1974 title. This was the first Miss Universe event to be held in Asia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6577057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6577057", "title": "Missouri State Fair", "text": "Missouri State Fair\n\nThe Missouri State Fair is the state fair for the state of Missouri, which has operated since 1901 in Sedalia, Missouri. It includes daily concerts, exhibits and competitions of animals, homemade crafts, shows, and many food/lemonade stands, and it only lasts 11 days. Its most famous event is the mule show, which has run since its inception. The fairgrounds are located at 2503 W 16th Street on the southwest side of the city at the intersection of West 16th Street (State Highway Y) and South Limit Avenue (U.S. Highway 65).\n\nIn 2015, the Missouri State Fair had an attendance of about 350,000 people. It has won numerous first-place and other awards at the annual conference of the International Association of Fairs and Expositions (IAFE), especially for its promotion of agricultural exhibitors.\n\nIn 1897, N. H. Gentry of Sedalia persuaded the Missouri Swine Breeders Association to request the Missouri General Assembly to establish a state fair. In 1899 a resolution for the fair was introduced by C.E. Clark.\n\nThe state considered locating the fair in Centralia, Chillicothe, Marshall, Mexico, Moberly and Sedalia. Cities made offers on the amounts of land they would commit to the fair.\n\nAfter ten ballots, Sedalia received the majority vote; it had bid , the most amount of land of any city to be devoted to the fairgrounds. The Van Riper family, who had set land aside for the location of the Missouri State Capitol in Jefferson City, Missouri, also donated the site in Sedalia.\n\nThe first Missouri State Fair was held September 9–13 in 1901. One of the most distinctive aspects of the early fairs was the \"white city\": the of tents, each for rent by exhibitors.\n\nOdessa Ice Cream was the official ice cream at the Missouri State Fair in the 1930s.\n\nThe Missouri State Fairgrounds are now used year-round and generate revenue in every season, for more than 350 days out of the available 365. The fairgrounds hosted the Ozark Music Festival July 19–21, 1974, with an estimated crowd of 350,000 people. Off-season usage includes music concerts, camper rallies, livestock shows, organized athletic leagues and tournaments, auto races, craft shows, and youth rallies.\n\nThe Missouri State Fairgrounds Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1991. It encompasses 47 contributing buildings, 5 contributing sites, 7 contributing structures, and 7 contributing objects. The district developed between 1901 and 1941, and includes representative examples of Art Deco, Mission Revival, and Romanesque Revival architecture. They include several red brick exposition halls and animal barns, concrete drinking fountains constructed by Works Progress Administration, and concession buildings.\n\nIn 2009, the Missouri State Fair celebrated its 107th year. Attendance increased nearly 8 percent, for a total of 337,851 during the fair's run. The mild summer encouraged high attendance, and families also liked the fair's affordability as a joint event they could enjoy.\n\nAt the end of the year, fair organizers were honored with first-place and other awards at the International Association of Fairs and Expositions (IAFE). Missouri State Fair Director Mark Wolfe was pleased with the fair's recognition. First place awards included one for \"Overall Program for Competitive Agricultural Exhibitors\", an overview of the Fair's entire agricultural program including number of entries, promotional materials and the overall quality of the program.\n\n\"This category is among one of the highest honors a fair can receive,\" said Wolfe. \"I am extremely proud to have placed 1st for our continued dedication to showcase agriculture, which is the premise of the Missouri State Fair.\"\n\nAnother first place win was received for the category of \"Fair and Sponsor Joint Exhibit Program\". The Fair partnered with Monsanto Corporation in the first annual 4-H Show-Me Robots exhibit.\n\nThe 2010 Missouri State Fair was held August 12–22.\n\n\nThe 2011 Missouri State Fair was held August 11–21. Themed \"It's a Show-Me Thing!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19284338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284338", "title": "Monopsony", "text": "Monopsony\n\nIn economics, a monopsony (from Ancient Greek μόνος (\"mónos\") \"single\" + ὀψωνία (\"opsōnía\") \"purchase\") is a market structure in which a single buyer substantially controls the market as the major purchaser of goods and services offered by many would-be sellers. In the microeconomic theory of monopsony, a single entity is assumed to have market power over sellers as the only purchaser of a good or service, much in the same manner that a monopolist can influence the price for its buyers in a monopoly, in which only one seller faces many buyers.\n\nMonopsony theory was developed by economist Joan Robinson in her book \"The Economics of Imperfect Competition\" (1933). Economists use the term \"monopsony power\" in a manner similar to \"monopoly power\" as a shorthand reference for a scenario in which there is one dominant power in the buying relationship, so that power is able to set prices to maximize profits not subject to competitive constraints. Monopsony power exists when one buyer faces little competition from other buyers for that labor or good, so they are able to set wages and prices for the labor or goods they are buying at a level lower than would be the case in a competitive market. A classic theoretical example is a mining town, where the company that owns the mine is able to set wages low since they face no competition from other employers in hiring workers, because they are the only employer in the town, and geographic isolation or obstacles prevent workers from seeking employment in other locations. Other more current examples may include school districts where teachers have little mobility across districts. In such cases the district faces little competition from other schools in hiring teachers, giving the district increased power when negotiating employment terms. Alternative terms are oligopsony or monopsonistic competition.\n\nThe term was first introduced by Joan Robinson in her influential book, \"The Economics of Imperfect Competition\", published in 1933. Robinson credited classics scholar Bertrand Hallward at the University of Cambridge with coining the term.\n\nThe standard textbook monopsony model of a labor market is a static partial equilibrium model with just one employer who pays the same wage to all the workers. The employer faces an upward-sloping \"labor supply curve\" (as generally contrasted with an infinitely elastic labor supply curve), represented by the \"S\" blue curve in the diagram on the right. This curve relates the wage paid, formula_1, to the level of employment, formula_2, and is denoted as an increasing function formula_3. Total labor costs are given by formula_4. The firm has a total revenue formula_5, which increases with formula_2. The firm wants to choose formula_2 to maximize profits, formula_8, which are given by:\n\nAt the maximum profit formula_10, so first-order condition for maximization is\n\nwhere here formula_12 is the derivative of the function formula_13 implying\n\nThe left-hand side of this expression, formula_15, is the \"marginal revenue product\" of labor (roughly, the extra revenue produced by an extra worker) and is represented by the red \"MRP\" curve in the diagram. The right-hand side is the \"marginal cost\" of labor (roughly, the extra cost due to an extra worker) and is represented by the green \"MC\" curve in the diagram. Notably, the marginal cost is \"higher\" than the wage formula_3 paid to the new worker by the amount\n\nThis is because the firm has to increase the wage paid to all the workers it already employs whenever it hires an extra worker. In the diagram, this leads to an \"MC\" curve that is \"above\" the labor supply curve \"S\".\n\nThe first-order condition for maximum profit is then satisfied at point \"A\" of the diagram, where the \"MC\" and \"MRP\"  curves intersect. This determines the profit-maximising employment as \"L\" on the horizontal axis. The corresponding wage \"w\" is then obtained from the supply curve, through point \"M\".\n\nThe monopsonistic equilibrium at \"M\" can be contrasted with the equilibrium that would obtain under competitive conditions. Suppose a competitor employer entered the market and offered a wage higher than that at \"M\". Then every employee of the first employer would choose instead to work for the competitor. Moreover, the competitor would gain all the former profits of the first employer, minus a less-than-offsetting amount from the wage increase of the first employer's employees, plus profits arising from additional employees who decided to work in the market because of the wage increase. But the first employer would respond by offering an even higher wage, poaching the new rival's employees, and so forth. As a result, a group of perfectly competitive firms would be forced, through competition, to intersection \"C\" rather than \"M\". Just as a monopoly is thwarted by the competition to win sales, minimizing prices and maximizing output, competition for employees between the employers in this case would maximize both wages and employment.\n\nThe lower employment and wages caused by monopsony power have two distinct effects on the economic welfare of the people involved. First, it redistributes welfare away from workers and to their employer(s). Secondly, it reduces the aggregate (or social) welfare enjoyed by both groups taken together, as the employers' net gain is smaller than the loss inflicted on workers.\n\nThe diagram on the right illustrates both effects, using the standard approach based on the notion of economic surplus. According to this notion, the workers' economic surplus (or net gain from the exchange) is given by the area between the \"S\" curve and the horizontal line corresponding to the wage, up to the employment level. Similarly, the employers' surplus is the area between the horizontal line corresponding to the wage and the \"MRP\" curve, up to the employment level. The \"social\" surplus is then the sum of these two areas.\n\nFollowing such definitions, the grey rectangle, in the diagram, is the part of the competitive social surplus that has been redistributed from the workers to their employer(s) under monopsony. By contrast, the yellow triangle is the part of the competitive social surplus that has been lost by \"both\" parties, as a result of the monopsonistic restriction of employment. This is a net social loss and is called \"deadweight loss\". It is a measure of the market failure caused by monopsony power, through a wasteful misallocation of resources.\n\nAs the diagram suggests, the size of both effects increases with the difference between the marginal revenue product \"MRP\" and the market wage determined on the supply curve \"S\". This difference corresponds to the vertical side of the yellow triangle, and can be expressed as a proportion of the market wage, according to the formula:\n\nThe ratio formula_19 has been called the rate of exploitation, and it can be easily shown that it equals the reciprocal of the elasticity of the labour supply curve faced by the firm. Thus the rate of exploitation is zero under competitive conditions, when this elasticity tends to infinity. Empirical estimates of formula_19 by various means are a common feature of the applied literature devoted to the measurement of observed monopsony power.\n\nFinally, it is important to notice that, while the gray-area redistribution effect could be reversed by fiscal policy (i.e., taxing employers and transferring the tax revenue to the workers), this is not so for the yellow-area deadweight loss. The market failure can only be addressed in one of two ways: either by breaking up the monopsony through anti-trust intervention, or by regulating the wage policy of firms. The most common kind of regulation is a binding minimum wage higher than the monopsonistic wage.\n\nA binding minimum wage can be introduced either directly by law or through collective bargaining laws requiring union membership. While it is generally agreed that minimum wage price floors reduce employment, in the presence of monopsony power within the labor market the effect is reversed and a minimum wage \"could\" increase employment. \n\nThis effect is demonstrated in the diagram on the right.\n\nHere the minimum wage is \"w',\" higher than the monopsonistic \"w\". Because of the binding effects of minimum wage and the excess supply of labor (as defined by the monopsony status), the marginal cost of labor for the firm becomes constant (the price of hiring an additional worker rather than the increasing cost as labor becomes more scarce). This means that the firm maximizes profit at the intersection of the new marginal cost line (MC' in the diagram) and Marginal Revenue Product line (the additional revenue for selling one more unit). This is the point where it becomes more expensive to produce an additional item than is earned in revenue from selling that item. \n\nIt should be noted that this condition is still inefficient compared to a competitive market. The line segment represented by A-B shows that there are still workers who would like to find a job, but cannot due to the monopsonistic nature of this industry. This would represent the unemployment rate for this industry. This illustrates the there will be deadweight loss in a monoposonistic labor environment regardless of minimum wage levels, however a minimum wage law can increase total employment within the industry. \nMore generally, a binding minimum wage modifies the form of the supply curve faced by the firm, which becomes:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the original supply curve and formula_23 is the minimum wage. The new curve has thus a horizontal first branch and a kink at the point\n\nas is shown in the diagram by the kinked black curve \"MC' S\" (the black curve to the right of point B). The resulting equilibria (the profit-maximizing choices that rational companies will make) can then fall into one of three classes according to the value taken by the minimum wage, as shown by the following table:\n\nYet, even when it is sub-optimal, a minimum wage higher than the monopsonistic rate raises the level of employment anyway. This is a highly remarkable result because it only follows under monopsony. Indeed, under competitive conditions any minimum wage higher than the market rate would actually \"reduce\" employment, according to classical economic models and the consensus of peer-reviewed work. Thus, spotting the effects on employment of newly introduced minimum wage regulations is among the indirect ways economists use to pin down monopsony power in selected labor markets. This technique was used, for example in a series of studies looking at the American labor market that found monopsonies existed only in several specialized fields such as professional sports and college professors.\n\nJust like a monopolist, a monopsonistic employer may find that its profits are maximized if it \"discriminates\" prices. In this case this means paying different wages to different groups of workers even if their MRP is the same, with lower wages paid to the workers who have a lower elasticity of supply of their labor to the firm.\n\nResearchers have used this fact to explain at least part of the observed wage differentials whereby women often earn less than men, even after controlling for observed productivity differentials. Robinson's original application of monopsony (1938) was developed to explain wage differentials between equally productive women and men. Ransom and Oaxaca (2004) found that women's wage elasticity is lower than that of men for employees at a grocery store chain in Missouri, controlling for other factors typically associated with wage determination. Ransom and Lambson (2011) found that female teachers are paid less than male teachers due to differences in labor market mobility constraints facing women and men.\n\nSome authors have argued informally that, while this is so for \"market\" supply, the reverse may somehow be true of the supply to individual firms. In particular, Manning and others have shown that, in the case of the UK Equal Pay Act, implementation has led to higher employment of women. Since the Act was effectively minimum wage legislation for women, this might perhaps be interpreted as a symptom of monopsonistic discrimination.\n\nThe simpler explanation of monopsony power in labor markets is barriers to entry on the demand side. Such barriers to entry would result in a limited number of companies competing for labor (oligopsony). If the hypothesis was generally true, one would expect to find that wages decreased as firm size increased or, more accurately, as industry concentration increased. However, numerous statistical studies document significant positive correlations between firm or establishment size and wages. These results are often explained as being the result of cross-industry competition. For example, if there were only one fast food producer, that industry would be very consolidated. But that company wouldn't be able to drive down wages via monopsonistic power if it were also competing against retail stores, construction, and other jobs utilizing the same labor skill set. This finding is both intuitive (low-skilled labor can move more fluidly through different industries) and supported by the data which found that monopsony effects are limited to professional sports, and perhaps nursing, fields where skill sets limit moving to comparably paid other industries. \n\nHowever, monopsony power might also be due to circumstances affecting entry of workers on the supply side (like in the referenced case above), directly reducing the elasticity of labor supply to firms. Paramount among these are industry accreditation or licensing fees, regulatory constraints, training or education requirements, and the institutional factors that limit labor mobility between firms, including job protection legislation. \n\nAn alternative that has been suggested as a source of monopsony power is worker preferences over job characteristics. Such job characteristics can include distance from work, type of work, location, the social environment at work, etc. If different workers have different preferences, employers could have local monopsony power over workers that strongly prefer working for them.\n\nEmpirical evidence of monopsony power has been relatively limited. In line with the considerations discussed above, but perhaps counter to common intuition, there is no observable monopsony power in low-skilled labor markets in the US. Though there has been at least one study finding monopsony power in Indonesia due to barriers to entry in developing countries. Several studies expanding their view for monopsony power have found economic and labor mobility in the US precludes any detectable monopsony effects with the notable exceptions of professional sports and (with some disagreement ) nursing. Both of these industries have highly specialized labor conditions and are generally not substitutable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48761756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48761756", "title": "NBC News team kidnapping in Syria", "text": "NBC News team kidnapping in Syria\n\nThe NBC News Team kidnapping in Syria took place in late 2012 inmidst the Syrian Civil War, when US journalist Richard Engel, chief foreign correspondent of NBC News, with his five-member reporting crew were abducted by armed militants.\n\nTaken hostage on 13 December 2012 near the Bab al-Hawa Border Crossing when crossing into Syria, Richard Engel and his crew members – Aziz Akyavaş, Ghazi Balkiz, John Kooistra, Ian Rivers and Ammar Cheikh Omar –\nwas detained in the vicinity of Ma'arrat Misrin in northern Idlib. Five days later, the six journalists managed to escape during a firefight at a checkpoint of Islamist Ahrar ash-Sham.\n\nThe case was controversial, as upon their release, Engel and his crew blamed a Shiite Shabiha group of Assad-loyalists for the abduction. The narrative was however challenged, and it later turned out that they were most likely abducted by Free Syrian Army (FSA)-aligned Syrian rebel group North Idlib Falcons Brigade. It also became known that NBC News' investigation team had suspected the Sunni group from the outset, but withheld their intelligence.\n\nThe kidnapping was first revealed to the public, when Turkish journalist Cüneyt Özdemir tweeted about fellow Turkish journalist Aziz Akyavaş having disappeared. Turkish newspaper \"Hürriyet\" ran a news report on 16 December 2012 that was picked up by Turkish news channel NTV, Chinese news agency Xinhua, and U.S. blogs Daily Kos and Breitbart, amongst others.\n\nFollowing the disclosure, NBC News asked every reporter inquiring about the \"Hürriyet\" report to participate in a news blackout. They also asked Twitter users to take down related tweets. U.S. online magazine Gawker, amongst others, broke the news blackout referring to the news being already out in the public. Gawker's author John Cook emphasized that – unlike in the case of the 2008 kidnapping of \"New York Times\" reporter David Rohde – the rationale offered in off-the-record conversations didn't \"indicate a specific, or even general, threat to Engel's safety.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch emergencies director Peter Bouckaert criticized the outlets which ran reports ahead of the captives' release. He defended the news blackout as going “against the journalistic instinct to report the news, but in many of these cases [do] save lives.” In contrast, fellow war correspondent Robert Young Pelton criticized the news blackout as a \"clumsy attempt to cover collective corporate ass and mitigate bad publicity,\" maintaining that no one could show blackouts help protect captives.\n\nFollowing their release on late Monday, 17 December, Engel and his crew returned to Turkey. NBC immediately published a statement informing about them being \"safely out of the country\". Associated Press spread an amateur video, that had apparently been posted earlier that week by the hostage-takers on YouTube.\n\nWhile Aziz Akyavaş spoke at a news conference in Turkey, Engel, Kooistra and Balkiz had their first appearance on NBC's morning show \"Today.\" In his \"Today\" interview, Engel said that while crossing back into Syria, they were captured by around 15 men, who \"literally jumped out of the trees and bushes\" and dragged them out of their car, killing one of the rebels who accompanied the crew. During their captivity near the village of Ma'arrat Misrin, they remained physically unharmed, but were blindfolded and bound, and were subjected to mock executions.\n\nThe kidnappers had talked \"openly about their loyalty to the government\" of Syrian president Assad, and that they wanted to exchange them for four Iranian agents and two Lebanese member of the Amal Movement. He said he therefore had \"a very good idea\" about who his captors were: members of the Shabiha militia, who are loyal to Assad, trained by the Iran's Revolutionary Guard and allied with Lebanon-based Hezbollah group.\n\nNBC wrote in a statement that Engel and his crew became free when during a relocation, their vehicle ran into a checkpoint of fundamentalist rebel group Ahrar al-Sham, and that during a firefight, \"two of the captors were killed, while an unknown number of others escaped.” The rebels then helped escort the crew to the border with Turkey.\n\nU.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Susan E. Rice, wrote on Twitter that she was relieved for Engel and his crew, adding that: \"The situation for Syria’s people remains dire. They, too, deserve to be free.\"\n\nIn one of the several interviews of team members with NBC News, producer Ghazi Balkiz recounted the firefight that eventually led to their liberation, was for him the most \"nerve-wracking\" moment, though being personally subjected to mock executions before. It became clear that the NBC team was initially captured near the Bab al-Hawa Border Crossing, and that five days later, they used the \"chaotic minutes\" of the firefight to break out of the van and take cover.\n\nIn the April 2013 edition of \"Vanity Fair\", Engel recounted his experience in an editorial, \"The Hostage\".\n\nWhile the network and Engel were thought of having followed \"a consistent clear-cut narrative on the kidnapping,\" Jamie Dettmer of \"The Daily Beast\" challenged NBC's version only days later. The NBC version, he wrote, \"omits much and is at odds with what security sources involved in the freeing of the group say happened,\" referring to unnamed sources who also claimed the network was trying to present the incident in the best possible light, masking a series of basic security lapses.\n\nFurthermore, according to Dettmer's unnamed sources, NBC’s security advisers had been convinced that there was at least some involvement of \"rogue members of the rebel FSA.\" NBC's security contractor Pilgrims Group had already focussed on the area of Ma'arrat Misrin and urged FSA contacts to set up checkpoints to box the captors in, pointing out that Engel had been supportive of the uprising against Assad. The sources praised the fundamentalist rebel group Ahrar al-Sham for having done \"a brilliant job\" during the subsequent firefight.\n\nMore than two years later, in April 2015, NBC News revised its narrative of the 2012 kidnapping, stating that it was highly likely that Engel and his team were abducted by a Sunni rebel group rather than by pro-regime Shabiha. Engel explained that their abductors had \"put on an elaborate ruse to convince us they were Shiite shabiha militiamen\". He upheld that they were rescued by Ahrar al-Sham, stating that a \"bearded gunman\" he referred to as the Islamist group's local commander Abu Ayman, had approached and told them they were safe now.\n\nBefore, the \"New York Times\" had conducted several dozen interviews, suggesting that the NBC team \"was almost certainly taken by a Sunni criminal element affiliated with the Free Syrian Army.\" The suspect group was named as the North Idlib Falcons Brigade, led by Azzo Qassab and Shukri Ajouj, who were said to have a history of smuggling and other crimes. According to current and former employees, NBC executives had already been informed of Ajouj and Qassab’s possible involvement during the kidnapping. NBC had also received GPS data showing the captives being held in a chicken farm that was widely known by local residents and other rebels as being controlled by the rebel group. Nevertheless, NBC had put Richard Engel on the air with an account blaming Shiite captors.\n"}
{"id": "58531218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58531218", "title": "One Last Kiss: End of the Road World Tour", "text": "One Last Kiss: End of the Road World Tour\n\nThe One Last KISS: End of the Road World Tour is the upcoming final concert tour by the American rock band Kiss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4425541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4425541", "title": "Petrodollar warfare", "text": "Petrodollar warfare\n\nThe term, petrodollar warfare, refers to the alleged motivation of US military offensives as preserving by force the status of the United States dollar as the world's dominant reserve currency and as the currency in which oil is priced. The term was coined by William R. Clark, who has written a book with the same title. The phrase \"oil currency war\" is sometimes used with the same meaning.\n\nThe United States dollar remains \"de facto\" world currency. Accordingly, almost all oil sales throughout the world are denominated in United States dollars (USD). Because most countries rely on oil imports, they are forced to maintain large stockpiles of dollars in order to continue imports. This creates a consistent demand for USDs and ostensibly supports the USD's value, regardless of economic conditions in the United States. \n\nAccording to proponents of the petrodollar warfare hypothesis, this in turn allegedly allows the US government to gain revenues through seignorage and by issuing bonds at lower interest rates than supposedly they otherwise would be able to. As a result, the U.S. government, according to this theory, can run higher budget deficits at a more sustainable level than most other countries can. The theory points out that a stronger USD also means that goods imported into the United States are relatively cheap (although the country's exports become relatively more expensive for the rest of the world).\n\nAnother component of the hypothesis is that the price of petroleum is more stable in the U.S. than anywhere else since importers do not need to worry about exchange rate fluctuations. Since the U.S. imports a great deal of oil, its markets are heavily reliant on oil and its derivative products (jet fuel, diesel fuel, gasoline, etc.) for their energy needs. As the price of oil can be an important political factor, U.S. administrations are quite sensitive to the price of oil.\n\nPolitical competitors of the United States therefore have some interest in seeing oil denominated in euros or other currencies. The EU could also theoretically accrue the same benefits if the euro replaced the dollar.\n\nThe petrodollar system originated in the early 1970s in the wake of the Bretton Woods collapse. President Richard Nixon and his Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger, feared that the abandonment of the international gold standard under the Bretton Woods arrangement (combined with a growing US trade deficit, and massive debt associated with the ongoing Vietnam War) would cause a decline in the relative global demand of the U.S. dollar. In a series of meetings, the United States — represented by then U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger — and the Saudi royal family made an agreement. The United States would offer military protection for Saudi Arabia’s oil fields, and in return the Saudi's would price their oil sales exclusively in United States dollars (in other words, the Saudis were to refuse all other currencies, except the U.S. dollar, as payment for their oil exports).\n\nBy 1975, all of the oil-producing nations of OPEC had agreed to price their oil in dollars and to invest surplus oil proceeds in U.S. government debt securities in exchange for similar offers by the U.S.\n\nIn 2000, Iraq converted all its oil transactions under the Oil for Food program to euros, even though the move was deemed by analysts to \"fly in the face of financial logic.\", since, it meant that Iraq would earn less interest on its oil revenues, which were held in a UN-monitored escrow account in New York. Also, the switch would create \"cumbersome new administrative processes\" because Baghdad decided to keep also its existing deposits in dollars, which meant that the oil-for-food program would maintain two accounts, one in dollars and one in euros.\n\nAfter the U.S. invaded Iraq in 2003, Iraq returned the denomination of its oil sales to the US Dollar, despite the greenback's then-fall in value.\n\nThe Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran ostensibly takes this theory as fact. As retaliation to this policy, which is seen by Tehran as \"neoimperialism\", Iran made an effort to create its own bourse, which started selling oil in gold, euros, dollars, and Japanese yen. In mid-2006 Venezuela indicated \"support\" of Iran's decision to offer global oil trade in the euro currency. Muammar Gaddafi, of Libya had tried to implement the gold-for-oil plan, in 2011, and the introduction of a Libyan gold dinar.\n\nIn 2005, William Roberts Clark, Professor and Faculty Associate, Political Science Department, Center for Political Studies, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, published a work which claimed that a \"petrodollar warfare\" was under way between mainly the Euro and the United States Dollar waged in the field of world petroleum trade. \n\nOver the years, multiple scholars expressed the view that the Iraq War conducted to re-assert the dollar hegemony in the wake of Saddam Hussein's attempts to switch from petrodollar in the oil trade and to sell Iraqi oil in exchange for other currencies or commodities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58860773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58860773", "title": "Pine County Fair", "text": "Pine County Fair\n\nThe Pine County Fair is an annual event held at the Pine County Fairgrounds in Pine City, Minnesota, United States. The fair, like many in Minnesota, includes amusement rides, live entertainment and exhibits of farm animals, food, and flowers along with other types of specialty displays. Youth members of 4-H and Future Farmers of America participate by showing their animals and specialty collections. \nPine County Fair’s biggest draw is the Demolition Derby. Considered the “hardest hitting demolition derby in the Midwest”, the derby draws around 100 registrants each year and sells thousands of tickets, bringing in one-third of the total spending at the fair each year. It is held during the first weekend of August.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18758446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18758446", "title": "Protection from Harassment Act 1997", "text": "Protection from Harassment Act 1997\n\nThe Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (c 40) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. On introducing the Bill's second reading in the House of Lords the then Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay of Clashfern said \"The aim of this Bill is to protect the victims of harassment. It will protect all such victims whatever the source of the harassment—so-called stalking behaviour, racial harassment, or anti-social behaviour by neighbours.\" Home Office guidance on the Act says \"The legislation was always intended to tackle stalking, but the offences were drafted to tackle any form of persistent conduct which causes another person alarm or distress.\" \n\nInfield and Platford described the Act as \"controversial\".\n\nThis section prohibits a person from pursuing \"a course of conduct\" which \"amounts to harassment of another\" and which \"he knows or ought to know amounts to harassment of the other\". A person is taken to know that conduct is harassment if \"a reasonable person in possession of the same information would think the course of conduct amounted to harassment of the other\".\n\nThe Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 inserted the offence of stalking in relation to this section and is defined to include things like monitoring a person online, contacting a person, loitering in a public or private place, interfering with property or spying/watching a person.\n\nSection 1(1A) was inserted by section 125(2)(a) of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005. It prohibits a person from pursuing a course of conduct \"which involves harassment of two or more persons\" with the intention of persuading any person (not necessarily one of the persons harassed) to do or refrain from doing something they are lawfully entitled to do or not do.\n\nAccording to Baroness Scotland of Ashall, promoting the Bill in the House of Lords, this provision and the associated provisions of section 3A were intended to strengthen \"the protection afforded to the bioscience industry, and those who work in it\" including by \"making it an offence to protest outside a person's home in a way that causes harassment, alarm or distress to the residents of that home.\"\n\nThis section creates the offence of harassment, which is to pursue \"a course of conduct\" in breach of section 1 of the Act. It is a summary offence. A person guilty of this offence is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a to fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.\n\nSection 2(3) was repealed by section 107 of, and Schedule 8 to, the Police Reform Act 2002.\n\nThe Protection from Harassment Act 1997 did not originally define \"stalking\" or formally proscribe it.\n\nThis section creates a specific offence of stalking. It followed a commitment given by the Prime Minister, David Cameron, on 8 March 2012 (International Women's Day) to remedy perceived deficiencies in the Act.\n\nThe offence created by this section is a summary offence and a person guilty of it is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, or to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or to both.\n\nThis section was inserted by section 111(1) of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.\n\nThis section, which confers, on justices of the peace, a power to issue a search warrant to allow constables to enter and search premises for evidence of offences under section 2A, was inserted by section 112 of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012.\n\nThis section provides for a claim in civil proceedings (creating a statutory tort) by anyone who is or who may be a victim of conduct falling within section 1. It provides for damages for anxiety caused by the harassment and any financial loss it causes, as well as providing for an injunction to restrain the defendant from conduct amounting to harassment. Where any person against whom an injunction has been granted under this section does \"without reasonable excuse\" anything prohibited by that injunction, section 3(6) of the Act makes that person guilty of an offence.\n\nOffences under section 3(6) are triable either way. A person guilty of an offence under section 3(6) is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, or, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both.\n\nThis section provides similar injunction provisions to those in section 3, but in this case applying to the offence created by section 1(1A). However, in addition to it allowing the person who is the victim or who may be the victim of the conduct in question to seek an injunction, it also gives a similar right to someone whose behaviour the harassment is intended to influence.\n\nSection 3A was inserted by section 125(5) of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005.\n\nThis section creates the offence of \"putting people in fear of violence\" where a person \"causes another to fear, on at least two occasions, that violence will be used against him\" provided \"he knows or ought to know that his course of conduct will cause the other so to fear on each of those occasions\".\n\nThere are a number of defences. These include showing that the course of conduct is pursued for the \"purpose of preventing or detecting crime\" or \"reasonable for the protection of himself or another or for the protection of his or another’s property.\"\n\nIn 2001, David Ormerod said that this section \"could have been drafted more clearly all round\".\n\nOffences under section 4 are triable either way. A person guilty of an offence under section 4 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, or, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both.\n\nThis section creates the offence of stalking involving fear of violence or serious alarm or distress. This requires there to be a person A whose \"course of conduct ... amounts to stalking\" and a person B who is affected by the course of conduct. The course of conduct must either cause B \"to fear, on at least two occasions, that violence will be used against B\" or causes B \"serious alarm or distress which has a substantial adverse effect on B's usual day-to-day activities\".\n\nOffences under section 4A are triable either way. A person guilty of an offence under section 4A is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, or, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both.\n\nThis section was inserted by section 111(2) of the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012. The stalking element is defined as include acts like monitoring a person online, contacting a person, loitering in a public or private place, interfering with property or spying/watching a person.\n\nThis section gives a court dealing with a person convicted of an offence under sections 2 (harassment) or 4 (putting in fear of violence) of the Act the power to make a restraining order for the purpose of protecting \"the victim of the offence\" or \"any other person mentioned in the order\".\n\nOffences under section 5 are triable either way. A person guilty of an offence under section 5 is liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, or, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both.\n\nThis section has effect in relation to a person convicted of an offence under section 32 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 as if the reference in subsection (1) of this section to an offence under section 2 or 4 included a reference to an offence under the said section 32.\n\nSection 5(3A) was inserted by section 12(2) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004.\n\nSection 5(4A) was inserted by section 12(3) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004.\n\nSection 5(7) was inserted by section 12(4) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004.\n\nThis section provides for a court to impose a restraining order on someone who has been \"acquitted\" of an offence, if the court considers it necessary \"to protect a person from harassment by the defendant\".\nThis section was inserted by section 12(5) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004.\n\nThis is the interpretation section. \"Harassing\" is defined (non-exclusively) as including \"alarming\" or \"causing distress\".\n\nSection 7(3) was substituted by section 125(7)(a) of the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005. It now provides that a \"course of conduct\" requires either conduct on at least two occasions in relation to one person, or, where the harassment is alleged against two or more occasions, conduct in relation to at least one occasion in relation to each person.\n\nSection 7(3A) was inserted by section 44(1) of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001.\n\nSection 7(5) was inserted by section 125(7)(b) of the Serious Organised \nCrime and Police Act 2005.\n\nSection 8 creates a civil action for harassment applying in Scotland only (sections 1-7 apply only in England and Wales).\n\nThis section was inserted by section 1(2) of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2011 (asp 13).\n\nThe Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (Commencement) (No. 1) Order 1997 (SI 1997/1418) (C 52) was made under section 15(1).\n\nThe following orders were made under section 15(2):\n\nSection 32 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 now provides that where a person commits an offence under section 2 or 4 of the Protection from Harassment Act which is \"racially or religiously aggravated\" within the meaning of section 28 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (as amended by the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001) he is guilty of an offence triable either way. \n\nA person convicted on indictment of an offence falling within section 32(1)(a) of the 1998 Act (the racially or religiously aggravated version of the offence under section 2 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997) is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine, or to both. A person convicted of indictment of an offence falling within section 32(1)(b) of the 1998 Act (the racially or religiously aggravated version of the offence under section 4 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997) is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or to a fine, or to both.\n\nIn England and Wales, the Act now creates offences of harassment, stalking, putting people in fear of violence, stalking involving fear of violence or serious alarm or distress, breach of injunction and breach of restraining order.\n\nSomeone who believes they are the victim of harassment falling within section 1 of the Act may (either instead of or in addition to a criminal prosecution) elect to pursue a civil remedy for damages for anxiety or for financial loss arising from harassment: section 3(2). Section 3 creates a statutory tort based on the same acts as the criminal offence. An example of this tort in action appears in \"Green v DB Group Services (UK) Ltd\" [2006] EWHC 1898 QB (1 August 2006). which was a case of severe and prolonged workplace bullying resulting in serious illness of the claimant.\n\nIf a claimant elects to pursue the section 3 civil law remedy, the standard of proof which needs to be shown is the common law standard of proof on \"the balance of probabilities\" (more likely than not) rather than the standard for criminal law which is proof beyond reasonable doubt.\n\nThe editor of \"Archbold\" notes the Act does not attempt to define \"harassment\". In \"Thomas v News Group Newspapers and Another\" (2001), Lord Philips MR said: \"'Harassment' is, however, a word which has a meaning which is generally understood. It describes conduct targeted at an individual which is calculated to produce the consequences described in section 7 and which is oppressive and unreasonable.\"\n\nSection 7(2) of the Act provides that, for the purpose of the interpretation of sections 1 to 5A, references to harassing a person include alarming the person or causing the person distress.\n\nSection 5 of the Act gives the court in criminal cases a power to grant restraining orders and section 5A, introduced by the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004, extends this power to cases where the defendant was acquitted, if the court \"considers it necessary to do so to protect a person from harassment by the defendant.\". The power to grant restraining orders was characterised as \"the most important aspect of the Act\" by practitioners interviewed in a Home Office research study (2000) into the effectiveness of the Act. The power to grant restraining orders is separate from and additional to the ability of claimants to seek injunctions in civil actions brought under section 3 of the Act. However, in each case the penalties for breach of a restraining order or an injunction are similar: on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or a fine, or both, or on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or both.\n\nThe summary offences of harassment \"cast the net too wide\". The offence created by section 2 is \"broad and ill-defined\". Its scope is \"quite enormous\". It might well violate Articles 10 and 11 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (in addition to Article 7 mentioned below). \n\nSection 7(3) of the Act provides that a course of conduct must involve conduct on at least two occasions. (Originally these occasions needed to involve the same person, but the Act was amended by the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005 so that \"pursuing a course of conduct\" could mean approaching two people just once.)\n\nIn Wainwright v. Home Office (2003), Lord Hoffmann said \"The requirement of a course of conduct shows that Parliament was conscious that it might not be in the public interest to allow the law to be set in motion for one boorish incident.\"\n\nThe Act contains no definition of \"course of conduct\" beyond the provisions of sections 7(3) and (4). Case law has established that \"merely because there are two incidents between the same parties, this will not inevitably give rise to a course of conduct\" and \"the requirement of a nexus between the incidents appears an eminently sensible way in which to limit the potentially immense reach of the offence of harassment.\" In 2003, David Ormerod said that the \"course of conduct\" element defies definition.\n\nConstructive knowledge or actual knowledge is an element of the offences under sections 2, 2A, 4 and 4A; that is, the prosecution has to show that the defendant \"knows or ought to know\" that the course of conduct complained of has the prescribed effects on the person at whom it is directed. The test of \"ought to know\" is based on what \"a reasonable person in possession of the same information\" would think about the course of conduct in question. Section 4(2) \"has an unusual type of \"mens rea\" with objective and subjective components.\" The justification for the imposition of liability based on constructive knowledge is the difficulty which might exist of proving \"mens rea\" on the part of \"stalkers\" who often suffer from mental or personality disorders.\n\nThere are a multitude of thresholds within the act and law, the protection from harassment act does NOT comply with the rule of law as there is uncertainty, due to the issues of criminal and civil liability, the reasonable person, the day to day dealings with others, and where there is Section 1 (3) of the act, setting out reasonable (S1 (3) (c)) to comply with a rule of law or order under any enactment (S1 (3) (b) and for the detection and prevention of crime S1 (3) (a). in Majrowski v Guy’s and St. Thomas’s NHS Trust [2007] 1 AC 224 was a mention of the Threshold for harassment to \"sustain a criminal liability\"\nPara 30:\n\"In most cases courts should have little difficulty in applying the 'close connection' test. Where the claim meets that requirement, and the quality of the conduct said to constitute harassment is being examined, courts will have in mind that irritations, annoyances, even a measure of upset, arise at times in everybody's day-to-day dealings with other people. Courts are well able to recognise the boundary between conduct which is unattractive, even unreasonable, and conduct which is oppressive and unacceptable. To cross the boundary from the regrettable to the unacceptable the gravity of the misconduct must be of an order which would sustain criminal liability under section 2.\"\n\nunfortunately this boundary is a discretion of the court and judges and is NOT applied in most courts across the UK. The issue with conduct which will cause alarm and distress as a civil liability or for a \"cause to action\" is a \"subjective\" and often \"tainted\" view which has elements of heuristic bias as will the \"defendant\" to a claim of harassment.\nCriminal charges undertaken where a person is using S1 (3) has a difficult task in what appears to be at every stage of the proceeding's ( including pre actions Protocols) in UKSC 17 (2013) Lord Reed Said at para 29:\n\"That Parliament should have intended section 1(3)(a) to apply, regardless of whether the pursuit of the course of conduct was objectively reasonable or not, may at first sight seem surprising, given that the conduct must otherwise constitute harassment before section 1(3)(a) can come into play.\"\n\nTherefore the issue arises where a defendant must be found criminally guilty before they can make a defence, however the main defect in the court is that they only seek to find harassment, but stop at any defence or \"avowed\" purpose and the Supreme court commented on the difficulty in the matter of the two tests applied which are subjective and objective. \n\nUKSC17 (2013) at P12:\n\n\"A wholly subjective test, on the other hand, such as the one that the judge applied to Mr Willoughby, is equally problematic. Before the defence can arise, it must be shown that the victim has been harassed\"\n\"I do not doubt that in the context of section 1(3)(a) purpose is a subjective state of mind. But in my opinion, the necessary control mechanism is to be found in the concept of rationality, which Eady J touched on in Howlett v Holding [2006] EWHC 41 (QB) and Moses LJ seems to have been reaching for in his judgment in the present case. Rationality is a familiar concept in public law.\"\n\nAlarm and distress was set out in the Data protection act 1998 S10, however was modified in 2017 to \"significant Alarm and distress\" a short coming within the enactment of harassment which has been largely undefined and illegal since its first concepts.\n\nEmployers have vicarious liability for harassment by their employees under section 3 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (see \"Majrowski v Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Trust\"). For employees this may provide an easier route to compensation than claims based on discrimination legislation or personal injury claims for stress at work, as the elements of harassment are likely to be easier to prove, the statutory defence is not available to the employer, and it may be easier to establish a claim for compensation. Also as the claim can be made in either the High Court or the County Court costs may be recoverable by the successful party, subject to relevant court rules and limits.\n\nThe Bill for this Act said that it was expected to result in about two hundred prosecutions a year. In 1998, there were nearly six \"thousand\" prosecutions. A written question, raised by a Member of Parliament in 2008 and relating to prosecutions under section 2 from the date of the Act to 2006, showed the numbers of persons proceeded against under section 2 remained fairly steady during the period (5,540 in 1999 of whom 2,753 were found guilty, 5,446 in 2006 of whom 3,768 were found guilty). A 2011 written question requesting information about prosecutions under section 2 during the period 2006-2009 showed 5,006 persons proceeded against during 2006-7 of whom 3,543 were found guilty, 4,940 proceeded against during 2007-8 of whom 3,650 were found guilty and 4,865 proceeded against during 2008-9 of whom 3,892 were found guilty.\n\nThe Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 (SI 1997/1180) (NI 9) was made under paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Act 1974 (as modified by section 13 of this Act) only for purposes corresponding to those of sections 1 to 7 and 12 of this Act.\n\nIn Scotland the Act works differently. Civil remedies include damages, interdict and non-harassment orders backed by powers of arrest. Any person who is in breach of a non-harassment order made under section 8 is guilty of an offence and liable, on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to a fine, or to both, and, on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months, or to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum, or to both. A breach of a non-harassment order is not otherwise punishable.\n\nSome Scots lawyers are of the view that there was no need for this Act to extend to Scotland because the law of Scotland already dealt satisfactorily with harassment and contained no relevant lacuna corresponding to any which existed in English law.\n\nThe Act resulted from the efforts of Evonne Leonora Von Heussen. A stalking victim herself, she launched the National Association for Victims of Stalking and Harassment (NASH) in 1993, when her then teen-age daughter was stalked by a dangerous character who was known to carry a knife. After Von Heussen found that she could get no help from the police, lawyers, or her local Member of Parliament she began researching anti-stalking laws in other countries. She opened a help line on which she eventually took tens of thousands of calls. She pursued each call with each victim's MP, and attracted a large amount of media attention. After several years of effort she persuaded the Home Office under Prime Minister John Major to take the issue on as a matter of government policy. She wrote the first draft of the Act and worked closely with ministers and senior civil servants in the Home Office and the Lord Chancellor's Department as the final version took shape. She advised ministers from her seat in the Under Gallery, on the floor of the House of Commons, during the Second Reading Debate. After Royal Assent she worked with Home Office and Lord Chancellor's Department in training judges, lawyers, other court personnel, police and voluntary organizations in the use of the Act. She received the MBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List (1997) for her efforts. She also worked as a consultant on a number of court cases involving stalking and harassment.\n\nThe Protection from Harassment Act 1997 was preceded by the Stalking Bill.\n\nThe passing of this Act was \"hasty\". There was an \"unseemly rush\" to get the Bill for this Act through all of its stages in Parliament. This was the result of political agitation.\n\nThis Act is \"unimpressive\", \"unsatisfactory\", has \"inadequacies\" and has been called \"a breach of human rights\". A \"better solution\" is said to be needed. It is \"unfortunate\" that a maximum penalty of imprisonment for a term of five years has been applied to offences that can be committed through mere negligence.\n\n\"Some magistrates felt criminalising harassment cases might lead to unfounded accusations from complainants who are mistaken about another’s behaviour or are even vindictive. Prosecutors accepted this point and agreed that they had to be on the lookout for what the police sometimes termed paranoid woman syndrome, where the putative victim read more into another's behaviour than was perhaps warranted.\" However, \"they agreed that the difficulties in pursuing harassment cases were no greater than other kinds of case – such as domestic violence – where the parties are often well known to each other.\"\n\nIn February 2012, the Rt Hon Elfyn Llwyd MP, chairing an Independent Parliamentary Inquiry into reform of stalking law, said the Act was \"not an effective tool against stalking\". \"[T]oo many perpetrators were falling through the net.\" The \"attitudes of many working in the criminal justice system and society towards stalking remain in the dark ages.\"\n\nCommentators such as George Monbiot have voiced the concern that the amended Act effectively \"allows the police to ban any campaign they please\", and that it has been used to prosecute peaceful protestors.\n\nAddison thought that the Act was being misused and suggested it be amended so as to decriminalize harassment (but not breach of a court order prohibiting harassment). He said that if the Act was not amended \"there is a clear danger that it could come to be seen as an oppressive piece of legislation\".\n\nThe drafting of this Act is \"deficient\". It is so bad that it might well violate Article 7 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Act is \"deplorably vague\".\n\nIn February 2012, the Rt Hon Elfyn Llwyd MP, chairing an Independent Parliamentary Inquiry into reform of stalking law, said the Act was a \"landmark piece of legislation\".\n\nThe Act \"is an effective weapon in the armoury of the victim of nuisance creditors.\" It is \"a versatile and wide-ranging statute\" and \"one of the most flexible pieces of legislation of recent years.\"\nThis Act was initially \"doing its job quite happily\". Infield and Platford said that they did not agree with claims that this Act is a breach of human rights.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Act, police forces started to issue \"prevention of harassment\" notices, also known as \"Police Information Notices\" (PINs), to people against whom claims of harassment had been made. They are believed to have been created by police forces as a way of preventing people accused of harassment from claiming ignorance that their alleged behavior was undesired and thus avoiding successful prosecution under the Act due to lack of \"mens rea\". Their use has been the subject of controversy, with some describing the notices as \"unnecessarily menacing and accusatorial\".\n\nIn November 2011, whilst Theresa May was Home Secretary, the Home Office published a consultation on stalking which said: \"We recognise that there are concerns around the process by which these notices are issued. Some argue that those issued with a Police Information Notice are not given a fair hearing. Equally we are aware that some consider Police Information Notices to lack teeth and that they give victims a false sense of security.\" \n\nIn 2014, the Commons Select Committee of Privileges investigated the issuing in 2012 of a PIN against an MP for statements made in Parliament. Their findings led the police to withdraw the notice. \n\nIn 2015, the issuing of a PIN against a British journalist raised concerns about civil liberties and press freedom, creating demands for reform of the process.\n\nBecause a PIN has no statutory basis and therefore no legal effect, there is no right of appeal against it, although a complaint can be made to the issuing police force.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8259235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8259235", "title": "Roots: The Next Generations", "text": "Roots: The Next Generations\n\nRoots: The Next Generations is an American television miniseries, introduced in 1979, continuing, from 1882 to the 1960s, the fictionalized story of the family of Alex Haley and their life in Henning, Lauderdale County, Tennessee, USA. (Henning is about 48 miles north of Memphis, which is on the Mississippi River and in the southwest corner of the state, and which was then the largest city in it.) This sequel to the 1977 miniseries is based on the last seven chapters of Haley's novel entitled \"\" plus additional material by Haley.\n\n\"Roots: The Next Generations\" was produced with a budget of $16.6 million, nearly three times as large as that of the original. The screenplay was written by Ernest Kinoy.\n\nFor the first part of the story, see \"Roots\"\n\nThe story resumes in 1882, 12 years after the arrival of \"Chicken George\" Moore (Avon Long) and his family in Henning, in West Tennessee. George, elderly and showing his age, moves in with Tom Harvey (Georg Stanford Brown), one of his sons, along with Tom’s wife, Irene (Lynne Moody), and their two daughters, Elizabeth and Cynthia. Tom, a great-grandson of Kunta Kinte, has become a leader of the black community in Henning. Although he has established a working relationship with the town's white leader, Col. Frederick Warner (Henry Fonda), a former officer in the Confederate Army, race relations are strained, due in part to the new Jim Crow laws and similar influences.\n\nCol. Warner's younger son, Jim (Richard Thomas), meets and falls in love with Carrie Barden (Fay Hauser), an attractive young African-American schoolteacher and a graduate of Fisk University, a black school in Nashville (the capital of the state and in Middle Tennessee). Tom has taken the lead in hiring Carrie for the local school for the black children. Col. Warner disapproves of the relationship between Jim and Carrie, so he seeks to persuade Tom to fire Carrie or to close the school. After an argument between Tom and his older daughter, Elizabeth (Debbi Morgan), about his refusal to accept her suitor, John Dolan (Brian Stokes Mitchell), because he is half white, Tom decides to allow Carrie to continue teaching. Jim and Carrie marry in Memphis, then Col. Warner disinherits Jim (by removing him from his will), but he says that he will ensure that no harm comes to the couple from the hoodlum white element of the town. Jim, with his new bride, receives a warm welcome to the local black church.\n\nA year later, Chicken George dies in 1883 at age 83, and the family bury his body beside that of his wife, Mathilda \"Tildy\", who died in 1875 at age 76.\n\nIn August 1896, 13 years later, Elizabeth, Tom's older daughter, arrives from Kansas City, Missouri, for an extended visit, amid tension between Tom and Elizabeth, due to Tom's rejection of her suitor years before.\n\nCynthia \"Cinthy\" (Bever-Leigh Banfield), Tom's younger daughter, meets and falls in love with Will Palmer (Stan Shaw), an ambitious and hard-working young man; after a properly supervised courtship the couple marry in their church.\n\nAndrew Warner (Marc Singer), an unemployed playboy and the older son of Col. Warner, becomes interested in politics, and he eventually opposes his father in the public arena.\n\nWhile Will works for Bob Campbell (Harry Morgan) at his lumberyard, he does so in such an enthusiastic, industrious, and effective way that he attracts the attention of both Col. Warner and T.J. Calloway (John Carter), the local banker. Because of Campbell's increasing problems with alcohol and his decreasing attention to his business, and after Campbell's default on his loan from the bank, Calloway forecloses, takes over the lumberyard, sells it to Will, and finances his purchase. Thus the R. Campbell Lumber Company becomes the W.E. Palmer Lumber Company.\n\nBy this time Jim and Carrie already have a son, named Frank \"Frankie\" (Marcus Chong), and they live peacefully and happily in the black community of Henning.\n\nHowever, in the atmosphere of the growing anti-black attitudes in the South during the 1890s, racial tension increases in Henning too, as several incidents demonstrate. For example, Tom suddenly becomes turned away when he again applies to register to vote, and he forcefully insists that every time since the Civil War he has voted without interference, in both Alamance County, North Carolina, and in Lauderdale County, Tennessee.\n\nWill and Cinthy rejoice over the birth of their daughter, Bertha George, named in part in honor of Chicken George, one of her great-grandfathers.\n\nBy September 1914, after 17 more years, telephones, electricity, and automobiles have arrived in Henning, both the town and Will Palmer's lumber company have grown, both Tom and Irene Harvey have died, as has Mrs. Warner, and Andrew Warner, the colonel's older son, now serves as a member of the US House of Representatives.\n\nDr. Frank Warner (E. Lamont Johnson), the son of Jim and Carrie Warner, has completed undergraduate college, medical school, an internship, and a residency, and he's about to start his medical practice. Cinthy calls him \"the first colored doctor in the county\".\n\nWill has prospered well enough that Will and Cynthia send their daughter, Bertha (Irene Cara), to Lane College, a black school in Jackson, Tennessee.\n\nCol. Warner, frail and confused, collapses on a street while Jim, Carrie, and Frank are present nearby. They rush to him, and Frank starts to treat him. However, Earl Crowther (Paul Koslo), the Warner chauffeur, and a gang of rednecks take charge, ignore both Jim and Frank and nudge them aside, and insult Frank, who predicts that the colonel will die before they get him to the white physician. He does indeed die.\n\nAt the college Bertha meets and soon falls in love with Simon Alexander Haley (Dorian Harewood), a waiter in the dining room and a son of a sharecropper, who lives and works near Savannah, Hardin County, Tennessee, about 116 miles due east of Memphis. Simon, who greatly admires Booker T. Washington, quotes to Bertha from his writings, including these words: \"The wisest among my race understand that the agitation of questions of social equality is the extremest folly, and that progress in the enjoyment of all the privileges to come to us must be the result of severe and constant struggle rather than artificial forcing\". Referring to Washington, Simon says, \"I have formed my life in his image\".\n\nThe Ku Klux Klan (KKK) resurges in Henning. They burn a cross, hold a parade, and burn down the clothing store of a Jewish merchant, Mr. Goldstein (Jiří Voskovec), who has moved to Henning from Chicago, Illinois, and who returns there.\n\nSimon leaves Lane College, and he has made plans to continue his education at the Agricultural and Technical (A&T) College of North Carolina (which later becomes renamed as the North Carolina Agricultural and Technical (A&T) State University), in Greensboro, North Carolina. He has applied to enroll in the school and has arranged to work on the campus to pay for his room and board.\n\nHis father, Alec Haley (Hal Williams) has promised him $50 to pay for his tuition, but now he tells him that he cannot keep his promise because of the recent poor crops due to floods and boll weevils. To avoid becoming an indebted sharecropper himself, Simon works the summer as a railway porter for the Pullman Company. He works with an older porter, Dad Jones (Ossie Davis), who becomes his fatherly friend and—in one instance with another porter—his protector. During one trip Simon meets and talks with a kindly and wealthy passenger, R.S.M. Boyce (James Daly), an executive of the Curtis Publishing Company, the publisher of \"The Saturday Evening Post\" and several other well-known magazines. They discuss Simon's plans and difficulties. When Boyce steps off the train, he hands to Simon a generous tip and one of his business cards, inviting him to inform him of his progress. When Simon leaves his position to return to school, he learns that Dad was fired for discussing unionization of the porters with a labor spy. When Simon arrives at the college, he learns that Boyce has already paid for the coming year in full for his textbooks, tuition, and room and board.\n\nSimon and Bertha continue to keep in touch with each other, and Bertha and her parents, Will and Cynthia, travel to Simon's graduation, where he will receive his bachelor's degree in agriculture. When the family arrives at the campus, Bertha receives a message that Simon and six of his classmates have just left and enlisted in the US Army for service in the World War (the \"Great War\", later renamed as World War I). The young couple see each other briefly when Simon and his all-black platoon of recruits board a train to go to the next stage in his life.\n\nDuring May 1918 Simon receives his basic training in an all-black company at Camp Grant, Illinois, near Rockford, about 85 miles west-northwest of Chicago, then he, in an all-black outfit, goes to France and takes part in the fighting against the German Army of Kaiser Wilhelm II.\n\nBefore Simon goes overseas, Bertha meets Simon in Chicago for a weekend (after Cinthy pleads Bertha's case with Will, who first has vigorously opposed such a trip but eventually allows it).\n\nWhile Simon is in the Army in France, Cousin Georgia Anderson (Lynn Hamilton), from Kansas City, visits Will and Cinthy, and she reveals that Chicken George fought with the Union Army during the Battle of Fort Pillow, due west of Henning, on the Chickasaw Bluffs, overlooking the Mississippi River. (That point implies that he survived the infamous Massacre of Fort Pillow.)\n\nIn July 1918 Simon receives word in France that his father has died in a hospital in Memphis; in due time, after the end of the war, Simon returns to the U.S.\n\nAndy Warner raises his political sights even higher, and he becomes elected to the US Senate.\n\nAfter the Army discharges Simon, on his way back home to Henning, he and several friends stop at the home of one of them in Knoxville, in East Tennessee. While they are there, the Knoxville Riot of 1919 (a part of the Red Summer of 1919) takes place. Earl Crowther, now an aide to Sen. Andrew Warner, goes to Knoxville to take part in the mischief, and he dies there (at the hands of one of Simon's Army buddies).\n\nSimon arrives in Henning and receives a robust welcome, especially from Bertha, and the young couple move ahead with the plans for their wedding.\n\nWill builds an attractive bungalow for Bertha and Simon, assuming that they will settle in Henning, but without asking about their own plans.\n\nOn the first Sunday after the completion of the house, the wedding takes place in their church building, then everyone adjourns to the front lawn of the new home for the reception, and a number of white friends and neighbors join them. Among them are Sen. Andy Warner and his fancy new wife, from Washington, DC, and New York City, who arrive in a Rolls-Royce open touring car with a chauffeur.\n\nAfterward Mr. and Mrs. Simon Haley motor away in a Ford Model T to Cornell University, in Ithaca, New York, where Simon will start working on his master's degree in agriculture.\n\nLater Will and Cinthy move into the bungalow. (The house still stands; it is now known as the Alex Haley House and Museum, and, as a state-owned historic site, is open to the public.)\n\nIn November 1921 Simon and Bertha return to Henning to visit Will and Cinthy, and they surprise them with their three-month-old son, Alexander Murray Palmer Haley, whom Will promptly carries outside, lifts up, and ceremonially shows the Moon, in a tradition which was first portrayed in the first \"Roots\" series by Omoro Kinte and baby Kunta Kinte in The Gambia in West Africa in 1750 (though, in the first \"Roots\", the tradition was a naming ritual, where the father held the naked child to the stars, gave the child a name, and said, \"behold the only thing greater than yourself.\").\n\nLate in the summer of 1932, after 11 more years, during the Great Depression, Simon, Bertha, and their children stay temporarily in the bungalow with Will and Cynthia. At age 10 Alex (Christoff St. John, who later respelled his first name as Kristoff) has two younger brothers, George (Stevan Crutchfield), named for Chicken George, and Julius (Ticker Thompson). While working at Will's lumberyard, Simon unsuccessfully tries to show Will better methods for bookkeeping and inventory control, but Will regards and uses him as a manual laborer.\n\nShortly, however, Simon receives a special-delivery letter offering him a job as a professor of agriculture at the State Agricultural and Mechanical (A&M) Institute for Negroes, in Normal, Alabama. (The school later becomes renamed as the Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical (A&M) University; the campus and the former town of Normal, named for the normal school established there, now lie within the city limits of Huntsville.)\n\nSimon promptly and joyfully accepts his appointment, and he and his family move to Normal in their Chevrolet four-door sedan.\n\nNot only does Prof. Haley teach his students in the classrooms and laboratories, but he also approaches the local farmers and, with little success, tells them about techniques which would enable them to replenish the soil and to produce better crops, using simple techniques, such as crop rotation. He meets Lyle Pettijohn (Robert Culp), the county agricultural agent and a son of a sharecropper in Greene County, Tennessee, so the two of them easily find mutual interests and objectives.\n\nHowever, both Simon and Pettijohn meet resistance and incite violent reprisals by the white landowners.\n\nSoon afterward Will dies in Henning.\n\nWhile Bertha is out of town with the two younger sons for the funeral, Simon and Alex spend some special time together, during which Simon says to him, \"There's one thing poor people have in common no matter who they are, they have no education. Education is the key; it's the way up, the way out. That's why you must do well in school Alex, not only for yourself but to help others as well\".\n\nIn May 1933 Bertha starts to show subtle signs of a threatening illness, and those symptoms continue during a summer vacation with the aging Cynthia (Beah Richards) in Henning.\n\nWhen Simon and his family return to Normal, they find that his antagonists have broken in, damaged their home, and destroyed much of their property.\n\nOne afternoon Simon returns to his home and learns that Bertha has experienced a relapse in her illness, and that her condition has become serious. Minutes later, because of internal bleeding due to an undisclosed problem, Bertha dies in Simon's arms while Alex watches.\n\nSoon Simon drives his three sons to Henning, where the boys move into the bungalow with Cynthia and Elizabeth. On the front porch of the bungalow Alex listens to Cynthia, Elizabeth, and sometimes Cousin Georgia, while they retell the stories about Kunta Kinte, Kizzy, Chicken George, Tom, and the others.\n\nShortly afterward Grandma Cinthy shows Alex a large cross-section disc cut from the trunk of a redwood tree in California, and she explains it to him. Will has marked the annual rings of the trunk in such a way as to indicate the years when various relatives had been born, and when several major world events had occurred.\n\nOn May 1, 1939, seven years later, at age 17 Alex (Damon Evans) arrives in Elizabeth City, North Carolina, where Simon now lives with Zeona (Diahann Carroll), his second wife, and where he now teaches agriculture at the Elizabeth City State Teachers College (a black school, later renamed as the Elizabeth City State University). Alex promptly sees that Zeona is pregnant. Although he was bright enough to enter college at age 15, his academic work has become so lackluster and mediocre that he has dropped out of the Alcorn Agricultural and Mechanical (A&M) College (another black school, later renamed as the Alcorn State University), near Lorman, Mississippi. Simon strongly encourages Alex to enlist in one of the branches of the armed forces, in the expectation that two or three years of military life will cause and allow him to gain maturity.\n\nIn August 1939 Alex enlists in the US Coast Guard in Portsmouth, Virginia, and he reports directly aboard a cutter, USCGC \"Mendota\" (WHEC-69), without receiving the benefit of any boot camp or other basic training. However, Percival \"Scotty\" Scott (John Hancock), a gruff but kindly steward's mate first-class, the leading petty officer in the wardroom area among the mess attendants and steward's mates, takes Alex in tow. Alex begins as a mess attendant, starting on the career path toward his becoming a steward's mate, one of the few ratings available to black enlisted men in either the Navy or the Coast Guard during the era of World War II (WW2). (The real USCGC \"Mendota\" (WHEC-69) served 1945-73.)\n\nWhile attending a church-sponsored dance for servicemen and local ladies, Alex meets Nan Branch (Debbie Allen), a timid, attractive, naïve, single young woman, and they continue to meet at the church dances. On the eighth such meeting Alex proposes marriage to Nan, and she accepts. They soon marry, then they visit Simon, Zeona, and their new baby, in Elizabeth City. Simon expresses disapproval because Alex has departed from his plan for him, and Zeona urges Simon to stop interfering.\n\nMeanwhile, on December 7, 1941 the Empire of Japan attacks the USA at Pearl Harbor in the Territory of Hawaii, thus drawing the US into the new war. By this time Scotty has advanced to the rate of chief petty officer (chief steward's mate).\n\nBy July 1942 Alex and Chief Scott are somewhere in the South Pacific Ocean aboard USS \"Murzim\" (AK-95), an ammunition ship, one of several Naval vessels manned by Coast Guard crews during WW2. Scotty asks Alex why he receives so many letters, and he answers, in effect, that, if he wishes to receive letters, then he must write letters – to friends and relatives back home. Then, at Scotty's request, Alex writes a love letter for Scotty to a girlfriend in Auckland, New Zealand, where the ship will make a port visit about two months later. The letter works so well that Scotty sets up Alex to write love letters for other shipmates for one dollar apiece. Thus Alex enters the writing business. (The real USS \"Murzim\" (AK-95) served 1943-46.)\n\nWhile at sea Alex receives the news that Nan has given birth to a girl, and that she has given her mother's name, Lydia, to their baby. Alex expresses his pleasure about his new fatherhood, yet he says that he had wanted to give the girl the name of Cynthia, his maternal grandmother.\n\nWorld War II ends, and both Simon and Alex start thinking about their respective plans for Alex. Simon makes a train journey to California, where he meets Alex at the Coast Guard Station on Yerba Buena Island, in the San Francisco Bay. Alex has advanced to the rate of petty officer first-class (steward's mate first-class). Simon and Alex articulate a sharp disagreement about the differences between their plans for Alex; Simon wants him to return to academia, but Alex intends to stay in the Coast Guard at least until he decides or discovers what else he should do. (Simon expresses a dream that Alex might become even a president of a university.)\n\nAlex returns to the East Coast and to Nan and Lydia, and Nan again becomes pregnant. Alex requests and gets an assignment in New York City, so that he can live and work closer to the editors there, because of his intense interest in writing and his goal to become a published author.\n\nIn November 1946 he and his family, in their Ford woodie station wagon, head northward to his next duty station, and they encounter not only racial discrimination but also frustration and disappointment while seeking a room in a motel or \"auto court\". Alex starts working, writing press releases in the public-relations (PR) office of the Coast Guard in Manhattan. While off duty he starts writing proposed articles and submitting them to magazines, but he receives only rejection slips.\n\nCdr. Robert Munroe (Andy Griffith), the officer in charge of the PR office, a Southerner with 30 years of experience in journalism, dismisses Alex's early writings as amateur but takes an interest in Alex, his work, and his plans, and he offers him constructive advice and guidance.\n\nAlex continues to work hard on his writing, both on duty and off duty. He spends so much time on his own writing that Nan begins to complain, saying that he neglects her and their two children, Lydia (Kim Fields) and Billy (Joel Herd), by giving them so little time and attention.\n\nWhile on annual leave from the Coast Guard, Alex and his family visit Cynthia, Elizabeth, and Cousin Georgia in the bungalow in Henning, and, partly with the encouragement of Grandma Cinthy, he starts to feel a need or wish to learn more about the roots of his family. (During that visit Cinthy tells Alex that the old slice from the redwood tree has become hauled away to a dump because insects had begun reducing it to sawdust.)\n\nAlex continues to feel much frustration and disappointment about his lack of success in civilian commercial writing.\n\nAlex seeks and in 1949 receives a change of his rating from steward's mate first-class to journalist first-class, and he remains as a journalist (no longer in the wardroom area). Later he advances to the rate of chief petty officer (chief journalist, the first chief journalist in the Coast Guard), and he continues as a chief journalist for the remainder of his 20-year military career.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 1950 Mel Klein (Milt Kogan), an independent writer on an assignment from a magazine editor, consults Alex, to get some statistics to go into a new article about the Coast Guard, and Alex asks Mel for advice. Mel tells him about \"Coronet\", a small-format magazine (somewhat similar to the \"Reader's Digest\"), which, according to Mel, can't get enough short (600-word) human-interest stories.\n\nIn response to Mel's advice Alex that same night dives into his work after hours in the office and submerges himself in his writing and rewriting – to the extent that he loses sight of his special duties to his family that special night – to take home the gifts and the tree, for which Nan and the kids have prepared a place in their apartment, and which they have awaited and anticipated.\n\nSometime after sunrise on Christmas Day, Alex finally arrives at their apartment – barely in time to see Nan and their children as they walk out and step into a taxicab – because Nan has decided to leave Alex and to move in with her mother in her home. Nan and Alex later divorce.\n\nIn October 1960 Simon, Alex (James Earl Jones), George (Howard Rollins), and others gather in Henning for the funeral of Aunt Lizzie. George is an attorney and a state senator (and the second black graduate of the School of Law at the University of Arkansas), Julius is an architect, and Alex is, as he describes himself, a professional writer with a respectable living. Simon implies that he does not feel as pleased with the accomplishments of Alex as he does with those of his two younger brothers.\n\nIn 1960, Alex meets Malcolm X (Al Freeman Jr.), and later he interviews him and a number of other notable people, including George Lincoln Rockwell (Marlon Brando), while writing for \"Playboy\" and the \"Reader's Digest\".\n\nAlex, as a co-author, writes also \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\", and he finishes it several weeks before the assassination of the subject person.\n\nWhile Alex makes another visit in Henning, Cousin Georgia encourages him and his curiosity about his family heritage, then Alex continues his research – to the National Archives, a private source in North Carolina, a historical society in Annapolis, the headquarters of the United Nations, and eventually to the village of Jufureh in The Gambia in West Africa. Before Alex leaves for West Africa, Simon reconciles with his son, saying that he is proud of Alex's work on \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\".\n\nIn Jufureh, Alex listens to a native griot (a tribal oral historian), who tells about a young Mandinka man, Kunta Kinte, who went out to fetch wood to make a drum and was never again seen. Thus, Alex concludes that he has truly discovered his ancestor and his history in Africa.\n\nAs with the original, the new series again concludes with a postscript by Alex himself, who encourages viewers to explore their own genealogy, in part by interviewing their older relatives, consulting written records, and holding family reunions.\n\nFor the first part of the story, see \"Roots\".\n\nProducers Stan Margulies and David L. Wolper were initially reluctant to make a sequel to the 1977 miniseries, but later agreed to do it. Writer Ernest Kinoy then originally wrote an outline for \"Roots: The Next Generations\" based on the final seven chapters of Alex Haley's book \"\" and about 1,000 pages worth of family recollections that Alex Haley dictated into a tape recorder.\n\nThe producers aimed for casting high quality actors, and basically had no trouble signing the people they wanted because of the success of the first miniseries. While Georg Stanford Brown reprises his role as Tom Harvey, James Earl Jones was selected partially due to his physical resemblance to Haley. Wanting to also participate in the miniseries, Marlon Brando basically just called out of the blue and asked for a small yet memorable role; he was cast as George Lincoln Rockwell and won an Emmy Award for his performance.\n\n\"Roots: The Next Generations\" originally aired on ABC as 7 two-hour episodes for consecutive nights from February 18 to February 24, 1979.\n\nThe miniseries was watched by an estimated 110 million viewers and averaged a 30.1 rating and 45% share of the audience.\nPart I aired a week prior to the rest of the series in the ratings.\n\nPrimetime Emmy Awards:\n\nGolden Globe Awards:\n\nPrimetime Emmy Awards:\n\nIn July and September 2007, the network TV One reran the series hosted by several of the original cast including Lynne Moody, Dorian Harewood, Stan Shaw, Kristoff St. John, and Irene Cara.\n\nThe miniseries was released on DVD by Warner Bros. on October 9, 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18248967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18248967", "title": "Rosie's Theater Kids", "text": "Rosie's Theater Kids\n\nRosie's Theater Kids, formerly known as Rosie's Broadway Kids, is a non-profit arts education organization started by actress and comedian Rosie O'Donnell. RTKids was founded in 2003 and continually provides training in dance, music, and drama for students attending New York City public schools.\n\nIt is based on the Maravel Arts Center, 445 W. 45th St., in Hell's Kitchen, Manhattan. The center is named for O'Donnel's teacher Pat Maravel who was instrumental in O'Donnell's interest in theatre.\n\nRosie's Theater Kids is an arts education organization dedicated to enriching the lives of children through the arts.\nUsing professional teaching artists, Rosie's Theater Kids offers classes in dance and music and a professional theater experience for children who might otherwise not have the opportunity.\nIts goal is to inspire excellence, motivate learning, uplift the human spirit, and to instill a lifelong appreciation of the arts.\n\nPS Broadway is the RTKids in-school program for NYC public school fifth-\ngraders. During the year, RTKids staff members teach dance and music as part of a 15-week program that serves 22 schools throughout Manhattan. As part of this program, every class of students takes a free trip to see a Broadway musical and then participates in a question-and-answer session with performers, directors, conductors, and members of the production's technical staff. Each semester this program is wrapped up with a school assembly where the kids can perform for their peers, parents, and teachers.\n\nACTE II is Rosie's Theater Kids scholarship program in which outstanding graduates of PS Broadway get the opportunity to receive further training in free after-school classes in ballet, tap, jazz, voice, and drama. Part of ACTE II is the Summer Intensive: an all-day, Monday through Friday summer program that provides group classes and private lessons, preparing the students for a final performance for family, friends, and industry professionals.\n\nDeveloped in collaboration with a school-based health care program and the NYC Department of Education, Spotlight on Fitness (SoFit) is a physical education program that fulfills state and local curriculum requirements in both the arts and physical education.\n\nThe newest initiative of RTKids, A+ (Arts-Plus) provides supplementary tools to \nenhance the academic achievement of the ACTE II students at the secondary level. This program includes after-school tutoring, High School admission guidance, private coaching and preparation for performing arts school auditions (both high school and collegiate), and professional PSAT and SAT preparatory classes. So far, with the individual coaching and assistance from RTKids, 100% of the 8th grade students were placed in competitive New York City performing arts high schools for the past two years.\n\nIn April 2003, Rosie's Theater Kids was founded by Rosie O'Donnell, Kelli Carpenter, and RBKids Artistic Director, Lori Klinger. Since introducing the program to its first school in Manhattan, RTKids has expanded to serve over 5,000 students at 22 schools in Harlem, Midtown West, Chelsea, Lower East Side, East Village, Chinatown, and Brooklyn.\nThe ACTE II program has also expanded, with new 5th grade students added annually from PS Broadway classes to a new \"team\" of students each year. Currently ACTE II has five teams.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19371148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19371148", "title": "Science Picnic", "text": "Science Picnic\n\nThe Science Picnic is Europe's largest outdoor science-popularization event organized jointly by Polish Radio and the Copernicus Science Centre. It has been held every year since 1997 in Warsaw's New Town Square and Podzamcze area, between 2010 and 2012 in Marszałek Rydz-Śmigły Park, and since 2013 at the National Stadium. A wide range of research fields are represented at the Picnic, including the hard, natural, and social sciences together with the humanities. Research and teaching institutions from Poland and abroad reveal here behind-the-scenes aspects of their work and present science in ways accessible to visitors of various ages, using hands-on experiments and interactive exhibits.\n\nThe Science Picnic was commended by the European Commission in 2005 as one of 10 model European projects in the \"Science and Society\" field. The event has served as the inspiration for many other popular science initiatives, including the Copernicus Science Centre in Warsaw.\n\nThe first Science Picnic (as Science Picnic of Polish Radio BIS) held on 14 June 1997 at the New Town. Seventeen research and teaching institutions form Warsaw took part in it. Picnic was visited by over 3000 people. In subsequent years, the number of participating institutions and visitors grew rapidly. In 2006, around 150 thousand people came to Picnic and 170 institutions form Poland and abroad participated in it, in 2008 – 217 institutions. Since 2008 Science Picnic is organized jointly by Polish Radio and the Copernicus Science Centre. Since 2013 Science Picnics are also hold in Ukraine.\n\n\n\nEach year the Science Picnic is participated in by institutions from Poland and abroad (including from Belgium, Bulgaria, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Lithuania, Morocco, Mexico, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Switzerland, Sweden, United States).\n\n"}
{"id": "3489210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3489210", "title": "ShoutFest", "text": "ShoutFest\n\nSHOUTfest (also known as ShoutFest) is an annual Christian music festival that features popular Contemporary Christian music acts.\n\nBeginning in 2002, SHOUTfest was coordinated by Jeff Roberts Booking Agency, a Christian rock booking agency based in Nashville, Tennessee. The one-day festival traveled around the eastern United States, and typically included games and other activities. SHOUTfest featured bands such as Skillet, Jars of Clay, Rock n Roll Worship Circus, Jeff Deyo, Superchick, Pillar, Jump5, Newsong, Tait, Kevin Max, Natalie Grant, Rebecca St. James, Sonic Flood, Seventh Day Slumber and Flatfoot 56.\n\nIn recent years, Christian radio station WAAW, known as \"SHOUT Radio\", has sponsored a Christian music festival called Shout Fest in Aiken, South Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "49728776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49728776", "title": "Six Days of London", "text": "Six Days of London\n\nThe Six Days of London is a six-day track cycling race held annually in London, United Kingdom. \n\nA first edition of the event was held in 1903, when 4 couples of riders competed 6 hours per day from 2 to 7 February at Alexandra Palace. The winning couple, England's Hall and Martin, rode a total amount of 839 miles. After that edition the Six Days race was not to return until 1923. The event wasn't held since 1980, but was revived in 2015. \n\nBetween 1936 and 1980 the event was held at the Wembley Arena on a temporary track. Since 2015, the event is held at the velodrome of the Lee Valley VeloPark.\n"}
{"id": "19388348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19388348", "title": "Smithsonian Folklife Festival", "text": "Smithsonian Folklife Festival\n\nThe Smithsonian Folklife Festival, launched in 1967, is an international exhibition of living cultural heritage presented annually in the summer in Washington, D.C. in the United States. It is held on the National Mall for two weeks around the Fourth of July (the U.S. Independence Day) holiday. The Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage produces the Festival.\n\nThe Festival is free to the public, encouraging cultural exchange. Attracting more than one million visitors yearly, the two-week-long celebration is the largest annual cultural event in the United States capital. Usually divided into programs featuring a nation, region, state or theme, the Festival has featured tradition bearers from more than 90 nations, every region of the United States, scores of ethnic communities, more than 100 American Indian groups, and some 70 different occupations.\n\nThe Festival generally includes daily and evening programs of music, song, dance, celebratory performance, crafts and cooking demonstrations, storytelling, illustrations of workers' culture, and narrative sessions for discussing cultural issues. Cultural practitioners speak for themselves, with each other, and to the public. Visitors participate, learning, singing, dancing, eating traditional foods, and conversing with people that the Festival program presents.\n\nThe regions and topics featured at the Smithsonian Folklife Festival since its inception in 1967:\n\n"}
{"id": "6673398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6673398", "title": "Tale of Two Mice", "text": "Tale of Two Mice\n\nTale of Two Mice is a 1945 Warner Bros. cartoon in the Looney Tunes series, directed by Frank Tashlin. It is a sequel to 1942's \"A Tale of Two Kitties\", with the Abbott and Costello characterizations (\"Babbit and Catstello\") now cast as mice. They are voiced by Tedd Pierce and Mel Blanc respectively.\n\nBabbit sends Catstello to get some cheese from the refrigerator putting Catsello in danger and peril with a cat, until finally Catsello obtains a block of cheese. Babbit doesn't want it, as he doesn't like Swiss cheese. Fed up with Babbit's bossiness, Catsello force feeds Babbit the Swiss cheese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32607786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32607786", "title": "Thatcher – The Musical!", "text": "Thatcher – The Musical!\n\nThatcher – The Musical! was a theatrical production staged by the Foursight Theatre concerning the life of the former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294286", "title": "Timeline of art", "text": "Timeline of art\n\nThis page indexes the individual year in art pages; see also Art periods. This is a list of the Visual Arts only; for Music see Timeline of musical events.\n2010s – 2000s – 1990s – 1980s – 1970s – 1960s – 1950s – 1940s – 1930s – 1920s – 1910s – 1900s – 1890s – 1880s – 1870s – 1860s – 1850s – 1840s – 1830s – 1820s – 1810s – 1800s – 1790s – 1780s – 1770s – 1760s – 1750s – 1740s – 1730s – 1720s – 1710s – 1700s – 1690s – 1680s – 1670s – 1660s – 1650s – 1640s – 1630s – 1620s – 1610s – 1600s – 1590s – 1580s – 1570s – 1560s – 1550s – 1540s – 1530s – 1520s – 1510s – 1500s – 1490s – 1480s – 1470s – 1460s – 1450s – 1440s – 1430s – 1420s – 1410s – 1400s – 1390s – 1380s – 1370s – 1360s – 1350s – 1340s – 1330s – 1320s – 1310s – 1300s – 1290s – 1280s – 1270s – 1260s – 1250s – 1240s – 1230s – 1220s – 1210s – 1200s – 1190s – 1180s – 1170s – 1160s – 1150s – 1140s – 1130s – 1120s – 1110s – 1100s – 1090s – 1080s – 1070s – 1060s – 1050s – 1040s – 1030s – 1020s – 1010s – 1000s – Prehistoric\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13511796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13511796", "title": "United States vice-presidential debate, 1984", "text": "United States vice-presidential debate, 1984\n\nAs part of the 1984 United States presidential election, \non October 11, 1984, the Democratic Party nominee for Vice President of the United States, Representative Geraldine Ferraro from New York, and the Republican Party nominee, incumbent Vice President George H.W. Bush, participated in a televised campaign debate. The debate was the first vice presidential debate to feature a woman and was the only vice presidential debate in the race. It was moderated by Sander Vanocur of ABC News and held at the Philadelphia Civic Center. \n\nFerraro handled a question about her experience at the debate, after being asked how her three House terms stacked up with Bush's two House terms, career as an ambassador to China and the United Nations, Director of Central Intelligence and four years as Vice President. The peak of the experience battle came when, during a discussion of the Carter administration in Iran and the Reagan administration in Lebanon, Bush said, \"Let me help you with the difference, Mrs. Ferraro, between Iran and the embassy in Lebanon.\" Ferraro responded to cap what \"The New York Times\" termed \"a bristling exchange\", \"Let me just say first of all, that I almost resent, Vice President Bush, your patronizing attitude that you have to teach me about foreign policy.\"\n\nAs a Roman Catholic, Ferraro came under fire from the Roman Catholic Church for being pro-choice on abortion, a position in conflict with Catholic moral doctrine. She strongly defended her position at the debate, which earned her audience applause and a respectful reply from her opponent. Bush was attacked for his change in views since 1980, his transition from pro-choice to pro-life.\n\nFerraro said, \"We're not moving toward a more secure area of the world,\" in regards to Nicaragua and El Salvador, stating that both Sandinista soldiers levels and Soviet and Cuban advisors levels had increased during the Reagan years. She also criticized the mining of the harbors in Nicaragua as a violation of international law.\n\nWhen Ferraro criticized Reagan's actions of refusing to support, and later signing, the Voting Rights Act the moderator, Sander Vancour, cut her off in order to ask the enthusiastically applauding audience to calm down.\n\nThe result was proclaimed mostly even by newspapers, television, other media, and historians. Women voters tended to think Ferraro had won, while men, Bush. Some media, however, either declared Bush or Ferraro the winner. The candidates were both praised for their ability to debate.\n\nDuring a campaign event the next day, an open microphone caught Bush bragging that \"we tried to kick a little ass last night\" in the debate. That remark itself became a campaign issue with Ferraro's camp considering it inappropriate and demanding an apology while the Bush team dismissed it as an expression familiar to those having played sports in the state of Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "19373892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19373892", "title": "Weiße Rose (opera)", "text": "Weiße Rose (opera)\n\nWeiße Rose (\"White Rose\") is a chamber opera in one act by Udo Zimmermann. The opera tells the story of Hans and Sophie Scholl, a brother and sister in their early twenties, who were guillotined by the Nazis in 1943 for leading Die Weiße Rose, a non-violent resistance group. The opera premiered at the Dresden Conservatory on 17 June 1967 with a German libretto by the composer's brother, , a well known journalist and writer in Germany. The opera was received fairly well. Zimmermann revised it the following year for a professional production in Schwerin.\n\nA completely new and less conventionally narrative opera with and a libretto by Wolfgang Willaschek was premiered at the Hamburg State Opera on 27 February 1986 and was a success with both audience and critics. The opera became an international success and has had performances at many of the world's leading opera houses and with leading orchestras including the Vienna State Opera, Komische Oper Berlin, Zurich Opera, the Salzburg Festival, and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra among many others. The United States premiere of the opera was presented by Opera Omaha in 1988 with soprano Lauren Flanigan as Sophie.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50268", "title": "World's fair", "text": "World's fair\n\nA world's fair, world fair, world expo, universal exposition, or international exposition (sometimes expo or Expo for short) is a large international exhibition designed to showcase achievements of nations. These exhibitions vary in character and are held in different parts of the world. The most recent international exhibition, Expo 2017, was held in Astana, Kazakhstan. Osaka in Japan has been selected to host World Expo 2025.\n\nSince the 1928 \"Convention Relating to International Exhibitions\" came into force, the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE; ) has served as an international sanctioning body for world's fairs. Four types of international exhibition are organised under the auspices of the BIE: World Expos, Specialized Expos, Horticultural Expos (regulated by the International Association of Horticultural Producers) and the Triennale di Milano. Depending on their category, international exhibitions may last from three weeks to six months.\n\nWorld's fairs originated in the French tradition of national exhibitions, a tradition that culminated with the French Industrial Exposition of 1844 held in Paris. This fair was followed by other national exhibitions in continental Europe and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe best-known 'first World Expo' was held in The Crystal Palace in Hyde Park, London, United Kingdom, in 1851, under the title \"Great Exhibition of the Works of Industry of All Nations\". The Great Exhibition, as it is often called, was an idea of Prince Albert, Queen Victoria's husband, and is usually considered to be the first international exhibition of manufactured products. It influenced the development of several aspects of society, including art-and-design education, international trade and relations, and tourism. These events have resulted in a remarkable form of Prince Albert's life history, one that continues to be reflected in London architecture in a number of ways, including in the Albert Memorial later erected to the Prince. This expo was the most obvious precedent for the many international exhibitions, later called \"world's fairs\", that have continued to be held to the present time.\n\nSince their inception in 1851, the character of World Expos has evolved. Three eras can be distinguished: the era of industrialization, the era of cultural exchange, and the era of nation branding.\n\nThe first era could be called the era of \"industrialization\" and covered, roughly, the period from 1800 to 1938. In these days, world expositions were especially focused on trade, and were famous for the display of technological inventions and advancements. World expositions were the platforms where the state-of-the-art in science and technology from around the world were brought together. The world expositions of 1851 London, 1853 New York, 1862 London, 1876 Philadelphia, 1889 Paris, 1893 Chicago, 1897 Brussels, 1900 Paris, 1901 Buffalo, 1904 St. Louis, 1915 San Francisco, and 1933–34 Chicago were landmarks in this respect. Inventions such as the telephone were first presented during this era. An important part of the image of world's fairs stems from this first era.\n\nThe 1939–40 New York World's Fair diverged from the original focus of the world's fair expositions. From then on, world's fairs adopted specific cultural themes; they forecast a better future for society. Technological innovations were no longer the primary exhibits at fairs. The theme of the 1939 fair was \"Building the World of Tomorrow\"; at the 1964–65 New York World's Fair, it was \"Peace Through Understanding\"; at the 1967 International and Universal Exposition in Montreal, it was \"Man and His World\". The fairs encouraged effective intercultural communication for the exchange of innovation.\n\nThe 1967 International and Universal Exposition in Montreal was promoted under the name \"Expo 67\". Event organizers retired the term \"world's fair\" in favor of \"Expo\". (The Montreal Expos, a former Major League Baseball team, was named for the 1967 fair.)\n\nFrom World Expo 88 in Brisbane onwards, countries started to use expos more widely and more strongly as a platform to improve their national images through their pavilions. Finland, Japan, Canada, France, and Spain are cases in point. A large study by Tjaco Walvis called \"Expo 2000 Hanover in Numbers\" showed that improving national image was the primary participation goal for 73% of the countries at Expo 2000. In a world where a strong national image is a key asset, pavilions became advertising campaigns, and the Expo a vehicle for \"nation branding\". Apart from cultural and symbolic reasons, organizing countries (and the cities and regions hosting them) also utilize the world exposition to brand themselves. According to branding expert Wally Olins, Spain used Expo '92 and the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona in the same year to underline its new position as a modern and democratic country and present itself as a prominent member of the European Union and the global community.\n\nAt Expo 2000 Hannover, where countries created their own architecture, the average pavilion investment was about €12 million. Given these costs, governments are sometimes hesitant to participate, because benefits are often assumed not to outweigh the costs. Tangible effects are difficult to measure, but an independent study for the Dutch pavilion at Expo 2000 estimated that the pavilion (which cost around €35 million) generated around €350 million of potential revenues for the Dutch economy. It also identified several key success factors for world-exposition pavilions in general.\n\nPresently, there are two types of international exhibition: World Expos (formally known as International Registered Exhibitions) and Specialised Expos (formally known as International Recognised Exhibitions). World Expos, previously known as universal expositions, are the biggest category events. At World Expos, participants generally build their own pavilions. They are therefore the most extravagant and most expensive expos. Their duration may be between six weeks and six months. Since 1995, the interval between two World Expos has been at least five years. The latest World Expo Expo 2015 was held in Milan, Italy, from 1 May to 31 October 2015.\n\nSpecialized Expos are smaller in scope and investments and generally shorter in duration; between three weeks and three months. Previously, these Expos were called Special Exhibitions or International Specialized Exhibitions but these terms are no longer used officially. Their total surface area must not exceed 25 ha and organizers must build pavilions for the participating states, free of rent, charges, taxes and expenses. The largest country pavilions may not exceed 1,000 m. Only one Specialised Expo can be held between two World Expos.\n\nAn additional two types of international exhibition may be recognized by the BIE: horticultural exhibitions, which are joint BIE and AIPH-sanctioned 'garden' fairs in which participants present gardens and garden pavilions; and the semi-regular Milan Triennial (not always held every third year) art and design exhibition, held in Milan, Italy, with the BIE granting official international exhibition status to 14 editions of the Triennale between 1996 and 2016.\n\nWorld Expos (formally known as International Registered Exhibitions) encompass universal themes that affect the full gamut of human experience, and international and corporate participants are required to adhere to the theme in their representations. Registered expositions are held every 5 years because they are more expensive as they require total design of pavilion buildings from the ground up. As a result, nations compete for the most outstanding or memorable structure—recent examples include Japan, France, Morocco, and Spain at Expo '92. Recent Registered Expositions include Brussels Expo '58, Montreal Expo 67, Vancouver Expo 86, Osaka Expo '70, and Seville Expo '92. Sometimes prefabricated structures are also used to minimize costs for developing countries or for countries from a geographical block to share space (i.e. Plaza of the Americas at Seville '92).\n\nThe only Registered (Universal) exposition to be held without BIE approval was the 1964–1965 New York World's Fair. The sanctioning organization at Paris denied them \"official\" status because its president, Robert Moses, did not comply with BIE rules in place at the time, namely the one limiting the duration for universal expositions to six months only. The two World's Fairs in New York (1939–40 and 1964–65) and the Century of Progress in Chicago (1934-1935) have the distinction of being the only two-year world expositions in history. The Fair proceeded without BIE approval and turned to tourism and trade organizations to host national pavilions in lieu of official government sponsorship. However, a large number of countries did participate in the world's fair including several newly independent African and Asian states.\n\nFrederick Pittera, a producer of international fairs and exhibitions and author of the history of world's fairs in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" and \"Compton Encyclopedia\", was commissioned by Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr. of New York City in 1959 to prepare the first feasibility studies for the 1964 New York World's Fair. Pittera was joined in his study by Austrian architect Victor Gruen (Inventor of the 'Shopping Mall'). The Eisenhower Commission ultimately awarded the world's fair bid to New York City against several major U.S. cities.\n\nIn the 21st century the BIE has moved to sanction expos only every five years; following the numerous expos of the 1980s and 1990s, some see this as a means to cut down potential expenditure by participating nations. The move was also seen by some as an attempt to avoid conflicting with the Summer Olympics. The rule may apply to all expos, or it may end up that universal expositions will be restricted to every five years or so, with international or specialized expositions in the in-between years for countries wishing to celebrate a special event. The most recent universal expo was Expo 2017 in Astana.\n\nSpecialized Expos (formally known as International Recognized Exhibitions) are usually united by a precise theme — such as 'Future Energy' (Expo 2017 Astana), 'The Living Ocean and Cost' (Expo 2012 Yeosu, or 'Leisure in the Age of Technology' (Brisbane, Expo '88). Such themes are more specific than the wider scope of world expositions.\n\nThe Specialized Exposition, Tsukuba, Japan, popularly known as Expo '85 was held in the city of Tsukuba located near Tokyo. This Exposition is more formally known as \"The International Science Technology Exposition\".\n\nSpecialized Expos are usually smaller in scale and cheaper to run for the host committee and participants because the architectural fees are lower and they only have to customize pavilion space provided free of charge from the Organiser, usually with the prefabricated structure already completed. Countries then have the option of 'adding' their own colours, design etc. to the outside of the prefabricated structure and filling in the inside with their own content.\n\nList of official world expositions (Universal and International/Specialised) according to the Bureau International des Expositions.\n\nThe majority of the structures are temporary and are dismantled after the fair closes. Landmark towers from several fairs are notable exceptions. By far the most famous of these is the Eiffel Tower, built for the Exposition Universelle (1889). Although it is now the most recognized symbol of its host city Paris, a number of influential contemporary critics opposed its construction, and there were demands for it to be dismantled after the fair's conclusion.\n\nOther major structures that were held over from these fairs:\n\n\nSome world's fair sites became (or reverted to) parks incorporating some of the expo elements, such as:\n\nSome pavilions have been moved overseas intact:\n\nThe Brussels Expo '58 relocated many pavilions within Belgium: the pavilion of Jacques Chocolats moved to the town of Diest to house the new town swimming pool. Another pavilion was relocated to Willebroek and has been used as dance hall Carré ever since. One smaller pavilion still stands on the boulevard towards the Atomium: the restaurant \"Salon 58\" in the pavilion of Comptoir Tuilier.\n\nMany exhibitions and rides created by Walt Disney and his WED Enterprises company for the 1964 New York World's Fair (which was held over into 1965) were moved to Disneyland after the closing of the Fair. Many of the rides, including \"it's a small world\", and \"Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln\", as well as the building that housed the Carousel of Progress are still in operation.\n\nDisney had contributed so many exhibits to the New York fair in part because the corporation had originally envisioned a \"permanent World's Fair\" at the Flushing site. That concept instead came to fruition with the Disney theme park Epcot, an extension of the Walt Disney World Resort, near Orlando, Florida. Epcot has many of the characteristics of a typical universal exposition: national pavilions, as well as exhibits concerning technology and/or the future, along with more typical amusement park rides. Meanwhile, several of the 1964 attractions, relocated to Disneyland, have been duplicated at the Walt Disney World Resort.\n\nOccasionally other bits and pieces of the fairs remain. In the New York City subway system, signs directing people to Flushing Meadows, Queens remain from the 1964–65 event. In the Montreal subway at least one tile artwork of its theme, \"Man and His World\", remains. Also, a seemingly endless supply of souvenir items from fair visits can be found, and in the United States, at least, can often be bought at garage or estate sales. Many of these events also produced postage stamps and commemorative coins. The 1904 Olympic Games, officially known as the Games of the III Olympiad, were held in conjunction with the 1904 St. Louis fair, although no particular tie-in seems to have been made. The Exposition Universelle (1900) Paris was also loosely tied to the Olympic Games.\n\nExpo 2020 will be held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, as a Registered Exposition.\n\nThe bidding process for this larger sized exposition formally began in 2011, with five cities being selected to participate in the final round of votes:\n\nOther participating cities and countries that were not selected for the final voting process to host Expo 2020, or did not submit bids for consideration by the BIE:\n\nExpo 2023 will be held at the Argentine capital and will have a theme of “Science, Innovation, Art and Creativity for Human Development. Creative Industries in Digital Convergence”.\nFour countries had submitted bids to host Specialised Expo 2022/23: \n\nAt the end of the project examination phase, BIE Member States voted for Buenos Aires as the host city of Expo 2022/23 via a secret ballot at the BIE General Assembly, held in November 2017.\n\nExpo 2025 will be held at the Japanese city of Osaka and will have a theme of “Designing Future Society for Our Lives!”.\n\nFour countries had submitted bids to host World Expo 2025:\n\nOsaka made its official bid for the Expo on 24 April 2017 with the theme “Designing Future Society for Our Lives”.\nThe Azerbaijani capital entered its candidacy before the deadline under the theme \"Human Capital\".\nThe French capital was the first to declare its candidacy, under the theme \"Sharing our Knowledge, Caring for our Planet\". The candidacy was withdrawn in January 2018 due to budget constraints.\nThe Russian city entered its candidacy on 22 May 2017 under the theme \"Changing world: inclusive innovation is for our children and future generations\".\n\nAt the end of the project examination phase, BIE Member States voted for Osaka as the host city of Expo 2025 via a secret ballot at the BIE General Assembly, held in November 2018.\n\nDue to the U.S. government's withdrawing its membership in the BIE from 2002 to 2017, Worlds Fair USA is the first private Worlds Fair effort in history. Worlds Fair USA is organizing a series of mini-World's Fairs around the country called World's Fair Nano in cities like San Francisco and New York City in order to build excitement for the six month World's Fair, which Worlds Fair USA hopes to organize within the decade.\n\nThe Los Angeles World's Fair is another non-BIE effort.\n\nThe BIE, since 1959 grants recognition to the International Horticultural Exhibitions (Category A1) approved by the International Association of Horticultural Producers (AIPH) subject to it meeting certain criteria including being approved by the BIE general assembly.\n\nInternational Horticultural Exhibitions (upcoming in italics):\n\n\n\n"}
