{"id": "19599126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599126", "title": "Abdul Latif Tibawi", "text": "Abdul Latif Tibawi\n\nDr. Abdul Latif Tibawi (, 1910–1981) was a Palestinian historian and educationalist. Born in Taybet El-Muthalath, near TulKarem, he was one of the earliest graduates of the Arabic College, Dar Al-Mu’allimin, in Jerusalem. He read history and Arabic literature at the American University of Beirut and later earned a Ph.D from the University of London in 1948. Prior to the 1948 Palestinian exodus he was a senior education officer in Jerusalem. He was in London when the crisis of 1948 unfolded. He became a refugee and was appointed Lecturer in Comparative Education at the Institute of Education, London, where he taught until his retirement in 1977. Tibawi wrote extensively on many aspects of Middle Eastern history in both English and Arabic.\n\nHe established a fund for Palestinian postgraduate students at the School of Oriental and African Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30943562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30943562", "title": "Alberto Radicati", "text": "Alberto Radicati\n\nAlberto Radicati, Count of Passerano (Torino, 11 November 1698 – 24 October 1737, The Hague), was an 18th-century historian, philosopher and free-thinker. He was the reputed author of the 1732 work \"A Philosophical Dissertation upon Death, Composed for the Consolation of the Unhappy by a Friend of Truth\", published in London. This work created a scandal and led to the arrest of Radicati and his translator. The \"Dissertation upon Death\" is referenced by George Berkeley in his 1733 \"Theory of Vision Vindicated\", section 5. There Radicati's work is used as an example of a free-thinker explicitly adopting the radical views attributed to the free-thinkers by Berkeley in his 1732 dialogue \"Alciphron\", and so to defend Berkeley against the charge of attacking a strawman.\n\n"}
{"id": "36283601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36283601", "title": "All Saints' Flood (1304)", "text": "All Saints' Flood (1304)\n\nThe All Saints Day flood () of 1304 was a storm surge that hit the southwestern Baltic Sea coast on 1 November (All Saints' Day) that year. The region of Western Pomerania was particularly badly affected by the flooding. 271 lives were lost as a result of the flood.\n\nLike most similar storm floods, it was created when water accumulated in the middle and northern Baltic as a result of several days of strong westerly winds, and then surged abruptly onto the Pomeranian coast when the wind suddenly shifted to the northeast. The All Saints Day flood resulted in substantial losses of land between the islands of Rügen and Usedom: for example, until 1304 there was a land bridge between the peninsula of Mönchgut on Rügen and the island of Ruden off Usedom. The Bay of Greifswald was probably still an inland lake and the present-day branch of the River Oder, the Peenestrom, flowed on through the Strelasund and did not discharge into the Baltic until the western end of the sound. In the 1304 storm flood, the southern part of the Mönchgut and most of Ruden was flooded. Whether further storm flooding was needed to finally turn drown the land under the water, is not known. The only losses recorded are those of two villages on Ruden that were drowned. The Bay of Greifswald was henceforth known as the \"low country\" (\"Landtief\") or the \"New Deep\" (\"Neue Tief\"). 300 years later, only the ever-shrinking island of Ruden remained, along with the small island of North Ruden, which presumably sank beneath the waves in the 17th century. The remaining island is still less than 2 metres above the water for long stretches; the channel for the eastern approach to Stralsund has to be dredged to be kept free.\n\nOther consequences of the All Saints Day flood have not been handed down, but it is also possible that it led to breaches to the Baltic Sea at Damerow on Usedom, at the Swine estuary and on the shores of the Prorer Wiek. These areas were almost uninhabited at the end of Middle Ages because of their infertility.\n\n"}
{"id": "17714790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17714790", "title": "Alonso González de Nájera", "text": "Alonso González de Nájera\n\nAlonso González de Nájera (died 1614) was a Spanish soldier and an advocate of reforms in the conduct of the War of Arauco. He served in the war following the Disaster of Curalaba and the great Mapuche uprising that followed in Chile that resulted in the loss of all the Spanish settlements south of the Bio Bio River. He was sent back to the royal court in Spain to argue for a reform to the way the war against the Mapuche was fought. Nájera's arguments for his reforms were incorporated in his book of \"Desengaño y reparo de la Guerra del Reino de Chile\" (Disappointment and Reparation of the War of the Kingdom of Chile).\n\nThere is no information on his life before 1600. It is only known that he served in the Spanish army in Flanders and then in France. On November 13, 1600 he left Lisbon for Chile with the rank of captain under the command of Francisco Martinez de Leiva. He arrived in Mendoza in May 1601, afterward moving to the south of Chile, where he remained until 1607.\n\nAlonso de Ribera, Governor of the Captaincy General of Chile, founded the fort Nacimiento on the banks of the Bio Bio near the confluence with the river Vergara, December 24, 1603. Gonzalez, Najera was responsible for building it and was its first garrison commander. After four years of military service in the war zone, he was appointed sargento mayor by the newly appointed Governor Alonso García Ramón in 1605. He later returned to Santiago sick and wounded in his leg, as a result of his participation in the war.\n\nBecause of the critical military situation in Chile, Governor Ramon Garcia decided to send González de Nájera to Spain to report to King Philip III on the true state of the territory. The choice of González was based on his long years of experience and skilled, zealous service to the king in many prominent posts and positions in the army. In May 1607, he departed for Spain, where he arrived at the end of the next year. To record the critical situation that lived in Chile, and to convince the Council of the Indias and the King to send relief to Chile, he drafted and presented some considerations which were later transformed into the fifth and sixth points of his book \"Desengaño y reparo de la Guerra del Reino de Chile\".\nIn the Court, Gonzalez de Najera made a series of recommendations on how to continue the war. He pointed out the weaknesses that the current methods used in the war suffered, especially the system of \"campeadas\" or incursions that the Hispanic army made in Mapuche territory to burn their fields and to hunt them for slaves. He not only set out his criticism, but proposed to establish a new system to complete the conquest of the Mapuche territory and to finish with the war. This consisted of the creation of a line of forts that separated both territories, a professional army that operated from them towards the interior of Mapuche territory, the extermination of the natives who were to be hunted as slaves and their replacement by black slaves from Africa, apparently considered less rebellious than the Mauche. However, he was not heard and the Governors request for relief did not succeed. The actual decision was to impose Luis de Valdivia's system of defensive war, contrary to what was suggested by Gonzalez de Najera. However his merits were recognized and he was appointed Governor of Puerto Hércules in Tuscany, where he finished his life sometime in 1614 although the date is uncertain. \nGonzalez de Najera did not succeed in getting his book \"Desengaño y reparo de la Guerra del Reino de Chile\", published. Although he finished writing it in 1614, it never was published while he was still alive, being printed more than two centuries later in Madrid, in 1866, containing his arguments and proposals and in 1889 in Chile, with a biographical introduction by Jose Toribio Medina.\n\n"}
{"id": "3123626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3123626", "title": "André Gerolymatos", "text": "André Gerolymatos\n\nAndré Gerolymatos is a Greek-Canadian professor at Simon Fraser University, and holds the Hellenic Canadian Congress of British Columbia Chair in Hellenic Studies.\n\nGerolymatos is the author of a number of books on Greek history, including 2004's \"Red Acropolis, Black Terror: The Greek Civil War and the Origins of Soviet-American Rivalry, 1943-1949\", which argues that the Greek Civil War was the first engagement of the United States in the Cold War. In 2005, Gerolymatos was interviewed for the documentary film \"\", a film which documents the Battle of Crete and the resistance that followed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10953613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10953613", "title": "Antiguo Oriente", "text": "Antiguo Oriente\n\nAntiguo Oriente is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal published by the Center of Studies of Ancient Near Eastern History (CEHAO) (Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina, Buenos Aires). It covers the history of societies of the Ancient Near East and the Eastern Mediterranean from the Paleolithic through the Greco-Roman period.\n\n\"Antiguo Oriente\" publishes articles and book reviews in Spanish, English and French. \nThe journal is indexed and/or ranked en several bibliographic databases, including the prestigious rankings Scimago, Emerging Sources Citation Index (ESCI), and MIAR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50402471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50402471", "title": "Archaeogaming", "text": "Archaeogaming\n\nArchaeogaming is an archaeological framework which, broadly speaking, includes the study of archaeology in and of video-games as well as the use of video-games for archaeological purposes. To this end, the study can include, but is in no means limited to: the physical excavation of video-game hardware, the use of archaeological methods within game worlds, the creation of video-games for or about archaeological practices and outcomes or the critical study of how archaeology is represented in video-games. Virtual and augmented reality applications in archaeology might also be subsumed within its rubric.\n\nM. Dennis states that archaeogaming is \"“… the utilization and treatment of immaterial space to study created culture, specifically through videogames” which “requires treating a game world, a world bounded and defined by the limitations of its hardware, software and coding choices, as both a closed universe and as an extension of the external culture that created it. Everything that goes into the immaterial space comes from its external cultural source, in one way or another.”\" Taking this into consideration the archaeogaming framework indicates that there is no functional difference between studying archaeology in the physical, material world, and implementing it with regards to the study, critique and creation of video-games for and about archaeology. As such it is said that archaeogaming \"“requires the same standards of practice as the physical collection of excavated data, only with a different toolset. It also provides the opportunity to use game worlds to reflect on practice, theory and the perceptions of [archaeology].”\"\n\nThe first recorded use of the term “archaeogaming” appears on June 9, 2013 on Andrew Reinhard’s blog, in which he discusses the archaeological underpinnings of World of Warcraft and extrapolates that there is the potential to explore the gameplay and construction of these worlds using an archaeological methodology. The term went on to be retroactively applied to work previously carried out within the umbrella of video-games and archaeology, for example, the ethnographic investigations conducted by E. Johnson in Skyrim. \nThe term has been developed by various academics since the first inception and development is ongoing. Though Reinhard is credited with first applying the term to this study it is noted here that many other academic enquries have previously tackled the topic under different names such as gaming archaeology and game-archaeology.\n\nThere are many forms or sub-categories within the wider archaeogaming discipline, ranging from the study of the material culture of video-games through to the creation of video-games as a means to think about or represent archaeological practices, processes or outcomes. The core categories will be discussed in turn below.\n\nThe archaeology of video-games in the physical world entails the excavation of material culture using conventional and specialist archaeogaming methodologies. The Atari video game burial, which entailed the excavation of E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial cartridges from the New Mexico landfill site, is an example of this form of archaeogaming.\n\nThe archaeogaming sub-category of digital excavation refers to using archaeological methods to dig into how video-games operate. An example of this method can be found in J. Aycock’s use of computer-science methods to explore the construction and implementation of features within video-games. Douglas Heaven wrote about the archaeology of rubbish/garbage within virtual worlds for New Scientist. The June 2016 release of \"No Man's Sky\" (Hello Games) will also see the launch of the \"No Man's Sky\" Archaeological Survey, the first formal archaeology project undertaken within a procedurally created universe.\n\nThe critical study of how archaeology has, could and should be used in video-games is perhaps the broadest and most widely represented sub-category of the archaeogaming group in academic and popular literature. Proponents of this sector discuss how archaeology has been represented in externally produced games and construct frameworks which aim to develop better representations of archaeological material, practices and outputs.\n\nCultural heritage is also explored in an archaeological way via archaeogaming, from critical reviews of games such as Subnautica and Never Alone, to online playthroughs of games such as Far Cry Primal by professors and students of archaeology.\n\nContributors have also explored aspects of game design and creation in relation to the discipline of archaeogaming, exposing parallels in the development of titles like Day Of The Tentacle Remastered to the archaeologcial process.\n\nThere are two key branches within this sub-grouping: the practice of creating video-games which represent archaeological material, practices or processes or the creation of video-games to serve archaeological needs. The former of these categories can be seen in the production of games for museums, exhibitions or online sites, usually with the express aim of educating or informing an audience. The latter of the categories focusses on how video-games, as a media form, can be used to supplement, overcome or provide novel methods for recording, expressing or communicating archaeology for academic purposes.\n\nArchaeogaming began receiving global attention upon the publication of an August 2015 article on Vice Motherboard by Kathleen Caulderwood, \"The Archaeologist Who Studies World of Warcraft\". The story received wider circulation courtesy of a follow-up piece on the video game site Kotaku, \"Actual Archaeologist is Digging through World of Warcraft, Skyrim\". Guokr, a Chinese science and technology news site reported on archaeogaming shortly thereafter, followed by German technology site Technology Review.\n\nArchaeogaming has been the subject of two national radio broadcasts in Canada and Ireland, first on CBC's Spark radio program with Nora Young, \"We're Kind of making it up as we Go Along\": What it's like to be a Video Game Archaeologist\" and then on Ireland's Lyric FM Culture File with Eleanor Flegg, \"What is Archaeogaming?\"\n\nIn April, 2016, a group of academics gathered at Leiden University, Netherlands, as part of the VALUE conference on interactive pasts. The purpose of this conference was to present current research, engage in critical discussion of archaeology and video-games and to develop a manifesto for the development of the necessary theoretical, methodological and practice based frameworks involved under the broad term of archaeogaming. The core tenets of the first draft of the manifesto (1.0) are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7650959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7650959", "title": "Azra Erhat", "text": "Azra Erhat\n\nAzra Erhat (4 June 1915; Sisli, Istanbul – 6 September 1982, Istanbul) was a Turkish author, archaeologist, academician, classical philologist, and translator. A pioneer of Turkish Humanism, Azra Erat is especially well known for her published works, including many translations into Turkish from the classical literature of Ancient Greece.\n\nAzra Erhat was born on 4 June 1915 in Sisli, Istanbul. Her parents were Tevfik Bey and Nakibe Hanım. Nakibe and her sister, Mukbile, were the children of Fatma Hanım and Fadıl Bey. Fadil Bey (1857-1938) was born in Thessaloniki, Greece, where he completed his primary and secondary education before traveling to Istanbul, where he graduated from law school. Working as a lawyer while splitting his time between Istanbul and Thessaloniki, Fadil and his wife, Fatma, eventually settled down in Buyukada Island, Istanbul Province, in 1923. \n\nThe period of Azra Erhat’s birth was a time of upheaval, coinciding with the occupation of Constantinople by British, French, and Italian forces. She moved with her parents to Izmir in 1922 and to Vienna, Austria in 1924, when her father's work was transferred there. Erhat received two years of primary education in Volksschule, Vienna, before her father's work necessitated another move, this time to Brussels, Belgium. There she completed primary school and then attended Emile Jacqmain High School () where she gained a strong interest in literature while studying French, Flemish, Latin, and Ancient Greek. When Erhat's father died in 1932, Azra stayed in Brussels at a friend's home to complete high school while her family moved back to Istanbul. Finishing with the highest achievement level -(\"\"), she then rejoined her family in Istanbul. In 1934 Azra entered the Istanbul University Faculty of Arts degree, where her most influential instructor was the Austrian romance philologist and prolific literary critic, Leo Spitzer. Introducing Erhat to Professor George Rodhe of Ankara University in 1936, Spitzer recommended Azra for a student-assistant position translating Rodhe's lessons from French, German, Latin, and Greek content into Turkish. On September 1, 1936, Erhat accepted the offer and transferred to the newly inaugurated Department of Classical Philology of the Faculty of Languages, History, and Geography at Ankara University. Working as a student-translator-assistant up to and beyond graduation in 1939, she continued as an assistant in the University's Department of Classical Philology and became an associate professor in 1946. During this same period, Azra also worked in the Translation Office established by Minister of Education Hasan Ali Yücel with fellow Turkish Humanism pioneers Sabahattin Eyüboğlu, Vedat Günyol (), Orhan Burian (), and Saffet Korkut, establishing close friendships with them. In 1945, separately and together with Orhan Veli, she translated and published many works from Homer, Aristophanes, Sophocles, and Plato. \n\nWith the departure of Hasan Ali Yücel as Turkey’s minister of education following the 1946 elections, the political atmosphere began changing in the Department of Education. In 1948, during a cleansing of left-leaning thinkers, Erhat and fellow faculty members, including Pertev Naili Boratav, Behice Boran, Adnan Cemgil (), and Niyazi Berkes, were dismissed from Ankara University. Returning to Istanbul, Erhat continued working from 1949 to 1955 as a translator, an art critic, and news reporter, when she received a position with the Turkish daily newspaper, \"Vatan\", where she worked until 1956. From 1956 until her retirement in 1975, Erhat worked in the library of the United Nations' International Labour Organization (ILO) Near and Middle East Center. In 1971, Erhat, Sabahattin Eyüboğlu, and Vedat Günyol were arrested and charged with violating Article 141 of the Turkish Criminal Code (establishing a secret communist organization) during the coup d’etat of March 12 1971 Turkish military memorandum. Detained for 4 months in the Maltepe Military Prison, Erhat and her companions were released in the first legal session. While she was unable to work throughout the one and a half years until her lawsuit was finally closed, the ILO supported Erhat and protected her staff.\n\nThe years between 1956 and 1982 are considered Erhat's most creative and prolific period, with the publication of many literary works during this time. Individual works and others she collaborated on with Sabahattin Eyüboğlu were published in \"New Horizons\" Magazine ('). In collaboration with Ibrahim Abdulkadir Mericboyu, alias/pen-name A. Kadir (), Erhat translated Homer's \"Iliad\", winning the Habib Törehan Science Award in 1959 for Volume 1, and the Turkish Language Institution Translation Award in 1961 for Volume 3. Erhat's translation of Homer's \"Odyssey\" was published in 1970, her \"Dictionary of Mythology\" (') was published in 1972, and her Ph.D. thesis provided the material published in collaboration with Cengiz Bektaş in 1978 entitled, \"Conversations and Poetry on Sappho\" (\"\"). Azra Erhat also occasionally wrote under the pseudonym Ayşe Nur.\n\nOn September 6, 1982, after unsuccessful treatment in London for cancer, Azra Erhat died in Istanbul at age 67. Her body was buried at the Bülbüldere Cemetery in Üsküdar, Istanbul. \n\nFollowing Erhat’s death, her books were endowed to Anadolu University, with a collection created in her memory. In 1983, in honor of Erhat’s significant contribution to Classical Literature translations, \"Yazko\" a Turkish journal of translation, began offering a literary award in her name.\n\nAzra Erhat’s translations of Homer’s \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" are still primary sources of classical literature in Turkey today. Drawn from Erhat’s distinctive humanism gained “from local values and bridges between Western cultures and Anatolian cultures,” her language and writing style “provides a simple and understandable epic text.” Enabling readers who are unable to read the original texts, Erhat’s translations, “which are not only linguistically but structurally and formally successful, also carry the Anatolian identity that the translator cares about and reflect the epicenter of the land they belong to.”\n\nIn the Introduction to Azra Erhat’s book, \"İşte İnsan (Ecce Homo)\", Azra writes: (turkish):\n\n\"Büyük tuttum bu işi: dört yıllık düşüncemi, yaşantımı bir kitaba sığdırmak isterdim. Homeros'ta insan dedim yola çıktım, beden ruh ikiliği dikildi karşıma, aldım inceledim; derken Platon'un insan anlayışı, toplum görüşü çeldi aklımı, onu da kavrayayım derken açıldım uçsuz bucaksız bir düşünce alanına. Özgürlük, mutluluk, insancılık...Sorunlar, saçları altın tellerle örülmüş öcüler gibi çekti sürükledi beni oradan oraya.(...) Bir desteğim vardı: Yaşantıya olan güvenim. İnsanı mı konu edindim: insan gibi yaşayayım kendimi vere vere, dolu dizgin, coşkunca yaşayayım ki insanı anlayayım, insanı söyleyebileyim.(...)Sevgiyi ahlak edindim kendime. İnsancılığı yalnız sevgide gördüm ve sevgiden bekledim, kitabımı satır satır yazdırsın bana. Yanılmadım da: Ecce Homo'yu bana sevgi yazdırdı.\n-Azra Erhat-\"\n\n(From the same webpage translated to English by Google Translate:) \"I've kept this great job: four years of thought, I want to fit my life in a book. In Homer, I went on the road, body soul duality was erected, and I looked at it; Plato's human understanding, society, the wisdom of my mind, I understand it, I opened up to an immense field of thought. Freedom, happiness, humanity ... Problems, hairs woven with gold wires attracted the dangers pulled me from there. (...) I had a support: I have confidence in life. I've made a human being: I live like a human, I want to live a full, full of enthusiasm, let me understand the human, I can say human. I saw humanity in love alone and waited for love, let me print my book in line by line. I wasn't mistaken: Ecce Homo wrote me with love.\n-Azra Erhat-\"\n\nStrongly connected with her activities as a writer and translator, Erhat’s recreational activities likewise significantly impacted the rising trend of Westernization in Kamal Ataturk’s newly-formed Republic of Turkey. Together with fellow authors Cevat Şakir Kabaağaçlı, alias/pen-name \"The Fisherman of Halicarnassus\" ('), and Sabahattin Eyüboğlu, Azra Erhat is considered an originator of the literary and touristic term, \"Blue Cruise\" ('). Used in Turkey's tourism industry, the name \"Blue Cruise\" (or \"Blue Voyage\") is the title of Erhat’s travelogue, \"Mavi Yolculuk\", originally published in 1962 and republished in 2005.\n\nCevat Şakir Kabaağaçlı, sentenced in 1925 to a 3-year exile to Bodrum found this sleepy fishing village known in antiquity as Halicarnassus so charming that, long after his exile ended, he returned to settle down there. Convincing his closest friends and fellow members of the Turkish intelligentsia of the unspoiled beauties of the shoreline and rural environment of Bodrum, authors Sabahattin Eyüboğlu, Azra Erhat, and others soon joined Cevat, who had renamed himself \"Halikarnas Balıkçısı\" (\"the Fisherman of Halicarnassus\"). In the coming decades, the close friends would enjoy many long sailing trips together in the local sponge divers' sailing boats, called gulets. Finding herself immersed in a lush natural landscape seemingly unchanged since antiquity, Erhat viewed her surroundings as “the scenes of historical and mythological events.” Expressing her strong belief that Anatolia gave birth to Western civilization, Erhat charmed her companions (and soon her readers) with detailed discussions from Classical Literature on Halicarnassus, Troy, Pergamum, Ephesus, and other famous Anatolian sites of Ancient Greece.\n\nEspecially with the 1962 release of Erhat’s immensely popular travel book, \"Mavi Yolculuk\" (\"Blue Cruise\"), and articles written by Erhat and her colleagues at \"New Horizons\" Magazine (\"\"), the Turkish reading public began flocking to this region. Guidebooks were published in both Turkish and German and soon the Turquoise Coast became an international tourist destination that is still famous today for Blue Cruises.\n\nEnduring until the end of their lives, the relationship between Azra Erhat and the Fisherman of Halicarnassus (') blossomed into a love story regularly nourished by Blue Cruises when they were together and thousands of letters written to each other when they were apart. After Halikarnas Balıkçısı died in 1972, with his prior permission, Erhat published a collection of his letters in her 1976 book, \"Letters of the Fisherman of Halicarnassus\" (').\n\nAzra Erhat has written 104 works in 307 publications in 2 languages and 633 library holdings, according to WorldCat Identities. Among her more popular books, WorldCat notes, \"Mektuplarıyle Halikarnas Balıkçısı\" (\"Letters of the Halicarnassus Fisherman\"), has had “15 editions published between 1976 and 2002 in Turkish and held by 43 WorldCat member libraries worldwide,” and \"Mitoloji sözlüğü\" (\"Dictionary of Mythology\"), with “20 editions published between 1972 and 2011 in Turkish and ‘undetermined’ and held by 40 WorldCat member libraries worldwide.” \n\n"}
{"id": "56533073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56533073", "title": "Bithynian coinage", "text": "Bithynian coinage\n\nBithynian coinage refers to coinage struck by the Kingdom of Bithynia that was situated on the coast of the Black Sea.\n\nAsia Minor is known for having kingdoms that issued abundant coinage during some points in their history. After Pergamon under the Attalid dynasty expanded, smaller kingdoms exploited the political situation and increased their power in the region. Bithynia, Cappadocia and Pontus are well-known and studied for their abundant coinage at certain times. Bithynian kingdom incorporated the most monetized areas under its domain when compared to the other two kingdoms. Bithynian rulers struck long and continuous series of silver and bronze coinage. Elsewhere, Cappadocians are primarily known for their military issues of coins, and the less monetized Pontic region primarily struck bronze coinage.\n\nThe purpose of the first royal Bithynian and Cappadocian bronze coinage is still unknown.\n\nThe first king was Zipoetes I c. 298 BC – c. 279 BC. It is thought that there were no coinage struck during his reign.\n\nThe first Bithynian king to strike coins was Nicomedes I (c. 280 BC – c. 250 BC). He is primarily known for bringing the Gauls known as Galatians to the Asia Minor in 277 BC to fight against his brother and Antiochus I. This short-sighted mistake brought troubles for local Greeks for a century. In early 260s BC, possibly in 264 BC according to Eusebius, he moved the capital to Nicomedia on the Propontis. There was a mint in the new capital. Silver tetradrachms and drachms of the Attic weight are known. Nicomedes I is known to have struck some bronze coinage too. Both Bithynian and Cappadocian coinages were started with minor series of bronze coins.\n\nSuccessor of Nicomedes I was Ziaelas (c. 250 BC – 230 BC). He is known for having minted bronze coinage. However, only a few specimen have survived.\n\nReign of Prusias I (c. 232 BC – 182 BC) saw birth of a more regular silver and bronze coinage for the kingdom. The first large issues of coins can be thus attributed to him. Bronze coinage of Prusias I and Prusias II have not been differentiated in the most common catalogues. However, those related to Ziaelas can be attributed to Prusias I.\n\nNicomedes II is notable for having struck the first gold staters in the kingdom's history. Those coins had his portrait on their obverse, and a galloping horseman on the reverse. He also introduced the year number of the Bithynian era on his coins, replacing the Seleucid era.\n\nBoth Nicomedes III and Nicomedes IV struck similar tetradrachms as their predecessor Nicomedes II.\n\nOn the death of king Nicomedes IV in 74 BC the kingdom was bequeathed to the Roman Empire, and subsequently reconstituted as a Roman province. It was later part of the province of the Bithynia and Pontus. Roman administration saw introduction of a new provincial currency, and Bithynian polity's capital was moved back to Nicomedia.\n\nDuring Roman rule the provincial cities that, in the combined province of Bithynia and Pontus, issued coinage reached 29 cities during the second century AD. Some of these cities on the Bithynian region included Apamea Myrlea, Bithynium, Nicaea, Nicomedia and Tium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4345", "title": "Bohemia", "text": "Bohemia\n\nBohemia ( ; ; ; ; ; ; ) is the westernmost and largest historical region of the Czech lands in the present-day Czech Republic. In a broader meaning, Bohemia sometimes refers to the entire Czech territory, including Moravia and Czech Silesia, especially in a historical context, such as the Lands of the Bohemian Crown ruled by Bohemian kings.\n\nBohemia was a duchy of Great Moravia, later an independent principality, a kingdom in the Holy Roman Empire, and subsequently a part of the Habsburg Monarchy and the Austrian Empire. After World War I and the establishment of an independent Czechoslovak state, Bohemia became a part of Czechoslovakia. Between 1938 and 1945, border regions with sizeable German-speaking minorities of all three Czech lands were joined to Nazi Germany as the Sudetenland.\n\nThe remainder of Czech territory became the Second Czechoslovak Republic and was subsequently occupied as the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, In 1969, the Czech lands (including Bohemia) were given autonomy within Czechoslovakia as the Czech Socialist Republic. In 1990, the name was changed to the Czech Republic, which became a separate state in 1993 with the split of Czechoslovakia.\n\nUntil 1948, Bohemia was an administrative unit of Czechoslovakia as one of its \"lands\" (\"země\"). Since then, administrative reforms have replaced self-governing lands with a modified system of \"regions\" (\"kraje\") which do not follow the borders of the historical Czech lands (or the regions from the 1960 and 2000 reforms). However, the three lands are mentioned in the preamble of the Constitution of the Czech Republic: \"We, citizens of the Czech Republic in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia…\"\n\nBohemia had an area of and today is home to approximately 6.5 million of the Czech Republic's 10.5 million inhabitants. Bohemia was bordered in the south by Upper and Lower Austria (both in Austria), in the west by Bavaria and in the north by Saxony and Lusatia (all in Germany), in the northeast by Silesia (in Poland), and in the east by Moravia (also part of the Czech Republic). Bohemia's borders were mostly marked by mountain ranges such as the Bohemian Forest, the Ore Mountains, and the Krkonoše, a part of the Sudetes range; the Bohemian-Moravian border roughly follows the Elbe-Danube watershed.\n\nIn the 2nd century BC, the Romans were competing for dominance in northern Italy, with various peoples including the Boii. The Romans defeated the Boii at the Battle of Placentia (194 BC) and the Battle of Mutina (193 BC). After this, many of the Boii retreated north across the Alps.\n\nMuch later Roman authors refer to the area they had once occupied (the \"desert of the Boii\" as Pliny and Strabo called it) as \"Boiohaemum\". The earliest mention was by Tacitus' \"Germania\" 28 (written at the end of the 1st century AD), and later mentions of the same name are in Strabo and Velleius Paterculus. The name appears to include the tribal name \"Boi-\" plus the Germanic element *\"haimaz\" \"home\" (whence Gothic \"haims\", German \"Heimat\", English \"home\"). This Boiohaemum was apparently isolated to the area where King Marobod's kingdom was centred, within the Hercynian forest.\n\nThe Czech name \"Čechy\" is derived from the name of the Slavic ethnic group, the Czechs, who settled in the area during the 6th or 7th century AD.\n\nBohemia, like neighbouring Bavaria, is named after the Boii, who were a large Celtic nation known to the Romans for their migrations and settlement in northern Italy and other places. Another part of the nation moved west with the Helvetii into southern France, which was one of the events leading to the interventions of Julius Caesar's Gaulish campaign of 58 BC. The emigration of the Helvetii and Boii left southern Germany and Bohemia a lightly inhabited \"desert\" into which Suebic peoples arrived, speaking Germanic languages, and became dominant over remaining Celtic groups. To the south, over the Danube, the Romans extended their empire, and to the southeast in present-day Hungary, were Dacian peoples.\n\nIn the area of modern Bohemia the Marcomanni and other Suebic groups were led by their king Marobodus, after suffering defeat to Roman forces in Germany. He took advantage of the natural defenses provided by its mountains and forests. They were able to maintain a strong alliance with neighbouring tribes including (at different times) the Lugii, Quadi, Hermunduri, Semnones, and Buri, which was sometimes partly controlled by the Roman Empire, and sometimes in conflict with it, for example in the second century when they fought Marcus Aurelius.\n\nIn late classical times and the early Middle Ages, two new Suebic groupings appeared to the west of Bohemia in southern Germany, the Alemanni (in the Helvetian desert), and the Bavarians (Baiuvarii). Many Suebic tribes from the Bohemian region took part in such movements westwards, even settling as far away as Spain and Portugal. With them were also tribes who had pushed from the east, such as the Vandals, and Alans.\n\nOther groups pushed southwards towards Pannonia. The last known mention of the kingdom of the Marcomanni, concerning a queen named Fritigil is in the 4th century, and she was thought to have lived in or near Pannonia. The Suebian Langobardi, who moved over many generations from the Baltic Sea, via the Elbe and Pannonia to Italy, recorded in a tribal history a time spent in \"Bainaib\".\n\nAfter this migration period, Bohemia was partially repopulated around the 6th century, and eventually Slavic tribes arrived from the east, and their language began to replace the older Germanic, Celtic and Sarmatian ones. These are precursors of today's Czechs, though the exact amount of Slavic immigration is a subject of debate. The Slavic influx was divided into two or three waves. The first wave came from the southeast and east, when the Germanic Lombards left Bohemia (c. 568 AD). Soon after, from the 630s to 660s, the territory was taken by Samo's tribal confederation. His death marked the end of the old \"Slavonic\" confederation, the second attempt to establish such a Slavonic union after Carantania in Carinthia.\n\nOther sources (\"Descriptio civitatum et regionum ad septentrionalem plagam Danubii\", Bavaria, 800–850) divide the population of Bohemia at this time into the Merehani, Marharaii, Beheimare (Bohemani) and Fraganeo. (The suffix \"-ani\" or \"-ni\" means \"people of-\"). Christianity first appeared in the early 9th century, but only became dominant much later, in the 10th or 11th century.\n\nThe 9th century was crucial for the future of Bohemia. The manorial system sharply declined, as it did in Bavaria. The influence of the central \"Fraganeo-Czechs\" grew, as a result of the important cultic centre in their territory. They were Slavic-speaking and thus contributed to the transformation of diverse neighbouring populations into a new nation named and led by them with a united \"slavic\" ethnic consciousness.\n\nBohemia was made a part of the early Slavic state of Great Moravia, under the rule of Svatopluk I (r. 870–894). After Svatopluk's death Great Moravia was weakened by years of internal conflict and constant warfare, ultimately collapsing and fragmenting due to the continual incursions of the invading nomadic Magyars. Bohemia's initial incorporation into the Moravian Empire resulted in the extensive Christianization of the population. A native monarchy arose to the throne, and Bohemia came under the rule of the Přemyslid dynasty, which would rule the Czech lands for the next several hundred years.\n\nThe Přemyslids secured their frontiers from the remnant Asian interlocurs, after the collapse of the Moravian state, by entering into a state of semi-vassalage to the Frankish rulers. This alliance was facilitated by Bohemia's conversion to Christianity, in the 9th century. Continuing close relations were developed with the East Frankish kingdom, which devolved from the Carolingian Empire, into East Francia, eventually becoming the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nAfter a decisive victory of the Holy Roman Empire and Bohemia over invading Magyars in the 955 Battle of Lechfeld, Boleslaus I of Bohemia was granted the March of Moravia by German emperor Otto the Great. Bohemia would remain a largely autonomous state under the Holy Roman Empire for several decades. The jurisdiction of the Holy Roman Empire was definitively reasserted when Jaromír of Bohemia was granted fief of the Kingdom of Bohemia by Emperor King Henry II of the Holy Roman Empire, with the promise that he hold it as a vassal once he re-occupied Prague with a German army in 1004, ending the rule of Boleslaw I of Poland.\n\nThe first to use the title of \"King of Bohemia\" were the Přemyslid dukes Vratislav II (1085) and Vladislav II (1158), but their heirs would return to the title of duke. The title of king became hereditary under Ottokar I (1198). His grandson Ottokar II (king from 1253–1278) conquered a short-lived empire which contained modern Austria and Slovenia. The mid-13th century saw the beginning of substantial German immigration as the court sought to replace losses from the brief Mongol invasion of Europe in 1241. Germans settled primarily along the northern, western, and southern borders of Bohemia, although many lived in towns throughout the kingdom.\n\nThe House of Luxembourg accepted the invitation to the Bohemian throne with the marriage to the Premyslid heiress, Elizabeth and the crowning subsequent of John I of Bohemia in 1310. His son, Charles IV became King of Bohemia in 1346. He founded Charles University in Prague, central Europe's first university, two years later.\n\nHis reign brought Bohemia to its peak both politically and in total area, resulting in his being the first King of Bohemia to also be elected as Holy Roman Emperor. Under his rule the Bohemian crown controlled such diverse lands as Moravia, Silesia, Upper Lusatia and Lower Lusatia, Brandenburg, an area around Nuremberg called New Bohemia, Luxembourg, and several small towns scattered around Germany.\n\nDuring the ecumenical Council of Constance in 1415, Jan Hus, the rector of Charles University and a prominent reformer and religious thinker, was sentenced to be burnt at the stake as a heretic. The verdict was passed despite the fact that Hus was granted formal protection by Emperor Sigismund of Luxembourg prior to the journey. Hus was invited to attend the council to defend himself and the Czech positions in the religious court, but with the emperor's approval, he was executed on 6 July 1415. The execution of Hus, as well as five consecutive papal crusades against followers of Hus, forced the Bohemians to defend themselves in the Hussite Wars.\n\nThe uprising against imperial forces was led by a former mercenary, Jan Žižka of Trocnov. As the leader of the Hussite armies, he used innovative tactics and weapons, such as howitzers, pistols, and fortified wagons, which were revolutionary for the time, and established Žižka as a great general who never lost a battle.\n\nAfter Žižka's death, Prokop the Great took over the command for the army, and under his lead the Hussites were victorious for another ten years, to the sheer terror of Europe. The Hussite cause gradually splintered into two main factions, the moderate Utraquists and the more fanatic Taborites. The Utraquists began to lay the groundwork for an agreement with the Catholic Church and found the more radical views of the Taborites distasteful. Additionally, with general war-weariness and yearning for order, the Utraquists were able to eventually defeat the Taborites in the Battle of Lipany in 1434. Sigismund said after the battle that \"only the Bohemians could defeat the Bohemians.\"\n\nDespite an apparent victory for the Catholics, the Bohemian Utraquists were still strong enough to negotiate freedom of religion in 1436. This happened in the so-called Basel Compacts, declaring peace and freedom between Catholics and Utraquists. It would only last for a short period of time, as Pope Pius II declared the Basel Compacts to be invalid in 1462.\n\nIn 1458, George of Podebrady was elected to ascend to the Bohemian throne. He is remembered for his attempt to set up a pan-European \"Christian League\", which would form all the states of Europe into a community based on religion. In the process of negotiating, he appointed Leo of Rozmital to tour the European courts and to conduct the talks. However, the negotiations were not completed, because George's position was substantially damaged over time by his deteriorating relationship with the Pope.\n\nAfter the death of King Louis II of Hungary and Bohemia in the Battle of Mohács in 1526, Archduke Ferdinand I of Austria became the new King of Bohemia and the country became a constituent state of the Habsburg Monarchy.\n\nBohemia enjoyed religious freedom between 1436 and 1620, and became one of the most liberal countries of the Christian world during that period. In 1609, Holy Roman Emperor Rudolph II, who made Prague again the capital of the Empire at the time, himself a Roman Catholic, was moved by the Bohemian nobility to publish \"Maiestas Rudolphina\", which confirmed the older \"Confessio Bohemica\" of 1575.\n\nAfter Emperor Matthias II and then King of Bohemia Ferdinand II (later Holy Roman Emperor) began oppressing the rights of Protestants in Bohemia, the resulting Bohemian Revolt led to outbreak of the Thirty Years' War in 1618. Elector Frederick V of the Electorate of the Palatinate, a Calvinist Protestant, was elected by the Bohemian nobility to replace Ferdinand on the Bohemian throne, and was known as the Winter King. Frederick's wife, the popular Elizabeth Stuart and subsequently Elizabeth of Bohemia, known as the Winter Queen or Queen of Hearts, was the daughter of King James VI of Scotland.\n\nAfter Frederick's defeat in the Battle of White Mountain in 1620, 27 Bohemian estates leaders together with Jan Jesenius, rector of the Charles University of Prague were executed on the Prague's Old Town Square on 21 June 1621 and the rest were exiled from the country; their lands were then given to Catholic loyalists (mostly of Bavarian and Saxon origin), this ended the pro-reformation movement in Bohemia and also ended the role of Prague as ruling city of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn the so-called \"renewed constitution\" of 1627, the German language was established as a second official language in the Czech lands. The Czech language formally remained the first language in the kingdom, however, both German and Latin were widely spoken among the ruling classes, although German became increasingly dominant, while Czech was spoken in much of the countryside.\n\nThe formal independence of Bohemia was further jeopardized when the Bohemian Diet approved administrative reform in 1749. It included the indivisibility of the Habsburg Empire and the centralization of rule; this essentially meant the merging of the Royal Bohemian Chancellery with the Austrian Chancellery.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, the Czech National Revival movement, in cooperation with part of the Bohemian aristocracy, started a campaign for restoration of the kingdom's historic rights, whereby the Czech language was to regain its historical role and replace German as the language of administration. The enlightened absolutism of Joseph II and Leopold II, who introduced minor language concessions, showed promise for the Czech movement, but many of these reforms were later rescinded. During the Revolution of 1848, many Czech nationalists called for autonomy for Bohemia from Habsburg Austria, but the revolutionaries were defeated. The old Bohemian Diet, one of the last remnants of the independence, was dissolved, although the Czech language experienced a rebirth as romantic nationalism developed among the Czechs.\n\nIn 1861, a new elected Bohemian Diet was established. The renewal of the old Bohemian Crown (Kingdom of Bohemia, Margraviate of Moravia, and Duchy of Upper and Lower Silesia) became the official political program of both Czech liberal politicians and the majority of Bohemian aristocracy (\"state rights program\"), while parties representing the German minority and small part of the aristocracy proclaimed their loyalty to the centralistic Constitution (so-called \"Verfassungstreue\").\n\nAfter the defeat of Austria in the Austro-Prussian War in 1866, Hungarian politicians achieved the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, ostensibly creating equality between the Austrian and Hungarian halves of the empire. An attempt by the Czechs to create a tripartite monarchy (Austria-Hungary-Bohemia) failed in 1871. The \"state rights program\" remained the official platform of all Czech political parties (except for social democrats) until 1918.\n\nAfter World War I, Bohemia (as the largest and most populous land) became the core of the newly formed country of Czechoslovakia, which combined Bohemia, Moravia, Czech Silesia, Upper Hungary (present-day Slovakia) and Carpathian Ruthenia into one state. Under its first president, Tomáš Masaryk, Czechoslovakia became a liberal democratic republic but serious issues emerged regarding the Czech majority's relationship with the native German and Hungarian minorities.\n\nFollowing the Munich Agreement in 1938, the border regions of Bohemia historically inhabited predominantly by ethnic Germans (the Sudetenland) were annexed to Nazi Germany. This was the only time in Bohemian history that its territory was politically divided. The remnants of Bohemia and Moravia were then annexed by Germany in 1939, while the Slovak lands became the separate Slovak Republic, a puppet state of Nazi Germany. From 1939 to 1945 Bohemia, (without the Sudetenland), together with Moravia formed the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (\"Reichsprotektorat Böhmen und Mähren\").\n\nAny open opposition to German occupation was brutally suppressed by the Nazi authorities and many Czech patriots were executed as a result. After World War II ended in 1945, the vast majority of remaining Germans were expelled by force by the order of the re-established Czechoslovak central government, based on the Potsdam Agreement, and their property was confiscated by the Czech authorities. This severely depopulated the area and from this moment on locales were only referred to in their Czech equivalents regardless of their previous demographic makeup.\n\nThe Communist Party won the most votes in free elections but not a simple majority. Klement Gottwald, the communist leader, became Prime Minister of a coalition government.\n\nIn February 1948 the non-communist members of the government resigned in protest against arbitrary measures by the communists and their Soviet protectors in many of the state's institutions. Gottwald and the communists responded with a coup d'état and installed a pro-Soviet authoritarian state. In 1949, Bohemia ceased to be an administrative unit of Czechoslovakia, as the country was divided into administrative regions that did not follow the historical borders.\n\nIn 1989, Agnes of Bohemia became the first saint from a Central European country to be canonized by Pope John Paul II before the \"Velvet Revolution\" later that year.\n\nAfter the dissolution of Czechoslovakia in 1993, the territory of Bohemia remained in the Czech Republic. The new Constitution of the Czech Republic provided for higher administrative units to be established, providing for the possibility of Bohemia as an administrative unit, but did not specify the form they would take. A constitutional act in 1997 rejected the restoration of self-governing historical Czech lands and decided for the regional system that has been in use since 2000. Petr Pithart, former Czech prime minister and president of the Senate at the time, remained one of the main advocates of the land system, claiming that the primary reason for its refusal was the fear of possible Moravian separatism.\n\nBohemia thus remains a historical region, and its administration is divided between the Prague, Central Bohemia, Plzeň, Karlovy Vary, Ústí nad Labem, Liberec, and Hradec Králové Regions, as well as parts of the Pardubice, Vysočina, South Bohemian and South Moravian Regions. In addition to their use in the names of the regions, the historical land names remain in use in names of municipalities, cadastral areas, railway stations or geographical names. The distinction and border between the Czech lands is also preserved in local dialects.\n\nThe area around Kłodzko (; ; ) in south-western Poland was culturally and traditionally a part of Bohemia. Kłodzko Land has now been a part of Lower Silesia since its conquest by the Kingdom of Prussia in 1763. Referred to as \"Little Prague\" (), the Kłodzko Valley region on the Nysa Kłodzka river was the focus of several attempts to reincorporate the area into Czechoslovakia, one of several Polish–Czechoslovak border conflicts.\n\nThe last attempt occurred in May 1945 when Czechoslovakia tried to annex the area on behalf of the Czech minority present in the western part of the Kłodzko Valley and known as the \"Czech Corner\". Pressure brought on by the Soviet Union led to a ceasing of military operations, with the Czech minority being expelled to Germany and Czechoslovakia. According to canon law of the Roman Catholic Church, the area remained part of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Prague until 1972.\n\nCapitalizing on interest regarding the Kladsko area in the Czech national psyche, a special tourist area in the Náchod District has been designated as the \"Kladsko Borderland Tourist Area\" (tourism district; ). This area, entirely within the Czech Republic, was formerly known as the \"Jirásek's Region\" (), \"Adršpach rocks\" ().\n\nKraje of Bohemia during the Kingdom of Bohemia\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4218502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4218502", "title": "Caspar Barlaeus", "text": "Caspar Barlaeus\n\nCaspar Barlaeus (February 12, 1584 – January 14, 1648) was a Dutch polymath and Renaissance humanist, a theologian, poet, and historian.\n\nBorn Caspar (Kaspar) van Baerle in Antwerp, Barlaeus' parents fled the city when it was occupied by Spanish troops shortly after his birth. They settled in Zaltbommel, where his father eventually would become head of the Latin school. Caspar studied theology and philosophy at the University of Leiden. After his study, he preached for 1.5 years in the village of Nieuwe-Tonge, before returning to Leiden in 1612 as an under-regent of a college. From 1617 he also was professor in philosophy at the university. Because of his remonstrant sympathies, he was forced out of this job in 1619. He then studied and graduated in medicines (in Caen), but never practiced professionally.\n\nFrom 1631, he was professor of philosophy and rhetoric at the Amsterdam Athenaeum, \"Athenaeum Illustre\"), which is commonly regarded as the predecessor of the University of Amsterdam; the \"Athenaeum\" had its seat in the fourteenth-century Agnietenkapel. In January 1632, Barlaeus, along with Gerard Vossius, held his inaugural speech at the Amsterdam Atheneum. Barlaeus later encouraged Martinus Hortensius to lecture –and give an inaugural speech- at the same institution.\n\nBarlaeus published many volumes of poetry, particularly Latin poetry. He also wrote the eulogy that accompanies the 1622 portrait of cartographer Willem Blaeu.\n\nBarlaeus was involved in various aspects of cartography and history. He translated Antonio de Herrera's \"Description of the West Indies\" in 1622. In 1627, Barlaeus provided the text for the atlas of Italy created by Jodocus Hondius. In 1647, he wrote an account of the Dutch colonial empire in Brazil, inspired by the leadership of John Maurice of Nassau (Johan Maurits) at Recife. The \"Rerum per octennium in Brasilia et alibi nuper gestarum sub praefectura\", as it is called, contains numerous maps and plates of the region. The engravings of Brazilian northeastern locales, fleets, battles, and maps were for 160 years the main references to Brazilian landscapes available in Europe, and are well known by Brazilians today as the most important examples of pre-national art. Franciscus Plante wrote a similar work in the same year called \"Mauritias\", and included the maps already published in Barlaeus' work. These were maps of \"Ceará\", \"Pernambuco\", \"Paraíba\", and \"Pernambuco Borealá\". Plante also incorporated a portrait of John Maurice that had already been included in Barlaeus' work.\n\nIn 1638, Barlaeus wrote \"Medicea Hospes, sive descriptio publicae gratulationis, qua ... Mariam de Medicis, excepit senatus populusque Amstelodamensis\". Published by Willem Blaeu, it includes two large folding engraved views of the ceremonies on the occasion of the French queen mother Marie de Medici's triumphal entry into Amsterdam in 1638. Considered an important moment in Dutch history, Marie's visit lent \"de facto\" international recognition of the newly formed Dutch Republic. Marie de Medici actually traveled to the Netherlands as exile, but spectacular displays and water pageants took place in the city's harbor in celebration of her visit. There was a procession led by two mounted trumpeters; a large temporary structure erected on an artificial island in the Amstel River was built especially for the festival. This building was designed to display a series of dramatic tableaux in tribute to her once she set foot on the floating island and entered its pavilion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31419980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31419980", "title": "Ceram Prize", "text": "Ceram Prize\n\nThe Ceram Prize () is a prize for non-fiction books in archaeology issued by Rheinisches Landesmuseum Bonn. It is named for C. W. Ceram, famous for his popularization of archaeology.\n\nThe prize has been awarded in irregular intervals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1302754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1302754", "title": "Claude Fleury", "text": "Claude Fleury\n\nClaude Fleury (6 December 1640, Paris – 14 July 1723, Paris), was a French ecclesiastical historian.\n\nDestined for the bar, he was educated at the aristocratic College de Clermont (now that of Louis-le-Grand). In 1658 he was nominated an advocate to the \"parlement\" of Paris, and for nine years followed the legal profession. But he had long been of a religious disposition, and in 1667 turned from law to theology. He had been some time in orders when Louis XIV, in 1672, selected him as tutor of the princes of Conti, with such success that the king next entrusted to him the education of the count of Vermandois, one of his natural sons, on whose death in 1683 Fleury received for his services the Cistercian abbey of Loc-Dieu, in the diocese of Rodez.\n\nIn 1689 he was appointed sub-preceptor of the dukes of Burgundy, of Anjou, and of Berry, and thus became intimately associated with Fénelon, their chief tutor. In 1696 he was elected to fill the place of La Bruyère in the Académie française; and on the completion of the education of the young princes the king bestowed upon him the rich priory of Argenteuil, in the diocese of Paris (1706). On assuming this benefice he resigned, with rare disinterestedness, that of the abbey of Loc-Dieu.\n\nAbout this time he began his great work, the first of the kind in France, and one for which he had been collecting materials for thirty years—the \"Histoire ecclésiastique\". Fleury's evident intention was to write a history of the church for all classes of society; but at the time in which his great work appeared it was less religion than theology that absorbed the attention of the clergy and the educated public; and his work accordingly appealed to the student rather than to the popular reader, dwelling as it does very particularly on questions of doctrine, of discipline, of supremacy, and of rivalry between the priesthood and the imperial power.\n\nNevertheless, it had a great success. The first edition, printed at Paris in 20 volumes (4to), 1691, was followed by many others, among which may be mentioned that of Brussels, in 32 vols (8vo), 1692, and that of Nîmes, in 25 vols (8vo), 1778 to 1780. The work of Fleury only comes down to the year 1414. It was continued by Jean Claude Fabre and Goujet down to 1595, in 16 vols. (4to). In consulting the work of Fleury and its supplement, the general table of contents, published by Rondet, Paris, 1758, 1 vol. (4to) will be found very useful. Translations have been made of the entire work into Latin, German and Italian. The Latin translation, published at Augsburg, 1758–1759, 85 vols. (8vo), carries the work down to 1684.\n\nFleury was appointed confessor to the young King Louis XV in 1716, because, as the duke of Orleans said, he was neither Jansenist nor Molinist, nor Ultramontanist, but Catholic. His great learning was equalled by the modest simplicity of his life and the uprightness of his conduct.\n\nFleury left many works besides his \"Histoire ecclésiastique\". The following deserve special mention:\nA number of the smaller works were published in one volume at Paris in 1807. The Roman Congregation of the Index condemned his \"Catéchisme historique\" (1679) and the \"Institution du droit ecclésiastique\" (1687).\n\nSee C Ernst Simonetti, \"Der Character eines Geschichtsschreibers in dem Leben und aus den Schriften des Abbé C. Fleury\" (Göttingen 1746, 4to); CFP Jaeger, \"Notice sur C. Fleury, considéré comme historien de l'eglise\" (Strassburg, 1847, 8vo); Reichlin-Meldegg, \"Geschichte des Christentums\", I.\n"}
{"id": "48758632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48758632", "title": "Communist insurgency in Myanmar", "text": "Communist insurgency in Myanmar\n\nThe Communist insurgency in Myanmar (known as \"Burma\" from 1948 to 1988) was led by the Communist Party of Burma (CPB) (\"white flags\"), and the Communist Party (Burma) (\"red flags\"). The conflict ended in 1988, when the armed wing of the CPB disbanded following the Fall of Communism and the ousting of the Burmese socialist dictatorship.\n\nThe CPB fought for independence from the United Kingdom and against the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II, prior to the eruption of civil conflict in Myanmar. \n\nWhile in Insein prison in July 1941, Thakin Soe and Than Tun had co-authored the \"Insein Manifesto\", which declared fascism as the major enemy in the coming war and called for temporary co-operation with the British and the establishment of a broad coalition alliance that should include the Soviet Union. It followed the Popular Front line advanced by the Bulgarian communist leader Georgi Dimitrov, at the Seventh Comintern Congress in 1935. \n\nThis was against the prevailing opinion of the Dobama Movement, including Thakin Aung San, who had secretly left Myanmar with a group of young men, who later became known as the Thirty Comrades, to receive military training from the Japanese and founded the Burma Independence Army (BIA), later renamed the Burma Defence Army (BDA) and subsequently the Burma National Army (BNA), whom fought Allied Forces.\n\nA puppet government was set up during the occupation by the Japanese on 1 August 1943. Soe had gone underground in the Irrawaddy Delta to organize armed resistance soon after the invasion, and Than Tun as Minister of Land and Agriculture was able to pass on intelligence to Soe. Other communist leaders Thakins Thein Pe and Tin Shwe made contact in July 1942 with the exiled colonial government in Simla, India. In January 1944 at a secret meeting near Dedaye in the Delta, the CPB successfully held its First Congress chaired by Soe.\n\nThe Communists were in the forefront of the armed resistance which subsequently became a national uprising on 27 March 1945, led by the BNA under the command of General Aung San. The communist commander Ba Htoo of the northwest command based in Mandalay started the rebellion three weeks earlier on 8 March. The CPB together with the BNA and the People's Revolutionary Party (PRP, later renamed the Socialist Party), had formed the Anti-Fascist Organisation (AFO) at a meeting in Pegu in August 1944; it was transformed into the Anti-Fascist People's Freedom League (AFPFL) a year later after the defeat of Japan and the return of the British colonial administration to continue the fight for independence. The party that had started with a small group of men now became a major legal political party from 1945 until 1948 when Burma gained independence from Britain.\n\nIn February 1946 Thakin Soe denounced the leadership, accusing them of Browderism, the form of revisionism espoused by Earl Browder, leader of the American Communist Party, who proposed that armed struggle would no longer be necessary, as world fascism and imperialism had been weakened, making constitutional methods a real option to achieve \"national liberation\". Thein Pe, who had replaced Soe as secretary general, was the leader responsible for the policy paper on strategy entitled \"Toward Better Mutual Understanding and Greater Cooperation\" written in India and adopted at the party's Second Congress at Bagaya Road, Rangoon in July 1945. Soe broke away from the CPB to form a splinter group called the Communist Party (Burma) or the \"red flags\". The majority remained with Thakins Than Tun and Thein Pe and continued to co-operate with the AFPFL; the main party became known as the white flag communists although the title has never been officially accepted. During negotiations the British noticed that Than Tun was the thinker behind Aung San as he referred to his brother-in-law repeatedly for his opinion. Also dubbed 'Thein-Than Communists' in the popular press, in the end they failed to achieve 'Leftist Unity' with Aung San and the Socialists led by U Nu and Kyaw Nyein within the AFPFL.\n\nSoe and Ba Tin had traveled to India in September 1945 to talk to the Communist Party of India where Browderism was already under attack, and Soe came back convinced that armed struggle was the only way forward. Amidst widespread strikes starting with the Rangoon Police and mass rallies, the new British Governor Sir Hubert Rance offered Aung San and the others seats in the Executive Council which after an initial refusal was taken up in September 1946. The CPB had by now abandoned the Browderist line, and a rift that had opened up between the party and Aung San with the socialists culminated in Than Tun being forced to resign as general secretary of the AFPFL in July of that year, a position he had held since its inception. The party was finally expelled from the AFPFL on 2 November after the communists had accused Aung San and the socialists of 'kneeling before imperialism', selling out by joining the Executive Council, and calling off the general strike.\n\nIn February 1947, Ba Thein Tin and communist student leader Aung Gyi attended the British Empire Conference of Communist Parties in London, the first time the CPB took part in an international communist forum. After denouncing the elections to the Constituent Assembly that took place the following April, the party fielded 25 junior candidates but won just 7 seats. The assassination of Aung San and his cabinet members on 19 July stunned the CPB as much as the rest of the country, but the party was still anxious to build a united front with the AFPFL to drive the British out of Burma, convinced that the assassination was an imperialist plot to stop Aung San from achieving Leftist Unity.\n\nThakin Nu concluded negotiations that Aung San had started with the British premier Clement Attlee in London, and the Nu-Attlee Treaty of October 1947 was condemned as a sham by the communists, the bone of contention in particular being the Let Ya-Freeman Defence Agreement, appended as an annexe to the treaty. It provided for an initial period of three years for a British military training mission to remain in the country and a possible future military alliance with Britain. This was to the CPB proof of British intention to subvert Burma's sovereignty and Nu's capitulation.\n\nOn 8 November 1947, Nu called for a new coalition of socialists, the CPB and the People's Volunteer Organisation (PVO) formed from the demobbed war veterans by Aung San as his own paramilitary force. When it failed Nu accused the communists of gathering arms for an insurrection. The impact of communist campaigning against the treaty left its mark in Burma's decision not to join the British Commonwealth. The party's Burma-born Bengali theoretician Goshal's thesis in December titled \"On the Present Political Situation and Our Tasks\" set out a revolutionary strategy reviving the slogan 'final seizure of power' from the previous January, and called for a 'national rising to tear up the treaty of slavery', nationalisation of all British and foreign assets, the abolition of all forms of landlordism and debt, the dismantling of the state bureaucracy and its replacement with a people's government, and alliances and trade agreements with 'democratic China, fighting Vietnam and Indonesia' and other democratic countries resisting 'Anglo-American imperialist domination'. A twofold strategy would be followed: an escalating campaign of strikes by workers and government employees in Rangoon and other cities, and the establishment of \"liberated\" areas in the countryside to be defended by Red Guards consisting of PVOs trained in guerilla warfare.\n\nFebruary 1948 saw a wave of strikes in Rangoon by the All Burma Trade Union Congress (ABTUC) backed by the CPB, and in March a 75,000 strong mass rally by the All Burma Peasants Organisation (ABPO) at Pyinmana. Nu gave the order to arrest the communist leaders convinced that they were planning an uprising on Resistance Day, 27 March, only to find the CPB headquarters at Bagaya empty on the morning of 28 March; his quarry had flown to their stronghold Pyinmana to start an armed revolution. The CPB was not however officially outlawed until October 1953.\n\nWithin eight months of independence Burma plunged into an all out civil war. Soe's red flag communists had already started a rebellion, so had the Rakhine nationalists led by the veteran monk U Seinda as well as the Mujahid Rakhine Muslims. The PVO had split into White-band and Yellow-band factions; the majority White-band PVO led by Bo La Yaung, a member of the Thirty Comrades, and Bo Po Kun, joined the insurrection in July. Nu's government deployed the Karen and Kachin Rifles to suppress the communist uprising, and took Pyay, Thayetmyo and Pyinmana during the latter half of 1948. The Karen National Union (KNU) rebelled at the end of January 1949 when the Army Chief of Staff Gen. Smith Dun, an ethnic Karen was replaced by Gen. Ne Win, a socialist commander and senior member of the Thirty Comrades after Aung San and Bo Let Ya. The Mon joined the Karen. The Pa-O in the Shan State also rose up. Three regiments of the Burma Rifles also went underground led by communist commanders Bo Zeya, Bo Yan Aung and Bo Ye Htut, all members of the Thirty Comrades, forming the Revolutionary Burma Army (RBA).\n\nThe CPB's appraisal of Burma as a 'semi-colonial semi-feudal' state led to the Maoist line of establishing guerilla bases among the peasants in the countryside as opposed to mobilising the urban proletariat, although it continued to support above-ground leftist opposition parties such as the Burma Workers and Peasants Party (BWPP) led by trade union leaders Thakins Lwin and Chit Maung, and dubbed 'crypto-communists' or 'red socialists' by the Rangoon press. They tried unsuccessfully to bring the communists back into mainstream politics, and in 1956 formed an alliance called the National United Front to contest the election on a 'peace ticket' winning 35% of the vote though only a small number of seats.\n\nThe politburo's decision to fight 'for the very existence of our party' at a clandestine central committee meeting in April 1948 in Rangoon was confirmed the following month by the full plenum of the CC at Hpyu 120 miles north of the capital. The headquarters of the CPB remained on the move mostly in the forests and hills along the Sittang River valley, Pyinmana – Yamethin area in central Burma, sometimes north into the Three M triangle (Mandalay – Meiktila – Myingyan). Debt was abolished, and farming and trading co-operatives established in areas under their control. One year into the insurrection its forces were reorganised along Maoist lines into a main force, mobile guerilla forces and local people's militia, with the command shared between military and political commissars. In September 1950 the People's Army (PA) was formed by merging the communist People's Liberation Army (PLA) with Bo Zeya's Revolutionary Burma Army (RBA). Its regular forces consisted of four main divisions, each with 1,000 men under arms.\n\nThe Karen National Union (KNU) with its 'reactionary feudal leadership' was regarded as being used by the British to destabilise the Union by both the AFPFL government and the communists, although Than Tun had supported the earlier Rakhine nationalist rebellion against the British, the Shan struggle against the feudal autocracy, and the Karen right to self-determination. The civil war was thus waged from three sides: the AFPFL, the Communist-PVOs and the ethnic minority nationalists with the KNU threatening Rangoon itself in early 1949. Nu estimated government casualties alone at 3,424 dead including 1,352 army personnel in 1952.\n\nThe communist military offensive began to lose traction, and in 1955, the CPB put forward the 'Peace and Unity' proposal. It combined a strong peace movement by its above-ground supporters and sympathizers and proposals by Than Tun to the AFPFL government in 1956. War-weariness had led to a desire for peace, and the move was welcomed by both the leftist opposition and conservative groups in Rangoon. Thakin Kodaw Hmaing, the revered veteran nationalist leader, formed an Internal Peace Committee which in 1958 was allowed by the government to speak on the CPB's behalf. The results of the 1956 election, where the National United Front did very well on a peace ticket, had also given the AFPFL a jolt.\n\nOn the international front, US support of the Kuomintang (KMT) forces, that had crossed over from Yunnan province into northeastern Burma after Mao's victory in China, had resulted in Burma's refusal to join the South-East Asia Treaty Organisation (SEATO). Zhou Enlai visited Rangoon on his return from the Geneva Conference on Indo-China to meet Nu, and issued a joint communique reaffirming the 'five principles of peaceful co-existence' and the right of people 'to choose their own state system'; Nu repaid the visit the same year receiving the assurance that Chinese leaders had no contact with the CPB. Ne Win also led a military delegation to Beijing in 1957, and met Chairman Mao Zedong. A week-long visit in December 1955 by Nikolai Bulganin and Nikita Khrushchev appeared to endorse Burma as a model non-aligned, socialist Third World country developing at its own pace; Burma was a strong supporter of the 1955 Bandung Conference. Joseph Stalin's death and the shift in Soviet policy under Khrushchev contributed to the mood of national reconciliation.\n\nNow U Nu turned the communist peace offensive to his advantage and came up with a very successful 'arms for democracy' offer. Tatmadaw (Burma Armed Forces) offensives in early 1956, Operation \"Aung Thura\" (Valiant Victory) in Pakokku area and Operation \"Aung Tayza\" (Glorious Victory) in Pathein area, had been partly successful. The year 1958 saw mass surrenders of first the Rakhine nationalists led by U Seinda, next the Pa-O, Mon, and Shan communists, but most importantly the PVO led by Bo Po Kun. The official figure was 5,500 armed insurgents that 'entered the light', of which about 800 were white flag communists mainly in Sittwe, northern Rakhine State. The one crucial exception was the KNU.\n\nYugoslavia became the primary arms supplier for the Burmese government beginning in 1952, when the Burmese reached out to Belgrade due to the slow and uneasy support from the United States and the United Kingdom. The two nations became very close as a result, and the Yugoslav National Army sent advisors to aid in the front lines. The sudden strong relationship between Burma and Yugoslavia prompted concern among the Americans, who worried the Yugoslav support would strengthen Marxist ideology in the government. General Ne Win, who previously sought support solely from the West, was impressed with the speed of the Yugoslav-Burmese cooperation, and traveled to Belgrade in 1953.\n\nIn 1963 Ne Win as head of the Union Revolutionary Council government launched a peace offensive starting with a general amnesty on 1 April. Bo Ye Htut, a member of the Thirty Comrades and central military committee of the CPB who had been to Rangoon on a secret peace mission before the 1958 AFPFL split, took the offer together with Bo Ye Maung and Bo Sein Tin. The KNU split in the same month between the KNUP and the Karen Revolutionary Council (KRC) led by Saw Hunter Tha Hmwe. The first insurgent group to arrive in Rangoon was the red flag delegation in June later joined by Thakin Soe himself from Arakan in August. After just three meetings the talks were abruptly ended by the RC on 20 August and the red flag communists were flown back to Sittwe.\n\nThree CPB teams arrived in July and September by air from China led by Bo Zeya, Yebaw Aung Gyi, Thakins Pu and Ba Thein Tin. These 'Beijing returnees' were allowed to travel to the party’s jungle headquarters in the Bago Yoma near Paukkaung where the leadership, reunited after 15 years, held an historic meeting of the Central Committee. Talks began on 2 September after the CPB delegation headed by the general secretary Yebaw Htay and the People's Army's chief of staff Bo Zeya arrived on 28 August. A second team headed by Thakin Zin, politbureau member and secretary of the NDUF which agreed to negotiate as one team, arrived on 20 September. Meetings with the CPB and NDUF overshadowed those with other nationalities such as the Shan and Kachin delegations.\n\nTalks broke down on 14 November, when the Revolutionary Council government demanded that:\n\nExpectations had been running high, and the People’s Peace Committee, set up by the NUF and supported by Thakin Kodaw Hmaing and former brigadier Kyaw Zaw, staged a Six-District Peace March in early November from Minhla to Rangoon. The marchers were cheered and applauded along the entire route by large crowds chanting anti-government slogans, and given food parcels collected by the Rangoon University Students Union (RUSU) and the All Burma Federation of Student Unions (ABFSU). When they reached Rangoon at a mass rally of 200,000 in front of city hall, speakers openly supported the NDUF’s demand to keep its weapons and territory. Although at first the CPB and NDUF had misinterpreted Ne Win’s peace offensive as a sign of weakness desperate for a solution, once they arrived in Rangoon they realised it was going to be a mainly cosmetic exercise. They therefore took the opportunity to re-establish contacts and meet family and friends.\n\nOver 900 people were arrested in the immediate aftermath, mostly BWPP and NUF activists, but also Thaton Hla Pe, leader of the Union Pa-O National Organisation (UPNO) and formerly of the insurgent Pa-O National Organisation (PNO), who was one of the main organisers of the peace march, and Nai Non Lar leader of the former Mon People’s Front (MPF). By the end of the year over 2,000 were believed to be in prison. Almost the entire executive committees of the RUSU and the ABFSU fled to join the CPB.\n\nIn November 1978 Thakin Ba Thein Tin presented a ‘political report’ at a historic meeting of the politburo held in Panghsang, unanimously approved at the CC meeting in early 1979. It formed the basis of the resolutions passed in September 1985 at the CPB’s Third Congress, 40 years since the last one in Rangoon, attended by just 170 of the party’s estimated 5,000 members.\n\nThe party’s general programme was drawn up in the light of ‘the experiences of the last 30 years of the armed struggle’.\n\nShortly after Myanmar resigned from the Non-Aligned Movement in protest against Soviet and Vietnamese manipulation at the September 1979 Havana Conference, the Chinese Foreign Minister Huang Hua paid a visit to Rangoon. Ne Win announced an amnesty in 1980 which saw the return of U Nu and others from Thailand. The CPB responded with an attack on Mong Yawng, but proposed talks in September after letting the amnesty expire. The first meeting took place in Beijing in October between the teams led by Ba Thein Tin and Ne Win who paid a surprise visit to China leaving the Kachin delegation in the middle of the talks in Rangoon. At the second meeting headed by Thakin Pe Tint for the CPB and Maj. Gen. Aye Ko for the BSPP the following May in Lashio, three new conditions were put on the table by Aye Ko:\n\n\nThe CPB was told that according to Article 11 of the 1974 Constitution which had established Burma as a one-party state there was no place for another political party. Ne Win ended the peace talks on 14 May and let the ceasefire deadline of 31 May with the KIO pass without replying to the Kachin position. There had been no ceasefire agreement with the CPB.\n\nThe VOPB began to broadcast appeals for ending the civil war, developing democracy and building national unity in a new multi-party system. The CPB still commanded 15,000 troops in the north-east, and the Tatmadaw, after resuming the Operation \"King Conqueror\" belatedly in 1982 and having suffered losses amounting to several hundred in the Kengtung-Tangyang area from CPB counter-attacks, finally retreated. Both sides now faced another challenge in the rising strength of the National Democratic Front (NDF) formed in 1976, pointedly excluding the Bamar, by the ethnic insurgencies uniting the Karen, Mon, Kachin, Shan,Pa-O, Karenni, Kayan, Wa and Lahu, particularly with the return of the KIO in 1983 after its separate peace talks with the BSPP failed. This finally led to the CPB reaching an agreement with the NDF in 1986.\n\nThe government of Myanmar heavily blamed the CPB for the tremendous upheavals in 1988, the economic collapse that resulted in the country being recognised by the UN as one of the Least Developed Countries in the world in 1987 and simmering discontent over the years compounded by yet another round of ‘demonetisation’ culminated in a great outburst of angry protests and demonstrations countrywide, which led to a national uprising on 8 August 1988. It was brutally crushed by the Tatmadaw, killing thousands of civilians and this time in the cities alleging communist infiltration.\n\nKyin Maung, then politburo member in charge of the CPB underground Task Force 4828 (named after 28 March 1948 insurrection), was forthright in admitting the presence of cadres in the cities, including Thet Khaing, son-in-law of Kyaw Zaw, but asserted that the Military Intelligence Service (MIS) had greatly exaggerated the party’s 'leading role' in the uprising. The party had begun advocating a multi-party democracy system after 1981, and it was not until 28 March 1988, the anniversary of the insurrection, that it called for a provisional government composed of various opposition parties, forces and personages. The students’ call for an interim government to end one-party rule and to hold multi-party elections never materialised, as U Nu and Aung San Suu Kyi could not agree to work together, and this failure to achieve a united opposition sealed the fate of the uprising.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27070327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27070327", "title": "David Isay", "text": "David Isay\n\nDavid Avram \"Dave\" Isay (born December 5, 1965) is an American radio producer and founder of Sound Portraits Productions. He is also the founder of StoryCorps, an ongoing oral history project. He is the recipient of numerous broadcasting honors, including six Peabody Awards and a MacArthur “Genius” Fellowship. He is the author/editor of numerous books that grew out of his public radio documentary work.\n\nSince 2003, StoryCorps has collected and archived more than 50,000 interviews with 100,000 participants. Each conversation is preserved at the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress. StoryCorps is the largest single collection of personal narratives ever gathered, and millions listen to StoryCorps’ weekly broadcasts on NPR’s Morning Edition and visit its website, www.storycorps.org.\n\nDavid Isay grew up in New Haven, Connecticut, and Manhattan, New York. He is the son of the psychiatrist Richard Isay. and book editor and author, Jane Isay. He graduated from Friends Seminary in 1983 and New York University in 1987.\n\nIsay produced a wide variety of programs for NPR, including the \"Yiddish Radio Project\" with Henry Sapoznik, salvaging recordings of Victor Packer. He also produced \"The Execution Tapes\", nineteen recordings of the 23 electrocutions carried out by the state of Georgia since 1984.\n\nIsay received a MacArthur “Genius” fellowship as a radio documentary producer before he started StoryCorps.\n\nIn 2003 Isay set up an oral history recording booth at Grand Central Station, in New York City. He recruited oral historian Studs Terkel of Chicago to cut the ceremonial ribbon for the opening of StoryCorps' first booth. Today, StoryCorps has recording booths in Atlanta, Chicago and San Francisco and in 2005, StoryCorps converted two airstream trailers into a MobileBooth traveling recording studios, launching its first cross-country tour.\nIn 2010, StoryCorps began animating a selection of their interviews with the Rauch Brothers, thus making the leap from radio broadcast to television on shows like PBS’ POV and online animated videos.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8824", "title": "Division of labour", "text": "Division of labour\n\nThe division of labour is the separation of tasks in any system so that participants may specialize. Individuals, organizations, and nations are endowed with or acquire specialized capabilities and either form combinations or trade to take advantage of the capabilities of others in addition to their own. Specialized capabilities may include equipment or natural resources in addition to skills and training and complex combinations of such assets are often important, as when multiple items of specialized equipment and skilled operators are used to produce a single product. The division of labour is the motive for trade and the source of economic interdependence.\n\nAfter the Neolithic Revolution, pastoralism and agriculture led to more reliable and abundant food supplies, which increased the population and led to specialization of labor, including new classes of artisans, warriors, and the development of elites. This specialization was furthered by the process of industrialisation, and Industrial Revolution-era factories. Accordingly many classical economists as well as some mechanical engineers such as Charles Babbage were proponents of division of labour. Also, having workers perform single or limited tasks eliminated the long training period required to train craftsmen, who were replaced with lesser paid but more productive unskilled workers. Historically, an increasing division of labour is associated with the growth of total output and trade, the rise of capitalism, and the increasing complexity of industrialised processes. The concept and implementation of division of labour has been observed in ancient Sumerian (Mesopotamian) culture, where assignment of jobs in some cities coincided with an increase in trade and economic interdependence. Division of labour generally also increases both producer and individual worker productivity.\n\nIn contrast to division of labour, division of work refers to the division of a large task, contract, or project into smaller tasks—each with a separate schedule within the overall project schedule. Division of labour, instead, refers to the allocation of tasks to individuals or organizations according to the skills and/or equipment those people or organizations possess. Often division of labour and division of work are both part of the economic activity within an industrial nation or organization.\n\nIn Plato's \"Republic\", the origin of the state lies in the natural inequality of humanity, which is embodied in the division of labour.\n\nSilvermintz notes that, \"Historians of economic thought credit Plato, primarily on account of arguments advanced in his Republic, as an early proponent of the division of labour.\" Notwithstanding this, Silvermintz argues that, \"While Plato recognizes both the economic and political benefits of the division of labour, he ultimately critiques this form of economic arrangement insofar as it hinders the individual from ordering his own soul by cultivating acquisitive motives over prudence and reason.\"\n\nXenophon, in the fourth century BC, makes a passing reference to division of labour in his 'Cyropaedia' (a.k.a. Education of Cyrus).\n\nThe 14th-century scholar Ibn Khaldun emphasised the importance of the division of labour in the production process. In his Muqaddimah, he states:\nSir William Petty was the first modern writer to take note of division of labour, showing its existence and usefulness in Dutch shipyards. Classically the workers in a shipyard would build ships as units, finishing one before starting another. But the Dutch had it organized with several teams each doing the same tasks for successive ships. People with a particular task to do must have discovered new methods that were only later observed and justified by writers on political economy.\n\nPetty also applied the principle to his survey of Ireland. His breakthrough was to divide up the work so that large parts of it could be done by people with no extensive training.\n\nBernard de Mandeville discusses the matter in the second volume of \"The Fable of the Bees\" (1714). This elaborates many matters raised by the original poem about a 'Grumbling Hive'. He says:\n\nIn his introduction to \"Art de l'Épinglier\" [The Art of the Pin-Maker] (1761), Henri-Louis Duhamel du Monceau writes about the \"division of this work\":\n\nBy \"division of this work\", Duhamel du Monceau is referring to the subdivisions of the text describing the various trades involved in the pin making activity; this can also be described as division of labour.\n\nIn the first sentence of \"An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations\" (1776), Adam Smith foresaw the essence of industrialism by determining that division of labour represents a substantial increase in productivity. Like du Monceau, his example was the making of pins. Unlike Plato, Smith famously argued that the difference between a street porter and a philosopher was as much a consequence of the division of labour as its cause. Therefore, while for Plato the level of specialization determined by the division of labour was externally determined, for Smith it was the dynamic engine of economic progress. However, in a further chapter of the same book Smith criticizes the division of labour saying it can lead to \"the almost entire corruption and degeneracy of the great body of the people. … unless government takes some pains to prevent it.\" The contradiction has led to some debate over Smith's opinion of the division of labour. Alexis de Tocqueville agreed with Smith: \"Nothing tends to materialize man, and to deprive his work of the faintest trace of mind, more than extreme division of labor.\" Adam Ferguson shared similar views to Smith, though was generally more negative.\n\nThe specialization and concentration of the workers on their single subtasks often leads to greater skill and greater productivity on their particular subtasks than would be achieved by the same number of workers each carrying out the original broad task.\n\nSmith saw the importance of matching skills with equipment – usually in the context of an organization. For example, pin makers were organized with one making the head, another the body, each using different equipment. Similarly he emphasised a large number of skills, used in cooperation and with suitable equipment, were required to build a ship.\n\nIn modern economic discussion, the term human capital would be used. Smith's insight suggests that the huge increases in productivity obtainable from technology or technological progress are possible because human and physical capital are matched, usually in an organization. See also a short discussion of Adam Smith's theory in the context of business processes.\n\nBabbage wrote a seminal work \"On the Economy of Machinery and Manufactures\" analyzing perhaps for the first time the division of labour in factories.\n\nIn the \"Groundwork of the Metaphysics of morals\" 1785, Kant notes the value of the division of labour:All crafts, trades and arts have profited from the division of labour; for when each worker sticks to one particular kind of work that needs to be handled differently from all the others, he can do it better and more easily than when one person does everything. Where work is not thus differentiated and divided, where everyone is a jack-of-all-trades, the crafts remain at an utterly primitive level.\n\nMarx argued that increasing the specialization may also lead to workers with poorer overall skills and a lack of enthusiasm for their work. He described the process as alienation: workers become more and more specialized and work becomes repetitive, eventually leading to complete alienation from the process of production. The worker then becomes \"depressed spiritually and physically to the condition of a machine\".\n\nAdditionally, Marx argued that division of labour creates less-skilled workers. As the work becomes more specialized, less training is needed for each specific job, and the workforce, overall, is less skilled than if one worker did one job entirely.\n\nAmong Marx's theoretical contributions is his sharp distinction between the economic and the social division of labor. That is, some forms of labour co-operation are purely due to \"technical necessity\", but others are a result of a \"social control\" function related to a class and status hierarchy If these two divisions are conflated, it might appear as though the existing division of labour is technically inevitable and immutable, rather than (in good part) socially constructed and influenced by power relationships. He also argues that in a communist society, the division of labour is transcended, meaning that balanced human development occurs where people fully express their nature in the variety of creative work that they do.\n\nHenry David Thoreau criticized the division of labour in \"Walden\" (published in 1854), on the basis that it removes people from a sense of connectedness with society and with the world at large, including nature. He claimed that the average man in a civilized society is less wealthy, in practice, than one in a \"savage\" society. The answer he gave was that self-sufficiency was enough to cover one's basic needs.\n\nThoreau's friend and mentor, Ralph Waldo Emerson, criticized the division of labour in \"The American Scholar\"; a widely informed, holistic citizenry is vital for the spiritual and physical health of the country.\n\nIn his seminal work, \"The Division of Labor in Society\", Émile Durkheim observes that the division of labour appears in all societies and positively correlates with societal advancement because it increases as a society progresses. Durkheim arrived at the same conclusion regarding the positive effects of the division of labour as his theoretical predecessor, Adam Smith. In \"The Wealth of the Nations\", Smith observes the division of labour results in \"a proportionable increase of the productive powers of labor.\" While they shared this belief, Durkheim believed the division of labour applied to all \"biological organisms generally\" while Smith believed this law applied \"only to human societies.\" This difference may result from the influence of Charles Darwin’s \"On the Origin of Species\" on Durkheim’s writings. For example, Durkheim observed an apparent relationship between \"the functional specialization of the parts of an organism\" and \"the extent of that organism's evolutionary development,\" which he believed \"extended the scope of the division of labour so as to make its origins contemporaneous with the origins of life itself…implying that its conditions must be found in the essential properties of all organized matter.\"\n\nSince Durkheim’s division of labour applied to all organisms, he considered it a \"natural law\" and worked to determine whether it should be embraced or resisted by first analysing its functions. Durkheim hypothesized that the division of labour fosters social solidarity, yielding \"a wholly moral phenomenon\" that ensures \"mutual relationships\" among individuals.\n\nAs social solidarity cannot be directly quantified, Durkheim indirectly studies solidarity by \"classify[ing] the different types of law to find...the different types of social solidarity which correspond to it.\" Durkheim categorizes: criminal laws and their respective punishments as promoting mechanical solidarity, a sense of unity resulting from individuals engaging in similar work who hold shared backgrounds, traditions, and values; and civil laws as promoting organic solidarity, a society in which individuals engage in different kinds of work that benefit society and other individuals. Durkheim believes that organic solidarity prevails in more advanced societies, while mechanical solidarity typifies less developed societies. He explains that, in societies with more mechanical solidarity, the diversity and division of labour is much less, so individuals have a similar worldview. Similarly, Durkheim opines that in societies with more organic solidarity, the diversity of occupations is greater, and individuals depend on each other more, resulting in greater benefits to society as a whole.\n\nDurkheim’s work enabled social science to progress more efficiently \"in … the understanding of human social behavior.\"\n\nMarx's theories, including the negative claims regarding the division of labour have been criticized by the Austrian economists such as Ludwig von Mises.\n\nThe main argument here is the economic gains accruing from the division of labour far outweigh the costs. It is argued that it is fully possible to achieve balanced human development within capitalism, and alienation is downplayed as mere romantic fiction.\n\nIn \"The Use of Knowledge in Society\", Friedrich A. Hayek states:\n\nThe issue reaches its broadest scope in the controversies about globalization, which is often interpreted as a euphemism for the expansion of world trade based on comparative advantage.\nThis would mean that countries specialize in the work they can do at the lowest relative cost measured in terms of the opportunity cost of not using resources for other work, compared to the opportunity costs experienced countries. Critics, however, allege that international specialization cannot be explained sufficiently in terms of \"the work nations do best\", rather this specialization is guided more by commercial criteria, which favour some countries over others.\n\nThe OECD recently advised (28 June 2005) that:\n\nFew studies have taken place regarding the global division of labour. Information can be drawn from ILO and national statistical offices.\n\nIn one study, Deon Filmer estimated that 2.474 billion people participated in the global non-domestic labour force in the mid-1990s. Of these,\n\nThe majority of workers in industry and services were wage and salary earners – 58 percent of the industrial workforce and 65 percent of the services workforce. But a big portion were self-employed or involved in family labour. Filmer suggests the total of employees worldwide in the 1990s was about 880 million, compared with around a billion working on own account on the land (mainly peasants), and some 480 million working on own account in industry and services. The 2007 ILO Global Employment Trends Report indicated that services have surpassed agriculture for the first time in human history: \"In 2006 the service sector’s share of global employment overtook agriculture for the first time, increasing from 39.5 per cent to 40 per cent. Agriculture decreased from 39.7 per cent to 38.7 per cent. The industry sector accounted for 21.3 per cent of total employment.\"\n\nIn the modern world, those specialists most preoccupied in their work with theorizing about the division of labour are those involved in management and organization. In view of the global extremities of the division of labour, the question is often raised about what division of labour would be most ideal, beautiful, efficient and just.\n\nTwo styles of management that are seen in modern organizations are control and commitment, control being the division of labour style of the past and commitment being the style of the future. Control management is based on the principles of job specialization and the division of labour. This is the assembly line style of job specialization where employees are given a very narrow set of tasks or one specific task. Commitment division of labour is oriented on including the employee and building a level of internal commitment towards accomplishing tasks. Tasks include more responsibility and are coordinated based on expertise rather than formal position.\n\nJob specialization is advantageous in developing employee expertise in a field and boosting organizational production. However, disadvantages of job specialization included limited employee skill, a dependence on entire department fluency, and employee discontent with repetitious tasks.\n\nIt is widely accepted that the division of labour is to a great extent inevitable, simply because no one can do all tasks at once. Labour hierarchy is a very common feature of the modern workplace structure, but of course the way these hierarchies are structured can be influenced by a variety of different factors.\n\nSize, cost, and the development of new technology are factors that have influenced job specialization structures in the modern workplace. The cost of job specialization is what limits small organizations from dividing their labour responsibilities, but as organizations increase in size there is a correlation in the rise of division of labour. Technological developments have led to a decrease in the amount of job specialization in organizations as new technology makes it easier for fewer employees to accomplish a variety of tasks and still enhance production. New technology has also been supportive in the flow of information between departments helping to reduce the feeling of department isolation.\n\nIt is often agreed that the most equitable principle in allocating people within hierarchies is that of true (or proven) competency or ability. This important concept of meritocracy could be read as an explanation or as a justification of why a division of labour is the way it is.\n\nIn general, in capitalist economies, such things are not decided consciously. Different people try different things, and that which is most effective cost-wise (produces the most and best output with the least input) will generally be adopted. Often techniques that work in one place or time do not work as well in another. This does not present a problem, as the only requirement of a capitalist system is that you turn a profit.\n\nAdam Smith famously said in \"The Wealth of Nations\" that the division of labour is limited by the extent of the market. This is because it is by exchange that each person can be specialized in their work and yet still have access to a wide range of goods and services. Hence, reductions in barriers to exchange lead to increases in the division of labour and so help to drive economic growth. Limitations to the division of labour have also been related to coordination and transportation costs.\n\nThere can be motivational advantages to a reduced division of labour (which has been termed ‘job enlargement’ and 'job enrichment'). Jobs that are too specialized in a narrow range of tasks are said to result in demotivation due to boredom and alienation. Hence, a Taylorist approach to work design contributed to worsened industrial relations.\n\nThere are also limitations to the division of labour (and the division of work) that result from work-flow variations and uncertainties. These help to explain issues in modern work organization, such as task consolidations in business process reengineering and the use of multi-skilled work teams. For instance, one stage of a production process may temporarily work at a slower pace, forcing other stages to slow down. One answer to this is to make some portion of resources mobile between stages, so that those resources must be capable of undertaking a wider range of tasks. Another is to consolidate tasks so that they are undertaken one after another by the same workers and other resources. Stocks between stages can also help to reduce the problem to some extent but are costly and can hamper quality control. Note also that modern flexible manufacturing systems require both flexible machines and flexible workers.\n\nIn project-based work, the coordination of resources is a difficult issue for the project manager as project schedules and resulting resource bookings are based on estimates of task durations and so are subject to subsequent revisions. Again, consolidating tasks so that they are undertaken consecutively by the same resources and having resources available that can be called on at short-notice from other tasks can help to reduce such problems, though at the cost of reduced specialisation.\n\nThere are also advantages in a reduced division of labour where knowledge would otherwise have to be transferred between stages. For example, having a single person deal with a customer query means that only that one person has to be familiarised with the customer’s details. It is also likely to result in the query being handled faster due to the elimination of delays in passing the query between different people.\n\nThe clearest exposition of the principles of sexual division of labour across the full range of human societies can be summarized by a large number of logically complementary implicational constraints of the following form: if women of childbearing ages in a given community tend to do X (e.g., preparing soil for planting) they will also do Y (e.g., the planting) while for men the logical reversal in this example would be that if men plant they will prepare the soil. \"Entailment Theory and Method: A Cross-Cultural Analysis of the Sexual Division of Labor\" by White, Brudner and Burton (1977, public domain), using statistical entailment analysis, shows that tasks more frequently chosen by women in these order relations are those more convenient in relation to childrearing. This type of finding has been replicated in a variety of studies, including modern industrial economies. These entailments do not restrict how much work for any given task could be done by men (e.g., in cooking) or by women (e.g., in clearing forests) but are only least-effort or role-consistent tendencies. To the extent that women clear forests for agriculture, for example, they tend to do the entire agricultural sequence of tasks on those clearings. In theory, these types of constraints could be removed by provisions of child care, but ethnographic examples are lacking.\n\nJob satisfaction has been shown to improve as an employee is given the task of a specific job. Students who have received PhDs in a chosen field later report increased satisfaction compared to their previous jobs. This can be attributed to their high levels of specialization. The higher the training needed for the specialized job position, the higher is the level of job satisfaction as well, although many highly specialized jobs can be monotonous and produce high rates of burn out periodically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20750176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20750176", "title": "Edward Arthur Thompson", "text": "Edward Arthur Thompson\n\nEdward Arthur Thompson (22 May 1914 – 1 January 1994) was an Irish-born British classicist, medievalist and professor at the University of Nottingham from 1948 to 1979. He wrote from a Marxist perspective, and argued that the Visigoths were settled in Aquitaine to counter the internal threat of the peasant bagaudae.\n\nThompson was born on 22 May 1914 in the town of Waterford, Ireland to a Presbyterian family of both Irish and Scottish descent. \n\nAlthough taught to read only at the age of eight, Thompson proceeded to attend and finish at The High School, Dublin, with which he maintained sufficient links to be requested by its then-headmaster, Dr. John Bennett, to send a copy of \"A History of Attila and the Huns\" when Thompson published the book in 1948.\n\nAlthough his father worked for the administration of the National Health Insurance, Edward Thompson would be the first of his family to enter university: he graduated with First Class Honours in Classics from Trinity College, Dublin in 1936, later attributing his selection of the classics as a discipline to the arbitrary choice of his headmaster at The High School.\n\nThompson's first appointment in academia, as Lecturer in Classics, was a two-year stint at Trinity College, Dublin although initially appointed for one year, Thompson's contract was renewed, and he stayed on (though at a reduced salary) until 1941. Already prepared to enter the Second World War with an enlistment in the British Army, Thompson finally secured an appointment at the University of Swansea, having learned of an opening for somebody who could teach Greek from a friend, Swansea classicist Ben Farrington.\n\nFrom Swansea, Thompson transferred to King's College, London, teaching as a classics lecturer from 1945 to 1948. It was during this time that Thompson's first book, \"Ammianus Marcellinus\", was published in Britain. He subsequently moved once morethis time to direct the classics department at the University of Nottingham, where Thompson worked from 1948-79. Until his retirement in 1979, Thompson served as the first Chairman of the Editorial Board of the scholarly journal \"Nottingham Medieval Studies\", founded by Lewis Thorpe in 1957.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1964the first University of Nottingham academic to be so honoured. \n\nAlthough Thompson left the staunchly pro-Soviet Communist Party of Great Britain in 1956, the year of the Soviet Union's intervention in Hungary, Thompson's academic work continued to demonstrate a Marxist-oriented outlook on history. No longer active in political life, he continued his enthusiastic interest for politics. His interest in the class structure of societies, and in their material basis, continued to direct the structure of his studies. Thompson died, aged 79, in Nottingham.\n\n\"In reverse chronological order:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1643294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643294", "title": "Geert Mak", "text": "Geert Mak\n\nGeert Ludzer Mak (born 4 December 1946 in Vlaardingen) is a Dutch journalist and a non-fiction writer in the field of history. His ten books about Amsterdam, the Netherlands and Europe have earned him great popularity. His best-known work, \"In Europe\", a combination of a travelogue through the continent of Europe and a history of the 20th century, has appeared in over a dozen languages. \n\nIn 1968, he was arrested for publishing a pamphlet in a student paper with the heading \"Johnson oorlogsmisdadiger volgens de normen van Tokio en Neurenberg.\" (\"Johnson war criminal according to the norms of Tokyo and Nuremberg.\"), referring to the Vietnam War that reached its peak during Johnson's presidency. Mak was accused of \"insulting a friendly head of state\", likely under American pressure due to the Cold War. He faced harsh sentences, including three weeks in jail, but ended up only having to pay 200 guilders. \n\nMak is married to Mietsie Ruiters. He has two step-children and five grandchildren.\n\n\"In Europe\" was the best-selling book by a Dutch author in the Netherlands in 2004, selling over 400,000 copies. The British reviews were generally enthusiastic, although for the professional historian or political scientist the book has little to offer: “\"In Europe\" hardly breaks new ground historically” writes Martin Woollacott in an otherwise positive review in \"The Guardian\". \n\nMak himself sees his work as journalism. In an interview with a Dutch journalism trade-journal he says: “my approach is journalistic. My books are filled with newspaper tricks”. Historians are generally cautious when it comes to judging Mak’s work. Hermann von der Dunk, emeritus professor of history at Utrecht University says about Mak: “it is well written, and historically correct, but it is not what I would call academic history. There is no analysis of historical development”.\n\nA 35-part VPRO television series based on \"In Europe\" prompted some historians to point to errors and comment that the makers were ill-informed about current debates in the field of history.\n"}
{"id": "3929012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3929012", "title": "Jordan of Giano", "text": "Jordan of Giano\n\nJordan of Giano (; 1195 – after 1262) was an Italian Minorite from Giano in the Valley of Spoleto. \n\nJordanus joined the Franciscans around 1220. A few years later he was sent to Germany with a group under Caesarius of Speyer, the first Franciscan provincial of Germany. He was ordained in 1223, and became the guardian at Mainz and the custos of the Franciscan houses in Thuringia in 1225. In 1230 and again in 1238, he returned to Italy on business relating to his order. \n\nHe attended a chapter of German Franciscans held at Halberstadt in 1262. There he dictated the early memoirs of the Franciscans in Germany (\"De primitivorum Fratrum in Theutoniam missorum et conversatione et vita\") to a Brother Baldwin of Brandenburg. The memoirs begin in the year 1207 and are one of the chief sources for Franciscan history in Germany. The only extant manuscript breaks off abruptly at the year 1238.\n"}
{"id": "50635908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50635908", "title": "Julia Baird (journalist)", "text": "Julia Baird (journalist)\n\nJulia Woodlands Baird is an Australian political journalist, television commentator and writer from Sydney.\n\nBaird was born in Sydney, the middle child of politician Bruce Baird and his wife Judith (née Woodlands). Her older brother, Michael, later became the Premier of New South Wales. The family lived in Rye, New York, in the 1970s while her father was Australian Trade Commissioner. After they returned to Australia in 1980, Baird attended Ravenswood School for Girls.\n\nBaird was awarded a PhD in history from the University of Sydney in 2001. Her thesis was on women in politics. In 2005, she was a fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University researching the globalisation of American opinion in the lead up to the Iraq war. Baird was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree on 16 March 2018 by the University of Divinity.\n\nBaird started her journalistic career with \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" in 1998. By 2000, she was editor of the opinion pages. She was a campaigner for women in the Sydney diocese of the Anglican church. She also worked as a religious commentator for Triple J and as a freelancer for ABC Radio. Her first book, \"Media Tarts: How the Australian Press Frames Female Politicians\" was published in 2004.\n\nIn 2006, Baird became deputy editor at \"Newsweek\" in New York City, working there until it ceased print publication in 2012. She also wrote for \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\". She has written about gender and politics, covering for example misogyny in Australian politics and transgender soldiers in the American military. More recently she has written about Donald Trump's political strategy. Baird has also written about religious topics.\n\nIn 2010, Baird signed a contract with Random House to write a biography of Queen Victoria. She returned to Australia and hosts \"The Drum\", a current affairs television show.\n\nBaird has two children. In 2015, she revealed in a \"New York Times\" column that she was recovering from surgery for cancer. In a press conference on 19 January 2017, her brother revealed that Baird's cancer has recurred.\n\n"}
{"id": "43469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43469", "title": "Karel Čapek", "text": "Karel Čapek\n\nKarel Čapek (; ; 9 January 1890 – 25 December 1938), a Czech writer of the early 20th century, filled multiple roles during his career, including those of playwright, dramatist, essayist, publisher, literary reviewer, photographer, and art critic. He has become best known for his science fiction, including his 1936 novel \"War with the Newts\" and 1920 play \"R.U.R.\" (\"Rossum's Universal Robots\"), which introduced the word \"robot\". He also wrote many politically charged works dealing with the social turmoil of his time. Influenced by American pragmatic liberalism, he campaigned in favor of free expression and strongly opposed the rise of both fascism and communism in Europe.\n\nThough nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature seven times, Čapek never won it. However, several awards commemorate his name, such as the Karel Čapek Prize, awarded every other year by the Czech PEN Club for literary work that contributes to reinforcing or maintaining democratic and humanist values in society. He also played a key role in establishing the Czechoslovak PEN Club as a part of International PEN.\n\nČapek died on the brink of World War II as the result of a lifelong medical condition,\nbut his legacy as a literary figure became well established after the war.\n\nKarel Čapek was born in 1890 in the Bohemian mountain village of Malé Svatoňovice. However, six months after his birth, the Čapek family moved to their own house in Úpice. His father, Antonín Čapek, worked as a doctor at the local textile factory. Antonín was a very energetic person; apart from his work as a doctor, he also co-funded the local museum and was a member of the town council. Despite opposing his father's materialist and positivist views, Karel Čapek loved and admired his father, later calling him “a good example... of the generation of national awakeners.” Karel's mother, Božena Čapková, was a homemaker. Unlike her husband she did not like life in the country and she suffered from long-term depressions. Despite that, she assiduously collected and recorded local folklore, such as legends, songs or stories. Karel was the youngest of three siblings. He would maintain an especially close relationship with his brother Josef, a highly successful painter, living and working with him throughout his adult life. His sister, Helena, was a talented pianist who later become a writer and published several memoirs about Karel and Josef.\n\nAfter finishing elementary school in Úpice, he moved with his grandmother to Hradec Králové, where he attended high school. Two years later, he was expelled for taking part in an illegal students' club. Čapek later described the club as a “very non-murderous anarchist society.” After this incident he moved to Brno with his sister and attempted to finish high school there, but two years later he moved again, to Prague, where he finished high school at the Academic Grammar School in 1909. During his teenage years Čapek became enamored with the visual arts, especially Cubism, which influenced his later writing. After graduating from high school, he studied philosophy and aesthetics in Prague at Charles University, but he also spent some time at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin and at the Sorbonne in Paris. While he was still a university student, he wrote some works on contemporary art and literature. He graduated with a doctorate of philosophy in 1915.\n\nExempted from military service due to the spinal problems that would haunt him his whole life, Čapek observed World War I from Prague. His political views were strongly affected by the war, and as a budding journalist he began to write on topics like nationalism, totalitarianism and consumerism. Through social circles, the young author developed close relationships with many of the political leaders of the nascent Czechoslovak state, including Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, Czechoslovak patriot and the first President of Czechoslovakia, and his son Jan, who would later become foreign secretary. T. G. Masaryk was a regular guest at Čapek's \"Friday Men\" garden parties for leading Czech intellectuals. Čapek was also a member of Masaryk's \"Hrad\" political network. Their frequent conversations on various topics later served as the basis for Čapek's \"Talks with T. G. Masaryk\".\n\nČapek began his writing career as a journalist. With his brother Josef, he worked as an editor for the Czech paper \"Národní listy\" \"(The National Newspaper)\" from October 1917 to April 1921. Upon leaving, he and Josef joined the staff of \"Lidové noviny\" \"(The People's Paper)\" in April 1921.\n\nČapek's early attempts at fiction were short stories and plays for the most part written with his brother Josef. Čapek's first international success was \"R.U.R.\", a dystopian work about a bad day at a factory populated with sentient androids. The play was translated into English in 1922, and was being performed in the UK and America by 1923. Throughout the 1920s, Čapek worked in many writing genres, producing both fiction and non-fiction, but worked primarily as a journalist. In the 1930s, Čapek's work focused on the threat of brutal national socialist and fascist dictatorships; by the mid-1930s, Čapek had become \"an outspoken anti-fascist\". He also became a member of International PEN and established, and was the first president of, the Czechoslovak PEN Club.\n\nIn 1935 Karel Čapek married actress Olga Scheinpflugová, after a long acquaintance. In 1938 it became clear that the Western allies, namely France and the United Kingdom, would fail to fulfil the pre-war agreements, and they refused to defend Czechoslovakia against Nazi Germany. Although offered the chance to go to exile in England, Čapek refused to leave his country – even though the Nazi Gestapo had named him \"public enemy number two\". While repairing flood damage to his family's summer house in Stará Huť, he contracted a common cold. As he had suffered all his life from spondyloarthritis and was also a heavy smoker, Karel Čapek died of pneumonia, on 25 December 1938.\n\nSurprisingly, the Gestapo was not aware of his death. Several months later, just after the German invasion of Czechoslovakia, Nazi agents came to the Čapek family house in Prague to arrest him. Upon discovering that he had already been dead for some time, they arrested and interrogated his wife Olga. His brother Josef was arrested in September and eventually died in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in April 1945. Karel Čapek and his wife are buried at the Vyšehrad cemetery in Prague. The inscription on the tombstone reads: \"Here would have been buried Josef Čapek, painter and poet. Grave far away.\"\n\nKarel Čapek wrote with intelligence and humor on a wide variety of subjects. His works are known for their interesting and precise description of reality. Čapek is renowned for his excellent work with the Czech language. He is known as a science fiction author, who wrote before science fiction became widely recognized as a separate genre. Many of his works also discuss ethical aspects of industrial inventions and processes already anticipated in the first half of the 20th century. These include mass production, nuclear weapons and intelligent artificial beings such as robots or androids. His most productive years were during The First Republic of Czechoslovakia (1918–1938).\n\nČapek also expressed fear of social disasters, dictatorship, violence, human stupidity, the unlimited power of corporations, and greed. Čapek tried to find hope, and the way out.\n\nFrom the 1930s onward, Čapek's work became increasingly anti-fascist, anti-militarist, and critical of what he saw as \"irrationalism\".\n\nIvan Klíma, in his biography of Čapek, notes his influence on modern Czech literature, as well as on the development of Czech as a written language. Čapek, along with contemporaries like Jaroslav Hašek, spawned part of the early 20th-century revival in written Czech thanks to their decision to use the vernacular. Klíma writes, \"It is thanks to Čapek that the written Czech language grew closer to the language people actually spoke\". Čapek was also a translator, and his translations of French poetry into the language inspired a new generation of Czech poets.\n\nHis other books and plays include detective stories, novels, fairy tales and theatre plays, and even a book on gardening. His most important works attempt to resolve problems of epistemology, to answer the question: \"What is knowledge?\" Examples include \"Tales from Two Pockets\", and the first book of the trilogy of novels \"Hordubal,\" \"Meteor,\" and \"An Ordinary Life.\" He also co-wrote (with his brother Josef) the libretto for Zdeněk Folprecht's opera \"Lásky hra osudná\" in 1922.\n\nAfter World War II, Čapek's work was only reluctantly accepted by the communist government of Czechoslovakia, because during his life he had refused to accept communism as a viable alternative. He was the first in a series of influential non-Marxist intellectuals who wrote a newspaper essay in a series called \"Why I am not a Communist\".\n\nIn 2009 (70 years after his death), a book was published containing extensive correspondence by Karel Čapek, in which the writer discusses the subjects of pacifism and his conscientious objection to military service with lawyer Jindřich Groag from Brno. Until then, only a portion of these letters were known.\n\nArthur Miller wrote in 1990: I read Karel Čapek for the first time when I was a college student long\nago in the Thirties. There was no writer like him...prophetic assurance mixed with surrealistic humour and hard-edged social satire: a unique combination...he is a joy to read.\n\nKarel Čapek introduced and made popular the frequently used international word \"robot\", which first appeared in his play \"R.U.R.\" in 1920. While it is frequently thought that he was the originator of the word, he wrote a short letter in reference to an article in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" etymology in which he named his brother, painter and writer Josef Čapek, as its actual inventor. In an article in the Czech journal \"Lidové noviny\" in 1933, he also explained that he had originally wanted to call the creatures \"laboři\" (from Latin \"labor\", work). However, he did not like the word, seeing it as too artificial, and sought advice from his brother Josef, who suggested \"roboti\" (\"robots\" in English).\n\nThe word \"robot\" comes from the word \"robota\". The word robota means literally \"corvée\", \"serf labor\", and figuratively \"drudgery\" or \"hard work\" in Czech. It also means \"work\", \"labor\" in Slovak, archaic Czech, and many other Slavic languages (e.g., Bulgarian, Russian, Serbian, Polish, Macedonian, Ukrainian, etc.). It derives from the reconstructed Proto-Slavic word *robota, meaning \"(slave) work.\" (cf. the German word for work, \"Arbeit\".)\n\nThe asteroid 1931 Čapek, discovered by Luboš Kohoutek was named after him.\n\nČapek received the Order of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, in memoriam, in 1991.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3134435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3134435", "title": "Kommos (theatre)", "text": "Kommos (theatre)\n\nA kommos (from Greek κομμός, \"kommós\", literally \"striking\", especially \"beating of the head and breast in mourning\") is a lyrical song of lamentation in an Athenian tragedy that the chorus and a dramatic character sing together. A kommos occurs \"when the tension of the play rises to a climax of grief or horror or joy\". Examples include the final section (lines 908-1077) of Aeschylus' \"The Persians\" (472 BCE) in which Xerxes laments the defeat of his Persian army, the final appearance of Antigone in Sophocles' \"Antigone\" (c.442 BCE), the interaction between the chorus and Oedipus when he returns having blinded himself in Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\" (c.429 BCE), and the exchange between Orestes, Electra and the chorus immediately after Clytemnestra's murder in Euripides' \"Electra\" (c.410 BCE).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20345861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20345861", "title": "List of memorials to the Great Famine", "text": "List of memorials to the Great Famine\n\nThe Great Famine of Ireland is memorialized in many locations throughout Ireland, especially in those regions that suffered the greatest losses, and also in cities overseas with large populations descended from Irish immigrants. To date more than 100 memorials to the Irish Famine have been constructed worldwide.\n\nCelia Griffin Memorial Park, Claddagh Galway.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2013 Hobsons Bay City Council in consultation with Irish Famine Orphan Heritage & Commemoration Day's Debra Vaughan, erected an Irish Famine Orphans Bay Trail Marker, part of a 23 km trail, to tell the local story of the six Earl Grey Scheme Irish Famine Orphan ships which landed approx 1700 teenagers in Williamstown, via Lady Kennaway, Pemberton, New Liverpool, Diadem, Derwent & Eliza Caroline. Since 1998, over 170 people meet annually on the second-last Sunday of November to share a sacred yet secular ceremony to mark the Great Famine with the Australian Irish community & descendants. In Gaelic on the Famine Rock plaque: God never meant this to happen, that people should wander hungry in the cold. \n\n"}
{"id": "4752970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4752970", "title": "Loughgall ambush", "text": "Loughgall ambush\n\nThe Loughgall Ambush took place on 8 May 1987 at the village of Loughgall, County Armagh, Northern Ireland. An eight-man unit of the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) launched an attack on the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) station in the village. Having driven a stolen digger with a bomb placed in its bucket through the perimeter fence, they attacked the building with automatic rifles, the bomb exploding, badly damaging the police station. Soldiers from the British Army's Special Air Service (SAS), who had been lying in wait at the scene, then returned fire both from within the station and from concealed positions around it in a pre-planned and co-ordinated ambush, killing all of the IRA attackers, two of whom were subsequently found in the police investigation of the incident to have been unarmed when they were killed. \n\nAn innocent civilian was also killed by the SAS engaging unit after unwittingly driving into the midst of the melee, and being mistakenly identified by it as part of the IRA's attacking force.\n\nThe joint British Army/Police operation was codenamed Operation Judy. It was the IRA's biggest loss of life in a single incident during The Troubles. In 2015, it was announced that a fresh inquest was to be held.\n\nThe IRA's East Tyrone Brigade was active mainly in eastern County Tyrone and neighbouring parts of County Armagh. By the mid-1980s it had become one of the IRA's most aggressive formations. Members of the unit, such as Jim Lynagh and Pádraig McKearney, advocated a strategy of destroying bases and preventing them being rebuilt or repaired in an attempt to \"deny ground\" to British forces. In 1985, Patrick Joseph Kelly became its commander and began implementing the strategy. In 1985 and 1986, it carried out two attacks on Royal Ulster Constabulary stations. The first was an attack on the RUC barracks in Ballygawley on 7 December 1985, in which two police officers were shot dead. The second was an attack on an RUC station at The Birches on 11 August 1986. In both attacks, the police stations were raked with machine-gun fire and then severely damaged with homemade bombs. In the attack at The Birches, they had breached the base's perimeter fence with a digger that had a bomb in its bucket. It was planned to use the same tactic in an attack on the lightly-manned Loughgall Royal Ulster Constabulary station.\n\nThe British security forces however had received detailed intelligence information about the IRA's plans. It is believed that this was obtained by RUC Special Branch and the British Army's Special Reconnaissance Unit (SRU). It has been alleged that the security forces had a double agent inside the IRA unit, and that he was killed by the SAS in the ambush. Other sources claim that the security forces had instead learned of the ambush through other surveillance methods. In his book, \"Terrorism: Inside A World Phenomenon\", Barry Davies states that the date and time of the attack was eventually confirmed by a telephone tap. According to historian and former Professor of Politics at Queen's University Belfast Richard English, information of the attack had not come from within the unit. Though Tony Gormely was known as a well-paid Special Branch informant.\n\nThree local RUC officers worked at the station; which was only open part-time in twice daily intervals of two hours (09:00 AM to 11:00 AM, and 05:00 PM to 07:00 PM). One of the officers was to carry on the normal running of the station assisted by the other two. Whilst six SAS soldiers in plain clothes, including the commander, were positioned inside. Another eighteen SAS soldiers in uniform were hidden in wooded areas in five locations around the station.\n\nThe IRA's attack involved two teams. One team would drive a digger with a bomb in its bucket through the base's perimeter fence and light the fuse. At the same time, another team would arrive in a van and open fire on the base, with the aim of killing the three police officers as they came off duty. Both teams would then leave the area in the van. To avoid security checkpoints, the bomb was ferried by boat across Lough Neagh, from Ardboe to Maghery. The van and digger that would be used were hijacked in the hours leading up to the attack. The van, a blue Toyota HiAce, was stolen by masked men from a business in Dungannon. At about the same time, the unit's commander James Lynagh was spotted in the town, suggesting the van might be used in the attack. The digger (a backhoe loader) was taken from a farm at Lislasly Road, about two miles west of Loughgall. Two IRA members stayed at the farm to stop the owners raising the alarm. Declan Arthurs drove the digger, while two others drove ahead of him in a scout car. The rest of the unit travelled in the van from another location, presumably also with a scout car. When a covert observation post monitoring the digger reported that it was being moved, the SAS took up its positions.\n\nThe IRA unit arrived in Loughgall from the north-east shortly after 7. when the station was scheduled to close for the night. All were armed, masked with balaclavas, and wearing boilersuits, surgical gloves and socks over their footwear with the intent of limiting forensic evidence of their presence at the scene. Some of the attackers were also wearing bullet-proof vests. The digger drove past the police station, turned around and drove back again with the Toyota van carrying the main IRA assault party doing the same, in anticipation of the lightly-manned station's staff coming out of the building around that time to go home, thereby presenting themselves as more vulnerable targets. Not seeing any activity in the station in their two slow passes of it, members of the IRA unit felt that something was amiss, and debated whether to continue, but decided to go ahead with the attack. Tony Gormley and Gerard O'Callaghan got out of the van and joined Declan Arthurs on the digger, according to journalist Peter Taylor, \"literally riding shotgun\", with weapons in one hand and a lighter in the other. At about 7:15 Arthurs drove the digger towards the station. In the front bucket was 200–400 lb of semtex inside an oil drum, partially hidden by rubble and wired to two 40-second fuses. The other five members of the unit followed in the van with Eugene Kelly driving, unit commander Patrick Kelly in the passenger seat whilst in the rear were Lynagh, Pádraig McKearney, and Seamus Donnelly. The digger crashed through the light security fence and the fuses were lit. The van stopped a short distance ahead and — according to the British security forces — three of the team jumped out and opened fire at the police station with automatic weapons. Author Raymond Murray disputes this. According to Taylor, and co-corroborated by the ECHR report, Patrick Kelly jumped from the passenger seat and, followed by others, immediately opened fire on the building, either to encourage the rest to resolve the dispute about going ahead with the attack, or possibly because this was the way previous attacks had begun. At the same time, the bomb detonated, the blast destroying the digger and badly damaging the building, injuring three members of the security forces within.\n\nWithin seconds the SAS opened fire on the IRA attackers from the station and from hidden positions outside with M16 and H&K G3 rifles and two L7A2 general-purpose machine guns. 600 spent British cartridge cases from the scene were recovered, with approximately 125 bullet holes in the bodywork of the van. 78 spent cartridge cases were recovered that were fired from IRA weapons. All eight IRA members were killed in the hail of gunfire; all had multiple wounds to their bodies, including their heads. Declan Arthurs was shot in a lane-way opposite Loughgall Football Club premises, without a firearm in the direct vicinity, holding a cigarette lighter closed in his right hand. It has been alleged by Tim Pat Coogan that three of the wounded IRA members were shot dead as they lay on the ground after surrendering. Three other IRA members in the scout cars escaped from the scene, managing to pass through British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary check-points set up in the vicinity immediately after the ambush had been sprung.\n\nTwo innocent civilians travelling in a car which happened to drive into the scene of the ambush whilst it was underway were also opened fire upon by the British forces. The two brothers, Anthony and Oliver Hughes, were driving home in a white Citroen GS Special car after repairing a lorry with Oliver wearing overalls similar in appearance to those being worn by the IRA unit. About 130 yards from the police station, British soldiers opened fire on their car from behind, killing Anthony (driving) and badly wounding Oliver. The Citroen had approximately 34 bullet holes. The villagers had not been told of the operation and no attempt had been made to evacuate anyone or to seal off the ambush zone, as this might have alerted the IRA to the ambush's presence. Anthony's widow was later compensated by the British Government for the death of her husband.\n\nThe security forces recovered eight IRA firearms from the scene: three H&K G3 rifles, one FN FAL rifle, two FN FNC rifles, a Franchi SPAS-12T shotgun and a Ruger Security-Six revolver. The Royal Ulster Constabulary subsequently linked the weapons to seven known murders and twelve attempted murders in the Mid-Ulster region. The Ruger had been stolen from Reserve RUC officer William Clement, killed two years earlier in the attack on Ballygawley police station by the IRA. It was found that another of the guns had been used in the murder of Harold Henry, a builder who was employed by the British Army and Royal Ulster Constabulary in facilities construction in Northern Ireland.\nThe East Tyrone Brigade continued to be active until the last Provisional IRA ceasefire ten years later. SAS operations against the IRA also continued. The IRA set out to find the informer it believed to be among them, although it has been suggested that the informer, if there ever was one, had been killed in the ambush. The Loughgall police station was attacked again on 5 September 1990, when the blast from a van bomb badly damaged it, wounding in the process seven constables.\n\nThe IRA unit destroyed in the ambush became known as the \"Loughgall Martyrs\" among IRA supporters. The men's relatives considered their deaths to be part of a deliberate shoot-to-kill policy by the security forces in the province. Thousands of people attended their funerals, the biggest republican funerals in Northern Ireland since those of the IRA hunger strikers of 1981. Gerry Adams, in his graveside oration, gave a speech stating the British Government understood that it could buy off the government of the Republic of Ireland, which he described as the \"shoneen clan\" (pro-British), but added \"it does not understand the Jim Lynaghs, the Pádraig McKearneys or the Séamus McElwaines. It thinks it can defeat them. It never will.\"\n\nShortly after the ambush the Provisional IRA released a statement saying: \"volunteers who shot their way out of the ambush and escaped saw other volunteers being shot on the ground after being captured\".\n\nIn 2001 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that ten IRA men, including the eight killed at Loughgall, had their human rights violated by the failure of the British Government to conduct a proper investigation into their deaths. The court did not make any finding that these deaths amounted to unlawful killing. In December 2011, Northern Ireland's Historical Enquiries Team found that not only did the IRA team fire first but that they could not have been safely arrested. They concluded that the British Army was justified in opening fire.\n\nLoughgall police station was re-built and was in use until its administrative closure in August 2009. In April 2011 it was sold for private development.\n\n\"Loughgall Ambush\" is the name of a republican ballad specifically about the attack, recorded by Charlie and the Bhoys amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16738793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16738793", "title": "Maxine Conder", "text": "Maxine Conder\n\nRear Admiral Maxine Conder was Director of the United States Navy Nurse Corps from 1975 to 1979.\n\nBorn in 1926, Maxine Conder is a native of the state of Utah. She earned her nursing diploma in 1947 from St. Marks Hospital School of Nursing in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\n\nIn 1962, Conder earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Utah. In 1966, she earned a master's degree in nursing from the University of Washington.\n\nConder served aboard the hospital ship off Korea and in Naval Hospital, Guam, as well as in various stateside assignments. \n\nAfter several assignments as chief nurse, she was promoted to the rank of captain in 1970. \n\nAs Director of the Navy Nurse Corps, she became the second woman promoted to the rank of rear admiral.\n\nRear Admiral Conder was awarded the Legion of Merit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56457991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56457991", "title": "Muhammad Siyar", "text": "Muhammad Siyar\n\nMirza Muhammad Siyar (c. 1770 – c. 1840) also known as Baba Siyar was a Chitrali poet and court chronicler who lived during the 18th and 19th century. He is considered one of the few great begotten poets of the Hindu Kush region. He composed the famous \"Shahnamah-i-Chitral.\"\n"}
{"id": "23136178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23136178", "title": "Mustafa Naima", "text": "Mustafa Naima\n\nMustafa Naima (; \"Muṣṭafā Na'īmā\"; 1655 – 1716) was an Ottoman bureaucrat and historian who wrote the chronicle known as the \"Tārīḫ-i Na'īmā\" (\"Naima's History\"). He is often considered to be the first official historian of the Ottoman Empire, although this formal office was probably not created until the time of his successor, Rashid.\n\nMustafā Na'īm was born the son of a Janissary in Aleppo, Ottoman Syria. He joined the palace guard in Constantinople and was educated as a secretary there. He rose in the financial administration of the empire until the palace intrigues caused him to be sent to a provincial administrative post in 1715.\n\nAs a historian Naima mentions the arrival of Mughal ambassadors: Qaim Beg, Sayyid Ataullah and Hajji Ahmad Saeed, sent by the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. The ambassadors lodged in the Seraglio of Saiwush Pasha.\n\nHe died in Patras.\n\nNa'īmā's main work is the \"Ravżatu'l-Ḥüseyn fī ḫulāṣati aḫbāri'l-ḫāfiḳeyn\" (روضة الحسين فى خلاصة أخبار الخافقين in Ottoman; literally: \"The Garden of Hüseyin in the Summary of the Chronicles of East and West\"). This work was finished in 1704 and dedicated to the vizier Amcazade Hüseyin Paşa. The book covers the events of the years from 1591 to 1660.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31349118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31349118", "title": "Online interview", "text": "Online interview\n\nAn online interview is an online research method conducted using computer-mediated communication (CMC), such as instant messaging, email, or video. Online interviews require different ethical considerations, sampling and rapport than practices found in traditional face-to-face (F2F) interviews. Online interviews are separated into synchronous online interviews, for example via online chat which happen in 'real time' online and asynchronous online interviews, for example via email conducted in non-real time. Some authors discuss online interviews in relation to online focus groups whereas others look at online interviews as separate research methods. This article will only discuss online interviews.\n\nOnline interviews, like offline interviews, typically ask respondents to explain what they think or how they feel about an aspect of their social world. Interviews are especially useful for understanding the meanings participants assign to their activities; their perspectives, motives, and experiences. Interviews are also useful for eliciting the language used by group members, gathering information about processes that cannot be observed, or inquiring about the past. Thus the objectives researchers have do not differ significantly, however the methods and research design can be effected by the online component of the research which this article will take issue with.\n\nIn online interviews, data is primarily generated through conversations between a researcher and \"respondent\". Researchers often seek out a deliberate (or \"non-random\") selection of respondents, recruiting individuals who can provide insight on a particular phenomenon, situation, or practice. Online Interviews can utilize a selection of formats and employ varying means of computer-mediated communication (CMC).\n\nThe interview is synchronous if it is conducted in real time. Skype interviews allow participants and researchers to converse in real time. Video chat is the closest a researcher will get towards resembling a face-to-face interview. This is because it allows for facial expressions and other visual cues that are absent in textually based forms such as chatrooms. Another way of conducting synchronous interviews online is using WebRTC. When WebRTC is used web browser (Firefox, Chrome or IE) acts as a client and both the parties can connect over a real-time video-chat.\n\nAn asynchronous online interview takes place when the researcher and the participant are not online at the same time. Typically these interviews will use email but other technologies might also be employed. This can be an advantage for research conducted across time zones or with busy participants, allowing them to answer questions at their convenience. Kitvits (2005 cited in Dowling 2012) point out that asynchonous interviews are very useful for reflective process which helps to assure rigor.\n\nA concern related to the asynchronous method is the possibility of interviews gradually drying up over an extended period. While the possibility of long term \"longitudinal\" research is valuable, it is also risky. Completion requires high levels of participant motivation, since they have not dedicated a specific block of time. Additionally, asynchronous online interviews may feel less conversational and make it more difficult to ask follow-up questions. Rezabek (2000) describes this as a \"lack of timeliness\".\n\nStructured interviews are guided by questions which are prepared prior to the interview.\n\nSemi-structured interviews balance the pre-planned questions of a structured approach with the spontaneity and flexibility of the unstructured interview.\n\nUnstructured interviews are conversations where the researcher collects data on a broad topic, however, does have any specific questions prepared, allowing informants to guide the conversation by offering stories and additional insights. Unstructured interviews may be especially useful when researchers are trying to understand an unfamiliar setting, a phenomenon or people's motives. Dowling (2012) used unstructured interviews in an asynchronous format via email.\n\nThere are many reasons online interviews can be an appropriate and valuable methodological tool. For example, the use of online interviews as opposed to onsite interviews provides the researcher with opportunities to:\nIn asynchronous interviews the extended time frame can also be a benefit allowing researchers more time to think of evocative or precise follow-up questions. Researchers can reread the chat history and use previous responses to inform the subsequent questions.\n\nThere are, however, possible drawbacks to online interviews. Scholars such as Mann and Stewart (2005) have questioned how effective they are in comparison to face-to-face interviews. Online interviews may make it difficult to:\nThough the question-and-answer format of the interview is similar to face-to-face interviews, during text-based interviews participants and researchers are not visible to one another. This can make it difficult to assess how questions and responses are being interpreted on either side due to a lack of visual cues.\n\nInternet researcher Annette Markham (1998) observes that text-based interviewing can take much longer than face-to-face, phone or Skype interviews because typing takes longer than talking. Textual methods require users to verbalize conventional aspects of polite conversation, such as nodding or smiling, which requires added effort and time.\n\nThere are many ethical considerations that arise solely because the interview is conducted online. As suggested by the Association of Internet Researchers (AoIR), these will vary depending on community norms, local and national codes and guidelines, and context specific considerations. \n\nIf the research was conducted the researcher should consider taking appropriate steps to protect human subjects and, where appropriate, their avatars or online representations.\n\nHas the researcher obtained proper informed consent? The importance of consent stays the same online. The researcher needs to obtain it so to not formally contravenes European data protection legislation. However, it can be done in different ways online. For example, a consent form could be emailed and then faxed, posted or send back via email. Another way of creating consent could be to include a tick box \"I accept\" to simulate a signature.\n\nIn asynchronous formats of interviews, researchers have experienced a lack of knowing if the participant has withdrawn or if the answer just took some time. In synchronous interviews a withdraw button could be added.\n\nNetiquette, the way people expect someone to behave online, becomes important for online interviews in three ways. Firstly, silence which can be used in face-to-face interviews as a tactic to encourage someone to talk more – is more ambiguous online. It could mean that the interviewer has left, is slow to answer or even withdrew from the interview. Secondly, by selecting participants for an online interview two things should be kept in mind. On the one side, the aspect of representation should be considered as not everyone has internet or has the technical abilities to use it. Furthermore, if the interviewer aims to approach candidates online in forums, the researcher should think of ways how to do it in the least disruptive way, for example asking the forum facilitator first instead of directly posting the inquiry into the forum. Another important aspect is the use of emoticons. A sensitive use of emoticons is advisable to adapt the style to suit that of the interviewee.\n\nThe Internet allows many people at once to directly interview persons of public interest. Voting-systems may allow communities to collectively find the questions they'd like to get answered most.\n\nOne popular subsite of the social media and aggregation site reddit, /r/IAmA, prompts its users to ask celebrities, politicians other persons of public interest questions about any topic. These interviews are called \"AMAs\" for \"ask me anything\". These interviews, of which there are multiple everyday, often receive thousands of questions which are voted on by the community via reddit's comment-voting system with all of them being answerable by the person being interviewed. Interviewees are required to provide proof of their identity to the volunteer moderators of the site and have included people such as Barack Obama, Chris Hadfield (who answered questions from the International Space Station), Bill Gates, Stephen Colbert, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Larry King and many more. \n"}
{"id": "47382742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382742", "title": "Ooni Adejinle", "text": "Ooni Adejinle\n\nOoni Adejinle was the 30th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Ajila Oorun and was succeeded by \nOoni Olojo.\n"}
{"id": "26171546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26171546", "title": "Peter Kopecký", "text": "Peter Kopecký\n\nPeter Kopecký is a Slovak romanist and politician.\n\nPreviously the Slovak Ambassador to Romania and Moldova and Rector of Comenius University in Bratislava, he is now Assistant Director of the Institute of European Studies and International Relations at Comenius.\n\nHe is also leader of the Slovak pro-plebiscite movement Priama demokracia - Hnutie domova (PD-HD) and vice president of the pan-European eurosceptic network EUDemocrats. In January 2009, Kopecký announced the foundation of a new party under the name \"Libertas Slovensko\" which was supposed to be the Slovak branch of the pan-European eurosceptic alliance Libertas.eu running for the 2009 European Parliament elections. In spite of public advances the EUDemocrats announced in late March that Kopecký would instead head the electoral list of the small but established Agrarian and Countryside Party. In the election, he could capture no more than 0.45% of the votes.\n\nPeter Kopecky holds a PhD in History and Romanic Languages and is decorated with the \"National Merit Order, Large Cross Rank\" of Romania.\n"}
{"id": "14578563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14578563", "title": "Plantagenet Somerset Fry", "text": "Plantagenet Somerset Fry\n\nPlantagenet Somerset Fry, born Peter George Robin Fry, sometimes used the names 'Peter George Robin Somerset Fry' and 'Peter George Robin Plantagenet Somerset Fry' (3 January 1931 – 10 September 1996), was a British historian and author of more than 50 books. In his youth, he added Somerset to his surname by deed poll, the Fry family originating from Wells in that county, and Plantagenet was a nickname which he adopted at university, relating to his advocacy of Richard III.\n\nPeter George Robin Fry was born in 1931, and was the third child and only son of a distinguished naval officer (created OBE in the 1953 New Year Honours) and pianist. He was educated at Christ Church Cathedral School, Oxford, then Lancing College in West Sussex, and St. Thomas's Hospital Medical School, London, but did not do well at either of the latter two institutions.\n\nAfter failing his exams, he had to leave St. Thomas's after a year. From this point on his father refused to subsidise him any more, so Fry found employment as a librarian and projectionist with the National Film Board of Canada. In 1952 he inherited some money from his grandmother, left his job and married, against his parents' wishes, Audrey Russell whom he had known at medical school. After spending all his money, and failing another degree, Fry became a schoolteacher at Wallop School in Weybridge, Surrey.\n\nIn 1954, Fry began study of law and history at St Catherine's College, Oxford. Needing more money, he twice took part in the television game show \"Double Your Money\", and won the jackpot of £512, making him something of a celebrity, and had his first book, \"Mysteries of History\", published, soon followed by a biography of Elizabeth I. This was the start of a successful writing career, and over the years he wrote numerous popular books about history for adults and for children, as well as books about antiques. He started the Council for Independent Archaeology. Fry was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. During the 1950s and 1960s, Fry worked as a public relations executive and, amongst other roles, served as an information officer for the Association of Architects and Surveyors and for the Ministry of Public Building and Works.\n\nAlthough Fry's professional life was successful, his personal life was unhappy. His first marriage to Audrey Russell was dissolved in 1957.\n\nThe following year he married Daphne Elizabeth Caroline, daughter of Major (Hon. Lt-Col) Frederick Reginald Yorke, of a Yorkshire landed gentry family. However, she was soon diagnosed with an incurable form of kidney cancer, although Fry never let her know it. After her death in 1961, he set up a medical research trust in her memory.\n\nHe then married the Hon. Mrs Leri Butler (née Llywelyn-Jones), a divorcée (previously married to the Hon. Pierce Alan Somerset David Butler, son of the 7th Earl of Carrick); she was 24 years his senior. The marriage ended in divorce in 1973.\n\nThe following year he married Fiona Whitcombe, who survived him.\n\nHe was the victim of several car crashes, one of which made him reliant on the use of a wheelchair for many years.\n\nIn 1996, Fry was told he was dying of bowel cancer, but he refused treatment, and suffocated himself with a plastic bag at his home in Wattisfield, Suffolk at the age of 65, after writing a letter explaining his actions to the coroner.\n\n"}
{"id": "19968071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19968071", "title": "Pop culture pathology", "text": "Pop culture pathology\n\nPop culture pathology (or Popular culture pathology) is the forensic study of popular culture in fields such as celebrity, music, fashion, food, aesthetic desire, television, as well as additional and often obscure media and stimuli. Pop culture pathology is an obscure branch of both Critical Theory and Cultural Studies.\n\nOriginating in private universities in the United States around the turn of the millennium, pop culture pathology is the systematic attempt to analyze trends in culture in order to examine more closely the relationships that the individual has to the world around them. The studies include experiments with the aesthetic experiences that people have in common, with the goal being to uncover the intrinsic trend that allows for the phenomenon of extrinsic trends. Some common philosophical foundations for this tradition are Michel Foucault and the philosophy of deconstruction pioneered by Jacques Derrida.\n\nThe most common way to test theories in pop culture pathology is to attempt to simulate situations of complete cultural ignorance. For example, a test done in 2005 at University of California, Berkeley, is referred to as the \"Botto Experiment\". A young student named Nicholas Botto was given a CD on its release date that had received no radio play and which he had no exposure to. He listened to only this album for two months and was readmitted to society. He was told to return in a year's time with 5 albums that he found he enjoyed in light of the album he had been assigned. In the experiment the album that was famously used was \"In An Aeroplane Over The Sea\" by the indie rock band Neutral Milk Hotel. The style of music was known as \"Lo-Fi\" which was uncommon at the time. A year later Botto returned with five similar albums. His choices perfectly predicted a generation of music in the Lo-Fi genre, opening the door for pop culture pathology to be known as a legitimate subject.\n\nThe postmodern implications of this type of experimentation are still being realized by scientists and philosophers. By assigning meaning to a certain cultural item the person conducting the experiment is deciding what will matter in the entirety of the next year for the subject. It seems to go without saying that this type of influence poses solutions for current cultural trends that are deemed \"immoral.\" By making the greater good more fashionable socially many of the worlds problems have the potential to be fixed in the future.\n\nUnfortunately the Botto Experiment caused irreversible side effects. The cultural boom that the experiment predicted engulfed the subject forcing an end to the next stage of the experiment. Next, the subject was supposed to be given the same album a second time and told to return with an additional five. The second phase was supposed to show the instability of modern society and the impossibility of forcing the individual to move against it. This was proven wrong as the subject returned to the same five albums as before, effectively ruining the study.\n\nThis type of experiment has taken place on different scales and in different ways. For example, the Music Genome Project has created a service known as Pandora Radio that allows the user to connect with various types of music according to extremely limited initial criteria. This type of conditioning is also present in the latest incarnation of Apple's iTunes. The new \"Genius\" feature allows the user to discover music that perpetuates their current cultural trend, furthering the flawed results of the perplexing but vastly studied Botto Experiment.\n\nAcademia has been waiting anxiously for the next manifestation of popular culture pathology. The anticipation has caused the creation of two different views on the subject. One, pioneered in the United States, predicts that the science will next try to cause moral reform. Much fear surrounds this popular view but more than that there is suspicion that the sentiment has simply been placed at the influence of another experiment in the field itself. Given the ironic nature of the study it seems likely that the next manifestation will be at the hands of the next philosopher daring enough to repeat the Botto Experiment with a focus on the field of popular culture pathology instead of popular culture itself.\n\nThe second prediction arose in Europe and is more secular. Philosophers there believe that popular culture pathology is the end of the moral focus of the \"new world.\" The term \"new world\" has been used here in order to call attention to the fact that the Americas have habitually been ahead of Europe technologically, but far behind intellectually. The idea that morality is facing its doom is generally coming, again, from postmodern European philosophy (see Nietzsche, Baudrillard, Heidegger) predicting the realization that meaning is being assigned by the institution not the individual. This brings the field back to Michel Foucault and the problem of the individual. This view harbors intense curiosity at the cyclical nature of the study. In the end only time will tell the future of this curious new field of study.\n"}
{"id": "50985948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50985948", "title": "Radu Rosetti", "text": "Radu Rosetti\n\nRadu Rosetti (Francized \"Rodolphe Rosetti\"; September 14, 1853 – February 12, 1926) was a Moldavian, later Romanian politician, historian and novelist, father of General Radu R. Rosetti and a prominent member of the Rosetti family. From beginnings in traditionalist conservatism, he adopted progressive agrarian stances, and experimented with modernizing his estate in Căiuți. A Moldavian regionalist sitting on the left of the Conservative Party, he collaborated more or less formally with the National Liberal opposition during his tenure as prefect of Roman, Brăila, and Bacău. Also serving two terms in the Assembly of Deputies and briefly employed as general director of prisons, Rosetti adopted an anti-elitist and reformist discourse. This pitted him against Conservative chiefs such as Nicolae Filipescu and Titu Maiorescu, but he was protected by Lascăr Catargiu and, later, by Petre P. Carp.\n\nRosetti was financially ruined by his poor investments in the grain trade, and, from 1898, withdrew to secondary jobs in the Foreign Affairs Ministry. Although he lacked a formal training, he was a treasured polyglot, and achieved his notoriety as a scholar and social critic. His early studies focused on Moldavia's legal and social history, but later took up more politically charged themes. A mild antisemite and adversary of Jewish emancipation, Rosetti then turned to criticizing his own class and its manorialism, constructing an influential paradigm in progressive historiography. Welcomed into the ranks of left-wing Poporanism by 1906, he proposed a radical land reform and prophesied the peasants' revolt of 1907.\n\nThe early stages of World War I, with Romania maintaining neutrality, saw Rosetti campaigning for the Central Powers. He advised against any alliance with the Russian Empire, being fearful of Pan-Slavism and supportive of the Romanian claims in Bessarabia. He was disappointed when the country sided with Russia, and remained behind in Bucharest when it was occupied by the Central Powers; with Carp and other Conservatives, he organized a collaborationist bureaucracy, and served in it as Ephor of the Civilian Hospitals. Such choices contrasted those of his son, who became a war hero. Reunited with him in postwar Greater Romania, Rosetti still pursued his literary career, receiving accolades for his final works as a memoirist and raconteur. One of his \"Moldavian tales\" was adapted for the screen by his son-in-law, Victor Beldiman.\n\nBorn in Iași, Radu was part of the boyar Rosetti family, which included Antonie Ruset, Prince of Moldavia from 1675 to 1678. Contrary to family legend, he was not descended directly from Prince Antonie, but rather from Antonie's brother, \"Cupar\" Constantin. The scholar's great-grandfather was Lascarache Ruset and his grandfather was Logothete Răducanu Ruset (1762–1838). The latter's career had peaked during the Russian invasion of 1806, when, according to Ivan Liprandi, he showed himself to be \"simple but honest [and] beloved by all\".\n\nRosetti's father, the administrator Răducanu Ruset the Younger, had studied philosophy at Munich. His mother Aglae, Ruset's second wife, was the daughter of Grigore Alexandru Ghica. Famous for her physical beauty, she had trained as an artist in Vienna, and, upon her return, became an ardent Romanian nationalist. Her husband, although generally conservative, felt solidarity with his tenant farmers and demanded the abolition of corvées. In 1847, he adhered to a boyar project for the creation of a commercial bank.\n\nThe family owned the large estate of Căiuți, nearby the spas of Slănic-Moldova, which was the childhood home of Radu and his siblings (a brother and several sisters, including Ana and Margot Rosetti). A native speaker of Romanian, Radu learned Greek from his paternal grandmother; he later achieved fluency in French (his favorite language of expression), English, German, Italian and Spanish, and had a working knowledge of Latin and, from 1888, Old Church Slavonic. He studied at Iași, Geneva, Toulouse (where he finished high school) and Paris, his only diploma being a \"Baccalauréat\" degree. During his time in Switzerland, he indirectly witnessed the fall of France, with the surrender of the Armée de l'Est; he then became passionate about conservative and Legitimist politics, smuggling weapons into Navarre during the Third Carlist War.\n\nUpon returning home, he moderated his reactionary stance. As Radu Jr noted, his father became a \"progressive conservative\" who admired \"State Socialism\". Against traditionalists and elitists such as those from the \"Junimea\" school, Radu Sr reportedly believed that boyar privilege was a bane, and insisted that aristocrats too should work for a living. While he endorsed Moldavia's merger with neighboring Wallachia into the United Principalities (from 1881, the Kingdom of Romania), he maintained a conservative dislike for the Wallachians, viewing Moldavians as structurally superior.\nRadu inherited Căiuți upon Răducanu's death in June 1872, and used its forest for hunting, which he generally did on horseback. He played host to important figures in Romanian public life, including Dimitrie Ghica-Comănești, Dimitrie A. Grecianu, Dimitrie Rosetti Tescanu, Anghel Saligny, and Alexandru B. Știrbei—thus, he cultivated both members of the National Liberal Party (PNL) and of the opposition Conservative Party. Sacrificing his dreams of becoming an engineer in order to supervise his inheritance, Rosetti entertained hopes of modernizing Căiuți during the transition from manorialism to full capitalism. Unable to adapt his lifestyle, he eventually succumbed to market pressures.\n\nIn June 1876, at Saint Spyridon Orthodox church in Iași, he married Henrieta Bogdan, the ultra-conservative granddaughter of poet Nicolae Dimache. Her father, the Moldavian artillery officer Lascăr Bogdan, had died years before, and she was chaperoned by a relative, Grigore Sturdza; her sister, Elena, was married to the \"Uhlan\" officer Mișa Sturdza. Well loved by his tenant farmers and passionate about advancing their causes, Rosetti served terms as a mayor of Căiuți. It was there that Henrieta gave birth to their children: Radu (in 1877), Henri (1879), Eugène (1881) and Magdalena (1882).\n\nIn 1888, however, Rosetti and his entire family moved out of the manor, taking up residence in Târgu Ocna. Their new home was a townhouse once owned by Costache Negri. This move followed a long dispute over land between Rosetti and his sisters, with Radu taking over ownership of Răducăneni, and conceding his manor to Ana; both estates were running debts and were eventually resold, leaving Rosetti inconsolable to his death. He continued to pursue his agriculturalist dream, investing his settlement money (against Henrieta's advice) to take up tenant farming in Urdești, on land owned by George Diamandy.\n\nFrom December 1888, encouraged by historians Ioan Bianu and Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, Rosetti published his first works of genealogy and agrarian history in the periodical \"Revista Nouă\". Formally joining the Conservatives, his first important public post was as prefect of Roman County in August 1889. This followed the ascendancy of Prime Minister Lascăr Catargiu, who appointed Rosetti in hopes of curbing socialist agitation in the area. He resigned after a fairly short interval, following Catargiu's deposition. During most of 1890, he was severely ill after medicating himself on anti-obesity pills, and received treatment from Jean-Martin Charcot in Paris. He returned in 1891 and was elected to the Assembly of Deputies for a Fălciu County seat, in the 3rd Electoral College—then reelected in 1892. These were intense campaigns, pitting Rosetti against the opposition's Radu Ralea.\n\nIn October, he was named prefect of Brăila County, a job which he took because his wife's declining health required advanced medical services. As an outsider, he was asked by Catargiu to audit the local Conservative chapter, to the annoyance of a junior party leader, Nicolae Filipescu. Filipescu turned to sabotaging Rosetti's work; the latter contacted Bianu and, through him, PNL chairman Dimitrie Sturdza, to help him appoint a bipartisan council of reputable men. When news of this attempted partnership broke nationally, the Conservatives were irritated. After another series of challenges, including the cholera pandemic (eventually handled by Iacob Felix), Danube floods, and dockers' strikes, Rosetti moved on to a similar position in Bacău County in October 1893. He inaugurated an anti-corruption campaign and various public works, but also appealed to nepotism, such as when he ensured the victory of his protege, G. I. Donici, in the by-election for the Assembly. By April 1894, PNL agitators instigated the peasants against Conservative tax reforms, causing riots in Ardeoani and Răcăciuni. Voices in his own party called Rosetti responsible for the 17 wounded Gendarmes and the unknown of number of peasants brutalized during retaliations.\n\nDuring his stay in Bacău, Rosetti made another enemy: his own nephew, the local Conservative boss Eugen Ghica-Comănești, who objected strongly to the program of reforms. In January 1895, with Catargiu still Prime Minister, Rosetti applied for a vacated government job, that of general director of prisons. He received his appointment and together with Vasilică Rosetti (a relative working for the Romanian Police), attempted to reform the prison bureaucracy and clamp down on petty corruption. At the time, the PNL newspaper \"Voința Națională\" ran a story according to which he had abusively chained the inmates of Mărgineni; Rosetti denied the accusations.\n\nThat October, when the government fell to a PNL one led by Sturdza, Rosetti was fired according to a tradition that a change in power brought about a wholesale replacement of civil servants with supporters of the new leadership. By then, his Urdești project had proved a failure, with Rosetti losing most of his investment to declining grain prices. Without a stable domicile, Rosetti lived with his Bogdan in-laws in Grădinți, then at a retreat in Agapia, while his sons were studying in Iași and Bucharest. It was here that he began work on his first historical novel, \"Cu paloșul\" (\"With the Longsword\"), fictionalizing the life and adventures of Bogdan I. It first appeared as a \"feuilleton\" in the Conservative daily \"Epoca\".\n\nIn trouble because he lacked the means to live decently, and because his lack of a university degree meant he could not become a lawyer or a professor, Rosetti sought a professional job relatively safe from the vicissitudes of politics. At the time, the Foreign Affairs Ministry formed one such oasis. He applied there, and in April 1898, when Sturdza was both Prime and Foreign Minister, he was hired as the archivist's assistant, again helped by Bianu. His other supporter was Gheorghe Văsescu, a friend of the PNL factional leader Ion I. C. Brătianu. Although this new job was low in the ministerial hierarchy, his fluent knowledge of several languages (itself a precondition for working in the ministry) and his penchant for historical exegesis helped Rosetti advance. Nevertheless, the promotions came with a humiliating slowness and, with a wife, three sons and a daughter to support, he found the salary insufficient. Although the Conservatives returned to power in 1899, their new leader was Gheorghe Grigore Cantacuzino—Rosetti's patron, Catargiu, died suddenly the same year, leaving him virtually without friends in the party.\n\nRosetti was living in Bucharest, where he first rented rooms in Olbricht House, Sfântul Ionică Street, then moved in with his wife and daughter on Mihai Vodă Street, in Lipscani, and finally, in 1903, on Schitu Măgureanu Boulevard. By 1899, he was transferred from the archives to the special projects department, and also worked on the review commission for surveying the border between Romania and Austria-Hungary (dispatched to Vatra Dornei during summer 1900). He was made head of special projects in April 1902, when he also began surveying the border between Northern Dobruja and the Kingdom of Bulgaria.\n\nRosetti returned to his studies of history, with a genealogy of the Ghica family, published in 1902 by \"Convorbiri Literare\". It became the topic of controversy, proving that the Ghica-Comănești branch, including his rival Eugen, were usurpers of the princely name, and descended from the Suldjaroglu family. By 1905 he had issued \"Cu paloșul\", which enjoyed considerable success, as a volume, alongside other historical sketches: monographs of Răducăneni–Bohotin and Vascani, a review of Moldavian Catholicism and the Csangos, and a genealogy of the Răducăneni Rosettis. For a while, his research concentrated on Bessarabia, a former Moldavian province ceded to the Russian Empire. In 1903, he authored a polemic with the local \"Zemstvo\", which had demanded cession over Romanian monastery estates in that region.\n\nOn orders from Ioan Lahovary, he also began researching a tract on the history of the Jews in Romania. Published in French as \"La Roumanie et les Juifs\", under the pen name \"Verax\", then translated by Rosetti himself into English, it doubled as a polemic with the Alliance Israélite Universelle (AIU), and specifically with publicist Edmond Sincerus. According to Radu Jr, who helped his father with statistics, the work responded to \"the Jewish campaign against Romania\" and \"upset Jews both local and foreign.\" He argues that the \"utterly objective\" brochure defended Romanian antisemitism as economic protection rather than racial prejudice. A review in \"Journal des Débats\" highlighted the same core argument, but was cautious about its neutrality. It describes Rosetti's text as \"more of a profusely cited plea than the result of disengaged inquiry.\" On the AIU side, polemicists argued that \"La Roumanie et les Juifs\" amounted to propaganda or deflection. A 1904 reaction, published by \"The Jewish Chronicle\", noted that \"in Romania, the words 'verax' and 'liar' are synonymous\". According to \"L'Univers Israélite\", Verax's \"venomous pen\" produced \"almost an official response by the Romanian government\". \n\nRosetti expressed sympathy for Zionism, but mainly because he viewed it as a validation that Jews were unassimilable. The essay therefore insisted that Jewish emancipation was not an option, \"focus[ing] attention on the direct contact between Jews and the Romanian peasantry\". According to Rosetti, Jews prevented Romanians from becoming an entrepreneurial middle class. However, as argued by economist H. Bouët, he contradicted his assumption by noting that Romanians needed to be \"pushed\" by government expenditure into \"trades, commerce and industry\". Comparing Jewish immigrants to the \"Uitlanders\" of Transvaal, Rosetti acknowledged the history of pogroms, but argued that these were equivalent to other violence sparked by economic competition. The book also included respectful tributes to perceived Jewish talents, noting that it was \"impossible to speak ill of the craftsman of this race\", \"a tireless worker [who] leaves no room for criticism\"; Radu Jr notes that his family viewed Jews overall as a danger, but that they welcomed assimilated Jews and frowned upon violent antisemitism.\n\nRosetti was a widower from September 1905, but enjoyed the moral and material support of his grown sons: Radu Jr was an officer and Henri a jurist, while Eugène had quit school and was prospecting for Standard Oil. He himself supplemented his income as an insurance investigator, assessing damages caused by hail. During this time, he became preoccupied with a looming social crisis. The first of his works to openly deal with the issue of agrarian inequalities and tensions over land was \"Despre originea și transformările clasei stăpânitoare din Moldova\" (\"On the Origins and Transformations of the Moldavian Ruling Class\"). His thesis looked back on the sources of Vlach law, suggesting that ancient Romanians were all free men organized into \"obști\", that latifundia were imposed through boyar theft, and that serfdom was only cemented by the will of Michael the Brave in the late 16th century. Dealing more specifically with the genealogical claims of the Romanian nobles, Rosetti distinguished between an \"Uradel\" of \"knyazes\" and a later stratum of Phanariotes, with the latter including his own lineage.\n\nAs noted by medievalist Ștefan Ștefănescu, this account was fundamentally inaccurate, but Rosetti still had the \"merit [...] of breaking away from traditional Romanian historiography, which idealized the past.\" Cultural historian Z. Ornea also underlines that Rosetti's \"harshness\", although \"not entirely unique\", set him aside from other boyar literati. His \"vituperation\", Ornea argues, \"has its bitter source in his own biography.\" In passing, Rosetti also touched controversial topics of the more distant past, offering his take on Roman Dacia and the origin of the Romanians. He viewed initial Roman colonization as weak, and believed that the nation was created by the invading South Slavs and captives from the Diocese of Dacia. This theory was immediately challenged by Dimitrie Onciul, who cited early sources which appeared to contradict Rosetti.\n\nAlthough Rosetti had kept his post under another Sturdza cabinet, Cantacuzino's return in 1904 signaled his downfall. His prophecy of an impending disaster clashed with the Conservatives' optimism, and he was pressured into resigning before April 1906. Without joining the PNL, Rosetti now sympathized with its left-wing and, beyond, with the emerging Poporanist movement, declaring himself disgusted with the Conservatives' National Exhibit of 1906. In December, he put out the tract \"Pământul, sătenii și stăpânii în Moldova\" (\"Land, Villagers and Masters in Moldavia\"). In the 1940s, Traian Herseni reviewed it as \"one of the most precious works\" of the period, a pioneering contribution to rural sociology. As noted by Rosetti's son, the work was much praised by Sturdza, but constituted an attack on the \"sacrosanct principles\" of Conservative theoreticians, above all Titu Maiorescu and Duiliu Zamfirescu, but also Filipescu, the \"unrepentant reactionary\"; Ornea also notes that Maiorescu was vexed and vengeful. However, in 1907, dismissing objections from Maiorescu and Ioan Kalinderu, the Romanian Academy voted to grant Rosetti its Năsturel Herescu Award.\n\nThe peasants' uprising of February, which seemed to confirm Rosetti's foretelling, had erupted outside Hârlău, but soon spread throughout the land, prompting Sturdza's return as Prime Minister. During these events, Radu Jr was tasked with protecting Jewish property in Bucharest against antisemitic backlashes. Rosetti put out his other key work of history later in 1907. Titled \"Pentru ce s-au răsculat țăranii?\" (\"Why Did the Peasants Rebel?\"), it argued that the uprising marked a reaction against the latifundia and tenancies. Building on earlier observations, he documented the survival of serf-like obligations under the guise of a new regime. As he noted, peasants being forced to pay for fodder and informally pressured or terrorized into reimbursing corvées, and often reduced to lassitude and alcoholism. With this tract, Rosetti also emerged as a supporter of radical land reform, arguing that capitalism was remaking the village into a \"plutocratic assemblage\". His became the orthodox interpretation in Romanian historiography, with Rosetti being recognized by scholar Lucian Boia as a \"rejuvenator\" in the field.\n\nPhilosopher Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea, who coined the term \"neo-serfdom\" to describe Romanian labor relations, saw the work as \"remarkable\", \"illuminating\", and fundamentally compatible with his own Marxist sociology. According to sociologist Henri H. Stahl, Rosetti had an overwhelming influence on Gherea, and this was unjustified: \"[Rosetti] never properly understood the issue, as one cannot really claim to understand rural life only from documents and personal experience; one needs assiduous and rigorously scientific fieldwork.\" However, Gherea also had qualms about Rosetti's bias. He asserted that Rosetti had remained a boyar at heart, who dreamed of a Romanian \"Junckerism\" and rejected the notion of helping the peasants with affordable credits. Moreover, Gherea argued that Rosetti had not highlighted the conflict of values and morals between landowners and peasants, with each class having its own notions of justice and retribution. Instead, Rosetti blamed socialist agitators for the peasants' recourse to terror and vandalism. Similarly, Ornea notes that Rosetti kept the \"vain hope\" that the land issue would be solved by King Carol I, and that he partly subscribed to the discredited theory according to which Jewish tenants, alongside socialists, were largely responsible for the \"crisis\".\n\nThroughout the year of the revolt, Rosetti also put out monographs on censorship in early 19th-century Moldavia, including the clampdown on Jewish literature during the \"Regulamentul Organic\" regime, as well as the tacit support for nationalist propaganda under Grigore Alexandru Ghica and its repression by Mehmed Fuad Pasha. His contributions to this narrow field remain recognized as the most relevant in over a century of research, although scholars have since noted their numerous errors of citation and chronology. He had been co-opted by the Poporanists at \"Viața Românească\", which hosted his responses to critics, in particular George Panu. This was also the terrain for clashes with the right-wing populist historian Nicolae Iorga, against whom Rosetti was invoked as an authority, causing Iorga to withdraw his articles for \"Viața Românească\". As Iorga recalled in 1934, Rosetti was a man of \"unmatched conceit\" and an \"intelligent dilettante in matters of history\".\n\nHe resumed his literary activity by 1909, contributing to the weekly \"Minerva\" and then to Iorga's \"Sămănătorul\". When his eldest son married Ioana Știrbey (orphaned daughter of Alexandru B. Știrbei and sister of the more famous Eliza), Rosetti became in-laws with Ion I. C. Brătianu, who was now leader of the PNL, replacing Sturdza as head of government. Ioana died in 1914, leaving Radu Jr in charge of her sizable estates. Magdalena Rosetti also got married, to actor Victor Beldiman—brother of diplomat Alexandru Al. Beldiman.\n\nReadmitted into the Foreign Affairs Ministry in 1909, Radu Sr became department director under the Conservative Petre P. Carp, but resigned again in 1912, when his rival Maiorescu took over as Prime Minister. He remained active as a scholar, publishing in 1909 two books on the 1806 war in Bessarabia and the Moldavian diplomatic efforts, as well as two other monographs on Moldavia and Wallachia during the same interval. He also looked into the microhistory of property disputes, publishing his ancestors' ledger of land claims and, in 1910, a two-volume account of the 1850s conflict between the Moldavian government and Neamț Monastery. Returning as \"Verax\", he detailed the conflict between Romania and the Kingdom of Greece in the brochure \"Grèce et Roumanie\", printed in Paris; under his real name, he also revisited the \"Jewish Question\", putting out a tract on developments to 1909. The issue was also touched in the article \"Un proces de sacrilegiu la 1836 în Moldova\" (\"A Trial over Sacrilege in 1836 Moldavia\"), where he suggested that Romanians were naturally tolerant and Jews generally fanatical. The novel \"Păcatele sulgeriului\" (\"The Sins of the \"Sluger\"\"), came out in 1912 and sought to illustrate Rosetti's theories on the land question. It showed the brave but tragically flawed Mihalache, and 18th-century boyar who accumulates land stolen from yeomen and is punished by fate. The work is one of several in which Rosetti describes an \"utterly despicable\" \"droit du seigneur\", allegedly exercised by boyars against nubile Roma slaves.\n\nAlthough he still professed his Francophilia, Rosetti distrusted Russia, pined for Bessarabia, and, from the 1870s, wanted Romania to stand by the Triple Alliance and the Central Powers. He maintained this stance during the early stages of World War I, when Romania kept neutral. His 1914 brochure, \"Nici într-un chip cu Rusia\" (\"Never but Never with Russia\") highlighted the threat of Pan-Slavism and informed the public that an alliance with Russia would soon turn into a currency union, a protectorate, and eventually an annexation of Romania. Rosetti rooted in particular for the German Empire, since he could discern in its policies \"nothing that would be detrimental to our own interests\", but rather \"our own salvation from the Russian peril.\"\n\nThe same ideology was taken up in three later tracts: in 1914, \"Atitudinea politicii rusești în țările române povestită de organele oficiale franceze\" (\"The Russian Political Stance toward the Romanian Lands, as Recounted by French Official Channels\"); in 1915, \"Adevărații provocatori\" (\"The Actual Instigators\") and \"Atitudinea României în războiul actual\" (\"Romania's Stance in the Current War\"). Here, he theorized that the conflict was the result of Russian intrigues and British imperialism, while accusing the Romanians of being poorly informed about their choices, \"indifferent to the plight of Bessarabia and the Bessarabians.\" These Romanians included Radu Jr, who openly supported the Entente. All such works were published in cooperation with \"Viața Românească\", which, in 1916, also put out Rosetti's answer to scholar Vasile Pârvan, wherein he reasserted his views on the origin of the Romanians. Rosetti was also a contributor to Carp's gazette, \"Moldova\", a tribune for anti-Russian and Germanophile Moldavians.\n\nReportedly, King Ferdinand I read \"Nici într-un chip cu Rusia\" and approved of its content, although he found it somewhat \"excessive\". However, even in 1915 Rosetti could clearly read that both he and Prime Minister Brătianu leaned toward the Entente Powers. Eventually, in mid 1916, Romania declared war on the Central Powers. Following an abortive attack on Austria-Hungary, Romania was invaded by the Central Powers, suffering major defeats at Turtucaia and at Bucharest. King Ferdinand and the army, alongside a mass of refugees, withdrew to Iași; Romania, directly supported by the Russians, only held on to Rosetti's native Moldavia. As a loyalist soldier, Radu Jr fought with distinction and was severely wounded at Răzoare-Mărășești, earning the rank of Colonel.\n\nRosetti the elder remained behind in occupied Bucharest, where he rejoined a cell of Conservatives that included former Prime Ministers Carp and Maiorescu, as well as the Beldimans. His most controversial career move was open collaboration with the Germans and Germanophiles: in June 1917, he was nominated as minister in a putative Carp government. He ended up accepting a more minor position under Lupu Kostaki, becoming Ephor of the Civilian Hospitals. According to his son-in-law Victor Beldiman and his friend Bianu, Rosetti proved himself a staunch and dignified administrator, refusing to bow down to the Germans. Nonetheless, he was also involved in the intrigues dividing the Bucharest Conservatives. He supported Carp against Kostaki and Alexandru Marghiloman, and, the latter claims, promoted to high office favorites such as Jan Zaplachta. Meanwhile, with Beldiman, he also began collecting proof for a \"Brătianu file\", to be used for denouncing the PNL chief.\n\nIn May 1918, with Marghiloman appointed head of a Conservative-and-Germanophile cabinet, Ferdinand I conceded defeat, and Romania sued for peace. Rosetti disliked Marghiloman, and immediately resigned from his administrative position, but nonetheless viewed this moment as a confirmation of his predictions, calling for Carp to replace Marghiloman and bring Romania into Germany's orbit. In an open letter, while confessing his rekindled \"hatred for the Germans\", he demanded the ouster of King Ferdinand and his royal house. As noted by the monarchist Iorga, this document, the product of \"bad fashion\", caused great distress to Queen Marie. During the interval, Rosetti also began writing opinion pieces in Dimitrie S. Nenițescu's newspaper, \"Renașterea\", where he issued reprimands against his erstwhile friend Brătianu and other PNL politicos. His other venue was \"Izbânda\", the \"independent democratic paper\", which was heavily censored by the Marghiloman administration.\n\nHowever, by September, the Central Powers were defeated on the Macedonian Front, rekindling Romanian hopes for an Entente victory. Reenrolled in the French Army as an adamant anti-German, Radu Jr mediated between Ferdinand and the Army of the Orient. Romania's situation improved greatly with the German Armistice on November 11, which signaled Marghiloman's downfall. Rosetti ran unsuccessfully for an Assembly seat in the November 18 election. According to Iorga, he still enjoyed sizable support from the Bucharest populace. At the time, \"Renașterea\" published his designs for land reform. Criticizing Marghiloman for his concessions to the peasants, these went back on his earlier radicalism, proposing the preservation of some large estates, in hopes that these would ensure competitiveness and the modernization of agriculture.\n\nIn December, Radu Jr returned to Romania with General Berthelot and the Entente mission, before spending two years as a military attaché in London. His father then lived to see the creation of Greater Romania, which confirmed the expectations of the pro-Entente side but, thanks to Marghiloman, also included Bessarabia. As Radu Jr notes, he was \"thankful\" and felt no bitterness toward the PNL, being in this set apart from other Conservatives. Meanwhile his ideas on agrarian issues had a lasting an influence on late Poporanism, which, during the interwar, became the official doctrine of the Peasants' Party and then the National Peasants' Party. According to political economist Ion Veverca, Rosetti, Iorga and Dobrogeanu-Gherea were also exponents of a stage in Romanian economic theory, between classical economics and cultural relativism. Moreover, Rosetti's work on Moldavian village history became a source for Iorgu Iordan's research into regional toponymy. \n\nRosetti returned to publishing in 1920–1921, with two selections of \"Moldavian tales\" (\"Povești moldovenești\"). He followed up with a 1922 memoir, \"Amintiri\", which Iorga recognized as a \"precious\" source. Part of it doubled as oral history, collecting testimonies from Rosetti's elders, including details of Jewish toleration and pogroms, as well as on the looting and raping by marauding Ottomans and the intermingling between Romanians and Roma slaves. In its polemical fragments, it showed glimpses of the author's Russophobia and critique of manorialism, with jibes against landowners such as Costache Conachi.\n\nAs noted by literary historian George Călinescu, overall the series showed the boyar class being \"unbelievably obsolete\", \"dazzled\" by \"the new liberal society\"; Rosetti's style was \"always agreeable.\" Similarly, Ornea concludes that the \"sympathetic reconstruction [they offer] can be considered entirely reliable as a document\", but also \"veritable literature.\" Critic Eugen Lovinescu praises Rosetti as one of the great and distinctly Moldavian raconteurs, placing him alongside Gheorghe Sion and Dumitru C. Moruzi. The \"Tales\", fictionalizing Moldavia's more distant past, were noticeably more daring in subject matter and conflict. Praised by Călinescu for their accomplished narratives, they included episodes of double-dealing over land property, vengeful castration, and forceful religious conversion.\n\nBy April 1923, he was again frequenting \"Viața Românească\", at the Poporanists' new club in Bucharest. The modernist Felix Aderca, who also paid a visit, recalls that \"lily-white\" Rosetti was showing signs of senility, describing medieval genealogies to a bindery foreman. Also that year, Rosetti indirectly contributed to the history of Romanian cinema, as one of his novellas became the basis for Alfred Halm's \"The Gypsy Girl at the Alcove\". A lost film adapted by Beldiman (who also appears in it as Taverner Ștrul), it is noted for starring both Elvira Popescu and Ion Finteșteanu, as well as for its depiction of sexual abuse by the boyars on their female slaves. Rosetti's final scholarly work was a 1923 piece on medieval Moldavia from Lațcu to Alexander I, followed in 1924 by a third edition of \"Cu paloșul\".\n\nRosetti died on February 12, 1926 in Bucharest and was buried in Bellu cemetery, Plot 97. A second and final installment of \"Amintiri\" came out in 1927, with the \"Moldavian tales\" parodied in \"Viața Românească\" by Păstorel Teodoreanu. The historian's eldest son, from 1924 Brigadier General Rosetti, continued his scholarly work and, in 1927, joined the Romanian Academy, presiding over the Academy Library in succession to Bianu. Although he detested fascism, he agreed to serve as Education Minister for Ion Antonescu during 1941. According to Boia, Rosetti's 1914 warning about Russia was inaccurate for its day, but \"terribly close to facts\" when contemplated in relation to the Soviet occupation of 1944–1958. Implicated in the Antonescu trial through the doctrine of collective responsibility, Rosetti Jr was sentenced by the Romanian People's Tribunals. He died in Văcărești prison, and shares his father's grave at Bellu.\n\nMagdalena Rosetti-Beldiman survived communist persecution, sheltering Brătianu's widow in her own apartment. Her brother the general had left three daughters and one son, also named Radu, who spent time in prison and under surveillance for his contacts with the dissident philosopher Constantin Noica. At the time, while still cited as an authority on agrarian mattes, Rosetti Sr was formally designated \"a historian of the bourgeoisie and landowners\". Following the fall of communism, the Rosettis' contribution was revisited, and their works republished—including a 2011 reissue of \"Amintiri\" with a preface by Neagu Djuvara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2118712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118712", "title": "Ralph of Coggeshall", "text": "Ralph of Coggeshall\n\nRalph of Coggeshall (died after 1227), English chronicler, was at first a monk and afterwards sixth abbot (1207–1218) of Coggeshall, an Essex foundation of the Cistercian order.\n\nRalph himself tells us these facts; and that his resignation of the abbacy was made against the wishes of the brethren, in consequence of his bad health. He took up and continued a \"Chronicon Anglicanum\" belonging to his house; the original work begins at 1066, his own share at 1187. He hoped to reach the year 1227, but his autograph copy breaks off three years earlier.\n\nRalph makes no pretensions to be a literary artist. Where he had a written authority before him he was content to reproduce even the phraseology of his original. At other times he strings together in chronological order, without any links of connection, the anecdotes which he gathered from chance visitors.\n\nUnlike Benedictus Abbas and Roger of Hoveden, he makes little use of documents; only three letters are quoted in his work. On the other hand, the corrections and erasures of the autograph show that he took pains to verify his details; and his informants are sometimes worthy of exceptional confidence. Thus he vouches Richard's chaplain Anselm for the story of the king's capture by Leopold of Austria.\n\nThe tone of the chronicle is usually dispassionate; but the original text contained some personal strictures upon Prince John, which are reproduced in Roger of Wendover. The admiration with which Ralph regarded Henry II is attested by his edition of Ralph Niger's chronicle; here, under the year 1161, he replies to the intemperate criticisms of the original author. On Richard I the abbot passes a judicious verdict, admitting the great qualities of that king, but arguing that his character degenerated. Towards John alone Ralph is uniformly hostile; as a Cistercian and an adherent of the Mandeville family he could hardly be otherwise.\n\nRalph refers in the \"Chronicon\" (s.a. 1091) to a book of visions and miracles which he had compiled, but this is no longer extant. He also wrote a continuation of Niger's chronicle, extending from 1162 to 1178 (printed in R. Anstruther's edition of Niger, London, 1851), and short annals from 1066 to 1223.\n\nThe autograph manuscript of the \"Chronicon Anglicanum\" is to be found in the British Library (Cotton, Vespasian D. X). The same volume contains the continuation of Ralph Niger. The \"Chronicon Terrae Sanctae\", formerly attributed to Ralph, is by another hand; it was among the sources on which he drew for the \"Chronicon Anglicanum\". The so-called \"Libellus de motibus anglicanis sub rege Johanne\" (printed by Martène and Durand, \"Ampl. Collectio\", v. pp. 871–882) is merely an excerpt from the \"Chronicon Anglicanum\". This latter work was edited for the Rolls series in 1875 by Joseph Stevenson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2666973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2666973", "title": "Sedentism", "text": "Sedentism\n\nIn cultural anthropology, sedentism (sometimes called sedentariness; compare sedentarism) is the practice of living in one place for a long time. , the majority of people belong to sedentary cultures. In evolutionary anthropology and archaeology, \"sedentism\" takes on a slightly different sub-meaning, often applying to the transition from nomadic society to a lifestyle that involves remaining in one place permanently. Essentially, sedentism means living in groups permanently in one place.\n\nFor small-scale nomadic societies it can be difficult to adopt a sedentary lifestyle in a landscape without on-site agricultural or livestock-breeding resources, since sedentism often requires sufficient year-round, easily accessible local natural resources.\n\nNon-agricultural sedentism requires good preservation and storage technologies, such as smoking, drying, and fermentation, as well as good containers such as pottery, baskets, or special pits in which to securely store food whilst making it available. It was only in locations where the resources of several major ecosystems overlapped that the earliest non-agricultural sedentism occurred. For example, people settled where a river met the sea, at lagoon environments along the coast, at river confluences, or where flat savanna met hills, and mountains with rivers.\n\nArchaeological research has shown the earliest sedentism began with on-site agriculture and cattle breeding, and most researchers now believe that sedentism was a prerequisite for the first agriculture to occur. Sedentism usually meant more people, sturdier houses, new stone tools, more jewelry, burials or cemeteries, more long-distance goods and also clear signs of social stratification. At sedentary sites usually more people lived together for a longer time compared to earlier base camp sites or annual gathering sites. This created deeper cultural layers and thus generally richer archaeological materials. There are also indications that the use of rock art is connected to sedentism, both pre-agricultural and agricultural forms.\n\nIn archaeology a number of criteria is necessary for the recognition of either semi or full sedentism.\n\nAccording to Israeli archaeologist Ofer Bar-Yosef, they are as follows:\n\n1. Increasing presence of organisms that benefit from human sedentary activities, e.g.\n2. Cementum increments on mammal teeth\n3. Energy expenditure\n\nThe first sedentary sites were pre-agricultural, and they appeared during the Upper Paleolithic in Moravia and on the East European Plain between c. 25000-17000 BC. A year-round sedentary site, with its larger population, generates a substantial demand on local naturally occurring resources, a demand that may have triggered the development of deliberate agriculture. In the Levant, the Natufian culture was the first to become sedentary at around 12000 BC. The Natufians were sedentary for more than 2000 years before they, at some sites, started to cultivate plants around 10000 BC.\n\nThe Jōmon culture in Japan, which was primarily a coastal culture, was sedentary from c. 12000 to 10000 BC, before the cultivation of rice at some sites in northern Kyushu. In northernmost Scandinavia, there are several early sedentary sites without evidence of agriculture or cattle breeding. They appeared from c. 5300-4500 BC and are all located optimally in the landscape for extraction of major ecosystem resources, e.g. the Lillberget Stone Age village site (c. 3900 BC), the Nyelv site (c. 5300 BC), and the Lake Inari site (c. 4500 BC). In northern Sweden the earliest indication of agriculture occurs at previously sedentary sites, and one example is the Bjurselet site used during the period c. 2700-1700 BC, famous for its large caches of long distance traded flint axes from Denmark and Scania (some 1300 km). The evidence of small-scale agriculture at that site can be seen from c. 2300 BC (burnt cereals of barley).\n\nSedentism increased contacts and trade, and the first Middle East cereals and cattle in Europe, could have spread through a stepping stone process, where the productive gift (cereals, cattle, sheep and goats) were exchanged through a network of large pre-agricultural sedentary sites, rather than a wave of advance spread of people with agricultural economy, and where the smaller sites found in between the bigger sedentary ones, did not get any of the new products. Not all contemporary sites during a certain period (after the first sedentism occurred at one site) were sedentary. Evaluation of habitational sites in northern Sweden indicates that less than 10 percent of all the sites around 4000 BC, were sedentary. At the same time, only 0.5-1 percent of these represented villages with more than 3-4 houses. This means that the old nomadic or migratory life style continued in a parallel fashion for several thousand years, until somewhat more sites turned to sedentism, and gradually switched over to agricultural sedentism.\n\nThe shift to sedentism is coupled with the adoption of new subsistence strategies, specifically from foraging (hunter-gatherer) to agricultural and animal domestication. The development of sedentism led to the rise of population aggregation and formation of villages, cities, and other community types.\n\nIn North America, evidence for sedentism emerges around 4500 BC. \n\nForced sedentism or sedentarization occurs when a dominant group restricts the movements of a nomadic group. Nomadic populations have undergone such a process since the first cultivation of land; the organization of modern society has imposed demands that have pushed aboriginal populations to adopt a fixed habitat.\n\nAt the end of the 19th and throughout the 20th century many previously nomadic tribes turned to permanent settlement. It was a process initiated by local governments, and it was mainly a global trend forced by the changes in the attitude to the land and real property and also due to state policies that complicated border crossing. Among these nations are Negev Bedouin in Jordan, Israel and Egypt, Bashkirs, Kyrgyz, Kazakhs in Soviet Russia, Tibetan nomads in China, Babongo in Gabon, Baka in Cameroon, Innu in Canada etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1916123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1916123", "title": "Siran Upendra Deraniyagala", "text": "Siran Upendra Deraniyagala\n\nDr. Siran Upendra Deraniyagala (born 1942) was former Director-General of Archaeology, Sri Lanka (1992 – 2001).\n\nSiran Uprendra Deraniyagala was born in 1942 in Chilaw, the third of four sons of Paules Edward Pieris (Director of the National Museum of Ceylon (1939-1963)) and Prini née Molamure. His grandfather was Sir Paulus \"Paul\" Edward Pieris.\n\nSiran completed his school education at St. Thomas' College, Mount Lavinia. He obtained a BA and MA in Architecture and Sanskrit at Trinity College, Cambridge before completing a postgraduate Diploma at the Institute of Archaeology, University of London. At the Institute he qualified with distinction and was awarded the Gordon Childe Prize, as one of two best all-round students in all fields of archaeology. In 1968 he joined the Archaeological Survey Department of Sri Lanka as the Assistant Commissioner in charge of scientific excavations. In 1968 Siran discovered ancient human burials in the Fa Hien Cave. In 1969 he oversaw the excavation at the Citadel of Anuradhapura.\n\nSiran then completed a PhD at Harvard University in 1988. In 1992 he was appointed as the Director-General of Archaeology, a position he held until 2001.\n"}
{"id": "58653892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58653892", "title": "Susan Oosthuizen", "text": "Susan Oosthuizen\n\nSusan Oosthuizen is Professor of Medieval Archaeology at the University of Cambridge Institute of Continuing Education. Her research interests lie in the origins and development of early medieval and medieval landscapes, and in the evolution of systems of governance.\n\nSusan completed undergraduate studies at the University of Southampton, Master's research at the University of London, and completed her PhD at the University of Cambridge. She was elected as a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London on 7 June 2007, and is a Fellow of Wolfson College, Cambridge. She is also a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2702218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2702218", "title": "The Babylonian Marriage Market", "text": "The Babylonian Marriage Market\n\nThe Babylonian Marriage Market is an 1875 painting by the British painter Edwin Long of young women being auctioned into marriage. It received attention for its provocative depiction of women being sold and its attention to historical detail. It was inspired by a passage in the \"Histories\" by Herodotus, and the artist painstakingly copied some of the images from Assyrian artifacts.\n\nIt is currently held in the Picture Gallery of Royal Holloway College, after being bought by Thomas Holloway in 1882, where it fetched a then-record price for a painting by a living artist at £6,615.\n"}
{"id": "56397736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56397736", "title": "The Invention of the Beautiful Game", "text": "The Invention of the Beautiful Game\n\nThe Invention of The Beautiful Game: Football and the Making of Modern Brazil is a book by historian Gregg Bocketti published by the University of Florida Press in 2016. The book examines “the changes in Brazilian football from the era of Charles Miller and the sportsmen to the consolidation of the ideas of the beautiful game and of Brazil’s ownership of the game, the transition from foot-ball to futebol.”\n\nIn the book, the author links football to larger historical themes of contemporary Brazil, and further divides into four chapters that each focuses on separate time frames in the perspective of race, class, region, gender, and nationality. Moreover, through social, cultural, and political lenses, the book explores “Brazilian ideas about the game between 1894 and 1938, and the choices Brazilians made about how to explain football during that period.” In analyzing his collected historical evidences, the author emphasizes several key terms such as professionalization, amateurism, nationalization, popularization, racial exclusivity, and social hierarchies. The book contains 20 illustrative figures and incorporates historical records of prominent football clubs, popular magazines, and sports press as evidence for the author’s research.\n\nCritical reception was generally positive. In a review for the Hispanic American Historical Review, writer Bernardo Borges Buarque de Hollanda states that he believes the book made an impactful contribution to adding multiple perspectives to Brazilian football through “questioning the nature of a much-used cliché, the beautiful game, which was crucially internalized as part of common sense and by a portion of the national intellectual community.” Moreover, he marks the book’s preeminence in taking an unorthodox way of historical research yet still leaving an impressive remark in providing a fresh content with historical objectivity that was not “swayed by the native exoticism or stereotypes.” H-Net also reviewed the work, with the reviewer stating that the book was “a nuanced and insightful analysis of the contending narratives about the emergence and expansion of football in Brazil, and of how they have produced the powerful nationalist narrative of the futebol nation.” Writing for the \"Luso-Brazilian Review\", Christopher Gaffney praised the book as \"a well-written, expertly researched examination of the ways in which [futebol] unfolded among and for elites in Rio and São Paulo\" while also commenting that Bocketti \"neglect[ed] to reinsert football into broader urban and cultural dynamics\".\n"}
{"id": "25139820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25139820", "title": "The girls of Ryanair", "text": "The girls of Ryanair\n\nThe girls of Ryanair is a calendar made by low-cost airline Ryanair using female cabin crew as models. The calendar raises money for Charity work. The 2009 Calendar raised money for homeless charity Dublin Simon Community and it drew seven hundred contenders to appear in it. The 2010 calendar gives the proceeds to KIDS (for disabled children and their families). and it drew over eight hundred of Ryanair's 4,000 female crew employees to appear. The National Women's Council of Ireland (NWCI) has strongly criticized the calendar.\n\n"}
{"id": "42700936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42700936", "title": "Thinla (month)", "text": "Thinla (month)\n\nThinlā (Nepal Bhasa: थिंला) is the second month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month corresponds to Margashirsha (मार्गशीर्ष) in the Hindu lunar calendar and roughly matches December in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThinlā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Thinlā Thwa (थिंला थ्व) and Thinlā Gā (थिंला गा) respectively.\n\nThe main event during this month is the Hindu festival of Vaikuntha Ekadashi which is dedicated to Vishnu. It falls on the 11th day of the bright fortnight. The full moon is also a major religious holiday. In Nepal Mandala, the day is celebrated as Yomari Punhi (यःमरि पुन्हि). The festival celebrates the harvest. The special food of the day is a confection known as Yomari, a dumpling made of rice-flour dough filled with a paste of molasses and sesame seeds. In other cultures, the day is known as Dhānya Purnimā.\n"}
{"id": "625479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625479", "title": "Thomas Rymer", "text": "Thomas Rymer\n\nThomas Rymer (c. 1643 – 14 December 1713) was an English antiquary and historian. His most lasting contribution was his compilation and publication of the \"Foedera\", sixteen volumes of texts of agreements made between The Crown of England and foreign powers during all earlier centuries. He held the office of English Historiographer Royal from 1692 to 1714.\n\nThomas Rymer was born at Appleton Wiske, near Northallerton in the North Riding of Yorkshire in 1643, or possibly at Yafforth. He was the younger son of Ralph Rymer, lord of the manor of Brafferton in Yorkshire, described by Clarendon as possessed of a good estate. The father was executed for his part in the Farnley Wood Plot of 1663. The son studied at Northallerton Grammar School where he was a classmate of George Hickes. Here he studied for eight years under Thomas Smelt, a noted Royalist. Aged sixteen, he then went to study at Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, entering on 29 April 1659.\n\nAlthough Rymer was still at Cambridge in 1662, when he contributed Latin verses to a university volume celebrating the marriage of Charles II and Catherine of Braganza, there is no record of his taking a degree. This may have been due to the financial problems his father was suffering at the time, or the fact that on 13 October 1663 his father was arrested, and executed the following year, for his involvement in the Farnley Wood Plot to stage an uprising in Yorkshire against Charles II. Although Thomas's elder brother Ralph was also arrested and imprisoned, Thomas himself was not implicated, and on 2 May 1666, he became a member of Gray's Inn, and was called to the bar on 16 June 1673.\n\nRymer's first appearance in print was as translator of René Rapin's \"Reflections on Aristotle's Treatise of Poesie\" (1674), to which he added a preface in defence of the classical rules for unity in drama. Following the principles there set forth, he composed a tragedy in verse, licensed 13 September 1677, called \"Edgar, or the English Monarch\", which was a failure. It was printed in 1678.\n\nRymer's views on the drama were again given to the world in the shape of a printed letter to Fleetwood Shepheard, the friend of Prior, under the title of \"The Tragedies of the Last Age Consider'd\" (1678). \nTo Ovid's \"Epistles Translated by Several Hands\" (1680), with preface by Dryden, \"Penelope to Ulysses\" was contributed by Rymer, who was also one of the hands who Englished the Plutarch of 1683–86. \nThe life of Nicias fell to his share. He furnished a preface to Whitelocke's \"Memorials of English Affairs\" (1682), and wrote in 1681 \"A General Draught and Prospect of the Government of Europe\", reprinted in 1689 and 1714 as \"Of the Antiquity, Power, and Decay of Parliaments\", where, ignorant of his future dignity, the critic had the misfortune to observe, \"You are not to expect truth from an historiographer royal.\"\n\nHe contributed three pieces to the collection of \"Poems to the Memory of Edmund Waller\" (1688), afterwards reprinted in Dryden's \"Miscellany Poems\", and is said to have written the Latin inscription on Waller's monument in Beaconsfield churchyard. The preface to the posthumous \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" (1688) of Thomas Hobbes is said to have been by Rymer, but the \"Life of Hobbes\" (1681) sometimes ascribed to him was written by Richard Blackburne. He produced a congratulatory poem upon the arrival of Queen Mary in 1689.\n\nHis next piece of authorship was to translate the sixth elegy of the third book of Ovid's \"Tristia\" for Dryden's \"Miscellany Poems\" (1692, p. 148). On the death of Thomas Shadwell in 1692 Rymer received the appointment of historiographer royal, at a yearly salary of £200.\nImmediately afterwards appeared his much discussed \"Short View of Tragedy\" (1693), criticising Shakespeare and Ben Jonson, which produced \"The Impartial Critick\" (1693) of John Dennis, the epigram of Dryden.\n\nRymer's most lasting contribution to scholarship was the \"Foedera\", a collection of \"all the leagues, treaties, alliances, capitulations, and confederacies, which have at any time been made between the Crown of England and any other kingdoms, princes and states\". Documents were presented in Latin with summaries in English. Begun under a royal warrant in 1693, it was \"an immense labour of research and transcription on which he spent the last twenty years of his life\".\n\nThe first edition of the \"Foedera\" comprised 20 volumes dated from 1704 to 1735. Sixteen were prepared by Rymer, of which the last two were published posthumously by his assistant Robert Sanderson, who himself compiled the remaining volumes, the last three being supplementary.\n\nGeorge Holmes revised the first 17 volumes, published from 1727 to 1735, as well as a single folio (in 1730) of corrections to the first edition.\n\nThe \"Hague edition\" was published from 1737 to 1745 in \"ten closely-printed folio volumes\". The first nine reprinted the London edition, with the tenth combining Paul de Rapin's French-language synopsis and an index to the \"Foedera\". Rapin's text had been translated into English in 1733.\n\nThe Record Commission in 1800 proposed a \"Supplement and Continuation\" to the \"Foedera\"; in 1809 it decided instead on a complete revision. Seven parts were prepared before the project was abandoned owing to dissatisfaction with the editing. Six parts in three volumes were published from 1816 to 1830, and the seventh in 1869, along with miscellaneous notes. The work was thus revised up to the year 1383. A three-volume English-language summary and index of the complete \"Foedera\" followed. The Victoria County History guide recommends citing the Record Commission (RC) edition where available and the Hague edition otherwise.\n\nRymer died on 14 December 1713, and was buried four days later in St Clement Danes Church in the Strand. He apparently left no immediate family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51444658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51444658", "title": "Timeline of e-commerce", "text": "Timeline of e-commerce\n\nThis page is a timeline of e-commerce. Major launches, milestones and other major events are included.\n\n"}
{"id": "45094392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45094392", "title": "Timeline of the presidency of Maithripala Sirisena", "text": "Timeline of the presidency of Maithripala Sirisena\n\nThe following is a timeline of the Presidency of Maithripala Sirisena from his first announcement as presidential candidate in November 2014 to the present. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894472", "title": "Turn of the century", "text": "Turn of the century\n\nTurn of the century, in its broadest sense, refers to the transition from one century to another. The term is most often used to indicate a distinctive time period either before or after the beginning of a century or both before and after.\n\nWhere no specific century is stated, the term usually refers to the most recent transition of centuries.\n\nIn British English the phrase the 'turn of the nineteenth century' refers to the years immediately preceding and immediately following 1801, the 'turn of the twentieth century' to the years surrounding 1901, and so on.\n\nIn American English it is not so clear cut. According to the \"Chicago Manual of Style\" online Q&A, there is no common agreement as to the meaning of the phrase \"turn of the \"n\"-th century.\" For instance, if a statement describes an event as taking place \"at the turn of the 18th century,\" it could refer to a period around the year 1701 or around 1800, that is, the beginning or end of that century. As such, they recommend using only \"turn of the century,\" and only in a context that makes clear which transition is meant. \"Turn of the century\" commonly meant the transition from the 19th century to the 20th century; however, as the generations living at the end of the 20th century survived into the 21st century, the specific number of the referenced century became necessary to avoid confusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "20503180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20503180", "title": "Uldis Ģērmanis", "text": "Uldis Ģērmanis\n\nUldis Ģērmanis (4 October 1915 – 19 December 1997) was a Latvian historian, writer and publicist born in Novaya Ladoga, Russian Empire. His father was Jānis Ģermanis, and his family returned to the newly independent Latvia in 1919.\n\nHe taught history at the University of Latvia in Riga from 1943 and obtained his master's degree. During World War II, he was mobilised to the Latvian Legion and served in the 19th. waffen grenadier division of the SS as a military reporter. A few days before the German capitulation, he emigrated to Sweden, where he settled in Solna. In 1974, he received his doctorate in history from the University of Stockholm.\n\nĢērmanis was, since 1935, a lifelong member of the Latvian student fraternity Fraternitas Livonica. His speciality was modern Latvian history, especially of the Soviet Union and the Latvian Riflemen. His ground-breaking work on Jukums Vācietis and the Latvian Riflemen's role in the Bolshevik Revolution paved the way for further research on this subject by other Latvian émigré historians, notably the early works of Andrew Ezergailis.\n\nHis book \"Zili stikli, zaļi ledi\" (Blue glass, green ice; 1968) describes his experience researching the story of Vācietis. Ģērmanis was one of the rare émigré Latvians allowed access to primary sources in the Latvian SSR at the time. In the book, he describes the suspicion he was met with by both the Soviet Latvian authorities, and by his fellow émigrés, who questioned his motives for researching the history of pro-Bolshevik Latvians.\n\nIn 1958, Ģērmanis living in exile completed \"\"The Latvian Saga\", which presents Latvian history, but reads like a novel. As the Latvian Embassy in the USA writes on their homepage: \"It describes the people, powers and events that made Latvia what it is today, and puts it all in a broader European context...\", \"...it inspired several generations of Latvians to dedicate their lives to the restoration of Latvia's independence in 1991\"\". In 2007 the eleventh edition was issued in an English version and the works of Ģērmanis are becoming increasingly popular in his native country as well.\n\nHis lecture in Toronto, in 1988, about \"current events\" in the Soviet Union, is considered by many to be the best analysis of the situation at the time. Video recording of the lecture (in Latvian) can be accessed via internet on daugavasvanagi.ca\n\nUldis Ģērmanis was elected a member of the Latvian Academy of Sciences in 1992 and awarded the Order of the Three Stars in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "33208287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33208287", "title": "Via Regia Lusatiae Superioris", "text": "Via Regia Lusatiae Superioris\n\nThe High Land Road (also Army Road or Salt Road) lat. \"via regia Lusatiae superioris\", or \"strata regia\", was a trade route and was one of the Ancient roads. It was a part of the Via Regia, which continued west as far as the Rhine.\n\nOver several centuries the road was, along with the Low Road to the north, one of the most important transport links from Middle Germany to Silesia and east Poland. Like other Reichsstraße it was under protection e.g. of local regents. The Via Regia was also significant as a route to Santiago de Compostela from the east.\n\nThe road went through Oberlausitz, from Halle/Saale via Eilenburg or Leipzig-Grimma to Oschatz, Großenhain, Königsbrück, Kamenz, Bautzen, Löbau, Görlitz or Zittau, Lauban, Naumburg, Bunzlau, Haynau, Liegnitz, Neumarkt to Breslau. It had continuations east to Krakow and west from Leipzig or Halle through Thuringia to Frankfurt.\n"}
{"id": "20461477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20461477", "title": "Walddeutsche", "text": "Walddeutsche\n\nWalddeutsche ( (\"Forest Germans\") or \"Taubdeutsche\" (\"Deaf Germans\"); (\"deaf-mutes\", a pun)), is the name for a group of people, mostly of German origin, who settled during the 14th-17th century on the territory of present-day Sanockie Pits, Poland, a region which was previously only sparsely inhabited because the land was difficult to farm.\n\nThe term \"Walddeutsche\" - coined by the Polish historians Marcin Bielski, 1531, Szymon Starowolski 1632, Bishop Ignacy Krasicki and Wincenty Pol - also sometimes refers to Germans living between Wisłoka and the San River part of the West Carpathian Plateau and the Central Beskidian Piedmont in Poland.\n\nThe Polish term \"Głuchoniemcy\" is a sort of pun; it means \"deaf-mutes\", but sounds like \"forest Germans\": \"Niemcy\", Polish for \"Germans\", is derived from \"niemy\" (\"mute\", unable to talk comprehensibly, i.e. in Slavic), and \"głuchy\" (\"deaf\", i.e. \"unable to communicate\") sounds similar to \"głusz\" \"wood\".\n\nIn the 14th century a German settlement called Hanshof existed in the area. The Church of the Assumption of Holy Mary and St. Michael's Archangel in Haczów (Poland), the oldest wooden Gothic temple in Europe, was erected in the 14th century and was added to the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in 2003.\n\nGermans settled in the territory of the Kingdom of Poland (territory of present-day Subcarpathian Voivodeship) from the 14th to 16th centuries (\"see Ostsiedlung\"), mostly after the region returned to Polish sphere of influence in 1340, when Casimir III of Poland took the Czerwień towns.\n\nMarcin Bielski states that Bolesław I Chrobry settled some Germans in the region to defend the borders against Hungary and Kievan Rus' but the arrivals were ill-suited to their task and turned to farming. Maciej Stryjkowski mentions German peasants near Przeworsk, Przemyśl, Sanok, and Jarosław, describing them as good farmers. \n\nSome Germans were attracted by kings seeking specialists in various trades, such as craftsmen and miners. They usually settled in newer market and mining settlements. The main settlement areas were in the vicinity of Krosno and some language islands in the Pits and the Rzeszów regions. The settlers in the Pits region were known as \"Uplander Sachsen\". Until approximately the 15th century, the ruling classes of most cities in present-day Beskidian Piedmont consisted almost exclusively of Germans.\nThe Beskidian Germans underwent Polonization in the latter half of the 17th and the beginning of the 18th century.\n\nAccording to Wacław Maciejowski, writing in 1858, the people did not understand German but called themselves Głuchoniemcy. Wincenty Pol wrote in 1869 that their attire was similar to that of the Hungarian and Transylvanian Germans and that their main occupations were farming and weaving. He stated that in some areas the people were of Swedish origin, however, they all spoke flawlessly in a Lesser Poland dialect of Polish. In 1885, Józef Szujski wrote that the Gluchoniemcy spoke only Polish, but there were traces of a variety of original languages which showed that, when they arrived, the term \"Niemiec\" was applied to \"everyone\". In the modern Polish language, \"Niemiec\" refers to Germans, however, in earlier centuries, it was sometimes also used in reference to Hungarians, possibly due to similarity with the word \"niemy\" or plural \"niemi\" for \"mute\" or \"dumb\".\n\nImportant cities of this region include Pilzno, Brzostek, Biecz, Gorlice, Ropczyce, Wielopole Skrzyńskie, Frysztak, Jasło, Krosno, Czudec, Rzeszów, Łańcut, Tyczyn, Brzozów, Jaćmierz, Rymanów, Przeworsk, Jarosław, Kańczuga, Przemyśl, Dynów, Brzozów, and Sanok.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51396529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51396529", "title": "Xia, Shang, Zhou Dynasties: from Myths to Historical Facts", "text": "Xia, Shang, Zhou Dynasties: from Myths to Historical Facts\n\nXia, Shang, Zhou Dynasties: from Myths to Historical Facts is a book by a Taiwanese history professor Olga Gorodetskaya. It touches upon several predominant theories regarding Ancient China's earliest dynasties, namely Xia dynasty, Shang dynasty and Zhou dynasty, and tries to present archaeological evidence that those theories are in fact myths originated in early Chinese historical works, which resemble hagiographies and have little basis in reality on the ground. The book and as a result its author are a subject of considerable controversy within the Sinological academia, especially so within the People's Republic of China.;\n"}
{"id": "41798604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41798604", "title": "Ángel Iturriaga Barco", "text": "Ángel Iturriaga Barco\n\nÁngel Iturriaga Barco (Logroño, 1974) is a Spanish writer and historian, professor in Universidad Internacional de La Rioja (UNIR). He is a doctor in contemporary history with a thesis named \"El poder político y social en la historia del FC Barcelona\". He is the author of several football history books. Among them are the \"Diccionario de jugadores del FC Barcelona\" (2010), the \"Diccionario de técnicos y directivos del FC Barcelona\" (2011) and the \"Diccionario de jugadores de la selección española de fútbol\" (2013).\n\nIn October 2013 he published biographical novel \"Paulino\" (Edicions Saldonar) with David Valero. The two authors bring up the figure of Paulino Alcántara, known for his 369 goals in 257 games. \"It was necessary to make a biography of a great sports star like Paulino because it is one of the first superstars of the sport and the best Asian footballer of all time\", stated the two authors.\n\nHe now writes for Grup 14, an organisation dedicated to the improvement of Futbol Club Barcelona with the collaboration of all its supporters throughout the world.\n\n\n"}
