{"id": "49092157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49092157", "title": "Against the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States", "text": "Against the Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States\n\nAgainst The Grain: A Deep History of the Earliest States is a book (hardcover release August 2017) by James C. Scott that sets out to undermine what he calls the \"standard civilizational narrative\" that suggests humans chose to live settled lives based on intensive agriculture because this made people safer and more prosperous. Instead, he argues, people had to be forced to live in the early states, which were hierarchical, beset by malnutrition and disease, and often based on slavery. The book has been praised for re-opening some of the biggest questions in human history. A review in \"Science\" concludes that the book's thesis \"is fascinating and represents an alternative, nuanced, if somewhat speculative, scenario on how civilized society came into being.\"\n\nScott is among the world's most-cited political scientists. He spent much of his career studying South-East Asia, and producing books such as \"The Art of Not Being Governed\" and \"Seeing Like a State\". He has long been a critic of state power, having previously written on the subject of anarchism in works such as \"Two Cheers for Anarchism\". \"Against the Grain\" returns to pre-history and discusses the conditions under which the first people stopped living as hunter-gatherers and moved to live in permanent settlements based on agriculture and administered by an elite. Scott challenges the conventional narrative that this change was welcome and voluntary for most participants.\n\nScott describes the gradual process of transforming their environment that was undertaken by early humans. He begins by recounting the impact of mankind's use of fire, calling it \"a species monopoly and a trump card\" and detailing its desirability for its capacity to reduce the radius of a meal by concentrating foodstuffs in a smaller area around human encampments. Scott describes the beginnings of sedentism in wetlands prior to the cultivation of cereal grains. He then tackles the 4,000-year \"gap\" between the cultivation of domesticated grains and the emergence agricultural societies, claiming that it was in the best interests of early people to supplement their existing diets with cereal grains and other domesticated crops rather than to rely upon crops exclusively. He thinks adaptability in subsistence strategies was a better option than early agriculture for our ancestors.\n\nScott's point in this chapter is that humans domesticated the planet more extensively than taming cattle and planting crops, and that this had deep consequences. He examines the changes that mankind has brought to its environment by being an artificial natural selection of sorts, to bring out plant types that are now unrecognizable from their progenitors and are also unable to survive without human care. We also domesticated animals by casting out those with undesired characteristics and cultivating that which pleases us. This changed animals both in behavior and physiologically, making them permanently docile and un-reactive, while also having smaller brains. These changes have negative effects upon the animals themselves, though they do result in a positive effect in output for their domesticators.\n\nScott then turns to what he calls \"Human Parallels,\" ways in which human beings themselves might have been transformed by domestication. From the altered bone structures of women who were forced into agricultural labor to general size difference and proof of nutrition deficits in post-agriculture mankind, Scott argues that humans have bred their own irreversible change. Scott speculates that we may ourselves have become more docile and less aware of our surroundings. He also argues that the needs of domesticated plants and animals almost make us slaves to their meticulously specific and daily needs.\n\nIn this chapter, Scott emphasizes the idea of Agro-Pastoralism, i.e. \"plowed fields and domestic animals.\" He questions why a hunter-gatherer, whom he believes has a relatively good and fulfilling life, would turn to this. Subsistence farming is mundane and contains more drudgery than the hunter and gatherer societies. He then asserts the reason as to why these societies transformed into agro-pastoral societies was due to coercion by the state. He cites research on an archaeological site in Mesopotamia named Abu Hureyra. Scott concurs with other scholars in the field that, \"'No hunter-gatherers occupying a productive locality with a range of wild foods able to provide for all seasons are likely to have started cultivating their caloric staples willingly.'\" Finally, Scott also points out that early states were beset by zoonoses, i.e. disease spread from animals to humans, that results in high morbidity rates.\n\nScott explains in this chapter that many apparent achievements attributed to the state were actually present before state formation. Scott states that \"If civilization is judged an achievement of the state, and if archaic civilization means sedentism, farming, the domus, irrigation, and towns, then there is something radically wrong with the historical order. All of these human achievements of the Neolithic were in place well before we encounter anything like a state in Mesopotamia.\" Scott then gives his definition of a state, emphasizing the indicators \"that point to territoriality and a specialized state apparatus: walls, tax collection, and officials.\" The Sumerian city of Uruk is an example. Scott cites that in Uruk, early agriculture required a very difficult lifestyle. Many people had to be forced by the state to do hard labor, for instance, creating irrigation channels. As a result of this, warfare between rival polities was very prevalent during this period in order to gain slave labor or to take over areas that had already been irrigated.\nScott goes so far as to claim that \"Grains Make States.\" The introduction of a staple food source allowed the state to heavily tax the people. Grains, especially wheat, became the best way to tax the people. Grains like wheat or rice are more valuable per weight than other sources of food, and much easier to transport. As he puts it, \"The key to the nexus between grains and states lies, I believe, in the fact that only the cereal grains can serve as a basis for taxation: visible, divisible, assessable, storable, transportable, and 'rationable.' Other crops--legumes, tubers, and starch plans--have some of these desirable state-adapted qualities, but none has all of these advantages.\" Making people pay taxes in grain forced people to shift away from other sources of food that they may have preferred.\n\nScott describes early states as population machines. Rulers were focused on the productivity and number of \"domesticated\" subjects. The early states had to collect people, settle them near the center of power, and force them to create a surplus in excess of their own needs. He also notes that since early states were full of disease, population tended to fall unless people could be replaced by new slaves.\n\nIn early states this population control often took the form of forcefully settling peoples on fertile land, and then preventing them from fleeing to avoid bondage and labour. One piece of evidence Scott cites is the earliest legal codes, stating that they were \"filled with such injunctions\" intended to \"discourage and punish flight.\" One code that Scott cites specifically is the Code of Hammurabi. This contains six laws intended to discourage the flight and escape of slaves.\n\nThe end product of this system was that the states with the most people were often the most powerful. This created compelling incentives for early states to try and increase their population and prevent the \"leakage\" of the population through bondage and war.\n\nScott sees early states as liable to undermine the conditions for their own existence. Some self-inflicted causes for this vulnerability were \"climate change, resource depletion, disease, warfare, and migration to areas of greater abundance.\" For instance, areas upstream would be logged so that the logs could be floated down to the state center, but this could lead to flooding in the spring. The very first state-builders knew no prior examples that would have warned against such problems. Regardless of the causes, Scott's view is that the archaeological evidence suggests that early human communities were constantly collapsing, dispersing, coming back together and collapsing again. Scott believes that state collapse has been viewed as bad by academics due to the loss of cultural complexity, but in fact he thinks it may have been good for the majority of people involved. Building on his critique of the State from earlier chapters, Scott asserts that living in early states meant you were subjected to large scale warfare, and slavery, and that the historical periods following state collapse may have brought a higher standard of living, and freedom. To support this view, he highlights how state collapse lead to a dispersion of the population resulting in easier access to food as well as freedom from the brutality of the state and the need to produce a surplus to sustain the elite.\n\nScott views \"barbarian\" raiders as having a symbiotic relationship with the early states. They raided the grain centers, but also traded many goods from more remote areas such as metals or animal parts. Scott thus theorizes that up until 400 or so years ago humanity was in the \"Golden Age of the Barbarians.\" This was an era when the majority of the worlds population had never seen a tax collector. Part of this was due to the existence of \"Barbarian Zones,\" i.e. great tracts of land where the state found it either impossible or prohibitively difficult to extend its rule. Places like \"mountains and steppes,\" as well as \"uncleared dense forest, swamps, marshes, river deltas, fens, moors, deserts, heath, arid wastes, and even the sea itself.\" Not only did this place a great many people out of the reach of the state but also made them significant military threats to the state's power.\n\nThe traditional narrative is that some \"barbarian\" communities became sedentary and then developed into early states and civilization. Meanwhile, those who did not undergo this transition remained \"barbarian.\" Scott argues that the history of \"barbarians\" and the state is much more fluid, that in fact some people \"reverted\" back to being barbarians precisely because of the failure and excesses of the state. This implies that civilization and state making was not the inexorable march of progress but rather a brutal project that people avoided when possible.\n\nMultiple outlets have reviewed \"Against the Grain\". Scott himself writes that history is \"the most subversive discipline\" and archaeologist Barry Cunliffe describes this book as \"history as it should be written.\" Steven Mithen writes that Scott's \"account of the deep past doesn’t purport to be definitive, but it is surely more accurate than the one we’re used to, and it implicitly exposes the flaws in contemporary political ideas that ultimately rest on a narrative of human progress and on the ideal of the city/nation-state.\"\n\nSamuel Moyn offers a mixed review. Moyn notes that Scott's work has appealed to many critics of the status quo, from the Marxist left to the libertarian right. Moyn praises Scott and calls the book \"sparkling\" but wonders whether Scott is judging the state by standards make sense to modern residents of stable states but would confuse the hunter-gatherers whose passing Scott seems to mourn. Moyn writes: “That Scott presents as his major finding that eons separated the development of cultivation and the rise of the state not only cuts against any conclusion that the pathways into state bondage were inevitable; it also goes far to undermine Scott’s entire outlook.” Moyn asserts that Scott’s worldview prevents him from seeing the benefits of the state, or the state’s ability to change under democratic pressure. Moyn thinks that we owe the ideals Scott uses to harshly judge the early state—ideals like equality and liberty—to the stability and prosperity that states make possible. Moyn also thinks Scott fails to back up some of the core claims in the book, e.g. \"Scott’s vague suggestions of the “egalitarianism” of nonstate peoples—and especially, in his new book, of our hunting-and-gathering ancestors—are never seriously defended.\"\n\nWriting in the libertarian Cato Journal, Jason Kuznicki notes that Scott's \"highly unconventional\" account \"probably resonates with a certain strain of libertarian, even as it infuriates many others.\" Kuznicki cautions that this should not be taken to imply that current-day agriculture is bad: \"But our belief that agriculture in the present day is a blessing to humankind, which undoubtedly it is, does not commit us to insisting that agriculture, in all its forms, in all times and places, has always been a boon to everyone. Nor does the view that agriculture began as a curse commit us to believing that agriculture remains a curse today. Reality is allowed to be complex like that.\" Overall Kuznicki thinks the book raises questions that are still of great importance, concluding that \"the constant interplay between the present and the distant past is one of the most appealing aspects of this book.\"\n\nWriting in the journal Public Choice, Ennio Piano asserts that Against the Grain will reinforce Scott's reputation as a leading scholar of stateless societies. Piano sees links not only to the disciplines of history and anthropology, but also to economics, especially debates over the extent of coercion involved in creating economic systems.\n"}
{"id": "4464057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4464057", "title": "Alan Orr Anderson", "text": "Alan Orr Anderson\n\nAlan Orr Anderson (1879–1958) was a Scottish historian and compiler. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh. The son of Rev. John Anderson and Ann Masson, he was born in 1879. He was educated at Royal High School, Edinburgh, and the University of Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1908, after five years of work sponsored by the Carnegie Trust, he published \"Scottish Annals from English Chroniclers\", a reasonably comprehensive compilation of sources about Scottish history before 1286 written either in England or by chroniclers born in England. Fourteen years later, he was able to publish the 2-volume work entitled \"Early Sources of Scottish History, A.D. 500 to 1286\", a similar but larger collection of sources, this time taken from non-English (mostly Gaelic) material. To a certain extent, the latter work overlapped with the compilations published by Skene's \"Chronicles of the Picts and Scots\" (Edinburgh, 1867), but both of Anderson's compilations differed from Skene's in that all were translated into English.\n\nYears of reading difficult manuscripts in dull light were perhaps the cause of Anderson's failing eyesight, and for a large period of time, he relied on his graduate student (subsequently his wife) Marjorie Cunningham to do much of the readings. He died 9 December 1958.\n\nToday, most scholars working in early Scottish history regard Anderson's three volumes as among their most essential scholarly possessions. As a result, much of the course of early Scottish historiography was set by what Anderson chose to publish or chose not to publish. In 1990 and 1991, the compilations were reissued by the Stamford-based organisation Paul Watkins Publishing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21333659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21333659", "title": "Alice Stopford Green", "text": "Alice Stopford Green\n\nAlice Stopford Green (30 May 1847 – 28 May 1929) was an Irish historian and nationalist.\n\nShe was born Alice Sophia Amelia Stopford in Kells, County Meath. Her father Edward Adderley Stopford was Rector of Kells and Archdeacon of Meath. Her paternal grandfather was Edward Stopford, the Church of Ireland Bishop of Meath, and she was a cousin of Stopford Brooke and Mother Mary Clare. From 1874 to 1877 she lived in London where she met the historian John Richard Green. They were married in Chester on 14 June 1877. He died in 1883. John Morley published her first historical work \"Henry II\" in 1888.\n\nIn the 1890s she became interested in Irish history and the nationalist movement as a result of her friendship with John Francis Taylor. She was vocal in her opposition to English colonial policy in South Africa during the Boer Wars and supported Roger Casement's Congo Reform movement. Her 1908 book \"The Making of Ireland and its Undoing\" argued for the sophistication and richness of the native Irish civilisation. Stopford Green was active in efforts to make the prospect of Home Rule more palatable to Ulster Unionists. She was closely involved in the Howth gun-running.\n\nShe moved to Dublin in 1918 where her house at 90 St Stephen's Green became an intellectual centre. She supported the pro-Treaty side in the Irish Civil War and was among the first nominees to the newly formed Seanad Éireann in 1922, where she served as an independent member until her death in 1929.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18210026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18210026", "title": "Ancient Warfare (magazine)", "text": "Ancient Warfare (magazine)\n\nAncient Warfare is a glossy Dutch bi-monthly military history magazine.\n\n\"Ancient Warfare\" was started in 2007. It is published by the Dutch publishing company Karwansaray. The magazine was founded by Jasper Oorthuys, who now serves as managing director and editor-in-chief. The current editor is archaeologist Josho Brouwers.\n\nMost of the magazine's feature articles focus on a central theme per issue. These include articles on a specific general, campaign or more abstract phenomenon such as sieges. Each issue usually starts off with a historical introduction to the theme. The introduction is usually followed by an article that delves into relevant sources for the theme, such as a historical narrative or an archaeological source. The theme is then fleshed out by articles on warriors, battles and generals that fit that issue's theme. Among the authors are well-known specialists like Bob Bennett, Duncan B. Campbell, Ross Cowan, Lukas de Blois, Stephen English, Adrian Murdoch, Joseph Pietrykowski, Jona Lendering, and Mike Roberts.\n\nThe magazine also includes news and letters from readers, as well as reviews of relevant books, games, models, and museums. The illustrations include original artwork, maps and photographs of artifacts. Online free features of the magazine include the editor's blog and a podcast which is published to coincide with the magazine themes.\n\nOther spin-offs were specials on the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest and the nature of the Roman \"centuria\". Since 2012, the yearly special is published in the form of a hardcover book. The first was \"Edge of Empire\" (2012), a reworked English translation of an originally Dutch book by Jona Lendering and Arjan Bosman on the Roman occupation of the Low Countries. The second was \"Henchmen of Ares: Warriors and Warfare in Early Greece\" (2013) written by editor Josho Brouwers and based on his PhD dissertation on Early Greek warfare.\n\nThe magazine is registered as .\n"}
{"id": "26513686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26513686", "title": "Ancient higher-learning institutions", "text": "Ancient higher-learning institutions\n\nA variety of ancient higher-learning institutions were developed in many cultures to provide institutional frameworks for scholarly activities. These ancient centres were sponsored and overseen by courts; by religious institutions, which sponsored cathedral schools, monastic schools, and madrasas; by scientific institutions, such as museums, hospitals, and observatories; and by individual scholars. They are to be distinguished from the Western-style university, an autonomous organization of scholars that originated in medieval Europe and has been adopted in other regions in modern times (see list of oldest universities in continuous operation).\n\nThe Platonic Academy (sometimes referred to as the University of Athens), founded ca. 387 BC in Athens, Greece, by the philosopher Plato, lasted 916 years (until AD 529) with interruptions. It was emulated during the Renaissance by the Florentine Platonic Academy, whose members saw themselves as following Plato's tradition.\n\nAround 335 BC, Plato's successor Aristotle founded the Peripatetic school, the students of which met at the Lyceum gymnasium in Athens. The school ceased in 86 BC during the famine, siege and sacking of Athens by Sulla.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, the Museion in Alexandria (which included the Library of Alexandria) became the leading research institute for science and technology from which many Greek innovations sprang. The engineer Ctesibius (fl. 285–222 BC) may have been its first head. It was suppressed and burned between AD 216 and 272, and the library was destroyed between 272 and 391.\n\nThe reputation of these Greek institutions was such that at least four central modern educational terms derive from them: the academy, the lyceum, the gymnasium and the museum.\n\nThe Pandidakterion of Constantinople, founded as an institution of higher learning in 425, educated graduates to take on posts of authority in the imperial service or within the Church. It was reorganized as a corporation of students in 849 by the regent Bardas of emperor Michael III, is considered by some to be the earliest institution of higher learning with some of the characteristics we associate today with a university (research and teaching, auto-administration, academic independence, et cetera). If a university is defined as \"an institution of higher learning\" then it is preceded by several others, including the Academy that it was founded to compete with and eventually replaced. If the original meaning of the word is considered \"a corporation of students\" then this could be the first example of such an institution. The Preslav Literary School and Ohrid Literary School were the two major literary schools of the First Bulgarian Empire.\n\nIn Western Europe during the Early Middle Ages, bishops sponsored cathedral schools and monasteries sponsored monastic schools, chiefly dedicated to the education of clergy. The earliest evidence of a European episcopal school is that established in Visigothic Spain at the Second Council of Toledo in 527. These early episcopal schools, with a focus on an apprenticeship in religious learning under a scholarly bishop, have been identified in Spain and in about twenty towns in Gaul during the 6th and 7th centuries.\n\nIn addition to these episcopal schools, there were monastic schools which educated monks and nuns, as well as future bishops, at a more advanced level. Around the turn of the 12th and 13th centuries, some of them developed into autonomous universities. A notable example is when the University of Paris grew out of the schools associated with the Cathedral of Notre Dame, the Monastery of Ste. Geneviève, and the Abbey of St. Victor.\n\nMajor Buddhist monasteries (\"mahaviharas\"), notably those at Pushpagiri, Nalanda, and Taxila, included schools that were some of the primary institutions of higher learning in ancient India.\n\nThe school in Pushpagiri was established in the 3rd century AD as present Odisha, India. As of 2007, the ruins of this Mahavihara had not yet been fully excavated. Consequently, much of the Mahavihara's history remains unknown. Of the three Mahavihara campuses, Lalitgiri in the district of Cuttack is the oldest. Iconographic analysis indicates that Lalitgiri had already been established during the Shunga period of the 2nd century BC, making it one of the oldest Buddhist establishments in the world. The Chinese traveller Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang), who visited it in AD 639, as \"Puphagiri Mahavihara\", as well as in medieval Tibetan texts. However, unlike Takshila and Nalanda, the ruins of Pushpagiri were not discovered until 1995, when a lecturer from a local college first stumbled upon the site. The task of excavating Pushpagiri's ruins, stretching over of land, was undertaken by the Odisha Institute of Maritime and South East Asian Studies between 1996 and 2006. It is now being carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).\nThe Nagarjunakonda inscriptions also mention about this learning center.\n\nNalanda was established in the fifth century AD in Bihar, India and survived until circa 1200 AD. It was devoted to Buddhist studies, but it also trained students in fine arts, medicine, mathematics, astronomy, politics and the art of war.\n\nThe center had eight separate compounds, ten temples, meditation halls, classrooms, lakes and parks. It had a nine-story library where monks meticulously copied books and documents so that individual scholars could have their own collections. It had dormitories for students, housing 10,000 students in the school’s heyday and providing accommodation for 2,000 professors. Nalanda attracted pupils and scholars from Sri Lanka, Korea, Japan, China, Tibet, Indonesia, Persia and Turkey, who left accounts of the center.\n\nIn 2014 a modern Nalanda University was launched in nearby Rajgir.\n\nAncient Taxila or Takshashila, in ancient Gandhara (modern-day Pakistan), was an early Hindu and Buddhist centre of learning. According to scattered references that were only fixed a millennium later, it may have dated back to at least the fifth century BC. Some scholars date Takshashila's existence back to the sixth century BC. The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was most likely still provided on an individualistic basis.\n\nTakshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the fifth century AD.\n\nIt became a noted centre of learning at least several centuries BC, and continued to attract students until the destruction of the city in the fifth century AD. Takshashila is perhaps best known because of its association with Chanakya. The famous treatise Arthashastra (Sanskrit for The knowledge of Economics) by Chanakya, is said to have been composed in Takshashila itself. Chanakya (or Kautilya), the Maurya Emperor Chandragupta and the Ayurvedic healer Charaka studied at Taxila.\n\nGenerally, a student entered Takshashila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.\n\nVikramashila was one of the two most important centres of learning in India during the Pala Empire, along with Nalanda. Vikramashila was established by King Dharmapala (783 to 820) in response to a supposed decline in the quality of scholarship at Nalanda. Atisha, the renowned pandita, is sometimes listed as a notable abbot. It was destroyed by the forces of Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji around 1200.\n\nVikramashila is known to us mainly through Tibetan sources, especially the writings of Tāranātha, the Tibetan monk historian of the 16th–17th centuries.\n\nVikramashila was one of the largest Buddhist universities, with more than one hundred teachers and about one thousand students. It produced eminent scholars who were often invited by foreign countries to spread Buddhist learning, culture and religion. The most distinguished and eminent among all was Atisha Dipankara, a founder of the Sarma traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. Subjects like philosophy, grammar, metaphysics, Indian logic etc. were taught here, but the most important branch of learning was tantrism.\n\nFurther centers include Telhara in Bihar (probably older than Nalanda), Odantapuri, in Bihar (circa 550 - 1040), Somapura, in Bangladesh (from the Gupta period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Sharada Peeth, Pakistan, Jagaddala Mahavihara, in Bengal (from the Pala period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Nagarjunakonda, in Andhra Pradesh, Vikramashila, in Bihar (\"circa\" 800-1040), Valabhi, in Gujarat (from the Maitrak period to the Arab raids), Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh (eighth century to modern times), Kanchipuram, in Tamil Nadu, Manyakheta, in Karnataka, Mahavihara, Abhayagiri Vihāra, and Jetavanaramaya, in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn China, the ancient imperial academy known as Taixue was established by the Han Dynasty. It was intermittently inherited by succeeding Chinese dynasties up until the Qing dynasty, in some of which the name was changed to Guozixue or Guozijian. Peking University (Imperial University of Peking) established in 1898 is regarded as the replacement of Taixue. By 725 AD, Shuyuan or Academies of Classical Learning were private learning institutions established during the medieval Chinese Tang dynasty. In Japan, Daigakuryo was founded in 671 and Ashikaga Gakko was founded in the 9th century and restored in 1432. In Korea, Taehak was founded in 372 and Gukhak was established in 682. Seowons were private institutions established during the Joseon dynasty which combined functions of a Confucian shrine and a preparatory school. The Seonggyungwan was founded by in 1398 to offer prayers and memorials to Confucius and his disciples, and to promote the study of the Confucian canon. It was the successor to Gukjagam from the Goryeo Dynasty (992). It was reopened as a private Western-style university in 1946.\n\nThe Academy of Gondishapur was established in the 3rd century AD under the rule of Sassanid kings and continued its scholarly activities up to four centuries after Islam came to Iran. It was an important medical centre of the 6th and 7th centuries and a prominent example of higher education model in pre-Islam Iran. When the Platonic Academy in Athens was closed in 529, some of its pagan scholars went to Gundishahpur, although they returned within a year to Byzantium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332306", "title": "Anthony Giddens", "text": "Anthony Giddens\n\nAnthony Giddens, Baron Giddens (born 18 January 1938) is a British sociologist who is known for his theory of structuration and his holistic view of modern societies. He is considered to be one of the most prominent modern sociologists, the author of at least 34 books, published in at least 29 languages, issuing on average more than one book every year. In 2007, Giddens was listed as the fifth most-referenced author of books in the humanities.\n\nFour notable stages can be identified in his academic life. The first one involved outlining a new vision of what sociology is, presenting a theoretical and methodological understanding of that field, based on a critical reinterpretation of the classics. His major publications of that era include \"Capitalism and Modern Social Theory\" (1971) and \"The Class Structure of the Advanced Societies\" (1973). In the second stage Giddens developed the theory of structuration, an analysis of agency and structure, in which primacy is granted to neither. His works of that period, such as \"New Rules of Sociological Method\" (1976), \"Central Problems in Social Theory\" (1979) and \"The Constitution of Society\" (1984), brought him international fame on the sociological arena. The third stage of Giddens's academic work was concerned with modernity, globalisation and politics, especially the impact of modernity on social and personal life. This stage is reflected by his critique of postmodernity, and discussions of a new \"utopian-realist\" third way in politics, visible in the \"Consequences of Modernity\" (1990), \"Modernity and Self-Identity\" (1991), \"The Transformation of Intimacy\" (1992), \"Beyond Left and Right\" (1994) and \"The Third Way: The Renewal of Social Democracy\" (1998). Giddens' ambition was both to recast social theory and to re-examine our understanding of the development and trajectory of modernity.\n\nIn the most recent stage, Giddens has turned his attention to a more concrete range of problems relevant to the evolution of world society – environmental issues, focussing especially upon debates about climate change, analysed in successive editions of his book, \"The Politics of Climate Change\" (2009); the role and nature of the European Union in \"Turbulent and Mighty Continent: What Future for Europe?\" (2014); and, in a series of lectures and speeches, the nature and consequences of the digital revolution. \n\nGiddens served as Director of the London School of Economics 1997–2003, where he is now Emeritus Professor at the Department of Sociology. He is a Life Fellow of King’s College, Cambridge.\n\nGiddens was born and raised in Edmonton, London, and grew up in a lower-middle-class family, son of a clerk with London Transport; he attended Minchenden School. He was the first member of his family to go to university. Giddens received his undergraduate academic degree (in joint sociology and psychology) at the University of Hull in 1959, followed by a master's degree at the London School of Economics. He later gained a PhD at King's College, Cambridge. In 1961, he started working at the University of Leicester where he taught social psychology. At Leicester — considered to be one of the seedbeds of British sociology — he met Norbert Elias and began to work on his own theoretical position. In 1969, he was appointed to a position at the University of Cambridge, where he later helped create the Social and Political Sciences Committee (SPS — now HSPS).\n\nGiddens worked for many years at Cambridge as a fellow of King's College and was eventually promoted to a full professorship in 1987. He is cofounder of Polity Press (1985). From 1997 to 2003, he was director of the London School of Economics and a member of the Advisory Council of the Institute for Public Policy Research. He was also an adviser to Tony Blair; it was Giddens' \"third way\" political approach that has been Tony Blair's guiding political idea. He has been a vocal participant in British political debates, supporting the centre-left Labour Party with media appearances and articles (many of which are published in the \"New Statesman\"). He was given a life peerage in June 2004, as Baron Giddens, of Southgate in the London Borough of Enfield and sits in the House of Lords for Labour. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Giddens also holds over 15 honorary degrees from various universities, including recently honorary degrees from Jagiellonian University (2014), the University of South Australia (2016), Goldsmiths, University of London (2016) and Lingnan University (Hong Kong) (2017).\n\nGiddens, the author of over 34 books and 200 articles, essays and reviews, has contributed and written about most notable developments in the area of social sciences, with the exception of research design and methods. He has written commentaries on most leading schools and figures and has used most sociological paradigms in both micro and macrosociology. His writings range from abstract, metatheoretical problems to very direct and 'down-to-earth' textbooks for students. His textbook, \"Sociology\", first published in 1988, is currently in its eighth edition. Finally, he is also known for his interdisciplinary approach: he has commented not only on the developments in sociology, but also in anthropology, archaeology, psychology, philosophy, history, linguistics, economics, social work and most recently, political science. In view of his knowledge and works, one may view much of his life's work as a form of 'grand synthesis' of sociological theory.\n\nBefore 1976, most of Giddens' writings offered critical commentary on a wide range of writers, schools and traditions. Giddens took a stance against the then-dominant structural functionalism (represented by Talcott Parsons), as well as criticising evolutionism and historical materialism. In \"Capitalism and Modern Social Theory\" (1971), he examined the work of Weber, Durkheim and Marx, arguing that despite their different approaches each was concerned with the link between capitalism and social life. Giddens emphasised the social constructs of power, modernity and institutions, defining sociology as: \n\nIn \"New Rules of Sociological Method\" (1976) (the title of which alludes to Durkheim's \"Rules of the Sociological Method\" of 1895), Giddens attempted to explain 'how sociology should be done' and addressed a long-standing divide between those theorists who prioritise 'macro level' studies of social life — looking at the 'big picture' of society — and those who emphasise the 'micro level' — what everyday life means to individuals. In \"New Rules...\" he noted that the functionalist approach, invented by Durkheim, treated society as a reality unto itself, not reducible to individuals. He rejected Durkheim's sociological positivism paradigm, which attempted to predict how societies operate, ignoring the meanings as understood by individuals. Giddens noted:\nHe contrasted Durkheim with Weber's approach — interpretative sociology — focused on understanding agency and motives of individuals. Giddens is closer to Weber than Durkheim, but in his analysis he rejects both of those approaches, stating that while society is not a collective reality, nor should the individual be treated as the central unit of analysis.\n\nRather he uses the logic of hermeneutic tradition (from interpretative sociology) to argue for the importance of agency in sociological theory, claiming that human social actors are always to some degree knowledgeable about what they are doing. Social order is therefore a result of some pre-planned social actions, not automatic evolutionary response. Sociologists, unlike natural scientists, have to interpret a social world which is already interpreted by the actors that inhabit it. According to Giddens there is a \"Duality of structure\" by which social practice, which is the principal unit of investigation, has both a structural and an agency-component. The structural environment constrains individual behaviour, but also makes it possible. He also noted the existence of a specific form of a social cycle: once sociological concepts are formed, they filter back into everyday world and change the way people think. Because social actors are reflexive and monitor the ongoing flow of activities and structural conditions, they adapt their actions to their evolving understandings. As a result, social scientific knowledge of society will actually change human activities. Giddens calls this two-tiered, interpretive and dialectical relationship between social scientific knowledge and human practices the \"double hermeneutic\".\n\nGiddens also stressed the importance of power, which is means to ends, and hence is directly involved in the actions of every person. Power, the transformative capacity of people to change the social and material world, is closely shaped by knowledge and space-time.\n\nIn \"New Rules...\" Giddens specifically wrote that:\n\nGiddens' theory of structuration explores the question of whether it is individuals or social forces that shape our social reality. He eschews extreme positions, arguing that although people are not entirely free to choose their own actions, and their knowledge is limited, they nonetheless are the agency which reproduces the social structure and leads to social change. His ideas find an echo in the philosophy of the modernist poet Wallace Stevens who suggests that we live in the tension between the shapes we take as the world acts upon us, and the ideas of order that our imagination imposes upon the world. Giddens writes that the connection between structure and action is a fundamental element of social theory, structure and agency are a duality that cannot be conceived of apart from one another and his main argument is contained in his expression \"duality of structure\". At a basic level, this means that people make society, but are at the same time constrained by it. Action and structure cannot be analysed separately, as structures are created, maintained and changed through actions, while actions are given meaningful form only through the background of the structure: the line of causality runs in both directions making it impossible to determine what is changing what. In Giddens own words (from \"New rules...\") :\n\nIn this regard he defines structures as consisting of rules and resources involving human action: the rules constrain the actions, the resources make it possible. He also differentiates between systems and structures. Systems display structural properties but are not structures themselves. He notes in his article \"Functionalism: après la lutte\" (1976) that:\n\nThis process of structures (re)producing systems is called structuration. Systems here mean to Giddens \"the situated activities of human agents\" (\"The Constitution of Society.\") and \"the patterning of social relations across space-time\" (ibid.). Structures are then \"...sets of rules and resources that individual actors draw upon in the practices that reproduce social systems’\" (\"Politics, Sociology and Social Theory\") and \"systems of generative rules and sets, implicated in the articulation of social systems\" (\"The Constitution of Society.\"), existing virtually \"out of time and out of space\" (\"New rules...\"). Structuration therefore means that relations that took shape in the structure, can exist \"out of time and place\": in other words, independent of the context in which they are created. An example is the relationship between a teacher and a student: when they come across each other in another context, say on the street, the hierarchy between them is still preserved.\n\nStructure can act as a constraint on action, but it also enables action by providing common frames of meaning. Consider the example of language: structure of language is represented by the rules of syntax that rule out certain combinations of words. But the structure also provides rules that allow new actions to occur, enabling us to create new, meaningful sentences. Structures should not be conceived as \"simply placing constrains upon human agency, but as enabling.\" (\"New rules...\") Giddens suggests that structures (traditions, institutions, moral codes, and other sets of expectations — established ways of doing things) are generally quite stable, but can be changed, especially through the unintended consequences of action, when people start to ignore them, replace them, or reproduce them differently.\n\nThus, actors (agents) employ the social rules appropriate to their culture, ones that they have learned through socialisation and experience. These rules together with the resources at their disposal are used in social interactions. Rules and resources employed in this manner are not deterministic, but are applied reflexively by knowledgeable actors, albeit that actors’ awareness may be limited to the specifics of their activities at any given time. Thus, the outcome of action is not totally predictable.\n\nStructuration is very useful in synthesising micro and macro issues. On a micro scale, one of individuals' internal sense of self and identity, consider the example of a family: we are increasingly free to choose our own mates and how to relate with them, which creates new opportunities but also more work, as the relationship becomes a reflexive project that has to be interpreted and maintained. Yet this micro-level change cannot be explained only by looking at the individual level as people did not spontaneously change their minds about how to live; neither can we assume they were directed to do so by social institutions and the state.\n\nOn a macro scale, one of the state and social organisations like multinational capitalist corporations, consider the example of globalization, which offers vast new opportunities for investment and development, but crises — like the Asian financial crisis — can affect the entire world, spreading far outside the local setting in which they first developed, and last but not least directly influences individuals. A serious explanation of such issues must lie somewhere within the network of macro and micro forces. These levels should not be treated as unconnected; in fact they have significant relation to one another.\n\nTo illustrate this relationship, Giddens discusses changing attitudes towards marriage in developed countries. He claims that any effort to explain this phenomenon solely in terms of micro or macro level causes will result in a circular cause and consequence. Social relationships and visible sexuality (micro-level change) are related to the decline of religion and the rise of rationality (macro-level change), but also with changes in the laws relating to marriage and sexuality (macro), change caused by different practices and changing attitudes on the level of everyday lives (micro). Practices and attitudes in turn can be affected by social movements (for example, women's liberation and egalitarianism), a macro-scale phenomena; but the movements usually grow out of everyday life grievances — a micro-scale phenomenon.\n\nAll of this is increasingly tied in with mass media, one of our main providers of information. The media do not merely reflect the social world but also actively shape it, being central to modern reflexivity. David Gauntlett writes in \"Media, Gender and Identity\" that:\nAnother example explored by Giddens is the emergence of romantic love, which Giddens (\"The Transformation of Intimacy\") links with the rise of the 'narrative of the self' type of self-identity: \"Romantic love introduced the idea of a narrative into an individual's life.\" Although history of sex clearly demonstrates that passion and sex are not modern phenomena, the discourse of romantic love is said to have developed from the late 18th century. Romanticism, the 18th and 19th century European macro-level cultural movement is responsible for the emergence of the novel — a relatively early form of mass media. The growing literacy and popularity of novels fed back into the mainstream lifestyle and the romance novel proliferated the stories of ideal romantic life narratives on a micro-level, giving the romantic love an important and recognized role in the marriage-type relationship.\n\nConsider also the transformation of intimacy. Giddens asserts that intimate social relationships have become 'democratised', so that the bond between partners – even within a marriage – has little to do with external laws, regulations or social expectations, but is based on the internal understanding between two people – a trusting bond based on emotional communication. Where such a bond ceases to exist, modern society is generally happy for the relationship to be dissolved. Thus we have 'a democracy of the emotions in everyday life' (\"Runaway World\", 1999).\n\nA democracy of the emotions – the democratising of everyday life – is of course an ideal, more or less approximated to in the diverse contexts of everyday life. There are many societies, cultures and contexts in which it remains far from reality - where sexual oppression is an everyday phenomenon. In \"The Transformation of Intimacy\" Giddens introduces the notion of ‘plastic sexuality’ – sexuality freed from an intrinsic connection with reproduction, and hence open to innovation and experimentation. What was once open only to elites becomes generalised with the advent of mass contraception: sexuality and identity become far more fluid than in the past. These changes are part and parcel of wider transformations affecting the self and self-identity. \n\nInevitably, Giddens concludes that all social change stems from a mixture of micro- and macro-level forces.\n\nGiddens says that in the post-traditional order, self-identity is reflexive. It is not a quality of a moment, but an account of a person's life. Giddens writes that\nMore than ever before we have access to information that allows us to reflect on the causes and consequences of our actions. At the same time we are faced with dangers related to unintended consequences of our actions and by our reliance on the knowledge of experts. We create, maintain and revise a set of biographical narratives, social roles and lifestyles – the story of who we are, and how we came to be where we are now. We are increasingly free to choose what we want to do and who we want to be (although Giddens contends that wealth gives access to more options). But increased choice can be both liberating and troubling. Liberating in the sense of increasing the likelihood of one's self-fulfilment, and troubling in form of increased emotional stress and time needed to analyse the available choices and minimise risk of which we are increasingly aware (what Giddens sums up as \"manufacturing uncertainty\"). While in earlier, traditional societies we would be provided with that narrative and social role, in the post-traditional society we are usually forced to create one ourselves. As Giddens puts it:\nGiddens' recent work has been concerned with the question of what is characteristic about social institutions in various points of history. Giddens agrees that there are very specific changes that mark our current era, but argues that it is not a \"post-modern era\", but just a \"radicalised modernity era\" (similar to Zygmunt Bauman's concept of liquid modernity), produced by the extension of the same social forces that shaped the previous age. Giddens nonetheless differentiates between pre-modern, modern and late (high) modern societies and doesn't dispute that important changes have occurred but takes a neutral stance towards those changes, saying that it offers both unprecedented opportunities and unparalleled dangers. He also stresses that we haven't really gone beyond modernity. It's just a developed, detraditionalised, radicalised, 'late' modernity. Thus the phenomena that some have called 'postmodern' are to Giddens nothing more than the most extreme instances of a developed modernity. Along with Ulrich Beck and Scott Lash, he endorses the term reflexive modernisation as a more accurate description of the processes associated with the second modernity, since it opposes itself (in its earlier version) instead of opposing traditionalism, endangering the very institutions it created (such as the national state, the political parties or the nuclear family).\n\nGiddens concentrates on a contrast between traditional (pre-modern) culture and post-traditional (modern) culture. In traditional societies, individual actions need not be extensively thought about, because available choices are already determined (by the customs, traditions, etc.). In contrast, in post-traditional society people (actors, agents) are much less concerned with the precedents set by earlier generations, and they have more choices, due to flexibility of law and public opinion. This however means that individual actions now require more analysis and thought before they are taken. Society is more reflexive and aware, something Giddens is fascinated with, illustrating it with examples ranging from state governance to intimate relationships. Giddens examines three realms in particular: the experience of identity, connections of intimacy and political institutions.\n\nThe most defining property of modernity, according to Giddens, is that we are disembedded from time and space. In pre-modern societies, space was the area in which one moved, time was the experience one had while moving. In modern societies, however, the social space is no longer confined by the boundaries set by the space in which one moves. One can now imagine what other spaces look like, even if he has never been there. In this regard, Giddens talks about virtual space and virtual time. Another distinctive property of modernity lies in the field of knowledge.\n\nIn pre-modern societies, it was the elders who possessed the knowledge: they were definable in time and space. In modern societies we must rely on expert systems. These are not present in time and space, but we must trust them. Even if we trust them, we know that something could go wrong: there's always a risk we have to take. Also the technologies which we use, and which transform constraints into means, hold risks. Consequently, there is always a heightened sense of uncertainty in contemporary societies. It is also in this regard that Giddens uses the image of a 'juggernaut': modernity is said to be like an unsteerable juggernaut travelling through space.\n\nHumanity tries to steer it, but as long as the modern institutions, with all their uncertainty, endure, we will never be able to influence its course. The uncertainty can however be managed, by 'reembedding' the expert-systems into the structures which we are accustomed to.\n\nAnother characteristic is enhanced reflexivity, both at the level of individuals and at the level of institutions. The latter requires an explanation: in modern institutions there is always a component which studies the institutions themselves for the purpose of enhancing its effectiveness. This enhanced reflexivity was enabled as language became increasingly abstract with the transition from pre-modern to modern societies, becoming institutionalised into universities. It is also in this regard that Giddens talks about \"double hermeneutica\": every action has two interpretations. One is from the actor himself, the other of the investigator who tries to give meaning to the action he is observing. The actor who performs the action, however, can get to know the interpretation of the investigator, and therefore change his own interpretation, or his further line of action.\n\nThis is the reason that positive science, according to Giddens, is never possible in the social sciences: every time an investigator tries to identify causal sequences of action, the actors can change their further line of action. The problem is, however, that conflicting viewpoints in social science result in a disinterest of the people. For example, when scientists don't agree about the greenhouse-effect, people will withdraw from that arena, and deny that there is a problem. Therefore, the more the sciences expand, the more uncertainty there is in the modern society. In this regard, the juggernaut gets even more steerless.\n\nIn \"A Contemporary Critique of Historical Materialism\", Giddens concludes that:\n\nIn the age of late and reflexive modernity and post scarcity economy, the political science is being transformed. Giddens notes that there is a possibility that \"life politics\" (the politics of self-actualisation) may become more visible than \"emancipatory politics\" (the politics of inequality); that new social movements may lead to more social change than political parties; and that the reflexive project of the self and changes in gender and sexual relations may lead the way, via the \"democratisation of democracy\", to a new era of Habermasian \"dialogic democracy\" in which differences are settled, and practices ordered, through discourse rather than violence or the commands of authority.\n\nGiddens, relying on his past familiar themes of reflexivity and system integration, which places people into new relations of trust and dependency with each other and their governments, argues that the political concepts of 'left' and 'right' are now breaking down, as a result of many factors, most centrally the absence of a clear alternative to capitalism and the eclipse of political opportunities based on the social class in favour of those based on lifestyle choices.\n\nGiddens moves away from explaining how things are to the more demanding attempt of advocacy about how they ought to be. In \"Beyond Left and Right\" (1994) Giddens criticises market socialism and constructs a six-point framework for a reconstituted radical politics:\n\n\"The Third Way\" (1998) provides the framework within which the 'third way' - which Giddens also terms the 'radical centre' - is justified. In addition, \"The Third Way\" supplies a broad range of policy proposals aimed at what Giddens calls the 'progressive centre-left' in British politics. According to Giddens:\nGiddens remains fairly optimistic about the future of humanity:\n\nGiddens discards the possibility of a single, comprehensive, all-connecting ideology or political programme. Instead he advocates going after the 'small pictures', ones people can directly affect at their home, workplace or local community. This, to Giddens, is a difference between pointless utopianism and useful utopian realism, which he defines as envisaging \"alternative futures whose very propagation might help them be realised\". (\"The Consequences of Modernity\"). By 'utopian' he means that this is something new and extraordinary, and by 'realistic' he stresses that this idea is rooted in the existing social processes and can be viewed as their simple extrapolation. Such a future has at its centre a more socialised, demilitarised and planetary-caring global world order variously articulated within green, women's and peace movements, and within the wider democratic movement.\n\nThe Third Way was not just a work of abstract theory, but influenced a range of left of centre political parties across the world – in Europe, the US, Latin America and Australasia. Although close to New Labour in the UK, Giddens dissociated himself from many of the interpretations of the third way made in the sphere of day-to-day politics. For him it was not a succumbing to neoliberalism or the dominance of markets. The point was to get beyond both free market fundamentalism and traditional top down socialism – to make the values of the centre-left count in a globalising world. He argued that ‘the regulation of financial markets is the single most pressing issue in the world economy’ and that ‘global commitment to free trade depends upon effective regulation rather than dispenses with the need for it’.\n\nIn 1999, Giddens delivered the BBC Reith Lectures on the subject of ‘Runaway World’, subsequently published as a book of that title. The aim was to introduce the concept and implications of globalisation to a lay audience. He was the first Reith Lecturer to deliver the lectures in different places around the world; and the first to respond directly to e-mails that came in while he was speaking. The lectures were delivered in London, Washington, New Delhi and Hong Kong and responded to by local audiences. Giddens received the Asturias Prize for the social sciences in 2002. The award has been labelled ‘the Spanish Nobel Prize’, but stretches well beyond the sphere of science. Other recipients of the Prize that year included Woody Allen, Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, and conductor Daniel Barenboim.\n\nOn two visits to Libya in 2006 and 2007, organised by the Boston-based consultancy firm Monitor Group, Giddens met with Muammar al-Gaddafi. Giddens has declined to comment on the financial compensation he received. The Guardian reported in March 2011, that Libya's government engaged Monitor Group as advisor on matters of public relations. Monitor Group allegedly received 2 million pounds in return for undertaking a \"cleansing campaign\" to improve Libya's image. In a letter to Abdullah Senussi, a high-ranking Libyan official in July 2006, Monitor Group reported that:\n\nWe will create a network map to identify significant figures engaged or interested in Libya today ... We will identify and encourage journalists, academics and contemporary thinkers who will have interest in publishing papers and articles on Libya ... We are delighted that after a number of conversations, Lord Giddens has now accepted our invitation to visit Libya in July.\n\nGiddens' first visit to Libya resulted in articles in the \"New Statesman\", \"El País\" and \"La Repubblica\", where he argued that the country had been dramatically transformed. In the \"New Statesman\" he wrote: \"Gaddafi's 'conversion' may have been driven partly by the wish to escape sanctions, but I get the strong sense it is authentic and there is a lot of motive power behind it. Saif Gaddafi is a driving force behind the rehabilitation and potential modernisation of Libya. Gaddafi Sr, however, is authorising these processes.\" During the second visit, Monitor Group organised a panel of \"three thinkers\" – Giddens, Gaddafi, and Benjamin Barber, author of \"Jihad vs. McWorld\" – chaired by Sir David Frost.\n\nGiddens remarked of his meetings with Gaddafi, \"You usually get about half an hour with a political leader,\" he recalls. \"My conversation lasts for more than three. Gaddafi is relaxed and clearly enjoys intellectual conversation. He likes the term 'third way’ because his own political philosophy is a version of this idea. He makes many intelligent and perceptive points. I leave enlivened and encouraged.\"\n\nGiddens introduces 'reflexivity' and in information societies information gathering is considered as a routinised process for the greater protection of the nation. Information gathering is known as the concept of 'individuation.' Individuality comes as a result of individuation as people are given more 'informed choices.' The more information the government has about a person, the more entitlements are given to the citizens. The process of information gathering helps government to identify 'enemies-of-the-state,' singling out individuals that are suspected of plotting activities against the state. The advent of technology has brought national security to a completely new level. Historically, the military relied on armed force to deal with threats. With the development of ICT, biometric scans, language translation, real time programs and other related intelligent programs have made the identification of terrorist activities much easier compared to the past. The analysing of algorithm patterns in biometric databases have given government new leads. Data about citizens can be collected through identification and credential verification companies. Hence, surveillance and ICT goes hand-in-hand with information gathering. In other words, the collection of information is necessary as 'stringent safeguards' for the protection of the nation, preventing it from imminent attacks.\n\nGiddens has vigorously pursued the theme of globalization in recent years. He sees the growing interdependence of world society as driven not only by the increasing integration of the world economy, but above all by massive advances in communications. As he has noted, when he delivered the BBC Reith Lectures, just before the turn of the century, the Internet was in its infancy. Now it has expanded in a wholly unprecedented way - linking people and organizations across the world on an everyday level, but also intruding deeply into everyday life. Billions of people have access to it and the numbers are growing every day. An increasingly interconnected and wired-up world offers many advantages and benefits. Yet it carries new risks too, some themselves of global proportions. In the 21st century work opportunity and risk combine as never before. Giddens refers to the emergence on a global level of a ‘high opportunity, high risk society’. Both on the level of opportunity and risk we are in terrain human beings have never explored before. We don’t know in advance what the balance is likely to be, because many of the opportunities and risks are quite new – we can’t draw on past history to assess them.\n\nClimate change is one of those new risks. No other civilization before the advent of modern industrialism was able to intervene into nature to even a fraction of the extent to which we do on an everyday basis.\n\nClimate change was referred to in several of Giddens’s books from the mid-1990s onwards, but was not discussed at length until the publication of his work \"The Politics of Climate Change\" in 2009. Climate change, Giddens says, constitutes a fundamental threat to the future of industrial civilisation as it spreads across the globe. Given that is the case, he asks, why are countries around the world doing so little to counter its advance? Many reasons are involved, but the prime one is the historical novelty of humanly induced climate change itself. No previous civilisation intervened into nature on a level remotely similar to that which we do on an everyday level today. We have no previous experience of dealing with such an issue and especially one of such global scope, or of the dangers it poses. Those dangers hence appear as abstract, and located at some indefinite point in the future. ‘Giddens’s paradox’ consists of the following theorem. We are likely put off responding adequately to climate change until major catastrophes unequivocally connected to it occur; but by then by definition it will be too late. For we have no way of reversing the build-up of greenhouses gases that is driving the transformation of the world’s climate. Some such gases will be in the atmosphere for centuries.\n\nIn his latest work, Giddens has returned to the subject of the European Union, discussed in 2007 in his book \"Europe in the Global Age\" and in a diversity of articles. In \"Turbulent and Mighty Continent: What Future for Europe?\" he discusses the likely future of the EU in the wake of the world financial crisis. Giddens writes as a committed pro-European, but accepts that fundamental reforms must be made if the EU is to avoid stagnation or worse. The coming of the euro introduced economic federalism among the eurozone countries and therefore to the EU as a whole. Some version of political federalism must follow, even if limited in nature. Reforms must confer qualities absent from much of the EU’s history but now required for its future – flexible and quick-acting leadership, coupled to the greater democratic involvement of citizens. However, he also emphasised that ‘The Union could still founder, even disintegrate, the result of a chain reaction of circumstances that member states were unable to control’. In December 2014 \"Turbulent and Mighty Continent\" was awarded the European Book Prize, awarded by a selection jury featuring members from many different countries.\n\nIn recent years, while continuing to pursue some of the core themes of his earlier works, Giddens has become preoccupied with the impact of the digital revolution (DR) on world society and on everyday life. That revolution, he argues, must not be identified solely with the advent of the internet, extraordinary though that is. Rather the DR is a massive wave of change washing across the world, driven by the interrelation between the internet, robotics and supercomputers. It is huge algorithmic power – available to the billions of people who already possess smartphones – that connects the other two. \n\nGiddens sees the pace and global scope of the DR as unprecedented in human history – and we are probably only in its early stages. Many see the DR as primarily producing endless diversity and as acting to dissolve pre-existing institutions and modes of life. Giddens emphasises that from its beginnings it has been bound up with power and large-scale structures too. It is deeply bound up with American global power and has physical form, depending as it does upon global satellite systems and systems, underground cables and concentrations of supercomputers. GPS has its origins in super-power rivalry between the US and what was then the Soviet Union. The digital universe is also funded by mass advertising and expresses the dominance of large corporations in the world economy. \n\nThe DR forms an important part of Giddens’s recent preoccupation with the emergence of the high opportunity, high risk society. For example, the advent of the DR promises fundamental advances in core areas of medicine. New threats and problems abound, both in our everyday lives and in the larger institutions of our societies. Scientists can communicate with one-another in a direct way across the world. The overlap of supercomputers and genetics means that genetic structures can be decoded instantaneously, promising huge advances in conquering major diseases. Medical practice is likely to be transformed through remote monitoring and other digital innovations. Yet the overlap of the DR with criminality, violence and war is pervasive and dangerous. Military drones are just one example of the continuing involvement of the DR with war.\n\nEmerging developments in AI (artificial intelligence) look likely to propel these changes into a new phase of social transformation, whose outlines at present remain hazy, but which look certain to be quite profound. Supercomputers are becoming more and more powerful in terms of their capacity to handle immense amounts of data, while quantum computers, with even greater processing capacity, loom on the horizon. At the same time, deep learning – artificial neural networks capable of innovative thinking – is fast advancing. A world-wide debate is going on about how far AI can match, or even surpass, human intellectual capabilities. AI and geopolitics, Giddens says, are converging all over again, 'as the circle of change comes back to its point of origin.' Russia has weaponised fake news as a means of weakening the US and other Western democracies. In the meantime, China is pouring resources into the further development of AI and currently possesses the world’s most advanced supercomputer. \n\nGiddens was a member of the House of Lords Select Committee on AI which reported in April 2018. The Committee put forward a variety of suggested reforms, to apply not only in the UK but also potentially much more widely. These should take place within a common ethical framework, to guide intervention on the part of government and of the digital corporations themselves. The power of the digital mega-corporations must be curtailed and subjected to democratic governance, challenging and problematic though such an endeavour is. AI should be developed for the common good. It should follow principles of transparency and fairness and never be allocated the autonomous capability to harm human actors. The major nations and transnational agencies should work towards ensuring that such principles are incorporated into their own codes and practices and applied on a transnational level. The worry, however, is that an 'AI arms race' will develop as countries jostle to take the lead both in AI generally and in its application to weaponry of diverse sorts. In a much-publicised speech given in 2017, Vladimir Putin observed of advances in AI that 'whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world'. If there is a jostling for advantage among the major powers, concerns of ethics and safety may fall by the wayside in the scramble for advantage, adding to the stresses and strains already visible in the international order. \n\nHe was given a life peerage in June 2004, as Baron Giddens, of Southgate in the London Borough of Enfield and sits in the House of Lords for the Labour Party.\n\nIn April 2016 Lord Giddens was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of South Australia in recognition of his achievements in sociology and social theory.\n\nAnthony Giddens is the author of over 34 books and 200 articles. This is a selection of some of the most important of his works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6967114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6967114", "title": "Battle of the Styles", "text": "Battle of the Styles\n\nThe Battle of the Styles is a term used to refer to the conflict between supporters of the Gothic style and the Classical style in architecture. In Britain this led to public debates between Decimus Burton and Augustus Pugin. \n\nLater in the century the revival of vernacular architecture led to an increasing palette of styles from which architects could choose, including Queen Anne style and \"Tudorbethan\" models. Numerous stylistic options led to a debate about prefabricated stylistic options in architecture, which eventually mutated into the Arts and Crafts style and then into Modernism.\n"}
{"id": "2376655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376655", "title": "Bengali renaissance", "text": "Bengali renaissance\n\nThe Bengali renaissance or simply Bengal renaissance, (; Bānglār nabajāgaraṇ) was a cultural, social, intellectual and artistic movement in Bengal region in the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent during the period of the British Indian Empire, from the nineteenth century to the early twentieth century dominated by Bengali Hindus. The Bengal renaissance can be said to have started with Raja Ram Mohan Roy (1772–1833) and ended with Rabindranath Tagore (1861–1941), although there have been many stalwarts, such as Satyajit Ray (1921-1992), thereafter embodying particular aspects of the unique intellectual and creative output. Nineteenth-century Bengal was a unique blend of religious and social reformers, scholars, literary giants, journalists, patriotic orators and scientists, all merging to form the image of a renaissance, and marked the transition from the 'medieval' to the 'modern'.\n\nDuring this period, Bengal witnessed an intellectual awakening that is in some way similar to the Renaissance in Europe during the 16th century, although Europeans of that age were not confronted with the challenge and influence of alien colonialism. This movement questioned existing orthodoxies, particularly with respect to women, marriage, the dowry system, the caste system, and religion. One of the earliest social movements that emerged during this time was the Young Bengal movement, that espoused rationalism and atheism as the common denominators of civil conduct among upper caste educated Hindus.\n\nThe parallel socio-religious movement, the Brahmo Samaj, developed during this time period and counted many of the leaders of the Bengal Renaissance among its followers. In the earlier years the Brahmo Samaj, like the rest of society, could not however, conceptualize, in that feudal-colonial era, a free India as it was influenced by the European Enlightenment (and its bearers in India, the British Raj) although it traced its intellectual roots to the Upanishads. Their version of Hinduism, or rather Universal Religion (similar to that of Ramakrishna), although devoid of practices like sati and polygamy that had crept into the social aspects of Hindu life, was ultimately a rigid impersonal monotheistic faith, which actually was quite distinct from the pluralistic and multifaceted nature of the way the Hindu religion was practiced. Future leaders like Keshub Chunder Sen were as much devotees of Christ, as they were of Brahma, Krishna or the Buddha. It has been argued by some scholars that the Brahmo Samaj movement never gained the support of the masses and remained restricted to the elite, although Hindu society has accepted most of the social reform programmes of the Brahmo Samaj. It must also be acknowledged that many of the later Brahmos were also leaders of the freedom movement.\n\nThe renaissance period after the Indian Rebellion of 1857 saw a magnificent outburst of Bengali literature. While Ram Mohan Roy and Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar were the pioneers, others like Bankim Chandra Chatterjee widened it and built upon it. The first significant nationalist detour to the Bengal Renaissance was given by the writings of Bankim Chandra Chatterjee. Later writers of the period who introduced broad discussion of social problems and more colloquial forms of Bengali into mainstream literature included Saratchandra Chatterjee.\nThe Tagore family, including Rabindranath Tagore, were leaders of this period and had a particular interest in educational reform. Their contribution to the Bengal Renaissance was multi-faceted. Tagore's 1901 Bengali novella, \"Nastanirh\" was written as a critique of men who professed to follow the ideals of the Renaissance, but failed to do so within their own families. In many ways Rabindranath Tagore's writings (especially poems and songs) can be seen as imbued with the spirit of the Upanishads. His works repeatedly allude to Upanishadic ideas regarding soul, liberation, transmigration and—perhaps most essentially—about a spirit that imbues all creation not unlike the Upanishadic Brahman. Tagore's English translation of a set of poems titled the Gitanjali won him the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1913. He was the first Asian to win this award (and the first non-European/non-white person of 'colour' to win the Nobel Prize in any category). That was the only example at the time but the contribution of the Tagore family is enormous.\n\nThe word \"renaissance\" in European history meant \"rebirth\" and was used in the context of the revival of the Graeco-Roman learning in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries after the long winter of the dark medieval period. A serious comparison was started by the dramatis personae of the Bengal renaissance like Keshab Chandra Sen, Bipin Chandra Pal and M. N. Roy. For about a century, Bengal's conscious awareness and the changing modern world was more developed and ahead of the rest of India. The role played by Bengal in the modern awakening of India is thus comparable to the position occupied by Italy in the European renaissance. Very much like the Italian Renaissance, it was not a mass movement; but instead restricted to the upper classes. \n\nThough the Bengal Renaissance was the \"culmination of the process of emergence of the cultural characteristics of the Bengali people that had started in the age of Hussein Shah, it remained predominantly Hindu and only partially Muslim.\" There were, nevertheless, examples of Muslim intellectuals such as Syed Ameer Ali, Mosharraf Hussain, Sake Dean Mahomed, Kazi Nazrul Islam, and Roquia Sakhawat Hussain. The Freedom of Intellect Movement sought to challenge religious and social dogma in Bengali Muslim society.\n\nDuring the Bengal Renaissance science was also advanced by several Bengali scientists such as Satyendra Nath Bose, Anil Kumar Gain, Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, Jagadish Chandra Bose and Meghnad Saha. Sir Jagadish Chandra Bose was a polymath: a physicist, biologist, botanist, archaeologist, and writer of science fiction. He pioneered the investigation of radio and microwave optics, made very significant contributions to plant science, and laid the foundations of experimental science in the Indian subcontinent. He is considered one of the fathers of radio science, and is also considered the father of Bengali science fiction. He was the first from the Indian subcontinent to get a US patent, in 1904. Anil Kumar Gain and Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis were leading mathematicians and statisticians of their time. Gain went on to found Vidyasagar University, while Mahalanobis laid the foundation of the Indian Statistical Institute. Satyendra Nath Bose was a physicist, specializing in mathematical physics. He is best known for his work on quantum mechanics in the early 1920s, providing the foundation for Bose-Einstein statistics and the theory of the Bose-Einstein condensate. He is honoured as the namesake of the boson. Although more than one Nobel Prize was awarded for research related to the concepts of the boson, Bose-Einstein statistics and Bose-Einstein condensate—the latest being the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physics, which was given for advancing the theory of Bose-Einstein condensates—Bose himself was never awarded the Nobel Prize.\n\nAccording to historian Romesh Chunder Dutt:\n\nMost notable Bengali religious and spiritual personalities are Atiśa, Tilopa, Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Ramakrishna, Sree Sree Thakur Anukulchandra, Nityananda, Haridasa Thakur, Jiva Goswami, Ramprasad Sen, Lokenath Brahmachari, Swami Vivekananda, Keshub Chandra Sen, Balananda Brahmachari, Vishuddhananda Paramahansa, Sri Aurobindo, Lahiri Mahasaya, Bamakhepa, Yukteswar Giri, Debendranath Tagore, Swami Abhedananda, Bhaktivinoda Thakur, Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati, A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, Mohanananda Brahmachari, Sitaramdas Omkarnath, Ram Thakur, Lalon, Tibbetibaba, Soham Swami, Nigamananda Paramahansa, Niralamba Swami, Pranavananda, Bijoy Krishna Goswami, Paramahansa Yogananda, Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar, Anukulchandra Chakravarty, Anandamayi Ma, Hariharananda Giri, Anirvan and Sri Chinmoy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38332740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38332740", "title": "Beverley Ussher", "text": "Beverley Ussher\n\nBeverley Ussher (born Melbourne 1868; died Melbourne, 9 June 1908) was articled to Melbourne architect Alfred Dunn. Dunn was English and had worked for architect Alexander Lauder in Barnstaple, Devon, where he worked with Arts and Crafts movement theorist and practitioner W.R. Lethaby. Through Dunn's English connections, when Ussher completed his architecture articles in Melbourne, he visited England and was introduced to architect Walter Butler. Later Ussher and Butler formed a partnership in Melbourne.\n\nUssher's first architectural partner, Walter Richmond Butler (1864–1949), was an English architect who worked in London as chief assistant to ecclesiastical architect J. D. Sedding. Butler was accepted into the Arts and Crafts and Domestic Revival circles centred on William Morris and Richard Norman Shaw, among whom his closest friend was Ernest Gimson (1864–1919).\n\nIn June 1888 Butler left Sedding's office and sailed for Australia, perhaps at the prompting of young architect Beverley Ussher then visiting London. Three of Butler's brothers and one of his sisters also settled in Australia. From 1889 until 1893 Butler was in partnership with Ussher. In 1896 they were joined by George C. Inskip but they parted in 1905 after a dispute with the Royal Victorian Institute of Architects over the conduct of a competition.\n\nBeverley Ussher and Henry (Hardie) Kemp (born Broughton, Lancashire, UK, 10 March 1859; died Melbourne, 22 April 1946) then formed a partnership in Melbourne in 1899, which lasted until Ussher's death (1908). This \"brilliant partnership\" pioneered the Australian Federation style of domestic architecture. Both Ussher and Kemp had strong Arts and Crafts commitments, and both had been in partnerships before forming their own.\n\nThe practice specialised in domestic work and their houses epitomise the Marseilles-tiled Queen Anne (or Federation style) houses characteristic of Melbourne, and considered now to be a truly distinctive Australian genre.\nAt the time of their creation they were a break with the use of cement render, applied stucco ornament, cast iron, slates, and double hung windows.\nTheir designs use red bricks, terracotta tiles and casement windows, avoid applied ornamentation and develop substantial timber details. The picturesque character of the houses results from a conscious attempt to express externally with gables, dormers, bays, roof axes, and chimneys, the functional variety of rooms within.\n\nThe iconic Federation style houses by Beverley Ussher and Henry Kemp did not appear until 1892-4. Then, several of those appeared in Boroondara.\nDalswraith for William Gibson, 99 Studley Park Road, Kew (1906) and a house for A. Norman, 7 Adeney Avenue, Kew (1908) are superb examples of his designs.\n\n\"George Tibbits has discussed this firm at great length in his article \"The so-called Melbourne Domestic Queen Anne\". It was undoubtably one of the most accomplished and prolific of the Melbourne practices of the early twentieth century. It drew on a distinguished line of work by the individual partners from the nineteenth century.\"\n\nButler and Ussher worked together on a series of designs between 1890 and 1893, many of which are considered to be outstanding examples of the Picturesque Aesthetic.\n\nGeorge Tibbits, in an article titled 'The So-Called Melbourne Domestic Queen Anne' describes Blackwood Homestead as being 'one of the finest 19th century examples' of this type.\n\nBeverley Ussher designed the house 'Milliara' (John Whiting house) in Wallace Avenue. Toorak, in about 1895. It seemed very anglophile in that it had a drawing room ceiling which exactly reproduced of the dining hall ceiling at Bolsover Castle, which Ussher had himself measured and drawn. However the architraves of the arches were decorated with local flora, and the panelling used Australian timbers.\n\nTwo years later the emphasis on local timber was even greater in Ussher's house for J C Foden in Canterbury: \"The whole of the woodwork of the drawing room, dining room, hall, stairs and landing, including the sliding doors, was carried out in Australian and New Zealand woods, such as silky oak, blackwood, fiddleback and kauri, and then French polished.\"\n\nHouses\nUssher & Kemp are said to have been responsible for nearly every impressive Federation Queen Anne style house in the eastern suburbs of Kew, Hawthorn and Camberwell. \n\nUssher's work falls into two categories:\nGabled designs, usually large two-storey houses where gables project from an overall hipped roof. In general, Ussher's largest houses (such as Dalwraith in Kew of 1906), adopt the gabled form. \n\nSingle storey designs, the large, spreading multi-gabled form that developed into the distinctive Queen Anne style the dominant house style in the first decade of the twentieth century. Seminal examples by Assher & Kemp include the Hedges House in Canterbury and the Clarke house in Toorak, both of 1897.\n\nTogether Ussher & Kemp developed this style with, characteristically featuring tall Marseilles tiled hipped roofs, timber verandah decorations, and a strongly three-dimensional form with emphasis.\n\nThe Queen Anne style combined with some of the principles of Australian homestead planning and design around the turn of the century, to produce a new suburban style continuing to the end of World War One and is sometimes loosely referred to as Edwardian or Federation.\n\nQueen Anne style had an ongoing influence on vernacular design which can be seen up to the 1960s.\n\nThe domestic Queen Anne style buildings which survive from the turn of the century had a vital role in the development of the urban form of metropolis.\"\n\nArchitecturally significant for: its adaptation of Queen Anne style to a tight site; the complexity of its elevation and planning; the use of the unusual splayed corner on a Queen Anne style design; and for the outstanding fence, rare on Queen Anne-style houses throughout Metropolitan Melbourne.\n\"A magnificent landmark residence\"\nBuilt Circa 1909 for Herbert Parsons a spice trader and set on a magnificent allotment (2,089sqm) with superbly landscaped and maintained gardens, this landmark residence showcases the elegance and graciousness of classic Ussher & Kemp architecture, whilst providing unparalleled family living and entertaining areas both inside and outside.\nArchitects Ussher & Kemp acted for Mellor when the house was connected to the MMBW sewer, in 1907, and it appears that they were also the designers.\nAt Coorinyah, the broad hipped roof is the dominant backdrop for a number of gabled roof forms, chimneys and the unusual shingle-spired look-out, with its attached chimney. Below the eaves line giant arched timber supports spring between gabled verandah or room bays, almost removing the visual support for the large roof expanses above it.\nBeverly Ussher’s seminal Cottage by the Sea orphanage at Queenscliff (now demolished), set out the mature Federation villa form: see The Building and Engineering Journal, 8, 184, 9 January 1892, p. 14,\nA perfect example of a gracious residence standing on a cul-de-sac corner showcasing lavish architectural allure.\nRAIA 20th CENTURY BUILDINGS REGISTER (later Campion Hall)\nDalvui at 4310 Mackinnons Bridge Road. Noorat 3265 is a widely admired property, with its famed gardens and grand home.\nRAIA 20th CENTURY BUILDINGS REGISTER\nEildon, now known as the Napier Club, was built as a two-storey, red brick residence and surgery for Dr David Laidlaw in 1904 to a design by architects Ussher and Kemp in the Federation Queen Anne style.\nWee Nestie is placed askew on its owner site, it is aligned, unlike its neighbours, neither perpendicularly nor diagonally to the street. A large indented gateway was at a comer splay in the allotment and an asphalt tennis court on the west of the house.\nArchitects, Ussher & Kemp, designed this nine-room Queen Anne styled house for importer, William Halsey in 1900. G. Garrett was the builder. Later owners included J.R Wood and P.R Kershaw; the latter converting, Wee Nestie to Karinyah private hospital in 1959.\nArchitecturally significant at the State level as one of Ussher and Kemps' best and most sophisticated designs, integrating unusual brick detailing and an atypical symmetrical arrangement.\nThe architects Ussher and Kemp designed the imposing Edwardian villa at 98 Riversdale Road in 1899 for George and Mary Ann Thyssen.\n169 Canterbury Road is one of the more prominent designs by the renowned residential partnership of Ussher and Kemp at a time when the practice was at its peak. It compares directly – and favourably – with other leading designs of theirs, particularly among their two-storey houses, and is a direct predecessor to Kemp's renowned Dalswraith in Kew.\nexternal image 114%2520Bellair%2520St%2520Kensington%252C%2520VIC.jpg\nArchitecturally, a near original prominent and early example of a common suburban style, designed by the Queen Anne Villa specialists Ussher and Kemp: of metropolitan importance. Historically, for a long period one of the few sources of medical attention in the local community: of local importance.\nBuilt between 1901 and 1910 to the designs of architects Ussher and Kemp, the Norman House is a fine example of the hip roofed genre of the so-called Melbourne Queen Anne style house and one of the most representative works emanating from Melbourne's most renowned firm of residential architects at the time of Federation.\nArchitecturally, a near original prominent and early example of a common suburban style, designed by the Queen Anne Villa specialists Ussher and Kemp: of metropolitan importance. Historically, for a long period one of the few sources of medical attention in the local community: of local importance.\nAn essentially intact well-designed and detailed example of the Federation style, Marlborough House was constructed in local materials. It exhibits the regional motif of tuck-pointed red brick quoins to a limestone building. Important architectural features such as the timber verandah with original posts, balustrade fretwork, brackets and floor, twin gable ends with infill strapwork, limestone brackets and intact joinery remain. It is of interest that the symmetry of the composition relied on the construction of the ballroom wing. This implies an optimism regarding the success of the project when it first started.\nAmongst the best examples of Queen Anne style villas in Hawthorn, substantially intact and illustrating particularly well, the strong garden orientation of the style. Illustrative of the high quality for houses constructed on Hawthorn's major boulevards.\nA typical example of the smaller scale bungalow adaptation of the Queen Anne style which became synonymous with the garden suburb ideal in the Edwardian period. A smaller work by Ussher and Kemp but illustrating the transfer of stone arcading to timber verandah form, which was influential in the popular market.\n\"Grand in stature and glorious in detail, standing amidst elevated grounds (21,500 sqft) in prestigious Studley Park, 'Seward House' c1899 is one of celebrated architects' Ussher & Kemp's first commissions that set a magnificent precedent for a distinguished partnership. A rare offering on an expansive 1,998sqm allotment.\nThis magnificent Federation Queen Anne residence is Ussher & Kemp at their glorious best masterfully merging with stunning contemporary enhancement.\n\nOther works\nThe Professional Chambers building in Collins Street was designed for the Trustees of the Independent Church by Beverley Ussher of the firm Ussher and Kemp. The building was finished in 1908, the year Ussher died.\n\nThe three-storey red brick structure with attic is styled in a mode eclectically derived from Romanesque Revival, Gothic Revival, Elizabethan Revival and Queen Anne Revival architecture.\n\nThe construction is of tuck-pointed face red brick decorated with rendered cement dressings and a terra cotta tile roof. The Picturesque roof line with steep gable ends and tall clustered chimneys, the oriel windows and central round arch Romanesque entry with foliated decoration together produces a bold facade to Collins Street.\n\nThe design reflects Ussher's preoccupation with the Picturesque domestic revival in Victoria and has links with the so-called Queen Anne Revival style in England.\n\nPlea:\"These pictures are indicative, please help to upload pictures of the houses listed above.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56297553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56297553", "title": "Child soldiers in the Central African Republic", "text": "Child soldiers in the Central African Republic\n\nAs many as 10,000 children were used by armed groups in the armed conflict in the Central African Republic (CAR) between 2012 and 2015, and as of 2016 the problem persists natiowide. The mainly Muslim “Séléka” coalition of armed groups and the predominantly Christian, \"Anti-Balaka\" militias have both used children in this way; some are as young as eight.\n\nIn 2005, armed conflict broke out between the government of President François Bozizé and armed groups, which had supported him to seize power in 2003. After peace talks brought some stability, conflict between the same parties erupted again in 2012. Armed groups formed the predominantly Muslim \"Séléka\" coalition, overthrowing the President.\n\nIn response to widespread human rights abuses perpetrated by the victorious Séléka, the \"Anti-Balaka\" emerged, a decentralised armed movement constituted mainly by Christian and animist militia, which had been supported by François Bozizé’s government. This movement was then reinforced by defecting members of the armed forces loyal to the former president, and it began to commit abuses against the country’s Muslim minority.\n\nAs sustained, nationwide violence between the two communities followed, both recruited children widely for military purposes. In 2013, UNICEF estimated that approximately 2,000 children were being used in this way, and that in 2015 the figure rose to between 6,000 and 10,000 children.\n\nIn May 2015, the \"Forum de Bangui\" brought together representatives of the transitional government, parliament, armed groups, civil society and religious leaders. At the meeting a number of armed groups signed an agreement on Disarmament, Demobilization, Reintegration and Repatriation (DDRR) and agreed to release thousands of children.\n\nIn 2016, a measure of stability returned to CAR and, according to the United Nations, 2,691 boys and 1,206 girls were officially separated from armed groups. Despite this, the recruitment and use of children for military purposes increased by approximately 50 per cent, mostly attributed to the armed group known as the Lord's Resistance Army.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child defines a child as any person under the age of 18. The Paris Principles, which have been approved by the United Nations General Assembly, define a child associated with an armed force or group as: \"...any person below 18 years of age who is or who has been recruited or used by an armed force or armed group in any capacity, including but not limited to children, boys and girls, used as fighters, cooks, porters, messengers, spies or for sexual purposes. It does not only refer to a child who is taking or has taken a direct part in hostilities.\"\n\nSince 1992, CAR has been bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which requires the state to \"take all feasible measures to ensure that persons who have not attained the age of 15 years do not take a direct part in hostilities\". Since 2017, CAR has also been bound by the higher standards of the Optional protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict, which requires the government to \"take all feasible measures to ensure that persons below the age of 18 do not take a direct part in hostilities and that they are not compulsorily recruited into their armed forces.\"\n\nAccording to Child Soldiers International, the main armed groups known to recruit children and use them in hostilities prior to 2012 were:\nAfter 2012 the recruitment of children for military purposes saw a marked increase under the Séléka coalition and Anti-Balaka movement.\n\nAccording to research in CAR by Child Soldiers International:\"Children have commonly joined armed groups of their own accord or at the behest of their families – this does not amount to voluntary recruitment, which requires free and informed consent. Children’s primary motivations appear to include revenge after bereavement; the need for protection; and/or a sense of duty to defend their communities. Poor access to education across the country has also been a contributing factor.\"\n\nAccording to Child Soldiers International, boys and girls as young as eight are trained to fight and use light weapons such as AK47s, knives and machetes, and are often used in frontline positions. Children are also widely used as guards, porters, messengers, spies, cooks, and for sexual purposes. The organization reports that youngest children are preferred for support tasks, such as preparing food, washing clothes, or acting as messengers and porters, and that a large number of children have been tasked with manning roadblocks and extorting money and valuables from travellers. The powerful stigma attached to sexual violence leads to substantial under-reporting, but the UN has received reports that a large number of girls and some boys were used for sexual purposes, including collective rape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412395", "title": "Consanguinity", "text": "Consanguinity\n\nConsanguinity (\"blood relation\", from the Latin \"consanguinitas\") is the property of being from the same kinship as another person. In that aspect, consanguinity is the quality of being descended from the same ancestor as another person.\n\nThe laws of many jurisdictions set out degrees of consanguinity in relation to prohibited sexual relations and marriage parties. Such rules are also used to determine heirs of an estate according to statutes that govern intestate succession, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In some places and times, cousin marriage is approved and expected; in others, it is as taboo as incest.\n\nFor most of European history, cousin marriage was quite common. But in modern, Western Europe, it is generally illegal and practiced at a marginal rate.\n\nThe degree of relative consanguinity can be illustrated with a consanguinity table in which each level of lineal consanguinity (\"generation\" or \"meiosis\") appears as a row, and individuals with a collaterally consanguineous relationship share the same row. The Knot System is a numerical notation that defines consanguinity.\n\nIssues of consanguinity arise in several aspects of the law.\n\nLaws prohibiting incest govern the degree of kinship within which marriage or sexual intercourse is permitted. These are almost universally prohibited within the second degree of consanguinity. Some jurisdictions forbid marriage between first cousins, while others do not. Marriage with aunts and uncles (avunculate marriage) is legal in several countries.\n\nConsanguinity is also relevant to inheritance, particularly with regard to intestate succession. In general, the law favors inheritance by persons closely related to the deceased.\n\nSome jurisdictions ban citizens from service on a jury on the basis of consanguinity with persons involved in the case.\n\nIn many countries, laws prohibiting nepotism ban employment of, or certain kinds of contracts with, the near relations of public officers or employees.\n\nUnder Roman civil law, which early canon law of the Catholic Church followed, couples were forbidden to marry if they were within four degrees of consanguinity. In the ninth century the church raised the number of prohibited degrees to seven and changed the method by which they were calculated. Eventually the nobility became too interrelated to marry as the pool of non-related prospective spouses became smaller. They had to either defy the church's position or look elsewhere for eligible marriage candidates. In 1215 the Fourth Lateran Council made what they believed was a necessary change to canon law reducing the number of prohibited degrees of consanguinity from seven back to four. The method of calculating prohibited degrees was changed also: Instead of the former practice of counting up to the common ancestor then down to the proposed spouse, the new law computed consanguinity by counting back to the common ancestor. In the Roman Catholic Church, unknowingly marrying a closely consanguineous blood relative was grounds for a declaration of nullity, but during the eleventh and twelfth centuries dispensations were granted with increasing frequency due to the thousands of persons encompassed in the prohibition at seven degrees and the hardships this posed for finding potential spouses.\n\nAfter 1215, the general rule was that while fourth cousins could marry without dispensation, generally the need for dispensations was greatly reduced. In fourteenth century England, for example, papal dispensations for annulments due to consanguinity (and affinity) were relatively few.\n\nThe connotations of degree of consanguinity varies by context, though most cultures define a degree of consanguinity within which sexual interrelationships are regarded as incestuous or the \"prohibited degree of kinship\".\n\nAmong the Christian \"Habesha\" highlanders of Ethiopia and Eritrea (the predominantly orthodox Christian Amhara and Tigray-Tigrinya), it is a tradition to be able to recount one's paternal ancestors at least seven generations away starting from early childhood, because \"those with a common patrilineal ancestor less than seven generations away are considered 'brother and sister' and may not marry.\" The rule is less strict on the mother's side, where the limit is about four generations back, but still determined patrilinearly. This rule does not apply to Muslims or other ethnic groups.\n\nThe Quran at 4:22-24 states. \"Forbidden to you in marriage are: your mothers, your daughters, your sisters, your father's sisters, your mother's sisters, your brother's daughters, your sister's daughters.\" Therefore, the list of forbidden marriage partners, as read in the Qur'an, Surah 4:23, does not include first cousins. Muhammad himself married his first cousin Zaynab bint Jahsh.\n\nFinancial incentives to discourage consangineous marriages exist in some countries: mandatory premarital screening for inherited blood disorders exist in the UAE since 2004, Qatar in 2009, where couples with positive results will not receive their marriage grant.\n\nThe Hindu marriage Act of 1955 recognized the custiom of cross-cousin marriages, and the legality of uncle–niece marriages was confirmed in the Hindu Code Bills of 1984.\n\nAyurveda states that marriage within the Gotra is a consanguineous marriage which can lead to many gestational and genetic problems in the fetus. So it has become a common practice in the Hindu households during pre-marriage discussions to ask the couples' Gotra. Couples of the same Gotra are advised not to marry. The advisers of this system say that this practice definitely helps in reducing the gestational problems and ensures a healthy progeny.\n\nGenetically, consanguinity derives from the reduction in variation due to meiosis that occurs because of the smaller number of near ancestors. Since all humans share between 99.6% and 99.9% of their genome, consanguinity only affects a very small part of the sequence. If two siblings have a child, the child only has two rather than four grandparents. In these circumstances the probability that the child inherits two copies of a harmful recessive gene (allele) rather than one which would not have immediate effects is much increased.\n\nGenetic consanguinity is expressed as defined 1922 by Wright with the coefficient of relationship \"r\", where \"r\" is defined as the fraction of homozygous due to the consanguinity under discussion. Thus, a parent and child pair has a value of \"r\"=0.5 (sharing 50% of genes), siblings have a value of \"r\"=0.5, a parent's sibling has \"r\"=0.25 (25% of genes), and first cousins have \"r\"=0.125 (12,5% of genes). These are often expressed in terms of a percentage of shared DNA.\n\nAs a working definition, unions contracted between persons biologically related as second cousins or closer (\"r\" ≥ 0.03125) are categorized as consanguineous. This arbitrary limit has been chosen because the genetic influence in marriages between couples related to a lesser degree would usually be expected to differ only slightly from that observed in the general population. Globally it is estimated that at least 8.5% of children have consanguineous parents.\n\nIn clinical genetics, consanguinity is defined as a union between two individuals who are related as second cousins or closer, with the inbreeding coefficient (F) equal or higher than 0.0156.where (F) represents the proportion of genetic loci at which the child of a consanguineous couple might inherit identical gene copies from both parents.\n\nIt is common to distinguish first-degree cousins, second-degree cousins, and often also third-degree cousins. Since comparatively few people can trace their full family tree for more than four generations, the identity of fourth-degree cousins often cannot be established.\nAlso, at a genetic level, half-fourth cousins typically do not exhibit greater genetic similarity with one another than with any other individual from the same population.\n\nReasons favoring consanguinous marriage have been listed as higher compatibility between husband and wife sharing same social relationships, couples stability, enforcing family solidarity, easier financial negotiations and others.\nConsanguinity is a deeply rooted phenomenon in 20% of the world population mostly the Middle East, West Asia and North Africa. Globally, the most common form of consanguineous union is between first cousins, in which the spouses share of their genes inherited from a common ancestor, and so their progeny are homozygous (or more correctly autozygous) at of all loci (\"r\" = 0.0625). Due to variation in geographical and ethnic background and the loci chosen to genotype there is some 2.4% variation expected.\n\nHistorically, some European nobles cited a close degree of consanguinity when they required convenient grounds for divorce, especially in contexts where religious doctrine forbade the voluntary dissolution of an unhappy or childless marriage. Conversely, the consanguinity law of Order of succession requires the next monarch to be of the same blood of the previous one; allowing, for example, illegitimate children to inherit.\n\nIn the Arab world today the practice of marrying relatives is common. According to the Centre for Arabic Genomic Research, between 40% and 54% of UAE nationals’ marriages are between family members, up from 39% in the previous generation. Between 21% and 28% of marriages of UAE nationals were between first cousins. Most Christian Arabs do not marry relatives as they do not believe in arranged marriages.\n\nIn Egypt, around 40% of the population marry a cousin. A 1992 survey in Jordan found that 32% were married to a first cousin; a further 17.3% were married to more distant relatives. 67% of marriages in Saudi Arabia are between close relatives as are 54% of all marriages in Kuwait, whereas 18% of all Lebanese were between blood relatives.The incidence of consanguinity was 54.3% among Kuwaiti natives and higher among Bedouins.\n\nIt has been estimated that 55% of marriages between Pakistani Muslim immigrants in the United Kingdom are between first cousins, where preferential patrilateral parallel cousin marriage, i.e. a boy marrying the daughter of his father's brother is favored.\n\nDouble Double first cousins are descended from two pairs of siblings, and have the same genetic similarity as half-siblings. In unions between double first cousins the highest inbreeding coefficients are reached, with an( F) of 0.125, for example in among Arabs and uncle-niece marriages in South India.\n\nThe phenomenon of inbreeding increases the level of homozygotes for autosomal genetic disorders and generally leads to a decreased biological fitness of a population known as inbreeding depression, a major objective in clinical studies. The offspring of consanguineous relationships are at greater risk of certain genetic disorders. Autosomal recessive disorders occur in individuals who are homozygous for a particular recessive gene mutation. This means that they carry two copies (alleles) of the same gene. Except in certain rare circumstances (new mutations or uniparental disomy) both parents of an individual with such a disorder will be carriers of the gene. Such carriers are not affected and will not display any signs that they are carriers, and so may be unaware that they carry the mutated gene. As relatives share a proportion of their genes, it is much more likely that related parents will be carriers of an autosomal recessive gene, and therefore their children are at a higher risk of an autosomal recessive disorder. The extent to which the risk increases depends on the degree of genetic relationship between the parents; so the risk is greater in mating relationships where the parents are close relatives, but for relationships between more distant relatives, such as second cousins, the risk is lower (although still greater than the general population).\n\nConsanguinity in a population increases its susceptibility to infectious pathogens such as tuberculosis and hepatitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "5451425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5451425", "title": "Cultural impact of Wonder Woman", "text": "Cultural impact of Wonder Woman\n\nWonder Woman is a character initially created for comic books in 1941, the medium in which she is still most prominently found to this day. As befitting an icon of her status, she has made appearances in other forms of media and has been referenced and meta-referenced beyond the scope of traditional superhero entertainment. For several years in the 1950s, the only three superheroes to have their own comic book were Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman.\n\nThe cultural impact of the character, once derided by psychologists and anti-comic book crusaders as an anti-male lesbian, has steadily increased over the years, having served as an iconic exemplar of the feminist movement and a continuing symbol of female empowerment.\n\nAs such, she appears in numerous media, from cereal box covers and popular magazines to being referenced both directly and indirectly in film, animation and television programming. As a cultural icon, she is the subject of several homages and parodies in many forms of media.\n\nWonder Woman's viewpoints and characteristics reflect those of her creator, William Moulton Marston, who was a strong supporter of feminist ideals and female empowerment:\n\nWonder Woman is the subject of a 1978 - 1979 video art piece by Dara Birnbaum, \"\". In this work she uses appropriated images of Wonder Woman to subvert the ideology and meaning embedded in the television series. Author T.J. Demos writes, \"(the) opening with a prolonged salvo of fiery explosions accompanied by the warning cry of a siren, \"Technology/Transformation: Wonder Woman\" is supercharged, action-packed, and visually riveting... throughout its nearly six minutes we see several scenes featuring the main character Diana Prince... in which she transforms into the famed superhero.\". The exhibit currently resides in New York's Museum of Modern Art.\n\nWonder Woman's origin, the invention of the lie detector and the unconventional \"troika\" marriage between Dr. Marston, Elizabeth Holloway Marston and Olive Byrne are interwoven in a 2014 production, \"Lasso of Truth\". The last act engages two current-day characters discussing what Wonder Woman means to them individually, reflecting on her influence on society in general.\n\nImages of and references to Wonder Woman abound in film. The apparent first appearance of the character was in the 1969 film \"Midnight Cowboy\" wherein a little girl covers her face with a copy of DC Comics' Wonder Woman #178. Later appearances have female (and male) characters of all ages appearing in Wonder Woman's costume or T-shirt representations of said costume. Wonder Woman entered the cultural lexicon, as characters were compared to Wonder Woman due to their athletic prowess, beauty and/or height.\n\nCobie Smulders performed the voice for Wonder Woman in 2014's \"The Lego Movie\". Wonder Woman reappeared briefly as a non-speaking character in follow-up \"The Lego Batman Movie\" (2017).\n\nThe first live action theatrical film featuring Wonder Woman was 2016's \"\". The second was 2017's \"Wonder Woman\".\n\n\"Professor Marston and the Wonder Women\" is a 2017 film about American psychologist William Moulton Marston, who created Wonder Woman. The film, directed and written by Angela Robinson, stars Luke Evans as Marston, Rebecca Hall as his legal wife Elizabeth and Bella Heathcote as Olive Byrne, their lover and the third member of their closed polyamorous triad. However, in an interview with Mark Walters, William Moulton Marston’s granddaughter Christie Marston stated that the film is historically inaccurate. She said that the creators of the film did not contact her family and that the “depiction of the family and Wonder Woman’s origins are made up”. She also posted a statement on Twitter saying that \"the film is not a true story. It is based on someone's imagination not in any way related to my family.\" In another interview with Rob Salkowitz for \"Forbes\", Marston argues against two aspects of the film. The first lies in the depiction of Elizabeth and Olive: “The relationship between Gram [Elizabeth Marston] and Dots [Olive Byrne] is wrong; they were as sisters, not lovers.” The second part revolves around the depiction of the origin of Wonder Woman, which has “William Moulton Marston presenting an idea for a female hero, and Elizabeth naysaying the idea, declaring that nobody would ever publish it.” Christie Marston states instead that when her grandfather was asked by his publisher to create a comic character, he “went home and discussed it with my grandmother. She said to go ahead and do it, but that it had to be a woman.” Marston further elaborates on Elizabeth and Olive by stating that she spent a lot of time with her open-minded grandmother who never gave indication to her of a relationship with Olive. She also states that Elizabeth and Olive continued to share the responsibilities for bringing up the four children in the household after Marston's death because it was economically viable for both women. Christie Marston repeated and elaborated upon these statements in an op-ed for \"The Hollywood Reporter.\"\n\nIn his book, \"Seduction of the Innocent\", psychiatrist and anti-comic book crusader Fredric Wertham wrote that Wonder Woman had a bondage subtext to her character, a claim somewhat strengthened by the character's creator, William Moulton Marston having admitted as much. As well, Wertham also claimed Wonder Woman's strength and independence made her a lesbian, calling the \"homosexual connotation of the Wonder Woman type of story is psychologically unmistakable\", and considered Wonder Woman to be \"Lesbian counterpart of Batman\" Wertham notes in the Chapter \"Those Wicked Men\" in that Wonder Woman's sidekicks, students at the fictional, all-woman Holliday College are the 'Holliday girls,' i.e. the holiday girls, the gay party girls, the gay girls.\" The chapter title references a comic book story wherein another princess talks about \"those wicked men\". \"For boys\", writes Wertham, \"Wonder Woman is a frightening image. For girls she is a morbid ideal. Where Batman is anti-feminine, the attractive Wonder Woman and her counterparts are definitely anti-masculine.\"\n\nThis sentiment would be later echoed by other critics. Short story author and cultural historian Jim Harmon describes in his 1970 book, \"All in Color For a Dime\" how Wonder Woman would \"exchange hugs and kisses of delight with the readily available Holliday Girls.\" Harmon adds, \"It was a very sick scene.\" This recollection by Harmon is disputed by comic book artist and writer, Trina Robbins. She notes that \"although Wonder Woman is indeed seen hugging her friends and her mother in the pages of these comics (women do hug!), she doesn't kiss them. She's never even depicted kissing her \"boyfriend,\" Steve Trevor!\"\n\nRobert Kanigher, who took over writing the comic in 1948 after the death of creator William Moulton Marston as well as later creating other female superheroines such as Black Canary, Lady Cop, Rose and Thorn and The Harlequin confided to Robbins in a telephone interview that the Amazons from her home, Paradise Island (where no men are permitted) were all lesbians.\n\nGloria Steinem chose an image of Wonder Woman for the first cover of \"Ms. magazine\" in July, 1972, and again for the cover of the July–August 1997 issue. In the latter example, the retrospective issue depicts an illustrated version of the modernized version of Wonder Woman is reading a copy of the original \"Ms.\" magazine, its cover showing the Golden Age representation of the character. As well, magazine covers formed a collage of Wonder Woman on the cover of the 35th anniversary issue of \"Ms.\" magazine in 2007.\n\nWonder Woman iconic nature has filtered into American television, references appearing in the form of impersonations, costume and character references. These abound in live programming such as \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"Charmed\", \"Frasier\", \"Friends\", and \"30 Rock\". As well, she is referred to often in animated programming, such as \"The Simpsons\", \"Family Guy\" and \"Robot Chicken\".\n\nPrior to the more widely known Lynda Carter Wonder Woman series, a made-for-TV movie was broadcast in 1974, starring Cathy Lee Crosby as Wonder Woman, playing the character as a blond in a star-spangled red & blue costume which featured a skirt & tights rather than the comic costume. In the film, she uses her powers to thwart an international spy ring headed by Ricardo Montalban. Her invisible plane is mentioned in passing.\n\nLynda Carter, the actress who portrayed Wonder Woman in the series of the same name from 1975-1979, appeared on a 1976 televised Olivia Newton-John Special as the character wherein she deflects a bullet meant for Olivia. In 1980, Carter appeared in an episode of Jim Henson's television series \"The Muppet Show\". Her performances were singing \"The Rubberband Man\" and \"Orange Colored Sky\". During a skit, Miss Piggy becomes \"Wonder Pig\" in order to rescue her family from a giant-sized chicken. Carter continues to be identified with the character thirty years after the portrayals. \n\"The Wendy Williams Show\"s host Wendy Williams often drinks from various Wonder Woman coffee mugs throughout the series (having the same initials of 'WW'). In 2010, when DC Comics revamped the character with a new costume, Wendy had a 10-minute segment discussing the change and explained why she didn't care for it.\n\nAt Backlash, in 2016 Nikki Bella was dressed like Wonder Woman.\n\nFeminist activist Gloria Steinem, who grew up reading Wonder Woman comics, was a key player in the restoration of Wonder Woman's powers and traditional costume, which were restored in issue #204 (January–February 1973). Steinem, offended that the most famous female superhero had been depowered, had placed Wonder Woman (in costume) on the cover of the first issue of the American feminist magazine \"Ms.\" (1972) – Warner Communications, DC Comics' owner, was an investor – which also contained an appreciative essay about the character.\n\nWonder Woman also appeared on the cover of the July–August 1997 issue of \"Ms.\" In the latter example, the retrospective issue depicts an illustrated version of the modernized version of Wonder Woman reading a copy of the original \"Ms.\" magazine, its cover showing the Golden Age representation of the character. As well, magazine covers formed a collage of Wonder Woman on the cover of the 35th anniversary issue of \"Ms.\" magazine in 2007. \nSteinem once wrote:\n\nOn October 21, 2016, the United Nations named Wonder Woman a UN Honorary Ambassador for the Empowerment of Women and Girls in a ceremony attended by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Lynda Carter, and Gal Gadot.\n\nOn October 26, 2017, Hillary Clinton was given the first Women's Media Center Wonder Woman Award.\n\nWonder Woman's image—along with that of Superman—was used in an AIDS awareness campaign by French organization AIDES. Posters depicting Wonder Woman wasting away in a hospital bed and attached to an intravenous drip were exhibited on billboards and in French subways, demonstrating that no-one is beyond the reach of the disease. Concerned that the images could have an adverse impact on the public perception of the two superheroes, DC Comics demanded that AIDES withdraw the campaign.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7527127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7527127", "title": "Daniel O'Daly", "text": "Daniel O'Daly\n\nDaniel O'Daly (1595 – 30 June 1662), also known as Dominic Ó Dálaigh and Dominic de Rosario, was an Irish diplomat and historian.\nHe was born in Kerry, Ireland; on his mother's side he belonged to the Desmond branch of the Geraldines, of which branch his paternal ancestors, the ], were the hereditary chroniclers or bards. He became a Dominican in Tralee, in County Kerry; took his vows in Lugo, studied at Burgos (both in Spain), where he assumed the name Dominic de Rosario, gained his doctorate of theology in Bordeaux and returned as priest to Tralee.\nIn 1627 he was sent to teach theology in the newly established College for Irish Dominicans at Louvain University in Flanders. In 1629 he went to Madrid on business connected with this college and, seeing that king Philip IV of Spain favoured the project, he established, assisted by three of his Irish brethren, the Irish Dominican College in Lisbon (Portugal) of which he became the first rector. He conceived the project of erecting, near Lisbon, a convent of Irish Dominican nuns, to serve as a refuge in time of persecution. Philip granted permission to do so on condition that he should raise a body of Irish soldiers for Spanish service in the Low Countries. O'Daly set sail for Limerick and got the men. On his return to Madrid in 1639, Santa Maria de Belém on the Tagus, four miles below Lisbon, was selected as a site and, with the assistance of the Countess of Atalaya, the convent of Our Lady of Bom Successo was built. The king had such confidence in him that he made him diplomatic envoy to Charles I of England, to the exiled Charles II Stuart and to Pope Innocent X (1650). The Queen of Portugal also sent him as envoy to Pope Alexander VIII. \n\nIn the year 1655 he was sent as envoy from king John IV of Portugal to the French queen Anne of Austria and king Louis XIV to conclude a treaty between Portugal and France. Here as elsewhere, success attended him; but while negotiations abroad and matters of government at home afforded opportunities of serving the Portuguese royal House of Braganza, he would not accept any honour in return. His acquaintances praise his straightforwardness, honesty, tact and disinterestedness. He refused the Archbishopric of Braga, the Primacy of Goa and the Bishopric of Coimbra; nor would he accept the titles of Privy Councillor or Queen's Confessor, though he held both offices.\nDuring these years his chief concern was to put his college on a firm basis and to make it render the greatest possible service to Ireland. Bom Successo became too small for the number of students. In 1659 he laid the first stone of a larger building, which was called Corpo Santo. To provide funds for these houses he consented to become Bishop of Coimbra and, in consequence, President of the royal Privy Council; but before the papal Bull arrived he died at Lisbon in 1662. \n\nHis remains reposed in the cloister of Corpo Santo until the earthquake of 1755; the inscription on his tomb recorded that he was \"In varus Regum legationibus felix, ... Vir Prudentia, Litteris, and Religione conspicuus\" (\"Successful in embassies for kings ... A man distinguished for prudence, knowledge and virtue\".) A few years after the catastrophe, on the same spot, with the same name and object, a new college and church arose.\n\nIn 1665 he published \"Initium, Incrementum, et Exitus Familiæ Geraldinorum, etc.\", on the Earls of Desmond, for which he availed himself of the traditional knowledge of his ancestors. In the first part he describes the origin of the Munster Geraldines, their varying fortunes and their end in the heroic struggle for faith and fatherland. The second part treats of the cruelties inflicted on the Irish Catholics, and of the martyrdom of twenty Dominicans, many of whom had been with him in Lisbon. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24758771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24758771", "title": "Dioceses of the Church of the East after 1552", "text": "Dioceses of the Church of the East after 1552\n\nAfter the schism of 1552 of the Church of the East, the secessions the Chaldean Catholic Church and the Assyrian Church of the East each had around twelve dioceses each by the end of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1552 a section of the Church of the East rebelled against the patriarch Shemon VII Ishoyahb (1539–58) and elected a rival patriarch, Yohannan Sulaqa (1553–5). The rebellion created a permanent schism in the Church of the East.\n\nRome was told that the prime movers in the rebellion in 1552 against the patriarch Shemon VII Ishoyahb were unnamed bishops of Erbil, Salmas and Adarbaigan, who were supported by many priests and monks from Baghdad, Kirkuk, Gazarta, Nisibis, Mardin, Amid, Hesna d'Kifa 'and many other nearby places'; while according to Leonard Abel, writing in 1587, Yohannan Sulaqa's support came primarily from the towns of Amid and Seert and the neighbouring country districts. Sulaqa is said to have consecrated five metropolitans and bishops during his brief patriarchate. They were almost certainly the metropolitans Eliya Asmar and Abdisho Maron, consecrated by Sulaqa for Amid and Gazarta respectively in 1554, Sulaqa's brother Joseph, consecrated for Seert but soon afterwards sent to India, and the metropolitans Gabriel of Hesna d’Kifa and Hnanisho of Mardin.\n\nAccording to Leonard Abel, Abdisho IV Maron 'created many priests, bishops and archbishops, and many towns of Nestorian Chaldeans previously loyal to his rival placed themselves under his authority'. Abel may have gained this impression from a notorious letter which accompanied a Catholic profession of faith sent by Abdisho to pope Pius IV in 1562. This letter, which survives in three slightly different Latin translations of a lost Syriac original, purports to contain a list of thirty-eight metropolitans and bishops who recognised his authority:\nI, Abdisho, son of Yohannan, of the house of Mari of the city of Gazarta on the Tigris river, was once a monk of the monastery of Saint Anthony and of the brothers Mar Ahha and Mar Yohannan, but am now, thanks to God and to the Apostolic See, Primate or Patriarch of the eastern city of Mosul in Athor, under whose jurisdiction are many metropolitans and bishops. These include the metropolis of \"Arbel\" [Erbil], and the dioceses of \"Sirava\" [Shirawa] and \"Hancava\" [Aïnqawa]; the metropolis of \"Cheptian\" [Telkepe] and the dioceses of \"Charamleys\" [Karamlish] and \"Achusch\" [Alqosh]; the metropolis of \"Nassibin\" [Nisibis], and the dioceses of \"Macchazin\", \"Tallescani\" and Mardin; the metropolis of Seert and the diocese of \"Azzen\" [Hesna d'Kifa]; the metropolis of \"Elchessen\" [Gazarta] and the dioceses of \"Zuch\" [Zakho] and \"Mesciara\" [Mansuriya]; the metropolis of \"Gurgel\" [Gwerkel] and the diocese of \"Esci\" [Shakh]; and the metropolis of \"Amed\" [Amid] and the dioceses of \"Chiaruchia\" [Sharukhiya], \"Hain\" and \"Tannur\" [Aïn Tannur]. All these regions are under Turkish rule.\n\nAlso the metropolis of \"Ormi Superior\" [Upper Urmi], and the dioceses of \"Ulcismi\" and \"Chuchia\"; the metropolis of \"Ormi Inferior\" [Lower Urmi] and the dioceses of \"Dutra\", \"Saldos\" [Sulduz] and \"Escinuc\" [Eshnuq]; the metropolis of \"Espurgan\" [Supurghan] and the dioceses of \"Nare\" [Neri] and \"Giennum\" [Gawilan?]; the metropolis of Salmas, and the dioceses of \"Baumar\", \"Sciabathan\" [Shapatan] and \"Vasthan\" [Wastan]. All these regions are subject to the emperor (or Sophi, as he is usually known) of the Persians.\n\nFurthermore in India, subject to the Portuguese, are the metropolitan dioceses of Cochin, Cranganore, and Goa; and the diocese of Calicut, which also includes the Coromandel region, still in the hands of heathen natives.\nThe status of this letter has long been recognised as problematical, as the fourth Catholic patriarch Shemon IX Denha had only fourteen bishops in 1580, and it is unlikely that Abdisho had a far larger hierarchy several years earlier. The locations of the fourteen metropolitan sees listed (with the exception of Telkepe) have a certain plausibility, but several of the suffragan dioceses were little more than villages. None of them, as far as is known, had previously been the seat of a bishop, and the bishops they supposedly had in 1562 are not mentioned in any other source. It is possible that Abdisho merely claimed to have fourteen dioceses (the same number as his successor), whose metropolitans or bishops were responsible for the various localities listed under each metropolis, and that the translator misunderstood his meaning. Alternatively, he may have deliberately exaggerated the size of his hierarchy to impress the Vatican. In either case, while perhaps confirming the existence of East Syriac communities in certain districts and villages at this period and indicating the areas where Abdisho claimed support, the letter cannot be trusted as evidence for the number of bishops in his hierarchy.\n\nAs a guide to Abdisho’s support the letter must be treated with caution. His claim to the western districts (Amid, Mardin and Seert had Catholic bishops, and he also controlled the monasteries of Mar Pethion in the Mardin district and Mar Yaqob the Recluse in the Seert district) was perfectly reasonable, and he certainly had two metropolitans in India. His claim to the Erbil, Urmi and Salmas districts may also have been justified, in view of the support for Sulaqa from their bishops. Alqosh, however, was the stronghold of his rival Shemon VII Ishoyahb, who also controlled Telkepe and Karamlish. Abdisho perhaps felt obliged, as 'patriarch of Mosul', to assert a claim to the Mosul district, and may have had a bishop nominally responsible for the villages of the Mosul plain.\n\nSeveral metropolitans and bishops mentioned in other sources can be plausibly assigned to Abdisho's hierarchy, and it is interesting to notice that their dioceses match many of the metropolitan dioceses listed by Abdisho in 1562: Sulaqa's brother Joseph, metropolitan of Seert, responsible also for India from 1555; Eliya Asmar, metropolitan of Amid from 1554 to 1582; Abraham, metropolitan of Angamale in India; Hnanisho, metropolitan of Nisibis and Mardin; the future patriarch Shemon VIII Yahballaha, metropolitan of Gazarta; Yohannan of Atel and Bohtan (Abdisho's 'Gwerkel'), martyred in 1572; the future patriarch Shemon IX Denha, metropolitan of Salmas, Seert and Jilu; and Gabriel (and perhaps his successor Sabrisho), bishop of Hesna d'Kifa.\n\nThe Nestorian patriarch Shemon VII Ishoyahb (1539–58), who continued to reside in the monastery of Rabban Hormizd, the traditional patriarchal seat, responded to Sulaqa's challenge by consecrating two metropolitans, Ishoyahb for Nisibis, nominally with jurisdiction also over Amid and Mardin, and Joseph for Gazarta. Ishoyahb was probably unable to exercise his authority in Amid and Mardin, both of which had Catholic metropolitans, but Joseph seems to have been accepted in Gazarta. Shemon's nephew Eliya remained metropolitan of Mosul and \"natar kursya\", and the Mosul and Amadiya districts certainly remained loyal to Shemon VII. Several years later his successor Eliya VII (1558–91) had a hierarchy of at least six bishops: his brother Hnanisho, metropolitan of Mosul and \"natar kursya\"; Yahballaha, metropolitan of Berwari; Joseph and Gabriel, bishops of Gazarta; Ishoyahb, metropolitan of Nisibis, and Yohannan, metropolitan of Urmi. Mosul was the chief Nestorian citadel, and Leonard Abel remarked in 1587 that although Sulaqa and his three successors had all been consecrated patriarchs 'of Mosul', none had been able to wrest the city from their Nestorian rivals. It now became customary in the Mosul patriarchate for the patriarch's \"natar kursya\" to be also metropolitan of Mosul.\n\nThe fourth Catholic patriarch Shemon IX Denha (1581–1600), under pressure from his Nestorian rival Eliya VII, abandoned the western centres of Amid and Mardin which had supported the union with Rome, and governed his church from the remote monastery of Mar Yohannan in the Salmas district. During his own lifetime he retained the loyalty of the western bishops, and strengthened the hierarchy he had inherited by creating several new dioceses beyond the western districts. His supporters, mentioned in a letter of 1580 to pope Gregory XIII shortly after his consecration, included not only the western bishops Eliya of Amid, Hnanisho of Mardin, Joseph of Seert, Yohannan of Atel and Joseph of Gazarta, (earlier loyal to Eliya VII), but also the metropolitans Joseph of Salmas, Sargis of Jilu, Hnanisho of Shemsdin, Abdisho of 'Koma', three men (two named Denha and one named Addaï) listed merely as metropolitans, and the bishop Yohannan of 'Chelhacke'. 'Koma' was probably the monastery of Mar Abdisho near the village of Komane in the Amadiya district, while 'Chelhacke' may be a deformation of Slokh (ܣܠܘܟ), the Syriac name for Kirkuk.\n\nThe allegiance of several districts shifted dramatically on the accession of the traditionalist patriarch Shemon X in 1600, who divided his residence between Salmas and Qudshanis. Shemon’s return to the old faith was welcomed in some districts, enabling him to consecrate bishops for the Atel and Berwari districts, previously dependent on the Mosul patriarchs. On the other hand, the western bishops transferred their loyalty to the Mosul patriarch Eliya VIII, mainly because he was felt to be more enthusiastic for the union with Rome than his rival, but perhaps also because they did not wish to be governed by a patriarch unable or unwilling to leave the remote Salmas district. These shifts gave the Mosul patriarchate control of a wide swathe of lowland territory stretching from Amid to Erbil, including the important towns of Amid, Seert, Gazarta, Amadiya, Mosul and Alqosh, while Shemon X was left with the mountain districts of Bohtan, Berwari and Hakkari, and the Urmi district.\n\nThe hierarchies of the two patriarchs were given in the report of 1610. In 1610 Eliya VIII had six metropolitans (Eliya of Amid, Gabriel of Hesna d'Kifa, Yaqob of Nisibis, Joseph of Gazarta, Hnanisho of Mosul and the \"natar kursya\" Shemon), and nine bishops (Denha of Gwerkel, Yohannan of Abnaye, Ephrem of the Atel diocese of 'Ungi', Ishoyahb of Seert, Yohannan of Atel, Abdisho of Salmas, Joseph of Shemsdin, Abraham of Raikan and Abraham of 'the mountains'). This was a considerably larger hierarchy than his predecessors possessed, but all the metropolitans and several of the bishops are attested elsewhere, and there is no need to doubt its genuineness. Some of the dioceses are not mentioned again, and at least one bishop, Ishoyahb of Seert, was the nephew and \"natar kursya\" of a metropolitan, for whom an \"ad hoc\" diocese had to be created. Shemon X had only five metropolitans (Hnanisho of Shemsdin, Sargis of Jilu, Ishoyahb of 'the Persian borders', Sabrisho of Berwari and the \"natar kursya\" Addaï), and three bishops (Joseph of Urmi, Giwargis of Sat and Abdisho of Atel).\n\nOther sources mention several other bishops at this period. Although the two reports largely overlap, the report of 1607 mentions several bishops omitted from the report of 1610, including the metropolitans 'Glanan Imech' of Sinjar, Shemon of Erbil, Denha of Lewun, Yahballaha of Van and Shemon of Albaq; and the bishops Joseph of Nahrawan, Yohannan of 'Vorce', Yahballaha of Berwari and Abraham of Tergawar. The report did not mention their allegiances, but Yahballaha of Berwari is known to have been dependent on Eliya VIII, and it is likely that the metropolitans of Sinjar and Erbil were also among his hierarchy. The metropolitans Hnanisho of Van and Abraham of the Persian district of 'Vehdonfores', probably the bishop of Tergawar mentioned in 1607, were present at Eliya VIII's synod of Amid in 1616.\n\nThe reports of 1607 and 1610 also mentioned that the Church of the East used to have more than a hundred 'monasteries', and listed more than forty separate buildings still in use at the beginning of the 17th century, most of which can be readily identified. The term 'monastery' seems to have been used by the Vatican scribes to translate the Syriac word \"umra\", which could also mean a large church, and at least eleven of these 'monasteries' (particularly those in the mountainous Hakkari district), were merely churches (Mar Giwargis in Gazarta, Mar Pinhas in Hawsar, Mar Abdisho in Nerem, Mar Tahmasgard, Mar Pethion and Mar Thomas in Kirkuk, Mar Giwargis in Ashitha, Mar Shallita in Qudshanis, Mar Abdisho and Mar Qardagh in Beth Aziza, Mar Pethion in Mazraa, Mar Zaya in Matha d'Mar Zaya and perhaps others). Others, however, were genuine monasteries, and manuscript colophons confirm that many of them did indeed have monks at this period.\n\nThe genuine monasteries in the two lists (the monasteries of Mar Awgin, Mar Abraham of Kashkar, Mar Yaqob the Recluse, Mar Yohannan the Egyptian, Mar Ahha, Rabban Bar Idta, Mar Yaqob of Beth ʿAbe, Mar Mikha'il, Mar Eliya of Hirta, Rabban Hormizd the Persian and Mar Sabrisho of Beth Qoqa), all of which had long and proud histories, were all loyal to Eliya VIII at this period. The colophons of the surviving manuscripts confirm that monasticism was practised to a significant extent in the Mosul patriarchate up to the middle of the 18th century and that it hardly existed in the Qudshanis patriarchate. About 30 Nestorian monks are known from the monasteries of the Mosul patriarchate between 1552 and 1743 (when the monastery of Rabban Hormizd was temporarily abandoned), and about 150 Catholic monks in the Chaldean monasteries after 1808. Of the many scribes known from the Qudshanis patriarchate, only one, the 19th-century solitary Rabban Yonan, described himself as a monk.\n\nThe possession of these important monasteries gave the Mosul patriarchate access to the talents of a literate and educated elite, and the treasures of East Syriac literature preserved in their libraries gave an impetus to the scribal profession and probably encouraged the growth of the great scribal families of Alqosh. There were, of course, literate scribes and priests and old manuscripts to be found in the Qudshanis patriarchate, but far fewer. The existence of an educated elite of scribes and monks, coupled with the descent of its patriarchs from the old patriarchal family, gave the Mosul patriarchs a prestige (fully appreciated by the Vatican) which its Qudshanis rivals could never hope to match.\n\nEliya IX (1617–60) did not consecrate bishops for the historic dioceses of Erbil, Nisibis, and Hesna d’Kifa, probably because their East Syriac communities were no longer large enough to need a bishop, and during his reign the Mosul patriarchate consisted of six metropolitan dioceses: Amid, Mardin, Gazarta, Seert, Mosul and Salmas. Although he corresponded cordially with the Vatican, he was not prepared to abandon the traditional Nestorian christological formula. As Shemon X had similar reservations, the Catholic communities in the Church of the East were left without Catholic bishops for several decades.\n\nThe extent of the Qudshanis patriarchate in the middle of the 17th century is known from a letter of 29 June 1653 from the patriarch Shemon XI to pope Innocent X:\nMany indeed are the Chaldean Christians under Mar Shemon, in the following regions: Julmar (Julamerk), Barur [Barwar d’Qudshanis], Gur (Gawar), Galu (Jilu), Baz, Dasen, Tachuma (Tkhuma), Jatira (Tiyari), Valta (Walto), Talig (Tal), Batnura (Beth Tannura, i.e. Berwari), Luun (Lewun), Nudis (Norduz), Salmes (Salmas), Albac (Albaq), Hasaph (Hoshab), Van (Van), Vasgan (Wastan), Arne (Neri), Suphtan (Shapatan), Targur (Tergawar), Urmi, Anzel, Saldus (Sulduz), Asnock (Eshnuq), Margo (Mergawar), Amid and ‘Gulnca’. In these regions are 40,000 families, all children of the cell of Mar Shemon.\nAs expected, most of the localities listed are in the Hakkari and Urmi districts, but Amid and Van are interesting inclusions. Both districts were dependent on the patriarch Eliya VIII earlier in the century, but their dependence around the middle of the 17th century on the Qudshanis patriarchate, probably because of Shemon XI's Catholic sympathies, is confirmed by several colophons. With these two exceptions, the Qudshanis patriarchate covered roughly the same area in 1653 as it had in 1610. The figure of 40,000 families seems far too high.\n\nA number of bishops of the Qudshanis patriarchate are mentioned in the colophons to manuscripts, and their names and the names of their sees foreshadow the organisation described by western observers in the middle of the 19th century. There are frequent references throughout the 18th century to metropolitans named Hnanisho, who sat at the village of Mar Isho in the Shemsdin district, and whose jurisdiction covered both the Shemsdin and Tergawar districts. Colophons also refer to bishops of Berwari named Ishoyahb, a bishop of Gawar in 1743 named Sliba, and a bishop of Jilu in 1756 named Sargis. Khidr of Mosul mentioned a number of bishops from the Urmi district in 1734, also with names which are paralleled in the 19th century: Gabriel, Yohannan, Abdisho, Joseph, Abraham and Ishaya.\n\nReports made in the 1830s and 1840s by a number of English and American observers (particularly Grant, Ainsworth, and Badger) mention at least fourteen dioceses in the Qudshanis patriarchate. Besides a large diocese in central Kurdistan under the direct control of the patriarch and the diocese of Shemsdin, under the \"mutran\" Hnanisho, there were three traditional dioceses in Turkey, Berwari, Gawar and Jilu, whose bishops (Mar Ishoyahb, Mar Sliba and Mar Sargis) sat in the villages of Dure, Gagoran and Matha d’Mar Zaya respectively. In the 1840s there was also a short-lived Nestorian diocese of 'Zibar and the Mezuri' in the Aqra district, whose metropolitan, Mar Abraham, sat in the village of Nerem (Gunduk). This diocese is not mentioned again, and seems to have lapsed after the creation of the Chaldean diocese of Aqra. There was also a Nestorian diocese for the Gazarta district, whose metropolitan, Mar Joseph, sat in the monastery of Isaac of Nineveh near Shakh before his death in 1846, and in 1850 there were two other Nestorian bishops in the Atel district, Mar Shemon and Mar Thomas. According to Badger the mutran Hnanisho had three suffragan bishops, 'whose dioceses include the districts of Ter Gawar, Mar Gawar, Somâva, Bradnostai, and Mahmedayeh'. One of these suffragans appears to have been Mar Abraham, who sat at the village of Armutaghaj in the Urmia plain and was responsible for a number of villages in the Tergawar district until his death in 1833. Another suffragan bishop, who acted as the mutran’s deputy, sat at Tis in Khumaru.\n\nThere were also four dioceses in the Urmia district of Persia, whose bishops (Mar Yohannan, Mar Joseph, Mar Gabriel and Mar Eliya) sat at Gawilan and Ada in the Anzel district, and Ardishai and Gugtapah in the Baranduz district respectively. While the dioceses of Mar Yohannan and Mar Gabriel each contained numerous villages, and appear to have been traditional, the other two bishops were responsible only for the large villages where they sat, and their dioceses may have been created \"ad personam\".\n\nIn the second half of the nineteenth century the Nestorian episcopate continued to develop. In the Urmia district the dioceses of Ada and Gugtapah seem to have lapsed on the death of their incumbents. The two principal dioceses, Anzel and Ardishai, continued, and a new diocese was established for the large Anzel village of Supurghan, whose bishop, Mar Yonan, joined the Russian Orthodox Church in 1898. The Sulduz district was detached from the diocese of Ardishai and given its own bishop. Other bishops are mentioned in other sources. In the Bohtan district a Nestorian bishop sat at Eqror, a village not far from Zakho, and another in the monastery of Mar Quriaqos in the village of Elan. In 1891 an unnamed Nestorian bishop is also recorded at Zoghget, in the Arzun district. A Nestorian bishop is also said to have been living in the Berwari village of Aqri.\n\nGiven the resources it controlled, it is hardly surprising that the 17th century was a period of solid achievement for the Mosul patriarchate. The Catholic movement lost its vigour in both patriarchates and although the conversion of the Nestorian bishop Joseph in Amid in 1672 revived Catholic hopes, this unexpected development came after several decades in which the Mosul patriarchs had recovered their old authority in the western districts, consecrating Nestorian bishops for the Catholic dioceses founded by Sulaqa a century earlier. Scribal activity, previously concentrated in the Gazarta district, shifted to Mosul, to the nearby villages of Telkepe and Tel Isqof, and above all to Alqosh, whose Shikwana and Nasro families emerged in the second half of the century to establish a dominance which was not seriously challenged until the second half of the 19th century.\n\nNevertheless, the Catholic movement prospered in the western districts after the Ottoman authorities recognised Joseph of Amid as an independent patriarch in 1681. Between 1681 and 1830 there were three East Syriac patriarchates, two Nestorian and one Catholic. For the newly created Amid patriarchate, the 18th century was one of almost unbroken success. At the beginning of the century it had only a single metropolitan, for Amid itself. Although rebuffed in an attempt to consecrate the Catholic priest Khidr metropolitan of Mosul in 1724, Joseph III consecrated metropolitans for Mardin and Seert before his departure for Rome in 1731, bringing over many East Syriac Christians in the Seert region from their previous dependence on the Eliya line, and also secured recognition for the Catholic minorities in Mosul and the villages of the Mosul plain. In 1757 Lazar Hindi, the Chaldean metropolitan of Amid, estimated that there were just under 20,000 Catholics in the Amid patriarchate, of whom about 8,000 lived in the Amid and Mardin regions, 5,000 in the Seert region, and 6,000 in Mosul and the Mosul plain. As the East Syriac population of the Mosul patriarchate at this period is unlikely to have exceeded 50,000, of whom perhaps 10,000 lived in the Mosul region, the Catholics were by then probably in the majority in and around Mosul. The scale of the Catholic penetration doubtless encouraged Eliya XII to open negotiations with the Vatican in the 1770s, and Yohannan Hormizd to convert to Catholicism.\n\nIn 1796 Fulgence de Sainte Marie, apostolic vicar of Baghdad, visited Amid and Mosul and recorded the following statistics in respect of the two patriarchates.\n\nBy the beginning of the 18th century the Mosul patriarchate had lost its influence in the Catholic strongholds of Amid and Mardin, but still retained the loyalty of a considerable section of the Church of the East which wished to remain Nestorian. It is clear from manuscript colophons that most of the numerous East Syriac villages in the Seert, Gazarta, Amadiya and Aqra districts were still Nestorian and loyal to the Eliya line at this period, as were the surviving East Syriac communities in the Erbil and Kirkuk districts. Mosul and several villages of the Mosul plain had important Catholic communities, but the Nestorians remained in the majority, and the monastery of Rabban Hormizd remained a Nestorian citadel until it was abandoned in the 1740s. Curiously, the Mosul patriarchate had very few bishops to administer these large territories. Apart from the patriarch himself and his \"natar kursya\", responsible for the Mosul district, only Gazarta and Seert had bishops at the beginning of the century, and no effort appears to have been made to consolidate the loyalty of other districts by giving them bishops. The policy of Eliya XII seems to have been to preserve the status quo. He responded sharply to an attempt by Joseph III to consecrate a Catholic metropolitan for Mosul in 1724, and after the consecration of the Catholic bishop Shemon Kemo for Seert around 1730 sent a Nestorian bishop to the district during Joseph’s absence in Rome. On both occasions, however, he was merely reacting to a Catholic challenge. This inertia was an important factor in the ultimate success of the Catholic movement.\n\nOn 11 October 1779 the recently enthroned patriarch Eliya XIII Ishoyahb wrote to the Qudshanis patriarch Shemon XV seeking information for a report to the Vatican. In his letter he mentioned that a synod had recently been held at Alqosh under his presidency, at which the following seven bishops were present: the metropolitan and \"natar kursya\" Mar Ishoyahb; the 'elderly' Mar Hnanisho, metropolitan of Nuhadra [Amadiya]; Mar Shemon, bishop of Sinjar and Mosul; Mar Yahballaha, bishop of Gazarta; Mar Denha, bishop of Aqra; Mar Saba, bishop of 'Beth Zabe'; and Mar Ishosabran, bishop of Erbil. This is a puzzling list, as only the metropolitan Hnanisho is mentioned elsewhere, but it may be genuine and reflect a reaction by Eliya XIII Ishoyahb to the conservative policy of his uncle Eliya XII Denha. The diocese of Beth Zabe, not elsewhere attested, was probably the Tiyari district around the Great Zab, whose most famous church was dedicated to Mar Saba. Although the Tiyari district was under the control of the Shemon line by the middle of the 19th century, a number of manuscripts were copied at Alqosh for Tiyari villages in the second half of the 18th century, indicating that they looked towards Mosul at that time. Some of the bishops mentioned may have been young \"natar kursyas\", for whom \"ad hoc\" dioceses had to be created until a vacancy in one of the traditional dioceses occurred.\n\nDuring the turbulent reign of Yohannan Hormizd (1780–1830 as patriarchal administrator, 1830–7 as patriarch) Catholic metropolitans were consecrated for Amadiya, Kirkuk and Salmas, and a Nestorian metropolitan of Gazarta consecrated by Eliya XII was supplanted by the Catholic metropolitan Giwargis Di Natale. From 1812 onwards, during Yohannan's suspension, the Amid and Mosul patriarchates were effectively governed as a single entity by the patriarchal administrator Augustine Hindi. In 1830 the patriarchates were united, giving Yohannan Hormizd a hierarchy of eight dioceses with Catholic bishops: Amid, Mardin, Seert, Gazarta, Mosul, Amadiya, Kirkuk and Salmas. The task for the Chaldean church thereafter was to consolidate its position in the border districts of (Gazarta, Amadiya and Aqra), many of whose villages were still Nestorian and wished to remain so. Around the middle of the 19th century several villages in the Gazarta and Aqra districts were willing to follow Nestorian bishops supported by the Qudshanis patriarch Shemon XVII Abraham, abandoning their traditional loyalty to the Mosul patriarchate.\n\nDespite the internal discords of the reigns of Yohannan Hormizd, Nicholas I Zaya and Joseph VI Audo, the second half of the 19th century was a period of considerable growth for the Chaldean church, in which its territorial jurisdiction was extended, its hierarchy strengthened and its membership nearly doubled. In 1850 the Anglican missionary George Percy Badger recorded the population of the Chaldean church as 2,743 Chaldean families, or just under 20,000 persons. Badger's figures cannot be squared with the figure of just over 4,000 Chaldean families recorded by Fulgence de Sainte Marie in 1796 nor with slightly later figures provided by Paulin Martin in 1867. Badger is known to have classified as Nestorian a considerable number of villages in the Aqra district which were Chaldean at this period, and he also failed to include several important Chaldean villages in other dioceses. His estimate is almost certainly far too low.\n\nPaulin Martin's statistical survey in 1867, after the creation of the dioceses of Aqra, Zakho, Basra and Sehna by Joseph Audo, recorded a total church membership of 70,268, more than three times higher than Badger's estimate. Most of the population figures in these statistics have been rounded up to the nearest thousand, and they may also have been exaggerated slightly, but the membership of the Chaldean church at this period was certainly closer to 70,000 than to Badger's 20,000.\n\nA statistical survey of the Chaldean church made in 1896 by J. B. Chabot included, for the first time, details of several patriarchal vicariates established in the second half of the 19th century for the small Chaldean communities in Adana, Aleppo, Beirut, Cairo, Damascus, Edessa, Kermanshah and Teheran; for the mission stations established in the 1890s in several towns and villages in the Qudshanis patriarchate; and for the newly created Chaldean diocese of Urmi. According to Chabot, there were mission stations in the town of Serai d’Mahmideh in Taimar and in the Hakkari villages of Mar Behısho, Sat, Zarne and 'Salamakka' (Ragula d'Salabakkan).\n\nThe last pre-war survey of the Chaldean church was made in 1913 by the Chaldean priest Joseph Tfinkdji, after a period of steady growth since 1896. The Chaldean church on the eve of the First World War consisted of the patriarchal archdiocese of Mosul and Baghdad, four other archdioceses (Amid, Kirkuk, Seert and Urmi), and eight dioceses (Aqra, Amadiya, Gazarta, Mardin, Salmas, Sehna, Zakho and the newly created diocese of Van). Five more patriarchal vicariates had been established since 1896 (Ahwaz, Constantinople, Basra, Ashshar and Deir al-Zor), giving a total of twelve vicariates.\n\nTfinkdji's grand total of 101,610 Catholics in 199 villages is slightly exaggerated, as his figures included 2,310 nominal Catholics in twenty-one 'newly converted' or 'semi-Nestorian' villages in the dioceses of Amid, Seert and Aqra, but it is clear that the Chaldean church had grown significantly since 1896. With around 100,000 believers in 1913, the membership of the Chaldean church was only slightly smaller than that of the Qudshanis patriarchate (probably 120,000 East Syriacs at most, including the population of the nominally Russian Orthodox villages in the Urmi district). Its congregations were concentrated in far fewer villages than those of the Qudshanis patriarchate, and with 296 priests, a ratio of roughly three priests for every thousand believers, it was rather more effectively served by its clergy. Only about a dozen Chaldean villages, mainly in the Seert and Aqra districts, did not have their own priests in 1913.\n\nTfinkdji's statistics also highlight the effect on the Chaldean church of the educational reforms of the patriarch Joseph VI Audo. The Chaldean church on the eve of the First World War was becoming less dependent on the monastery of Rabban Hormizd and the College of the Propaganda for the education of its bishops. Seventeen Chaldean bishops were consecrated between 1879 and 1913, of whom only one (Stephen Yohannan Qaynaya) was entirely educated in the monastery of Rabban Hormizd. Six bishops were educated at the College of the Propaganda (Joseph Gabriel Adamo, Thomas Audo, Jeremy Timothy Maqdasi, Isaac Khudabakhash, Theodore Msayeh and Peter Aziz), and the future patriarch Joseph Emmanuel Thomas was trained in the seminary of Ghazir near Beirut. Of the other nine bishops, two (Addaï Scher and Francis David) were trained in the Syro-Chaldean seminary in Mosul, and seven (Philip Yaqob Abraham, Yaqob Yohannan Sahhar, Eliya Joseph Khayyat, Shlemun Sabbagh, Yaqob Awgin Manna, Hormizd Stephen Jibri and Israel Audo) in the patriarchal seminary in Mosul.\n\nMention has already been made of the patriarchal vicariates created by the Chaldean church for its diaspora in the eastern Mediterranean and elsewhere, details of which were given by Chabot in 1896 and by Tfinkdji in 1913. The first vicariate was established for Aleppo in 1872 by the patriarch Joseph VI Audo, and was followed by vicariates for Constantinople in 1885, Cairo in 1890, Adana in 1891, Basra in 1892, Damascus, Beirut, Teheran and Kermanshah in 1895, Deir al-Zor in 1906, Ashshar in 1907 and Ahwaz in 1909. In 1913 the vicariates of Teheran and Kermanshah were vacant, but there were patriarchal vicars for the other eleven vicariates: Paul David, procurator-general of the Antonine order of Saint Hormisdas, for Rome; Isaac Yahballaha Khudabakhash, formerly bishop of Salmas, for Cairo and the small Chaldean community in Alexandria; Abraham Banna for Ahwaz; Thomas Bajari for Constantinople; Mansur Kajaji for Basra; Yohannan Nisan for Ashshar; Stephen Awgin for Deir al-Zor; Mikha'il Chaya for Aleppo; Joseph Tawil for Beirut; Marutha Sliba for Damascus; and Stephen Maksabo for Adana.\n\nMost of the vicariates were small, with chapels instead of churches, but the Chaldean communities of Cairo, Basra and Aleppo were sufficiently wealthy to build substantial churches. The churches in Cairo and Basra were dedicated to Mar Antony and Mar Thomas respectively. The Chaldean community in Beirut, which had neither a church nor a chapel, worshipped in the city's Syriac Catholic church. The vicariate of Adana had a population of 600 Chaldeans in 1896, many of whom were killed during attacks on the city's Armenian Christians in 1909.\n\nReports made in the 1830s and 1840s by a number of English and American visitors (particularly Perkins, Grant, Ainsworth and Badger) mention at least fourteen dioceses in the Qudshanis patriarchate. Besides a large diocese in central Kurdistan under the direct control of the patriarch and the diocese of Shemsdin, under the \"mutran\" Hnanisho, there were dioceses for Berwari, Gawar and Jilu, whose bishops (Ishoyahb, Sliba and Sargis) sat in the villages of Dure, Gagoran and Matha d'Mar Zaya respectively. In the 1840s there was also a short-lived diocese of Aqra and Zibar, whose metropolitan Abraham resided in the village of Nerem. The Gazarta district had a metropolitan, Joseph, who had been obliged to withdraw to the monastery of Isaac of Nineveh near Shakh, where he died in 1846, and in 1850 there were two other Nestorian bishops in the Atel district, Shemon and Thomas. By 1877 the \"mutran\" Hnanisho had three suffragan bishops, probably all consecrated some years earlier, responsible for a number of villages in Shemsdin, Tergawar and elsewhere: Denha of Tis, Yohannan of Tuleki and Sabrisho of Gawar.\nThere were also four dioceses in the Urmi region, whose bishops (Yohannan, Joseph, Gabriel and Eliya) resided at Gawilan and Ada in the Anzel district, and Ardishai and Gugtapah in the Baranduz district respectively. (A fifth bishop, Abraham, resided in the village of Armutaghaj and was responsible for a number of villages in the Tergawar district until his death in 1833.) While the dioceses of Mar Yohannan and Mar Gabriel each contained numerous villages and appear to have been traditional, the other two bishops were responsible only for the large villages where they sat, and their dioceses may also, like the \"mutran\"'s suffragan dioceses, have been created \"ad personam\". By this period the bishops of the historic dioceses regularly took a distinctive name associated with their dioceses (Hnanisho of Shemsdin, Ishoyahb or Yahballaha of Berwari, Sargis of Jilu, Sliba of Gawar, Yohannan of Anzel and Gabriel of Ardishai), and these dioceses were clearly felt to be different from the \"ad personam\" dioceses in the Shemsdin and Urmi districts which existed by their side.\n\nThe Urmi dioceses of Ada and Gugtapah lapsed after the death of their bishops, while a new diocese was established for the large Anzel village of Supurghan in 1874, whose bishop, Yonan, joined the Russian Orthodox Church in 1896 and Russian Ecclesiastical Mission in Urmia was formed. The elderly bishop Ishoyahb of Berwari died probably not long after 1850, and by 1868 the Berwari district had three bishops (his \"natar kursyas\" Ishoyahb and Yahballaha, and a third bishop, Yonan, who resided in the village of Aqri). Yahballaha died between 1877 and 1884, and the Qudshanis hierarchy at the end of the 1880s contained twelve bishops: the \"mutran\" Isaac Hnanisho (consecrated after the death of his predecessor Joseph in 1884) and the \"natar kursya\" Abraham (consecrated in 1883), five bishops in the Hakkari district (Sargis of Jilu, Sliba of Gawar and the \"mutran\"’s three suffragans, Yohannan of Tuleki, Denha of Tis and Sabrisho of Gawar), two bishops in the Berwari district (Ishoyahb of Dure and Yonan of Aqri), and three bishops in the Urmi district (Gabriel of Ardishai, Yohannan of Anzel and Yonan of Supurghan).\n\nThe diocese of Anzel effectively ceased to exist after its bishop Yohannan left for England in 1881, and the other historic Urmi diocese, Ardishai, came to an end with the murder of its bishop Gabriel in 1896. The (Russian Orthodox) bishop Yonan of Supurghan died in 1908, and in 1913 the Urmi district had three East Syriac bishops, one Russian Orthodox (Eliya of Tergawar) and two dependent on the Qudshanis patriarchate (Denha of Tis and Ephrem of Urmi). There were also several changes in the Hakkari district in the final decades before the outbreak of the First World War. The \"natar kursya\" Abraham Shemonaya converted to Catholicism in 1903 and shortly afterwards joined the Chaldean church as bishop for the ephemeral Chaldean diocese of Hakkari. The bishop Sliba of Gawar fled to Erivan shortly before 1892 and did not return to his diocese, and the bishop Yohannan of Tuleki died shortly before 1911. In the Berwari district Ishoyahb of Dure, after a brief flirtation with the Chaldean church, was replaced in 1907 by Yalda Yahballaha. The bishop Eliya Abuna was consecrated for Alqosh in 1908, and was soon afterwards sent to administer the villages of the Taimar district. Compared with the twelve bishops mentioned by Maclean, Browne and Riley in the 1880s, the Qudshanis hierarchy on the eve of the First World War seems to have consisted of at most eight bishops: the \"mutran\" Isaac Hnanisho of Shemsdin; the bishops Yalda Yahballaha of Berwari, Zaya Sargis of Jilu, Denha of Tis, Ephrem of Urmi and Abimalek Timothy (consecrated for Malabar in 1907); and, if they were still alive, the bishops Sabrisho of Gawar (last mentioned in 1901) and Yonan of Aqri (last mentioned in 1903).\nAn article published in 1913 claimed that the Qudshanis hierarchy at that date also included a bishop of Gawar named Sliba and unnamed bishops of Ashitha, Mar Behisho, Walto, Tkhuma, Baz, Tal and Tiyari, and also mentioned that a bishop named Stephen, 'of Zirabad', an (otherwise unknown) village in the Gawar district, had died recently, and that his young \"natar kursya\" was then studying in the patriarchal residence in Qudshanis. This list (although cited in Fiey's \"Pour un Oriens Christianus Novus\") cannot be regarded as genuine, as none of these bishops is mentioned by Tfinkdji or by the western missions in Kurdistan before 1914, or by any source thereafter. The course of the fighting in the Hakkari and Urmi districts during the First World War is well documented, and is impossible to believe that nine Hakkari bishops disappeared without trace during this period. In fact three members only of the Qudshanis hierarchy are known to have died during or immediately after the First World War (Denha of Tis in 1915, the patriarch Shemon XIX Benjamin in March 1918 and the \"mutran\" Isaac Hnanisho in 1919), and the hierarchy of the patriarch Shemon XX Paul in 1919 consisted of four bishops: the \"mutran\" Joseph Hnanisho, consecrated in April 1919, and the bishops Sargis of Jilu, Yahballaha of Berwari and Abimalek Timothy of Malabar, all consecrated before the First World War.\n\nThe first reasonably scientific population estimates of the Qudshanis patriarchate were made in the 19th century, but because in most cases the data recorded not individuals but families (defined normally as six, but occasionally as few as five or as many as ten individuals), attempts to extrapolate a total in terms of individuals could vary markedly. In the 1830s Eli Smith estimated the Nestorian population of the Hakkari region (apparently excluding the Bohtan and Shemsdin districts) at 10,000 families (60,000 individuals), with a further 25,000 Nestorians and Chaldeans living in the Salmas and Urmi districts. In 1850 Badger calculated the population of the Qudshanis patriarchate at 11,378 families, or about 70,000 individuals, of whom 21,000 lived in the tribal territories.\n\nBadger's figures, provided by the patriarch's archdeacon Abraham and reduced by a third as a result of his own observations, are more trustworthy than his low estimates for the Chaldean church. He was unable to supply detailed information on the Shemsdin and Urmi districts, but estimated that there were about 23 villages in the Bohtan district, and supplied the names of 222 villages in the other dioceses.\n\nBadger's figures for 1850 are usefully complemented by the statistics provided by Edward Cutts in 1877. Cutts's statistics did not include the Nestorian villages in the Zibar, Berwari and Bohtan districts mentioned by Badger, but gave detailed figures for the villages of the Shemsdin, Tergawar and Urmi districts, for which Badger had no reliable information.\n\nThese two statistics, although more than twenty years apart, broadly agree where they overlap, and the 1877 statistics are also in line with the statistics compiled in 1862 by Sophoniah for the Urmi district. Sophoniah's estimate of 4,050 Nestorian families in the Urmi district in 1862 is very close to Cutts's figure of 4,150 families in 1877. Given the broad agreement of these three separate sources, a rough estimate of the total population of the Qudshanis patriarchate in 1877 can be made by adding Badger's statistics for the dioceses of Berwari and Bohtan in 1842 to Cutts's figures for the other dioceses, giving a total of just over 11,000 families, or between 80,000 and 100,000 individuals, living in around 425 villages. With 248 priests, a ratio of roughly one priest for every 400 believers, the Qudshanis patriarchate could not serve its congregations as effectively as the Chaldean church, and nearly half its villages (admittedly the smaller ones) did not have priests of their own.\n\nAs with the Chaldean church, the population of the Qudshanis patriarchate (including the Urmi communities which temporarily converted to Russian Orthodoxy) seems to have risen appreciably in the decades before the First World War. A number of contemporary estimates were made, ranging from as low as 18,000 to as high as 190,000, with the majority of estimates falling somewhere between 70,000 and 150,000, and informed opinion favouring a figure of about 100,000. In 1923 Tfinkdji estimated its population in 1914 at about 95,000 (60,000 in Turkey and 30,000 in Persia). The evidence of two surveys of 1900 and 1914 suggests that the true figure may have been between 100,000 and 120,000. The provincial government of Van estimated that there were 97,040 East Syriacs in the \"sanjak\" of Hakkari in 1900, and the East Syriac priest Benjamin Kaldani estimated the East Syriac population of the Urmi district at 6,155 families (about 30,000 individuals) in 1914. The 1900 official statistics probably include several thousand Chaldeans, and Kaldani's figures include a number of Chaldean villages in the Salmas district. Allowing for the necessary deductions, the total population of the Qudshanis patriarchate on the eve of the First World War may have been between 100,000 and 120,000. If so, it was still slightly larger than the Chaldean church, but the gap was narrowing.\n\nThe history of the post-1913 dioceses of the Assyrian Church of the East and the Chaldean Catholic Church, the successors to the historical Church of the East, is characterised by the decline of the traditional dioceses in Mesopotamia and the creation of new dioceses for the Assyrian and Chaldean diasporas.\n\nAfter the death of the \"mutran\" Isaac Hnanisho in 1919 and the patriarch Shemon XX Paul in 1920, the hierarchy of the Assyrian Church of the East consisted of five bishops: the \"mutran\" Joseph Hnanisho; Abimalek Timothy, metropolitan of India; Zaya Sargis, metropolitan of Jilu, Raikan and Baz; Yalda Yahballaha, bishop of Berwari; and Eliya Abuna, formerly bishop of Alqosh and then Taimar. This hierarchy persisted until the end of the Second World War.\n\nMar Abimalek Timothy died in 1945, and was succeeded as metropolitan of India by Thomas Darmo. Mar Yalda Yahballaha died in 1950, and was succeeded as bishop of Berwari in 1957 by his nephew Andrew Yahballaha, who died in 1973 and was not replaced. Mar Zaya Sargis died in 1951, and was succeeded as bishop of Jilu by Mar Isho Sargis, who died in 1966. Mar Eliya Abuna joined the Chaldean church in 1921, and died in 1956. Mar Joseph Hnanisho died in 1977, and the office of \"mutran\" lapsed on his death. Two other bishops were consecrated during the 1950s and early 1960s, Mar Philip Yohannan in 1953 for Rawanduz and Mar Hnanya Dinkha, the present patriarch, in 1962 for Teheran.\n\nThe present Assyrian ecclesiastical hierarchy reflects the changing distribution of Nestorian Christians as a result of emigration after the First World War. The Assyrian community, which numbered in total about 500,000 in 1980, still has many members living in Iraq and Iran, but their greatest concentration is in the United States, especially in Chicago, where Dinkha IV now resides. This latter group is mainly composed of immigrants who left Iraq after 1933, and their descendants. There are also significant Assyrian groups in Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Denmark and Sweden. Small Assyrian communities also exist in parts of the former Soviet Union, descendants of the Assyrians who migrated to Georgia in the second half of the eighteenth century, and of those Urmi Nestorians who migrated to Yerevan in the 1820s. There is also a substantial Assyrian diaspora in the Middle East outside Iraq and Iran, principally in Syria, Lebanon, and Turkey.\n\nSince the schism of 1969 the Assyrian Church of the East has been divided into two groups (Assyrian Church of the East and Ancient Church of the East). In 1990 Mar Dinkha's hierarchy (i.e. Assyrian Church of the East, including Chaldean Syrian Church) consisted of the following bishops:\n\n\nBesides the bishops mentioned in this list, Fiey also mentions Mar Yohannan Abraham, bishop of Khabur, Gazarta and Syria since 1968, who resides in Hassakeh and looks after the Syriac communities of the Khabur valley. Dinkha IV has also recently consecrated a bishop of Europe, Mar Odisho Abraham. Two other bishops, Nicholas Baso and Claudio Vettorazo, residing in Sicily and in Aquileia in northern Italy respectively, have also been connected with Mar Dinkha's group in the past, though their present status is uncertain. A bishop named Yaqob Barclay has also been recognised recently by Dinkha IV as bishop of Jerusalem.\n\nIn 1999 Mar Aprim Nathaniel was consecrated bishop for the vacant Diocese of Syria. In the same year, the Dohuk and Arbil governorates were detached from the Archdiocese of Iraq under Mar Gewargis Sliwa and a new bishop was consecrated, Mar Isaac Yousif with residence in Dohuk. Further more, both the Iraqi bishops were made responsible for the pastoral care of Assyrians in Russia, Armenia, Georgia and the Ukraine. Mar Yosip Sargis has been based in Modesto California since 2002 and has since retired.\n\nMar Bawai Soro of Western California was suspended in 2005, and he was replaced by a new bishop for California, Mar Awa Royel in 2008. Mar Narsai DeBaz of Lebanon died in 2010 and since then the diocese has been under the pastoral care of Mar Meelis Zaia. The Indian Archdiocese also saw the consecration of two new bishops in 2010, Mar Yohannan Joseph and Mar Awgin Kuriakose. In the same year a new bishop was consecrated for Iran, Mar Narsai Benjamin.\n\nMar Paulus Benjamin was consecrated as bishop of Eastern United States in 2012.\n\nThe Ancient Church of the East appeared as a result of a schism in the Church under Mar Shimun. The then suspended metropolitan of India Mar Thoma Darmo was invited to Baghdad in 1968 by Col. Yosip Khoshaba. Together they created the Ancient Church of the East. Shlemun Giwargis was consecrated Mar Addai as Metropolitan of Baghdad, George Mooken was consecrated Mar Aprem as Metropolitan of India and Mar Poulose Bishop of India. In December 1969, Mar Addai ordained Mar Narsai Toma as Metropolitan of Kirkuk and Mar Toma Giwargis as Metropolitan of Mosul.\n\nMar Daniel Yakob, who had been consecrated bishop in the new calendar branch by Mar Yosip Khnanisho in 1973, had left his diocese in Kirkuk during the early 1980s and he was accepted into the church and appointed bishop for USA and Canada. Mar Yakob Daniel was consecrated bishop for Syria, and elevated as Metropolitan in December 1995. He was transferred to Australia and New Zealand in July 2005. Mar Emmanuel Elia was consecrated patriarchal auxiliary in 1993 and he transferred to USA in 1994 until his resignation in 2011. Mar Timotheus Shallita from the family of Mar Yawallaha of Barwar who had been consecrated by the Syriac Orthodox Church in 1958, was accepted a metropolitan in 1995 and appointed to Europe. Mar Shallita Shallita and Mar Toma Giwargis later retired in 2012.\n\nIn April 2009 two bishops were consecrated namely Mar Zaia Khoshaba for Baghdad and Mar Aprem David for Dohuk, the latter who resigned in 2011. In August 2011 Mar Mari Emmanuel was consecrated bishop for Sydney. Mar Gewargis Younan was consecrated bishop for Chicago in June 2014, and shortly afterwards, Mar Zaia was elevated as Metropolitan for North America. Mar Narsai Toma died in 2014 as Metropolitan of Kirkuk.\n\nIn 1990 Mar Addaï's hierarchy (i.e. Ancient Church of the East) consisted of the following bishops:\n\n\nAs of 2014 Mar Addai's hierarchy (i.e. Ancient Church of the East) consists of the following bishops:\n\n\nIn 1913, on the eve of the First World War, the Chaldean Church was organised into a patriarchal archdiocese of Mosul and Baghdad, four archdioceses (Amid, Kirkuk, Seert and Urmi) and eight dioceses (Aqra, Amadiya, Gazarta, Mardin, Salmas, Sehna, Van and Zakho). There were also a number of patriarchal vicariates for isolated communities in Egypt, Syria, Turkey, Persia and southern Iraq.\n\nMany of the Chaldean dioceses suffered terrible hardship and persecution during the First World War. In 1928, according to an official statistic prepared by the Sacred Congregation pro Ecclesia Orientali, the Chaldean church (excluding the vicariates) had fewer than 44,000 members, compared with over 101,000 in 1913. The dioceses of Kirkuk and Sehna, well to the southeast of the war zone, escaped relatively unscathed, but all the other Chaldean dioceses had lost more than half their Christian population as a result of the war. In the patriarchal archdiocese of Mosul, the largest of the Chaldean dioceses, there were only 18,350 Chaldeans in 1928, compared with just under 32,000 in 1913. In the dioceses of Zakho and (Amadiya there were also heavy losses, though their extent was concealed in the 1928 statistics because these two dioceses were at that time supporting a substantial Chaldean refugee population. In the dioceses of Van, Amid, Seert, Gazarta, Mardin and Salmas, the losses were simply catastrophic. These six dioceses could muster only 4,500 Chaldeans in 1928, compared with 33,840 in 1913.\nThese heavy losses were reflected in a number of changes in the traditional episcopal hierarchy of the Chaldean church. In 1915 Yaqob Awgin Manna, patriarchal vicar of Van, left the district, and after the subsequent massacre of the Christians in the Van region the vicariate was not revived at the end of the war. Addaï Scher, archbishop of Seert, and Philip Yaqob Abraham, archbishop of Gazarta, were both killed in 1915, and neither diocese was revived after the war. In 1929 the Chaldean archdiocese of Amid lapsed on the death of its last archbishop, Shlemun Mushe al-Sabbagh. In 1930 the old diocese of Salmas was joined with the archdiocese of Urmi, established in 1890.\n\nAt the same time, new arrangements were required for the growing Chaldean diaspora in Syria and Lebanon. Patriarchal vicariates had been established before the First World War for the Chaldean communities in Aleppo, Damascus and Deir al-Zor. There was also a Chaldean community in Alexandretta, and after the First World War a single patriarchal vicariate of Syria was created for these four communities. In 1937 this vicariate numbered 3,326 Chaldeans, 6 priests and 4 churches. Substantial numbers of Assyrians and Chaldeans left Iraq in the 1930s and were resettled in the Khabur valley in northern Syria, and a new Chaldean diocese of Syria and Lebanon was created for these communities and for the Chaldeans of Beirut. The first bishop of Syria and Lebanon was Gabriel Namo, who sat from 1939 to 1957 at Aleppo. In 1937 the diocese contained 3,107 Chaldeans, with 11 priests and 2 churches.\n\nAccording to figures published in 1938 by Stephen Kajo, the patriarchal vicar of Mosul, the population of the Chaldean church was just over 140,000 in 1937. This is a surprisingly high figure compared with the 1928 statistics, but it may be possible to reconcile the two figures. The 1928 estimate, made under difficult circumstances with a considerable number of Chaldean Christians displaced in refugee camps, may well have underestimated the true strength of the Chaldean church in Mesopotamia, and did not take account of the large Chaldean emigration after the First World War. The 1937 statistic, on the other hand, included a significant number of East Syriac Christians who were only nominally Chaldean or who had very recently converted. The statistic counted as Chaldean not only the traditional pre-1914 Chaldean villages, but also a number of villages in the Zakho, Aqra, Amadiya and Berwari districts, previously Nestorian in sympathy. These villages were resettled after 1918 by Assyrian refugees (most of whom would have been Nestorians), and appear to have received Chaldean priests shortly afterwards.\nAt the start of the Second World War the Chaldean patriarch resided in Baghdad, and his episcopate consisted of four archdioceses (Kirkuk, Sehna, Basra, and Urmi-Salmas) and six dioceses (Amadiya, Aqra, Mardin, Mosul, Syria and Lebanon, and Zakho). There were also patriarchal vicariates for Syria, Turkey and Egypt.\n\nThere have been a number of other changes to the hierarchy of the Chaldean church in the last half century. The diocese of Mardin ceased to exist in 1941 after the death of its last bishop, Israel Audo. In 1957 the diocese of Syria and Lebanon was broken up. A new diocese of Aleppo was created for Syria, while the Chaldeans of Beirut were given a coadjutor, with the titular rank of bishop and the right of succession. (The patriarch Raphael I Bidawid was coadjutor of Beirut from 1966 to 1989.) In 1960 a new diocese was created for Alqosh. In 1962 Baghdad was placed under a patriarchal auxiliary, with the titular rank of bishop. In January 1966 an archdiocese was established for Ahwaz in southern Iran, where a significant number of Chaldeans were employed in the oil industry. In 1968 Erbil was detached from the diocese of Kirkuk and its ancient status as an archdiocese was revived. In 1971 the archdiocese of Sehna was renamed Teheran. This change of name reflected a decision taken three decades earlier by the archbishop Joseph Cheikho of Sehna, who moved his seat to Teheran in 1944 in recognition of the steady growth of the Chaldean population of the Iranian capital.\n\nUntil recently the Chaldean church did not appoint bishops for its diaspora, preferring to administer them through patriarchal vicars. This policy gradually changed after the Second World War. The patriarchal vicariate of Turkey, established in 1865, was replaced in 1966 by a diocese at Istanbul. Istanbul is now the only city in Turkey with a Chaldean bishop. In 1980 the patriarchal vicariate of Egypt was also replaced by a diocese at Cairo. In 1982 an apostolic exarchate was established for the United States and a bishop was appointed for the exarchate with his seat at Detroit. In 1987 the small Chaldean community in Australia was under the care of a patriarchal vicar.\n\nThe Chaldean hierarchy in 1990 was as follows:\n\n\nA recently published statistic gave the Chaldean church a total membership of 285,639 in 1995, of whom nearly 150,000 lived in Baghdad and its environs, 21,000 in the Mosul district, and 60,000 in America. According to this statistic the church had 149,220 members in Baghdad, 5,325 in the Kirkuk district, 10,500 in the Erbil district, 4,500 in Ashshar and Basra, 20,944 in the Mosul district, 4,500 in Teheran, 1,500 in the Urmi and Salmas districts, 350 in Ahwaz, 10,000 in Lebanon, 500 in Egypt, 15,000 in Syria, 3,300 in Turkey and 60,000 in America.\n\nThere have been several changes in the Chaldean hierarchy during the past two decades.\n\nThere have been several incumbents of the archdiocese of Erbil since its revival. The archbishop Hanna Marko of Erbil died on 23 October 1996 at the age of 59, and was succeeded by Yaqob Ishaq (July 1997–May 1999). After a short vacancy he was succeeded by Yaqob Denha Scher on 12 January 2001. Yaqob Denha Scher died in office 8 January 2005, at the age of 70. Since then the archdiocese of Erbil has been administered by the bishop Rabban Al-Qas of Amadiya, in the capacity of apostolic administrator.\n\nYohannan Issayi, archbishop of Teheran, died on 7 February 1999, and was succeeded on the same day by Ramzi Garmo, coadjutor archbishop of Teheran since 5 May 1995.\n\nAbdalahad Rabban, bishop of Aqra and apostolic administrator of Suleimaniya, died on 25 July 1999. The diocese of Aqra has remained vacant since his death, and the few remaining Chaldeans in the Aqra district are now under the care of an apostolic administrator, Father Youhanna Issa.\n\nGiwargis Garmo died in 1999 and was succeeded as archbishop of Mosul in February 2001 by Paulos Faraj Rahho.\n\nIn February 2001 Shlemon Warduni was consecrated patriarchal auxiliary for Baghdad by the patriarch Raphael I Bidawid.\n\nThree important appointments were made in December 2001. The elderly bishops Ablahad Sana of Alqosh (\"ob.\" 7 September 2002) and Yohannan Qello of Amadiya (\"ob.\" 28 February 2007) were replaced by Mikha Pola Maqdassi and Rabban Al-Qas respectively. At the same time Petros Hanna Issa al-Harboli was consecrated bishop of Zakho, after a fourteen-year vacancy in the diocese following the death of its previous bishop Stephen Kajo in December 1987.\n\nIn 2002 a new Eparchy of Saint Peter the Apostle, with its seat in El Cajon, California, was created for the Chaldean diaspora of the Western United States. Sarhad Joseph Jammo was consecrated for this diocese on 25 July 2002.\n\nLouis Sako succeeded Andrew Sana as archbishop of Kirkuk on 24 October 2002. Andrew Sana, who retired on 27 September 2003, and died in 2013.\n\nThe patriarch Raphael I Bidawid died on 7 July 2003 and was succeeded as patriarch of Babylon on 3 December 2003 by Emmanuel III Delly.\n\nIn October 2006 Jibrail Kassab, formerly archbishop of Basra, was consecrated archbishop of Sydney, a new archdiocese created for the growing Chaldean diaspora in Australia and New Zealand. The archeparchy of Basra has remained vacant since this appointment.\n\nPaulos Faraj Rahho, archbishop of Mosul, was kidnapped on 29 February 2008 and murdered either during the kidnapping or very shortly afterwards. He was the most eminent Chaldean victim of the continuing cycle of violence and disorder in Iraq since the American-led invasion of 2003. He was succeeded by Emil Shimoun Nona, whose election was confirmed by the Vatican on 13 November 2009.\n\nIn 2010 the vacant diocese of Erbil was assigned a new Archbishop, Bashar Matti Warda. Archbishop Hanna Zora, who had taken up residence in Canada since 1991 was formally recognized as head of the newly created Eparchy of Mar Addai of Toronto in July 2011. He retired in May 2014. A successor has yet to be appointed.\n\nCardinal Emmanuel III Delly retired in December 2012, and he was replaced by Archbishop Louis Sako of Kirkuk in January 2013.\n\nIn 2014, the following appointments were made: Yousif Mirkis as Archbishop of Kirkuk & Sulaimaniya, Saad Sirop as patriarchal auxiliary, Habib Al-Naufaly as Archbishop of Basra, Bawai Soro as Auxiliary in the Eparchy of St. Peter in San Diego and the Western United States, Frank Kalabat as Bishop of St. Thomas of Detroit and the Eastern United States. Bishop Ibrahim Ibrahim of the St. Thomas Eparchy retired in May 2014.\n\nThe present Chaldean episcopate (November 2009) is as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5456568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5456568", "title": "Edward Mann Butler", "text": "Edward Mann Butler\n\nEdward Mann Butler (July 13, 1784 – November 1, 1855) was one of Kentucky's most prominent early educators. He is best remembered as being the first president of what would become the University of Louisville and heading the first public school in Kentucky.\n\nButler was born in Baltimore. After graduating from St Mary's College, Butler practiced law and served as a school teacher in various locations, including Maysville, Lexington, Versailles and Louisville. He was the president of the Jefferson Seminary (which later became the University of Louisville) from 1813 to 1816. In 1822 he became the head of the grammar department at Lexington's Transylvania University, and then returned to head the Jefferson Seminary in 1829.\n\nHe is also considered Kentucky's first reliable historian, with his first complete work being released in 1834. At the time of his death, he was working on a detailed history of the Ohio River Valley. He was killed on November 1, 1855 in a St. Louis train wreck.\n\n"}
{"id": "34418888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34418888", "title": "Flora Park Cave Spurdle", "text": "Flora Park Cave Spurdle\n\nFlora Park Cave Spurdle (1883–1973) was a notable New Zealand journalist, museum worker and local historian. She was born in Whanganui, New Zealand on 3 March 1883 and died there on 7 October 1973.\n"}
{"id": "14744968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14744968", "title": "Francis Harold", "text": "Francis Harold\n\nFrancis Harold, O.F.M. (died 18 March 1685), was an Irish Franciscan and historical writer.\n\nHe was for some time professor of theology in the Irish College in Prague; and afterwards went to Rome, where he spent the remaining years of his life in the Irish Franciscan College of St. Isidore, fulfilling the duties of librarian.\n\nIn 1662, while in Rome, Harold published an epitome of the \"Annals\" of his uncle, Friar Luke Wadding, in two folio volumes, extending from 1208 to 1540, to which he prefixed a life of Wadding, dedicating it to Cardinal Francesco Barberini. This life was again published in Rome in 1731. He also wrote \"Beati Thuribii Alphonsi Mogroveii archiepiscopi Limensis vita exemplaris\", published in Rome in 1683. A copy of this work with the author's manuscript corrections is still preserved in the library of the Royal Irish Academy. His \"Lima Limata conciliis, constitutionibus synodalibus et aliis monumentis . . . notis et scholiis illustrata\", published in Rome in 1673, contains a collection of documents connected with the synods and other affairs of importance to the Catholic Church in Peru.\n\nHarold died in Rome on 18 March 1685. \n\n"}
{"id": "5802112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802112", "title": "GDE Bertoni", "text": "GDE Bertoni\n\nGDE Bertoni is a trophy and medal manufacturer, in Milan, Italy. Until 1995, the company was known as 'Bertoni, Milano'.\n\nThe company's most famous production is the FIFA World Cup Trophy, which it made in 1971 after winning an international competition.\n\nThe firm's other notable works include the UEFA Cup trophy, the UEFA Super Cup and the Olympic Order.\n\n"}
{"id": "35169708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35169708", "title": "History of Istria", "text": "History of Istria\n\nIstria, formerly Histria (Latin), is the largest peninsula in the Adriatic Sea. The peninsula is located at the head of the Adriatic between the Gulf of Trieste and the Bay of Kvarner. It is shared by three countries: Croatia, Slovenia, and Italy.\n\nIn 11th century BC, Istria was inhabited by the Histri, a prehistoric Illyrian tribe after whom Istria was named.\n\nThe Romans conquered Histri and took power of the Istria peninsula in 178 and 177 BC. Romans established the port of Pietas Iulia (modern Pula) and gradually converting the inland areas into \"latifundia\" (large estates) worked by colonists and locals whom they had enslaved. Although pockets of Illyrian resistance remained in the hilly interior, they succumbed in time to the Romans’ combination of military and economic superiority. Although Pula is Istria's only settlement to preserve significant evidence of the Romans (principally its Forum and Amphitheater), most of Istria's major settlements were established in this period. Under Emperor Augustus, Istria was incorporated as a discrete region within the Roman province of Italia, making it an integral part of the Empire, which remained until the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476.\n\nAfterwards, the region was pillaged by the Ostrogoths in 489 AD. In 538/539, it was incorporated into the Byzantine or Eastern Roman Empire - which had endured as part of the Exarchate of Ravenna - and annexed to the Lombards Kingdom in 599. In the Avarian-Slavic invasions and inhabitation of the Slavs, in the beginning of 7th century, the inland towns were destroyed and abandoned, while the coastal area resisted these attacks. This period was highly contentious, because the attacks by the Lombards from the West, Slovene tribes from the north, and Croat tribes from the east and south resulted in a state of near constant conflict.\n\nIstria was annexed to the Frankish kingdom by Pepin of Italy in 789. The seeds of Istria's dissolution were sown under increasingly weak Frankish rule, which enabled most settlements to achieve \"de facto\" autonomy. In the 10th and 11th centuries, Istria was ruled by the German feudal families. Istria was a separate markgraviate, given in hereditary feud to various families of noblemen by German emperors, the dukes of Carinthia, Merano and Bavaria. The German emperor Henry IV nominally assigned the remaining march to the Patriarchate of Aquileia.\n\nIn 1145, the cities of Pula, Koper and Izola were defeated by the Republic of Venice and controlled by Venice further after. During the 13th century, the Patriarch's rule weakened and the towns kept surrendering to Venice – Poreč in 1267, Umag in 1269, Novigrad in 1270, Sveti Lovreč in 1271, Motovun in 1278, Kopar in 1279, and Piran and Rovinj in 1283. Venice gradually dominated the whole coastal area of western Istria and the area to Plomin on the eastern part of the peninsula. The wealthier coastal towns cultivated increasingly strong economic relationships with Venice and by 1348 were eventually incorporated into its territory, while their inland counterparts fell under the sway of the weaker Patriarchate of Aquileia, which became part of the Habsburg Empire in 1374.\n\nThe inner Istrian part around the town of Pazin (), named Pazin County (), with its stronghold Pazin Castle, was held for centuries by the members of the House of Habsburg and was part of the Habsburg Empire (Holy Roman Empire). The Venetian part of the peninsula passed to it in 1797 with the Treaty of Campo Formio.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Venetian Republic (1797), Istria was occupied by Napoleon; however, he gave Venice and the Venetian part of Istria and Dalmatia to Austria, in exchange for the Netherlands and Lombardia.\n\nIn 1805, Napoleon re-occupied the former Venetian Istria. The Holy Roman Empire ended with the period of Napoleonic rule from 1805-13, when Istria became part of the Italian Kingdom and, from 1809, of the Illyrian provinces of the Napoleonic Empire. For the first time, inner and eastern parts of Istria became a part of Croatia, as a part of Civil Croatia, established by Napoleon.\n\nAfter this short period, the newly established Austrian Empire ruled entire Istrian territory from 1814 until 1918. Istria became the part of the Empire as a separate territorial unit, with Trieste as its capital. Pazin became its capital in 1825. In 1866 Pula became the capital port of the Austrian Empire Navy.\n\nThe introduction of limited democracy in 1861, by means of a regional parliament (Diet of Istria) that convened at Parezzo (Poreč), only served to its purpose to the Austrians in defusing Italian calls for the region's union with the newly established Kingdom of Italy, as suffrage was limited to property owners, who were primarily Italian. The first parliament consisted of 28 Italians, but only one Croat and one Slovene.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, there was a fight for the national and political rights of the Croatian and Slovenian population in relation to the Italian population, strongly influenced by the Croatian national revival. Bishop Juraj Dobrila was the leader of the battle for Croatian rights in Istria. His concept was the activation of the people in the field of the national self-defence, the preservation of tradition, the improvement of economic and political situation, the acceptance of new civilization and cultural achievements, and finding the way to take the people out of misery. In one of his first demands to the Istrian Parliament in Poreč, he asked that the Croatian should become the official language, along with Italian.\nWith the First World War, national fights were interrupted. Italian interest in the eastern part of the Adriatic coast became very obvious. A secret agreement was made in London in April 1915, according to which Italy was promised South Tyrol, a part of Dalmatia and Istria with Trieste and Gorizia.\n\nAt the end of the First World War, Austria-Hungary was defeated in the battle of Vittorio Veneto and asked for an armistice, signed in Padova, on 3 November 1918.\nIstria was consequently occupied by the Italian Royal Army, under the terms of the armistice. At the peace conference in Paris, Italy was between the winning powers, and obtained the suzerainty over Istria, according to the terms of London Treaty.\n\nAfter the advent of Fascism in 1922, the portions of the Istrian population that were Croatian and Slovene were exposed to a policy of forced Italianization and cultural suppression. During the period between the two world wars, Italians eradicated Croatian and Slovenian public and national life. They abolished all Croatian schools, cultural institutions and associations, and Croatian names were Italianized. Croatians lost their right to education and religious practice in their maternal languages. The population emigrated to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia on a large scale. The organization TIGR, regarded as the first armed antifascist resistance group in Europe, was founded in 1927 and soon penetrated into Slovene and Croatian-speaking parts of Istria.\nAfter the capitulation of Italy in the Second World War, The Yugoslav Partisans officially occupied the region, expelled the fascist authorities, and established the rule of the National Liberation Movement in Croatia which sought to incorporate Istra into the Croatian state. However, the Yugoslav executive was forced split Istra into two Zones: the Anglo-American-occupied Zone A and the Yugoslav-administrated Zone B. These zones would eventually be abolished by the Paris Peace Treaties of 1947. The capitulation of Italy, and the ensuing struggle over Istra, caused acts of massacres such as the Foibe massacres which were often partly or wholly committed by the local non-Italian population, due the previous regime's oppression of non-Italians like such as forced Italianization which was the leading cause of resentment. This lingered and triggered the Istrian exodus which significantly reduced the amount of Italians on Istra.\nAccording to the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, the territory between Novigrad and Trieste became the independent Free Territory of Trieste, while other parts were incorporated into Yugoslavia. The Free Territory of Trieste was also divided in two zones – Zone A (area around Trieste) and Zone B (the rest). Zone A was again under the Anglo-American administration, while Zone B was under the Yugoslav military administration, from which area most of the Italian population fled. After the dissolution of the Free Territory of Trieste in 1954, by London agreement, Italy was assigned Zone A, the region up to the present-day Slovenian/Italian border, while the remaining territory was incorporated into Yugoslavia as a part of its People's Republic of Croatia and the People's Republic of Slovenia. For the first time, the entire western coast of Istria became part of Croatia. The final border between the two states was defined in the agreement in the Italian town of Osimo (Treaty of Osimo) on 10 November 1975.\n\nFollowing the break-up of Yugoslavia in 1991, and international recognition of independent states of Croatia and Slovenia, the division of Istria between Croatia and Slovenia runs on the former republic borders. In December 1992, Istria became one of the twenty counties in the Republic of Croatia.\n\n"}
{"id": "867471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867471", "title": "History of Quebec French", "text": "History of Quebec French\n\nQuebec French is substantially different in pronunciation and vocabulary to the French of Europe and that of France's Second Empire colonies in Africa and Asia.\n\nSimilar divergences took place in the Portuguese, Spanish and English language of the Americas with respect to European dialects, but in the case of French the separation was increased by the reduction of cultural contacts with France after the 1763 Treaty of Paris in which France ceded Canada to Great Britain.\n\nAlthough pronunciations like \"moé\" and \"toé\" are today stigmatized (\"joual\"), they were the pronunciations of Early Modern French that were used by the kings of France, the aristocracy and the common people in many provinces of France. After the French Revolution, the standard pronunciation in France changed to that of the bourgeois class in Paris, but Quebec retained many pronunciations and expressions shared with modern Oïl languages such as Norman, Gallo, Picard, Poitevin and Saintongeais. Speakers of those languages of France predominated among the settlers of New France.\n\nQuebec French was also influenced by the French spoken by the King's Daughters, who was of the petit-bourgeois class from the Paris area (Île-de-France) as well as Normandy.\n\nThus, the 18th-century bourgeois Parisian French that eventually became the national, standardized language of France after the French Revolution, but the French of the \"Ancien Régime\" kept evolving on its own in Canada. Indeed, the French spoken in Canada is closer idiomatically and phonetically to Belgian French, despite their independent evolution and the relatively small number of Belgian immigrants to Quebec (although it is to be remembered that the influence of the Walloon language in Belgium has influenced the language in the same way as the presence of the Oïl speakers in Quebec).\n\nThere is also the undeniable fact that Canadian-French speakers have lived alongside and among English speakers ever since the beginning of British administration, in 1763. Thus, anglicisms in Quebec French tend to be longstanding and part of a gradual, natural process of borrowing, but the unrelated anglicisms in European French are nearly all much more recent and sometimes driven by fads and fashions.\n\nSome people (for instance, Léandre Bergeron, author of the \"Dictionnaire de la langue québécoise\") have referred to Quebec French as \"la langue québécoise\" (the Québécois language); most speakers, however, would reject or even take offence to the idea that they do not speak French.\n\nThe French language established itself permanently in North America with the foundation of Quebec City by Samuel de Champlain in 1608. However, it was after the creation of the Sovereign Council of New France in 1663 that the colonies really started to develop.\n\nBetween 1627 and 1663, a few thousand colonists landed in New France, either in Acadia or Canada. The provinces that contributed the most to these migrations were those in the northern and western regions of France. The migrants came from Normandy, Aunis, Perche, Brittany, Paris and Île-de-France, Poitou, Maine, Saintonge, and Anjou, most of those being regions where French was seldom spoken at the time (see article Languages of France). According to (1984], the first colonists were therefore mostly non-francophone except for the immigrants from the Paris area, who most likely spoke a popular form of French; and the following \"dialect clash\" () brought about the linguistic unification of Quebec. Among the speakers of Norman, Picard, Aunis, Poitevin and Saintongeais and the Celtic language Breton, many might have understood French as a second language. Gradually, a linguistic transfer towards French occurred, leading to the linguistic unification of all the ethnic groups coming from France.\n\nAccording to Henri Wittmann (1997) (based on earlier work of his), the overwhelming similarities between the different varieties of Colonial French clearly show that the linguistic unity triggering dialect clash occurred before the colonists exported their French into the colonies of the 17th and 18th centuries; and that the koiné-forming dialect clash must have occurred in Paris and other related urban centers of France.\n\nIn any event, according to contemporary sources, the Canadians were all speaking French natively by the end of the 17th century, long before France itself outside its large urban centers.\n\nOn September 13, 1759, Quebec City, then the political capital of New France, was taken by the British Army. New France fell a year later. According to the terms of 1760 Articles of Capitulation of Montreal, the French Army was to leave the conquered territory. The ruling elite (French nobles and leading merchants) also left. Ordinary people, the Roman Catholic clergy, lesser merchants, and some members of the civil administration, the majority having born in Canada, stayed in the country. Those who stayed were to become British subjects. Soon, British General Jeffery Amherst, 1st Baron Amherst, established a military government, which was to last until 1763.\n\nThe military occupation led to the establishment of a provisional administration. Because the fate of the country was still uncertain, no political actions were really undertaken to transform, and the status quo prevailed. Because the population was unable to understand English, it was decided that ordinances would be published in French. To do so, numerous Canadians were permitted to participate in the administration of justice.\n\nIn 1763, France ceded Canada to Great Britain in the Treaty of Paris. Rapidly, the new ruling elite planned its future for the French-speaking colonists, who were to be absorbed into the English-speaking society of British North America, but they were to be allowed the right of Catholic worship under the terms of the treaty. On October 7, the British Royal Proclamation of 1763 set the new political conditions of Canada. The territory of the colony renamed the \"Province of Quebec,\" was reduced to the inhabited area along the Saint Lawrence River.\n\nJames Murray was appointed governor and became responsible for enforcing the new policy concerning the colony. His tasks were to encourage British immigration; establish the official religion, Anglicanism; and the administrative and legal structures of England. Time brought the gradual establishment of anglophone British officials and colonists. Trade quickly passed on to British and British-American merchants, who migrated to Quebec City, Trois-Rivières, and Montreal.\n\nFrench, until then the lingua franca in all aspects of social life, was quickly relegated to the second rank in trade and government. The educated classes began French-English bilingualism by necessity.\n\nThe Quebec Act of 1774 granted many of the requests of the Canadians, who had been petitioning the British crown for the restoration of French civil laws and guarantees as to the usage of their language and faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52402855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52402855", "title": "India Government Mint, Noida", "text": "India Government Mint, Noida\n\nThe India Government Mint, Noida, is one of the four mints in India; based in Noida, in the state of Uttar Pradesh, the mint started production on 1 July 1988 and is the only India Government Mint established since India became an independent country in 1947. It produced the first stainless steel coins in India and aside from producing coins for its home country, it also produces coins for other countries.\n\nIn 1984, the Government of India decided to establish a new mint in the India city of Noida, Uttar Pradesh. With an estimated annual production capacity of 2,000 million coins, the new mint was established to cater to the increasing demand for coins in India. In January 1986 the project was started by the Department of Economic Affairs under the Ministry of Finance with a budget of . The mint was completed on time and began production on 1 July 1988. It produced the first stainless steel coins for India.\n\nSince 13 January 2006, the India Government Mint at Noida has been a part of Security Printing & Minting Corporation of India Limited. It is headed by a board of directors.\n\nCoins minted at the India Government Mint, Noida carries its mint mark of a \"small or large dot\" (° or o).\n\nAside from producing coins for India, the mint has also produced coins for Thailand and Dominican Republic. From April 2012, the mint introduced night-shift production. Before the November 2016 demonetization of INR500 and INR1000 banknotes, the mint produced nearly 40% of the total coins and had an annual target of producing coins worth . This production was later increased due to shortage of liquid currency.\n"}
{"id": "15290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15290", "title": "Intercalation (timekeeping)", "text": "Intercalation (timekeeping)\n\nIntercalation or embolism in timekeeping is the insertion of a leap day, week, or month into some calendar years to make the calendar follow the seasons or moon phases. Lunisolar calendars may require intercalations of both days and months.\n\nThe solar or tropical year does not have a whole number of days (it is about 365.24 days), but a calendar year must have a whole number of days. The most common way to reconcile the two is to vary the number of days in the calendar year.\n\nIn solar calendars, this is done by adding to a common year of 365 days, an extra day (\"leap day\" or \"intercalary day\") about every four years, causing a leap year to have 366 days (Julian, Gregorian and Indian national calendars).\n\nThe Decree of Canopus, which was issued by the pharaoh Ptolemy III Euergetes of Ancient Egypt in 239 BCE, decreed a solar leap day system; an Egyptian leap year was not adopted until 25 BC, when the Roman Emperor Augustus successfully instituted a reformed Alexandrian calendar.\n\nIn the Julian calendar, as well as in the Gregorian calendar, which improved upon it, intercalation is done by adding an extra day to February in each leap year. In the Julian calendar this was done every four years. In the Gregorian, years divisible by 100 but not 400 were exempted in order to improve accuracy. Thus, 2000 was a leap year; 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not.\n\nEpagomenal days are days within a solar calendar that are outside any regular month. Usually five epagomenal days are included within every year (Egyptian, Coptic, Ethiopian, Mayan Haab' and French Republican Calendars), but a sixth epagomenal day is intercalated every four years in some (Coptic, Ethiopian and French Republican calendars).\n\nThe Bahá'í calendar includes enough epagomenal days (usually 4 or 5) before the last month (, \"ʿalāʾ\") to ensure that the following year starts on the March equinox. These are known as the Ayyám-i-Há.\n\nThe solar year does not have a whole number of lunar months (it is about 12.37 lunations), so a lunisolar calendar must have a variable number of months in a year. Regular years have 12 months, but embolismic years insert a 13th \"intercalary\" or \"leap\" or \"embolismic\" month every second or third year (see blue moon). Whether to insert an intercalary month in a given year may be determined using regular cycles such as the 19-year Metonic cycle (Hebrew calendar and in the determination of Easter) or using calculations of lunar phases (Hindu lunisolar and Chinese calendars). The Buddhist calendar adds both an intercalary day and month on a usually regular cycle. The Jewish year is arranged according to a luni-solar system.\n\nThe tabular Islamic calendar usually has 12 lunar months that alternate between 30 and 29 days every year, but an intercalary day is added to the last month of the year 11 times within a 30-year cycle. Some historians also linked the pre-Islamic practice of Nasi' to intercalation.\n\nThe Solar Hijri calendar is based on solar calculations and is similar to the Gregorian calendar in its structure, and hence the intercalation, with the exception that the year date starts with the Hegira.\n\nThe International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service can insert or remove leap seconds from the last day of any month (June and December are preferred). These are sometimes described as intercalary.\n\nISO 8601 includes a specification for a 52/53-week year. Any year that has 53 Thursdays has 53 weeks; this extra week may be regarded as intercalary.\n\n"}
{"id": "55563797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55563797", "title": "Inácio da Costa Quintela", "text": "Inácio da Costa Quintela\n\nInácio da Costa Quintela (1763 - 6 December 1838) was a Portuguese naval officer, historian, poet and politician.\n\nBorn in Lisbon, he graduated from the Academia de Marinha in 1791 and entered the navy. He rose quickly through the officer ranks and by 1797 he was in command of a frigate in the Mediterranean as part of a force under the marquês de Nisa. He distinguished himself in a battle with a French frigate on 15 May 1801, in which he only surrendered when he could no longer fight back (as in the law of the sea at this period) when at the outset of the battle he had no chance against a more heavily armed opponent, which might have meant death.\n\nHe commanded the \"Afonso\", on which the Portuguese royal family escaped to Brazil in November 1807. Rising to vice-admiral around 1811, he served under Don Carlos as admiral-general. He was appointed minister of the kingdom (equivalent to prime minister) on 24 February 1821 and after John VI's return to Portugal he became Naval Minister until the return of absolutism known as the Vilafrancada. After taking the oath to uphold the Constitutional Charter on 31 July 1826, Quintela was re-appointed Naval Minister but in December that year he retired from all public office, since he no longer identified with the new government's aims.\n\nIn retirement he wrote the \"Anais da Marinha Portuguesa\" (Annals of the Portuguese Navy), which he never completed and which was published posthumously by the Lisbon Academy of Sciences, of which he had been a member in 1830 and 1840. He also wrote a verse translation of Virgil's \"Aeneid\" and supposedly some poems from Horace's \"Odes\", published in the Anais da Ciência das Artes e das Letras. He died in Lisbon.\n"}
{"id": "13579247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13579247", "title": "Italianization", "text": "Italianization\n\nItalianization (; ; ; ; ) is the spread of Italian culture, people, or language, either by integration or assimilation.\n\nIt is most known for a process organized by the Kingdom of Italy to force cultural and ethnic assimilation, primarily, of the native populations living in the former Austro-Hungarian territories that were transferred to Italy after World War I in exchange for Italy having joined the Triple Entente in 1915. This process was conducted during the period of Fascist rule between 1922 and 1943.\n\nBetween 1922 and the beginning of World War II, the affected people were the German-speaking population of Trentino-Alto Adige, and Slovenes and Croats in the Julian March. The program was later extended to areas annexed during World War II, affecting Slovenes in the Province of Ljubljana, and Croats in Gorski Kotar and coastal Dalmatia,\nand, to a lesser extent, toward the French and French-provençal speaking regions of western Alps (like the Aosta valley).\n\nThe former Austrian Littoral (later renamed Julian March) was occupied by the Italian army after the Armistice with Austria. Following the annexation, 400 cultural, sporting (for example Sokol), youth, social and professional Slavic organizations, and libraries (\"reading rooms\"), three political parties, 31 newspapers and journals, and 300 co-operatives and financial institutions had been forbidden, and specifically so later with the Law on Associations (1925), the Law on Public Demonstrations (1926) and the Law on Public Order (1926), the closure of the classical lyceum in Pazin, of the high school in Volosko (1918), the closure of the 488 Slovene and Croat primary schools followed.\n\nThe period of violent persecution of Slovenes in Trieste began with riots in 13 April 1920, which were organized as a retaliation for the assault on Italian occupying troops in 11 July Split incident by the local Croatian population. Many Slovene-owned shops and buildings were destroyed during the riots, which culminated when a group of Italian Fascists, led by Francesco Giunta, burned down the \"Narodni dom\" (\"National House\"), the community hall of the Triestine Slovenes. Benito Mussolini praised this action as a \"masterpiece of the Triestine fascism\"; in two years he would become prime minister of Italy.\n\nIn September 1920, Mussolini said: \n\nThis expressed a common Fascist opinion against the Croatian and Slovene minority in the Julian March.\n\nItalian teachers were assigned to schools and the use of Croat and Slovene languages in the administration and in the courts restricted. After March 1923 these languages were prohibited in administration, and after October 1925 in law courts, as well. In 1923, in the context of the organic school reform prepared by the fascist minister Giovanni Gentile, teaching in languages different from Italian was abolished. In the Julian March this meant the end of teaching in Croatian and Slovenian. Anyway, in Šušnjevica (it: Valdarsa) the use of Istro-Rumanian language was granted since 1923.\n\nIn 1926, claiming that it was restoring surnames to their original Italian form, the Italian government announced the Italianization of German, Slovene and Croat surnames. In the Province of Trieste alone, 3,000 surnames were modified and 60,000 people had their surnames amended to an Italian-sounding form. First or given names were also Italianized.\n\nSlovene and Croat societies and sporting and cultural associations had to cease every activity in line with a decision of provincial fascist secretaries dated 12 June 1927. On a specific order from the prefect of Trieste on 19 November 1928, the \"Edinost\" political society was also dissolved. Croat and Slovene financial co-operatives in Istria, which at first were absorbed by the Pula or Trieste savings banks, were gradually liquidated.\n\nIn 1927, Giuseppe Cobolli Gigli, the minister for public works in fascist Italy, wrote in \"Gerarchia\" magazine, a Fascist publication, that \"The Istrian muse named as Foibe those places suitable for burial of enemies of the national [Italian] characteristics of Istria\".\n\nThe Slovene militant anti-Fascist organization TIGR emerged in 1927. It co-ordinated the Slovene resistance against Fascist Italy until its dismantlement by the Fascist secret police in 1941. At the time, some TIGR ex-members joined the Slovene Partisans.\n\nAmong the notable Slovene émigrés from Trieste were the writers Vladimir Bartol and Josip Ribičič, the legal theorist Boris Furlan, and the architect Viktor Sulčič.\n\nDuring World War II, Italy occupied almost all of Dalmatia, and the Italian government made stringent efforts to Italianize the region. \nItalian occupying forces were accused of committing war crimes in order to transform occupied territories into ethnic Italian territories.\n\nThe Italian government operated concentration camps for Slavic citizens, such as Rab concentration camp and one on the island of Molat. Survivors received no compensation from Italy after the war.\n\nMario Roatta was the commander of the 2nd Italian Army in Yugoslavia. To suppress the mounting resistance led by the Slovene partisans, he adopted tactics of \"summary executions, hostage-taking, reprisals, internments and the burning of houses and villages.\" After the war the Yugoslav government sought unsuccessfully to have him extradited for war crimes from Spain, where he was protected by Francisco Franco. \n\nIn 1919, at the time of its annexation, the southern part of Tyrol was inhabited by almost 90% German speakers. In October 1923, the use of the Italian language became mandatory (although not exclusive) on all levels of federal, provincial and local government. Regulations by the fascist authorities required that all kinds of signs and public notices had to be in Italian only. Maps, postcards and other graphic material had to show Italian place names. In September 1925, Italian became the sole permissible language in courts of law. Illegal Katakombenschulen (\"Catacomb schools\") were set up by the local German-speaking minority to teach children the German language. The government created incentives to encourage immigration of native Italians to the South Tyrol.\n\nSeveral factors limited the effects of the Italian policy, namely the adverse nature of the territory (mainly mountains and valleys of difficult access), the difficulty for the Italians from southern Italy to adapt to a completely different environment and, later on, the alliance between Germany and Italy. Under the 1939 South Tyrol Option Agreement, Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini determined the status of the German people living in the province. They either had to opt for emigration to Germany or stay in Italy and become fully Italianized. Because of the outbreak of World War II, this agreement was never fully implemented and most ethnic Germans remained or returned at the end of the war.\n\nIn the 21st century, almost 100 years after the Italian annexation of South Tyrol, 64% of the population of South Tyrol still speak German as their first language.\n\nThe cultural remnants of the Venetian period were Mussolini's pretext to incorporate the Ionian Islands into the Kingdom of Italy. Even before the outbreak of World War II and the Greek-Italian 1940-1941 Winter War, Mussolini had expressed his wish to annex the Ionian Islands as an Italian province. After the fall of Greece in early April 1941, the Italians occupied much of the country, including the Ionians. Mussolini informed General Carlo Geloso that the Ionian Islands would form a separate Italian province through a de facto annexation, but the Germans would not approve it. Nevertheless, the Italian authorities continued to prepare the ground for the annexation. Finally, on 22 April 1941, after discussions between the German and Italian rulers, Hitler agreed that Italy could proceed with a de facto annexation of the islands. Thus on 10 August 1941 the islands of Corfu, Cephalonia, Zakynthos, Lefkada and some minor islands were officially annexed by Italy as part of the \"Grande Communità del Nuovo Impero Romano\" (Great Community of the New Roman Empire).\nAs soon as the fascist governor Piero Parini had installed himself on Corfu he vigorously began a forced Italianization policy that lasted until the end of the war. The islands passed through a phase of Italianization in all areas, from their administration to their economy. Italian was designated the islands' only official language; a new currency, the Ionian drachma, was introduced with the aim to hamper trade with the rest of Greece, which was forbidden by Parini. Transportation with continental Greece was limited; in the courts, judges had to apply Italian law, and schooling followed the educational model of the Italian mainland. Greek administrative officials were replaced by Italian ones, administrative officials of non-Ionic origin were expelled, the local gendarmes were partially replaced by Italian Carabinieri, although Parini initially allowed the Greek judges to continue their work, they were ultimately replaced by an Italian Military Court based in Corfu. The \"return to the Venetian order\" and the italianization as pursued by Parini were even more drastic than the italianization policies elsewhere, as their aim was a forced and abrupt cessation of all cultural and historical ties with the old mother country. The only newspaper on the islands was the Italian language \"Giornale del Popolo\". By early 1942 pre-war politicians in the Ionian Islands began to protest Parini's harsh policies. Parini reacted by opening a concentration camp on the island of Paxi, to which two more camps were added on Othonoi and Lazaretto islands. Parini's police troops arrested about 3,500 people, which were imprisoned at these three camps. The Italianization efforts in the Ionian islands ended in September 1943, when Italy switched sides and began to back the Allies.\n"}
{"id": "40580932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40580932", "title": "Jesús Javier Corpas Mauleón", "text": "Jesús Javier Corpas Mauleón\n\nJesús Javier Corpas Mauleón is a Spanish writer born in Estella, Navarre, Spain. Author of numerous works published in the Spanish journals \"Historia Militar\", \"Serga\", \"Medioevo\", and \"Calle Mayor\", since August 2013 he has been a member of the scientific board of the prestigious Hispanic-American journal \"La Razón Histórica\".\n\nHe is the author of the following books:\n\nHe has appeared on various television and radio programs, moderated panel discussions, given conferences. He has been judge for the Festival of San Fermín awards. In recognition of his body of work, which includes novels, stories, and essays, he been made a Knight of Santiago and received the Cross of Honor of the European Defense Forces.\n\nDiario El Mundo,domingo 9-2-2014 El Cultural Beatríz Rucabado\n"}
{"id": "7310484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7310484", "title": "Joseph Marmette", "text": "Joseph Marmette\n\nJoseph-Étienne-Eugène Marmette (October 25, 1844 – May 7, 1895) was a Canadian novelist and historian.\n\nBorn in Montmagny, Canada East, Marmette was educated at the Séminaire de Québec and Regiopolis College. He started studying law at the Université Laval but did not complete his studies. Instead he became a clerk in the office of the Treasury of the provincial government. In 1882, he moved to Europe when he was appointed a special agent for immigration for Switzerland and France. While in Europe, he was appointed Canadian archivist in France. He was succeeded by Édouard Richard.\n\nHe was one of the founders of the \"Cercle des Dix\", a group where literature, history, science, and geography were discussed. Other members were Benjamin Sulte, Alfred Duclos, and Alphonse Lusignan.\n\nHis daughter Marie-Louise Marmette was an author and lecturer.\n\nHe died in Ottawa, Ontario in 1895.\n\nJoseph Marmette wrote mainly historical novels, covering the period of New France and immediately after the War of the Conquest. His works provides a detailed historical framework and are inspired by the romantic school and the characters are shared between good and evil.\n\nHis first historical novel Charles and Eva, written at the age of 20, appeared in The Canadian Journal from December 1866 to May 1867. It happened during the expedition of New France against Corlar (Schenectady) in the colony of New York in 1689. Canadians showed their courage and endurance. The hero of the novel Charles Couillard-Dupuis falls in love with the orphan Eva Frantova and brings her back to Quebec. The book marks a novelty in the novelistic genre of Quebec literature, placing fictitious action in a real event and compelling an important historiographical research.\n\nA posthumous edition is made in 1945 by Éditions Lumen. The novel \"François de Bienville\" (1870), scenes from Canadian life in the seventeenth century, focuses on the historical figure of François Le Moyne de Bienville.\n\n\"L'Intendant Bigot\" (1872) is a novel centered on the historical figure of François Bigot, a dishonest steward of New France.\n\nThe book \"Heroism and Treason - Canadian Stories\" (1879) contains an addition on the heroic deeds of Madeleine de Verchères against Iroquois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3798983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798983", "title": "Justo Sierra", "text": "Justo Sierra\n\nJusto Sierra Méndez (January 26, 1848 – September 13, 1912), was a prominent liberal Mexican writer, historian, journalist, poet and political figure of the second half of the nineteenth century and early twentieth century.\n\nHe was the son of Mexican novelist Justo Sierra O'Reilly, who is credited with inspiring his son with the spirit of literature. Sierra moved to Mexico City at the age of 13 in 1861, the year of his father's death, and also, coincidentally, the year of the French intervention in Mexico. Together with his fellow young students, Sierra responded with patriotic fervor to the invasion of his country, and became a lifelong militant liberal.\n\nHis most enduring works are sociopolitical histories (at times verging on memoirs) of the era of Benito Juárez and Porfirio Díaz, particularly his political biography of Juárez and his \"Evolución política del pueblo mexicano\". Antonio Caso is considered the definitive statement of the age of the Reform in Mexico. Sierra was elected a member of the Mexican Academy of Language in 1887, and served as the Academy's sixth director from 1910 until his death in 1912.\n\nElected to several terms as a representative in the federal Chamber of Deputies, Sierra also served the government in various posts. From 1905 to 1911, he agreed to serve as the Secretary of Public Education under the Díaz regime. However, he never made a secret of his liberal sympathies and his distaste for the politics of the authoritarian regime. After the overthrow of Díaz in May 1911 and the election of Francisco I. Madero at the outset of the Mexican Revolution, Madero chose Sierra to serve as the Mexican ambassador to Spain. Sierra died in Madrid in 1912 while serving in his post. His remains were returned to Mexico, where presided over his magnificent funeral.\n\nJusto Sierra made significant contributions to the writing of Mexican history. His texts on pre-revolutionary Mexico continued to be used in Mexican public schools even after the Mexican Revolution. President Álvaro Obregón's Minister of Public Education, José Vasconcelos republished Sierra's \"Historia Patria\" for use in schools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19219247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19219247", "title": "Kenneth Wheare", "text": "Kenneth Wheare\n\nSir Kenneth Clinton Wheare, CMG (26 March 1907 – 7 September 1979) was an Australian academic, who spent most of his career at Oxford University in England. He was an expert on the constitutions of the British Commonwealth.\n\nWheare was educated at Scotch College, Melbourne and was later a student at Oriel College, Oxford, gaining a first class degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and also undertaking postgraduate study. He met his wife Joan (1915-2013) when he was her tutor. One of their sons is Tom Wheare.\n\nWheare served on the Oxford City Council from 1940 to 1957.\n\nIn 1944, he was appointed Gladstone Professor of Government at All Souls College. In 1956, he became Rector of Exeter College, Oxford. A gargoyle of his likeness is carved on the Bodleian Library, visible from the Exeter College Fellow's Garden.\n\nWheare was Chairman of the Rhodes Trust (1962–69), President of the British Academy (1967–71), Chancellor of the University of Liverpool from 1972. He was also a Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford from 1964–66.\n\nHe was appointed Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in 1953 and was knighted in 1966.\n\nIn 2017, Oxford Brookes University named a newly rebuilt lecture hall after Wheare.\n"}
{"id": "5710458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5710458", "title": "Lloyd Pye", "text": "Lloyd Pye\n\nLloyd Anthony Pye Jr. (September 7, 1946 – December 9, 2013) was an American author and paranormal researcher best known for his promotion of the Starchild skull. He claimed it was the relic of a human-alien hybrid, although genetic testing showed it to be from a human male. He also promoted the ideas that cryptozoological creatures such as Bigfoot are real and that aliens intervened in human development.\n\nPye's first book \"That Prosser Kid\" (1977), a fictional account of college football, was said to have \"achieved considerable recognition\" by the Continuum Encyclopedia of American Literature, and was called \"lively but unoriginal\" by \"The Boston Globe\". It received negative reviews in \"The New York Times Book Review\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\". His 1988 book \"Mismatch\" was called a \"novel that ought to go on your must read list\" by \"Deseret News\".\n\nPye also gave lectures and made television appearances in support of his ideas on The Learning Channel, National Geographic Channel, \"Extra\", Animal Planet, and \"Richard & Judy\" in the United Kingdom. Pye stated that he believed Bigfoot to exist, as well as the similar Mongolian cryptid the \"Almas\".\n\nIn the 1980s, Pye wrote for television shows, including \"Scarecrow and Mrs. King\" and \"Magnum, P.I.\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, Pye obtained a curiously shaped skull from a couple in El Paso, Texas that he believed was an alien-human hybrid. DNA tests show that the skull is from a human male. American clinical neurologist Steven Novella has said the skull belongs to a child who suffered from hydrocephalus.\n\nIn 2009, Pye took a replica of the skull on a lecture tour of Europe, including an appearance at the Leeds Exopolitics Expo.\n\nPye was born in Houma, Louisiana, to Lloyd A. Pye Sr., an optometrist (1922–2007), and Nina Jo Pye (née Boyles); Lloyd Pye had two brothers and a sister. He earned a football scholarship to Tulane University in New Orleans as a Running back/Punter from 1964–1968. He was the Tulane Green Wave football team's leading punter 1967–1968. He graduated in 1968 with a B.S. in psychology and joined the United States Army as a military intelligence specialist. He later lived in Pensacola, Florida.\n\nIn 2013, Pye was diagnosed with lymphoma and retired from active research and promotion of the starchild skull. Lloyd Pye died December 9, 2013 at his home in Destin, Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48473610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48473610", "title": "Louise de Broglie, Countess d'Haussonville", "text": "Louise de Broglie, Countess d'Haussonville\n\nLouise de Broglie, Countess d'Haussonville (25 May 1818 – 21 April 1882) was a French essayist and biographer, and a member of the House of Broglie, a distinguished French family. A granddaughter of the novelist Germaine de Staël, she was considered independent, liberal, and outspoken. Her 1845 portrait by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, which took three years to complete, has been exhibited in the Frick Collection in New York City since the 1930s.\n\nTitled from birth (as was the custom in her father's aristocratic family) as Louise Albertine, Princess de Broglie, she was the daughter of statesman and diplomat Victor de Broglie, 3rd Duke de Broglie and Albertine, Baroness Staël von Holstein. She was the oldest of three children to survive to adulthood; her brother Albert would inherit the de Broglie ducal title and achieve political and literary renown, while her youngest brother Auguste, the future Abbé de Broglie, would pursue an ecclesiastical career. Through her mother, Louise was the granddaughter of famed \"saloniste\" and novelist Germaine de Staël, better known as Madame de Staël. Although de Staël died a year before her birth, Louise was born in her grandmother's Château de Coppet in Switzerland, a residence made famous through de Staël's writings and cultural notoriety. She would inherit the Coppet estate in 1878, and be buried there; the property, which has been open to the public since 1924–1925, is still owned by the Countess d'Haussonville's descendants.\nGermaine de Staël was the daughter of the Swiss banker and politician Jacques Necker, who had been Louis XVI's director-general of finance, and his wife Suzanne Curchod, the poor but well-educated daughter of a Swiss pastor (Curchod had previously been engaged to historian Edward Gibbon). Louise's maternal grandfather was said to be Erik Magnus Staël von Holstein, Swedish Ambassador to France, but as de Staël also maintained a longstanding romantic relationship and intellectual collaboration with liberal political activist and writer Benjamin Constant, who believed he fathered Albertine (Louise's mother), it is possible that Constant was her biological grandfather.\n\nLouise wrote an unpublished autobiography recounting a highly cultured education and upbringing. From an early age, she was enthusiastic about literature and music, opera in particular—Ingres would later include opera glasses in her portrait. Notably intellectual, she was said to have read every new book. At age 11, she attended the opening night of Victor Hugo's play \"Hernani\", famous for the demonstrations it provoked; as a young pianist, she had personally known Chopin. She was also considered a talented watercolorist, capable of painting dramatic, convincing scenes. Nevertheless, she took personal criticism to heart, recalling that her mother in childhood likened her to \"a pretty vase without handles\"; another critic told her (at age nine) that her character \"had not enough nourishment in it to sustain a dog\", and compared her to \"a field mouse, a topaz, a roe deer, a blue fairy and a spark\". According to this same person, her heraldic emblem should have been a runaway horse.\n\nIn October 1836 at age 18, she married the future French National Assembly member and historian Joseph d'Haussonville (1809–1884). \"I was destined to beguile, to attract, to seduce, and in the final reckoning to cause suffering in all those who sought their happiness in me\", Louise wrote; \"I wanted to marry young and have a brilliant position in society. And that, basically, was the only reason I wanted to marry him\", she said. Upon her marriage, she became Louise de Cléron, Viscountess d'Haussonville. (She would later become Louise de Cléron, Countess d'Haussonville upon the death of her father-in-law in 1846.) Whatever her initial sentiments, the marriage seems to have evolved into a happy one; the couple lived in the Hôtel de Broglie, 35 rue Saint-Dominique, a residence renovated for them by the fashionable architect and interior designer Hippolyte Destailleur. They had three children: Victor-Bernard (1837–1838), who died in infancy, Mathilde (1839–1898), who never married, and Gabriel Paul Othenin Bernard, known as Paul-Gabriel d'Haussonville (1843–1924), a renowned politician and essayist, through whom she has many descendants.\n\nLouise is unique in history for being the daughter, sister, spouse, and mother of four members of the French Academy: Her father Victor, brother Albert, husband Joseph, and son Paul-Gabriel did not occupy their Academy seats simultaneously, with Paul-Gabriel elected in 1888, six years after his mother's death. Louise was the great-aunt of Louis de Broglie, who would win the 1924 Nobel Prize in Physics for his foundational work on quantum theory. She was also the great-grandmother of philologist Béatrix d'Andlau (1893–1989) and her brother Jean Le Marois (1895–1978), poet and dramatist, who were both members of the Andlau family.\n\nLouise was considered independent, liberal, and outspoken, both by the standards of the day and particularly given the circumstances of her elevated social rank. She published an extended biographical essay in 1858 on the Irish nationalist Robert Emmet, an 1861 biography of Marie Adélaïde of Savoy (\"Souvenirs d'une demoiselle d'honneur de Mme la duchesse de Bourgogne\"), and an 1870 biography of Marguerite of Valois (\"Marguerite de Valois, reine de Navarre\"). In 1872 and 1874, she published a two-volume biography of Lord Byron (\"La Jeunesse de Lord Byron\" and \"Les Dernières Années de Lord Byron: Les rives du Lac de Genève, l'Italie, la Grece\"), which drew from her grandmother Madame de Staël's observations and interactions with the English poet. In 1875, she published a biography and critique of the works of Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve (\"C.-A. Sainte-Beuve: sa vie et ses oeuvres\").\n\nIn 1838, two years into the marriage, Viscount d'Haussonville sought to have his wife's portrait painted by Franz Xaver Winterhalter, a favorite of European royalty, but Winterhalter was unavailable. They next considered Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres; Louise and her husband first met Ingres in Rome in 1840, while he was directing the French Academy in Rome and living at the Villa Medici. They became convinced of his suitability to paint her portrait after viewing his recently completed \"Antiochus and Stratonice\" (today in the Condé Museum).\n\nAt around the same time, Ingres, by then 60 years old and convinced his reputation would be secured through larger-scale undertakings, expressed dismay to a friend that \"everyone wants\" portraits. \"There are six that I am refusing or trying to avoid because I can't bear them. Well, it was not to paint portraits that I returned to Paris.\" Although it is unknown whether Louise's portrait was among those commissions Ingres hoped to avoid, preliminary sketches indicate that by summer 1842 he had taken up the task. From the perspective of both painter and sitter, the process was not easy. Louise would spend months abroad at a time, and her sittings were interrupted by pregnancy. At least 16 preparatory sketches exist, as well as an early trial portrait in oil, and with dozens of drapery studies, some 60 extant Ingres works are thought to have informed the finished work. Ingres significantly revised Louise's costume and refined her facial expression, adding extensive notes to at least one working draft: \"indent the nostril\", \"chin sharper\", \"eyeballs smaller\", \"nose narrower\". He once told his pupil Amaury Duval that as difficult as portraiture was, women's portraits posed a particular challenge: \"It can't be done\", he said. \"It's enough to make one weep.\" Ingres spent the first six months of 1845 working intensely on the portrait, which was finished by summer of that year.\nArt historian (and Frick curator emeritus) Edgar Munhall has suggested that both \"Antiochus and Stratonice\" as well as Ingres's portrait of Louise owe an inspirational debt to the pose of Pudicitia (\"modesty\" or \"sexual valor\"), a Roman statue of a goddess on display in the Vatican collection. In his book on Ingres, Robert Rosenblum connects her pose to Polyhymnia, muse of sacred poetry, hymn, and eloquence, as depicted particularly in the Louvre's Roman copy of a Greek original. Regardless of the specific inspiration, Ingres's portrait of Louise depicts a woman both modest and worldly, her gaze fixed on the viewer who seems almost to have surprised her, after her return from the opera, having casually removed her evening wrap.\nMany critics have noted the anatomical impossibility of Louise's pose, her right arm seeming to originate at her left shoulder. It would also be impossible to see Louise's raised hand in the mirror's reflection, though Ingres included it. Although many viewers have assumed Louise's portrait faithfully reflects contemporary fashion, recent scholarship has established that Louise's dress was pointedly out-of-style by the time Ingres painted her, as if to emphasize that the subject's intelligence and relative informality trumped her allegiance to fashionable trends.\n\nThe painting remained in the family's private possession for eighty years, though it was displayed publicly on occasion. Its first Paris exhibition in 1846 created \"a storm of approval among her family and friends\", Ingres wrote a friend, relaying in confidence that a prominent politician had written Louise saying \"M Ingres must be in love with you to have painted you this way\". The portrait was subsequently exhibited in 1855, 1867, 1874, and 1910, and was engraved in 1889 and again in 1910; it was also circulated in photographed form.\n\nFollowing the death of Paul-Gabriel d'Haussonville in 1924, his descendants sold the painting to offset estate taxes to art dealer Georges Wildenstein, from whom it was next acquired by the Frick Collection for $125,000 in 1927. It has been almost continuously on public display in New York City since the opening of Henry Clay Frick's home as a museum in 1935. Unlike works acquired directly by Frick before his death in 1919, \"Comtesse d'Haussonville\" can be loaned and exhibited elsewhere, and made its first visit to California in 2009–2010 where it was the centerpiece of an exhibit by the Norton Simon Museum. The painting returned to Europe in early 2015 where it was exhibited at the Mauritshuis in The Hague.\n"}
{"id": "34441497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34441497", "title": "Mabel Whitaker", "text": "Mabel Whitaker\n\nMabel Whitaker (1884–1976) was a notable New Zealand teacher and local historian. She was born in Belfast, North Canterbury, New Zealand in 1884.\n"}
{"id": "6703068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6703068", "title": "Matthew Stirling", "text": "Matthew Stirling\n\nMatthew Williams Stirling (August 28, 1896 – January 23, 1975) was an American ethnologist, archaeologist and later an administrator at several scientific institutions in the field. He is best known for his discoveries relating to the Olmec civilization.\n\nStirling began his career with extensive ethnological work in the United States, New Guinea and Ecuador, before directing his attention to the Olmec civilization and its possible primacy among the pre-Columbian societies of Mesoamerica. His discovery of, and excavations at, various sites attributed to Olmec culture in the Mexican Gulf Coast region significantly contributed towards a better understanding of the Olmecs and their culture. He then began investigating links between the different civilizations in the region. Apart from his extensive field work and publications, later in his career Stirling proved to be an able administrator of academic and research bodies, who served on directorship boards of a number of scientific organizations.\n\nMatthew was born in Salinas, California, where his father managed the Southern Pacific Milling Company. Most of his childhood days were spent on his grandfather's ranch where he first developed an interest in antiquity, collecting arrowheads and researching artefacts.\n\nStirling majored in anthropology under Alfred L. Kroeber, graduating from the University of California in 1920. His interest in the Olmecs began in about 1918, when he saw a picture of a \"crying-baby\" blue jade masquette, published by Thomas Wilson of the Smithsonian Institution in 1898. When he traveled to Europe with his family after graduation, he found the masquette itself in the Berlin Museum, and intrigued by the Olmec culture, took time to look at other specimens in the Maximilian Collection in Vienna, and later, in Madrid.\n\nStirling was a teaching fellow at the University of California during 1920–21. He then joined the Smithsonian Institution, as a museum aide and assistant curator in its Division of Ethnology at the National Museum. He worked there until 1925. He located several more Olmec pieces in the museum. During this period, he also obtained his master's degree in Anthropology from the George Washington University. He was later, in 1943, to receive a Doctorate in Science from Tampa University.\n\nHe excavated on Weedon Island for the Bureau of American Ethnology (BAE) in 1923–24, and at Arikara villages in Mobridge, South Dakota, during the summer of 1924. Stirling resigned from the Smithsonian to lead a 400-member, Smithsonian Institution-Dutch Colonial Government, expedition to New Guinea in 1925. He conducted ethnological and physical anthropological studies among the indigenous peoples there, and collected a number of natural history specimens, which now form one of the most valuable collections in the National Museum.\n\nHe returned to take over as chief of the Smithsonian's Bureau of American Ethnology in 1928. He retained the position until 1957, his title changing to director in 1947. He went to Ecuador in 1931–32, conducting ethnological studies of the Jívaro, as part of Donald C. Beatty's expedition. He also worked along the Gulf Coast, directing archaeological digs in Florida and Georgia.\n\nHe married Marion Illig (1911–2001) on December 11, 1933. She was his secretary at the BAE, and was to accompany him on most of his archaeological expeditions. Together they had a son and a daughter.\n\nStirling was intrigued by Marshall Saville's two 1929 reports, \"Votive Axes from Ancient Mexico\". Subsequent discussions with Saville launched Stirling into a phase of his career which would be focused on what was then beginning to be called Olmec culture.\n\nThe Olmec were an ancient Pre-Columbian people living in south-central Mexico, in the modern-day states of Veracruz and Tabasco, from about 1200 BCE to 400 BCE. They are claimed by many to be the mother culture of every primary element common to later Mesoamerican civilizations.\n\nThe name \"Olmec\" means \"rubber people\" in Nahuatl, the language of the Aztecs. It was the Aztec name for the people who lived in this area at the time of Aztec dominance, referring to them as those who supplied the rubber balls used for games. Early modern explorers applied the name \"Olmec\" to ruins and art from this area before it was understood that these had been already abandoned more than a thousand years before the time of the people the Aztecs knew as the \"Olmec\".\n\nBy 1929, Stirling had begun suspecting that the artifacts emerging out of Mexico belonged to a time much earlier than attributed to the Olmecs. From the BAE, he directed excavations in fringes of the area thought to be Maya. He himself travelled in 1938 to the western margin and concentrated on the Tres Zapotes site. He noted the position of the colossal head – surrounded by four mounds – and the presence of a vast mound group in the area. He interested the National Geographic Society enough to be granted funds for excavation. This began a sixteen-year association with the site.\n\nIt was at Tres Zapotes in 1939 that Stirling found Stela C. The top half of the monument was missing but the bottom half produced a Long Count date of ?.16.6.16.18. If the first digit was a \"7\" then the date would correlate to 32 BCE, a date considered by many to be too early for a Mesoamerican civilization. An \"8\" would mean a date of 363 CE. The Stirlings opted for the earlier date, to the consternation of many in the archaeological community.\n\nThey were proven correct in 1970, when the top half of Stela C was discovered, and the earlier date of 7.16.6.16.18, or 32 BCE, was confirmed.\n\nHe also led the first of several expeditions to San Lorenzo Tenochtitlán (1938), La Venta (1939–40) and Cerro de las Mesas (1940–41). In 1941, Stirling unearthed a large carved stone monument in Izapa, which he labeled Stela 5.\n\nStirling was unable to return to La Venta until 1942, due to World War II. When he did, he was to excavate several important artifacts. He then left for Tuxtla Gutiérrez to attend a conference on the Maya and Olmec cultures, one that was to become a defining moment in modern ideas about the Olmec. It was here that Miguel Covarrubias and Dr. Alfonso Caso first presented the case for the Olmec culture as being the \"mother culture\" of Mesoamerica, pre-dating even the Maya. Stirling supported their hypothesis, as he did Covarrubias in his interpretation of Olmec art. For example, Monument 1 at Río Chiquito and Monument 3 at Potrero Nuevo were, according to Stirling, the mythological union of a jaguar and a woman that produced \"almost jaguar children\".\n\nIt would be nearly 15 years before radiocarbon dating finally confirmed that the Olmec pre-dated the Maya. The Olmec culture is generally considered to have lasted from 1400 BCE until 400 BCE.\n\nStirling began searching for links between Mesoamerican and South American cultures in Panama, Ecuador, and Costa Rica from 1948 to 1954. He was also the chief organizer of the seven-volume \"Handbook of South American Indians\".\n\nHe conducted excavations in the Linea Vieja lowlands of Costa Rica in the 1960s. Concentrating on tombs, he dug at five sites between Siquirres and Guapiles, and published a series of C- 14 dates ranging from 1440 to 1470 CE, and arranged much of the pottery excavated in an approximate chronological sequence.\n\nIn the Sierra de Ameca between Ahualulco de Mercado and Ameca, Jalisco, a large number of stone spheres, many of which are almost perfectly spherical, can be found. Their generally spherical shape led people to suspect they were manmade stone balls, called petrospheres, created by an unknown culture. In 1967, Stirling examined these stone spheres in the field. As a result of this examination, he and his colleagues hypothesized that they were of geological origin. A later expedition and subsequent petrographic and other laboratory analyses of samples of the stone balls confirmed this suspicion. Their interpretation of the data collected in both field and laboratory is that these stone balls were formed by high temperature nucleation of glassy material within an ashfall tuff, as a result of tertiary volcanism.\n\nStirling was president of the Anthropological Society of Washington in 1934–1935 and vice president of the American Anthropological Association in 1935–36. He received the National Geographic Society's Franklyn L. Burr Award for meritorious service in 1939, 1941 (shared with his wife Marion) and 1958. He was also on the Ethnographic Board, which was the Smithsonian's effort to make its scientific research available to the military agencies during World War II.\n\nAfter his retirement, Stirling was a Smithsonian research associate, a National Park Service collaborator, and member of the National Geographic Committee on Research and Exploration.\n\nStirling died in 1975, aged 78, after a period of illness associated with cancer.\n\nMarion Stirling donated around 5000 volumes from his library to the Boundary End Archaeology Research Center (earlier the Center for Maya Research). They include a collection of scholarly pamphlets and reprints from the mid-19th century on, complete runs of the American Anthropologist (1881– ); American Antiquity (1935– ), Bulletins 1–200 and Annual Reports 1–48 of the Bureau of American Ethnology, and all the Anthropological Papers of the American Museum of Natural History.\n\nThe museum, in the University of California, Berkeley, displays 165 Dyak and Papuan objects, including steel axes, basketry, arrows and wooden boxes, from Borneo, donated by Stirling.\n\nPreserved at the Human Studies Film Archive, Suitland, Maryland:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836", "title": "Middle Ages", "text": "Middle Ages\n\nIn the history of Europe, the Middle Ages (or Medieval period) lasted from the 5th to the 15th century. It began with the fall of the Western Roman Empire and merged into the Renaissance and the Age of Discovery. The Middle Ages is the middle period of the three traditional divisions of Western history: classical antiquity, the medieval period, and the modern period. The medieval period is itself subdivided into the Early, High, and Late Middle Ages.\n\nPopulation decline, counterurbanisation, invasion, and movement of peoples, which had begun in Late Antiquity, continued in the Early Middle Ages. The large-scale movements of the Migration Period, including various Germanic peoples, formed new kingdoms in what remained of the Western Roman Empire. In the 7th century, North Africa and the Middle East—once part of the Byzantine Empire—came under the rule of the Umayyad Caliphate, an Islamic empire, after conquest by Muhammad's successors. Although there were substantial changes in society and political structures, the break with classical antiquity was not complete. The still-sizeable Byzantine Empire, Rome's direct continuation, survived in the Eastern Mediterranean and remained a major power. The empire's law code, the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" or \"Code of Justinian\", was rediscovered in Northern Italy in 1070 and became widely admired later in the Middle Ages. In the West, most kingdoms incorporated the few extant Roman institutions. Monasteries were founded as campaigns to Christianise pagan Europe continued. The Franks, under the Carolingian dynasty, briefly established the Carolingian Empire during the later 8th and early 9th century. It covered much of Western Europe but later succumbed to the pressures of internal civil wars combined with external invasions: Vikings from the north, Magyars from the east, and Saracens from the south.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages, which began after 1000, the population of Europe increased greatly as technological and agricultural innovations allowed trade to flourish and the Medieval Warm Period climate change allowed crop yields to increase. Manorialism, the organisation of peasants into villages that owed rent and labour services to the nobles, and feudalism, the political structure whereby knights and lower-status nobles owed military service to their overlords in return for the right to rent from lands and manors, were two of the ways society was organised in the High Middle Ages. The Crusades, first preached in 1095, were military attempts by Western European Christians to regain control of the Holy Land from Muslims. Kings became the heads of centralised nation-states, reducing crime and violence but making the ideal of a unified Christendom more distant. Intellectual life was marked by scholasticism, a philosophy that emphasised joining faith to reason, and by the founding of universities. The theology of Thomas Aquinas, the paintings of Giotto, the poetry of Dante and Chaucer, the travels of Marco Polo, and the Gothic architecture of cathedrals such as Chartres are among the outstanding achievements toward the end of this period and into the Late Middle Ages.\n\nThe Late Middle Ages was marked by difficulties and calamities including famine, plague, and war, which significantly diminished the population of Europe; between 1347 and 1350, the Black Death killed about a third of Europeans. Controversy, heresy, and the Western Schism within the Catholic Church paralleled the interstate conflict, civil strife, and peasant revolts that occurred in the kingdoms. Cultural and technological developments transformed European society, concluding the Late Middle Ages and beginning the early modern period.\n\nThe Middle Ages is one of the three major periods in the most enduring scheme for analysing European history: classical civilisation, or Antiquity; the Middle Ages; and the Modern Period.\n\nMedieval writers divided history into periods such as the \"Six Ages\" or the \"Four Empires\", and considered their time to be the last before the end of the world. When referring to their own times, they spoke of them as being \"modern\". In the 1330s, the humanist and poet Petrarch referred to pre-Christian times as \"antiqua\" (or \"ancient\") and to the Christian period as \"nova\" (or \"new\"). Leonardo Bruni was the first historian to use tripartite periodisation in his \"History of the Florentine People\" (1442). Bruni and later historians argued that Italy had recovered since Petrarch's time, and therefore added a third period to Petrarch's two. The \"Middle Ages\" first appears in Latin in 1469 as \"media tempestas\" or \"middle season\". In early usage, there were many variants, including \"medium aevum\", or \"middle age\", first recorded in 1604, and \"media saecula\", or \"middle ages\", first recorded in 1625. The alternative term \"medieval\" (or occasionally \"mediaeval\" or \"mediæval\") derives from \"medium aevum\". Tripartite periodisation became standard after the German 17th-century historian Christoph Cellarius divided history into three periods: Ancient, Medieval, and Modern.\n\nThe most commonly given starting point for the Middle Ages is around 500, with the date of 476 first used by Bruni. Later starting dates are sometimes used in the outer parts of Europe. For Europe as a whole, 1500 is often considered to be the end of the Middle Ages, but there is no universally agreed upon end date. Depending on the context, events such as the conquest of Constantinople by the Turks in 1453, Christopher Columbus's first voyage to the Americas in 1492, or the Protestant Reformation in 1517 are sometimes used. English historians often use the Battle of Bosworth Field in 1485 to mark the end of the period. For Spain, dates commonly used are the death of King Ferdinand II in 1516, the death of Queen Isabella I of Castile in 1504, or the conquest of Granada in 1492. Historians from Romance-speaking countries tend to divide the Middle Ages into two parts: an earlier \"High\" and later \"Low\" period. English-speaking historians, following their German counterparts, generally subdivide the Middle Ages into three intervals: \"Early\", \"High\", and \"Late\". In the 19th century, the entire Middle Ages were often referred to as the \"Dark Ages\", but with the adoption of these subdivisions, use of this term was restricted to the Early Middle Ages, at least among historians.\n\nThe Roman Empire reached its greatest territorial extent during the 2nd century AD; the following two centuries witnessed the slow decline of Roman control over its outlying territories. Economic issues, including inflation, and external pressure on the frontiers combined to create the Crisis of the Third Century, with emperors coming to the throne only to be rapidly replaced by new usurpers. Military expenses increased steadily during the 3rd century, mainly in response to the war with the Sasanian Empire, which revived in the middle of the 3rd century. The army doubled in size, and cavalry and smaller units replaced the Roman legion as the main tactical unit. The need for revenue led to increased taxes and a decline in numbers of the curial, or landowning, class, and decreasing numbers of them willing to shoulder the burdens of holding office in their native towns. More bureaucrats were needed in the central administration to deal with the needs of the army, which led to complaints from civilians that there were more tax-collectors in the empire than tax-payers.\n\nThe Emperor Diocletian (r. 284–305) split the empire into separately administered eastern and western halves in 286; the empire was not considered divided by its inhabitants or rulers, as legal and administrative promulgations in one division were considered valid in the other. In 330, after a period of civil war, Constantine the Great (r. 306–337) refounded the city of Byzantium as the newly renamed eastern capital, Constantinople. Diocletian's reforms strengthened the governmental bureaucracy, reformed taxation, and strengthened the army, which bought the empire time but did not resolve the problems it was facing: excessive taxation, a declining birthrate, and pressures on its frontiers, among others. Civil war between rival emperors became common in the middle of the 4th century, diverting soldiers from the empire's frontier forces and allowing invaders to encroach. For much of the 4th century, Roman society stabilised in a new form that differed from the earlier classical period, with a widening gulf between the rich and poor, and a decline in the vitality of the smaller towns. Another change was the Christianisation, or conversion of the empire to Christianity, a gradual process that lasted from the 2nd to the 5th centuries.\n\nIn 376, the Goths, fleeing from the Huns, received permission from Emperor Valens (r. 364–378) to settle in the Roman province of Thracia in the Balkans. The settlement did not go smoothly, and when Roman officials mishandled the situation, the Goths began to raid and plunder. Valens, attempting to put down the disorder, was killed fighting the Goths at the Battle of Adrianople on 9 August 378. As well as the threat from such tribal confederacies from the north, internal divisions within the empire, especially within the Christian Church, caused problems. In 400, the Visigoths invaded the Western Roman Empire and, although briefly forced back from Italy, in 410 sacked the city of Rome. In 406 the Alans, Vandals, and Suevi crossed into Gaul; over the next three years they spread across Gaul and in 409 crossed the Pyrenees Mountains into modern-day Spain. The Migration Period began, when various peoples, initially largely Germanic peoples, moved across Europe. The Franks, Alemanni, and the Burgundians all ended up in northern Gaul while the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes settled in Britain, and the Vandals went on to cross the strait of Gibraltar after which they conquered the province of Africa. In the 430s the Huns began invading the empire; their king Attila (r. 434–453) led invasions into the Balkans in 442 and 447, Gaul in 451, and Italy in 452. The Hunnic threat remained until Attila's death in 453, when the Hunnic confederation he led fell apart. These invasions by the tribes completely changed the political and demographic nature of what had been the Western Roman Empire.\n\nBy the end of the 5th century the western section of the empire was divided into smaller political units, ruled by the tribes that had invaded in the early part of the century. The deposition of the last emperor of the west, Romulus Augustulus, in 476 has traditionally marked the end of the Western Roman Empire. By 493 the Italian peninsula was conquered by the Ostrogoths. The Eastern Roman Empire, often referred to as the Byzantine Empire after the fall of its western counterpart, had little ability to assert control over the lost western territories. The Byzantine emperors maintained a claim over the territory, but while none of the new kings in the west dared to elevate himself to the position of emperor of the west, Byzantine control of most of the Western Empire could not be sustained; the reconquest of the Mediterranean periphery and the Italian Peninsula (Gothic War) in the reign of Justinian (r. 527–565) was the sole, and temporary, exception.\n\nThe political structure of Western Europe changed with the end of the united Roman Empire. Although the movements of peoples during this period are usually described as \"invasions\", they were not just military expeditions but migrations of entire peoples into the empire. Such movements were aided by the refusal of the Western Roman elites to support the army or pay the taxes that would have allowed the military to suppress the migration. The emperors of the 5th century were often controlled by military strongmen such as Stilicho (d. 408), Aetius (d. 454), Aspar (d. 471), Ricimer (d. 472), or Gundobad (d. 516), who were partly or fully of non-Roman background. When the line of Western emperors ceased, many of the kings who replaced them were from the same background. Intermarriage between the new kings and the Roman elites was common. This led to a fusion of Roman culture with the customs of the invading tribes, including the popular assemblies that allowed free male tribal members more say in political matters than was common in the Roman state. Material artefacts left by the Romans and the invaders are often similar, and tribal items were often modelled on Roman objects. Much of the scholarly and written culture of the new kingdoms was also based on Roman intellectual traditions. An important difference was the gradual loss of tax revenue by the new polities. Many of the new political entities no longer supported their armies through taxes, instead relying on granting them land or rents. This meant there was less need for large tax revenues and so the taxation systems decayed. Warfare was common between and within the kingdoms. Slavery declined as the supply weakened, and society became more rural.\nBetween the 5th and 8th centuries, new peoples and individuals filled the political void left by Roman centralised government. The Ostrogoths, a Gothic tribe, settled in Roman Italy in the late fifth century under Theoderic the Great (d. 526) and set up a kingdom marked by its co-operation between the Italians and the Ostrogoths, at least until the last years of Theodoric's reign. The Burgundians settled in Gaul, and after an earlier realm was destroyed by the Huns in 436 formed a new kingdom in the 440s. Between today's Geneva and Lyon, it grew to become the realm of Burgundy in the late 5th and early 6th centuries. Elsewhere in Gaul, the Franks and Celtic Britons set up small polities. Francia was centred in northern Gaul, and the first king of whom much is known is Childeric I (d. 481). His grave was discovered in 1653 and is remarkable for its grave goods, which included weapons and a large quantity of gold.\n\nUnder Childeric's son Clovis I (r. 509–511), the founder of the Merovingian dynasty, the Frankish kingdom expanded and converted to Christianity. The Britons, related to the natives of Britannia – modern-day Great Britain – settled in what is now Brittany. Other monarchies were established by the Visigothic Kingdom in the Iberian Peninsula, the Suebi in northwestern Iberia, and the Vandal Kingdom in North Africa. In the sixth century, the Lombards settled in Northern Italy, replacing the Ostrogothic kingdom with a grouping of duchies that occasionally selected a king to rule over them all. By the late sixth century, this arrangement had been replaced by a permanent monarchy, the Kingdom of the Lombards.\n\nThe invasions brought new ethnic groups to Europe, although some regions received a larger influx of new peoples than others. In Gaul for instance, the invaders settled much more extensively in the north-east than in the south-west. Slavs settled in Central and Eastern Europe and the Balkan Peninsula. The settlement of peoples was accompanied by changes in languages. Latin, the literary language of the Western Roman Empire, was gradually replaced by vernacular languages which evolved from Latin, but were distinct from it, collectively known as Romance languages. These changes from Latin to the new languages took many centuries. Greek remained the language of the Byzantine Empire, but the migrations of the Slavs added Slavic languages to Eastern Europe.\n\nAs Western Europe witnessed the formation of new kingdoms, the Eastern Roman Empire remained intact and experienced an economic revival that lasted into the early 7th century. There were fewer invasions of the eastern section of the empire; most occurred in the Balkans. Peace with the Sasanian Empire, the traditional enemy of Rome, lasted throughout most of the 5th century. The Eastern Empire was marked by closer relations between the political state and Christian Church, with doctrinal matters assuming an importance in Eastern politics that they did not have in Western Europe. Legal developments included the codification of Roman law; the first effort—the \"Codex Theodosianus\"—was completed in 438. Under Emperor Justinian (r. 527–565), another compilation took place—the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\". Justinian also oversaw the construction of the Hagia Sophia in Constantinople and the reconquest of North Africa from the Vandals and Italy from the Ostrogoths, under Belisarius (d. 565). The conquest of Italy was not complete, as a deadly outbreak of plague in 542 led to the rest of Justinian's reign concentrating on defensive measures rather than further conquests.\n\nAt the Emperor's death, the Byzantines had control of most of Italy, North Africa, and a small foothold in southern Spain. Justinian's reconquests have been criticised by historians for overextending his realm and setting the stage for the early Muslim conquests, but many of the difficulties faced by Justinian's successors were due not just to over-taxation to pay for his wars but to the essentially civilian nature of the empire, which made raising troops difficult.\n\nIn the Eastern Empire the slow infiltration of the Balkans by the Slavs added a further difficulty for Justinian's successors. It began gradually, but by the late 540s Slavic tribes were in Thrace and Illyrium, and had defeated an imperial army near Adrianople in 551. In the 560s the Avars began to expand from their base on the north bank of the Danube; by the end of the 6th-century, they were the dominant power in Central Europe and routinely able to force the Eastern emperors to pay tribute. They remained a strong power until 796.\n\nAn additional problem to face the empire came as a result of the involvement of Emperor Maurice (r. 582–602) in Persian politics when he intervened in a succession dispute. This led to a period of peace, but when Maurice was overthrown, the Persians invaded and during the reign of Emperor Heraclius (r. 610–641) controlled large chunks of the empire, including Egypt, Syria, and Anatolia until Heraclius' successful counterattack. In 628 the empire secured a peace treaty and recovered all of its lost territories.\n\nIn Western Europe, some of the older Roman elite families died out while others became more involved with ecclesiastical than secular affairs. Values attached to Latin scholarship and education mostly disappeared, and while literacy remained important, it became a practical skill rather than a sign of elite status. In the 4th century, Jerome (d. 420) dreamed that God rebuked him for spending more time reading Cicero than the Bible. By the 6th century, Gregory of Tours (d. 594) had a similar dream, but instead of being chastised for reading Cicero, he was chastised for learning shorthand. By the late 6th century, the principal means of religious instruction in the Church had become music and art rather than the book. Most intellectual efforts went towards imitating classical scholarship, but some original works were created, along with now-lost oral compositions. The writings of Sidonius Apollinaris (d. 489), Cassiodorus (d. c. 585), and Boethius (d. c. 525) were typical of the age.\n\nChanges also took place among laymen, as aristocratic culture focused on great feasts held in halls rather than on literary pursuits. Clothing for the elites was richly embellished with jewels and gold. Lords and kings supported entourages of fighters who formed the backbone of the military forces. Family ties within the elites were important, as were the virtues of loyalty, courage, and honour. These ties led to the prevalence of the feud in aristocratic society, examples of which included those related by Gregory of Tours that took place in Merovingian Gaul. Most feuds seem to have ended quickly with the payment of some sort of compensation. Women took part in aristocratic society mainly in their roles as wives and mothers of men, with the role of mother of a ruler being especially prominent in Merovingian Gaul. In Anglo-Saxon society the lack of many child rulers meant a lesser role for women as queen mothers, but this was compensated for by the increased role played by abbesses of monasteries. Only in Italy does it appear that women were always considered under the protection and control of a male relative.\n\nPeasant society is much less documented than the nobility. Most of the surviving information available to historians comes from archaeology; few detailed written records documenting peasant life remain from before the 9th century. Most of the descriptions of the lower classes come from either law codes or writers from the upper classes. Landholding patterns in the West were not uniform; some areas had greatly fragmented landholding patterns, but in other areas large contiguous blocks of land were the norm. These differences allowed for a wide variety of peasant societies, some dominated by aristocratic landholders and others having a great deal of autonomy. Land settlement also varied greatly. Some peasants lived in large settlements that numbered as many as 700 inhabitants. Others lived in small groups of a few families and still others lived on isolated farms spread over the countryside. There were also areas where the pattern was a mix of two or more of those systems. Unlike in the late Roman period, there was no sharp break between the legal status of the free peasant and the aristocrat, and it was possible for a free peasant's family to rise into the aristocracy over several generations through military service to a powerful lord.\n\nRoman city life and culture changed greatly in the early Middle Ages. Although Italian cities remained inhabited, they contracted significantly in size. Rome, for instance, shrank from a population of hundreds of thousands to around 30,000 by the end of the 6th century. Roman temples were converted into Christian churches and city walls remained in use. In Northern Europe, cities also shrank, while civic monuments and other public buildings were raided for building materials. The establishment of new kingdoms often meant some growth for the towns chosen as capitals. Although there had been Jewish communities in many Roman cities, the Jews suffered periods of persecution after the conversion of the empire to Christianity. Officially they were tolerated, if subject to conversion efforts, and at times were even encouraged to settle in new areas.\n\nReligious beliefs in the Eastern Empire and Iran were in flux during the late sixth and early seventh centuries. Judaism was an active proselytising faith, and at least one Arab political leader converted to it. Christianity had active missions competing with the Persians' Zoroastrianism in seeking converts, especially among residents of the Arabian Peninsula. All these strands came together with the emergence of Islam in Arabia during the lifetime of Muhammad (d. 632). After his death, Islamic forces conquered much of the Eastern Empire and Persia, starting with Syria in 634–635 and reaching Egypt in 640–641, Persia between 637 and 642, North Africa in the later seventh century, and the Iberian Peninsula in 711. By 714, Islamic forces controlled much of the peninsula in a region they called Al-Andalus.\n\nThe Islamic conquests reached their peak in the mid-eighth century. The defeat of Muslim forces at the Battle of Tours in 732 led to the reconquest of southern France by the Franks, but the main reason for the halt of Islamic growth in Europe was the overthrow of the Umayyad Caliphate and its replacement by the Abbasid Caliphate. The Abbasids moved their capital to Baghdad and were more concerned with the Middle East than Europe, losing control of sections of the Muslim lands. Umayyad descendants took over the Iberian Peninsula, the Aghlabids controlled North Africa, and the Tulunids became rulers of Egypt. By the middle of the 8th century, new trading patterns were emerging in the Mediterranean; trade between the Franks and the Arabs replaced the old Roman economy. Franks traded timber, furs, swords and slaves in return for silks and other fabrics, spices, and precious metals from the Arabs.\n\nThe migrations and invasions of the 4th and 5th centuries disrupted trade networks around the Mediterranean. African goods stopped being imported into Europe, first disappearing from the interior and by the 7th century found only in a few cities such as Rome or Naples. By the end of the 7th century, under the impact of the Muslim conquests, African products were no longer found in Western Europe. The replacement of goods from long-range trade with local products was a trend throughout the old Roman lands that happened in the Early Middle Ages. This was especially marked in the lands that did not lie on the Mediterranean, such as northern Gaul or Britain. Non-local goods appearing in the archaeological record are usually luxury goods. In the northern parts of Europe, not only were the trade networks local, but the goods carried were simple, with little pottery or other complex products. Around the Mediterranean, pottery remained prevalent and appears to have been traded over medium-range networks, not just produced locally.\n\nThe various Germanic states in the west all had coinages that imitated existing Roman and Byzantine forms. Gold continued to be minted until the end of the 7th century, when it was replaced by silver coins. The basic Frankish silver coin was the denarius or denier, while the Anglo-Saxon version was called a penny. From these areas, the denier or penny spread throughout Europe during the centuries from 700 to 1000. Copper or bronze coins were not struck, nor were gold except in Southern Europe. No silver coins denominated in multiple units were minted.\n\nChristianity was a major unifying factor between Eastern and Western Europe before the Arab conquests, but the conquest of North Africa sundered maritime connections between those areas. Increasingly the Byzantine Church differed in language, practices, and liturgy from the Western Church. The Eastern Church used Greek instead of the Western Latin. Theological and political differences emerged, and by the early and middle 8th century issues such as iconoclasm, clerical marriage, and state control of the Church had widened to the extent that the cultural and religious differences were greater than the similarities. The formal break, known as the East–West Schism, came in 1054, when the papacy and the patriarchy of Constantinople clashed over papal supremacy and excommunicated each other, which led to the division of Christianity into two Churches—the Western branch became the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern branch the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nThe ecclesiastical structure of the Roman Empire survived the movements and invasions in the west mostly intact, but the papacy was little regarded, and few of the Western bishops looked to the bishop of Rome for religious or political leadership. Many of the popes prior to 750 were more concerned with Byzantine affairs and Eastern theological controversies. The register, or archived copies of the letters, of Pope Gregory the Great (pope 590–604) survived, and of those more than 850 letters, the vast majority were concerned with affairs in Italy or Constantinople. The only part of Western Europe where the papacy had influence was Britain, where Gregory had sent the Gregorian mission in 597 to convert the Anglo-Saxons to Christianity. Irish missionaries were most active in Western Europe between the 5th and the 7th centuries, going first to England and Scotland and then on to the continent. Under such monks as Columba (d. 597) and Columbanus (d. 615), they founded monasteries, taught in Latin and Greek, and authored secular and religious works.\n\nThe Early Middle Ages witnessed the rise of monasticism in the West. The shape of European monasticism was determined by traditions and ideas that originated with the Desert Fathers of Egypt and Syria. Most European monasteries were of the type that focuses on community experience of the spiritual life, called cenobitism, which was pioneered by Pachomius (d. 348) in the 4th century. Monastic ideals spread from Egypt to Western Europe in the 5th and 6th centuries through hagiographical literature such as the \"Life of Anthony\". Benedict of Nursia (d. 547) wrote the Benedictine Rule for Western monasticism during the 6th century, detailing the administrative and spiritual responsibilities of a community of monks led by an abbot. Monks and monasteries had a deep effect on the religious and political life of the Early Middle Ages, in various cases acting as land trusts for powerful families, centres of propaganda and royal support in newly conquered regions, and bases for missions and proselytisation. They were the main and sometimes only outposts of education and literacy in a region. Many of the surviving manuscripts of the Latin classics were copied in monasteries in the Early Middle Ages. Monks were also the authors of new works, including history, theology, and other subjects, written by authors such as Bede (d. 735), a native of northern England who wrote in the late 7th and early 8th centuries.\n\nThe Frankish kingdom in northern Gaul split into kingdoms called Austrasia, Neustria, and Burgundy during the 6th and 7th centuries, all of them ruled by the Merovingian dynasty, who were descended from Clovis. The 7th century was a tumultuous period of wars between Austrasia and Neustria. Such warfare was exploited by Pippin (d. 640), the Mayor of the Palace for Austrasia who became the power behind the Austrasian throne. Later members of his family inherited the office, acting as advisers and regents. One of his descendants, Charles Martel (d. 741), won the Battle of Poitiers in 732, halting the advance of Muslim armies across the Pyrenees. Great Britain was divided into small states dominated by the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia, Wessex, and East Anglia, which were descended from the Anglo-Saxon invaders. Smaller kingdoms in present-day Wales and Scotland were still under the control of the native Britons and Picts. Ireland was divided into even smaller political units, usually known as tribal kingdoms, under the control of kings. There were perhaps as many as 150 local kings in Ireland, of varying importance.\n\nThe Carolingian dynasty, as the successors to Charles Martel are known, officially took control of the kingdoms of Austrasia and Neustria in a coup of 753 led by (r. 752–768). A contemporary chronicle claims that Pippin sought, and gained, authority for this coup from Pope (pope 752–757). Pippin's takeover was reinforced with propaganda that portrayed the Merovingians as inept or cruel rulers, exalted the accomplishments of Charles Martel, and circulated stories of the family's great piety. At the time of his death in 768, Pippin left his kingdom in the hands of his two sons, Charles (r. 768–814) and Carloman (r. 768–771). When Carloman died of natural causes, Charles blocked the succession of Carloman's young son and installed himself as the king of the united Austrasia and Neustria. Charles, more often known as Charles the Great or Charlemagne, embarked upon a programme of systematic expansion in 774 that unified a large portion of Europe, eventually controlling modern-day France, northern Italy, and Saxony. In the wars that lasted beyond 800, he rewarded allies with war booty and command over parcels of land. In 774, Charlemagne conquered the Lombards, which freed the papacy from the fear of Lombard conquest and marked the beginnings of the Papal States.\n\nThe coronation of Charlemagne as emperor on Christmas Day 800 is regarded as a turning point in medieval history, marking a return of the Western Roman Empire, since the new emperor ruled over much of the area previously controlled by the Western emperors. It also marks a change in Charlemagne's relationship with the Byzantine Empire, as the assumption of the imperial title by the Carolingians asserted their equivalence to the Byzantine state. There were several differences between the newly established Carolingian Empire and both the older Western Roman Empire and the concurrent Byzantine Empire. The Frankish lands were rural in character, with only a few small cities. Most of the people were peasants settled on small farms. Little trade existed and much of that was with the British Isles and Scandinavia, in contrast to the older Roman Empire with its trading networks centred on the Mediterranean. The empire was administered by an itinerant court that travelled with the emperor, as well as approximately 300 imperial officials called counts, who administered the counties the empire had been divided into. Clergy and local bishops served as officials, as well as the imperial officials called \"missi dominici\", who served as roving inspectors and troubleshooters.\n\nCharlemagne's court in Aachen was the centre of the cultural revival sometimes referred to as the \"Carolingian Renaissance\". Literacy increased, as did development in the arts, architecture and jurisprudence, as well as liturgical and scriptural studies. The English monk Alcuin (d. 804) was invited to Aachen and brought the education available in the monasteries of Northumbria. Charlemagne's chancery—or writing office—made use of a new script today known as Carolingian minuscule, allowing a common writing style that advanced communication across much of Europe. Charlemagne sponsored changes in church liturgy, imposing the Roman form of church service on his domains, as well as the Gregorian chant in liturgical music for the churches. An important activity for scholars during this period was the copying, correcting, and dissemination of basic works on religious and secular topics, with the aim of encouraging learning. New works on religious topics and schoolbooks were also produced. Grammarians of the period modified the Latin language, changing it from the Classical Latin of the Roman Empire into a more flexible form to fit the needs of the Church and government. By the reign of Charlemagne, the language had so diverged from the classical that it was later called Medieval Latin.\n\nCharlemagne planned to continue the Frankish tradition of dividing his kingdom between all his heirs, but was unable to do so as only one son, Louis the Pious (r. 814–840), was still alive by 813. Just before Charlemagne died in 814, he crowned Louis as his successor. Louis's reign of 26 years was marked by numerous divisions of the empire among his sons and, after 829, civil wars between various alliances of father and sons over the control of various parts of the empire. Eventually, Louis recognised his eldest son (d. 855) as emperor and gave him Italy. Louis divided the rest of the empire between Lothair and Charles the Bald (d. 877), his youngest son. Lothair took East Francia, comprising both banks of the Rhine and eastwards, leaving Charles West Francia with the empire to the west of the Rhineland and the Alps. Louis the German (d. 876), the middle child, who had been rebellious to the last, was allowed to keep Bavaria under the suzerainty of his elder brother. The division was disputed. of Aquitaine (d. after 864), the emperor's grandson, rebelled in a contest for Aquitaine, while Louis the German tried to annex all of East Francia. Louis the Pious died in 840, with the empire still in chaos.\n\nA three-year civil war followed his death. By the Treaty of Verdun (843), a kingdom between the Rhine and Rhone rivers was created for Lothair to go with his lands in Italy, and his imperial title was recognised. Louis the German was in control of Bavaria and the eastern lands in modern-day Germany. Charles the Bald received the western Frankish lands, comprising most of modern-day France. Charlemagne's grandsons and great-grandsons divided their kingdoms between their descendants, eventually causing all internal cohesion to be lost. In 987 the Carolingian dynasty was replaced in the western lands, with the crowning of Hugh Capet (r. 987–996) as king. In the eastern lands the dynasty had died out earlier, in 911, with the death of Louis the Child, and the selection of the unrelated Conrad I (r. 911–918) as king.\n\nThe breakup of the Carolingian Empire was accompanied by invasions, migrations, and raids by external foes. The Atlantic and northern shores were harassed by the Vikings, who also raided the British Isles and settled there as well as in Iceland. In 911, the Viking chieftain Rollo (d. c. 931) received permission from the Frankish King Charles the Simple (r. 898–922) to settle in what became Normandy. The eastern parts of the Frankish kingdoms, especially Germany and Italy, were under continual Magyar assault until the invader's defeat at the Battle of Lechfeld in 955. The breakup of the Abbasid dynasty meant that the Islamic world fragmented into smaller political states, some of which began expanding into Italy and Sicily, as well as over the Pyrenees into the southern parts of the Frankish kingdoms.\n\nEfforts by local kings to fight the invaders led to the formation of new political entities. In Anglo-Saxon England, King Alfred the Great (r. 871–899) came to an agreement with the Viking invaders in the late 9th century, resulting in Danish settlements in Northumbria, Mercia, and parts of East Anglia. By the middle of the 10th century, Alfred's successors had conquered Northumbria, and restored English control over most of the southern part of Great Britain. In northern Britain, Kenneth MacAlpin (d. c. 860) united the Picts and the Scots into the Kingdom of Alba. In the early 10th century, the Ottonian dynasty had established itself in Germany, and was engaged in driving back the Magyars. Its efforts culminated in the coronation in 962 of (r. 936–973) as Holy Roman Emperor. In 972, he secured recognition of his title by the Byzantine Empire, which he sealed with the marriage of his son Otto II (r. 967–983) to Theophanu (d. 991), daughter of an earlier Byzantine Emperor Romanos II (r. 959–963). By the late 10th century Italy had been drawn into the Ottonian sphere after a period of instability; Otto III (r. 996–1002) spent much of his later reign in the kingdom. The western Frankish kingdom was more fragmented, and although kings remained nominally in charge, much of the political power devolved to the local lords.\n\nMissionary efforts to Scandinavia during the 9th and 10th centuries helped strengthen the growth of kingdoms such as Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, which gained power and territory. Some kings converted to Christianity, although not all by 1000. Scandinavians also expanded and colonised throughout Europe. Besides the settlements in Ireland, England, and Normandy, further settlement took place in what became Russia and in Iceland. Swedish traders and raiders ranged down the rivers of the Russian steppe, and even attempted to seize Constantinople in 860 and 907. Christian Spain, initially driven into a small section of the peninsula in the north, expanded slowly south during the 9th and 10th centuries, establishing the kingdoms of Asturias and León.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, Byzantium revived its fortunes under Emperor Basil I (r. 867–886) and his successors Leo VI (r. 886–912) and Constantine VII (r. 913–959), members of the Macedonian dynasty. Commerce revived and the emperors oversaw the extension of a uniform administration to all the provinces. The military was reorganised, which allowed the emperors John I (r. 969–976) and Basil II (r. 976–1025) to expand the frontiers of the empire on all fronts. The imperial court was the centre of a revival of classical learning, a process known as the Macedonian Renaissance. Writers such as John Geometres (fl. early 10th century) composed new hymns, poems, and other works. Missionary efforts by both Eastern and Western clergy resulted in the conversion of the Moravians, Bulgars, Bohemians, Poles, Magyars, and Slavic inhabitants of the Kievan Rus'. These conversions contributed to the founding of political states in the lands of those peoples—the states of Moravia, Bulgaria, Bohemia, Poland, Hungary, and the Kievan Rus'. Bulgaria, which was founded around 680, at its height reached from Budapest to the Black Sea and from the Dnieper River in modern Ukraine to the Adriatic Sea. By 1018, the last Bulgarian nobles had surrendered to the Byzantine Empire.\n\nFew large stone buildings were constructed between the Constantinian basilicas of the 4th century and the 8th century, although many smaller ones were built during the 6th and 7th centuries. By the beginning of the 8th century, the Carolingian Empire revived the basilica form of architecture. One feature of the basilica is the use of a transept, or the \"arms\" of a cross-shaped building that are perpendicular to the long nave. Other new features of religious architecture include the crossing tower and a monumental entrance to the church, usually at the west end of the building.\n\nCarolingian art was produced for a small group of figures around the court, and the monasteries and churches they supported. It was dominated by efforts to regain the dignity and classicism of imperial Roman and Byzantine art, but was also influenced by the Insular art of the British Isles. Insular art integrated the energy of Irish Celtic and Anglo-Saxon Germanic styles of ornament with Mediterranean forms such as the book, and established many characteristics of art for the rest of the medieval period. Surviving religious works from the Early Middle Ages are mostly illuminated manuscripts and carved ivories, originally made for metalwork that has since been melted down. Objects in precious metals were the most prestigious form of art, but almost all are lost except for a few crosses such as the Cross of Lothair, several reliquaries, and finds such as the Anglo-Saxon burial at Sutton Hoo and the hoards of Gourdon from Merovingian France, Guarrazar from Visigothic Spain and Nagyszentmiklós near Byzantine territory. There are survivals from the large brooches in fibula or penannular form that were a key piece of personal adornment for elites, including the Irish Tara Brooch. Highly decorated books were mostly Gospel Books and these have survived in larger numbers, including the Insular Book of Kells, the Book of Lindisfarne, and the imperial Codex Aureus of St. Emmeram, which is one of the few to retain its \"treasure binding\" of gold encrusted with jewels. Charlemagne's court seems to have been responsible for the acceptance of figurative monumental sculpture in Christian art, and by the end of the period near life-sized figures such as the Gero Cross were common in important churches.\n\nDuring the later Roman Empire, the principal military developments were attempts to create an effective cavalry force as well as the continued development of highly specialised types of troops. The creation of heavily armoured cataphract-type soldiers as cavalry was an important feature of the 5th-century Roman military. The various invading tribes had differing emphases on types of soldiers—ranging from the primarily infantry Anglo-Saxon invaders of Britain to the Vandals and Visigoths, who had a high proportion of cavalry in their armies. During the early invasion period, the stirrup had not been introduced into warfare, which limited the usefulness of cavalry as shock troops because it was not possible to put the full force of the horse and rider behind blows struck by the rider. The greatest change in military affairs during the invasion period was the adoption of the Hunnic composite bow in place of the earlier, and weaker, Scythian composite bow. Another development was the increasing use of longswords and the progressive replacement of scale armour by mail armour and lamellar armour.\n\nThe importance of infantry and light cavalry began to decline during the early Carolingian period, with a growing dominance of elite heavy cavalry. The use of militia-type levies of the free population declined over the Carolingian period. Although much of the Carolingian armies were mounted, a large proportion during the early period appear to have been mounted infantry, rather than true cavalry. One exception was Anglo-Saxon England, where the armies were still composed of regional levies, known as the \"fyrd\", which were led by the local elites. In military technology, one of the main changes was the return of the crossbow, which had been known in Roman times and reappeared as a military weapon during the last part of the Early Middle Ages. Another change was the introduction of the stirrup, which increased the effectiveness of cavalry as shock troops. A technological advance that had implications beyond the military was the horseshoe, which allowed horses to be used in rocky terrain.\n\nThe High Middle Ages was a period of tremendous expansion of population. The estimated population of Europe grew from 35 to 80 million between 1000 and 1347, although the exact causes remain unclear: improved agricultural techniques, the decline of slaveholding, a more clement climate and the lack of invasion have all been suggested. As much as 90 per cent of the European population remained rural peasants. Many were no longer settled in isolated farms but had gathered into small communities, usually known as manors or villages. These peasants were often subject to noble overlords and owed them rents and other services, in a system known as manorialism. There remained a few free peasants throughout this period and beyond, with more of them in the regions of Southern Europe than in the north. The practice of assarting, or bringing new lands into production by offering incentives to the peasants who settled them, also contributed to the expansion of population.\n\nThe Open-field system of agriculture was commonly practiced in most of Europe, especially in \"northwestern and central Europe.\" Open-field agricultural communities had three basic characteristics: individual peasant holdings in the form of strips of land were scattered among the different fields belonging to the manor; crops were rotated from year to year to preserve soil fertility; and common land was used for grazing livestock and other purposes.\n\nOther sections of society included the nobility, clergy, and townsmen. Nobles, both the titled nobility and simple knights, exploited the manors and the peasants, although they did not own lands outright but were granted rights to the income from a manor or other lands by an overlord through the system of feudalism. During the 11th and 12th centuries, these lands, or fiefs, came to be considered hereditary, and in most areas they were no longer divisible between all the heirs as had been the case in the early medieval period. Instead, most fiefs and lands went to the eldest son. The dominance of the nobility was built upon its control of the land, its military service as heavy cavalry, control of castles, and various immunities from taxes or other impositions. Castles, initially in wood but later in stone, began to be constructed in the 9th and 10th centuries in response to the disorder of the time, and provided protection from invaders as well as allowing lords defence from rivals. Control of castles allowed the nobles to defy kings or other overlords. Nobles were stratified; kings and the highest-ranking nobility controlled large numbers of commoners and large tracts of land, as well as other nobles. Beneath them, lesser nobles had authority over smaller areas of land and fewer people. Knights were the lowest level of nobility; they controlled but did not own land, and had to serve other nobles.\n\nThe clergy was divided into two types: the secular clergy, who lived out in the world, and the regular clergy, who lived under a religious rule and were usually monks. Throughout the period monks remained a very small proportion of the population, usually less than one percent. Most of the regular clergy were drawn from the nobility, the same social class that served as the recruiting ground for the upper levels of the secular clergy. The local parish priests were often drawn from the peasant class. Townsmen were in a somewhat unusual position, as they did not fit into the traditional three-fold division of society into nobles, clergy, and peasants. During the 12th and 13th centuries, the ranks of the townsmen expanded greatly as existing towns grew and new population centres were founded. But throughout the Middle Ages the population of the towns probably never exceeded 10 percent of the total population.\n\nJews also spread across Europe during the period. Communities were established in Germany and England in the 11th and 12th centuries, but Spanish Jews, long settled in Spain under the Muslims, came under Christian rule and increasing pressure to convert to Christianity. Most Jews were confined to the cities, as they were not allowed to own land or be peasants. Besides the Jews, there were other non-Christians on the edges of Europe—pagan Slavs in Eastern Europe and Muslims in Southern Europe.\n\nWomen in the Middle Ages were officially required to be subordinate to some male, whether their father, husband, or other kinsman. Widows, who were often allowed much control over their own lives, were still restricted legally. Women's work generally consisted of household or other domestically inclined tasks. Peasant women were usually responsible for taking care of the household, child-care, as well as gardening and animal husbandry near the house. They could supplement the household income by spinning or brewing at home. At harvest-time, they were also expected to help with field-work. Townswomen, like peasant women, were responsible for the household, and could also engage in trade. What trades were open to women varied by country and period. Noblewomen were responsible for running a household, and could occasionally be expected to handle estates in the absence of male relatives, but they were usually restricted from participation in military or government affairs. The only role open to women in the Church was that of nuns, as they were unable to become priests.\n\nIn central and northern Italy and in Flanders, the rise of towns that were to a degree self-governing stimulated economic growth and created an environment for new types of trade associations. Commercial cities on the shores of the Baltic entered into agreements known as the Hanseatic League, and the Italian Maritime republics such as Venice, Genoa, and Pisa expanded their trade throughout the Mediterranean. Great trading fairs were established and flourished in northern France during the period, allowing Italian and German merchants to trade with each other as well as local merchants. In the late 13th century new land and sea routes to the Far East were pioneered, famously described in \"The Travels of Marco Polo\" written by one of the traders, Marco Polo (d. 1324). Besides new trading opportunities, agricultural and technological improvements enabled an increase in crop yields, which in turn allowed the trade networks to expand. Rising trade brought new methods of dealing with money, and gold coinage was again minted in Europe, first in Italy and later in France and other countries. New forms of commercial contracts emerged, allowing risk to be shared among merchants. Accounting methods improved, partly through the use of double-entry bookkeeping; letters of credit also appeared, allowing easy transmission of money.\n\nThe High Middle Ages was the formative period in the history of the modern Western state. Kings in France, England, and Spain consolidated their power, and set up lasting governing institutions. New kingdoms such as Hungary and Poland, after their conversion to Christianity, became Central European powers. The Magyars settled Hungary around 900 under King Árpád (d. c. 907) after a series of invasions in the 9th century. The papacy, long attached to an ideology of independence from secular kings, first asserted its claim to temporal authority over the entire Christian world; the Papal Monarchy reached its apogee in the early 13th century under the pontificate of (pope 1198–1216). Northern Crusades and the advance of Christian kingdoms and military orders into previously pagan regions in the Baltic and Finnic north-east brought the forced assimilation of numerous native peoples into European culture.\n\nDuring the early High Middle Ages, Germany was ruled by the Ottonian dynasty, which struggled to control the powerful dukes ruling over territorial duchies tracing back to the Migration period. In 1024, they were replaced by the Salian dynasty, who famously clashed with the papacy under Emperor (r. 1084–1105) over Church appointments as part of the Investiture Controversy. His successors continued to struggle against the papacy as well as the German nobility. A period of instability followed the death of Emperor (r. 1111–25), who died without heirs, until Barbarossa (r. 1155–90) took the imperial throne. Although he ruled effectively, the basic problems remained, and his successors continued to struggle into the 13th century. Barbarossa's grandson Frederick II (r. 1220–1250), who was also heir to the throne of Sicily through his mother, clashed repeatedly with the papacy. His court was famous for its scholars and he was often accused of heresy. He and his successors faced many difficulties, including the invasion of the Mongols into Europe in the mid-13th century. Mongols first shattered the Kievan Rus' principalities and then invaded Eastern Europe in 1241, 1259, and 1287.\n\nUnder the Capetian dynasty the French monarchy slowly began to expand its authority over the nobility, growing out of the Île-de-France to exert control over more of the country in the 11th and 12th centuries. They faced a powerful rival in the Dukes of Normandy, who in 1066 under William the Conqueror (duke 1035–1087), conquered England (r. 1066–87) and created a cross-channel empire that lasted, in various forms, throughout the rest of the Middle Ages. Normans also settled in Sicily and southern Italy, when Robert Guiscard (d. 1085) landed there in 1059 and established a duchy that later became the Kingdom of Sicily. Under the Angevin dynasty of (r. 1154–89) and his son Richard I (r. 1189–99), the kings of England ruled over England and large areas of France, brought to the family by Henry II's marriage to Eleanor of Aquitaine (d. 1204), heiress to much of southern France. Richard's younger brother John (r. 1199–1216) lost Normandy and the rest of the northern French possessions in 1204 to the French King Philip II Augustus (r. 1180–1223). This led to dissension among the English nobility, while John's financial exactions to pay for his unsuccessful attempts to regain Normandy led in 1215 to \"Magna Carta\", a charter that confirmed the rights and privileges of free men in England. Under (r. 1216–72), John's son, further concessions were made to the nobility, and royal power was diminished. The French monarchy continued to make gains against the nobility during the late 12th and 13th centuries, bringing more territories within the kingdom under the king's personal rule and centralising the royal administration. Under Louis IX (r. 1226–70), royal prestige rose to new heights as Louis served as a mediator for most of Europe.\n\nIn Iberia, the Christian states, which had been confined to the north-western part of the peninsula, began to push back against the Islamic states in the south, a period known as the \"Reconquista\". By about 1150, the Christian north had coalesced into the five major kingdoms of León, Castile, Aragon, Navarre, and Portugal. Southern Iberia remained under control of Islamic states, initially under the Caliphate of Córdoba, which broke up in 1031 into a shifting number of petty states known as \"taifas\", who fought with the Christians until the Almohad Caliphate re-established centralised rule over Southern Iberia in the 1170s. Christian forces advanced again in the early 13th century, culminating in the capture of Seville in 1248.\n\nIn the 11th century, the Seljuk Turks took over much of the Middle East, occupying Persia during the 1040s, Armenia in the 1060s, and Jerusalem in 1070. In 1071, the Turkish army defeated the Byzantine army at the Battle of Manzikert and captured the Byzantine Emperor Romanus IV (r. 1068–71). The Turks were then free to invade Asia Minor, which dealt a dangerous blow to the Byzantine Empire by seizing a large part of its population and its economic heartland. Although the Byzantines regrouped and recovered somewhat, they never fully regained Asia Minor and were often on the defensive. The Turks also had difficulties, losing control of Jerusalem to the Fatimids of Egypt and suffering from a series of internal civil wars. The Byzantines also faced a revived Bulgaria, which in the late 12th and 13th centuries spread throughout the Balkans.\n\nThe crusades were intended to seize Jerusalem from Muslim control. The First Crusade was proclaimed by Pope Urban II (pope 1088–99) at the Council of Clermont in 1095 in response to a request from the Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos (r. 1081–1118) for aid against further Muslim advances. Urban promised indulgence to anyone who took part. Tens of thousands of people from all levels of society mobilised across Europe and captured Jerusalem in 1099. One feature of the crusades was the pogroms against local Jews that often took place as the crusaders left their countries for the East. These were especially brutal during the First Crusade, when the Jewish communities in Cologne, Mainz, and Worms were destroyed, as well as other communities in cities between the rivers Seine and the Rhine. Another outgrowth of the crusades was the foundation of a new type of monastic order, the military orders of the Templars and Hospitallers, which fused monastic life with military service.\n\nThe crusaders consolidated their conquests into crusader states. During the 12th and 13th centuries, there were a series of conflicts between them and the surrounding Islamic states. Appeals from the crusader states to the papacy led to further crusades, such as the Third Crusade, called to try to regain Jerusalem, which had been captured by Saladin (d. 1193) in 1187. In 1203, the Fourth Crusade was diverted from the Holy Land to Constantinople, and captured the city in 1204, setting up a Latin Empire of Constantinople and greatly weakening the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantines recaptured the city in 1261, but never regained their former strength. By 1291 all the crusader states had been captured or forced from the mainland, although a titular Kingdom of Jerusalem survived on the island of Cyprus for several years afterwards.\n\nPopes called for crusades to take place elsewhere besides the Holy Land: in Spain, southern France, and along the Baltic. The Spanish crusades became fused with the \"Reconquista\" of Spain from the Muslims. Although the Templars and Hospitallers took part in the Spanish crusades, similar Spanish military religious orders were founded, most of which had become part of the two main orders of Calatrava and Santiago by the beginning of the 12th century. Northern Europe also remained outside Christian influence until the 11th century or later, and became a crusading venue as part of the Northern Crusades of the 12th to 14th centuries. These crusades also spawned a military order, the Order of the Sword Brothers. Another order, the Teutonic Knights, although founded in the crusader states, focused much of its activity in the Baltic after 1225, and in 1309 moved its headquarters to Marienburg in Prussia.\n\nDuring the 11th century, developments in philosophy and theology led to increased intellectual activity. There was debate between the realists and the nominalists over the concept of \"universals\". Philosophical discourse was stimulated by the rediscovery of Aristotle and his emphasis on empiricism and rationalism. Scholars such as Peter Abelard (d. 1142) and Peter Lombard (d. 1164) introduced Aristotelian logic into theology. In the late 11th and early 12th centuries cathedral schools spread throughout Western Europe, signalling the shift of learning from monasteries to cathedrals and towns. Cathedral schools were in turn replaced by the universities established in major European cities. Philosophy and theology fused in scholasticism, an attempt by 12th- and 13th-century scholars to reconcile authoritative texts, most notably Aristotle and the Bible. This movement tried to employ a systemic approach to truth and reason and culminated in the thought of Thomas Aquinas (d. 1274), who wrote the \"Summa Theologica\", or \"Summary of Theology\".\n\nChivalry and the ethos of courtly love developed in royal and noble courts. This culture was expressed in the vernacular languages rather than Latin, and comprised poems, stories, legends, and popular songs spread by troubadours, or wandering minstrels. Often the stories were written down in the \"chansons de geste\", or \"songs of great deeds\", such as \"The Song of Roland\" or \"The Song of Hildebrand\". Secular and religious histories were also produced. Geoffrey of Monmouth (d. c. 1155) composed his \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", a collection of stories and legends about Arthur. Other works were more clearly history, such as Otto von Freising's (d. 1158) \"Gesta Friderici Imperatoris\" detailing the deeds of Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, or William of Malmesbury's (d. c. 1143) \"Gesta Regum\" on the kings of England.\n\nLegal studies advanced during the 12th century. Both secular law and canon law, or ecclesiastical law, were studied in the High Middle Ages. Secular law, or Roman law, was advanced greatly by the discovery of the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\" in the 11th century, and by 1100 Roman law was being taught at Bologna. This led to the recording and standardisation of legal codes throughout Western Europe. Canon law was also studied, and around 1140 a monk named Gratian (fl. 12th century), a teacher at Bologna, wrote what became the standard text of canon law—the \"Decretum\".\n\nAmong the results of the Greek and Islamic influence on this period in European history was the replacement of Roman numerals with the decimal positional number system and the invention of algebra, which allowed more advanced mathematics. Astronomy advanced following the translation of Ptolemy's \"Almagest\" from Greek into Latin in the late 12th century. Medicine was also studied, especially in southern Italy, where Islamic medicine influenced the school at Salerno.\n\nIn the 12th and 13th centuries, Europe experienced economic growth and innovations in methods of production. Major technological advances included the invention of the windmill, the first mechanical clocks, the manufacture of distilled spirits, and the use of the astrolabe. Concave spectacles were invented around 1286 by an unknown Italian artisan, probably working in or near Pisa.\n\nThe development of a three-field rotation system for planting crops increased the usage of land from one half in use each year under the old two-field system to two-thirds under the new system, with a consequent increase in production. The development of the heavy plough allowed heavier soils to be farmed more efficiently, aided by the spread of the horse collar, which led to the use of draught horses in place of oxen. Horses are faster than oxen and require less pasture, factors that aided the implementation of the three-field system.\n\nThe construction of cathedrals and castles advanced building technology, leading to the development of large stone buildings. Ancillary structures included new town halls, houses, bridges, and tithe barns. Shipbuilding improved with the use of the rib and plank method rather than the old Roman system of mortise and tenon. Other improvements to ships included the use of lateen sails and the stern-post rudder, both of which increased the speed at which ships could be sailed.\n\nIn military affairs, the use of infantry with specialised roles increased. Along with the still-dominant heavy cavalry, armies often included mounted and infantry crossbowmen, as well as sappers and engineers. Crossbows, which had been known in Late Antiquity, increased in use partly because of the increase in siege warfare in the 10th and 11th centuries. The increasing use of crossbows during the 12th and 13th centuries led to the use of closed-face helmets, heavy body armour, as well as horse armour. Gunpowder was known in Europe by the mid-13th century with a recorded use in European warfare by the English against the Scots in 1304, although it was merely used as an explosive and not as a weapon. Cannon were being used for sieges in the 1320s, and hand-held guns were in use by the 1360s.\n\nIn the 10th century the establishment of churches and monasteries led to the development of stone architecture that elaborated vernacular Roman forms, from which the term \"Romanesque\" is derived. Where available, Roman brick and stone buildings were recycled for their materials. From the tentative beginnings known as the First Romanesque, the style flourished and spread across Europe in a remarkably homogeneous form. Just before 1000 there was a great wave of building stone churches all over Europe. Romanesque buildings have massive stone walls, openings topped by semi-circular arches, small windows, and, particularly in France, arched stone vaults. The large portal with coloured sculpture in high relief became a central feature of façades, especially in France, and the capitals of columns were often carved with narrative scenes of imaginative monsters and animals. According to art historian C. R. Dodwell, \"virtually all the churches in the West were decorated with wall-paintings\", of which few survive. Simultaneous with the development in church architecture, the distinctive European form of the castle was developed and became crucial to politics and warfare.\n\nRomanesque art, especially metalwork, was at its most sophisticated in Mosan art, in which distinct artistic personalities including Nicholas of Verdun (d. 1205) become apparent, and an almost classical style is seen in works such as a font at Liège, contrasting with the writhing animals of the exactly contemporary Gloucester Candlestick. Large illuminated bibles and psalters were the typical forms of luxury manuscripts, and wall-painting flourished in churches, often following a scheme with a \"Last Judgement\" on the west wall, a Christ in Majesty at the east end, and narrative biblical scenes down the nave, or in the best surviving example, at Saint-Savin-sur-Gartempe, on the barrel-vaulted roof.\n\nFrom the early 12th century, French builders developed the Gothic style, marked by the use of rib vaults, pointed arches, flying buttresses, and large stained glass windows. It was used mainly in churches and cathedrals and continued in use until the 16th century in much of Europe. Classic examples of Gothic architecture include Chartres Cathedral and Reims Cathedral in France as well as Salisbury Cathedral in England. Stained glass became a crucial element in the design of churches, which continued to use extensive wall-paintings, now almost all lost.\n\nDuring this period the practice of manuscript illumination gradually passed from monasteries to lay workshops, so that according to Janetta Benton \"by 1300 most monks bought their books in shops\", and the book of hours developed as a form of devotional book for lay-people. Metalwork continued to be the most prestigious form of art, with Limoges enamel a popular and relatively affordable option for objects such as reliquaries and crosses. In Italy the innovations of Cimabue and Duccio, followed by the Trecento master Giotto (d. 1337), greatly increased the sophistication and status of panel painting and fresco. Increasing prosperity during the 12th century resulted in greater production of secular art; many carved ivory objects such as gaming-pieces, combs, and small religious figures have survived.\n\nMonastic reform became an important issue during the 11th century, as elites began to worry that monks were not adhering to the rules binding them to a strictly religious life. Cluny Abbey, founded in the Mâcon region of France in 909, was established as part of the Cluniac Reforms, a larger movement of monastic reform in response to this fear. Cluny quickly established a reputation for austerity and rigour. It sought to maintain a high quality of spiritual life by placing itself under the protection of the papacy and by electing its own abbot without interference from laymen, thus maintaining economic and political independence from local lords.\n\nMonastic reform inspired change in the secular Church. The ideals upon which it was based were brought to the papacy by Pope Leo IX (pope 1049–1054), and provided the ideology of clerical independence that led to the Investiture Controversy in the late 11th century. This involved Pope Gregory VII (pope 1073–85) and Emperor Henry IV, who initially clashed over episcopal appointments, a dispute that turned into a battle over the ideas of investiture, clerical marriage, and simony. The emperor saw the protection of the Church as one of his responsibilities as well as wanting to preserve the right to appoint his own choices as bishops within his lands, but the papacy insisted on the Church's independence from secular lords. These issues remained unresolved after the compromise of 1122 known as the Concordat of Worms. The dispute represents a significant stage in the creation of a papal monarchy separate from and equal to lay authorities. It also had the permanent consequence of empowering German princes at the expense of the German emperors.\n\nThe High Middle Ages was a period of great religious movements. Besides the Crusades and monastic reforms, people sought to participate in new forms of religious life. New monastic orders were founded, including the Carthusians and the Cistercians. The latter especially expanded rapidly in their early years under the guidance of Bernard of Clairvaux (d. 1153). These new orders were formed in response to the feeling of the laity that Benedictine monasticism no longer met the needs of the laymen, who along with those wishing to enter the religious life wanted a return to the simpler hermetical monasticism of early Christianity, or to live an Apostolic life. Religious pilgrimages were also encouraged. Old pilgrimage sites such as Rome, Jerusalem, and Compostela received increasing numbers of visitors, and new sites such as Monte Gargano and Bari rose to prominence.\n\nIn the 13th century mendicant orders—the Franciscans and the Dominicans—who swore vows of poverty and earned their living by begging, were approved by the papacy. Religious groups such as the Waldensians and the Humiliati also attempted to return to the life of early Christianity in the middle 12th and early 13th centuries, but they were condemned as heretical by the papacy. Others joined the Cathars, another heretical movement condemned by the papacy. In 1209, a crusade was preached against the Cathars, the Albigensian Crusade, which in combination with the medieval Inquisition, eliminated them.\n\nThe first years of the 14th century were marked by famines, culminating in the Great Famine of 1315–17. The causes of the Great Famine included the slow transition from the Medieval Warm Period to the Little Ice Age, which left the population vulnerable when bad weather caused crop failures. The years 1313–14 and 1317–21 were excessively rainy throughout Europe, resulting in widespread crop failures. The climate change—which resulted in a declining average annual temperature for Europe during the 14th century—was accompanied by an economic downturn.\n\nThese troubles were followed in 1347 by the Black Death, a pandemic that spread throughout Europe during the following three years. The death toll was probably about 35 million people in Europe, about one-third of the population. Towns were especially hard-hit because of their crowded conditions. Large areas of land were left sparsely inhabited, and in some places fields were left unworked. Wages rose as landlords sought to entice the reduced number of available workers to their fields. Further problems were lower rents and lower demand for food, both of which cut into agricultural income. Urban workers also felt that they had a right to greater earnings, and popular uprisings broke out across Europe. Among the uprisings were the \"jacquerie\" in France, the Peasants' Revolt in England, and revolts in the cities of Florence in Italy and Ghent and Bruges in Flanders. The trauma of the plague led to an increased piety throughout Europe, manifested by the foundation of new charities, the self-mortification of the flagellants, and the scapegoating of Jews. Conditions were further unsettled by the return of the plague throughout the rest of the 14th century; it continued to strike Europe periodically during the rest of the Middle Ages.\n\nSociety throughout Europe was disturbed by the dislocations caused by the Black Death. Lands that had been marginally productive were abandoned, as the survivors were able to acquire more fertile areas. Although serfdom declined in Western Europe it became more common in Eastern Europe, as landlords imposed it on those of their tenants who had previously been free. Most peasants in Western Europe managed to change the work they had previously owed to their landlords into cash rents. The percentage of serfs amongst the peasantry declined from a high of 90 to closer to 50 percent by the end of the period. Landlords also became more conscious of common interests with other landholders, and they joined together to extort privileges from their governments. Partly at the urging of landlords, governments attempted to legislate a return to the economic conditions that existed before the Black Death. Non-clergy became increasingly literate, and urban populations began to imitate the nobility's interest in chivalry.\n\nJewish communities were expelled from England in 1290 and from France in 1306. Although some were allowed back into France, most were not, and many Jews emigrated eastwards, and Hungary. The Jews were expelled from Spain in 1492, and dispersed to Turkey, France, Italy, and Holland. The rise of banking in Italy during the 13th century continued throughout the 14th century, fuelled partly by the increasing warfare of the period and the needs of the papacy to move money between kingdoms. Many banking firms loaned money to royalty, at great risk, as some were bankrupted when kings defaulted on their loans.\n\nStrong, royalty-based nation states rose throughout Europe in the Late Middle Ages, particularly in England, France, and the Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula: Aragon, Castile, and Portugal. The long conflicts of the period strengthened royal control over their kingdoms and were extremely hard on the peasantry. Kings profited from warfare that extended royal legislation and increased the lands they directly controlled. Paying for the wars required that methods of taxation become more effective and efficient, and the rate of taxation often increased. The requirement to obtain the consent of taxpayers allowed representative bodies such as the English Parliament and the French Estates General to gain power and authority.\n\nThroughout the 14th century, French kings sought to expand their influence at the expense of the territorial holdings of the nobility. They ran into difficulties when attempting to confiscate the holdings of the English kings in southern France, leading to the Hundred Years' War, waged from 1337 to 1453. Early in the war the English under Edward III (r. 1327–77) and his son Edward, the Black Prince (d. 1376), won the battles of Crécy and Poitiers, captured the city of Calais, and won control of much of France. The resulting stresses almost caused the disintegration of the French kingdom during the early years of the war. In the early 15th century, France again came close to dissolving, but in the late 1420s the military successes of Joan of Arc (d. 1431) led to the victory of the French and the capture of the last English possessions in southern France in 1453. The price was high, as the population of France at the end of the Wars was likely half what it had been at the start of the conflict. Conversely, the Wars had a positive effect on English national identity, doing much to fuse the various local identities into a national English ideal. The conflict with France also helped create a national culture in England separate from French culture, which had previously been the dominant influence. The dominance of the English longbow began during early stages of the Hundred Years' War, and cannon appeared on the battlefield at Crécy in 1346.\n\nIn modern-day Germany, the Holy Roman Empire continued to rule, but the elective nature of the imperial crown meant there was no enduring dynasty around which a strong state could form. Further east, the kingdoms of Poland, Hungary, and Bohemia grew powerful. In Iberia, the Christian kingdoms continued to gain land from the Muslim kingdoms of the peninsula; Portugal concentrated on expanding overseas during the 15th century, while the other kingdoms were riven by difficulties over royal succession and other concerns. After losing the Hundred Years' War, England went on to suffer a long civil war known as the Wars of the Roses, which lasted into the 1490s and only ended when Henry Tudor (r. 1485–1509 as Henry VII) became king and consolidated power with his victory over Richard III (r. 1483–85) at Bosworth in 1485. In Scandinavia, Margaret I of Denmark (r. in Denmark 1387–1412) consolidated Norway, Denmark, and Sweden in the Union of Kalmar, which continued until 1523. The major power around the Baltic Sea was the Hanseatic League, a commercial confederation of city-states that traded from Western Europe to Russia. Scotland emerged from English domination under Robert the Bruce (r. 1306–29), who secured papal recognition of his kingship in 1328.\n\nAlthough the Palaeologi emperors recaptured Constantinople from the Western Europeans in 1261, they were never able to regain control of much of the former imperial lands. They usually controlled only a small section of the Balkan Peninsula near Constantinople, the city itself, and some coastal lands on the Black Sea and around the Aegean Sea. The former Byzantine lands in the Balkans were divided between the new Kingdom of Serbia, the Second Bulgarian Empire and the city-state of Venice. The power of the Byzantine emperors was threatened by a new Turkish tribe, the Ottomans, who established themselves in Anatolia in the 13th century and steadily expanded throughout the 14th century. The Ottomans expanded into Europe, reducing Bulgaria to a vassal state by 1366 and taking over Serbia after its defeat at the Battle of Kosovo in 1389. Western Europeans rallied to the plight of the Christians in the Balkans and declared a new crusade in 1396; a great army was sent to the Balkans, where it was defeated at the Battle of Nicopolis. Constantinople was finally captured by the Ottomans in 1453.\n\nDuring the tumultuous 14th century, disputes within the leadership of the Church led to the Avignon Papacy of 1309–76, also called the \"Babylonian Captivity of the Papacy\" (a reference to the Babylonian captivity of the Jews), and then to the Great Schism, lasting from 1378 to 1418, when there were two and later three rival popes, each supported by several states. Ecclesiastical officials convened at the Council of Constance in 1414, and in the following year the council deposed one of the rival popes, leaving only two claimants. Further depositions followed, and in November 1417 the council elected Martin V (pope 1417–31) as pope.\n\nBesides the schism, the Western Church was riven by theological controversies, some of which turned into heresies. John Wycliffe (d. 1384), an English theologian, was condemned as a heretic in 1415 for teaching that the laity should have access to the text of the Bible as well as for holding views on the Eucharist that were contrary to Church doctrine. Wycliffe's teachings influenced two of the major heretical movements of the later Middle Ages: Lollardy in England and Hussitism in Bohemia. The Bohemian movement initiated with the teaching of Jan Hus, who was burned at the stake in 1415 after being condemned as a heretic by the Council of Constance. The Hussite Church, although the target of a crusade, survived beyond the Middle Ages. Other heresies were manufactured, such as the accusations against the Knights Templar that resulted in their suppression in 1312 and the division of their great wealth between the French King Philip IV (r. 1285–1314) and the Hospitallers.\n\nThe papacy further refined the practice in the Mass in the Late Middle Ages, holding that the clergy alone was allowed to partake of the wine in the Eucharist. This further distanced the secular laity from the clergy. The laity continued the practices of pilgrimages, veneration of relics, and belief in the power of the Devil. Mystics such as Meister Eckhart (d. 1327) and Thomas à Kempis (d. 1471) wrote works that taught the laity to focus on their inner spiritual life, which laid the groundwork for the Protestant Reformation. Besides mysticism, belief in witches and witchcraft became widespread, and by the late 15th century the Church had begun to lend credence to populist fears of witchcraft with its condemnation of witches in 1484 and the publication in 1486 of the \"Malleus Maleficarum\", the most popular handbook for witch-hunters.\n\nDuring the Later Middle Ages, theologians such as John Duns Scotus (d. 1308) and William of Ockham (d. c. 1348), led a reaction against intellectualist scholasticism, objecting to the application of reason to faith. Their efforts undermined the prevailing Platonic idea of universals. Ockham's insistence that reason operates independently of faith allowed science to be separated from theology and philosophy. Legal studies were marked by the steady advance of Roman law into areas of jurisprudence previously governed by customary law. The lone exception to this trend was in England, where the common law remained pre-eminent. Other countries codified their laws; legal codes were promulgated in Castile, Poland, and Lithuania.\n\nEducation remained mostly focused on the training of future clergy. The basic learning of the letters and numbers remained the province of the family or a village priest, but the secondary subjects of the trivium—grammar, rhetoric, logic—were studied in cathedral schools or in schools provided by cities. Commercial secondary schools spread, and some Italian towns had more than one such enterprise. Universities also spread throughout Europe in the 14th and 15th centuries. Lay literacy rates rose, but were still low; one estimate gave a literacy rate of ten percent of males and one percent of females in 1500.\n\nThe publication of vernacular literature increased, with Dante (d. 1321), Petrarch (d. 1374) and Giovanni Boccaccio (d. 1375) in 14th-century Italy, Geoffrey Chaucer (d. 1400) and William Langland (d. c. 1386) in England, and François Villon (d. 1464) and Christine de Pizan (d. c. 1430) in France. Much literature remained religious in character, and although a great deal of it continued to be written in Latin, a new demand developed for saints' lives and other devotional tracts in the vernacular languages. This was fed by the growth of the \"Devotio Moderna\" movement, most prominently in the formation of the Brethren of the Common Life, but also in the works of German mystics such as Meister Eckhart and Johannes Tauler (d. 1361). Theatre also developed in the guise of miracle plays put on by the Church. At the end of the period, the development of the printing press in about 1450 led to the establishment of publishing houses throughout Europe by 1500.\n\nIn the early 15th century, the countries of the Iberian peninsula began to sponsor exploration beyond the boundaries of Europe. Prince Henry the Navigator of Portugal (d. 1460) sent expeditions that discovered the Canary Islands, the Azores, and Cape Verde during his lifetime. After his death, exploration continued; Bartolomeu Dias (d. 1500) went around the Cape of Good Hope in 1486 and Vasco da Gama (d. 1524) sailed around Africa to India in 1498. The combined Spanish monarchies of Castile and Aragon sponsored the voyage of exploration by Christopher Columbus (d. 1506) in 1492 that discovered the Americas. The English crown under Henry VII sponsored the voyage of John Cabot (d. 1498) in 1497, which landed on Cape Breton Island.\n\nOne of the major developments in the military sphere during the Late Middle Ages was the increased use of infantry and light cavalry. The English also employed longbowmen, but other countries were unable to create similar forces with the same success. Armour continued to advance, spurred by the increasing power of crossbows, and plate armour was developed to protect soldiers from crossbows as well as the hand-held guns that were developed. Pole arms reached new prominence with the development of the Flemish and Swiss infantry armed with pikes and other long spears.\n\nIn agriculture, the increased usage of sheep with long-fibred wool allowed a stronger thread to be spun. In addition, the spinning wheel replaced the traditional distaff for spinning wool, tripling production. A less technological refinement that still greatly affected daily life was the use of buttons as closures for garments, which allowed for better fitting without having to lace clothing on the wearer. Windmills were refined with the creation of the tower mill, allowing the upper part of the windmill to be spun around to face the direction from which the wind was blowing. The blast furnace appeared around 1350 in Sweden, increasing the quantity of iron produced and improving its quality. The first patent law in 1447 in Venice protected the rights of inventors to their inventions.\n\nThe Late Middle Ages in Europe as a whole correspond to the Trecento and Early Renaissance cultural periods in Italy. Northern Europe and Spain continued to use Gothic styles, which became increasingly elaborate in the 15th century, until almost the end of the period. International Gothic was a courtly style that reached much of Europe in the decades around 1400, producing masterpieces such as the Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry. All over Europe secular art continued to increase in quantity and quality, and in the 15th century the mercantile classes of Italy and Flanders became important patrons, commissioning small portraits of themselves in oils as well as a growing range of luxury items such as jewellery, ivory caskets, cassone chests, and maiolica pottery. These objects also included the Hispano-Moresque ware produced by mostly Mudéjar potters in Spain. Although royalty owned huge collections of plate, little survives except for the Royal Gold Cup. Italian silk manufacture developed, so that Western churches and elites no longer needed to rely on imports from Byzantium or the Islamic world. In France and Flanders tapestry weaving of sets like \"The Lady and the Unicorn\" became a major luxury industry.\n\nThe large external sculptural schemes of Early Gothic churches gave way to more sculpture inside the building, as tombs became more elaborate and other features such as pulpits were sometimes lavishly carved, as in the Pulpit by Giovanni Pisano in Sant'Andrea. Painted or carved wooden relief altarpieces became common, especially as churches created many side-chapels. Early Netherlandish painting by artists such as Jan van Eyck (d. 1441) and Rogier van der Weyden (d. 1464) rivalled that of Italy, as did northern illuminated manuscripts, which in the 15th century began to be collected on a large scale by secular elites, who also commissioned secular books, especially histories. From about 1450 printed books rapidly became popular, though still expensive. There were around 30,000 different editions of incunabula, or works printed before 1500, by which time illuminated manuscripts were commissioned only by royalty and a few others. Very small woodcuts, nearly all religious, were affordable even by peasants in parts of Northern Europe from the middle of the 15th century. More expensive engravings supplied a wealthier market with a variety of images.\n\nThe medieval period is frequently caricatured as a \"time of ignorance and superstition\" that placed \"the word of religious authorities over personal experience and rational activity.\" This is a legacy from both the Renaissance and Enlightenment when scholars favourably contrasted their intellectual cultures with those of the medieval period. Renaissance scholars saw the Middle Ages as a period of decline from the high culture and civilisation of the Classical world; Enlightenment scholars saw reason as superior to faith, and thus viewed the Middle Ages as a time of ignorance and superstition.\n\nOthers argue that reason was generally held in high regard during the Middle Ages. Science historian Edward Grant writes, \"If revolutionary rational thoughts were expressed [in the 18th century], they were only made possible because of the long medieval tradition that established the use of reason as one of the most important of human activities\". Also, contrary to common belief, David Lindberg writes, \"the late medieval scholar rarely experienced the coercive power of the Church and would have regarded himself as free (particularly in the natural sciences) to follow reason and observation wherever they led\".\n\nThe caricature of the period is also reflected in some more specific notions. One misconception, first propagated in the 19th century and still very common, is that all people in the Middle Ages believed that the Earth was flat. This is untrue, as lecturers in the medieval universities commonly argued that evidence showed the Earth was a sphere. Lindberg and Ronald Numbers, another scholar of the period, state that there \"was scarcely a Christian scholar of the Middle Ages who did not acknowledge [Earth's] sphericity and even know its approximate circumference\". Other misconceptions such as \"the Church prohibited autopsies and dissections during the Middle Ages\", \"the rise of Christianity killed off ancient science\", or \"the medieval Christian Church suppressed the growth of natural philosophy\", are all cited by Numbers as examples of widely popular myths that still pass as historical truth, although they are not supported by historical research.\n\n"}
{"id": "47083030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47083030", "title": "Muhammad Nawaz Khan (writer)", "text": "Muhammad Nawaz Khan (writer)\n\nMajor (Retd.) Muhammad Nawaz Khan (, pronounced ; 23 November 1943 – 3 October 2015), was a Pakistani writer, historian, columnist, and poet of the English, Pashto and Urdu languages. His work had mostly been focused on history of the Pashtuns, the Gandhara civilization and the British legacy in Pakistan (specifically, the North Western Region).\n\nMuhammad Nawaz joined the Pakistan Military Academy as a cadet in the 2nd War Course, right after the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965. He graduated from the academy after a year and joined the 5th FF Regiment as a Second Lieutenant. Nawaz served in the Pakistan Army for twenty five years, from 1966 till 1991. He retired as a Major. During his service with Pakistan Army, he served as 2IC (Second in Command) of his unit. Nawaz also joined the Command and Staff College, Quetta, graduating in 1977. He served as the Wing Commander at Balahisar Fort in Peshawar, Pakistan, the Headquarters of Frontier Corps. During this time, he was also the official historian of Frontier Corps. Nawaz also wrote little bits of history about the Balahisar Fort, which have been placed on twelve plaques at different locations in the Fort. The plaques give visitors a brief history as well as provide interesting trivia about early life in and around the Fort.\n\nNawaz was also a student editor of Pashto section of Khirman, the journal of the College of Agriculture, Peshawar University. He was also a member of National Heritage Foundation and member executive committees of the Kalash Environment Protection Society, Pakistan Heritage Society and Irfan Society. He is also a member of the NWFP government's Roundtable on Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Tourism Development and member of NWFP government's Experts Committee for assisting and advising Departments of Archaeology and Culture regarding protection, preservation and development of cultural, archaeological and architectural heritage of the province. He was also a member of the Task Force on Tourism of the NWFP government.\n\nHe participated in many seminars, workshops, conventions, conferences and meetings about cultural heritage and tourism. He also managed Gandhara Markaz, which publishes books/brochures. He started work on the Major Nawaz Research Trust from 20 December 2003, for the help of researchers and scholars.\n\nMajor Nawaz worked on a number of history and tourism projects for the Frontier Corps (KPK), Frontier Constabulary, Pakistan Army, Pakistan Air Force, Frontier Corps Foundation, Pakistan Television Corporation, Pearl Continental Hotel, Peshawar and Sarhad Tourism Corporation.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1996, Major Nawaz, as the proprietor and editor, launched the \"Gandhara Times\", a fortnightly newspaper focusing primarily on the preservation of cultural heritage and promotion of tourism in Pakistan. All copies of the newspaper have been preserved for reference purposes.\n\nNawaz had been suffering from Parkinson's Disease since the mid 1990s. His health deteriorated significantly though, after he fell down and suffered from a broken elbow, in May 2014. The long drawn fight with Parkinson's disease had made him weak and this injury proved to be a very serious challenge. Nawaz was bedridden for over a year due to weakness. Finally, after fighting Parkinson's Disease for almost 20 years, Nawaz died in Risalpur, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan on 3 October 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "249686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249686", "title": "New Chronology (Rohl)", "text": "New Chronology (Rohl)\n\nNew Chronology is an alternative chronology of the ancient Near East developed by English Egyptologist David Rohl and other researchers beginning with \"A Test of Time: The Bible - from Myth to History\" in 1995. It contradicts mainstream Egyptology by proposing a major revision of the established Egyptian chronology, in particular by re-dating Egyptian kings of the Nineteenth through Twenty-fifth Dynasties, bringing forward conventional dating by up to 350 years. Rohl asserts that the New Chronology allows him to identify some of the characters in the Hebrew Bible with people whose names appear in archaeological finds.\n\nThe New Chronology, one of several proposed radical revisions of the conventional chronology, has not been accepted in academic Egyptology, where the conventional chronology or small variations of it remain standard. Amélie Kuhrt, head of Ancient Near Eastern History at University College London, in one of the standard reference works of the discipline, notes, \nRohl's most vocal critic has been Kenneth Kitchen, one of the leading experts on biblical history and the author of the standard work on the conventional chronology of the Third Intermediate Period of Egypt, the period most directly affected by the New Chronology's redating of the Nineteenth to Twenty-fifth Dynasties.\n\nDavid Rohl's published works \"A Test of Time\" (1995), \"Legend\" (1998), \"The Lost Testament\" (2002), and \"The Lords of Avaris\" (2007) set forth Rohl's theories for re-dating the major civilisations of the ancient world. \"A Test of Time\" proposes a down-dating (bringing closer to the present), by several centuries, of the New Kingdom of Egypt, thus needing a major revision of the conventional chronology of ancient Egypt. Rohl asserts that this would let scholars identify some of the major events in the Hebrew Bible with events in the archaeological record and identify some of the well-known biblical characters with historical figures who appear in contemporary ancient texts. Lowering the Egyptian dates also dramatically affects the dating of dependent chronologies, such as that currently used for the Greek Heroic Age of the Late Bronze Age, removing the Greek Dark Ages, and lowering the dates of the Trojan War to within two generations of a ninth-century-BC Homer and his most famous composition: the \"Iliad\".\n\nRejecting the Revised Chronology of Immanuel Velikovsky and the Glasgow Chronology presented at the Society for Interdisciplinary Studies's 1978 \"Ages in Chaos\" conference, the New Chronology lowers the Egyptian dates (established within the traditional chronology) by up to 350 years at points before the universally accepted fixed date of 664 BC for the sacking of Thebes by Ashurbanipal.\n\nBefore the 1995 publication of \"A Test of Time\", Thomas L. Thompson, a theologian associated with Biblical Minimalism, had insisted that any attempt to write history based on a direct integration of biblical and extra-biblical sources was \"not only dubious but wholly ludicrous\". Rohl explained his view on the issue in \"The Lost Testament\" (2007): \"Is the Old Testament history or myth? The only way to answer that question is to investigate the biblical stories using the archaeological evidence, combined with a study of the ancient texts of the civilisations which had a role to play in the Bible story. But this has to be done with an open mind. In my view the biblical text – just like any other ancient document – should be treated as a potentially reliable historical source until it can be demonstrated to be otherwise.\" Rohl had previously remarked in \"A Test of Time\" (1995) that he \"did not originally set out to challenge our current understanding of the Old Testament narratives. This has come about simply because of the need to explore the ramifications of my TIP [Egyptian Third Intermediate Period] research. I have no religious axe to grind – I am simply an historian in search of some historical truth.\"\n\nRohl's redating is based on criticism of three of the four arguments which he considers are the original foundations of the conventional chronology for the Egyptian New Kingdom:\n\nThus, Rohl is of the opinion that none of these three foundations of the conventional Egyptian chronology are secure, and that the sacking of Thebes by the Assyrian king Ashurbanipal in 664 BC is the earliest fixed date in Egyptian history.\n\nRohl bases his revised chronology (the New Chronology) on his interpretation of numerous archeological finds and genealogical records from Egypt. For example:\n\n\nMost Egyptologists accept Shishaq as an alternative name for Shoshenq I. Rohl disputes that Shoshenq's military activity fits the biblical account of Shishaq on the grounds that the two kings' campaigns are completely different and Jerusalem does not appear in the Shoshenq inscription as a subjected town. He also points out that Ramesses did campaign against Israel and that he had a short form of his formal name which was in use in Palestine. That name was Sysw, whilst the early Hebrew alphabet did not distinguish between S and SH, so the biblical name may have originally been Sysq. Rohl has also argued that the qoph ending may be a later misreading of the early sign for waw which in the tenth century was identical to the seventh century sign for qoph. Thus 7th century Sysq may have been a mistaken later reading of tenth-century Sysw.\n\nThe theory that Ramesses II (hypocoristicon \"Sysa\"), rather than Shoshenq I, should be identified with the biblical Shishak is not widely accepted. \n\nKevin Wilson agrees only partially with David Rohl. Wilson accepts that there is a mismatch between the triumphal relief of Shoshenq I and the biblical description of King Shishak. However, he does not think that this discrepancy gives sufficient reason for doubting the identification of Shoshenq I with King Shishak of the Bible. Wilson writes about Shoshenq's inscription, \"Contrary to previous studies, which have interpreted the relief as a celebration of his Palestine campaign, neither the triumphal relief nor any of its elements can be utilized as a source for historical data about that campaign. … the triumphal relief can unfortunately play no role in the reconstruction of Shoshenq’s campaign.\"\nWilson's view is not supported by Kenneth Kitchen who states: \"That the great topographical list of Shoshenq I at Karnak is a document of the greatest possible value for the history and nature of his campaign against Judah and Israel is now clearly established beyond all dispute, thanks to the labours expended on that list by a series of scholars. However, the composition and interpretation of the list still require further examination and clarification\". Other leading scholars who have studied the campaign relief point out that it is indeed a unique list of subjected towns and not a copy of an earlier campaign by a more celebrated pharaoh. This originality makes it far more likely that it is a true representation of cities and locations brought under Egyptian control by the military activities of Shoshenq I.\n\nThe implications of a radical down-dating of the conventional Egyptian chronology, such as that proposed by Rohl and other revisionists, are complex and wide-ranging. The New Chronology affects the historical disciplines of Old Testament studies, Levantine archaeology, Aegean and Anatolian archaeology and Classical studies, and raises major issues concerning Mesopotamian chronology and its links with Egypt and Anatolia.\n\nRedating the reign of Ramesses II to three centuries later than that given by the conventional chronology would reposition the date of the Battle of Kadesh and revise the linked chronology of Hittite history, and would need a revision of the chronology of Assyrian history before 911 BC. Given the dependence of Hittite chronology on Egyptian chronology, a lowering of Egyptian dates would result in a lowering of the end of the Hittite New Kingdom and a resulting reduction (or complete removal) of the Anatolian Dark Age.\n\nDuring the Amarna period, a chronological synchronism between Egypt and Assyria is attested through the correspondence of Pharaoh Akhenaten and a King Ashuruballit. In the conventional chronology, this Ashuruballit is identified with Ashur-uballit I of the early Middle Assyrian Empire, but the New Chronology has proposed the addition of an otherwise unknown King Ashuruballit \"II\" during the Middle Assyrian \"dark age\" as the author of the Amarna letters. Given that the Ashuruballit I synchronism with Akhenaten has become the crucial link between Egyptian and Mesopotamian history in recent years, this issue is a key area of focus and dispute.\n\nAs explained above, the New Chronology rejects the identification of Shoshenq I with the biblical Shishaq, and instead offers Ramesses II (also known by his nickname \"Sysa\") as the real historical figure behind the Shishaq narrative.\n\nRohl identifies Labaya, a local ruler in Canaan whose activities are documented in the Amarna Letters, with Saul, and identifies David with Dadua (\"Tadua\"), also mentioned in Amarna Letter EA256. Saul and Labaya share the same demise - \"both die in battle - against a coalition of city states from the coastal plain - on or near Mount Gilboa, both as a result of betrayal.\" Both also have a surviving son whose name translates as \"Man of Baal.\"\n\nThe New Chronology places Solomon at the end of the wealthy Late Bronze Age rather than in the relatively impoverished Early Iron Age. Rohl and other New Chronology researchers contend that this fits better with the Hebrew Bible's description of Solomon's wealth.\n\nFurthermore, Rohl shifts the Israelite Sojourn, Exodus and Conquest from the end of the Late Bronze Age to the latter part of the Middle Bronze Age (from the Nineteenth Dynasty to the Thirteenth/Hyksos period). Rohl claims that this solves many of the problems associated with the historicity issue of the biblical narratives. He makes use of the archaeological reports from Avaris, in the eastern Nile Delta, which show that a large Semitic-speaking population lived there during the Thirteenth Dynasty. These people were culturally similar to the population of Middle Bronze Age (MB IIA) Canaan. Rohl identifies these Semites as the people upon whom the biblical tradition of the Israelite Sojourn in Egypt was subsequently based.\n\nTowards the end of the Middle Bronze Age (late MB IIB) archaeologists have revealed a series of city destructions which John Bimson and Rohl have argued correspond closely to the cities attacked by the Israelite tribes in the Joshua narrative. Most importantly, the heavily fortified city of Jericho was destroyed and abandoned at this time. On the other hand, there was no city of Jericho in existence at the end of the Late Bronze Age, drawing William Dever to conclude that \"Joshua destroyed a city that wasn’t even there\". Rohl claims that it is this lack of archaeological evidence to confirm biblical events in the Late Bronze Age which lies behind modern scholarly skepticism over the reliability of the Hebrew Bible narratives before the Divided Monarchy period. He gives the example of Israeli professor of archaeology, Ze'ev Herzog, who caused an uproar in Israel and abroad when he gave voice to the \"fairly widespread\" view held among his colleagues that \"there had been no Exodus from Egypt, no invasion by Joshua and that the Israelites had developed slowly and were originally Canaanites,\" concluding that the Sojourn, Exodus and Conquest was “a history that never happened.” However, Rohl contends that the New Chronology, with the shift of the Exodus and Conquest events to the Middle Bronze Age, removes the principal reason for that widespread academic skepticism.\n\nRohl identifies:\n\nRohl, in addition to his chronology, also has some geographical ideas that are different from the conventional notions. These include:\n\n\nDates proposed by Rohl for various Egyptian monarchs, all dates BCE (NC=New Chronology, OC=Orthodox/conventional Chronology):\n\nMost Egyptologists have not adopted the New Chronology, continuing to employ the standard chronology in mainstream academic and popular publications. Rohl's most vocal critic has been Professor Kenneth Kitchen, formerly of Liverpool University, who called Rohl's thesis \"100% nonsense.\" By contrast, other Egyptologists recognise the value of Rohl's work in challenging the bases of the Egyptian chronological framework. Professor Erik Hornung acknowledges that \"...there remain many uncertainties in the Third Intermediate Period, as critics such as David Rohl have rightly maintained; even our basic premise of 925 [BC] for Shoshenq’s campaign to Jerusalem is not built on solid foundations.\" Academic debate on the New Chronology, however, has largely not taken place in Egyptological or archaeological journals. Most discussions are to be found in the Institute for the Study of Interdisciplinary Sciences' \"Journal of the Ancient Chronology Forum\" (1985–2006).\n\nChris Bennett (1996), while saying \"I am quite certain that Rohl’s views are wrong\" notes that besides academic debate on problems with the conventional chronology, such as those associated with the Thera eruption, a \"far deeper challenge ... has been mounted in the public arena.\" The history of this challenge to mainstream consensus outside of academic debate originates with the 1991 \"Centuries of Darkness\" by Peter James, together with Rohl, co-founder of the Institute for the Study of Interdisciplinary Sciences. \"Centuries of Darkness\" postulated 250 years of non-existent \"phantom time\" in the conventional chronology based on an archaeological \"Dark Age\".\n\nKenneth Kitchen's arguments against the New Chronology have focused on Rohl's Third Intermediate Period revision which proposes an overlap between the 21st and 22nd Dynasties. In particular Kitchen challenges the validity of the chronological anomalies raised by Rohl, questioning whether they are true anomalies and offering his own explanations for the apparent problems raised by Rohl. Kitchen accuses New Chronologists of being obsessed with trying to close gaps in the archaeological record by lowering the dating.\n\nGrouping all radical revisions of Egyptian chronology together without distinction, Erik Hornung, in his Introduction to the \"Handbook of Ancient Egyptian Chronology\", makes the following statement:\n\nWe will always be exposed to such attempts, but they could only be taken seriously if not only the arbitrary dynasties and rulers, but also their contexts, could be displaced... In the absence of such proofs we can hardly be expected to \"refute\" such claims, or even to respond in any fashion ... It is thus neither arrogance nor ill-will that leads the academic community to neglect these efforts which frequently lead to irritation and distrust outside of professional circles (and are often undertaken with the encouragement of the media). These attempts usually require a rather lofty disrespect of the most elementary sources and facts and thus do not merit discussion. We will therefore avoid discussion of such issues in our handbook, restricting ourselves to those hypotheses and discussions which are based on the sources.\n\nBennett (1996), whilst not accepting Rohl's thesis, suggests that such out-of-hand rejection may be inappropriate in Rohl's case, since \"there is a world of difference between [Rohl's] intellectual standing and that of Velikovsky, or even Peter James\" since, unlike \"popular radicalisms\" such as those of Velikovsky, Bauval or Hancock, \"Rohl has a considerable mastery of his material.\"\n\nProfessor Amélie Kuhrt, head of Ancient Near Eastern History at University College, London, in one of the standard reference works of the discipline, states:\n\nAn extreme low chronology has been proposed recently by a group devoted to revising the absolute chronology of the Mediterranean and Western Asia: P. James et al., \"Centuries of Darkness\", London, 1991; similar, though slightly diverging revisions, are upheld by another group, too, and partly published in the \"Journal of the Ancient Chronology Forum\". The hub for the dating of other cultures is Egypt, so much of the work of both groups focuses on Egyptian evidence. Many scholars feel sympathetic to the critique of weaknesses in the existing chronological framework presented in these volumes, but most archaeologists and ancient historians are not at present convinced that the radical redatings proposed stand up to close examination.\n\nIn 2010 a series of corroborated radiocarbon dates were published for dynastic Egypt which suggest some minor revisions to the conventional chronology, but do not support Rohl's proposed revisions.\n\nIn 1995 Rohl published his version of the New Chronology, in the best-selling book \"A Test of Time\", accompanied by a 1995 Channel 4 three-part series \"Pharaohs and Kings - A Biblical Quest\". \"A Test of Time\" takes up the general scenario presented by James, adding many details omitted in 1991, including the \"dramatic results\" pertaining to Biblical chronology. Whilst the New Chronology has not been broadly accepted in academia, it has been widely disseminated to the public since the 1990s via Rohl's best-selling books and the 1995 Channel 4 television documentary, aired in the United States in 1996 on The Learning Channel. Berthoud (2008) contrasts the \"near-unanimous\" rejection of Rohl's theories in Egyptology with the \"sensational effect\" his books, combined with the television series, had on the general public.\n\nThe reaction of some leading figures from the academic establishment has been very hostile. Kenneth Kitchen presented a \"savage review\" of \"Centuries of Darkness\" in the \"Times Literary Supplement\", and the British Museum banned \"A Test of Time\" from its museum store.\n\nIn December 1999 the Dutch language internet journal \"Bijbel, Geschiedenis en Archeologie\" (Bible, History and Archaeology) devoted space to a debate about Rohl's New Chronology. According to evangelical scholar, J.G. van der Land, editor of the journal, Rohl's time-line resolves some archaeological anomalies surrounding ancient Egypt, but creates conflicts with other areas that make it untenable. His arguments were then countered by Peter van der Veen and Robert Porter. In the final article in the issue, van der Land identified some new issues for Rohl's chronology arising from recent finds in Assyrian letters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9138972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9138972", "title": "Ottone and Acerbo Morena", "text": "Ottone and Acerbo Morena\n\nOttone and his son Acerbo Morena (died 1167) of Lodi were Italian chroniclers who wrote in Latin of twelfth-century events from a Lombard point of view in a history of Lodi, De rebus Laudensibus, (\"Concerning Lodi\") which was begun by Ottone. Acerbo died in the outbreak of plague that attended the disorders when Frederick Barbarossa's army took possession of Rome in July 1167. The chronicle includes verbal portraits of numerous contemporaries, including Frederick Barbarossa. Their chronicle found an anonymous continuator whose work is generally appended to theirs.\n\n"}
{"id": "14032774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14032774", "title": "Paul R. Bartrop", "text": "Paul R. Bartrop\n\nPaul R. Bartrop (born November 3, 1955) is an Australian historian of the Holocaust and genocide. Since August 2012 he has been Professor of History and Director of the Center for Judaic, Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Florida Gulf Coast University, Fort Myers, Florida. In 2011-2012 he was the Ida E. King Distinguished Visiting Professor of Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Richard Stockton College of New Jersey.\n\nBartrop is descended from a British convict sent to Van Diemen's Land in the early 1820s, James Bartrop, and his wife Elizabeth Wright Bartrop. He is the son of Donald Anthony Bartrop (1918-1974) and Barbara Eileen Bartrop, née Page (1920-2013). He attended Melbourne's La Trobe University (BA Hons, 1977; MA, 1982), and received his PhD from Monash University in 1989, with a dissertation entitled \"Indifference and Inconvenience: Australian Government Policy toward Refugees from Nazism, 1933-1939.\" Across a varied academic career, he has taught at Monash University, the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education (a College of Advanced Education in the Australian tertiary education system, now Federation University), the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, Deakin University, and the University of South Australia. In 1997 he joined the teaching faculty at Melbourne's Bialik College, where he pioneered a Year 10 elective, Comparative Genocide Studies. At the time it was probably the only full-year high school course on comparative genocide anywhere in the world. At Bialik, Bartrop was the Head of the History Department (2005-2011), and taught subjects in History, Comparative Genocide Studies, Jewish Studies (including Holocaust Studies), International Studies, and Religion and Society.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2010 Bartrop was an Honorary Fellow in the Faculty of Arts and Education (and its predecessor schools) at Deakin University, appointed for his contributions to Jewish History and Genocide Studies. In 1996 he was a Visiting Professor in the Honors College at Virginia Commonwealth University, and in 2002 was Scholar-in-Residence at the Martin-Springer Institute for Teaching the Holocaust, Tolerance and Humanitarian Values at Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff.\n\nIn 1990 he was named an Honorary Life Member of the Jewish Museum of Australia, and between 1991 and 1993 he served as President of the Australian Association for Jewish Studies, having earlier been that organization's Vice-President. In 2008 he was conferred with the title \"Friend of the Armenian Community\" by the Armenian National Committee (Melbourne Chapter), and in 2011 received a Distinguished Service Award from Melbourne's Assyrian Community for his work in genocide awareness. In 2013 he was elected as Vice-President of the Midwest Jewish Studies Association in the United States.\n\nIn July 2010 Bartrop was named as a member of the International Council of the Austrian Service Abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "17027718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17027718", "title": "Pentagon military analyst program", "text": "Pentagon military analyst program\n\nThe Pentagon military analyst program was a propaganda campaign of the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) that was launched in early 2002 by then-Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs Victoria Clarke. The goal of the operation is \"to spread the administrations's talking points on Iraq by briefing retired commanders for network and cable television appearances,\" where they have been presented as independent analysts; \nA Pentagon spokesman said the Pentagon's intent is to keep the American people informed about the so-called War on Terrorism by providing prominent military analysts with factual information and frequent, direct access to key military officials. The \"Times\" article suggests that the analysts had undisclosed financial conflicts of interest and were given special access as a reward for promoting the administration's point of view. On 28 April 2008, the Pentagon ended the operation. A DoD Inspector General investigation found no wrongdoing on the part of the DoD.\n\nDetails of the operation were first revealed in a lengthy \"New York Times\" exposé written by David Barstow and published in April 2008. Within the documents the analysts were referred to as message force multipliers (q.v. force multiplication).\nA number of the military analysts used by US television have extensive business interests in promoting the administration's views as employees of, or investors in, various military contractors or as lobbyists for such contractors; however, viewers have not been made aware of such ties. Peace activist Colman McCarthy had warned of the potential conflicts of interest many of the same analysts had in a \"Washington Post\" op-ed in April 2003.\n\nThe analysts were given access to hundreds of private briefings with senior military leaders, including officials with significant influence over budget and contracting matters, taken on official tours to Iraq, and given access to classified intelligence. Some participants claimed that they were instructed not to quote their briefers directly or otherwise describe their contacts with the Pentagon.\n\nThe \"Times\" article states that: \"Some analysts stated that in later interviews that they echoed the Pentagon's talking points, even when they suspected the information was false or inflated.\" Robert S. Bevelacqua, a critic of the Bush administration, retired Green Beret and former Fox News analyst said, \"It was them saying, 'We need to stick our hands up your back and move your mouth for you.\", although Bevelacqua himself opposed the War in Iraq during the time he claims to have been briefed by Pentagon officials. Bevelacqua left Fox in April 2005 due to his dissatisfaction with Fox's coverage of the war.\n\nAccording to the DoD, from 2002 to 2008, the program held 147 events for 74 military analysts, including 22 meetings at the Pentagon, 114 conference calls with generals and senior Pentagon officials and 11 DoD-sponsored trips to Iraq and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Donald Rumsfeld was personally involved with 20 of the events. During that time, four analysts were removed from the program's invitation list for, reportedly, making public remarks critical of the DoD. Forty-three of the analysts involved in the program were employed by or affiliated with defense contractors which were doing or seeking to obtain contracts from the DoD.\n\nCBS, NBC, and Fox did not comment on the involvement of their analysts. With the exception of two mentions on PBS, there has been a de facto blackout of this story by the networks.\nThe \"Times\" itself published \"at least\" nine op-eds by the analysts. Andrew Rosenthal, editorial page editor of the \"Times\", said that none of the op-ed's dealt specifically with assessments of the war or any specific business entities with which the author had ties. The Pentagon also helped two of the retired commanders write an article in the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"forwarded talking points and statistics to rebut the notion\" of a spreading \"General's revolt\" against Donald Rumsfeld in April 2006 (q.v.).\n\nKatrina vanden Heuvel, editor of the progressive publication \"The Nation\", urged the U.S. Congress to investigate the program, and Free Press launched an online petition also supporting such an investigation.\n\nOn 23 April 2008, Carl Levin, chair of the US Senate Armed Services Committee, asked the Pentagon to investigate the practice.\n\nThe following day, 24 April 2008, Dan Rabkin published a rebuttal article in the conservative \"FrontPage Magazine\" in which he claimed Barstow's piece was an \"anti-military smear masquerading as investigative journalism.\"\nAlso on 24 April, Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) sent letters to five network executives. Only ABC and CNN have responded so far.\n\nOn 6 May 2008, DeLauro sent a letter together with John Dingell (D-Mich.) to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Kevin J. Martin \"urging an investigation of the Pentagon's propaganda program\" to determine if the networks or analysts violated federal law.\nFurthermore, Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.) and Russ Feingold (D-Wis.) have written to Congress's investigative arm, the Government Accountability Office (GAO).\n\nOn 22 May 2008, the House passed an amendment to the annual military authorization bill that would mandate investigations of the program by both the inspector general's office at the Defense Department and the GAO.\nThe inspector general's office announced that it would investigate the matter, whereas the GAO announced that it had already begun doing so.\n\nIn January 2009, the US Department of Defense (DoD) Inspector General (IG) released the report of its investigation. The report rejected most of the allegations from Barstow's \"New York Times\" story. The DoD report concluded that the evidence was, \"insufficient to conclude that [Retired Military Analyst] RMA outreach activities were improper. Further, we found insufficient basis to conclude that [the office of public affairs] conceived of or undertook a disciplined effort to assemble a contingent of influential RMAs who could be depended on to comment favorably on DoD programs.\" Concerning the contract controversy, the investigation found that, \"extensive searches found no instance where such RMAs used information or contacts obtained as a result of the OASD(PA) outreach program to achieve a competitive advantage for their company.\" The report stated that 29 percent of the RMA had some type of corporate association.\n\nIn April 2009, the Pulitzer Committee announced that it would be awarding a Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting to the \"New York Times\" and David Barstow for the RMA expose'. RMAs such as US Air Force Lieutenant General Tomas G. McInerney and Army Major General Paul E. Vallely reacted angrily to the announcement, citing the DoD IG's investigation which the RMA's stated had \"discredited\" the \"Times\" story. Barstow replied that the \"Times\" public editor, Clark Hoyt, had found the DoD IG's investigation \"highly flawed\" and labeled it a \"whitewash.\"\n\nOn May 6, 2009 a story by Barstow in the \"New York Times\" revealed that Donald M. Horstman, the DoD's deputy inspector general, had repudiated the DoD investigation report, stating that an internal review found that the report, \"did not meet accepted quality standards\" and \"relied on a body of testimonial evidence that was insufficient or inconclusive.\" According to Horstman, the review found that Pentagon officials who had devised and managed the analyst program had refused to speak to DoD investigators. The review also found that the investigation's methodology was seriously flawed. Horstman added that no additional investigative work would be done to reissue the report because the analyst program has been terminated and the senior officials who oversaw it no longer work for the DoD.\n\nOn May 7, 2009 the \"Washington Times\" reported that the DoD IG had reviewed and withdrawn the report after being pressured by Senator Carl Levin, Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Armed Services, to do so. Levin reportedly sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates on February 2, 2009 rejecting the report and asking the DoD IG to conduct a second investigation. The \"Washington Times\" noted that Barstow, in his May 6 story in the \"New York Times\" about the pulled report, had failed to disclose Levin's involvement.\n\nThe Government Accountability Office (GAO), with assistance from the Comptroller General of the United States, released a report on its investigation into the program in July 2009. The GAO confirmed as true the allegations that retired general officers had been given special access to military briefings and facilities for the purpose of influencing public opinion when the retired officers commented in the news media. The GAO concluded, however, that the DoD had not violated any laws with its conduct of the program, because government agencies have traditionally been given wide leeway in how they inform the public about their work. Daniel Gordon, acting general counsel for the GAO, stated that, \"While DoD understandably values its ties with retired military officers, we believe that, before undertaking anything along the lines of the now-terminated program at issue in this decision, DoD should consider whether it needs to have additional policies and procedures in place to protect the integrity of, and public confidence in, its public affairs efforts and to ensure the transparency of its public relations activities.\"\n\nThe Federal Communications Commission, in response to the GAO report and urging from Representative John Dingell, stated that it was investigating whether television broadcasters broke \"payola\" rules on proper disclosure of sponsorship when they used the military analysts. The DoD was continuing to examine the issue under the direction of new DoD IG director Gordon Haddell.\n\nThe DoD IG released its investigation report in December 2011. The report found no wrongdoing by the DoD, concluding that it had acted in compliance with government policies and regulation in running the program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996689", "title": "Quintus Claudius Quadrigarius", "text": "Quintus Claudius Quadrigarius\n\nQuintus Claudius Quadrigarius, Roman annalist, living probably in the 1st century BC, wrote a history, in at least twenty-three books, which began with the conquest of Rome by the Gauls (ca. 390 BC) and went on to the time of Sulla (fr. 84: 82 BC). The Clodius mentioned in Plutarch's \"Life of Numa\" 1.2 is probably identical to Quadrigarius.\n\nAlong with annalist Valerius Antias, Livy freely used Quadrigarius as a major source in part of his work (from the sixth book onwards). A substantial fragment is preserved in Aulus Gellius (ix. 13), giving an account of the famous single combat between T. Manlius Torquatus and a Gaul. The judgement of Quadrigarius' historical work varied. He was appreciated for his archaizing style in the 2nd century AD, but others thought that his language was antiquated and his style dry. His work was considered very important especially for the contemporary history he narrates. The fragments of his work are collected in H. Peter \"Historicorum Romanorum Reliquiae\" (\"HRR\" 1.205-237).\n\n"}
{"id": "1960587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1960587", "title": "Richard Gwyn", "text": "Richard Gwyn\n\nRichard John Philip Jermy Gwyn, (born May 26, 1934) is a Canadian civil servant, journalist and author.\n\nRichard Gwyn was born on May 26, 1934, in Bury St. Edmunds, England. He was the second son to his parents Brigadier Philip Eustace Congreve Jermy-Gwyn, an Indian Army officer, and Elizabeth Edith Jermy-Gwyn (née Tilley), eldest daughter of Sir John Anthony Cecil Tilley. His older brother died at infancy.\n\nAt the age of 20, in 1954, he emigrated to Canada.\n\nGwyn was educated at Stonyhurst College, a co-educational Roman Catholic School in Lancashire, England. Gwyn also attended the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1959, Gwyn was the parliamentary correspondent for United Press International. Later in 1959 to 1960, he worked for Thomson Newspapers. From 1960 to 1962, he was the Ottawa editor for Maclean-Hunter Business Publications. From 1962 to 1968, he worked for \"Time Canada\" as a parliamentary correspondent and contributing editor. From 1968 to 1970, he was the executive assistant to the Minister of Communications, Eric Kierans. From 1970 to 1973, he was the director-general, socio-economic planning in the Department of Communications.\n\nIn 1973, Gwyn joined \"The Toronto Star\" and worked as a national affairs columnist until 1985. He then became an international affairs columnist later that year; this lasted till 1992.\n\nFour years after emigrating to Canada, Gwyn married Sandra Gwyn in 1958. Their marriage lasted till her death on May 26, 2000, due to breast cancer. Gwyn subsequently remarried to Carol Bishop-Gwyn, and after residing in the Cabbagetown neighbourhood of Toronto, he has recently moved with his wife into a condominium in the Lawrence Park neighbourhood.\n\nOn November 29, 2001, Gwyn was appointed chancellor of St. Jerome's University at the University of Waterloo and was installed on March 17, 2002. The same year, he became an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19482776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19482776", "title": "Sally Gibson", "text": "Sally Gibson\n\nSally Gibson is an author, archivist and heritage consultant who resides in Toronto and has written three books about the city and its heritage. She has a Master of Urban Studies from Yale University, and a Master of Library Science and a Ph.D. in Urban Geography from the University of Toronto. Gibson grew up in New Jersey, went to Vassar College, and moved to Toronto in 1969. Her first book, \"More than an Island: A History of the Toronto Island\" was described by urban thinker Jane Jacobs as \"city history at its very best\". Her second book, \"Inside Toronto: Urban Interiors 1880s to 1920s\", was a finalist for the City of Toronto Book Award and won a Heritage Toronto Book Award of Excellence in 2007. Her third book, \"Toronto’s Distillery District: History by the Lake\", evolved from her work as the Distillery District's site historian and won a Heritage Toronto Book Award of Merit in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46709940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46709940", "title": "Serbian chronicles", "text": "Serbian chronicles\n\nThis is a list of Serbian chronicles, most often referring to works of the Middle Ages, until the Ottoman conquest, hence called \"Old Serbian chronicles\" (). There exists 30 Serbian chronicles from the period between 1390 and 1526. Chronicles are divided into \"letopisi\" (annals, chronicles) and \"rodoslovi\" (geneaologies), and in turn by source age into \"older\" (\"stariji\") and \"younger\" (\"mlađi\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56334489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56334489", "title": "Squaw dress", "text": "Squaw dress\n\nA squaw, fiesta, Kachina, Tohono or patio dress is an American style of dress developed in Arizona. It became popular during the 1940s and 50s, and many famous women owned these dresses. It was developed primarily by Dolores Gonzales and Cele Peterson, who appropriated the look from Native American fashion. The word \"squaw\", once used for Native American women and thus for this fashion, is now seen as offensive and the other names for the dress, such as \"fiesta\" or \"patio\", are preferred.\n\nThe squaw dress could be either one or two pieces, with a two piece \"dress\" consisting of a skirt and a blouse. They were made with cotton or calico print. The skirt part of the dress is pleated, gathered or fully gathered with three-tiers. The dresses were often colorful and incorporated rickrack as well. The hemlines sometimes copied Native American basket designs. Many squaw dresses would be accessorized with \"concho\" belts, squash blossom necklaces and turquoise earrings. Later versions of the squaw dress included metallic fabrics and glitter. \n\nThe garment was described as being comfortable and flattering to most figures, according to \"The Arizona Republic\". The dresses were lightweight and comfortable to wear on hot days. They did not require ironing. In addition, the dress could be worn for many different kinds of occasions.\n\nThe original designs that served as the basis of the squaw dress skirt were found in Navajo broomstick skirts. These skirts and blouses that the Navajo wore were, in turn, based on 1870s and 1880s European fashions and fabrics. By 1910, a unique style had developed which incorporated Navajo ideals of beauty and it become widespread among Navajo women. The dresses also reflected a sense of \"cultural revitalization, high self-esteem, and ethnic identity,\" according to professor of American Indian studies Nancy Parezo and Angelina R. Jones. Bodices and blouses worn with the skirts reflected different origins. Loose blouses paired with the skirt came from Western Apache and Tohono O'odham dress. The squaw dress also had Mexican influences.\n\nThe different looks of the dress were based on different types of popular Navajo, Mexican, Tohono O'odham and Western Apache dresses. Zuni and Hopi dress were also an inspiration. The squaw dress also shows influence from the New Look in fashion. Using the term \"squaw\" to name the dresses evoked a connection to Native American culture. In addition, the Native American roots of the design made the dresses seem like uniquely \"American\" clothing items. The dress also became synonymous with the Southwest.\n\nThe squaw dress started out as a trend in the American Southwest in the 1940s and went nationwide in the 1950s. The first designers of the squaw dress are unknown, however designers such as Dolores Gonzales and Cele Peterson were selling dresses they called \"squaw Dresses\" by 1948. Bill and Elizabeth Macey who owned a clothing manufacturing plant called the Arizona Shirt Company, created a design for the squaw dress as well. The Maceys' design was considered \"smart,\" but authentic, according to \"The Arizona Republic\". George Fine who owned Georgie of Arizona was another major creator of the dresses. Lloyd Kiva New, a Cherokee designer, also created squaw dresses. Eventually J.C. Penney, Woolworth's and Neiman Marcus were selling versions of the squaw dress. In 1954, Gimble's department store in Philadelphia held a fashion show where \"Princess Red Rock\" modeled the dress on the runway and the store sold versions of the dress. Women such as Mamie Eisenhower, Pat Nixon, Cyd Charisse and Elsa Martinelli were seen in these dresses. \n\nSquaw dresses went out of fashion nationally by 1960, but remained popular in the Southwest United States and also in square dancing and rodeos. When the style was revisited in later decades, the dresses were labeled as \"Western wear\" and given new names. These dresses are today more often called patio or fiesta dresses.\n\n\nBecause the squaw dress appropriates from various different Indigenous people's clothing and because of the use of the word \"squaw,\" there were people who were uncomfortable with the fashion. Designer Dolores Gonzales admitted that she had taken the idea for the design from Native American women's clothing. In a 1954 article in \"The Arizona Daily Star\", the dresses were described as \"What was once worn proudly by Indian squaws is now being worn across the country by many women.\" Anthropologist Adelaide Law believed that the dresses were blatant ploys to cash in on \"tourist trade.\" Curator Frederick H. Douglas, who was known for his early exhibits of Native American fashion, felt that using the name \"squaw\" was disrespectful. Around the same time the dresses went out of fashion in the 1960s, the Native American community began to decry the use of the word \"squaw,\" which was seen as derogatory. Modern use of the word \"squaw\" to describe the dress is seen as culturally insensitive.\n\n"}
{"id": "11220590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11220590", "title": "The War on Democracy", "text": "The War on Democracy\n\nThe War on Democracy is a 2007 documentary film directed by the British filmmakers Christopher Martin and John Pilger, who also wrote the narration. Focusing on the political situations in nations of Latin America, the film criticizes both the United States' intervention in foreign countries' domestic politics and its \"War on Terrorism\". The film was first released in the United Kingdom on June 15, 2007.\n\nThe film was produced over a two-year period. Carl Deal, chief archivist on the Michael Moore films \"Fahrenheit 9/11\" and \"Bowling for Columbine,\" provided the archive footage used in the film. It is mastered in high-definition video.\n\n\"The War on Democracy\" was screened at both the 2007 Cannes Film Festival and the Galway Film Festival. The film was sold to distributors Lionsgate for distribution in the U.K. and Hopscotch distribution in Australia and New Zealand. Pre-release screening took place at two Fopp locations on June 12, 2007, including one that was followed by a question and answer session with co-director John Pilger.\n\nPeter Bradshaw wrote in \"The Guardian\":\nAndrew Billen wrote in \"The Times\":\nJames Walton in \"The Daily Telegraph\" thought that while \"Pilger stressed that Venezuela's potential utopia is under threat\", he \"made exactly the same claims for Chavez that he was making for the Sandinistas in Nicaragua\" in the 1980s. In Pilger's account of US involvement in Latin America, Walton wrote, \"while this was the most familiar section of the programme, it was also the most powerful and persuasive – because, once he was attacking his baddies, Pilger duly seemed on more solid ground. His recital, pretty polished by now, included chapter and verse on American involvement in torture, massacres and terrorism. He exposed (again) \"the epic lie\" that this was done for the sake of democracy\".\n\n\"The War on Democracy\" won the One World Media TV Documentary Award in 2008.\n\n\"The War on Democracy\" grossed $199,500 at the box office in Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7476016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7476016", "title": "Tu'i Pulotu", "text": "Tu'i Pulotu\n\nThe Tu'i Pulotu is believed to be the head of an ancient group of people that settled in Pulotu (Fiji) during the Lapita period (2500 BC to 3500 BC.)\n\nThe Island of Pulotu is an island located in Fiji, north-west of Tongatapu. It is referred to in Tongan oral traditions as \"the motherland\" or \"place of origin\". It is there that some believed that Tongan culture and its people developed and evolved out of the ancient Austronesian/Lapita culture (c. 1600 BCE - c. 500 BCE) that migrated from south east Asia through Taiwan, the Philippines, PNG, New Caledonia, Vanuatu and Fiji about 8000 BC.\n"}
{"id": "25919029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25919029", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 427", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 427\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 427, adopted on May 3, 1978, after considering a letter by the Secretary-General, the Council decided to increase the strength of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) from 4,000 to 6,000 troops.\n\nWhile noting that some Israeli troops had withdrawn from Lebanon, it asked Israel to complete its withdrawal without further delay. The resolution went on to condemen all attacks by both parties on the UNIFIL peacekeeping force and demanded respect for the force.\n\nThe resolution was adopted by 12 votes to none; Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union abstained while the People's Republic of China did not participate in voting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11119616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11119616", "title": "Victorian masculinity", "text": "Victorian masculinity\n\nDuring the long reign of Queen Victoria over the United Kingdom from 1836 to 1901, there were certain social expectations that the separate genders were expected to adhere to. The study of Victorian masculinity is based on the assumption that \"the construction of male consciousness must be seen as historically specific.\"\nThe concept of Victorian masculinity is extremely diverse, since it was influenced by numerous aspects and factors such as domesticity, economy, gender roles, imperialism, manners, religion, sporting competition, and much more. Some of these aspects seem to be quite naturally related to one another, while others seem profoundly non-relational. For the males, this included a vast amount of pride in their work, a protectiveness over their wives, and an aptitude for good social behaviour.\nThe concept of Victorian masculinity is a topic of interest in the context of Cultural Studies with a special emphasis on Gender studies. The topic is of much current interest in the areas of history, literary criticism, religious studies, and sociology. Those virtues that survived until today are of special interest to the researchers: the 'dominance of the Western male'.\n\nThe study of Victorian masculinity is based on the assumption that \"the construction of male consciousness must be seen as historically specific.\" As a result, men increasingly formed secret societies, such as the Masons and the Oddfellows. The Victorians saw manliness as good, a form of control over maleness, which was brutish.\n\nChristianity contributed a lot to the Victorian concept of masculinity. The real Victorian man was to be spiritual and a faithful believer. Hence, the husband and father was considered to be the pater familias with extensive power. As the head of the household, his duty was not only to rule, but also to protect his wife and children.\n\nLike in the private sphere, men of the Victorian era were equally active in the public sphere (in contrast to women). Work was crucial in order to achieve a fully masculine status. This was especially true for the middle-class man; male members of the aristocracy were seen as idle because they generally did not work. By being active in enterprise, men fulfilled their duty as breadwinners in the sense that they had to provide for their families. Since home and work were perceived as very separate spheres, working at home was a delicate matter, for example for writers, who had to fear their masculine status being threatened. Besides work, Victorian men were also active in the public sphere of clubs and taverns, indulging in homosociality.\nWith the beginning of the second half of the 19th century the picture of the ideal of manliness started to shift. Due to publications such as Charles Darwin's \"The Origin of Species\" (1859) and Friedrich Nietzsche saying \"God is dead!\" (1882) the main focus in the concept of masculinity shifted from a spiritual focus on religion towards a commitment to muscle: 'muscular Christianity' was created. At the same time male domesticity decreased.\n\nThe development towards a focus on muscle manifested itself in the belief that in order to educate one's mind one had to educate one's body. This assumption has its roots in the rise of natural science and especially biology. Thus, a fascination with health led to a sports and game playing mania, which was primarily acted out through the public school system for boys. The athlete was the new hero of society. This, according to E. M. Forster, then led to \"well-developed bodies, fairly developed minds, and undeveloped hearts\". Another reason for such drills was that by the end of the 19th century the British Empire was perceived to be in danger and athletic public school boys made good recruits.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century the ideal of Victorian manliness became increasingly defined by imperialism because the subordination of non-western cultures was in its heyday in Britain. Thus, part of the concept of masculinity became military and patriotic virtue, which defined the ideal man as courageous and enduring like hunters, adventurers, and pioneers, all of whom were profoundly self-sufficient and independent and had broad scientific knowledge. This orientation towards hardiness and endurance was reflected by a change in clothing as well: rich colors and materials were discouraged in favor of dark colors, straight cuts, and stiff materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "344699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344699", "title": "Wilhelm von Giesebrecht", "text": "Wilhelm von Giesebrecht\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm von Giesebrecht (5 March 1814 – 17 December 1889) was a German historian.\n\nHe was born in Berlin, the son of Karl Giesebrecht (died 1832), and a nephew of the poet Ludwig Giesebrecht (1792–1873).\n\nHe studied under Leopold von Ranke, and his first important work, \"Geschichte Ottos II.\", was contributed to Ranke's \"Jahrbücher des deutschen Reichs unter dem sächsischen Hause\" (Berlin, 1837–1840). In 1841 he published his \"Jahrbücher des Klosters Altaich\", a reconstruction of the lost \"Annales Altahenses\", a medieval source of which fragments only were known to be extant, and these were obscured in other chronicles. The brilliance of this performance was shown in 1867, when a copy of the original chronicle was found, and it was seen that Giesebrecht's text was substantially correct.\n\nIn the meantime he had been appointed \"Oberlehrer\" in the Joachimsthaler Gymnasium in Berlin; had paid a visit to Italy, and as a result of his researches there had published \"De litterarum studiis apud halos primis mediiaevi seculis\" (Berlin, 1845), a study upon the survival of culture in Italian cities during the Middle Ages, and also several critical essays upon the sources for the early history of the popes. In 1851 appeared his translation of the \"Historiae of Gregory of Tours\", which is the standard German translation.\n\nFour years later appeared the first volume of his great work, \"Geschichte der deutschen Kaiserzeit\", the fifth volume of which was published in 1888. This work was the first in which the results of the scientific methods of research were thrown open to the world at large. Largeness of style and brilliance of portrayal were joined to an absolute mastery of the sources in a way hitherto unachieved by any German historian.\n\nGiesebrecht's history appeared when the new German empire was in the making, and became popular owing both to its patriotic tone and its intrinsic merits. In 1857 he went to Königsberg as professor ordinarius, and in 1862 succeeded Heinrich von Sybel as professor of history in the University of Munich. The Bavarian government honoured him in various ways, and he died at Munich on 17 December 1889.\n\nIn addition to the works already mentioned, Giesebrecht published a good monograph on Arnold of Brescia (Munich, 1873), a collection of essays under the title \"Deutsche Reden\" (Munich, 1881), and was an active member of the group of scholars who took over the direction of the \"Monumenta Germaniae historica\" in 1875. In 1895 Bernhard von Simson added a sixth volume to the \"Geschichte der deutschen Kaiserzeit\", thus bringing the work down to the death of Emperor Frederick I in 1190.\n"}
{"id": "58558897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58558897", "title": "Xanthicus", "text": "Xanthicus\n\nXanthicus is the name of the sixth month of the Macedonian calendar of the Seleucid Syrians. It corresponds with Nisan in the Jewish calendar or April in the Gregorian calendar.\n"}
{"id": "46492736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46492736", "title": "Yuma creation myth", "text": "Yuma creation myth\n\nThe Yuma creation myth comes from the Yuma people, or Quechan, living in Northern Arizona. The Yuma developed a pictographic system that were probably older than the Egyptian hieroglyphics. The early Yuma people probably worshiped in caves, and lots of pictographs show scenes from nature, trading and mythology. \nIn the beginning of the Creation myth of the Yuma, there was nothing but water. Then Kokomaht came up out of the water. Bakohtal was born out of the water too, but he was forever blind because of a lie Kokomaht told him. Kokomaht said, \"I opened my eyes when I was underwater.\" but this was a lie. Once the twins were born Bakohtal tried to create humans but they were not right. Instead of feet and hands they had lumps, but Bakohtal, being blind, thought it was perfect. However Kokomaht made a truly perfect being out of mud. He waved it four times toward the north and it stood on its feet. Then Kokomaht created the earth on top of the frog, Hanyi. Once he was finished and had made Komastam'hó, his son, he knew that his work was done, so he laid down on the earth and Hanyi sucked the breath out of him. Komashtam'hó made a sun and moon and smothered it with his spit, and told the people, \"Look this is the sun, it will give you warmth and peace.\" Before Komashtam'hó made a great flood, animals were people. Then Komashtam'hó ordered everybody to shave their hair.\n\nKomashtam'hó was displeased with the fact that the animal people did not look good with their hair cut, so he changed them into animals. However the newly formed animals were violent and dangerous so he sent a great flood. After a long time, Markohuvek, a person, asked Komashtam'hó why he was making a great flood. Komashtam'hó replied to Markohuvek that he was trying to protect the people from the newly formed animals. Markohuvek replied that gradually people would freeze to death since there wasn't any fire. So Komastam'hó made a great fire to evaporate the water. However he made it accidentally too hot and he was slightly burned. Komashtam'hó then took a giant pole and smashed the house of his father. Water welling from the house became the Colorado River. And in it swam fish, eels, and other water animals. These were the beings created by Bakotahl. As for Bakotahl, he lays under the earth, and when there is an earthquake, the Yuma say, \"It is the Blind Evil One stirring down below.\"\n"}
