{"id": "689881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=689881", "title": "Akademio de Esperanto", "text": "Akademio de Esperanto\n\nThe Akademio de Esperanto (AdE; English: Academy of Esperanto) is an independent body of language scholars who steward the evolution of the language Esperanto by keeping it consistent with \"Fundamento de Esperanto\" in accordance with the Declaration of Boulogne. Modeled somewhat after the Académie française, the Akademio was proposed by L. L. Zamenhof, the creator of Esperanto, at the first World Esperanto Congress, and was founded soon thereafter under the name \"Lingva Komitato\" (Language Committee). This Committee had a \"superior commission\" called the \"Akademio\". In 1948, within the framework of a general reorganization, the Language Committee and the Academy combined to form the Akademio de Esperanto.\n\nThe Akademio consists of 45 members and has a president, vice presidents, and a secretary. The corresponding address including e-mail is at the secretary. It is funded by a subsidy from the Universal Esperanto Association and by donations.\n\nMembers are elected by their peers for a period of nine years, with elections being held every three years for a third of the members. Following the last elections in February 2016, the Akademio de Esperanto consists of the following members:\n\n\nFormer members have included Gaston Waringhien, Rüdiger Eichholz, Jorge Camacho, Victor Sadler, Michel Duc-Goninaz, and William Auld (president, 1979–1983).\n\n"}
{"id": "38253859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38253859", "title": "Alma Jordan Library", "text": "Alma Jordan Library\n\nThe Alma Jordan Library at the University of the West Indies (UWI), Trinidad and Tobago, was named after UWI librarian Dr. Alma Jordan in 2012. The four-storied library is located on the St. Augustine Campus of the UWI. It is the largest of the libraries in the St Augustine Campus libraries network, with approximately 600,000 monographs, 31,000 e-books, 4,000 serial titles, 57,000 e-journal subscriptions and access to over 200 databases.\n\nThe Alma Jordan Library houses the Eric Williams Memorial Collection, which has been named to the UNESCO Memory of the World Register.\n\nThe library houses the minute books of the London Society of West India Planters and Merchants, a major anti-abolitionist organisation of the British West Indian plantocracy.\n\nOther libraries in the St Augustine Campus Libraries network include the Medical Sciences Library, the library at the School of Education, the Festival Library and Cultural Resource Centre, the library at the Centre for Language Learning, the library attached to the Institute of International Relations, the Republic Bank Library at the Arthur Lok Jack Graduate School of Business, the library of the National Herbarium of Trinidad and Tobago, the Library at the Hugh Wooding Law School, the Seismic Research Centre Library, the Patience-Theunissen Memorial Library located at Mount Saint Benedict and the Library at Roytec at the UWI School of Business and Applied Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "248388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=248388", "title": "Bachelor of Commerce", "text": "Bachelor of Commerce\n\nA Bachelor of Commerce (\"baccalaureates commercii\", abbreviated B.Com. or B.Comm.) is an undergraduate degree in commerce (or business) and related subjects, usually awarded in Canada, Australia, India, Ireland, New Zealand, Pakistan, South Africa and other Commonwealth countries; however, the degree is no longer offered in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Bachelor of Commerce degree is designed to provide students with a wide range of managerial skills, while building competence in a particular area of business (see aside). \nMost universities, therefore, plan the degree such that in addition to their major, students are exposed to general business principles, taking courses in accounting, finance, business management, human resources, marketing, and economics; some programs also require (business) statistics, (introductory) calculus and information systems. \nDepending on the institution, a formal academic major may or may not be established. Regardless, a Bachelor of Commerce degree requires students to take the majority of their courses in business-related subjects, including the aside, among others.\n\nFor a comparison with other business degrees, see Business education#Undergraduate education.\n\nThe Honours Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com. (Hons) or B.Comm. (Hons) or H.B.Com. or H.B.Comm.) is further advanced. It may consist of a four-year program or of a one-year program taken subsequent to a three-year Bachelor's degree. The degree requires additional academic courses to be completed with higher academic performance standards and may also require a researched thesis component; the one-year program is often focused exclusively on a single subject-area.\n\nThe Honours Bachelor of Commerce degree often serves as an abridgement (or entry requirement) between the undergraduate program and postgraduate programs, including the Master of Commerce (M.Com. or M.Comm.) and the Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees.\n\nThe curriculum generally lasts three years in Australia, New Zealand, India, Malta, South Africa, some parts of Canada and Hong Kong. The curriculum requires four years of study in the Republic of Ireland, the majority of Canada, Ghana, the Philippines and the Netherlands. In Nepal, the duration of the program can be three years.\n\nIn South Africa, New Zealand, Australia and some universities in India, the B.Com. (Hons) degree is considered an additional postgraduate qualification, whereas in Malta, an additional year of study is not considered a postgraduate qualification. In Pakistan, the B.Com. degree lasts two years, the B.Com. (Hons) degree lasts three years, and a four-year program leads to the BS (Hons) Commerce degree.\n\nThe Bachelor of Commerce degree was first offered at the University of Birmingham. The University's School of Commerce was founded by William Ashley, an Englishman from Oxford University, who was the first professor of Political Economy and Constitutional History in the Faculty of Arts at the University of Toronto. Ashley left Toronto in 1892, spent a few years at Harvard University, and then went back to England to the new University of Birmingham where he founded the School of Commerce. Ashley began the program which was the forerunner of many other B.Com. degree programs throughout the British Empire.\n\nEighteenth-century economists had divided the English economy into three sectors: agriculture, manufacturing, and commerce. Commerce included the transportation, marketing and financing of goods. The Birmingham program in Commerce included economic geography, economic history, general economics, modern languages, and accountancy.\n\nBachelor of Business & Information Technology (BBIT) http://www.ibitpu.edu.pk/\n"}
{"id": "18044290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18044290", "title": "Barry Zuckerman", "text": "Barry Zuckerman\n\nBarry S. Zuckerman is Professor and Chair of the Department of Pediatrics at Boston University School of Medicine/Boston Medical Center and co-founder of Reach Out and Read, a national childhood literacy program in the United States, founder of Medical-Legal partnership, co founder of Health Leads and Healthy Steps which has transformed pediatric care. He is the author of over 250 scientific publications addressing the importance of mothers health and well-being on children health starting during pregnancy. He served on the National Commission on Children and Carnegie Commission on young children. He has consulted for UNICEF in Turkey, Bangladesh and Serbia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41989581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41989581", "title": "Bhabatosh Datta", "text": "Bhabatosh Datta\n\nBhabatosh Datta (21 February 1911 – 11 January 1997) was a noted Indian economist, academic and writer. He taught at Chittagong College and later became Professor of Economics, Presidency College, Kolkata, where he later Emeritus Professor.\n\nIn 1990, he was awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award, by Government of India.\n\nDatta was born in Patna, Bihar to Hemendra Kishore Datta and Jogmaya Datta. At the time, his father was a professor of Chemistry at Bihar National College, Patna. Thereafter, he did his schooling at various places, including Daulatpur in Khulna district, Mymensingh followed by Dhaka, now in Bangladesh. At his Dhaka school, he edited the school magazine along with fellow student Buddhadeb Ghosh, who went on to become a noted poet. He completed his schooling from Jagannath College Dhaka, and went on to earn B.A. (Hons.) in Economics and Political Science and M.A. Economics from Presidency College, Kolkata.\n\nHe started his career by working briefly at Chittagong College, and Burdwan Raj College, ultimately his received an appointment at Ripon College, Kolkata, later known as Surendranath College. Subsequently, he worked at Islamia College in Kolkata, later renamed Maulana Azad College. In 1948, he went to England on a study leave to submit his doctoral dissertation at London School of Economics after only two years. His dissertation was published in Calcutta as \"The Economics of Industrialization\" (1952). After his returned in 1952, he joined the Presidency College, Kolkata, now Presidency University as Professor of Economics. The following year, he joined IMF as chief of South Asia division, however he returned to India in 1956, and rejoined Presidency College, where he continued to work till his retirement in 1962 as Head of the Department. Thereafter, he remained Emeritus Professor at the college, and started working in state education ministry, as he became Director of Public Instruction, Department of General Education and in 1965, Secretary of Education, Government of West Bengal.\n\nHe also remained a member of Fourth Finance Commission of India formed in 1964, and also remained a member of the first working committee of Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi, Kolkata.\n\nHe married Amala Basu in 1939, she died in 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "38335375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38335375", "title": "Blacklist (employment)", "text": "Blacklist (employment)\n\nIn employment, a blacklist or blacklisting refers to denying people employment for either political reasons (due to actual or suspected political affiliation), due to a history of trade union activity, or due to a history of whistleblowing, for example on safety or corruption issues. Blacklisting may be done by states (denying employment in state entities) as well as by private companies.\n\nThe first published reference to blacklisting of an employee dates from 1774. This became a significant employment issue in American mining towns and company towns, where blacklisting could mean a complete loss of livelihood for workers who went on strike.\n\nThe 1901 Report of the Industrial Commission stated \"There was no doubt in the minds of workingmen of the existence of the blacklisting system, though it was practically impossible to obtain evidence of it.\" It cited a news report that in 1895 a former conductor on the Atlantic and Pacific Railroad committed suicide, having been out of work ever since a strike: \"Wherever he went the blacklist was ahead of him\". \n\nThe National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 gave employees the right to organize and bargain collectively. and numerous strikes occurred until the Act was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1935, and organized labor sought relief from employers who had able to blacklist union members.\nThough the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 outlawed punitive blacklists against employees who supported trade unions or criticised their employers, the practice remained common. A U.S. Department of Labor and Bureau of Labor Statistics report published in 1938 noted that \"Closely related to discrimination and the employer's right to discharge is the blacklist.\" Employees who had been fired had no recourse to legal action against the employer, but \"most States have statutes which make criminal the establishment of a blacklist.\"\n\nThe Taft-Hartley Act of 1947 made amendments which sustained blacklisting by affirming the right of employers to be anti-union, and by requiring trade union leaders to make loyalty oaths which had the same effect as the Hollywood blacklist.\n\nIn American history, one of the most famous examples of blacklisting stemmed from an investigation launched in 1947 by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) into Communist influence on the motion picture industry. The first in the industry to be blacklisted, as a result of their refusal to provide evidence to HUAC, were a group known as the Hollywood Ten, most of them screenwriters, who had at one time or another been members of the American Communist Party. Today, the best known of the Hollywood Ten are the writers Ring Lardner, Jr. and Dalton Trumbo, who was barred from openly working in Hollywood for over a dozen years as a result of his defiance of HUAC. (He continued to work under pseudonyms and \"fronts\" until the revelation in 1960 that he had written the script for \"Spartacus\".) Actor John Garfield was one of the more famous Hollywood performers to have been blacklisted by major American film studios as a direct result of HUAC investigations and hearings.\n\nBlacklisting sometimes consisted of guilt by association, as in the case of radio actress Madeline Lee. Both Lee and her husband, actor Jack Gilford, were blacklisted after it was revealed that Lee had given a party in her house to raise funds for a group later labeled as a Communist front. Though there was no suspicion that she had ever been involved in any putatively \"subversive\" political causes (and though her real name was spelled differently), Lee became the target of thousands of protest phone calls to her network. Another actress, Camila Ashland, who appeared on the television show \"Danger\", physically resembled Madeline Lee; though she had no political past, her network too became the target of protest phone calls. Madeline Pierce, a 20-year veteran of radio, who again had no political past, was also ultimately blacklisted.\n\nOn October 16, 2008, Capitol West Appraisers filed a class action lawsuit against Countrywide Financial Corp. (now owned by Bank of America) alleging Countrywide blacklisted appraisers who refused to appraise real estate at inflated prices.\n\nIn Capitol West v. Countrywide Financial Corp., Capitol West Appraisals alleges Countrywide pressured appraisers to set the value of a property at the selling price rather than setting the value based on an inspection of the property and comparable market prices in the area as required by appraisal standards. Misrepresenting the value of a property allowed Countrywide to lend more money to more buyers at higher risks with less collateral. Countrywide could then make more money off the loans by selling them on secondary markets as mortgage backed securities.\n\nAppraisers who refused to misrepresent property values were put in a \"do not use\" or \"Field Review List\" data base, in essence a blacklist. When an appraisal was submitted by an appraiser on the \"do not use\" database it was flagged for \"field review\". A field review is a review of the original appraisal. All field reviews were conducted by Landsafe, a subsidiary of Countrywide, who would consistently shoot holes in any appraisal from a blacklisted appraiser. Mortgage Brokers were then required to get a second appraisal from another appraiser. Since independent mortgage brokers did not want to pay for two appraisals and did not know which lender they would ultimately use, and since Countrywide was the biggest home mortgage lender in the U.S., brokers simply would not use anyone on the Field Review List.\n\nAs of Aug. 28, 2008, more than 2,000 names were on the Field Review List, Countrywide's blacklist, which it sends to mortgage brokers who hire appraisers across the United States.\n\nBlacklisting is today illegal in the UK under the Data Protection Act and the Employment Relations Act 1999 (Blacklists) Regulations 2010.\n\nTrade union members, and workers who raised health and safety and other concerns in the United Kingdom have been blacklisted by employers. They used the services of the Economic League, which operated between 1919 and 1993, and The Consulting Association, which, until it was closed down in February 2009, took over this role within the UK construction industry. However the Information Commissioner's Office was subsequently criticised for failing to take further punitive action against the employers using the blacklist, or carrying out any further investigation.\n\nHowever, the Scottish Affairs Select Committee subsequently began calling for evidence in relation to blacklisting, producing an interim report in March 2013 and a final report in 2015. While acknowledging that some positive steps had been taken, it said \"many questions in relation to the practice of blacklisting remain unanswered\", and recommended a full public inquiry as a matter of priority.\n\nBlacklisting was used in Norway before the Second World War. Well-known blacklisted trade unionists include Thorolf Bugge.\n\nIn the Soviet Union and Eastern Bloc, individuals could be blacklisted for political reasons, particularly to deny them employment in their chosen profession. \n\n"}
{"id": "7696505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696505", "title": "Celebrating the Third Place", "text": "Celebrating the Third Place\n\nCelebrating The Third Place, subtitled: \"Inspiring Stories About The Great Good Places at the Heart of Our Communities\", is a 2001 book by Ray Oldenburg. The book is a collage of 19 essays which tell stories of active third places in the heart of communities.\n\n(New York: Marlowe & Company, 2001) \n"}
{"id": "2167344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2167344", "title": "Chris Adrian", "text": "Chris Adrian\n\nChris Adrian (born 1970) is an American author. Adrian's writing styles in short stories vary greatly; from modernist realism to pronounced lyrical allegory. His novels both tend toward surrealism, having mostly realistic characters experience fantastic circumstances. He has written three novels: \"Gob's Grief\", \"The Children's Hospital\", and \"The Great Night\". In 2008, he published \"A Better Angel\", a collection of short stories. His short fiction has also appeared in \"The Paris Review, Zoetrope, Ploughshares, McSweeney's, The New Yorker, The Best American Short Stories, and Story\". He was one of 11 fiction writers to receive a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2009. He lives in San Francisco.\n\nAdrian completed his bachelor's degree in English from the University of Florida in 1993. He received his M.D. from Eastern Virginia Medical School in 2001. He completed a pediatric residency at the University of California, San Francisco, was a student at Harvard Divinity School, and a fellow of pediatric hematology/oncology at UCSF in 2011. He is also a graduate of the Iowa Writers' Workshop. Currently, Adrian serves as the Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at Columbia University Medical Center.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5823", "title": "Confucius", "text": "Confucius\n\nConfucius ( ; 551–479 BC) was a Chinese teacher, editor, politician, and philosopher of the Spring and Autumn period of Chinese history.\n\nThe philosophy of Confucius, also known as Confucianism, emphasized personal and governmental morality, correctness of social relationships, justice and sincerity. His followers competed successfully with many other schools during the Hundred Schools of Thought era only to be suppressed in favor of the Legalists during the Qin dynasty. Following the victory of Han over Chu after the collapse of Qin, Confucius's thoughts received official sanction and were further developed into a system known in the West as Neo-Confucianism, and later New Confucianism (Modern Neo-Confucianism).\n\nConfucius is traditionally credited with having authored or edited many of the Chinese classic texts including all of the Five Classics, but modern scholars are cautious of attributing specific assertions to Confucius himself. Aphorisms concerning his teachings were compiled in the \"Analects\", but only many years after his death.\n\nConfucius's principles have commonality with Chinese tradition and belief. He championed strong family loyalty, ancestor veneration, and respect of elders by their children and of husbands by their wives, recommending family as a basis for ideal government. He espoused the well-known principle \"Do not do unto others what you do not want done to yourself\", the Golden Rule. He is also a traditional deity in Daoism.\n\nConfucius is widely considered as one of the most important and influential individuals in shaping human history. His teaching and philosophy greatly impacted people around the world and remains influential today.\n\nThe name \"Confucius\" is a Latinized form of the Mandarin Chinese \"Kǒng Fūzǐ\" (, meaning \"Master Kong\"), and was coined in the late 16th century by the early Jesuit missionaries to China. Confucius's clan name was \"Kǒng\" (; Old Chinese: ), and his given name was \"Qiū\" (; OC: ). His \"capping name\", given upon reaching adulthood and by which he would have been known to all but his older family members, was \"Zhòngní\" (; OC: *), the \"Zhòng\" indicating that he was the second son in his family.\nIt is thought that Confucius was born on September 28, 551BC, in the district of Zou () near present-day Qufu, China. The area was notionally controlled by the kings of Zhou but effectively independent under the local lords of Lu. His father Kong He () or Shuliang He (叔梁紇) was an elderly commandant of the local Lu garrison. His ancestry traced back through the dukes of Song to the Shang dynasty which had preceded the Zhou. Traditional accounts of Confucius's life relate that Kong He's grandfather had migrated the family from Song to Lu.\n\nKong He died when Confucius was three years old, and Confucius was raised by his mother Yan Zhengzai () in poverty. His mother would later die at less than 40 years of age. At age 19 he married Qiguan (亓官), and a year later the couple had their first child, Kong Li (孔鯉). Qiguan and Confucius would later have two daughters together, one of whom is thought to have died as a child.\n\nConfucius was educated at schools for commoners, where he studied and learned the Six Arts.\n\nConfucius was born into the class of \"shi\" (士), between the aristocracy and the common people. He is said to have worked in various government jobs during his early 20s, and as a bookkeeper and a caretaker of sheep and horses, using the proceeds to give his mother a proper burial. When his mother died, Confucius (aged 23) is said to have mourned for three years, as was the tradition.\n\nIn Confucius's time, the state of Lu was headed by a ruling ducal house. Under the duke were three aristocratic families, whose heads bore the title of viscount and held hereditary positions in the Lu bureaucracy. The Ji family held the position \"Minister over the Masses\", who was also the \"Prime Minister\"; the Meng family held the position \"Minister of Works\"; and the Shu family held the position \"Minister of War\". In the winter of 505 BC, Yang Hu—a retainer of the Ji family—rose up in rebellion and seized power from the Ji family. However, by the summer of 501 BC, the three hereditary families had succeeded in expelling Yang Hu from Lu. By then, Confucius had built up a considerable reputation through his teachings, while the families came to see the value of proper conduct and righteousness, so they could achieve loyalty to a legitimate government. Thus, that year (501 BC), Confucius came to be appointed to the minor position of governor of a town. Eventually, he rose to the position of Minister of Crime.\n\nConfucius desired to return the authority of the state to the duke by dismantling the fortifications of the city—strongholds belonging to the three families. This way, he could establish a centralized government. However, Confucius relied solely on diplomacy as he had no military authority himself. In 500 BC, Hou Fan—the governor of Hou—revolted against his lord of the Shu family. Although the Meng and Shu families unsuccessfully besieged Hou, a loyalist official rose up with the people of Hou and forced Hou Fan to flee to the Qi state. The situation may have been in favor for Confucius as this likely made it possible for Confucius and his disciples to convince the aristocratic families to dismantle the fortifications of their cities. Eventually, after a year and a half, Confucius and his disciples succeeded in convincing the Shu family to raze the walls of Hou, the Ji family in razing the walls of Bi, and the Meng family in razing the walls of Cheng. First, the Shu family led an army towards their city Hou and tore down its walls in 498 BC.\n\nSoon thereafter, Gongshan Furao or Buniu, a retainer of the Ji family, revolted and took control of the forces at Bi. He immediately launched an attack and entered the capital Lu. Earlier, Gongshan had approached Confucius to join him, which Confucius considered. Even though he disapproved the use of a violent revolution, the Ji family dominated the Lu state force for generations and had exiled the previous duke. Although he wanted the opportunity to put his principles into practice, Confucius gave up on this idea in the end. Creel (1949) states that, unlike the rebel Yang Hu before him, Gongshan may have sought to destroy the three hereditary families and restore the power of the duke. However, Dubs (1946) is of the view that Gongshan was encouraged by Viscount Ji Huan to invade the Lu capital in an attempt to avoid dismantling the Bi fortified walls. Whatever the situation may have been, Gongshan was considered an upright man who continued to defend the state of Lu, even after he was forced to flee.\n\nDuring the revolt by Gongshan, Zhong You () had managed to keep the duke and the three viscounts together at the court. Zhong You was one of the disciples of Confucius and Confucius had arranged for him to be given the position of governor by the Ji family. When Confucius heard of the raid, he requested that Viscount Ji Huan allow the duke and his court to retreat to a stronghold on his palace grounds. Thereafter, the heads of the three families and the duke retreated to the Ji's palace complex and ascended the Wuzi Terrace. Confucius ordered two officers to lead an assault against the rebels. At least one of the two officers was a retainer of the Ji family, but they were unable to refuse the orders while in the presence of the duke, viscounts, and court. The rebels were pursued and defeated at Gu. Immediately after the revolt was defeated, the Ji family razed the Bi city walls to the ground.\n\nThe attackers retreated after realizing that they would have to become rebels against the state and their lord. Through Confucius's actions, the Bi officials had inadvertently revolted against their own lord, thus forcing Viscount Ji Huan's hand in having to dismantle the walls of Bi (as it could have harbored such rebels) or confess to instigating the event by going against proper conduct and righteousness as an official. Dubs (1949) suggests that the incident brought to light Confucius's foresight, practical political ability, and insight into human character.\n\nWhen it was time to dismantle the city walls of the Meng family, the governor was reluctant to have his city walls torn down and convinced the head of the Meng family not to do so. The \"Zuo Zhuan\" recalls that the governor advised against razing the walls to the ground as he said that it made Cheng vulnerable to the Qi state and cause the destruction of the Meng family. Even though Viscount Meng Yi gave his word not to interfere with an attempt, he went back on his earlier promise to dismantle the walls.\n\nLater in 498 BC, Duke Ding personally went with an army to lay siege to Cheng in an attempt to raze its walls to the ground, but he did not succeed. Thus, Confucius could not achieve the idealistic reforms that he wanted including restoration of the legitimate rule of the duke. He had made powerful enemies within the state, especially with Viscount Ji Huan, due to his successes so far. According to accounts in the \"Zuo Zhuan\" and \"Shiji\", Confucius departed his homeland in 497 BC after his support for the failed attempt of dismantling the fortified city walls of the powerful Ji, Meng, and Shu families. He left the state of Lu without resigning, remaining in self-exile and unable to return as long as Viscount Ji Huan was alive.\n\nThe \"Shiji\" stated that the neighboring Qi state was worried that Lu was becoming too powerful while Confucius was involved in the government of the Lu state. According to this account, Qi decided to sabotage Lu's reforms by sending 100 good horses and 80 beautiful dancing girls to the duke of Lu. The duke indulged himself in pleasure and did not attend to official duties for three days. Confucius was disappointed and resolved to leave Lu and seek better opportunities, yet to leave at once would expose the misbehavior of the duke and therefore bring public humiliation to the ruler Confucius was serving. Confucius therefore waited for the duke to make a lesser mistake. Soon after, the duke neglected to send to Confucius a portion of the sacrificial meat that was his due according to custom, and Confucius seized upon this pretext to leave both his post and the Lu state.\n\nAfter Confucius's resignation, he began a long journey or set of journeys around the principality states of north-east and central China including Wey, Song, Zheng, Cao, Chu, Qi, Chen, and Cai (and a failed attempt to go to Jin). At the courts of these states, he expounded his political beliefs but did not see them implemented.\n\nAccording to the \"Zuo Zhuan\", Confucius returned home to his native Lu when he was 68, after he was invited to do so by Ji Kangzi, the chief minister of Lu. The \"Analects\" depict him spending his last years teaching 72 or 77 disciples and transmitting the old wisdom via a set of texts called the Five Classics.\n\nDuring his return, Confucius sometimes acted as an advisor to several government officials in Lu, including Ji Kangzi, on matters including governance and crime.\n\nBurdened by the loss of both his son and his favorite disciples, he died at the age of 71 or 72. He died from natural causes. Confucius was buried in Kong Lin cemetery which lies in the historical part of Qufu in the Shandong Province. The original tomb erected there in memory of Confucius on the bank of the Sishui River had the shape of an axe. In addition, it has a raised brick platform at the front of the memorial for offerings such as sandalwood incense and fruit.\n\nAlthough Confucianism is often followed in a religious manner by the Chinese, many argue that its values are secular and that it is, therefore, less a religion than a secular morality. Proponents argue, however, that despite the secular nature of Confucianism's teachings, it is based on a worldview that is religious. Confucianism discusses elements of the afterlife and views concerning Heaven, but it is relatively unconcerned with some spiritual matters often considered essential to religious thought, such as the nature of souls. However, Confucius is said to have believed in astrology, saying: \"Heaven sends down its good or evil symbols and wise men act accordingly\".\n\nIn the \"Analects\", Confucius presents himself as a \"transmitter who invented nothing\". He puts the greatest emphasis on the importance of study, and it is the Chinese character for study () that opens the text. Far from trying to build a systematic or formalist theory, he wanted his disciples to master and internalize older classics, so that their deep thought and thorough study would allow them to relate the moral problems of the present to past political events (as recorded in the \"Annals\") or the past expressions of commoners' feelings and noblemen's reflections (as in the poems of the \"Book of Odes\").\n\nOne of the deepest teachings of Confucius may have been the superiority of personal exemplification over explicit rules of behavior. His moral teachings emphasized self-cultivation, emulation of moral exemplars, and the attainment of skilled judgment rather than knowledge of rules. Confucian ethics may, therefore, be considered a type of virtue ethics. His teachings rarely rely on reasoned argument, and ethical ideals and methods are conveyed indirectly, through allusion, innuendo, and even tautology. His teachings require examination and context to be understood. A good example is found in this famous anecdote:\n\nBy not asking about the horses, Confucius demonstrates that the sage values human beings over property; readers are led to reflect on whether their response would follow Confucius's and to pursue self-improvement if it would not have. Confucius serves not as an all-powerful deity or a universally true set of abstract principles, but rather the ultimate model for others. For these reasons, according to many commentators, Confucius's teachings may be considered a Chinese example of humanism.\n\nOne of his teachings was a variant of the Golden Rule, sometimes called the \"Silver Rule\" owing to its negative form:\n\nOften overlooked in Confucian ethics are the virtues to the self: sincerity and the cultivation of knowledge. Virtuous action towards others begins with virtuous and sincere thought, which begins with knowledge. A virtuous disposition without knowledge is susceptible to corruption, and virtuous action without sincerity is not true righteousness. Cultivating knowledge and sincerity is also important for one's own sake; the superior person loves learning for the sake of learning and righteousness for the sake of righteousness.\n\nThe Confucian theory of ethics as exemplified in \"lǐ\" () is based on three important conceptual aspects of life: (a) ceremonies associated with sacrifice to ancestors and deities of various types, (b) social and political institutions, and (c) the etiquette of daily behavior. It was believed by some that \"lǐ\" originated from the heavens, but Confucius stressed the development of \"lǐ\" through the actions of sage leaders in human history. His discussions of \"lǐ\" seem to redefine the term to refer to all actions committed by a person to build the ideal society, rather than those simply conforming with canonical standards of ceremony.\n\nIn the early Confucian tradition, \"lǐ\" was doing the proper thing at the proper time, balancing between maintaining existing norms to perpetuate an ethical social fabric, and violating them in order to accomplish ethical good. Training in the \"lǐ\" of past sages cultivates in people virtues that include ethical judgment about when \"lǐ\" must be adapted in light of situational contexts.\n\nIn Confucianism, the concept of \"li\" is closely related to \"yì\" (), which is based upon the idea of reciprocity. \"Yì\" can be translated as righteousness, though it may simply mean what is ethically best to do in a certain context. The term contrasts with action done out of self-interest. While pursuing one's own self-interest is not necessarily bad, one would be a better, more righteous person if one's life was based upon following a path designed to enhance the greater good. Thus an outcome of \"yì\" is doing the right thing for the right reason.\n\nJust as action according to \"lǐ\" should be adapted to conform to the aspiration of adhering to \"yì\", so \"yì\" is linked to the core value of \"rén\" ().\"Rén\" consists of 5 basic virtues: seriousness, generosity, sincerity, diligence and kindness. \"Rén\" is the virtue of perfectly fulfilling one's responsibilities toward others, most often translated as \"benevolence\" or \"humaneness\"; translator Arthur Waley calls it \"Goodness\" (with a capital \"G\"), and other translations that have been put forth include \"authoritativeness\" and \"selflessness.\" Confucius's moral system was based upon empathy and understanding others, rather than divinely ordained rules. To develop one's spontaneous responses of \"rén\" so that these could guide action intuitively was even better than living by the rules of \"yì\". Confucius asserts that virtue is a mean between extremes. For example, the properly generous person gives the right amount—not too much and not too little.\n\nConfucius's political thought is based upon his ethical thought. He argued that the best government is one that rules through \"rites\" (\"lǐ\") and people's natural morality, and \"not\" by using bribery and coercion. He explained that this is one of the most important analects: \"If the people be led by laws, and uniformity sought to be given them by punishments, they will try to avoid the punishment, but have no sense of shame. If they be led by virtue, and uniformity sought to be given them by the rules of propriety, they will have the sense of the shame, and moreover will become good.\" (Translated by James Legge) in the Great Learning (). This \"sense of shame\" is an internalisation of duty, where the punishment precedes the evil action, instead of following it in the form of laws as in Legalism.\n\nConfucius looked nostalgically upon earlier days, and urged the Chinese, particularly those with political power, to model themselves on earlier examples. In times of division, chaos, and endless wars between feudal states, he wanted to restore the Mandate of Heaven () that could unify the \"world\" (, \"all under Heaven\") and bestow peace and prosperity on the people. Because his vision of personal and social perfections was framed as a revival of the ordered society of earlier times, Confucius is often considered a great proponent of conservatism, but a closer look at what he proposes often shows that he used (and perhaps twisted) past institutions and rites to push a new political agenda of his own: a revival of a unified royal state, whose rulers would succeed to power on the basis of their moral merits instead of lineage. These would be rulers devoted to their people, striving for personal and social perfection, and such a ruler would spread his own virtues to the people instead of imposing proper behavior with laws and rules.\n\nConfucius did not believe in the concept of \"democracy\", which is itself an Athenian concept unknown in ancient China, but could be interpreted by Confucius's principles recommending against individuals electing their own political leaders to govern them, or that anyone is capable of self-government. He expressed fears that the masses lacked the intellect to make decisions for themselves, and that, in his view, since not everyone is created equal, not everyone has a right of self-government.\n\nWhile he supported the idea of government ruling by a virtuous king, his ideas contained a number of elements to limit the power of rulers. He argued for representing truth in language, and honesty was of paramount importance. Even in facial expression, truth must always be represented. Confucius believed that if a ruler is to lead correctly, by action, that orders would be unnecessary in that others will follow the proper actions of their ruler. In discussing the relationship between a king and his subject (or a father and his son), he underlined the need to give due respect to superiors. This demanded that the subordinates must advise their superiors if the superiors are considered to be taking a course of action that is wrong. Confucius believed in ruling by example, if you lead correctly, orders by force or punishment are not necessary.\n\nConfucius's teachings were later turned into an elaborate set of rules and practices by his numerous disciples and followers, who organized his teachings into the Analects. Confucius's disciples and his only grandson, Zisi, continued his philosophical school after his death. These efforts spread Confucian ideals to students who then became officials in many of the royal courts in China, thereby giving Confucianism the first wide-scale test of its dogma.\n\nTwo of Confucius's most famous later followers emphasized radically different aspects of his teachings. In the centuries after his death, Mencius () and Xun Zi () both composed important teachings elaborating in different ways on the fundamental ideas associated with Confucius. Mencius (4th century BC) articulated the innate goodness in human beings as a source of the ethical intuitions that guide people towards \"rén\", \"yì\", and \"lǐ\", while Xun Zi (3rd century BC) underscored the realistic and materialistic aspects of Confucian thought, stressing that morality was inculcated in society through tradition and in individuals through training. In time, their writings, together with the \"Analects\" and other core texts came to constitute the philosophical corpus of Confucianism.\n\nThis realignment in Confucian thought was parallel to the development of Legalism, which saw filial piety as self-interest and not a useful tool for a ruler to create an effective state. A disagreement between these two political philosophies came to a head in 223 BC when the Qin state conquered all of China. Li Si, Prime Minister of the Qin dynasty, convinced Qin Shi Huang to abandon the Confucians' recommendation of awarding fiefs akin to the Zhou Dynasty before them which he saw as being against to the Legalist idea of centralizing the state around the ruler. When the Confucian advisers pressed their point, Li Si had many Confucian scholars killed and their books burned—considered a huge blow to the philosophy and Chinese scholarship.\n\nUnder the succeeding Han and Tang dynasties, Confucian ideas gained even more widespread prominence. Under Wudi, the works of Confucius were made the official imperial philosophy and required reading for civil service examinations in 140 BC which was continued nearly unbroken until the end of the 19th century. As Mohism lost support by the time of the Han, the main philosophical contenders were Legalism, which Confucian thought somewhat absorbed, the teachings of Laozi, whose focus on more spiritual ideas kept it from direct conflict with Confucianism, and the new Buddhist religion, which gained acceptance during the Southern and Northern Dynasties era. Both Confucian ideas and Confucian-trained officials were relied upon in the Ming Dynasty and even the Yuan Dynasty, although Kublai Khan distrusted handing over provincial control to them.\n\nDuring the Song dynasty, the scholar Zhu Xi (AD 1130–1200) added ideas from Daoism and Buddhism into Confucianism. In his life, Zhu Xi was largely ignored, but not long after his death, his ideas became the new orthodox view of what Confucian texts actually meant. Modern historians view Zhu Xi as having created something rather different and call his way of thinking \"Neo-Confucianism\". Neo-Confucianism held sway in China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam until the 19th century.\nThe works of Confucius were first translated into European languages by Jesuit missionaries in the 16th century during the late Ming dynasty. The first known effort was by Michele Ruggieri, who returned to Italy in 1588 and carried on his translations while residing in Salerno. Matteo Ricci started to report on the thoughts of Confucius, and a team of Jesuits—Prospero Intorcetta, Philippe Couplet, and two others—published a translation of several Confucian works and an overview of Chinese history in Paris in 1687. François Noël, after failing to persuade ClementXI that Chinese veneration of ancestors and Confucius did not constitute idolatry, completed the Confucian canon at Prague in 1711, with more scholarly treatments of the other works and the first translation of the collected works of Mencius. It is thought that such works had considerable importance on European thinkers of the period, particularly among the Deists and other philosophical groups of the Enlightenment who were interested by the integration of the system of morality of Confucius into Western civilization.\n\nIn the modern era Confucian movements, such as New Confucianism, still exist, but during the Cultural Revolution, Confucianism was frequently attacked by leading figures in the Communist Party of China. This was partially a continuation of the condemnations of Confucianism by intellectuals and activists in the early 20th century as a cause of the ethnocentric close-mindedness and refusal of the Qing Dynasty to modernize that led to the tragedies that befell China in the 19th century.\n\nConfucius's works are studied by scholars in many other Asian countries, particularly those in the Chinese cultural sphere, such as Korea, Japan, and Vietnam. Many of those countries still hold the traditional memorial ceremony every year.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community believes Confucius was a Divine Prophet of God, as were Lao-Tzu and other eminent Chinese personages.\n\nIn modern times, Asteroid 7853, \"Confucius\", was named after the Chinese thinker.\n\nThere is not much known of Confucius's disciples, and a little over half of them had their surnames recorded in the \"Zuo Zhuan\". The \"Analects\" records 22 names that are most likely Confucius's disciples, while the \"Mencius\" records 24 names, although it is quite certain that there have been many more disciples whose name were not recorded. Most of Confucius's disciples were from the Lu state, while others were from neighboring states. For example, Zigong was from the Wey state, and Sima Niu was from the Song state. Confucius's favorite disciple was Yan Hui, most probably one of the most impoverished of them all. Sima Niu, in contrast to Yan Hui, was from a hereditary noble family hailing from the Song state. Under Confucius's teachings, the disciples became well-learned in the principles and methods of government. He often engaged in discussion and debate with his students and gave high importance to their studies in history, poetry, and ritual. Confucius advocated loyalty to principle rather than to individual acumen, in which reform was to be achieved by persuasion rather than violence. Even though Confucius denounced them for their practices, the aristocracy was likely attracted to the idea of having trustworthy officials who were studied in morals as the circumstances of the time made it desirable. In fact, the disciple Zilu even died defending his ruler in Wei.\n\nYang Hu, who was a subordinate of the Ji family, had dominated the Lu government from 505 to 502 and even attempted a coup, which narrowly failed. As a likely consequence, it was after that that the first disciples of Confucius were appointed to government positions. A few of Confucius's disciples went on to attain official positions of some importance, some of which were arranged by Confucius. By the time Confucius was 50 years old, the Ji family had consolidated their power in the Lu state over the ruling ducal house. Even though the Ji family had practices with which Confucius disagreed and disapproved, they nonetheless gave Confucius's disciples many opportunities for employment. Confucius continued to remind his disciples to stay true to their principles and renounced those who did not, all the while being openly critical of the Ji family.\n\nNo contemporary painting or sculpture of Confucius survives, and it was only during the Han Dynasty that he was portrayed visually. Carvings often depict his legendary meeting with Laozi. Since that time there have been many portraits of Confucius as the ideal philosopher. The oldest known portrait of Confucius has been unearthed in the tomb of the Han dynasty ruler Marquis of Haihun (died 59 BC). The picture was painted on the wooden frame to a polished bronze mirror.\n\nIn former times, it was customary to have a portrait in Confucius Temples; however, during the reign of Hongwu Emperor (Taizu) of the Ming dynasty, it was decided that the only proper portrait of Confucius should be in the temple in his home town, Qufu in Shandong. In other temples, Confucius is represented by a memorial tablet. In 2006, the China Confucius Foundation commissioned a standard portrait of Confucius based on the Tang dynasty portrait by Wu Daozi.\n\nSoon after Confucius's death, Qufu, his home town, became a place of devotion and remembrance. The Han dynasty \"Records of the Grand Historian\" records that it had already become a place of pilgrimage for ministers. It is still a major destination for cultural tourism, and many people visit his grave and the surrounding temples. In Sinic cultures, there are many temples where representations of the Buddha, Laozi, and Confucius are found together. There are also many temples dedicated to him, which have been used for Confucian ceremonies.\n\nFollowers of Confucianism have a tradition of holding spectacular memorial ceremonies of Confucius () every year, using ceremonies that supposedly derived from Zhou Li () as recorded by Confucius, on the date of Confucius's birth. In the twentieth century, this tradition was interrupted for several decades in mainland China, where the official stance of the Communist Party and the State was that Confucius and Confucianism represented reactionary feudalist beliefs which held that the subservience of the people to the aristocracy is a part of the natural order. All such ceremonies and rites were therefore banned. Only after the 1990s did the ceremony resume. As it is now considered a veneration of Chinese history and tradition, even Communist Party members may be found in attendance.\n\nIn Taiwan, where the Nationalist Party (Kuomintang) strongly promoted Confucian beliefs in ethics and behavior, the tradition of the memorial ceremony of Confucius (祭孔) is supported by the government and has continued without interruption. While not a national holiday, it does appear on all printed calendars, much as Father's Day or Christmas Day do in the Western world.\n\nIn South Korea, a grand-scale memorial ceremony called Seokjeon Daeje is held twice a year on Confucius's birthday and the anniversary of his death, at Confucian academies across the country and Sungkyunkwan in Seoul.\n\nConfucius's descendants were repeatedly identified and honored by successive imperial governments with titles of nobility and official posts. They were honored with the rank of a marquis thirty-five times since Gaozu of the Han dynasty, and they were promoted to the rank of duke forty-two times from the Tang dynasty to the Qing dynasty. Emperor Xuanzong of Tang first bestowed the title of \"Duke Wenxuan\" on Kong Suizhi of the 35th generation. In 1055, Emperor Renzong of Song first bestowed the title of \"Duke Yansheng\" on Kong Zongyuan of the 46th generation.\n\nDuring the Southern Song dynasty, the Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou fled south with the Song Emperor to Quzhou in Zhejiang, while the newly established Jin dynasty (1115–1234) in the north appointed Kong Duanyou's brother Kong Duancao who remained in Qufu as Duke Yansheng. From that time up until the Yuan dynasty, there were two Duke Yanshengs, one in the north in Qufu and the other in the south at Quzhou. An invitation to come back to Qufu was extended to the southern Duke Yansheng Kong Zhu by the Yuan-dynasty Emperor Kublai Khan. The title was taken away from the southern branch after Kong Zhu rejected the invitation, so the northern branch of the family kept the title of Duke Yansheng. The southern branch remained in Quzhou where they live to this day. Confucius's descendants in Quzhou alone number 30,000. The Hanlin Academy rank of Wujing boshi 五經博士 was awarded to the southern branch at Quzhou by a Ming Emperor while the northern branch at Qufu held the title Duke Yansheng. The leader of the southern branch is 孔祥楷 Kong Xiangkai.\n\nIn 1351, during the reign of Emperor Toghon Temür of the Yuan dynasty, 93rd-generation descendant Kong Huan (孔浣)'s 2nd son Kong Shao (孔昭) moved from China to Korea during the Goryeo Dynasty, and was received courteously by Princess Noguk (the Mongolian-born wife of the future king Gongmin). After being naturalized as a Korean citizen, he changed the hanja of his name from \"昭\" to \"紹\" (both pronounced \"so\" in Korean), married a Korean woman and bore a son (Gong Yeo (), 1329–1397), therefore establishing the Changwon Gong clan (), whose ancestral seat was located in Changwon, South Gyeongsang Province.\nThe clan then received an aristocratic rank during the succeeding Joseon Dynasty. In 1794, during the reign of King Jeongjo, the clan then changed its name to Gokbu Gong clan () in honor of Confucius's birthplace Qufu (), Shandong Province.Famous descendants include actors such as Gong Yoo (real name Gong Ji-cheol (공지철)) & Gong Hyo-jin (공효진); and artists such as male idol group B1A4 member Gongchan (real name Gong Chan-sik (공찬식)), singer-songwriter Minzy (real name Gong Min-ji (공민지)), as well as her great-aunt traditional folk dancer (공옥진).\n\nDespite repeated dynastic change in China, the title of Duke Yansheng was bestowed upon successive generations of descendants until it was abolished by the Nationalist Government in 1935. The last holder of the title, Kung Te-cheng of the 77th generation, was appointed Sacrificial Official to Confucius. Kung Te-cheng died in October 2008, and his son, Kung Wei-yi, the 78th lineal descendant, had died in 1989. Kung Te-cheng's grandson, Kung Tsui-chang, the 79th lineal descendant, was born in 1975; his great-grandson, Kung Yu-jen, the 80th lineal descendant, was born in Taipei on January 1, 2006. Te-cheng's sister, Kong Demao, lives in mainland China and has written a book about her experiences growing up at the family estate in Qufu. Another sister, Kong Deqi, died as a young woman. Many descendants of Confucius still live in Qufu today.\n\nA descendant of Confucius, H. H. Kung was the Premier of the Republic of China. One of his sons, Kong Lingjie 孔令傑 married Debra Paget who gave birth to Gregory Kung (孔德基).\n\nConfucius's family, the Kongs, have the longest recorded extant pedigree in the world today. The father-to-son family tree, now in its 83rd generation, has been recorded since the death of Confucius. According to the Confucius Genealogy Compilation Committee, he has 2 million known and registered descendants, and there are an estimated 3 million in all. Of these, several tens of thousands live outside of China. In the 14th century, a Kong descendant went to Korea, where an estimated 34,000 descendants of Confucius live today. One of the main lineages fled from the Kong ancestral home in Qufu during the Chinese Civil War in the 1940s and eventually settled in Taiwan. There are also branches of the Kong family who have converted to Islam after marrying Muslim women, in Dachuan in Gansu province in the 1800s, and in 1715 in Xuanwei city in Yunnan province. Many of the Muslim Confucius descendants are descended from the marriage of Ma Jiaga (马甲尕), a Muslim woman, and Kong Yanrong (孔彦嵘), 59th generation descendant of Confucius in the year 1480 and are found among the Hui and Dongxiang peoples. The new genealogy includes the Muslims. Kong Dejun (孔德軍) is a prominent Islamic scholar and Arabist from Qinghai province and a 77th generation descendant of Confucius.\n\nBecause of the huge interest in the Confucius family tree, there was a project in China to test the DNA of known family members of the collateral branches in mainland China. Among other things, this would allow scientists to identify a common Y chromosome in male descendants of Confucius. If the descent were truly unbroken, father-to-son, since Confucius's lifetime, the males in the family would all have the same Y chromosome as their direct male ancestor, with slight mutations due to the passage of time. The aim of the genetic test was the help members of collateral branches in China who lost their genealogical records to prove their descent. However, in 2009, many of the collateral branches decided not to agree to DNA testing. Bryan Sykes, professor of genetics at Oxford University, understands this decision: \"The Confucius family tree has an enormous cultural significance,\" he said. \"It's not just a scientific question.\" The DNA testing was originally proposed to add new members, many of whose family record books were lost during 20th-century upheavals, to the Confucian family tree. The main branch of the family which fled to Taiwan was never involved in the proposed DNA test at all.\n\nIn 2013 a DNA test performed on multiple different families who claimed descent from Confucius found that they shared the same Y chromosome as reported by Fudan University.\n\nThe fifth and most recent edition of the Confucius genealogy was printed by the Confucius Genealogy Compilation Committee (CGCC). It was unveiled in a ceremony at Qufu on September 24, 2009. Women are now included for the first time.\n\nThere is also a \"Sacrificial Official to Mencius\" for a descendant of Mencius, a \"Sacrificial Official to Zengzi\" for a descendant of Zengzi, and a \"Sacrificial Official to Yan Hui\" for a descendant of Yan Hui.\n\nThe descendants of Confucius still use generation poems for their names given to them by the Ming- and Qing-dynasty Emperors along with the descendants of the other Four Sages 四氏, Mencius, Zengzi, and Yan Hui.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25508633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25508633", "title": "Diane Marie Amann", "text": "Diane Marie Amann\n\nProfessor Diane Marie Amann is the Emily & Ernest Woodruff Chair in International Law at the University of Georgia School of Law. She has served since mid-2017 as a Faculty Co-Director of the law school's Dean Rusk International Law Center, a position she took up after completing a two-and-a-half-year term as Associate Dean for International Programs & Strategic Initiatives. Additionally, she serves as an Affiliated Faculty Member at the University of Georgia African Studies Institute.\nAmann is an expert on the interaction of national, regional, and international legal regimes in efforts to combat atrocity and cross-border crime, in areas ranging from counterterrorism measures at Guantánamo to international criminal justice efforts at The Hague. In December 2012, International Criminal Court Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda named Amann her Special Adviser on Children in and affected by Armed Conflict; her service has included assisting in preparation of the ICC Office of the Prosecutor \"Policy on Children\" (2016).\n\nDuring her research-intensive Spring 2018 semester, Professor Amann was: a Visiting Researcher at the Faculty of Law, University of Oxford Bonavero Institute of Human Rights and a Visiting Fellow at Mansfield College, Oxford; an External Scientific Fellow at the Max Planck Institute Luxembourg for International, European & Regulatory Procedural Law; and the inaugural Breslauer, Rutman & Anderson Research Fellow at the USC Shoah Foundation Institute for Visual History and Education, Los Angeles.\n\nAmann holds a Doctor honoris causa degree from Utrecht Universiteit in the Netherlands, a J.D. from Northwestern University School of Law in Chicago, an M.A. in political science from the University of California, Los Angeles, and a B.S. in journalism from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. She served as a law clerk to U.S. Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens and practiced as a federal criminal defense attorney in San Francisco before entering academia. Formerly Professor of Law and founding Director of the California International Law Center at the University of California, Davis School of Law (Martin Luther King, Jr. Hall), she served as Vice President of the American Society of International Law from 2009-2011 and as Chair of the Section on International Law of the Association of American Law Schools from 2009 to 2010. She is a board member of the National Institute of Military Justice. She is on the External Board of the Transitional Justice Institute at the University of Ulster.\n\nAmann is Editor-in-Chief of the American Society of International Law \"Benchbook on International Law\" (2014). In addition to her print publications, Amann has blogged at EJIL: Talk!, The New York Times' Room for Debate, SCOTUSblog, Slate's Convictions, The Blog of Legal Times, and The Huffington Post. She was the founding editor and contributor of IntLawGrrls, a blog that featured contributors from more than 300 judges, academics, students, and practitioners, from 2007 to 2012; subsequently, she launched a solo blog, Diane Marie Amann.\n\n"}
{"id": "1353219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1353219", "title": "Education Policy Analysis Archives", "text": "Education Policy Analysis Archives\n\nEducation Policy Analysis Archives is a peer-reviewed open access academic journal established in 1993 by Gene V. Glass (Arizona State University). Articles are published in English, Spanish, or Portuguese. The journal covers education policy at all levels of the education system in all nations. The editor-in-chief is Gustavo Enrique Fischman (Arizona State University). The journal is abstracted and indexed in Education Research Complete and Scopus.\n"}
{"id": "31123674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31123674", "title": "Education policy in Brazil", "text": "Education policy in Brazil\n\nEducation policy in Brazil has been given importance by the federal and local governments since 1995. At that time, the government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso and the Brazilian Ministry of Education began to pursue three areas of national education policy:\n\nAccording to the World Bank, these national education policies have tracked with global best practice, and implementation has been sustained and effective in improving performance and outcomes of education in Brazil. Though Brazil has made significant strides in improving labor force skills, Brazil is below average with respect to learning levels, secondary completion rates, and student flow efficiency, when compared to OECD and other middle-income countries. In addition, non-attendance rates and drop-out rates have also been on the increase. Moreover, these factors are especially high in lower income areas where the quality of education largely remains below the expected levels. These have been the recent targets of education policy.\n\nThe Brazilian federal government legislates direction for national education, develops national educational plans, and provides technical and financial assistance to the states, the Federal District, and to municipalities for the development of educational systems. The Federal Constitution of Brazil outlines the educational rights of Brazilian citizens in Title VIII, Chapter III, Section 1.\n\nTo reduce inequality and variation in per student spending between different regions and schools, in 1996, the government introduced and expanded education finance equalization policies, in particular through the creation of FUNDEF (1996–2006) and FUNDEB (2006–present), both of which entailed policies about allocation of education funding and increases in overall funding of education.\n\nThe Fund for Maintenance and Development of the Fundamental Education and Valorization of Teaching (Fundo para Manutenção e Desenvolvimento do Ensino Fundamental e Valorização do Magistério (FUNDEF)) was introduced in 1996 to reform the funding of education in Brazil. It was established to make sure that money mandated by the constitution is actually spent on education and to establish a per student spending floor for the whole country. The policy mandated redistribution of funds within states across municipalities, so that all municipalities could reach the per student spending requirement. Additionally, federal government then supplemented spending in states and municipalities that could not afford the national spending floor. Finally, FUNDEF required that 60% of spending go towards teacher salaries and 40% go towards school operations.\n\nIn 1998, when FUNDEF was implemented, 30.6 billion reais(R$) were redistributed to six different states. Overall spending increased from approximately 2% of GDP in 1995 to 4% of GDP in 2008. Additionally, teacher salaries increased by an average of 70% in the first few years of implementation. According to research done by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), FUNDEF played an important role in increasing enrollment rates over that period, particularly in small municipalities. It was, however, limited in scope, entailing the investment of funds only to elementary education and expiring in September 2006 when it reached 10 years of creation.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the House of Representatives approved the Proposal for Amendment to the Constitution creating the Fund for the Development of Basic Education and Appreciation of the Teaching Profession (Fundo de Manutenção e Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica e de Valorização de Profissionais de Educação (FUNDEB)), intended to finance elementary education (kindergarten, preschool, elementary, and high school education).\n\nFUNDEB was made effective for fourteen years and has been gradually implemented. It was formed by allocating 20% of resources from state and federal taxes, and distributed these among each State and Municipality in proportion to the number of students enrolled. FUNDEB entailed committing R$2 billion in the first year, R$2.9 billion in the second year, R$3.7 billion in the third and R$4.5 billion in the fourth year and successive. It extended the financing equalization introduced under FUNDEF to secondary school and pre-school education, in order to ensure funding of basic education for all students in Brazil. FUNDEB also explicitly ensured funding for indigenous communities. As a result, FUNDEB increased the volume of federal funds committed to basic education by ten times, injecting new funds into all the stages of basic education and allocating resources for programs targeted to youth and adults.\n\nThe main objective of FUNDEB is to continue to redistribute resources related to education across the country, taking into account the social and economic development of regions. The federal government provides supplementary funds targeted to regions where the investment per student is below the minimum value for each year, allocating funds according to the number of students in basic education based on school census data from the previous year. Additionally, federal, state, and municipal councils, empowered by the Ministry of Education, provide monitoring and control of distribution, transfer and use of program resources.\n\nBrazil offers Conditional Cash Transfers (CCTs) to students, and as of January 2011 has one of the largest CCT programs of any country. The transfers are currently paid to 26% of the population.\n\nBolsa Escola is a cash transfer program that provided cash payments to poor families with children ages 6 to 15 in exchange for their enrollment in school and their attendance of at least 85% of school days. The program was first implemented in 1995 by the municipalities of Brasília (the Federal District) and Campinas (in São Paulo State). Within three years, over 50 municipalities in seven states implemented similar programs. After these successful local CCT experiences in the mid-1990s, CCTs gained momentum in Congress, prompting President Fernando Henrique Cardoso's government to create the Federal Bolsa Escola program in April 2001.\n\nBy the end of 2001, it had been implemented in 98% of the 5,561 Brazilian municipalities, providing stipends to over 8.2 million children from 4.8 million families, at a cost of over US$700 million. In October 2003, President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva unified Bolsa Escola and three other federal cash transfer programs into a single program called Bolsa Família.\n\nBolsa Família (Family Allowance) is a social welfare program which provides financial aid to poor Brazilian families. Families must ensure that their children attend school and are vaccinated. The program's dual aims are to reduce short-term poverty by direct cash aid, and fight long-term poverty by increasing educational and experiential skills among the poor through conditional cash grants.\n\nThe Economist described Bolsa Família as an \"anti-poverty scheme invented in South America\" (which) \"is winning converts worldwide.\" Bolsa Familia is currently the largest conditional cash transfer program in the world, though the Mexican program Oportunidades was the first nationwide program of this kind.\nThe Bolsa Familia program has been mentioned as one factor contributing to the reduction of poverty in Brazil, which fell 27.7% during the first term in the Lula administration. About 12 million Brazilian families receive funds from Bolsa Família, which has been described as \"the largest programme of its kind in the world.\"\n\nThe National Institute of Educational Studies and Research (Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais Anísio Teixeira (INEP)) is the assessment arm of the Ministry of Education. It was created in 1990 to collect, process and analyze data on education in Brazil.\n\nThe National Assessment of Basic Education (Sistema Nacional de Avaliação da Educação Básica (SAEB)) and the \"Prova Brasil\" (\"Test of Brazil\") are two exams that make up the Evaluation System of Basic Education in Brazil.\n\nThe SAEB was the first national Brazilian initiative to measure the Brazilian educational system in depth. It was developed in the late 1980s and was first applied in 1990. In 1995, SAEB was restructured to allow for performance comparison from year to year. Since the first assessment, it has provided data on the quality of the educational systems of Brazil as a whole, geographic regions and the federal units (states and Federal Districts). The SAEB is carried out by INEP / Ministry of Education every two years. Tests on the Portuguese language and mathematics are taken by a sample of students enrolled in the 4th and 8th grades of elementary school and also the 3rd year of high school, in public and private schools located in both urban and rural areas. Results are aggregated for each state of Brazil and for Brazil as a whole.\n\nThe \"Prova Brasil\" assessment was established in 2005, due to a desire for more detail beyond that included in the SAEB. It expanded the range of results providing data not only for Brazil and Brazilian states, but also for each municipality and school participant. The \"Prova Brasil\" assesses all students in public urban education in the 4th and 8th grades of elementary school, public elementary education in state schools, municipal and federal levels of rural and urban schools that have at least 20 students enrolled in the grade assessed. The methodology of the two evaluations is the same and they have been used in combination since 2007, but students take one or the other and never both.\n\nThe results of the SAEB and \"Prova Brasil\" are distributed to the public of Brazil and anyone can view the results online.\n\nIn 2007, the Brazilian Ministry of Education implemented the Index of Basic Education Quality (Indice de Desenvolvimento da Educacao Basica (IDEB)) to monitor education progress in every school, municipality, state and region of Brazil. The IDEB builds on the SAEB and the \"Prova Brasil\", combining the results of the \"Prova Brasil\" test with data on student enrollments and rates of repetition and graduation to generate an index of school performance for all but the smallest of Brazil's 175,000 primary and secondary schools, 5,000-plus municipal school systems, 26 state systems and the federal district systems. The results of IDEB studies are reported twice a year, and receive media coverage. Based upon the findings, the federal government establishes targets for improvement of primary and secondary education across schools.\n\nIn the initial years of IDEB's implementation, 2007–2009, it was found that over 70% of municipalities either reached or exceeded targets set by the Ministry of Education and INEP for early primary education.\n\nAccording to data from the SAEB/Proval Brasil from 1999 to 2007, there is evidence that educational performance is improving in all regions of Brazil. Performance for the lowest income students has also improved. According to the World Bank, Brazil increased PISA scores more for the lowest income groups than the highest income groups. However, gaps in school attendance and learning levels still remain between different income groups.\n\nThe Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) test is designed to measure trends in countries' average student scores over time, relative to a mean score of 500 achieved by the OECD countries as a group in the year 2000.\n\nBrazil has participated in PISA since 2000. Brazil had the strongest improvement in math and 3rd largest improvement overall (after Luxembourg and Chile) between 2000 and 2009 on PISA, but its absolute scores are still low compared to other participants. For example, 60% of students still scored below 400-showing that they lacked basic numeracy skills—compared with 14% across the OECD and 3-5% in top performing countries Shanghai and Korea. Additionally, Brazil falls behind others in the LAC (Latin American and Caribbean) region, including Chile, Uruguay and Mexico; and LAC countries as a whole trail the OECD average performance. According to the World Bank, \"The gap in math skills between the average student in Shanghai and the average Brazilian student is approximately 5 school years.\"\n\nAfter the expansion in education policies, enrollment rates in primary and lower-secondary education have increased. The percentage of children who finish primary education has increased from 42% to 71%, and the percentage of children who complete secondary school has increased from 28% to 55%. Additionally, in 1993 secondary education was often attained only when students came from parents who had attained secondary education. As of 2009, students complete between 9 and 11 years of schooling regardless of the schooling level of their parents, which ranges from 0–10 years. According to the 2007 National Household Sample Survey carried out by the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics (IBGE), 97.6% of children between 7 and 14 years old are in school, 27 million students. Children that are not in school tend to belong to afro-descendent, indigenous and quilombola or poor communities, as well as children with disabilities or at-risk youth.\n\nNon-attendance in schools is still a concern in parts of the country. As per estimates given by the IBGE, in more wealthy states, 95% of the children enroll from the beginning. However, in lower income regions, the rate of children enrolling at the beginning is recorded between 60% and 80%. According to a UNICEF survey, 35% of children complete fifth grade education in Brazil.\n\nThe Ministry of Education has begun to introduce new standards for teachers, federally supported, higher quality teacher training programs and textbook screening and production. Such investment includes programs such as Mais Educacao, and the expansion of the federal technical schools. The federal government has also invested in policies like school-level planning under FUNDESCOLA, multi-grade teaching under Escola Ativa and capacity building for municipal education managers, with PAR.\n\nThere are some examples of Brazilian government officials engaging with non-governmental organizations to support or manage teachers and schools:\n\nThe presidents of several Brazilian companies, including DPaschoal car parts chain, the Gerdau Group and major banks Itaú, Bradesco and Santander, founded All for Education(See Todos Pela Educacao in Portuguese), and developed goals for Brazil's education and monitoring tools with help of U.S. and Brazilian education experts. All for Education engaged academic and media channels to help promote education as a national priority, and according to a poll by CNO/IBOPE education moved from the seventh biggest public concern to second, after crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022076", "title": "Essay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life", "text": "Essay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life\n\nEssay on a Course of Liberal Education for Civil and Active Life (1765) is an educational treatise by the 18th-century British polymath Joseph Priestley.\n\nDedicated to the governing board of Warrington Academy at which Priestley was a tutor, it argues that the education of young people should anticipate their practical needs, something Priestley accused the current universities, Dissenting and Establishment alike, of failing to do. In Priestley's eyes, the contemporary focus on a traditional classical education prevented students from acquiring useful skills. This principle of utility guided his unconventional curricular choices for Warrington's aspiring middle-class businessmen. He proposed that students study English and the modern languages instead of the classical languages, learn practical mathematics, read modern rather than ancient history, and study the constitution and laws of England. He believed that these topics would prepare his students for the commercial middle-class life that most of them would live; he did not believe that the poor should receive this same education, arguing \"it could be of no service to their country, and often a real detriment to themselves.\" The board was convinced and in 1766 Warrington Academy replaced its classical curriculum with Priestley's liberal arts model.\n\nSome scholars of education have argued that this work and Priestley's later \"Miscellaneous Observations relating to Education\" (1778) (often reprinted with the \"Essay on Education\") made Priestley the \"most considerable English writer on educational philosophy\" between the 17th-century John Locke and the 19th-century Herbert Spencer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4376617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4376617", "title": "Ferenc Krausz", "text": "Ferenc Krausz\n\nFerenc Krausz (born 17 May 1962 in Mór, Hungary) is a Hungarian-Austrian physicist, whose research team has generated and measured the first attosecond light pulse and used it for capturing electrons’ motion inside atoms, marking the birth of attophysics.\n\nKrausz studied theoretical physics at Eötvös Loránd University and electrical engineering at the Technical University of Budapest in Hungary. After his habilitation at the Technical University of Vienna, in Austria, he became professor at the same institute. In 2003 he was appointed director at the Max Planck Institute for Quantum Optics in Garching and in 2004 became chair of experimental physics at the Ludwig Maximilians University in Munich. In 2006 he co-founded the Munich-Centre of Advanced Photonics (MAP) and began serving as one of its directors.\n\nFerenc Krausz and his research team were the first to create and measure a light pulse lasting less than one femtosecond. The researchers used these attosecond light pulses to make the inner-atomic movement of electrons observable in real time. These results marked the beginning of attosecond physics.\n\nIn the 1990s, the groundwork for this landmark was done by Ferenc Krausz and his team with a large number of innovations to the further development of the femtosecond laser technology to its ultimate limits – towards light pulses which carry the major part of their energy in one single oscillation of the electromagnetic field. An indispensable prerequisite for the generation of such short light pulses is the high-precision control of the delay of the different color components of broadband (white) light over one entire octave. Aperiodic multi-layers (chirped mirrors) emerging from a collaboration of Ferenc Krausz and Robert Szipöcs made such a control possible and are indispensable in today's femtosecond laser systems.\n\nIn 2001, Ferenc Krausz and his group were able for the first time not only to generate but also to measure attosecond light pulses (of extreme ultraviolet light) by means of intense laser pulses consisting of one to two wave cycles. With this, they were shortly thereafter also able to trace the movement of electrons on the subatomic scale in real time. The control of the wave form of the femtosecond pulse demonstrated by Ferenc Krausz and his team and the resulting reproducible attosecond pulses enabled the establishment of the attosecond measuring technique as the technological basis for experimental attosecond physics today. Over the past few years, Ferenc Krausz and his coworkers succeeded with these tools to control electrons in molecules and – for the first time – observe in real time a large number of fundamental electron processes such as tunneling, charge transport, coherent EUV emission, delayed photoelectric effect, valence electron movement and the control of the optical and electrical properties of dielectrics. These results have been archived with international cooperations with groups of scientists such as Joachim Burgdörfer, Paul Corkum, Theodor Hänsch, Misha Ivanov, Ulrich Heinzmann, Stephen Leone, Robin Santra, Mark Stockman and Marc Vrakking.\n\n"}
{"id": "30427088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427088", "title": "Google Science Fair", "text": "Google Science Fair\n\nThe Google Science Fair is a worldwide (excluding Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Myanmar/Burma, Syria, Zimbabwe and any other U.S. sanctioned country) online science competition sponsored by Google, Lego, Virgin Galactic, National Geographic and \"Scientific American\". It occurred annually between 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe first Google Science Fair was announced in January 2011; entries were due on April 7, 2011 and judging occurred in July 2011. The competition is open to 13- to 18-year-old students around the globe, who formulate a hypothesis, perform an experiment, and present their results. All students must have an internet connection and a free Google Account to participate, and the projects must be in English, German, Italian, Spanish, or French. The final submission must include ten sections, which are the summary, an \"About Me\" page, the steps of the project, and a works cited page.\nEntries are judged on eight core criteria, which include the student's presentation, question, hypothesis, research, experiment, data, observations, and conclusion. Prizes are awarded to three finalists. The grand prize includes a National Geographic trip to the Galapagos Islands, a US $50,000 scholarship, and an \"experience\" at a small broken shack for a small organization; finalists will receive a US $15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations. While Larry Page and Sergey Brin were PhD students at Stanford University in California, they created Google in January 1996 as a research project; Google employee Tom Oliveri highlighted the company's early days: \"Science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science. Our company was founded on an experiment. We firmly believe that science can change the world,\" he stated.\n\nThe on-line site also contains a number of highlighted guest interviews with selected individuals, each well established and prominent in their field of science, with the aim being for them to act as inspiration to young students. The individuals chosen include Mitch Resnick, Spencer Wells, Kevin Warwick, and Mariette DiChristina.\n\nShree Bose, a 17-year-old girl in Texas, won the grand prize and $50,000 for her research on the chemotherapy drug, cisplatin, that is commonly taken by women with ovarian cancer, tackling the problem of cancer cells growing resistant to cisplatin over time.\n\nNaomi Shah of Portland, OR, won the age 15–16 category with a study of the effects of air quality on lungs, particularly for people who have asthma. Ms. Shah recruited 103 test subjects, performed 24-hour air quality measurements at their homes and workplaces and had each blow into a device that measured the force of their breath.\n\nLauren Hodge of York, PA, won the age 13–14 category for research on whether marinades reduce the amount of cancer-causing compounds produced by the grilling of meat. She found that lemon juice and brown sugar cut the level of carcinogens sharply, while soy sauce increased them.\n\nPeople around the world (90 countries) had the opportunity to vote for their favorite projects in Google’s online voting gallery. Google has had more than 100,000 votes and the competition was really tight. Nimal Subramanian won the People’s Choice Award for receiving the most among the 60 semi-finalists. The public really loved Nimal's project on Cancer Busters. Nimal received a $10,000 scholarship.\n\nBrittany Wenger, who was 17, won the grand prize with her \"Global Neural Network Cloud Service for Breast Cancer\". Designed to noninvasively diagnose malignant cancerous tumors, it successfully detected over 99% of malignant breast tumors in a test set. She received $50,000, a trip to the Galapagos Islands, mentoring and internship opportunities for winning the competition.\n\nIván Hervías Rodríguez, Marcos Ochoa, and Sergio Pascual, all of Spain, won the 15-16 age group using microscopy to examine microscopic creatures in aquatic ecosystems.\n\nJonah Kohn won the age 13-14 group by designing and building a device designed to enhance the listening experience of those with hearing loss. His device attached to different parts of the body, translating sound into tactile stimulation.\n\nThe winners of the 2013 Google Science Fair were:\n\n13-14 age category: Viney Kumar (Australia) — The PART (Police and Ambulances Regulating Traffic) Program. Viney’s project looked for new ways to provide drivers with more notice when an emergency vehicle is approaching, so they can take evasive action to get out of the emergency vehicle’s way.\n\n15-16 age category: Ann Makosinski (Canada) — The Hollow Flashlight. Using Peltier tiles and the temperature difference between the palm of the hand and ambient air, Ann designed a flashlight that provides bright light without batteries or moving parts.\n\n17-18 age category Grand Prize Winner: Eric Chen (USA) — Computer-aided Discovery of Novel Influenza Endonuclease Inhibitors to Combat Flu Pandemic. Combining computer modeling and biological studies, Eric’s project looks at influenza endonuclease inhibitors as leads for a new type of anti-flu medicine, effective against all influenza viruses including pandemic strains.\n\nThe 2014 Google Science Fair started accepting entries on February 12, 2014 and the entries closed on May 13, 2014. And the results for the local, regional and Science in Action award nominees were declared. The Grand Prize was won by three girls from Ireland, Ciara Judge (16), Emer Hickey (16) and Sophie Healey (17). They were the first group winners of the competition and the youngest winners to date (they also won the 15-16 age category prize). Their project was entitled 'Combating the Global Food Crisis: Diazatroph Bacteria as a Cereal Crop Growth Promoter.'\n\nThe 13-14 age category was won by Mihir Garimella (14) from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a project titled 'Fruit-fly Inspired Robots.' Hayley Todesco (17) of Canada won the 17-18 age category with her project titled 'Cleaning up Oil Sands Waste.'\n\nAlong with the overall prizes for each category, a number of special awards were also announced. Kenneth Shinozuka (15) was declared as the Science In Action Award winner in recognition of the practical potential of his project 'Wearable Sensors for Aging Society.' Arsh Shah Dilbagi (16) from India won the Voter's Choice Award for creating an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) device that converts breath into words, enabling mute people to speak.\n\nThe 2015 Google Science Fair closed for entries on May 18, 2015 with regional finalists announced in London on July 7, 2015. These included Lauren McKenzie (14) who built an automatic soil watering system, Shadab Karnachi (14) who designed a low-cost gaming device for people with visual impairments and Peter He (14) who developed an innovative wireless virtual reality system.\n\nThe global finalists were announced on August 4, 2015 and the winners on September 21, 2015. The Grand Prize was won by Olivia Hallisey (16) with her project ‘Temperature-Independent, Portable, and Rapid Field Detection of Ebola via a Silk-Derived Lateral-Flow System’. The Google Technologist Award was won by Girish Kumar (17) for his project ‘Revup: Automatically Generating Questions from Educational Texts’ and the Incubator Award was won by Elliott Sarrey (14) with his project ‘Bot2karot: Manage Your Vegetable Garden via Your Smartphone’. The Lego Education Builder Award won by Anurudh Ganesan (15), the Virgin Galactic Pioneer Award won by Jeff Cheema (15), the Scientific American Innovator Award won by Krtin Nithiyanandam (15), the National Geographic Explorer Award won by Deepika Kurup (17) and the Community Impact Award won by Lalita Prasida.\n\nThe 2016 Google Science Fair closed its entries on May 17, 2016, the Global 16 Finalist were announced on August 11, 2016. The final event took place during 24 to 27 September 2016 at Mountain View, California. Sixteen finalists competed for top five awards. The first two rounds had two age groups 13-15 and 16-18. However, unlike previous years, top awards during the finalist event did not distinguish between the two age groups of the previous rounds, thus making it particularly challenging event for the contestant compared to all previous years.\n\nThe Grand Prize was won by Kiara Nirghin (16) of South Africa for her project 'Fighting Drought with Fruit'. The Lego Education Builder award was won by Anushka Naiknaware (13) of United States, the youngest contestant to win a top award ever, for 'Smart Wound Care for the Future'. The National Geographic Explorer award was won by Mphatso Simbao (18) of Zambia. The Scientific American Innovator Award was won by a team of three for 'Fighting Foam Waste with Recycled Filters' from the US [Ashton (14), Luke (14) and Julia (14)]. The Virgin Galactic Pioneer award was won by Charlie Fenske (16) for 'Making Rockets more Efficient', also from the United States.\n\nThe competition did not begin as usual in May, 2017. Starting from the late summer, the official website stated that \"We're conducting some experiments\" and \"Coming Fall 2017\". The submissions of competition in 2018 began on 13th September 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27200805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27200805", "title": "Grammarsgate", "text": "Grammarsgate\n\nGrammarsgate was a 2007 dispute within the British Conservative Party over party policy on grammar schools. Party leader David Cameron refused to support the creation of more grammar schools instead backing Labour's policy of City Academies.\n\nConservative leader David Cameron referred to supporters of grammars as \"inverse class warriors,\" and stated that the idea of creating more was delusional. This angered many traditional Conservative supporters for whom grammar schools were a popular policy. The Shadow Europe Minister Graham Brady resigned over disagreements on whether grammar schools boost social mobility. and the 1922 committee denounced David Cameron's policy as \"absurd\".\n\n"}
{"id": "330727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330727", "title": "Household Cyclopedia", "text": "Household Cyclopedia\n\nThe Household Cyclopedia was an American guide to housekeeping published in 1881.\n\n"}
{"id": "35973649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35973649", "title": "Individual Education", "text": "Individual Education\n\nIndividual Education is a school system rooted in the individual psychology of Alfred Adler. Designed by Raymond Corsini, the Individual Education program includes a number of basic principles. The program consists of three components: Academic; Creative/Applied; Socialization. Corsini also outlined disciplinary procedures and a number of other principles to ensure the most productive possible school environment.\n\nThe following are the basic principles of the Individual Education School System:\n\n\nA primary goal of Individual Education is to make children self-sufficient, giving them the mean to become a productive member of society; to become mature and self-reliant. Individual Education is against the infantilization of the child. Instead, Individual Education maximizes the child's self-determination.\n\nIndividual Education is designed to develop in children feeling of respect of the self and of others. Traditional school systems make children feel inferior and make many of them feel unsuccessful. A system based on rewards and punishment, praise and disapproval, is considered morally bankrupt in the Individual Education system. Some children are not born into environments conducive to academics. Some children have strengths not visible in the traditional system. Any system that insults these children is wrong.\n\nEvery child has innate talents, and some strengths and weaknesses. Whatever resources the child has, Individual Education permits expression, whether academic or non-academic. If little Michaelangelo wants to paint, let him. If he therefore never learns how to solve square roots, so be it. If little Willy Gates doesn't want to leave his computer alone, let him. If he therefore never reads Shakespeare, so be it. As long as Michaelangelo can do basic math, and Willy can read well, that is enough. For others, a broader program will be necessary. The child will determine the program that best suits him/her. The curriculum will be there when he/she needs it. The teacher will encourage learning of all types of academe, but will not force it.\n\nThe concept of Social Interest (\"Gemeinschaftsgefuhl\" in Adlerian theory) is central to Individual Education. It means responding to the needs of others. It can be seen in school spirit, patriotism, love for family, or elsewhere. This is critical to a child becoming a productive and happy member of society. This goal is not achieved directly, but rather through the achievement of the first 3 Rs.\n\nThe curriculum in the academic component is similar to that in the traditional system. Language, mathematics, history/geography and science are developed along the mastery model—through a skills list through which children progress from the beginning of school to the end. Children are tested weekly on average but it is the children who request to be tested; teachers cannot demand that tests be written. Instead a Progress Chart shows how far along the child is (80% is considered mastery). The child doesn't have to learn what he/she has already learned—if the child can pass a test without attending class, the Progress Chart is marked identically to that of a child that attended hours of classroom study. A quick learner is offered the next level of curriculum and the opportunity to tutor others. No numerical or letter-based grading system is used.\n\nThese courses can be offered in 6-8 week blocks. 1-3 can be chosen out of 9-12 courses offered. Included are topics students want to learn but do not find in traditional curriculum. They usually involve some physical activities (e.g. soccer), some artistic ones (visual arts) and some applied (horticulture). Teachers offer courses in areas of their interest. Community resources are used where possible.\n\nTeachers socialize children through their positions as teachers and advisers. Children can choose their adviser, though the teacher can choose whether to accept that student. The adviser is an equal to the child in this environment (unlike during the academic program), and can only enforce the first school rule, related to dangerous behavior (see below). They meet as a group (the adviser with all children who have chosen him or her, or in the absence of a decision by the child, the child is assigned an adviser).Among other things, students learn about problem solving, health maintenance, interpersonal communications and purpose in life. The adviser supervises homeroom, which occurs at the beginning and end of the day and is unstructured. At least once a week and sometimes every day, the adviser holds a class meeting during which time the children discuss their various concerns. Rules regarding homeroom and class meetings can only be decided democratically. The teacher can suggest rules but the children decide by a vote.\n\nThe adviser is also the liaison between the child and other teachers with whom there may be difficulties, and can act as a mediator. The adviser also liaises with the child's parents but only on rare occasions and only with the child's consent. The child should always be in the room during such discussions if possible.\n\nThe socialization program includes \"playtime\" for younger children. Other teachers are also free to discuss social matters with children, as equals.\n\nIndividual Education schools have only three school rules:\n\nThere are no exceptions to these rules. Violation of one of these rules means the child is given a violation slip which they take to the office to have recorded.\n\nTeachers can establish idiosyncratic classrooms, but they cannot violate the three rules above. Because there are so few rules, teachers must ensure that they are strictly enforced.\n\nThese rules are largely based on the discipline concepts of Rudolf Dreikurs. Dreikurs' concept of logical consequences is particularly useful in understanding the Individual Education disciplinary procedure.\n\nThe GO signal is a gesture towards the door. A teacher may quietly say the child's name and make the gesture. The child must then leave the classroom immediately and silently without disruption to others. The child then has a few options: go to another class; go to the study hall; go to the library; seek to re-enter the classroom. The child can return to the classroom but may be given the STOP signal at that time, which means the child must go to another option. The STOP signal is a hand held face up in the direction of the child entering.\n\nTeachers should not keep track of the number of times they give out the GO and STOP signals. They have no meaning in terms of the child's progress in school, and should carry no social consequences. A teacher must not warn the child of an impending GO signal, nor intimidate the child by standing close to them or giving them negative looks. There is no use in intimidating the child, who will rebel against such an attempt.\n\nFor each violation there is a consequence. If the ultimate consequence of expulsion is applied, it should include a referral to other professional help.\n\nResearch articles have indicated the following findings:\n\nRaymond Corsini recognized in the late 1960s that adults were mistakenly blaming children for their poor behavior and grades in school when the problems were promoted by the school system in which the children operated. Corsini argued that the traditional system of education was fundamentally undemocratic. Children were \"sentenced\" to attend an institution where they had no choice of teacher or level of study, and minimal choice in terms of subjects, places or means of study. He set out to design a school system in which respect would be a central principle. Research by Paul Clark confirmed that Individual Education is an effective method of encouraging learning.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, there were a dozen individual education schools operating in North America and Europe, including Hawaii, Illinois, Colorado, British Columbia and the Netherlands. One school, the Blooming Grove Academy, operated in Bloomington, Illinois from 1986 until 2011.\nForest Park I.E. (K-5) and Hufford I.E.(6-8), both in Joliet, IL continue to operate using the Corsini system.\nThe original Individual Education School, Ho'Ala School in Wahiawa, Hawaii, continues to be in operation for kindergarten to grade 12. DaVinci Charter School closed down in February 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "39053233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39053233", "title": "Instructional Skills Workshop", "text": "Instructional Skills Workshop\n\nThe Instructional Skills Workshop (ISW) is offered within a small group setting (5-6 participants) and is designed to enhance the teaching effectiveness of both new and experienced educators. It is a structured approach to peer feedback on microteaching with additional thematic sessions for instructors' learning. During the 24-hour workshop (usually offered over 3-4 days), participants design and conduct three \"mini-lessons\" and receive verbal, written and video feedback from the other participants who have been learners in the mini-lessons. Using an intensive experiential learning approach, the workshop encourages reflection and examination of one's teaching practices with feedback focused on the learning process rather than on the content of the lesson.\n\nThose who wish to facilitate ISW after taking it must take the 40-hour Facilitator Development Workshop (FDW), and those who wish to train facilitators take the Trainer Development Workshop (TDW) by shadowing the FDW with a trainer from the network. \n\nThe ISW promotes participatory learning and the building of community. Detailed information about the ISW and related workshops can be found at the ISW Network website\n\nThe Instructional Skills Workshop was initially designed for instructors at community colleges and institutes in British Columbia in 1978 by Douglas Kerr, from the Vancouver Community College at the request of Diane Morrison from the Ministry of Advanced Education.\n\nIn 1992, the University of British Columbia introduced the ISW as a program designed for teaching assistants.\n\nThe first handbook was written by Douglas Kerr in 1978. As the ISW grew across Canada and internationally, there have been numerous collaborators contributing to the handbook.\n\n"}
{"id": "49683529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49683529", "title": "Interpret Europe", "text": "Interpret Europe\n\n\"Interpret Europe – European Association for Heritage Interpretation\" is an international membership-based association with charitable status that serves all who use first-hand experiences to give natural and cultural heritage a deeper meaning. Interpret Europe encourages dialogue and partnerships between associations and universities, providers and professionals from more than 40 countries.\n\nHeritage interpretation developed in US National Parks during the first half of the 20th century and was originally defined by Freeman Tilden in 1957. The first national association in Europe was the Society for the Interpretation of Britain’s Heritage, founded in 1975. Interpret Europe was first developed as an open network in 2000, while the association was formally established in 2010. \n\nInterpret Europe operates on a two-tier system with an Executive Board of Directors and a Supervisory Committee. The Board of Directors manages the organisation and comprises at least two members, each authorised to act as legal representatives. The Board of Directors is appointed by a Supervisory Committee, consisting of three to nine members. The Supervisory Committee is elected by the General Assembly which must approve the activities of both the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Committee.\n\nInterpret Europe fosters research and practice on the field of heritage interpretation.\n\nHeritage interpretation is a non-formal learning approach encouraging people to search for meanings that natural or cultural heritage holds for them through first-hand experiences of heritage sites, objects or events. It is a worldwide approach mainly used in protected areas, at monuments, in museums or at zoological or botanical gardens.\n\nInterpret Europe promotes itself as a European platform for cooperation and exchange for these institutions, as well as universities where heritage interpretation is taught.\n\nInterpret Europe holds conferences, participates in international projects and organises training events.\n\n\"Conferences\" typically feature up to 100 presentations, workshops and study visits, with most conference participants contributing to them. Interpret Europe conferences have been held in Germany (2011), Italy (2012), Sweden (2013), Croatia (2014) and Poland (2015). The 2016 Interpret Europe Conference, in Belgium, addressed the theme of \"Heritage Interpretation – for the Future of Europe\" and was dedicated to the question of how the experience of visiting historic sites contributes to learning about subjects such as human rights, active citizenship and peace.\n\n\"International projects\" focus on a number of subject areas, including the development of European quality criteria (LEADER “Transinterpret” Project, Leonardo “TOPAS” Project), the development of training course offers (Leonardo “HeriQ” Project), working with specific audiences (Grundtvig “HISA” Project) and dealing with competence-based learning approaches (Leonardo “IOEH” Project, Grundtvig “InHerit” Project, Erasmus+ “HIMIS” Project).\n\n\"Training events\" are offered in different languages and currently focus on certification courses for interpretive guides, hosts and writers at visitor-related facilities, such as parks or museums.\n\nInterpret Europe is part of a global alliance, cooperating with the National Association for Interpretation (USA), Interpretation Canada, Interpretation Australia and other networks and initiatives.\nIn Europe, there are currently joint projects with the Association for Heritage Interpretation (UK), with Sdružení pro interpretaci místního dědictví (Czech Republic) and with Interpretirajmo Hrvatsku (Croatia). Interpret Europe has also entered into an exchange with the Asociación para la Interpretación del Patrimonio (Spain) and with the Associação de Interpretação do Património Natural e Cultural (Portugal). Interpret Europe supports the development of further national associations in Europe.\n"}
{"id": "51976032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51976032", "title": "Iranian Teachers' Trade Association", "text": "Iranian Teachers' Trade Association\n\nIranian Teachers' Trade Association (ITTA; ) is a trade union of educators in Iran. It is an affiliate of Education International and Esmail Abdi serves as its secretary-general.\n"}
{"id": "31896222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31896222", "title": "Islamic Secondary School \"Dr. Ahmed Smajlović\"", "text": "Islamic Secondary School \"Dr. Ahmed Smajlović\"\n\nIslamic Secondary School Dr. Ahmed Smajlovic (, ) is a private secondary school (gymnasium) situated in Zagreb, Croatia. Islamic Secondary School Dr. Ahmed Smajlović carries the educational programs of general secondary school direction. Classes are taught in Croatian language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1304471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1304471", "title": "Jacques-François Blondel", "text": "Jacques-François Blondel\n\nJacques-François Blondel (8 January 1705 – 9 January 1774) was an 18th-century French architect and teacher. After running his own highly successful school of architecture for many years, he was appointed Professor of Architecture at the Académie Royale d'Architecture in 1762, and his \"Cours d'architecture\" (\"Course of Architecture\", 1771–1777) largely superseded a similarly titled book published in 1675 by his famous namesake, François Blondel, who had occupied the same post in the late 17th century.\n\nBorn in Rouen, he initially trained under his uncle Jean-François Blondel (1683–1756), architect of Rouen. Jacques-François was in Paris by 1726 and continued his studies with Gilles-Marie Oppenord, from whom he acquired a knowledge of rococo. He also worked with Jean Mariette, contributing to the latter's \"L'Architecture françoise\" (1727, 1738), as a writer and as an architectural engraver. Blondel developed into a conservative and thorough architect, whose rationally ordered mind consolidated French classical tradition and practice.\n\nHis first independent publication was the hugely influential encyclopedic work, \"De la Distribution des Maisons de Plaisance, et de la Décoration des Edifices en General\", issued at Paris, 1737–38. It contained 155 carefully engraved plates. His \"Distribution des Maisons de Plaisance\" and other engraved work attracted a commission to produce thirteen of the engravings for the festival book commemorating the \"fêtes\" that celebrated the wedding of Madame Elizabeth of France with Dom Philippe of Spain, published in 1740.\n\nThat same year he opened his own private school in Paris, the \"École des Arts\", sanctioned by the Académie in 1743. In the ensuing years a long sequence of architects profited from his discourse: Boullée, Brongniart, Chalgrin, La Guêpière, Desprez, de Wailly, Gondoin, Ledoux, Guimard and Rondelet, and to foreigners who would bring Neoclassicism home with them: the Anglo-Swedish Sir William Chambers, and the Dane Caspar Frederik Harsdorff. \"Blondel was the most significant French architectural educator of the eighteenth century...his objective was to establish design principles for domestic architecture that correspond to the classical principles already in practice for civil structures\".\n\nIn his clear and rational \"Architecture françoise\", a four-volume work published from 1752 to 1756, he covered the past century and more of French buildings in and near Paris, setting them in their historical context and providing a wealth of detailed information that would otherwise have been lost. In the preface, he remarked, \"I have used simple terms and a popular style with the intention of being understood by layman and artist alike; having noticed that recent books about architecture are either badly organised or overlong.\" He originally planned eight volumes, but only the first four were published. The work brought him to official notice; he was inducted into the Académie Royale d'Architecture in 1755 and appointed architect to Louis XV.\n\nThough his executed body of work was small, mostly confined to work he executed at Metz under commission of the duc de Choiseul, his approach was soundly grounded: for Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" he wrote the article on masonry, as well as architecture, and contributed nearly 500 articles between 1751 and his death in 1774.\n\nIn 1762, he was appointed Professor of Architecture at the Académie, closing his own school and introducing his comprehensive curriculum to the Académie. His \"Cours d'architecture ou traité de la décoration, distribution et constructions des bâtiments contenant les leçons données en 1750, et les années suivantes\" began appearing in 1771 and ran to nine volumes by 1777, a volume of plates to each two volumes of text; the last volumes were seen through the press by his disciple Pierre Patte. His \"Cours d'architecture\" is sometimes referred to as the \"Petit Blondel\" to distinguish it from the \"Grand Blondel\", his \"Architecture françoise\".\nBlondel's practical, encyclopedic approach, largely ignoring the excesses of Rococo, had survived changes in taste and remained in the mainstream of French architectural training for several decades more.\n\nBlondel married Marie Anne Garnier in 1729. Their son, Georges-François Blondel, who was born in 1730, became an architectural engraver. They also had a daughter, Claudine Angelique. After his first wife's death in 1755, Jacques-François married Manon Balletti in 1760. Their son, Jean-Baptiste Blondel, who later became an architect for the city of Paris, was born in 1764. During his final illness, Jacques-François requested to be taken to his classrooms at the Louvre, where he died surrounded by his books, his architectural models, and his students.\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1744400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744400", "title": "Jamie Wyeth", "text": "Jamie Wyeth\n\nJames Browning Wyeth (born July 6, 1946) is a contemporary American realist painter, son of Andrew Wyeth, and grandson of N.C. Wyeth. He was raised in Chadds Ford Township, Pennsylvania, and is artistic heir to the Brandywine School tradition - painters who worked in the rural Brandywine River area of Delaware and Pennsylvania, portraying its people, animals, and landscape.\n\nJames Wyeth is the second child of Andrew and Betsy Wyeth, born three years after brother Nicholas, his only sibling. He was raised on his parents' farm \"The Mill\" in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, in much the same way as his father had been brought up, and with much the same influences. He demonstrated the same remarkable skills in drawing as his father had done at comparable ages. He attended public school for six years and then, at his request was privately tutored at home, so he could concentrate on art. His brother Nicholas would later become an art dealer.\n\nAt age 12, Jamie studied with his aunt Carolyn Wyeth, a well-known artist in her own right, and the resident at that time of the N. C. Wyeth House and Studio, filled with the art work and props of his grandfather. In the morning he studied English and history at his home, and in the afternoon joined other students at the studio, learning fundamentals of drawing and composition. He stated later, \"She was very restrictive. It wasn't interesting, but it was important.\" Through his aunt, Jamie developed an interest in working with oil painting, a medium he enjoyed at a sensory level: the look, smell and feel of it. Carolyn Wyeth and Howard Pyle were his greatest early influences in developing his technique in working with oil paint. While Jamie's work in watercolor was similar to his father's, his colors were more vivid.\n\nAs a boy, Jamie was exposed to art in many ways: the works of his talented family members, art books, attendance at exhibitions, meeting with collectors, and becoming acquainted with art historians. He also developed an offbeat sense of humor, sometimes veering to the macabre.\n\nFor at least three years in the early 1960s, when Wyeth was in his middle to late teens, Wyeth painted with his father. Of their close relationship, Wyeth has said: \"Quite simply, Andrew Wyeth is my closest friend—and the painter whose work I most admire. The father/son relationship goes out the window when we talk about one another's work. We are completely frank—as we have nothing to gain by being nice.\" At age 19 [about 1965] he traveled to New York City, to better study the artistic resources of the city and to learn human anatomy by visiting the city morgue.\n\nIn 1968, Wyeth married Phyllis Mills, daughter of Alice du Pont Mills and James P. Mills and one of his models. Although she had been permanently crippled in a car accident and used crutches (and later a motorized chair) to get around, Wyeth found her to be a strong, determined woman whose elusive nature meant that he continually discovered something new about her. Mills is the subject of many of his paintings (which usually depict her seated) including \"And Then into the Deep Gorge\" (1975), \"Wicker\" (1979), and \"Whale\" (1978), as well as, by implication, his painting of Phyllis’ hat in \"Wolfbane\" (1984).\n\nPhyllis had worked for John F. Kennedy when he was a senator and president. She has served on several boards, including \"the National Committee for Arts for the Handicapped (aka VSA (Kennedy Center), the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the Natural Resources Defense Council. A steeplechase rider when young, before her crippling accident, she later took over her parents' thoroughbred horse racing and breeding interests, winning the 2012 Belmont Stakes with Union Rags.\n\nIn the 1960s Jamie purchased the Lobster Cove property on Monhegan Island in Maine, which had previously been owned by Rockwell Kent, the famed American painter of modernist wilderness landscapes admired by his grandfather and succeeding generations. Jamie has painted many of the local people on Monhegan Island. He and his wife have a home at Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania on the Brandywine. In the 1990s his parents, Betsy and Andrew Wyeth, sold Jamie the Tenants Harbor Light on Southern Island in Maine that they had owned since 1978. As it provides him the solitude and subject matter he most enjoys for his work, most of his painting is done at Tenants Harbor; the rest is done at Chadds Ford. The light station has been inactive since 1933.\n\nEarly on, Wyeth became interested in oil painting, his grandfather's primary medium, although he is also adept in watercolor and tempera, his father's preferred media. In describing his aunt's way of thickly applying oil to her palette, he stated, \"I could eat it. Tempera never looked particularly edible. You have to love a medium to work in it. I love the feel and smell of oil.\"\n\nIn addition to studying his aunt's oil technique, he also admired his father’s and grandfather's work, and that of Howard Pyle, his grandfather’s teacher, as well as American masters Winslow Homer and Thomas Eakins. What inspired Wyeth most was not the subject matter or technique of his grandfather, but his \"sense of total personal involvement with and intuitive grasp of his subjects\". Jamie Wyeth adopted a wider palette of colors than his father’s, which was closer to his aunt’s and grandfather's color choices.\n\nWyeth's artistic reach is broader than his father's and grandfather's. He excels in drawing, lithography, etching, egg tempera, watercolor, and mixed media. Though grounded in this family’s artist tradition and subjects, and bound by the same solitude of his art, his wider travels and experiences have shaped a more rounded artist. In travels to Europe, he studied the Flemish and Dutch masters, and learned the intricate and exacting process of lithography, producing a substantial amount of graphic work.\n\nOn portrait painting, Wyeth stated, \"To me, a portrait is not so much the actual painting, but just spending the time with the person, traveling with him, watching him eat, watching him sleep. When I work on a portrait, it's really osmosis. I try to become the person I'm painting. A successful portrait isn't about the sitter's physical characteristics—his nose, eyeballs and whatnot—but more the mood and the overall effect. I try not to impose anything of mine on him. I try to get to the point where if the sitter painted, he'd paint a portrait just the way I'm doing it.\"\n\nLike his aunt Carolyn, Wyeth enjoys painting domestic animals, such as chickens, dogs, pigs, and horses. To do so, he pays particular attention to the texture of the animal's fur or feathers, the glossiness of its eye, the grass around its feet. To create the desired effects, he uses brushstrokes for texture and varnish for sheen. Wild birds that appear frequently in his work are the common seagull and the raven, the first of which also features in his \"Seven Deadly Sins\" series. Pumpkins also have appeared in several paintings, often carved into Jack-o-lanterns as if for Halloween. Other repeated subjects include the trunks of trees, and their exposed tangled roots, or tree stumps.\n\nSince the 1970s, Wyeth has often painted on corrugated cardboard, and now uses \"archival\" versions of the surface. He likes the rough striated effect it gives to his paintings, and he has also portrayed the material with great fidelity in depictions on conventional canvas, such as the painting \"10W30\" (1981), depicting a pair of chickens nesting in a discarded carton that once had held 10W30 grade engine oil. He also uses thick, opaque watercolor pigments, straight from the tube, creating effects similar to oil paints.\n\nTo evade interruptions by curious sightseers, Wyeth has resorted to painting outdoors in a weathered, smelly, used fish bait box, in the manner of a plywood hunting blind.\n\nWith advice from his father, always his closest friend but always frank, Wyeth quickly developed his technique and style. In 1963, at the age of 17, he painted \"Portrait of Shorty\", a bravura minutely detailed portrait of a local railroad worker. Shorty was a man who lived for twenty years in Chadds Ford, in a humble hut as a hermit, only speaking with a local store owner. The composition of an unshaven Shorty against an elegant wing chair is unexpected. Joyce Hill Stoner, art historian and paintings conservator, found it has the \"exactitude characteristic of sixteenth-century German oil technique.\"\n\nLincoln Kirstein, a family friend of the Wyeth family, was the subject of his first major portrait of a prominent person, titled appropriately, \"Portrait of Lincoln Kirstein\". Kirstein was impressed by the portrait, and declared Wyeth the finest American portrait painter since John Singer Sargent. Kerstein's quote made it into the catalog for his first one-man exhibition, at the Knoedler Gallery in New York in 1966. Landscapes and portraits of people from the Chadds Ford area were presented at the exhibit.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1971, Wyeth served in the Delaware Air National Guard. Although at one point he was scheduled for immediate deployment to the Vietnam War, flights were cancelled for noncombatants. During that period, he painted \"Adam and Eve and the C-97\" (1969), depicting the Biblical couple astonished by a Boeing C-97 Stratofreighter cargo plane flying overhead. The painting was executed using military-standard oil paint on a piece of parachute cloth measuring .\n\nHis assignment changed when he was granted top security clearance and took part in “Eyewitness to Space”, a program jointly sponsored by NASA and the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC, to depict the activities of the Apollo moon mission through an artist's perspective. A total of 47 artists were involved in the \"Eyewitness to Space\" program, including Robert Rauschenberg, Lamar Dodd, Norman Rockwell, and Morris Graves. Participants met astronauts at launch sites, such as Cape Kennedy, or rode helicopters to observe the pickup of astronauts. Of the works developed, the National Gallery of Arts chose 70 paintings, sculptures, and drawings for \"The Artist and Space\" exhibit that ran from December 1969 to early January 1970.\n\n\n\nOther noteworthy commissions in addition to Wyeth's portrait of JFK have been the design of a 1971 eight-cent Christmas stamp, the official White House Christmas cards for 1981 and 1984, and the Eunice Kennedy Shriver portrait for use on the 1995 Special Olympics World Summer Games Commemorative coin. He also lent his support to lighthouse preservation efforts in Maine in 1995 with his exhibition, \"Island Light\".\n\nWyeth has illustrated three children's books, \"The Stray\" (1979), written by his mother Betsy James Wyeth, \"Cabbages and Kings\" (1997), written by Elizabeth Seabrook., and \"Sammy in the Sky\" (2011) about the loss of a beloved dog, by Maine author Barbara Walsh.\n\nWyeth has also produced detailed miniature dioramas (called \"tableaux vivants\"), including two 2013 works: one portrays Andy Warhol dining with friends at The Factory, and another depicts Lincoln Kirstein and other friends dining at a New York restaurant. These works were exhibited in a 2014 retrospective show.\n\nWhen Wyeth had his first exhibition in New York in 1965, he received a scathing review by the \"New York Times\". His work was compared to that of his ancestors, neither of whom were considered contenders in the commercial business of modern art. Jamie Wyeth’s critics level some of the same charges as they do against his father—to some, both artists seem anachronistic, too close to illustration, and out of touch with the 20th century evolution of Post-Picasso modernism. He answers, \"We're charged, my father and I, with being a pack of illustrators. I've always taken it as a supreme compliment. What's wrong with illustration? There's this thing now that illustrations are sort of secondary to art and I think it's a bunch of crap.\"\n\nAccording to the Brandywine River Museum, \"James Wyeth had earned national attention with a posthumous portrait of John F. Kennedy and other work. Later, he produced striking portraits of Rudolf Nureyev and Andy Warhol, studies for which are in the museum's collection. Since then, Wyeth has established a distinctive style, characterized by strong images and sharp contrasts in his landscapes and portraits. He is known for his monumental animal portraits, including \"Portrait of Pig\" and \"Raven\" in the museum's collection, which represents various stages in his changing style.\"\n\nIn \"Jamie Wyeth: Proteus in Paint\" Joyce Hill Stoner said of Wyeth: Jamie Wyeth lives on his own terms with a healthy respect for his heritage and a unique ability to translate acute observations into a spectrum of visual experiences in an impressive range of styles from the laser-like intensity of \"Portrait of Shorty\" to the archetypal but ironic encrusted image of an animal friend in \"Portrait of Pig\" to the eerie painterly dreamscape of \"Comet\".\n\nAnn Morgan, author of \"Oxford Dictionary of American Art and Arts\", describes his style as one that follows the realistic style of his father, Andrew Wyeth, while venturing into \"more psychologically fraught territory\". When making portraits, Wyeth sees into the nature of an individual and portrays them with such detail and realism that the shocked subjects \"often hid them up in their closets\".\n\n\nJamie Wyeth’s works are in the collections of the Brandywine River Museum, the Farnsworth Art Museum, the Terra Museum of American Art, the National Gallery of Art, the National Portrait Gallery, the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.\n\nIn 1972 Wyeth was appointed a council member of the National Endowment for the Arts. In 1975 he became a member of the board of governors of the National Space Institute. He is a member of the National Academy of Design and the American Watercolor Society. He holds many honorary degrees including from Elizabethtown College (1975), Dickinson School of Law (1983), and Pine Manor College (1987).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17586011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17586011", "title": "Johan Messchaert", "text": "Johan Messchaert\n\nJohan Messchaert (22 August 18579 September 1922) was a Dutch baritone singer and vocal pedagogue.\n\nMesschaert was born as Johannes Martinus Messchaert in Hoorn, Netherlands. He was known for his rendering of the role of Christ in Bach's St Matthew Passion, and he sang the bass role at the 18 May 1902 Düsseldorf performance of Edward Elgar's \"The Dream of Gerontius\" under the direction of Julius Buths and alongside Muriel Foster.\n\nHe later founded his own conservatoire in Amsterdam.\n\nHe died in Küssnacht, Switzerland in 1922, aged 65.\n"}
{"id": "18948897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18948897", "title": "Joseph Renzulli", "text": "Joseph Renzulli\n\nJoseph Renzulli (born July 7, 1936) is an American educational psychologist. He is the Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor at the University of Connecticut's Neag School of Education.\n\nRenzulli graduated with a bachelor's degree from Rowan University. He earned a master in education degree from Rutgers University, and a doctorate from the University of Virginia.\n\nRenzulli is the Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor at the University of Connecticut's Neag School of Education, where he also serves as director of the National Research Center on the Gifted and Talented. His research has focused on the identification and development of creativity and giftedness in young people and on organizational models and curricular strategies for total school improvement. A focus of his work has been on applying the strategies of gifted education to the improvement of learning for all students. \n\nRenzulli developed the three-ring model of giftedness, which promoted a broadened conception of giftedness. He also developed the \"Schoolwide Enrichment Model\" for developing children's talents in schools. Renzulli is known for his contributions to understanding giftedness. He argues that high potential individuals may only turn their asset into talent if their environment encourages it.\n\nRenzulli is a Fellow in the American Psychological Association and was a consultant to the White House Task Force on Education of the Gifted and Talented. He established the UConn Mentor Connection program for gifted young students and the summer Confratute program at UConn in 1978, which has served thousands of teachers and administrators from around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7437711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437711", "title": "Kenneth Dupee Swan", "text": "Kenneth Dupee Swan\n\nKenneth Dupee Swan (1887–1970), more commonly known as K.D. Swan, was an American nature photographer in the early part of the 20th century. During his career in the USDA Forest Service (1911–1947) he took many picture of the American Northwest. Swan captured the face of public lands, revealing its wildness and value to the American public. His messages of long ago still emanate from his images - the value of conserving public lands and the joy of living in magnificent wild places.\n\nSwan first learned to love America's wilderness while rambling the hills of his native Massachusetts. His \"first love was a range of hills — the Blue Hills of Milton and Quincy — high points on the south rim of the Boston Basin.\" As he later described it, \"This was my wilderness, easily reached from home by bicycle, trolley, or even on foot, and here I spent countless carefree hours in all seasons... Here, too, was born a desire to become a forester ... a decision I have never regretted.\"\n\nHe arrived in Missoula, Montana in the summer of 1911. With a master's degree in Forestry from Harvard University, he was among a cadre of young energetic foresters who joined the newly created Forest Service where he was appointed as a forest assistant.\n\nHe surveyed homestead sites, planted trees, and cruised timber in the Jefferson National Forest (now Lewis and Clark), Sioux National Forest (now Custer), and Clearwater National Forest. In 1913, the agency reassigned him to the Northern Region headquarters in Missoula, where he began a seven-year stint as a topographic draftsman, an \"assignment which brought... great satisfaction.\" He spent the remainder of his career working out of the regional office.\n\nHis work in forestry eventually led into the arena of public information and photography. In the 1920s, the Forest Service established the Information and Education Branch. Already recognized as a photographer, Swan was soon transferred to it. Through his pictures and many public presentations, Swan revealed the unique beauty of remote, wild areas in Montana, Idaho, and the Dakotas.\n\nSwan's images were used to illustrate a great variety of Forest Service publications, many of which he also authored. They also appeared in publications ranging from \"National Geographic\" to \"The New York Times\" and \"The Christian Science Monitor\". Swan regularly toured the region giving lectures on forest conservation, illustrated by both still slides and moving pictures.\n\nBy Swan's retirement in 1947, his work had become art that transcended the mere recording of a place in time. Today, almost a century later, the photographs still engage and entrance viewers and tell a resounding story about public lands in the West. In 1968, he published \"Splendid Was the Trail\", a memoir that offered a detailed look at life and work in a remote, sparsely populated region during the formative years of the Forest Service.\n\nA collection of Swan's photographs is now in the National Archives in Washington, D.C., as well as in many exhibits throughout the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "40712342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40712342", "title": "LAUNCH (Innovation Challenge)", "text": "LAUNCH (Innovation Challenge)\n\nLAUNCH is a program sponsored by NASA, Nike, US Agency for International Development, and the US Department of State that seeks sustainable innovations through quasi-annual challenges, forums, and a business accelerator. The program began in 2010 and has since focused on themes such as energy, health, water, and waste solutions.\n\nLaunch was founded in 2010 by NASA, Nike, USAID, and the US Department of State. The inaugural event, LAUNCH: Water, was held at the NASA Kennedy Space Station in March 2010 and highlighted innovations and research related to water sustainability. Some of the innovations included bacterial water sensing, a floating contaminant sensor network, and evaporation-based underground irrigation technology.\n\nThe second LAUNCH forum, LAUNCH: Health, took place in October of that same year, also at the Kennedy Space Center. This challenge highlighted innovations in optimal nutrition (access, choice, and quality of nutritious food and required nutrients), primary preventive health care, and ways to improve fitness and lifestyle choices.\n\nThe LAUNCH: Energy forum took place in November 2011 at the Kennedy Space Center and highlighted innovations in sustainable energy systems. The forum featured innovations in fuel cell technology, electricity management, and clean cookstoves.\n\nLAUNCH Beyond waste took place in 2012 at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. This cycle highlighted nine innovations in the fields of waste-to-energy, ‘eWaste’, ‘upcycling’ and recycling, agricultural waste and conservation, medical waste, sustainable chemicals and materials, and improved sanitation. The forum also included sessions about how to accelerate these innovations towards real-world implementation.\n\nIn 2012, LAUNCH: Health Innovator Samuel Sia's company OPKO Health was awarded a contract to implement their diagnostic platform on the international space station. Numerous LAUNCH: Beyond Waste innovators were recognized for their projects in the fall of 2012. Joseph Aramburu was named one of Forbes 30 under 30 Social Entrepreneurs for project re:char and Ashnu Gupta was named India's Social Entrepreneur of the Year by the World Economic Forum for his company Goonj.Attero Recycling (India): Nitin Gupta - India's leading provider of end-to-end electronic and electrical goods e-Waste management servicesf\n\nIn May 2013 LAUNCH convened first the LAUNCH 2020 Summit in Beaverton Oregon, a two-day event showcasing unique approaches to sustainability challenges with over 150 companies, NGOs, academics, and manufacturers in attendance. The summit also unveiled the LAUNCH 2013 Challenge Statement.\n\nLAUNCH: Systems Forum will take place in September 2013 at the Jet Propulsion Lab and will have a focus on transforming fabrics manufacturing to increase equity and sustainability. In 2013 LAUNCH also accepted submissions for its first 'micro-challenge,' directed at student researchers and entrepreneurs. The Micro-Challenge has a focus on capturing data from the materials supply chain and using it to better understand the materials system. In 2013 LAUNCH was highlighted by Harvard's Ash Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation as one of the 'Top 25 Innovators in Government' putting it in contention for the Ford Foundation's 'Innovators In Government' Award unveilled in the fall of 2013. In May 2013, LAUNCH alumnus SEaB Energy won the Resource Revolution Award in the Category 'Energy from Waste.'\n"}
{"id": "58487145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58487145", "title": "La Casa de Beneficencia y Maternidad de La Habana", "text": "La Casa de Beneficencia y Maternidad de La Habana\n\nLa Casa de Beneficencia y Maternidad de La Habana, for 270 years, was Havana's repository for unwanted children. The House of Charity started during a time when Cuba was experiencing extreme poverty, unemployment, and corrupt government. Corrupt leaders were plundering the public treasuring and little attention was given to social assistance, health, education, or the protection of the poor: \"los desamparados\".\n\nThe Real Casa de Maternidad y Beneficencia emerged as a product of several transitions between \"La Casa Cuna,\" the \"Real Casa de Maternidad\" and finally \"La Casa de Beneficencia.\" It was not until 1794 during the government of Luis de las Casas that the Beneficencia was located in its final location at the corners of San Lazaro and Belascoain.\n\nThe Casa Cuna was founded in 1687 by Bishop Diego Evelino Hurtado de Compostela. His death left a building unfinished due to lack of resources to carry out his efforts. His successor, Bishop Fray Gerónimo de Nosti y Valdés, took up his idea and restored the Casa Cuna in a building he built on the corner of Oficios and Muralla. It housed 200 orphans. \n\nIn the year 1792 an initiative of the Countess of Jaruco, the Marquises of Cárdenas de Monte Hermoso, the Marquis of Casa Peñalver and the Bishop of the Provinces of Louisiana and Florida, Don Luis de Peñalver was founded the so-called \"Real Casa de Beneficencia.\" It accepted only females, settling in a cavalry room of land located in front of the San Lázaro cove, an area known as the Betancourt Garden that the Bishop of Peñalver gave for this purpose.\n\nAntonia María Menocal, a lady of Habana, left at the time of her death in 1830 a large legacy to be invested in charitable works. The executor assigned it to the creation of a Maternity House and for the preservation and education of children up to the age of six.\n\nMarcial Dupierris in 1857 writes:\nLa Casa de Maternidad was added to the Beneficiencia on the initiative of Spanish Governor-Gutierrez de la Concha, who administered the island from 1850 to 1852. The mission of La Casa de Maternida was to give refuge to those whose mothers had placed their child in the care of Beneficence. La Casa de Beneficencia y Maternidad was administered by the Sociedad Económica de Amigos del País.\n\nIn 1914 the State assumed the institution which continued to survive on the alms and the service of the Daughters of Charity of Cuba. \n\nThe Hermanos Ameijeiras Hospital, the largest health facility in the country was built in place of the former La Casa de Beneficencia.\n\nLa Casa de Beneficencia, along with the 1916 statute of General Antonio Maceo by the italian sculptor Doménico Boni, was one of three buildings, with the hotel Manhattan, by the U.S. Engineering firm of Purdy and Henderson, and the Hotel Vista Alegre at the beginning of Calle Belasquain, that anchored the large expanse of land that had been known as the Caleta de San Lazaro. The monument to Antonio Maceo was located in a place previously occupied by the Batería de la Reina (Battery of the Queen), in front of the La Casa de Beneficencia y Maternidad, at the intersection of Belascoaín and San Lázaro. In 1916 the monument was placed but the park was not built, many voices were raised asking that a greater tribute deserved be paid to the figure of Antonio Maceo. Kees van Tilburg writes:\n\n\"Beneficencia had two gates, the front that overlooked San Lázaro street with a large garden. The right part of that building (facing north), corresponded to the chapel that was always open to the public. To the left of the main entrance were the school offices followed by the barber shop and other workshops. The students were never in those gardens where there was only the possibility of a visual contact with them. The other gate that served as access to the vehicles only, was in the back of the school, that is, in Virtudes street between Belascoaín and Lucena. On the right (always facing north), part of the building was located dedicated to the classrooms and on its left was the hospital...This magnificent school was converted into a barracks...they took us out of there to turn it into the Antonio Maceo military school.\"\n\nAs the children had no last name upon entering the institution of charity, they were given the surname Valdés. It was Bishop Fray Gerónimo de Nosti y Valdés, the successor of Diego Evelino Hurtado de Compostela, who gave them his last name: Valdés. Bishop Fray Gerónimo de Nosti y Valdés is buried at Iglesia del Espíritu Santo, Havana in La Habana Vieja.\n\nThe mothers, who abandoned their child for economic reasons or because of the shame of being a single mother, could deliver it without showing their face or revealing their identity, Ciro Bianchi Ross writes: \"\"For that, in the side façade of the building that faced the Belascoaín road, there was the lathe, the infant was placed in it and the deposit was turned at the touch of a bell, and on the other side the abandoned child received a nun from the Sisters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul, a congregation that served that semiparticular institution that tried to supply the official lack of attention in its attempt to redeem evils that the State did not suppress or remedy ...\" \" The nuns were of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul (Hermanas de la Caridad de San Vicente de Paul), the congregation that served La Casa de Beneficencia.\n"}
{"id": "5906669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906669", "title": "Language-learning aptitude", "text": "Language-learning aptitude\n\nLanguage learning aptitude refers to the \"prediction of how well, relative to other individuals, an individual can learn a foreign language in a given amount of time and under given conditions\".\n\nAs with many measures of aptitude, language learning aptitude is thought to be relatively stable once a person matures. Many people show a remarkable learning aptitude for learning their language.\n\nSome high schools, universities or other institutions will interpret low language learning aptitude as a sign of a language learning disability. A pattern of evidence from several sources can help to diagnose a foreign language learning disability. Evidence can come from scoring poorly on language learning aptitude assessments, like the Modern Language Aptitude Test, Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery, Modern Language Aptitude Test – Elementary or Defense Language Aptitude Battery, while attaining average or above-average scores on aptitude assessments in other areas, like general intelligence. A history of scoring poorly on an array of language aptitude tests taken at the appropriate time (MLAT-E for grades 3–6, PLAB for grades 7–12, MLAT for adults) can provide even stronger evidence for a language learning disability. Evidence can also come from comparing a poor past performance in foreign language courses with average or above-average performance in other courses unrelated to language learning.\n\nLanguage aptitude is one of the important factors that determined L2 later learners' ultimate achievement, but it has less effect on L2 early learners.\n\nJohn B. Carroll, an influential psychologist in the field of educational linguistics, developed a theory about a cluster of four abilities that factored into language learning aptitude, separate from verbal intelligence and motivation. Using these four distinct abilities (phonetic coding ability, grammatical sensitivity, rote learning ability, and inductive learning ability), Carroll developed the MLAT, a language aptitude assessment for adults.\n\nThe four ability components are defined as follows:\n\nPaul Pimsleur, also known for the Pimsleur language learning system, spent time researching four factors that he believed to be related to language learning aptitude. Pimsleur included grade point average as an indication of general academic achievement as well as motivation in his factors. In addition, the verbal ability factor indicated how well a student would be able to handle the mechanics of learning a foreign language and the auditory factor indicated how well a student would be able to listen to and produce phrases in a foreign language. To test these four factors, Pimsleur developed the Pimsleur Language Aptitude Battery.\n\nMeasurements of language learning aptitude are used in many different ways. The United States Department of Defense uses a measurement of language learning aptitude, the Defense Language Aptitude Battery, to help place employees in positions that require them to learn a new language.\n\nGovernmental agencies use the MLAT as a tool to select and place employees in intensive language training programs. Businesses and missionaries use the MLAT to select, place and plan for language training. Universities, colleges and high schools use the MLAT to help in the diagnosis of foreign language learning disabilities. Although each institution has its own policy, many will waive a foreign language requirement in cases of a foreign language learning disability in favor of a history or linguistic course.\n\nSchools use the PLAB and MLAT-E to place students in suitable language courses, build a history of a foreign language learning difficulty, identify especially gifted students in respect to language learning and to match learning styles with instructional styles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20081258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20081258", "title": "Lisbon Astronomical Observatory", "text": "Lisbon Astronomical Observatory\n\nThe Lisbon Astronomical Observatory () is an astronomical observatory located in \"Tapada da Ajuda\", in the civil parish of Alcântara, municipality of Lisbon. Recognized internationally for its quality of work in the field of positioning astronomy (since the 19th century), in 1992, it became a dependency of the University of Lisbon (and later, part of the Faculty of Sciences), responsible for scientific and historical research, along with media relations.\n\nFrom an 1812 map, there existed in the \"Alto da Casa Branca\" in the Tapada of Ajuda an older observatory.\n\nThe observatory was born from great controversy between French astronomer Hervé Faye (1814-1902), then director of the Observatory of Paris, and Peters, an astronomer at the Russian Observatory of Pulkova, on the parallax of the star of Argelander. The construction of the Lisbon observatory was due to a strong desire to build an institution that was a reference in Portuguese culture. It was established in the mid-19th century with the aim of promoting new Sidereal Astronomy, discovery and understanding of the infinite cosmos, and concern about the exact mapping of the sky and measuring the size of the universe. In 1850, Hervé Faye and Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve (1793-1864) proposed that astronomical observations should be taken in Lisbon, being the first and \"unique locale in all of continental Europe that the zenithal telescope could encounter the marvelous Argelander star\". In order to do so, it was necessary to build a new observatory where you could install the appropriate equipment. The Count of Lavradio proposed that the government's chamber of peers should acquire Faye's telescope.\n\nThe government named a commission, presided by José Feliciano da Silva Costa (1797-1866) and driven by Filipe Folque (1800-1874), to construct a new observatory, since the Royal Military Observatory () did not have the conditions. In January 1857, King D. Pedro V destined 30 contos de réis to the construction of the observatory and decreed a new commission, managed by Filipe Folque. The commission thought, initially, of constructing the new building in the Prince Royal's garden, then alternately in the Parque Eduardo VII and later the Tapada da Ajuda.\n\nThe plan of the building, executed by the French architect architects Jean François Gille Colson (1861-1865), José da Costa Sequeira (1800-1872) and Valentim José Correia (1822-1900) (then the most distinguished foreign architect living in Lisbon), was inspired by the building of the Russian Observatory in Pulkova. Wilhelm Struve, then-director at Pulkova offered his services to the Portuguese government and became the main adviser, playing a very important role in the choice of equipment and the orientation of astronomer Frederico Augusto Oom (1830-1890), who was given a rough 5-year training session. Oom, was as a Navy Lieutenant and hydrographic engineer, who eventually became the first director of the Royal Astronomical Observatory of Lisbon and who ultimately had a very important role in the whole foundation of this building.\n\nD. Pedro V approved the installation of the astronomic observatory in the Tapada, but its construction started on 11 March 1861, during the reign of King Luis I. The King also contributed to the fund, withdrawing money from his personal budget for the project. The observatory would have been erected in the \"Alto da Casa Branca\", the locale of the older observatory, but was actually situated in the \"Alto da Eira Velha\". Construction work was completed in 1867 and the first observations began at the site between 1867 and 1869. The Lisbon Astronomical Observatory was formally established by decree on 6 May 1878.\n\nBetween 1900 and 1901, the observatory participated in the solar parallax campaign, centered on the observations of the asteroid Eros, using a circular meridian measuring instrument to improve the value of the Astronomical unit. It also contributed to production of a high-quality catalogue of reference stars; the observatory contributed with data and weight to all 3800 observations used in the catalogue. For this work, in 1904, its director César Augusto de Campos Rodrigues (1836-1919), received the Valz Prize, by the French Academy of Sciences in Paris.\n\nIn 1995, the observatory was integrated into the University of Lisbon. The first renovations began in the cupola of the rotational tower in 1999.\n\nFrom May 2004, the investigation project \"Fundamentação de Critérios para a Musealização do Observatório Astronómico de Lisboa\", financed by FCT (POCTI/HAR/48711/2002) and under the University of Lisbon's Faculty of Sciences and UTL's Faculty of Architecture.\n\nThe Lisbon Astronomical Observatory consists of a central building in the hills of Ajuda and overlooking the Tejo river, and two small cupolas in the south containing instruments. Besides the central cupola there are three rooms for astronomical observations, equipped with instruments (the best for the time) and windows for observation.\n\nThe central block of the observatory (a circular room) supports the weight of the large equatorial refractor over 8 large columns. In arches between the columns are many pendulum clock used over the century to measure the time. At the foot of the large windows (with a view over the Tapada da Ajuda) are wide tables, used by astronomers to assist in their research/investigation. In addition, there are spacious halls linking the central block, used for lessons, taking measurements and research, today used as workshops and support school educational activities.\n\nThe three observation rooms are spacious and high, lined in wood, with open space between the wainscoting and the walls of masonry and roofing. This space communicates with the outside world through gaps that are constantly open. There are roofs of rooms in stacks of circulation, and this permanent ventilation is there in order to establish the balance of air temperature in the rooms and beyond, as it is convenient to the accuracy of observations. The wooden wainscoting providing thermal insulation, apart from being a 100% ecological product, which provides the user with a friendlier environment compared to other substitute materials. The rooms provide openings in the lateral walls and in the ceiling, through doors, thanks to an ingenious mechanism. Once the doors open once they give you an insight to the sky, according to the meridian of Lisbon, from north to south.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21177239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21177239", "title": "Marcelo Barbosa", "text": "Marcelo Barbosa\n\nMarcelo Barbosa (born in 1975) is a Brazilian guitar player and music professor. He is a founder or member of a few important Brazilian bands like progressive metal act Khallice and former Angra vocalist Edu Falaschi's band Almah. He also is a founder and an owner of a large musical institute in his home city Brasília called GTR, a columnist of the Cover Guitarra, Guitar Class and Guitar Player magazines and an Expo Music (Brazil) and NAMM (US) musical exhibitions participant. Endorser of Tagima guitars. Since September 2015, he also joined Angra, replacing Kiko Loureiro, who is now a member of Megadeth.\n\nBarbosa began playing electric guitar when he was 11 years old. He was studying with several teachers, mainly with Allan Marshall. At 17 years old he already was a professional musician and a musical teacher in two musical schools in his home city Brasília. He then decided to establish his own one, focused on the electric guitar. Besides organizing work and managing other teachers, Barbosa established his own entire approach instead of copying or adapting any already existed one and he wrote all the didactic material.<ref name=\"Almah/M. Barbosa for Spirit Of Metal\"></ref>\n\nBarbosa also attended classes and workshops of musicians like Greg Howe, Lula Galvão, Hélio Delmiro, Toninho Horta, Guinga, Ian Guest among others. In 2002 he finished summer courses in the famous Berklee College of Music. As a result he was chosen with other 11 students to receive a scholarship for the college's regular course. However, it was not possible to continue due to GTR and his other responsibilities.\n\nSome time before that Barbosa became a member of Brasília pop rock band Zero10. They released an EP and a full-length album \"Novo Dia\" and they play almost every week at different venues of the capital of Brazil. Later on, he would restart the band Khallice, which played the progressive metal he always liked.<ref name=\"Almah/M. Barbosa for Terroraiser\"></ref>\n\nIn September 2007, Barbosa was invited to join the band Almah formed by some members of Angra and he went into a national tour with the band. By spring 2008 the line-up of Almah was finally established. In the end of April 2008 the recording of new Almah album \"Fragile Equality\" started at Norcal studios (São Paulo) and finished in July 2008.\n\nBarbosa writes articles for important guitar magazines in Brazil like Guitar Class, Cover Guitarra and Guitar Player. Some time ago Barbosa wrote a book about technique to the \"Toque de Mestre\" series, published by HMP.\n\nBarbosa is endorsed by Tagima, Elixir Strings, Nig pedals and Ibox. On Expomusic 2006 (a big musical exhibition in São Paulo) one of the most important guitar brands in Brazilian market TAGIMA released new MB-1, the guitar designed with Barbosa's specifications, which belongs to the select team of \"Signature Series\" of the company.\n\nNowadays his institute GTR is one of the biggest guitar schools in Latin America. GTR have already graduated over 4.000 students, with more than 600 people studying in two different units of GTR (Asa Norte and Asa Sul). Besides electric guitar, there are the courses of vocals, acoustic guitar, production, musical business and others. A number of events are frequently organized by GTR like festivals and workshops with musicians like Sidney Carvalho, Kiko Loureiro, Edu Ardanuy among others. To its 10th anniversary, GTR released a special 14 tracks CD recorded by some of the most prominent teachers.\n\nMarcelo Barbosa (guitars): GTR is a project I've worked already for twelve years at. It began like a guitar Institute but now we have classes for bassists, vocalists and acoustic guitar players too. I’m responsible for all the didactic material of the guitar course and we have more than six hundred students in three schools. Four years ago I decided to franchise GTR and some people got interested and now we have three schools in Brasília. (...) It is relatively big. We have many students and it’s growing up year by year. We try to teach music, not only one specific style or genre. Rock, Metal, Jazz, Country and Brazilian music is some of the approaches here.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "779795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779795", "title": "Marie Taglioni", "text": "Marie Taglioni\n\nMarie Taglioni, Comtesse Gilbert de Voisins (23 April 1804 – 22 April 1884) was a Swedish ballet dancer of the Romantic ballet era, a central figure in the history of European dance. She was one of the most celebrated ballerinas of the romantic ballet, which was cultivated primarily at Her Majesty's Theatre in London, and at the Théâtre de l'Académie Royale de Musique of the Paris Opera Ballet. She is credited with (though not confirmed) being the first ballerina to truly dance \"en pointe\".\n\nTaglioni was born in Stockholm, Sweden, to Italian choreographer Filippo Taglioni and Swedish ballet dancer Sophie Karsten, maternal granddaughter of the Swedish opera singer Christoffer Christian Karsten and of the Polish opera singer and actress Sophie Stebnowska. Her brother, Paul (1808–1884), was also a dancer and an influential choreographer; they performed together early in their careers.\n\nTaglioni was married to Comte Auguste Gilbert de Voisins on 14 July 1832, but separated in 1836. She later fell in love with Eugene Desmares, a loyal fan, who had defended her honor in a duel. Desmares and Taglioni gave birth to a child (illegitimate) in 1836. Three years later Desmares died in a hunting accident. In 1842 she gave birth to her second child. It is unknown who the father is even though the birth certificate states the father as Gilbert de Voisins. Taglioni's children's names were Georges Gilbert and Eugenie-Marie-Edwige.\n\nTaglioni moved to Vienna with her family at a very young age where she began her ballet training under the direction of Jean-Francois Coulon and her father. After Filippo was appointed the ballet master at the court opera in Vienna there was a decision that Marie would debut in the Habsburg capital. Even though Marie had trained with Coulon, her technique was not up to the standards that would impress the Viennese audiences. Her father then created a rigorous six-month training regimen for his daughter where she would hold positions for 100 counts. The training was conducted daily and consisted of two hours in the morning with difficult exercises focusing on her legs and two hours in the afternoon focusing on adagio movements that would help her refine poses in ballet. Taglioni had a rounded back that caused her to lean forward and had slightly distorted proportions. She worked hard to disguise her physical limitations by increasing range of motion and developing her strength. Taglioni focused her energy on her shape and form to the audience and less on bravura tricks and pirouettes. In Vienna, Marie danced her first ballet choreographed by her father titled \"La Reception d'une Jeune Nymphe à la Cour de Terpsichore\". \n\nBefore joining the Paris Opéra, Taglioni danced in both Munich and Stuttgart, and at age 23 debuted in another ballet choreographed by her father called \"La Sicilien\" that jump-started her ballet career. Taglioni rose to fame as a \"danseuse\" at the Paris Opéra when her father created the ballet \"La Sylphide\" (1832) for her. Designed as a showcase for Taglioni's talent, it was the first ballet where dancing \"en pointe\" had an aesthetic rationale and was not merely an acrobatic stunt, often involving ungraceful arm movements and exertions, as had been the approach of dancers in the late 1820s. \n\nIn 1837 Taglioni left the Ballet of Her Majesty's Theatre to take up a three-year contract in Saint Petersburg with the Imperial Ballet (known today as the Kirov/Mariinsky Ballet). It was in Russia after her last performance in the country (1842) and at the height of the \"cult of the ballerina\", that a pair of her pointe shoes were sold for two hundred rubles, reportedly to be cooked, served with a sauce and eaten by a group of balletomanes.\n\nIn July 1845, she danced with Lucile Grahn, Carlotta Grisi, and Fanny Cerrito in Jules Perrot's \"Pas de Quatre\", a ballet representing Taglioni’s ethereal qualities that was based on Alfred Edward Chalon’s lithographic prints. \"Pas de Quatre\" was originally choreographed to be presented to Queen Victoria.\n\nTaglioni retired from performing in 1847; for a time she took up residence at the Ca' d'Oro on the Grand Canal in Venice. When the ballet of the Paris Opéra was reorganized on stricter, more professional lines, she was its guiding spirit. With the director of the new \"Conservatoire de danse\", Lucien Petipa, and Petipa's former pupil, the choreographer Louis Mérante, she figured on the six-member select jury of the first annual competition for the corps de ballet, held 13 April 1860.\n\nHer only choreographic work was \"Le papillon\" (1860) for her student Emma Livry, who is remembered for dying in 1863 when her costume was set alight by a gas lamp used for stage lighting. Johann Strauss II composed the \"Marie Taglioni Polka\" (Op. 173) in honour of Marie Taglioni's niece, Marie \"Paul\" Taglioni, also known as \"Marie the Younger\". The two women, having the same name, have often been conflated, or confused with each other.\n\nLater in England, she taught social dance and ballroom to children and society ladies in London; she also took a limited number of ballet pupils. She resided at #14 Connaught Square, London from 1875 to 1876.\n\nTaglioni died in Marseille on 22 April 1884, the day before her 80th birthday. Her body was moved to Paris. There is some debate over whether she is buried in Montmartre or in Père Lachaise, or if the grave Montmartre site belongs to her mother. The local dancers began leaving their worn pointe shoes on the Montmartre grave as a tribute and thanks to the first pointe dancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15482511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15482511", "title": "Mary Goodhew", "text": "Mary Goodhew\n\nMary Goodhew was the Artistic Director of Elmhurst School for Dance in Edgbaston, Birmingham, until she left to become director of Legat Ballet in July 2008, taking up that post in September 2008.\n\nAs a child she studied ballet in Kent with Rita Emmerson, (a former pupil of Enrico Cecchetti the Ballet Master to Diaghilev's Ballet Russes) until she was sixteen. She was a Cecchetti Society Scholar and was awarded the Cyril Beaumont Scholarship to the Royal Ballet Upper School.\n\nWhile still a student she danced with The Royal Ballet at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden and on their overseas tours. After graduation she joined Sadler's Wells Royal Ballet, (now Birmingham Royal Ballet).\n\nShe has studied ballet training methods in Russia, Europe, USA and Canada. She was invited to assess the Royal Winnipeg Ballet School for Canada Council and was an ISTD Cecchetti Examiner in Canada and the UK.\n\nPast posts held include: \n\nShe contributes a series of articles on ballet instruction for the \"Dancing Times\", entitled \"The Making of a Dancer\", which are later reprinted on the Birmingham Royal Ballet website.\n\n"}
{"id": "1103041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103041", "title": "Music examination", "text": "Music examination\n\nMusic examinations are a method of formally assessing the accomplishments of pupils learning musical instruments. These are called grades.\n\nAlthough there are music examinations available to school and university students alongside other regular qualifications and assessments, there are also a number of independent bodies who solely provide assessment in musical ability which are open to all.\n\nTrinity College London was the first organization to offer examinations in music to external students in 1877. As of 2012, Trinity College London conducts around 600,000 assessments worldwide per year, as does the Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music. Other examination boards based in the UK include the London College of Music, Victoria College of Music and Drama, the National College of Music and Rockschool.\n\nMany students who enter these exams have taken a course of music lessons with a private tutor, although some are self-taught. Often this is a way for children to receive music training over and above what is provided at their usual place of learning, although private lessons are also popular with adults who turn to music later in life.\n\nMusic exams are set in both theory and practical aspects. The theory examinations are taken by pupils of all instruments and typically cover areas such as musical notation, construction of scales and composition.\n\nThe practical exams concentrate on the particular instrument favored by the pupil, for example piano, guitar or flute. They cover elements such as playing set pieces, technical work including scales, sight reading, aural, musical knowledge and improvisation.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the music exams are graded from 1 to 8, with Grade 1 being the entry level, and Grade 8 being the standard required for entry to higher study in a music college. Additionally, Trinity College London offers an Initial level qualification at Entry Level 3 of the UK Qualifications and Credit Framework, and ABRSM offer a Prep Test qualification as a useful preparation before the Grade 1 exam. LCM offers two Step exams at this level and VCM offers four Introductory grades aimed at those in the first 18 months of learning.\n\nOther reputable music examination boards offering examinations on musical instruments and music theory include:\n\nDifferent music examination boards may have different grade levels for instruments and music theory examination. Depending on how they are recognised by regulatory bodies such as Ofqual, examination results or credits may be transferable from one exam board to the other.\n\n musiCEA International Music Exams Board\n\nmusiCEA International Music Exams Board\n"}
{"id": "1476297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476297", "title": "Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund", "text": "Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund\n\nThe Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund () is a government agency that allocates loans and grants to Norwegian and certain foreign students for their education. Lånekassen was established in 1947. \n\nLånekassen is organised under the Ministry of Education and Research (Kunnskapsdepartementet). The Ministry decides the regulations for the allocation of financial support, and for the repayment of loans.\n\nLånekassen’s objectives for educational support are\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11772384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11772384", "title": "Pro shop", "text": "Pro shop\n\nA pro shop is a sporting-goods shop within a public or private-membership amateur sporting activities facility of some kind, most commonly a golf course, where it will typically be located in the country club building. In the case of golf pro shops, such stores usually provide equipment such as golf balls, clubs, shoes, and tees, as well as golf-themed gift items, and sometimes snacks or refreshments.\n\nAside from golf courses, pro shops are also frequently found at bowling alleys, pool and snooker halls, tennis and racquetball courts, ice and roller hockey rinks, and football (soccer) facilities. Some American football teams, such as the Green Bay Packers and New England Patriots, offer team merchandise and replica apparel for purchase through team stores branded as \"pro shops\", either at a store at the team's stadium, a separate shop located in another venue such as a shopping mall, or through an online shopping portal.\n\nPro shops are often managed by a house pro, a professional player, and overseen by a General Manager who is employed by or acts as a consultant contractor to the venue, though shops may instead be run by a retail manager at larger venues (or those too small to attract a pro). House pros are often available to advise on game-related issues such as rules details or the proper equipment for particular needs and conditions, and sometimes also for instruction such as group lessons or one-on-one training (usually for a fee). House pros sometimes also perform paid personal equipment maintenance, such as restringing tennis racquets, drilling and fitting bowling balls, re-tipping pool/snooker cues, skate sharpening, etc., depending upon the sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "33002565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33002565", "title": "Random Family", "text": "Random Family\n\nRandom Family: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx is a 2003 narrative non-fiction study of urban life by American writer Adrian Nicole LeBlanc.\n\nThe book, LeBlanc's first, took more than 10 years to research and write. \"Random Family\" is a nonfiction account of the struggles of two women and their family as they deal with love, drug dealers, babies and prison time in the Bronx. LeBlanc began the long period of research after reporting on a piece in \"Newsday\" about the trial of \"a hugely successful heroin dealer\" named Boy George.\n\n\"Random Family\" was enthusiastically received by critics. In \"The New York Times\", critic Janet Maslin described LeBlanc's work as \"a book that exerts the fascination of a classic, unflinching documentary.\" Mark Kramer, director of the Nieman Foundation Program on Narrative Journalism at Harvard University, praised the book's \"relentless neutrality.\" In \"The New York Times Book Review,\" Margaret Talbot wrote, \"The conventional compliment to pay a work of narrative nonfiction is to say that it's 'novelistic' or that it 'reads like fiction.' You could certainly say that of 'Random Family,' and yet there are tasks a writer like LeBlanc must accomplish that are different, and in some ways more difficult, than a novelist's. For one thing, she must remain cleareyed about people to whom she owes a tremendous debt of gratitude for admitting her into the intimacies of their lives. And for another, she must hew to a plotline that is often stuttering and circular and decidedly lacking in resolution. None of the people she writes about veer definitively toward a newer or better life — they tend toward the same tired grooves — yet she makes their stories riveting\"; Talbot called LeBlanc's work, \"An extraordinary book.\"\n\nLeBlanc and \"Random Family\" garnered several awards and nominations. Her research methods earned her a spot among several other journalists and nonfiction writers in Robert Boynton's book, \"The New New Journalism.\" In 2006, LeBlanc received a MacArthur Fellowship, more popularly known as a \"Genius Grant\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49862784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49862784", "title": "Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing", "text": "Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing\n\nThe Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing is a conference designed to promote diversity, connect undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, researchers, and professionals in computing from all backgrounds and ethnicities. The conferences are organized by the Coalition to Diversify Computing (CDC), sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), and presented by the Center for Minorities and People with Disabilities in Information Technology (CMD-IT). The conferences are named after Professor Richard Tapia. Tapia is an internationally acclaimed scientist, a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the first recipient of the Computing Research Association's A. Nico Habermann Award for outstanding contributions to aiding members of underrepresented groups within the computing community, a member of the National Science Board, and recipient of the Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring from President Bill Clinton.\n\nThe Richard Tapia Celebration consists of three tracks: technical sessions, professional development, and broadening participation. These three tracks include Birds of a Feather sessions, workshops, panels, posters, and a Doctoral Consortium. Since 2017, the Celebration also serves as one of the ACM Student Research Competition sites.\nThe Richard A. Tapia Achievement Award for Scientific Scholarship, Civic Science and Diversifying Computing is awarded at the Celebration to individuals who have made significant contributions to broadening participation in computer science.\n\nPast recipients:\n\nPast conferences include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56413516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413516", "title": "Ruth Karr McKee", "text": "Ruth Karr McKee\n\nRuth Karr McKee (March 28, 1874 – 1951) was for several years a member of the Board of Regents, University of Washington. \n\nRuth Karr was born in Hoquiam, Washington, on March 28, 1874, the daughter of James Karr and Abigail Boutwell Walker (b. 1840), and granddaughter of Presbyterian missionaries Mary Richardson (1811-1897) and Elkanah Walker (1805-1877). \n\nIn 1895 she obtained a B. A. and an M. A. from University of Washington. She was part of the sororities Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Lambda Theta, Phi Sigma Gamma.\n\nShe was President of the Washington State Federarion of Women's Clubs from 1913 to 1915. She was Director of the General Federation in 1916. She was Member of the State Council of Defense from 1917 to 1919. She was Member of Board of Regents of the University of Washington from 1917 to 1926, and president of Board in 1923. \n\nShe was also member of: American Association of University Women, Round Robin Club, Longview Community Service Club, Mary Richardson Walker Chapter, Daughter of the American Revolution, American Academy of Political and Social Science, National Economic League. \n\nShe married James S. McKee, Honolulu, on May 6, 1902, and lived at Longview, Washington.\n\nShe is the author of \"Mary Richardson Walker: Her Book\" (1945). The Walkers were one of six couples sent by the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to the Oregon Mission. The Walkers and the Eells established the mission at Tshimakain, near the present day town of Ford, Washington, to work with the Spokane Indians. The Walkers later moved to the Willamette Valley of Oregon.\n\nShe died in 1951.\n\nThe \"Ruth Karr McKee Papers 1941-1943\" are hosted at the Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections division of the Washington State University Libraries.\n"}
{"id": "32855596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32855596", "title": "Ruth Kilbourn", "text": "Ruth Kilbourn\n\nRuth Kilbourn was a Chicago-area dancer and dance teacher, born 1895. She was educated by prominent dance instructors in Chicago and appeared on Broadway and in the Chicago Opera House. A back injury forced her to end her performance career at a young age, but she cultivated a large following through her dance studio, the Kilbourn School of Dance. She tutored young dancers both in her home and in public schools throughout the city. Ruth Kilbourn's extensive work in the Chicago community also extended to animals, as she willed her home to the Chicago Anti-Cruelty Society upon her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "3437663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437663", "title": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics", "text": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics\n\nScience, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), previously Science, Math, Engineering and Technology (SMET), is a term used to group together these academic disciplines. This term is typically used when addressing education policy and curriculum choices in schools to improve competitiveness in science and technology development. It has implications for workforce development, national security concerns and immigration policy.\n\nThe acronym came into common use shortly after an interagency meeting on science education held at the US National Science Foundation chaired by the then NSF director Rita Colwell.\nA director from the Office of Science division of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists, Peter Faletra, suggested the change from the older acronym SMET to STEM. Colwell, expressing some dislike for the older acronym, responded by suggesting NSF institute the change. However, the acronym STEM predates NSF and likely traces its origin to Charles Vela, the founder and director of the Center for the Advancement of Hispanics in Science and Engineering Education (CAHSEE). In the early 1990's CAHSEE started a summer program for talented under-represented students in the Washington, DC area called the STEM Institute. Based on the program's recognized success and his expertise in STEM education, Charles Vela was asked to serve on numerous NSF and Congressional panels in science, mathematics and engineering education; it is through this manner that NSF was first introduced to the acronym STEM. One of the first NSF projects to use the acronym was STEMTEC, the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Teacher Education Collaborative at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, which was founded in 1998.\n\n\nIn the United States, the acronym began to be used in education and immigration debates in initiatives to begin to address the perceived lack of qualified candidates for high-tech jobs. It also addresses concern that the subjects are often taught in isolation, instead of as an integrated curriculum. Maintaining a citizenry that is well versed in the STEM fields is a key portion of the public education agenda of the United States. The acronym has been widely used in the immigration debate regarding access to United States work visas for immigrants who are skilled in these fields. It has also become commonplace in education discussions as a reference to the shortage of skilled workers and inadequate education in these areas. The term tends not to refer to the non-professional and less visible sectors of the fields, such as electronics assembly line work.\n\nMany organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field. The NSF uses a broader definition of STEM subjects that includes subjects in the fields of chemistry, computer and information technology science, engineering, geosciences, life sciences, mathematical sciences, physics and astronomy, social sciences (anthropology, economics, psychology and sociology), and STEM education and learning research. Eligibility for scholarship programs such as the CSM STEM Scholars Program use the NSF definition.\n\nThe NSF is the only American federal agency whose mission includes support for all fields of fundamental science and engineering, except for medical sciences. Its disciplinary program areas include scholarships, grants, fellowships in fields such as biological sciences, computer and information science and engineering, education and human resources, engineering, environmental research and education, geosciences, international science and engineering, mathematical and physical sciences, social, behavioral and economic sciences, cyberinfrastructure, and polar programs.\n\nAlthough many organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field, the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has its own functional definition used for immigration policy. In 2012, DHS or ICE announced an expanded list of STEM designated-degree programs that qualify eligible graduates on student visas for an optional practical training (OPT) extension. Under the OPT program, international students who graduate from colleges and universities in the United States are able to remain in the country and receive training through work experience for up to 12 months. Students who graduate from a designated STEM degree program can remain for an additional 17 months on an OPT STEM extension.\n\nAn exhaustive list of STEM disciplines does not exist because the definition varies by organization. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement lists disciplines including physics, actuarial science, chemistry, biology, mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, computational science, psychology, biochemistry, robotics, computer engineering, electrical engineering, electronics, mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, information science, information technology, civil engineering, aerospace engineering, chemical engineering, astrophysics, astronomy, optics, nanotechnology, nuclear physics, mathematical biology, operations research, neurobiology, biomechanics, bioinformatics, acoustical engineering, geographic information systems, atmospheric sciences, educational/instructional technology, software engineering, and educational research.\n\nBy cultivating an interest in the natural and social sciences in preschool or immediately following school entry, the chances of STEM success in high school can be greatly improved. School integration can help black, Hispanic and aboriginal students catch up with Asian and white students.\n\nSTEM supports broadening the study of engineering within each of the other subjects, and beginning engineering at younger grades, even elementary school. It also brings STEM education to all students rather than only the gifted programs. In his 2012 budget, President Barack Obama renamed and broadened the \"Mathematics and Science Partnership (MSP)\" to award block grants to states for improving teacher education in those subjects.\n\nIn the 2015 run of the international assessment test the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), American students came out 35th in mathematics, 24th in reading and 25th in science, out of 109 countries. The United States also ranked 29th in the percentage of 24-year-olds with science or mathematics degrees. \n\nSTEM education often uses new technologies such as RepRap 3D printers to encourage interest in STEM fields.\n\nIn 2006 the United States National Academies expressed their concern about the declining state of STEM education in the United States. Its Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy developed a list of 10 actions. Their top three recommendations were to:\n\nThe National Aeronautics and Space Administration also has implemented programs and curricula to advance STEM education in order to replenish the pool of scientists, engineers and mathematicians who will lead space exploration in the 21st century.\n\nIndividual states, such as California, have run pilot after-school STEM programs to learn what the most promising practices are and how to implement them to increase the chance of student success. Another state to invest in STEM education is Florida, where Florida Polytechnic University, Florida’s first public university for engineering and technology dedicated to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), was established. During school, STEM programs have been established for many districts throughout the U.S. Some states include New Jersey, Arizona, Virginia, North Carolina, Texas, and Ohio.\n\nContinuing STEM education has expanded to the post-secondary level through masters programs such as the University of Maryland's STEM Program as well as the University of Cincinnati.\n\nIn the United States, the National Science Foundation found that the average science score on the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress was lower for black and Hispanic students than white, Asian, and Pacific Islanders. In 2011, eleven percent of the U.S. workforce was black, while only six percent of STEM workers were black. Though STEM in the U.S. has typically been dominated by white males, there have been considerable efforts to create initiatives to make STEM a more racially and gender diverse field. Some evidence suggests that all students, including black and Hispanic students, have a better chance of earning a STEM degree if they attend a college or university at which their entering academic credentials are at least as high as the average student's.\n\nIn the State of the Union Address on January 31, 2006, President George W. Bush announced the American Competitiveness Initiative. Bush proposed the initiative to address shortfalls in federal government support of educational development and progress at all academic levels in the STEM fields. In detail, the initiative called for significant increases in federal funding for advanced R&D programs (including a doubling of federal funding support for advanced research in the physical sciences through DOE) and an increase in U.S. higher education graduates within STEM disciplines.\n\nThe \"NASA Means Business\" competition, sponsored by the Texas Space Grant Consortium, furthers that goal. College students compete to develop promotional plans to encourage students in middle and high school to study STEM subjects and to inspire professors in STEM fields to involve their students in outreach activities that support STEM education.\n\nThe National Science Foundation has numerous programs in STEM education, including some for K–12 students such as the ITEST Program that supports The Global Challenge Award ITEST Program. STEM programs have been implemented in some Arizona schools. They implement higher cognitive skills for students and enable them to inquire and use techniques used by professionals in the STEM fields.\n\nThe STEM Academy is a national nonprofit-status organization dedicated to improving STEM literacy for all students. It represents a recognized national next-generation high-impact academic model. The practices, strategies, and programming are built upon a foundation of identified national best practices which are designed to improve under-represented minority and low-income student growth, close achievement gaps, decrease dropout rates, increase high school graduation rates and improve teacher and principal effectiveness. The STEM Academy represents a flexible use academic model that targets all schools and is for all students.\n\nProject Lead The Way (PLTW) is a leading provider of STEM education curricular programs to middle and high schools in the United States. The national nonprofit organization has over 5,200 programs in over 4,700 schools in all 50 states. Programs include a high school engineering curriculum called \"Pathway To Engineering\", a high school biomedical sciences program, and a middle school engineering and technology program called \"Gateway To Technology\". PLTW provides the curriculum and the teacher professional development and ongoing support to create transformational programs in schools, districts, and communities. PLTW programs have been endorsed by President Barack Obama and United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan as well as various state, national, and business leaders.\n\n\"The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Coalition\" works to support STEM programs for teachers and students at the U. S. Department of Education, the National Science Foundation, and other agencies that offer STEM-related programs. Activity of the STEM Coalition seems to have slowed since September 2008.\n\nIn 20102, the Boy Scouts of America began handing out awards, titled NOVA and SUPERNOVA, for completing specific requirements appropriate to scouts' program level in each of the four main STEM areas. The Girl Scouts of the USA has similarly incorporated STEM into their program through the introduction of merit badges such as \"Naturalist\" and \"Digital Art\".\n\nSAE is an international organization, solutions'provider specialized on supporting education, award and scholarship programs for STEM matters, from pre-K to the College degree. It also promotes scientific and technologic innovation.\n\nThe eCybermission is a free, web-based science, mathematics and technology competition for students in grades six through nine sponsored by the U.S. Army. Each webinar is focused on a different step of the scientific method and is presented by an experienced eCybermission CyberGuide. CyberGuides are military and civilian volunteers with a strong background in STEM and STEM education, who are able to provide valuable insight into science, technology, engineering, and mathematics to students and team advisers.\n\nSTARBASE is a premier educational program, sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. Students interact with military personnel to explore careers and make connections with the \"real world.\" The program provides students with 20–25 hours of stimulating experiences at National Guard, Navy, Marines, Air Force Reserve and Air Force bases across the nation.\n\nSeaPerch is an innovative underwater robotics program that trains teachers to teach their students how to build an underwater remotely operated vehicle (ROV) in an in-school or out-of-school setting. Students build the ROV from a kit composed of low-cost, easily accessible parts, following a curriculum that teaches basic engineering and science concepts with a marine engineering theme.\n\nNASAStem is a program of the U.S. space agency NASA to increase diversity within its ranks, including age, disability, and gender as well as race/ethnicity.\n\nThe America COMPETES Act (P.L. 110-69) became law on August 9, 2007. It is intended to increase the nation's investment in science and engineering research and in STEM education from kindergarten to graduate school and postdoctoral education. The act authorizes funding increases for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Standards and Technology laboratories, and the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science over FY2008–FY2010. Robert Gabrys, Director of Education at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, articulated success as increased student achievement, early expression of student interest in STEM subjects, and student preparedness to enter the workforce.\n\nIn November 2012 the White House announcement before congressional vote on the STEM Jobs Act put President Obama in opposition to many of the Silicon Valley firms and executives who bankrolled his re-election campaign. The Department of Labor identified 14 sectors that are \"projected to add substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy or affect the growth of other industries or are being transformed by technology and innovation requiring new sets of skills for workers.\" The identified sectors were as follows: advanced manufacturing, Automotive, construction, financial services, geospatial technology, homeland security, information technology, Transportation, Aerospace, Biotechnology, energy, healthcare, hospitality, and retail.\n\nThe Department of Commerce notes STEM fields careers are some of the best-paying and have the greatest potential for job growth in the early 21st century. The report also notes that STEM workers play a key role in the sustained growth and stability of the U.S. economy, and training in STEM fields generally results in higher wages, whether or not they work in a STEM field.\n\nIn 2015, there were around 9.0 million STEM jobs in the United States, representing 6.1% of American employment. STEM jobs were increasing around 9% percent per year.. Brookings Institution found that the demand for competent technology graduates will surpass the number of capable applicants by at least one million individuals.  The BLS noted that almost 100 percent of STEM jobs require postsecondary education, while only 36 percent of other jobs call for that same degree.\n\nPEW findings revealed that Americans identified several issues that hound STEM education which included unconcerned parents, disinterested students, obsolete curriculum materials, and too much focus on state parameters. 57 percent of survey respondents pointed out that one main problem of STEM is lack of students’ concentration in learning. \n\nThe recent National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) report card made public technology as well as engineering literacy scores which determines whether students have the capability to apply technology and engineering proficiency to real-life scenarios. The report showed a gap of 28 points between low-income students and their high-income counterparts. The same report also indicated a 38-point difference between white and black students.\n\nThe 2019 fiscal budget proposal of the White House supported the funding plan in President Donald Trump’s Memorandum on STEM Education which allocated around $200 million (grant funding) on STEM education every year. This budget also supports STEM through a grant program worth $20 million for career as well as technical education programs. In September 2017, a number of large American technology firms collectively pledged to donate $300 million for computer science education in the U.S.\n\nCanada ranks 12th out of 16 peer countries in the percentage of its graduates who studied in STEM programs, with 21.2%, a number higher than the United States, but lower than France, Germany, and Austria. The peer country with the greatest proportion of STEM graduates, Finland, has over 30% of their university graduates coming from science, mathematics, computer science, and engineering programs.\n\nSHAD is an annual Canadian summer enrichment program for high-achieving high school students in July. The program focuses on academic learning particularly in STEAM fields.\n\nScouts Canada has taken similar measures to their American counterpart to promote STEM fields to youth. Their STEM program began in 2015.\n\nIn 2011 Canadian entrepreneur and philanthropist Seymour Schulich established the Schulich Leader Scholarships, $100 million in $60,000 scholarships for students beginning their university education in a STEM program at 20 institutions across Canada. Each year 40 Canadian students would be selected to receive the award, two at each institution, with the goal of attracting gifted youth into the STEM fields. The program also supplies STEM scholarships to five participating universities in Israel.\n\nSeveral European projects have promoted STEM education and careers in Europe. For instance, Scientix is a European cooperation of STEM teachers, education scientists, and policymakers. The SciChallenge project used a social media contest and the student-generated content to increase motivation of pre- university students for STEM education and careers.\n\nSTEM education has not been promoted among the local schools in Hong Kong until recent years. In November 2015, the Education Bureau of Hong Kong released a document entitled \"Promotion of STEM Education\", which proposes the strategies and recommendations on promoting STEM education.\n\nTurkish STEM Education Task Force (or FeTeMM—Fen Bilimleri, Teknoloji, Mühendislik ve Matematik) is a coalition of academicians and teachers who show an effort to increase the quality of education in STEM fields rather than focussing on increasing the number of STEM graduates.\n\nIn Qatar, AL-Bairaq is an outreach program to high-school students with a curriculum that focuses on STEM, run by the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Each year around 946 students, from about 40 high schools, participate in AL-Bairaq competitions. AL-Bairaq make use of project-based learning, encourages students to solve authentic problems, and inquires them to work with each other as a team to build real solutions. Research has so far shown positive results for the program.\n\nIn Vietnam, beginning in 2012 many private education organizations has STEM education initiatives.\n\nIn 2015, the Ministry of Science and Technology and Liên minh STEM organized the first National STEM day, followed by many similar events across the country.\n\nin 2015, Ministry of Education and Training included STEM as an area needed to be encouraged in national school year program.\n\nIn May 2017, Prime Minister signed a Directive no. 16 stating: \"Dramatically change the policies, contents, education and vocational training methods to create a human resource capable of receiving new production technology trends, with a focus on promoting training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), foreign languages, information technology in general education; \" and asking \"Ministry of Education and Training (to): Promote the deployment of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in general education program; Pilot organize in some high schools from 2017 to 2018.\n\nWomen constitute 47% of the U.S. workforce, and perform 24% of STEM-related jobs. In the UK women perform 13% of STEM-related jobs (2014). In the U.S. women with STEM degrees are more likely to work in education or healthcare rather than STEM fields compared with their male counterparts.\n\nThe gender ratio depends on field of study. For example, in the European Union in 2012 women made up 47.3% of the total, 51% of the social sciences, business and law, 42% of the science, mathematics and computing, 28% of engineering, manufacturing and construction, and 59% of PhD graduates in Health and Welfare.\n\nThe focus on increasing participation in STEM fields has attracted criticism. In the 2014 article \"The Myth of the Science and Engineering Shortage\" in \"The Atlantic\", demographer Michael S. Teitelbaum criticized the efforts of the U.S. government to increase the number of STEM graduates, saying that, among studies on the subject, \"No one has been able to find any evidence indicating current widespread labor market shortages or hiring difficulties in science and engineering occupations that require bachelor's degrees or higher\", and that \"Most studies report that real wages in many—but not all—science and engineering occupations have been flat or slow-growing, and unemployment as high or higher than in many comparably-skilled occupations.\" Teitelbaum also wrote that the then-current national fixation on increasing STEM participation paralleled previous U.S. government efforts since World War II to increase the number of scientists and engineers, all of which he stated ultimately ended up in \"mass layoffs, hiring freezes, and funding cuts\"; including one driven by the Space Race of the late 1950s and 1960s, which he wrote led to \"a bust of serious magnitude in the 1970s.\"\n\n\"IEEE Spectrum\" contributing editor Robert N. Charette echoed these sentiments in the 2013 article \"The STEM Crisis Is a Myth\", also noting that there was a \"mismatch between earning a STEM degree and having a STEM job\" in the United States, with only around ¼ of STEM graduates working in STEM fields, while less than half of workers in STEM fields have a STEM degree.\n\nEconomics writer Ben Casselman, in a 2014 study of post-graduation earnings for \"FiveThirtyEight\", wrote that, based on the data, science should not be grouped with the other three STEM categories, because, while the other three generally result in high-paying jobs, \"many sciences, particularly the life sciences, pay below the overall median for recent college graduates.\"\n\nEfforts to remedy the perceived domination of STEM subjects by men of Asian and non-Hispanic European backgrounds has led to intense efforts to diversify the STEM workforce. However, some critics feel that this practice in higher education, as opposed to a strict meritocracy, causes lower academic standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12592247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12592247", "title": "South Australian Tertiary Admissions Centre", "text": "South Australian Tertiary Admissions Centre\n\nThe South Australian Tertiary Admissions Centre (SATAC) processes applications for entry into courses offered at participating educational institutions in South Australia and the Northern Territory.\n\nSATAC assesses qualifications presented by applicants and ranks eligible applicants in merit order for each course according to the rules and guidelines provided by the institution offering the course.\n\nSATAC also administers the Special Tertiary Admissions Test (STAT) in South Australia and the Northern Territory, for applicants applying to university under a special entry scheme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131133", "title": "Student court", "text": "Student court\n\nA student court is a type of judicial system occasionally seen in student governments. Student courts vary in size and functions, but they are most often engaged in conflict resolution and interpretation of student bylaws and constitutions. Names of student courts vary, with the body variously referred to as the \"Student Court,\" \"Judicial Council\", the \"Judicial Board\", the \"Supreme Court,\" or others. Typically, however, student governments only possess legislative and executive branches. Student courts are a less-common feature of student governments.\n\nThe methods of selection for student courts also vary: at some institutions, the elected student body president nominates and appoints student court members with the consent of the elected student representative assembly; at others, a search committee interviews potential members who are subsequently nominated and officially appointed; at still other institutions, the sitting members of the student court actually participate in the process of nominating and selecting new court members.\n\nArguments in favour of having student courts often hinge on the idea of separation of powers, on the basis that the legislative bodies of student governments should not have the power to police themselves. Other arguments in favour include having the judicial system removed from partisan politics, having a neutral body to make decisions on issues such as election appeals, and greater transparency.\n\nArguments against having student courts often hinge on practicality, with critics saying that students are not necessarily qualified to make judicial decisions, or that university ombudspersons are better placed to fulfill the same role. Other arguments include a lack of accountability from student courts as well the additional bureaucracy that is created and the cost that it entails. Some critics also argue that placing power in the hands of unelected officials is undemocratic.\n\nThe judicial body of the Alma Mater Society of the University of British Columbia is the Student Court. The Student Court is granted the power to \"exercise disciplinary powers over the Society’s organizations and members.\"\n\nIt is composed of 5 judges and two alternate judges, all appointed by the AMS Council, with the Chief Justice also being named by the AMS Council. The Chief Justice must be a law student. The decisions of the Court only become binding once the AMS Council ratifies them.\n\nThe Student Court was created in the 1970s, but had been inactive from 2009 to 2015, until the AMS Council filling the positions again.\n\nThe judicial body of the Carleton University Students' Association is the Constitutional Board. The CUSA constitution gives the Constitutional Board the authority to \"rule that any act of Students' Council, its members, its officers, or its agents is in contravention of the Constitution, any Bylaw or Policy of the Association.\"\n\nThe Constitutional Board is composed of 5 members appointed by the Students' Council, of which 4 must be students and the fifth is the university's ombudsperson, who acts as chair. There are also two alternate members. Constitutional Board members serve one year terms, and cannot be members of the Students' Council. Meetings of the Board are held publicly, and decisions of the Board cannot be appealed.\n\nThe constitution of the Student Federation of the University of Ottawa does not formally recognise a judicial body for the Federation, but, the powers of the Constitutional Committee closely resemble those of a student court. The Committee has the power to make binding decisions, but those decisions can be overturned by the Board of Administration through a simple majority vote.\n\nThe Constitutional Committee is composed of 5 members of the Board of Administration, as well as two alternate members (also members of the Board of Administration) in the case of a conflict of interest. The members of the Constitutional Committee chose a member from among themselves to act as chair. Meetings of the Committee are held in-camera.\n\nThe SFUO used to have a judicial system (originally known as the Student Court, and then the Student Arbitration Committee) independent from its BoA, but that body was abolished in 2011, and its powers transferred to the newly created Constitutional Committee.\n\nThe judicial body of the University of Alberta Students' Union is the Discipline, Interpretation, and Enforcement Board (also known as the DIE Board). The DIE Board is governed by the union's Bylaw 1500, which defines the Board as \"the organ of the Students’ Union responsible for the interpretation and enforcement of Students’ Union legislation,\" and gives the Board scope to rule on complaints made regarding possible constitutional violations, interpretation of union legislation and rulings made by the elections office.\n\nThe DIE Board is composed of one Chief Tribune, two Associate Chief Tribunes and 5 to 11 additional tribunes. The tribunes are appointed through recommendation of the Tribune Selection Committee and ratification by a 2/3rds vote of the Students' Council. Tribunes cannot be members of the Council, members of Council committees or be an employee of the Union, and hold office until they graduate, resign or are impeached by a 2/3rds vote of the Students' Council.\n\nThe University of Calgary Students' Union has two judicial bodies: the Review Board, acting as the lower student court, and the Tribunal, acting as the higher student court.\n\nThe Review Board consists of 9 people, appointed by the Student Legislative Committee from a list provided by the Nominations Committee. Of the 9 members of the Review Board, at least 5 must be students and at least 2 must be non-students. The chair of the Review Board must be one of the students. The Tribunal consists of 5 people, appointed by the SLC from a list provided by the Nominations Committee. Of the 5 members of the Tribunal, at least one must be a student and at least one must be a non-student. The chair of the Tribunal must be one of the non-students.\n\nMembers of the Review Board and Tribunal serve two-year terms, unless during their terms they fail to meet one of a list of qualifications, including having been a member of SLC, the University of Calgary Board of Governors, Senate, or General Faculties Council, being an executive for a student club, being an employee of the Union and taking part in any student election (other than just voting).\n\nThe judicial body of the University of Manitoba Students' Union is the Judicial Board. The decisions of the Judicial Board cannot be overturned by any other UMSU body.\n\nThe Judicial Board is composed of one UMSU member acting as Chair, three Councillors, and five additional UMSU members. The members of the Judicial Board are appointed by the Selections Committee, and cannot be employees of the Union or executives.\n\nThe judicial body of the Hong Kong University Students' Union is the Judicial Committee (JC), It follows the Union Council Judicial Procedure and serves as the Union’s ultimate judiciary. According to the Terms of reference of Judicial Committee (JC):\n\n（a） It shall follow the Judicial Procedure;\n\n（b） It shall, as decided by the chairperson or instructed by the Union Council, form working groups to enquire into any complaint which has been made by any Union member or sub-organization;\n\n（c） The working group shall determine the relevant facts and shall hence determine whether the complaint is a genuine one;\n\n（d） The working group shall, on completion of its investigation, arbitrate as it deems desirable;\n\n（e） The working group shall, report its findings and make recommendations to the Union Council;\n\n（f） The working group shall have the power in its sole discretion to have access to such documents from any Union sub-organizations as are relevant for the purposes of its investigations.\n\nThe judicial body of the Student Union of the Chinese University of Hong Kong is the Judicial Committee ( ). According to their website, it is formed by two courts: The Court of First Instance and the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal is the final court of appeal within the Union, whereas the Court of First Instance primarily deals with cases at first instance.\n\nThe Court of First Instance hears:\n\n（a） disciplinary charges contrary to Union statutes laid against a Union Member;\n\n（b） charges laid against a public officer of the Union following an impeachment; and\n\n（c） application for judicial review.\n\nThe Court of Appeal hears appeals from the Court of First Instance, as well as points of law relating to the Constitution referred to by the President of the Union or the Chairperson of the Representative Council.\n\nThe judicial body of the HKUST Students' Union is The Court. According to The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Students' Union Constitution, The Court shall be the judiciary body of the Union and shall have the following power and duties:\n\n（a） to settle disputes within the Students' Union; and\n\n（b） to call for further information and may require any member or suborganization of the Students' Union to give any relevant evidence in respect of its arbitration; and\n\n（c） to impose penalties on sub-organizations or members of the Students' Union in accordance with the provisions of the Students' Union Constitution; and\n\n（d） to quash any resolution of a General Meeting, that is in conflict with the Students' Union Constitution or a resolution passed by a Referendum; and\n\n（e） to quash any legislative resolution of the Council, that is in conflict with the Students' Union Constitution, a resolution passed by a Referendum or a General Meeting, or an existing valid legislative resolution passed by the Union Council; and\n\n（f） to quash any administrative resolution of the Council, the Executive Committee and the Editorial Board that is illegal, irrational, or procedurally improper; and\n\n（g） to interpret the Students' Union Constitution.\n\nThe judicial body of the City University of Hong Kong Students’ Union (CityUSU) is the Arbitration Committee ( ). According to their website, It has jurisdiction in respect of matters conferred on it by the Students' Union Constitution and Arbitration Committee by-law.\n\nThe Arbitration Committee is authorised :\n\n（a） to hand all disputes and complaints within the Students’ Union; and\n\n（b） to interpret the Constitution and the by-laws of the Students' Union, all resolutions of the Union Council, and all regulations formulated by the Executive Committee; and\n\n（c） to declare that the resolutions of the Union Council or the regulations formulated by the Executive Committee are void on the basis of being unconstitutional; and\n\n（d） to handle complaints concerning a General Polling or the outcome of the elections of student societies; and\n\n（e） to consider possible disciplinary actions against any full member.\n\nThe judicial body of the Hong Kong Polytechnic University Students’ Union is the Union Judicial Council ( ). According to their Constitution, It is the supreme judicial authority responsible for all arbitration and judicial issues of the Union. It has the duties and powers of:\n\n（a） punishing members and organizations violating the Constitution of the Students' Union in accordance therewith;\n\n（b） settling and arbitrating all prosecutions in the Students' Union;\n\n（c） settling prosecutions or arbitrating disputes among organizations and between members and organizations;\n\n（d） verdict in accordance with the principal spirit and purposes of the Constitution of the Students' Union;\n\n（e） requiring any member or organization of the Students' Union to provide relevant materials of a certain affair, where such member or organization shall be notified three (3) working days in advance in written;\n\n（f） summoning any member or organization representatives to attend litigation meetings;\n\n（g） settling appeals of the Students' Union’s staffs on its regulations and contracts.\n\nPrior to January 2016, the judicial body of the National University of Singapore Students' Union (NUSSU) was the Adjudication Committee (AC).\n\nThe Adjudication Committee was established in August 2012, at the recommendation of the Constitution Review Commission. The Commission was convened to carry out a comprehensive redrafting of the Union's Constitution, and after \"look[ing] into the governance structure of other Student Unions, including foreign ones\", it was \"[i]n particular…impressed with the Adjudication Committee in the City University of Hong Kong Students' Union\". Citing the Singapore Court of Appeal's \"dictum\" in \"Chng Suan Tze v Minister for Home Affairs\" that \"all power has legal limits\", it envisaged the Adjudication Committee as \"an organ within the Union governance structure to enforce such legal limits and resolve disputes between Constituent Clubs or members\".\n\nThe Adjudication Committee's functions were to adjudicate disputes within the Union, interpret the Union's Constitution and hear appeals arising from disciplinary actions.\n\nDuring its three-year existence, the Adjudication Committee made two reported decisions. In \"Re Yale-NUS College Students\" [2014] NUSSU AC 2, it decided by a 5-2 majority that, as a matter of constitutional interpretation, Yale-NUS College students were not Union members. One dissenting panel member wrote that \"YNC students should be integrated into the Union so as to prevent segregation of the student populace\".\n\nThe Adjudication Committee was abolished in January 2016 \"because its roles and responsibilities are redundant\".\n\nSince January 2016, the judicial power of the Union has been vested in the Council, together with the Union's legislative power and executive authority.\n\nThe Union Election Committee has the power to adjudicate all disputes raised by candidates in the Executive Committee Elections or by constituent clubs' election committees.\n"}
{"id": "5210054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5210054", "title": "TV Tycoon", "text": "TV Tycoon\n\nTV Tycoon is a computer game by eGames. It simulates managing a TV station, making money by selling advertising space, and avoiding bankruptcy. Although eGames has been selling the game, it actually was originally created by Niels Bauer and was previously available as TV Manager.\n"}
{"id": "43440286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43440286", "title": "Tele-TASK", "text": "Tele-TASK\n\nTele-TASK is a university research project in the e-learning area. It can be applied to lecture recording, post-processing and distribution. Research topics include e-learning, tele-teaching, semantic web, video analysis, speech recognition, collaborative learning, social networking, web technologies, recommendation systems, statistics and video codecs and conversion.\n\nThe project was founded by Christoph Meinel and his research group at the University of Trier. When he accepted the chair for Internet Technologies and Systems at Hasso Plattner Institute at the University of Potsdam/Germany, the tele-TASK project also moved with him.\n\nReference software was developed as proof of concept, such as an online e-lecture archive a lecture recording system and a post-production tool.\n"}
{"id": "3026037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3026037", "title": "Tertiary Entrance Exam", "text": "Tertiary Entrance Exam\n\nThe Tertiary Entrance Examination (TEE) was the standard academic examination for secondary students completing their twelfth year of schooling in Western Australia during the early twenty-first century. The exam results were used to determine the Tertiary Entrance Rank and the Tertiary Entrance Score. These metrics were used to determine eligibility for entrance to the tertiary institutions in the state.\n\nIn 2010, the Western Australian Certificate of Education (WACE) was introduced as an umbrella term given to the set of final examinations that are completed by the majority of Year 12 students, replacing the TEE (Tertiary Entrance Exam). All previous TEE courses and corresponding examinations were converted to the WACE curriculum, and the TER (Tertiary Entrance Rank) was replaced with the Australian national standard entrance score, the ATAR.\n\nThe TER was normally derived from the Tertiary Entrance Score (TES) by a mathematical procedure approved by the Academic Board. For applicants who took university entrance qualifications equivalent to the TEE in another state of Australia, in New Zealand or who obtained the International Baccalaureate Diploma, a TER was also derived. In the latter cases, the TER was considered equivalent to the TER derived from Western Australia's TES.\n\nThe TER was a number between 99.95 and zero that reported a student's ranking in comparison to all other students.\n\nThe TER (Tertiary Entrance Rank) was replaced by an Australian national standard entrance score, the ATAR, in 2010.\n\nIn 2008, the TES was a score out of 510 (during 2009, out of 400), calculated on the basis of a person's TEE exam results.\n\nPreviously, the TES was calculated by multiplying an applicant's best mean scaled score over four or five Tertiary Entrance subjects, with at least one subject from each of List 1 and List 2 contributing to the score, by 5.1. Prior to 1998, 500 marks came from the subjects as above, while the remaining 10 came from the Australian Scholastic Aptitude Test (ASAT) score. In 2006, the first of the Course of Studies (COS), Aviation was allowed as a TEE Subject and the first external exam was performed, although the average exam mark was an appalling 36%. In 2007, three other COS's will be externally examined upon for the first time; English COS (replacing English TEE Subject), Engineering Studies and Media, Production and Analysis. In 2008 the TES was calculated on an applicant's best four TEE subjects, abolishing the previous list 1/ list 2 approach, however all candidates still had to complete 2 units of TEE English or English literature.\n\nThe TEE and COS subjects are broken into 2 lists; List 1-Humanities and List 2-Quantitative. If a student wants to qualify for a TER, they must pick at least 4 subjects, with at least one subject from List One and at least one subject from List Two.\n\n"}
{"id": "9657023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657023", "title": "Tracking (education)", "text": "Tracking (education)\n\nTracking is separating pupils by academic ability into groups for all subjects or certain classes and curriculum within a school. It may be referred to as streaming or phasing in certain schools.\n\nIn a tracking system, the entire school population is assigned to classes according to whether the students' overall achievement is above average, normal, or below average. Students attend academic classes only with students whose overall academic achievement is the same as their own.\n\nAbility grouping is \"not\" synonymous with tracking. Tracking differs from ability grouping by scale and permanence. Ability groups are small, informal groups formed within a single classroom. Assignment to an ability group is often short-term (never lasting longer than one school year), and varies by subject. Assignment to an ability group is made by (and can be changed at any time by) the individual teacher, and is usually not recorded in student records. For example, a teacher may divide a typical mixed-ability classroom into three groups for a mathematics lesson: those who need to review basic facts before proceeding, those who are ready to learn new material, and those who need a challenging assignment. For the next lesson, the teacher may revert to whole-class, mixed-ability instruction, or may assign students to different groups.\n\nTracking and its various modifications are among the predominant organizing practices of American public schools, and have been an accepted feature of the country's schools for nearly a century.\n\nComing into use at a time when schools were enrolling growing numbers of immigrant children as the result of compulsory schooling laws, tracking was adopted as a means of sorting those children viewed as having limited preparation or capacity for schooling from native children. Unfortunately, however, tracking quickly took on the appearance of internal segregation.\n\nThe types of tracks have changed over the years. Traditionally, there were academic, general, and vocational tracks, identified by the kind of preparation they provide. By the 1920s, some schools had developed up to eight distinctly labeled tracks that represented particular curricular programs that reflected an assessment of students’ probable social and vocational futures.\n\nMany secondary schools now base track levels on course difficulty, with tracks such as basic, honors, or college-prep. Public schools might track in terms of high, average, or lower ability. As noted by Oakes and Martin, \"school policies determine three structural qualities of the tracking system: \"extensiveness\" (the number of subjects tracked and the type of distinct curricula offered); \"specificity\" (the number of track levels offered); and \"flexibility\" (whether students move from one track to another)\". Although, in theory, track assignment is based on academic ability, other factors often influence placement.\n\nThe \"Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka\" Supreme Court ruling of 1954 determined that the separate school statute established by \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" was unconstitutional, but a plan was not set forth for desegregating schools until the following year with the \"Brown II\" case. For schools in most southern regions of the United States, integration did not occur until the early 1970s. Mickelson (2003) stated that tracking was used as a tool to maintain white privilege by placing African-American students in lower academic tracks in Charlotte, North Carolina public schools after the \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg\" desegregation ruling.\n\nHaney (1978) did a historical analysis on the negative effects of desegregation on African-American educators. At the secondary school level, African-American teachers or less qualified white teachers were assigned to teach African American students. Teachers in lower tracks were also found to be less organized in preparing lessons and taught fewer concepts to students (Oakes, 1987).\n\nThe origins of race-based tracking actually reach as far back as the federal court ruling in \"Roberts v. The City of Boston\" in 1850, a case that upheld separate school curriculums for blacks and whites on the belief in inherent racial differences in intelligence (Harvard Law Review, 1989).\n\nDuring the mid- to late-1980s, there were a few federal court cases in the Mississippi and Georgia the involved unfair race-based tracking in school systems. \"Quarles v. Oxford Municipal Separate School District\", \"NAACP v. Georgia\", and \"Montgomery v. Starkville Municipal Separate School District\" each ruled in favor of school districts based on the argument that socioeconomic status was a legitimate reason for tracking. Courts also held the belief that racial discrimination in education was a thing of the past by the 1980s (Harvard Law Review, 1989). Unfortunately, in rural areas of Mississippi and Georgia, African-Americans were made of a large proportion of low income students, placing them in lower academic tracks.\n\nAs late as 2009, Childers (in press) found that in a successful Ohio high school that was majority African-American, students of color were still placed in lower academic tracks at a rate that did not reflect the student population. The argument for the proliferation of African-Americans in lower tracks was student choice rather than racially based practices of administrators (Childers, in press).\n\nThe ways by which students are assigned to tracks differs both between and within schools. Today, it is less common for schools to rigidly track students in all subjects.  Administrators and teachers in a given school may purposefully avoid using the term “tracking” to describe the organization of their school’s curriculum.  Yet, schools maintain a variety of policies that sort students into different programs of study including: test scores and grade requirements, pre- and co-requisite requirements, and teacher recommendations.  Schools also use over-arching programs of study such as “college prep” as a guidance technique to track students. Non-academic factors such as schedule conflicts can limit students from taking courses of varying level as well.  Thus, while most systems allow for some amount of student and parent choice, this choice is constrained by course taking requirements and guidance policies.  Within the context of this system, researchers disagree over the extent to which highly involved parents intervene to give their own student a course taking advantage.\n\nHistorically, high school students were sorted into “business/vocational,” “general,” or the “college” track, which had profound implications for the nature and extent of academic course taking.  In more recent decades, vocational course taking has declined, while academic course taking has increased.  For example, Domina and Saldana (2012) report that the graduating class of 1982 took an average of 14.6 academic courses while the class of 2004 took 19.1 academic courses. Likewise, the percentage of students graduating with pre-calculus or calculus coursework increased from about 10.3% of students to 32.9% of students.  This increase in academic course taking, especially in the public sector, has narrowed the differences in academic rigor between high- and low-track students somewhat. Academic intensification has also reduced differences in the academic experiences of public vs. private school students.\n\nDespite some loosening of high school tracking systems, most schools remain highly differentiated, with policies that encourage students to take the same level of coursework in different subjects.  In a study of high school tracking policies in North Carolina, Kelly and Price (2011) report that the typical school had five or more levels of mathematics, with some schools having three or more levels of Geometry alone.  Larger schools and schools with a greater diversity of student achievement level have more extensive tracking systems than smaller, homogenous schools.  In many schools the track assignment process remains a high stakes decision.\n\nProponents of tracking say that tracking has several important strengths.\n\nA major advantage of tracking is that it allows teachers to better direct lessons toward the specific ability level of the students in each class. While tracking for regular instruction makes no real difference in scholastic achievement for low and average ability students, it does produce substantial gains for gifted students in tracks specially designed for the gifted and talented.\n\nTracking meets the need for highly gifted students to be with their intellectual peers in order to be appropriately challenged and to view their own abilities more realistically. Tracking can allow students to receive lessons targeted at their ability for each subject separately, attending lessons set at different levels at the same school. For example, a student at a higher level in math may attend a class with advanced math students, but if at a lower level in English they may be grouped with peers at their level in English.\n\nAnother positive aspect of tracking is that since it separates students by ability, students' work is only compared to that of similar-ability peers, preventing a possible lowering of their self-esteem that could result from comparisons with the work of higher ability students, or inflating the egos of the high-ability students when compared to low-ability, same-age students. Being with students of similar ability could allow students to realistically compete against one another for the highest marks with a reasonable chance of reaching the top of a class.\n\nSupporters of tracking also note that it allows for higher achievement of high-ability students. Kulik and Kulik (1992) found that high-ability students in tracked classes achieved more highly than similar-ability students in non-tracked classes. Similarly, Rogers (1991) recommends that gifted and talented students spend the majority of their school day with ability peers.\n\nIn 1982 and 1990, the Kuliks also found a moderate improvement in attitude toward subject material for \"all\" ability levels. Another factor of ability grouping that has been advocated is the Joplin Plan that refers directly to ability grouping for reading. These groups are generally more interchangeable and less defined.\nIn another study, Argys, Rees, and Brewer (1996) found that high-track students’ achievement dropped when lower-ability students were integrated into the same class.\n\nBoth of these studies suggest that tracking is beneficial to high-track students. Tracking can also encourage low-ability students to participate in class since tracking separates them from intimidation of the high-ability students.\n\nSome supporters of tracking also view tracking as an effective means of allocation since it helps direct students into specific areas of the labor market.\n\nRogers classifies tracking as one of ten types of grouping. High ability groups are often assigned special work that is more advanced than that of the other students in the class. For gifted children, such advanced work contributes to their social and emotional well-being.\n\nDespite the positive aspects of tracking, some scholars have noted limitations of the system. Tracking often does not work as effectively as it should because of the composition of the tracks. In practice, tracks are generally not as homogeneous as they could be\n(although they are more homogenous than a non-tracking system, which randomly assigns students to classrooms), so some of the potential benefits can't be fully exploited.\n\nEven when tracks initially are nearly homogeneous in students' academic abilities, heterogeneity can develop over time, since students learn at different rates. Some systems reassess all students periodically to keep students of comparable ability together as they progress.\n\nLow-track classes tend to be primarily composed of low-income students, usually minorities, while upper-track classes are usually dominated by students from socioeconomically successful groups.\n\nIn 1987, Jeannie Oakes theorized that the disproportionate placement of poor and minority students into low tracks does not reflect their actual learning abilities. Rather, she argues that the ethnocentric claims of social Darwinists and the Anglo-Saxon-driven Americanization movement at the turn of the century combined to produce a strong push for \"industrial\" schooling, ultimately relegating the poorer minority students to vocational programs and a differentiated curriculum which she considered a lingering pattern in 20th century schools.\n\nThere is evidence to support the assertion that the appointment of teachers to classes is disproportionate. The most-experienced, highest-status teachers are often assigned to teach high-track classes, whereas less-experienced teachers are usually assigned to low-track classes. Teachers of the high-track courses were found to be more enthusiastic in teaching, better at providing explanations, and more organized than teachers of low-track courses.\n\nScholars have also found that curricula often vary widely among tracks, as might be expected. While the enrichment and/or acceleration of curricula is considered to be a major benefit to gifted and talented students., lessons taught in low-track classes often lack the engagement and comprehensiveness of the high-track lessons, reflecting their more remedial nature.\n\nThis can put low-track students at a disadvantage for college acceptance because they often do not gain the knowledge and skills of the upper-track students, presuming they could and would if not taught under a tracked system. Oakes (1985) found that in high-track classes, teachers often used course materials and taught concepts which required extensive critical-thinking skills, whereas teachers in low-track classes tended to draw heavily from workbooks and rarely assign work that required critical thinking. \"But tracking described by Oakes in 1985 had little to do with educating gifted and talented children.\"\n\nIn general, curricula of high-track courses are much more intensive and in-depth than those of low-track courses, as would be expected. Teachers reported spending less time addressing disciplinary issues in high-track classrooms than in low-track classes. The connection between low-track students and perceived behavioral concerns has been reported frequently. Teachers in these instances often suggest that more time is required to promote proper student behavior over the development of critical thinking and independent learning.\n\nSome studies suggest that tracking can influence students' peer groups and attitudes regarding other students. Gamoran's study (1992) shows that students are more likely to form friendships with other students in the same tracks than students outside of their tracks. Since low-class and minority students are overrepresented in low tracks with Whites and Asians generally dominating high tracks, interaction among these groups can be discouraged by tracking. However, there is no research showing an academic benefit to low track students from such interaction.\n\nTracking can also result in a stigmatization of low-track students. In some cases, this stigmatization is thought to have a negative impact on students' academic performance and to influence students' attitudes. In one study, it was found that, among low-achieving students, students in tracked classes were more likely than students in non-tracked classes to believe that \"their fate was out of their hands\". According to Carol Dweck, this could be because their teachers impose upon them a 'fixed mindset,' but it is not an inherent attribute of tracking itself.\n\nDweck implies that teachers who promote a growth mindset could stimulate students to greater academic achievement regardless of tracking. So whether a fixed mindset is predictive of, or resulting from, a low track assignment is unknown.\n\nThe effects of social stigmatization can be some of the worst outcomes for students in lower academic tracks. Schafer and Olexa (1971) interviewed high school students in lower academic tracks to examine the effects of tracking on self-esteem and perceived academic competence. They found that students lost confidence in their abilities by their placements in low-ability classes in which teacher expectations for them were low.\n\nThese dilemmas were very common as students made transitions to new schools (e.g., elementary to middle school, middle to high school). The tracking of African-American students in elementary schools reflected remnants of early desegregation in which African-American secondary school teachers were demoted to teaching in lower grades (Haney, 1978). In these elementary schools, class-based tracking disproportionately placed African-American students in lower tracks with African-American teachers, regardless of ability. In transitions to middle and high school, tracking by ability created a division among these students and stripped students in lower tracks of their perceived academic efficacies.\n\nGoodlad (1983) and Oakes (1985) found that students in lower tracks were more likely to drop out of school or participate in criminal activities.\n\nProponents of tracking would have said that students dropped out due to lack of ability, but Mickelson (2003) stated that students differed widely even within lower tracks. Even when students demonstrated high academic ability, it was virtually impossible to change their academic tracks without delaying high school graduation (Mickelson, 2003).\n\nAcross countries there are wide differences in the use of formal tracking systems. Even though some countries track students into differing-ability schools by age 10, others such as the United States keep their entire secondary-school system comprehensive. Eric Hanushek and Ludger Woessmann identify the impact of tracking by comparing differences in student outcome between primary and secondary school across tracked and non-tracked systems. The results suggest that early tracking increases educational inequality. While less clear, there is also a tendency for early tracking to reduce mean performance.\n\nTracking was once popular in English-speaking countries, but is less used now; tracking systems formed the basis of the Tripartite System in England and Wales until the 1970s, and in Northern Ireland until 2009.\n\nIn the UK the term \"Tracking\" refers to recording data as to individual pupils progress, the term \"Streaming\" commonly translates to the meaning of Tracking in the sense of this article.\n\nWeak tracking systems have been used in American schools. In this approach, local schools assign students to classrooms according to their overall achievement, so that a given classroom is primarily composed of students with either high, average, or low academic achievement.\n\nGermany uses a tracked system. In Germany, students' achievements in their last of generally four years of primary school determine the type of secondary school they will be permitted to attend, and therefore the type of education they will receive.\n\nA tracking system has been in place since the advent of modern education in the Netherlands. After it was relaxed in the 70s and 80s, the tracking system has been gaining substantial strength again since the late 1990s.\n\nThe 2010 HBO documentary, \"A Small Act\", documented the difficulty of Kenyan students being able to afford attending secondary schools. These elite schools were viewed as pathway to law school, medical school, and other forms of advanced education. Students who were kicked out of school for insufficient funds were fated to lives of poverty. In Kenya, having only a primary school education prepared one for menial labor, while secondary school equated to future social mobility for poor Kenyan children.\n\nThe Kenyan system of education closely mirrored tracking in American high schools where students in college-preparatory tracks were able to attend four-year universities immediately after graduation and vocationally tracked students could only enter community colleges and technical schools. Middle-class Kenyans were more likely to complete secondary schools and attend college, similar to college-preparatory students in the United States. Despite displaying promising academic ability, both low track students in the United States and poor children in Kenya can be at disadvantages in their educational advancement. For those in the United States, they acquire vocational skills at the sacrifice of reaching their full academic potential and the job security of a college education. The prospects for poor children in Kenya are even worse, having acquired few job skills in their primary school education.\n\nPoor children in Kenya did have the opportunity to gain admission to secondary schools through merit scholarships, which required that students attained satisfactory scores on entrance examinations. There were indeed opportunities for bright poor children, but merit scholarships were limited in the number of students who could be awarded. In the United States, bright students in vocational tracks can enroll in two-year universities, but they lack the scholarships and post-secondary funding of their college-preparatory counterparts. Vocational students negotiate with the burden of scant financial support for college, and poor Kenyan children have the stress of passing entrance examinations even if they have academic ability similar to that of middle-class children or those in college-preparatory tracks.\n\nDetracking occurs when students are deliberately positioned into classes of mixed ability. As opposed to tracking, students are no longer placed in groups based upon academic achievement or ability. Tracking can be associated with giving students in low-track classes less resources, fewer experienced teachers, low expectations, and unchallenging curricula. Proponents for detracking believe that low-track students will greatly benefit in school achievement if they are mixed in with high-track students.\n\nCritics of tracking such as Kevin Welner say that detracking will help close the class-based and race-based achievement gap. Often students in low-track classes are disadvantaged racial and ethnic minority students. Those in favor of detracking say that detracking challenges social views about race and intelligence.\n\nTracking has been shown to produce less academic achievement for low-ability students, and higher academic achievement for high-ability students; de-tracking would increase the achievement of the worst students and harm the achievement of the best students. Critics say that not challenging all students with the most advanced curriculum results in overall low student educational achievement, and that students in low tracks do not learn as much as their peers in higher tracks, e.g., advanced mathematics.\n\nTeachers typically have higher expectations for students in high-track classes and low expectations for students in low-tracked classes, which affects the self-image of students.\n\nDetracking has been proven to reduce the achievement of students who would otherwise be placed in high-track classes. Parents of high-ability students and other proponents of tracking say that academically gifted students should have access to classes that maximize their potential. Detracking holds back high-ability students because teachers must reduce the amount and complexity of material so that all students in the class, including low-ability students, can understand it. Putting all students together in a heterogeneous group makes the teacher's job more difficult by increasing the range of performance of the students in a class.\n\nThe teachers' perception of a students' academic abilities determines how detracking is carried out in the classroom. For example, in a school with many disadvantaged students, teachers assumed most students had low ability, and therefore the classroom curriculum was easier than what the students were capable of achieving. On the other side, in a wealthy school, teachers typically assumed students were college-bound and intelligent, and followed a creative and challenging curriculum.\n\nMaureen Hallinan offers many suggestions for reforming the tracking system and counterbalancing its perceived negative consequences. Although tracking can segregate students by race and socioeconomic status, she says that, by ensuring that students are engaged in integrated settings during the school day, some of the negative effects of the segregation could be avoided. Some studies suggest that low-track students often have slower academic growth than high-track students, but Hallinan says that providing more-engaging lessons in class, altering assumptions about students, and raising requirements for students' performance could help. Research is needed in this area to test her hypotheses. In order to prevent stigmatization of low-track students, Hallinan suggests that schools challenge low-track students to achieve highly and should offer public rewards for gains in academic achievement. Such rewards would be necessary in all tracks to avoid the perception of unfairness.\n\nHeterogeneous class assignment with part-time homogeneous groupings is one possible compromise.\n\nAllen Graubard suggests that creating \"small schools\" within larger school systems would be a progressive proposal for reformation. The school experience could be reformatted by having students select programs themselves that cover both traditional learning as well as vocational real-world experiences.\n\nReform would also benefit from improving the instruction that is provided to students within the classroom. In order to have all students benefit from eliminating tracking, teachers must have the tools to teach all students, as well as the tools to decrease stigma that may arise from students who feel that they are at different learning levels from their peers. There is evidence that as it stands, many teachers are not given proper training to teach/guide differentiated classrooms. In order to successfully accomplish a reformation of the educational experience, teachers and faculty must be provided the proper time and support to complete training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "897546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897546", "title": "Vendela Kirsebom", "text": "Vendela Kirsebom\n\nVendela Maria Kirsebom (born 12 January 1967) is a Norwegian-Swedish model and actress living in Oslo, Norway.\n\nKirsebom was born in Stockholm, Sweden, to a Norwegian mother and a Turkish father. At the age of 13, she was discovered in a Stockholm restaurant by Eileen Ford. At 18, she graduated from the Rudolf Steiner School and moved to Italy to pursue a modeling career under the guidance of Ford Models. Contracted with Elizabeth Arden, she moved to the United States to work as Almay's spokesperson.\n\nKirsebom has appeared on the magazine covers of \"Bride's\" (US), \"Flare \"(Canada), \"Shape \"(US), \"FHM \"(UK), and \"Zest \"(US) and has been featured multiple times in the pages of the \"Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue\". She appeared in \"Batman and Robin\" in 1997 as Nora Fries; and (as Vendela K. Thomessen) in 1998 played the bridal gown model in \"The Parent Trap\", which starred Lindsay Lohan, Natasha Richardson, and Dennis Quaid. She was also featured in the Disney Channel's \"Model Behavior\" with Justin Timberlake and Maggie Lawson. She appeared as herself in 1995 episodes of \"The Larry Sanders Show\" and \"Murphy Brown\", as well as the 2005 TV-movie sequel \"\". Kirsebom made a cameo as a \"space villainess\" in a \"Pigs in Space\" skit on \"Muppets Tonight\". She also lent her voice to a fictionalized version of herself on \"Johnny Bravo\". In 1999, she hosted the Swedish music competition Melodifestivalen 1999. From 2006 to 2008, she hosted the Norwegian version of \"Top Model\", and also hosted the fourth cycle of the Swedish version in 2007.\n\nIn 1996, Kirsebom married Norwegian politician Olaf Thommessen, a Roman Catholic of French and Norwegian descent. They separated in 2007 after 11 years of marriage and Kirsebom moved to Oslo with their two daughters, Julia and Hannah. In addition to Swedish, Norwegian and Danish, she speaks German, Italian and English fluently. She remains active in modeling and is a Goodwill Ambassador for UNICEF.\n\n"}
