{"id": "9041989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9041989", "title": "1984 New Zealand constitutional crisis", "text": "1984 New Zealand constitutional crisis\n\nThe New Zealand constitutional crisis of 1984 was an important constitutional and political event in the history of New Zealand. The crisis arose following the 1984 general election, and was caused by a major currency crisis. The crisis led the incoming government to review New Zealand's constitutional structures, which resulted in the Constitution Act 1986.\n\nPrior to 1985 the New Zealand dollar was controlled centrally by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand at an exchange rate fixed to the United States dollar. In early 1984 the Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank, Roderick Deane, became concerned that the New Zealand dollar had become significantly overvalued and was vulnerable to currency speculation on the financial markets in the event of a \"significant political event\".\n\nMedia speculation followed a leak that an incoming Labour government would be likely to significantly devalue the dollar upon election. The Reserve Bank advised the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Muldoon, that the dollar should be devalued. Muldoon ignored the advice, owing to his belief that it would hurt poorer New Zealanders in the medium term. In June 1984 Muldoon announced a snap election to be held in July. This caused an immediate run on the dollar, as currency speculators believed a Labour win would mean devaluation. Despite a deepening foreign exchange crisis, Muldoon continued to refuse to devalue, forcing the Reserve Bank to take some extraordinary steps, such as closing the Forex markets for a short period of time to slow down devaluation.\n\nOn 14 July, Muldoon and National lost the general election, and the Fourth Labour government led by David Lange was sworn in on 26 July.\n\nBy constitutional convention, between election day and the return of the writs for the election, an outgoing caretaker government implements the directions of an incoming government.\n\nOn the morning of Sunday 15 July, Reserve Bank officials (Reserve Bank Governor Spencer Russell, deputy Roderick Deane, and Treasury Secretary Bernie Galvin) met with the head of the Prime Minister's Department Gerald Hensley, and agreed that the currency market could not open on Monday unless there was a devaluation. Contacted by Hensley, Muldoon refused to meet that afternoon but told him that they could close the market on Monday if they liked, and agreed to meet them at 8:30 am on Monday 16 July. Russell closed the market on Sunday evening. The Reserve Bank officials also wrote a letter to Lange, and a senior Treasury officer unofficially briefed the incoming Finance Minister Roger Douglas on the situation.\n\nAfter their meeting on Monday morning, Russell and Galvin flew to Auckland to advise Lange, and Deane reluctantly briefed Labour's Deputy Leader Geoffrey Palmer, before escaping from waiting journalists out a back door. Muldoon called Lange at 10:30 am and suggested they make a joint statement that the currency would not be devalued. Lange said he would give Muldoon an answer after meeting with Russell and Galvin. The meeting, which also included Douglas and his incoming associate finance minister David Caygill, took place at Auckland International Airport. On being advised that a joint statement would not solve the currency problem, Lange told Russell and Galvin to inform Muldoon there would be no joint statement. Lange then travelled to unrelated meetings with the U.S. Secretary of State in Ohakea and the Australian Foreign Minister in Wellington, before returning to Auckland. Meanwhile, Russell and Galvin decided while travelling back to Wellington that they should not tell Muldoon, but that Lange should do so himself. Muldoon was left waiting for a response and despite Hensley's appeals to Galvin, received none before going home around 5 pm. His wife told him to have a rest and took the phone off the hook without telling him. By now, Deane had decided Muldoon had to be told what had happened, but could not reach Muldoon by phone.\n\nLange had meanwhile imposed a 24-hour news blackout on the currency problem, and was reported in the 6:30 pm television news as saying that Muldoon was \"refusing his advice on the matter\". Muldoon had his press secretary issue a statement that this was untrue, and agreed to a television interview with Richard Harman that evening. Shortly afterward he received a handwritten note from Deane explaining the situation, followed by a letter from Lange. In the interview, Muldoon went over the events of the day from his perspective. He said Lange had not yet responded to him, that \"I am not going to devalue, as long as I am Minister of Finance\", and that he hoped Lange would agree tomorrow not to devalue. Prime Minister elect David Lange responded with an interview of his own. He stated: \"This nation is at risk. That is how basic it is. This Prime Minister outgoing, beaten, has, in the course of one television interview tried to do more damage to the New Zealand economy than any statement ever made. He has actually alerted the world to a crisis. And like King Canute he stands there and says everyone is wrong but me\".\n\nThis provoked a further crisis in the foreign exchange markets - when the exchange opened on 17 July, millions of foreign exchange dollars left the country as currency speculators expected a devaluation of the New Zealand dollar. Lange later remarked \"We actually were reduced to asking our diplomatic posts abroad how much money they could draw down on their credit cards! That is the extent of the calamity that had been ground into us by the briefings that we'd got\".\n\nRoderick Deane and Spencer Russell then spoke to several senior ministers within the National Party caucus. On the morning on Wednesday 18 July, after an emergency caucus meeting, Muldoon relented and agreed to devalue the currency upon Lange's wishes. Muldoon's most senior Cabinet members, led by the soon to be Leader Jim McLay, had threatened to remove Muldoon from his leadership of the National Party and therefore strip him of his post as Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Cabinet members Jim McLay and Geoffrey Palmer had key roles in persuading Muldoon to step down. They advocated a ‘caretaker convention’ despite it not existing formally. Jim McLay drafted the convention and presented it in a press statement on June 17, where it became recognised as the 'caretaker convention'. The New Zealand dollar was devalued by 20%. In a 1994 documentary on the crisis, former Cabinet minister Hugh Templeton confirmed that McLay, working with Bill Birch and Jim Bolger, was ready to approach the Governor-General, Sir David Beattie to have Muldoon removed as Prime Minister (Beattie had suggested he could remove Muldoon prior to the Cabinet meeting on 19 July).\n\nAs a result of the constitutional crisis, the incoming Labour Government convened the Officials Committee on Constitutional Reform to review New Zealand's constitutional law, and the Constitution Act 1986 resulted from the two reports by this Committee. The issue of the transfer of power from incumbent to elect governments (and hence Prime Ministers) was not resolved by this Act however, and the transfer of executive powers remains an unwritten constitutional convention, known as the 'caretaker convention' which was developed by Jim McLay.\n\nA television mini-series, \"Fallout\", dramatising both the events surrounding the crisis and the initiation of New Zealand's nuclear-free policy (a major plank of Labour's 1984 election campaign) was produced in New Zealand in 1995. This mini-series, written by Greg McGee and Tom Scott, starred Mark Mitchell as Lange and Ian Mune as Muldoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "12046964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12046964", "title": "American Family Ass'n v. City and County of San Francisco", "text": "American Family Ass'n v. City and County of San Francisco\n\nAmerican Family Association v. City and County of San Francisco is a case in which the American Family Association (AFA) challenged the City and County of San Francisco's actions opposing an AFA sponsored advertisement campaign as a violation of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1998, a full-page advertisement regarding homosexuality and Christianity was placed in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" as part of the nationwide \"Truth in Love\" campaign by several Christian right organizations. The advertisement stated, \"God abhors any form of sexual sin,\" including homosexuality, and further stated that many people have walked out of homosexuality into sexual celibacy and marriage through the help of Jesus Christ. The advertisement was labeled by the City and County of San Francisco as \"hateful rhetoric,\" which incites hate crimes. San Francisco officials discouraged local TV and radio stations from running Truth in Love advertisements.\n\nIn October 1999, the AFA filed the suit against the City and County of San Francisco with support from Family Research Council and Virginia based Kerusso Ministries. The suit claims the City and County of San Francisco violated the First Amendment's Establishment Clause by expressing hostility towards a religion and violated the First Amendment's Free Speech and Free Exercise clauses by the City's attempt to prevent \"Truth in Love\" advertisements.\n\nIn June 2000, Oakland District court ruled the Defendant's actions did not violate the First Amendment and stated the City and County of San Francisco was only doing its duty to address public safety by encouraging local media not to run the advertisements. The AFA appealed the decision and the United States District Court for the Northern District of California affirmed the District court ruling.\n\nThe majority opinion was written by Michael Daly Hawkins and the dissenting/concurring opinion was written by John T. Noonan, Jr.\n\nOn October 19, 1998, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, led by Leslie Katz, wrote a letter to the AFA in response to an ad placed in the newspaper. The letter stated:\n\nDuring the same time, the City and County of San Francisco passed two resolutions. The first resolution was summarized by Judge Hawkins as:\n\nThe second resolution was summarized by Judge Hawkins as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2342918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2342918", "title": "Armistice of Saint Jean d'Acre", "text": "Armistice of Saint Jean d'Acre\n\nThe Armistice of Saint Jean d'Acre (also known as the Convention of Acre) concluded the Syria-Lebanon Campaign of World War II. The Armistice, signed on 14 July 1941, was between Allied forces in the Middle East under the command of British General Henry Maitland Wilson, and Vichy France forces in Syria and Lebanon, under the command of General Henri Dentz, Commander in Chief of the Army of the Levant (\"Armée du Levant\") and as High Commissioner of the Levant.\n\nHaving lost control of the Northern Desert and the Euphrates Province and being threatened with the imminent loss of Beirut, General Dentz decided to ask for an armistice. On the evening of 11 July, British Lieutenant-General Claude Auchinleck, Commander-in-Chief of the Middle East Command, received a wireless message from Dentz proposing the suspension of hostilities six hours later, at midnight. General Dentz declared himself ready to engage in talks on the basis of a memorandum presented to him that morning by the United States Consul at Beirut on behalf of the British Government. But Dentz made the reservation that he was empowered by the French Government to treat only with the British representatives to the exclusion of those of the Free French.\n\nThe proposals presented by General Dentz were considered at once by the Middle East War Council. The council took into account the opinion of the American Consul at Beirut that Dentz was entirely insincere and might be playing for time in the hope of a last minute rescue by the Germans. Accordingly, his conditions were rejected by the British and he was called on to send his plenipotentiaries to the British outpost on the Beirut—Haifa Road at or before 0900 hours on 12 July. Failure to do this would lead to the resumption of hostilities at that hour.\n\nOn 12 July, the Vichy second in command, Lieutenant-General Joseph-Antoine-Sylvain-Raoul de Verdillac attended the talks. He went all the way from Syria to Acre in the British Mandate of Palestine and was escorted by a convoy of Australian high commanding officers. General de Verdillac represented the Army of the Levant for the Armistice talks instead of his superior commander, General Dentz. The 21 July 1941 issue of \"Time\" magazine indicates that Dentz sent de Verdillac to the talks because de Verdillac was more pro-British and less anti-De Gaulle than Dentz.\n\nAt 2200 hours on 12 July, the Armistice of Saint Jean d'Acre was initialled. The Allied forces were represented by General Wilson, by Air Commodore L. O. Brown, Royal Air Force, by Captain J. A. V. Morse, Royal Navy, and by Free French General Georges Catroux. The Vichy French were represented by de Verdillac.\n\nThe Armistice talks, the first between Great Britain and France since Napoleon's time, were held in the officers mess of \"Sidney Smith Barracks\", on the outskirts of the city of Acre. On this site was later founded Bustan HaGalil, an Israeli agricultural settlement. Despite the generosity of the British terms, representatives of Vichy made a brief show of refusing them, then dumped the whole mess into General Dentz's lap. On Bastille Day 14 July General Dentz, Vichy's High Commissioner to the Levant States, signed Syria and Lebanon away to the conquering British and to the Free French Forces. When General De Verdillac uncapped his pen to add his signature, all the lights in the room fused out, and so a dispatch rider's motorcycle was brought into the room to light the place with its head lamp.\n\n"}
{"id": "1078727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1078727", "title": "Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec", "text": "Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec\n\nBibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ, unofficially translated as National Library and Archives of Quebec) is a Quebec governmental organization who manages the legal deposit and national archives systems of the province as well as its national library, which is located in the Grande Bibliothèque in Montreal. It is born out of a merger between the \"Bibliothèque nationale du Québec\" (BNQ) and the \"Archives nationales du Québec\", in 2006. The \"Bibliothèque nationale du Québec\" had previously merged with the Grande bibliothèque du Québec in 2002. \n\nBAnQ's mandate is to offer democratic access to culture and knowledge. To this end, it brings together, preserves and promotes Quebec's and Quebec-related heritage materials, and also provides the services of a major public library. BAnQ carries out its mandate in 12 facilities which are open to the public: the Grande Bibliothèque, BAnQ Vieux-Montréal and BAnQ Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie in Montreal; BAnQ Gaspé, BAnQ Gatineau, BAnQ Québec, BAnQ Rimouski, BAnQ Rouyn-Noranda, BAnQ Saguenay, BAnQ Sept-Îles, BAnQ Sherbrooke and BAnQ Trois-Rivières.\n\nThe library's collection includes legal deposit copies of all works printed in Quebec, concerning Quebec, or written or contributed to by an author from Quebec.\n\nThe \"Archives nationales du Québec\" (ANQ), or National Archives of Quebec, were founded September 2, 1920, and Pierre-Georges Roy became Quebec's first Head Archivist in the process.\n\nThe purpose of the institution was to process historical materials, more specifically public archives and the Quebec government's archives, and to collect documents pertaining to the history of Quebec.\n\nThe \"Archives nationales du Québec\" (as they were called in 1970) were brought under the jurisdiction of the Department of Cultural Affairs in 1961. Until 1963, the institution was called \"Archives de la province de Québec\".\n\nOn August 12, 1967, the Quebec National Assembly legislated to establish the \"Bibliothèque nationale du Québec\" (BNQ), an institution that would also come under the Department of Cultural Affairs. Originally, the BNQ held the collections and furniture of the Bibliothèque Saint-Sulpice, located in Montreal. Its creation by the Sulpician Order dated back to 1915. The library belonged to the Government of Quebec since 1941.\n\nIn 1968, the provincial regulation on legal deposit came into effect requiring that Quebec publishers deposit with the BNQ two copies of their printed works, i.e. books, brochures, newspapers, magazines and journals, artists' books and musical scores.\n\nAs of 1971, the Quebec government regionalized the \"Archives nationales du Québec\", opening archives centres in several regions.\n\nIn 1992, a regulation of the National Assembly expanded legal deposit to original prints, posters, art work reproductions, postcards, sound recordings (microgroove vinyl records, compact discs, and more), software, electronic documents (Internet files for instance) and desktop publishing.\n\nIris, an online catalogue, was made available to the public in 1994. It provides free access to a description of every item held in the library.\n\nIn 1997, the idea of creating a Grande Bibliothèque was born out of the desire to provide widespread availability to the materials of the BNQ and of the Montreal Public Libraries Network. The institution founded to create a major public library, called \"Grande bibliothèque du Québec\" (GBQ), was merged with the BNQ in 2002: the new entity kept the name \"Bibliothèque nationale du Québec\" and pursued two separate mandates: the acquisition, preservation and promotion of the National collection, and the acquisition and promotion of the circulating collection for the general public.\n\nThe construction work of the Grande Bibliothèque took place from 2001 to 2004 in downtown Montreal.\n\nIn the fall 2004, the collections of the Montreal Library, the circulating collections of the BNQ and the new acquisitions were placed on the shelves of the Grande Bibliothèque.\n\nOn , the Grande Bibliothèque was formally inaugurated. The next two days were dedicated to public tours. On Tuesday, , it began its operations.\n\nOn , the \"Bibliothèque nationale du Québec\" and the \"Archives nationales du Québec\" merged to become Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec (BAnQ).\n\nThe mission of \"Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec\" (BAnQ) is to gather, permanently preserve and promote Quebec's published heritage materials, any Quebec-related material of cultural interest, and any Quebec-related material published outside Quebec.\n\nAnother of BAnQ's mission is to provide democratic access to the heritage material constituted by its collections, to culture and universal knowledge, and to act, in this respect, as a catalyst for the library and information institutions of Quebec, thus contributing to the fulfillment of its citizens.\n\nMore specifically, BAnQ pursues the following objectives: attach great value to reading, research and the advancement of knowledge, promote Quebec publishing, foster continuing self-training, be instrumental in the integration of newcomers to Quebec, strengthen cooperation and exchanges between libraries and encourage Quebec's participation in the development of the virtual library.\n\nBAnQ also aims to provide structure, support and advise public bodies regarding the management of their materials, ensure the preservation of public archives, make them more accessible and boost their visibility. The institution is also responsible for promoting the preservation and accessibility of private archives.\n\nTo this end, BAnQ carries out the responsibilities provided under the Archives Act. In the archival field, the institution can also provide research support services and contribute to the development and international outreach of Quebec heritage materials and expertise.\n\nBAnQ serves as the official representative of the Agence francophone pour la numérotation internationale du livre (AFNIL) regarding the assignment of ISBN prefixes in Quebec and Canada.\n\nBAnQ is responsible for acquiring, processing, preserving and highlighting the heritage collections. These collections bring together the entire production of printed materials in Quebec, mostly through legal deposit, and of Quebec-related materials. The Preservation Branch (Direction générale de la conservation) which handles this aspect of the institution's mission, operates out of BAnQ Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie, in Montreal. Designed to ensure the long-term preservation of the materials stored there, the facility also houses BAnQ's head office. Patrons can access the heritage collections' materials in the reading room of the Collection nationale, located in the Grande Bibliothèque. The special collections, however, can be viewed on site at BAnQ Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie.\n\n\"Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec\" carries out its activities in the archival field through 10 regional facilities: BAnQ Vieux-Montréal, BAnQ Québec, BAnQ Gaspé, BAnQ Gatineau, BAnQ Rimouski, BAnQ Saguenay, BAnQ Sherbrooke, BAnQ Trois-Rivières, BAnQ Rouyn-Noranda and BAnQ Sept-Îles.\n\nThe Montreal facility is housed in the Gilles Hocquart Building, formerly the HEC Montréal building, on Avenue Viger. The Quebec City facility is located in the Louis-Jacques-Casault pavilion on the Université Laval campus.\n\nLocated in the \"Quartier Latin\", in the heart of Montreal, the Grande Bibliothèque is the flagship library facility of the \"Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec\". This major public library was specifically designed to encourage the discovery and exploration of BAnQ's collections with free and open access. Materials from the universal collection are available for circulation while rarer documents such as most of the legal deposit collection can be consulted on site. The building, each of its six levels fostering a different atmosphere, opened to the public in 2005. Its patrons include scholars and the general public alike. It welcomes close to 50,000 visitors each week.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1810432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1810432", "title": "Bolek and Lolek", "text": "Bolek and Lolek\n\nBolek and Lolek are two Polish cartoon characters from the children's TV animated comedy series by the same title (\"Bolek i Lolek\" in Polish). They were partially created by Alfred Ledwig before being developed by Władysław Nehrebecki and Leszek Lorek. The series is about two young brothers and their fun (and sometimes silly) adventures which often involve spending a lot of time outdoors.\n\nThe characters first appeared in an animated film in 1962. Their names are diminutives of Bolesław and Karol. In English, the cartoon was distributed as Bennie & Lennie and Jym and Jam. Some episodes were seen as part of Nickelodeon's \"Pinwheel\". In 1973 the creators of the film placed on the request from the female viewing audience a girl character by the name of Tola, a little girl who lives in the forest, and meets Bolek and Lolek there. The first time she appeared in occurred in the episode entitled \"Tola\". In total, Tola appeared in 30 episodes.\n\nIn a similar vein to The Pink Panther theatrical cartoons, most episodes do not have dialogues. Exceptions are feature-length films and the series from the 1980s, where the main characters' voices were done by: Bolek – Ewa Złotowska, Ilona Kuśmierska; Lolek – Danuta Mancewicz, Danuta Przesmycka.\n\nDuring the period of the Polish People's Republic, Bolek and Lolek were reproduced in a large quantity of toys: action figures, movies, postcards, online arcades, puzzles, etc., which can be seen in the Museum of Dobranocki (bed-time stories) of the PRL. They are also currently made in computer programs, coloring books, general picture books and games.\n\nOf all the Polish animated cartoons Bolek and Lolek ranks as the number one all-time favorite. The series was popular in many countries, and was one of the few animated films allowed to be broadcast by Iranian television, along with other popular Polish animated cartoon Reksio, just after the Iranian Revolution of 1979.\n\nIn 2011 a monument of Bolek and Lolek was erected in Bielsko-Biała.\n\nThe copyright holders of Polish cartoon Bolek and Lolek filed a lawsuit in 2006 to examine a case of the illegal use of the images of Bolek and Lolek by German homosexuals who wanted to encourage German homosexual minorities to participate in the Warsaw Pride Parade.\n\nThe copyright holders, Alfred Ledwig, Władysław Nehrebecki, and Leszek Lorek, felt indignant with what they alleged to be an illegal use of the images of Bolek and Lolek on the cover of German magazine \"Siegessäule\" without their permission. The characters had been changed, and Bolek was transformed into a woman. The owners took particular offense to the suggestion of Bolek and Lolek's apparent homosexuality in the image. During one of the interviews, Roman Nehrebecki commented, \"The most important thing for me is that children were used for the purposes they should not be used for, for promoting ideas and organizations.\" The residents of Bielsko-Biała, the city where Bolek and Lolek were created, also signed petitions against the improper use of the image of the characters.\n\nThe lawsuit lasted two years and took place in Berlin. The main line of defense of the magazine's owners was the fact that in 2005 the president of Warsaw, Lech Kaczyński, forbade the organization the Pride Parade, manifesting inclination toward uneven treatment of minorities. However, this argument was deemed insignificant by the court, since the subject of the dispute was violation of copyright on the image of Bolek and Lolek and not on the alleged unfair treatment of homosexual minorities. Despite the fact that the lawsuit was prolonged due to the complex German judicial proceedings, it was closed with an agreement. German magazine \"Siegessäule\" was obliged to pay the copyright owners 4,000 euro in compensation, as well as to publish an official apology in their pages.\n\n\n\"Bolek and Lolek\" - 13 Episodes, 1962–1964.\n\n\n\"Benny and Lenny on Vacation\" - 13 episodes, 1965–1966.\n\n\n\"Benny and Lenny travel the world\" - 18 episodes, 1968–1970.\n\n\n\"The Tales of Bolek and Lolek\" - 13 episodes, 1970–1971.\n\n\n\"The Adventures of Bolek and Lolek\" - 63 episodes, 1972–1980.\n\n\n\"Benny and Lenny in the Wild West\" - 7 episodes, 1971–1972.\n\n\n\"Fun with Bolek and Lolek\" - 7 episodes, 1975–1976.\n\n\n\"Bolek and Lolek's Great Journey\" - 15 episodes, 1978.\n\n\n\"Benny and Lenny Among the Miners\" - 7 episodes, 1980.\n\n\n\"Olympics with Bolek and Lolek\" - 13 episodes, 1983–1984.\n\n\n\"Benny and Lenny in Europe\" - 5 episodes, 1983–1986.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3097114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3097114", "title": "Britishness", "text": "Britishness\n\nBritishness is the state or quality of being British, or of embodying British characteristics. It comprises the claimed qualities that bind and distinguish the British people and form the basis of their unity and identity, and the expressions of British culture—such as habits, behaviours, or symbols—that have a common, familiar or iconic quality readily identifiable with the United Kingdom. Dialogue about the legitimacy and authenticity of Britishness is intrinsically tied with power relations and politics; in terms of nationhood and belonging, expressing or recognising one's Britishness provokes a range of responses and attitudes, such as advocacy, indifference, or rejection.\n\nAlthough the term 'Britishness' \"[sprang] into political and academic prominence\" only in the late 20th century, its origins lie with the formation of the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. It was used with reference to Britons collectively as early as 1682, and the historian Linda Colley asserts that it was after the Acts of Union 1707 that the ethnic groups of Great Britain began to assume a \"layered\" identity—to think of themselves as simultaneously British but also Scottish, English, and/or Welsh. In this formative period, Britishness was \"closely bound up with Protestantism\". The \"Oxford English Dictionary Online\" dates the first known use of the term Britishness to refer to the state of being British to a June 1857 issue of \"Putnam's Monthly Magazine\".\n\nSince the late 20th century, the exploration and proliferation of Britishness became directly associated with a desire to define, sustain or restore a homogeneous British identity or allegiance to Britain, prompting debate. For instance, the Life in the United Kingdom test—reported as a test of one's Britishness—has been described as controversial. The UK Independence Party have asserted that Britishness is tied with inclusive civic nationalism, whereas the Commission for Racial Equality reported that Scots, Welsh, Irish and ethnic minorities may feel quite divorced from Britishness because of ethnic English dominance; Gwynfor Evans, a Welsh nationalist politician, said that \"Britishness is a political synonym for Englishness which extends English culture over the Scots, Welsh, and the Irish\". Historians Graham Macphee and Prem Poddar state that Britishness and Englishness are invariably conflated as they are both tied to the identity of the British Empire and UK; slippage between the two words is common.\nWith regards to a proposed oath of allegiance for school leavers, historian David Starkey argued that it is impossible to teach Britishness because \"a British nation doesn't exist\".\n\nGordon Brown, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, made a speech in 2006 to promote the idea of Britishness. Brown's speech to the Fabian Society's Britishness Conference proposed that British values demand a new constitutional settlement and symbols to represent a modern patriotism, including a new youth community service scheme and a 'British Day' to celebrate.\n\nOne of the central issues identified at the Fabian Society conference was how the English identity fits within the framework of a devolved UK. Does England require a new constitutional settlement for instance?\n\nThe British government has sought to promote Britishness with the inaugural Veterans' Day (now called Armed Forces Day), first held on 27 June 2006. As well as celebrating the achievements of members of the armed forces, at the first event for the celebration Brown said: Scots and people from the rest of the UK share the purpose—that Britain has something to say to the rest of the world about the values of freedom, democracy, and the dignity of the people that you stand up for. So at a time when people can talk about football and devolution and money, it is important that we also remember the values that we share in common.\n\nCritics have argued that Brown's sudden interest in the subject had more to do with countering English opposition to a Scottish Member of Parliament becoming Prime Minister.\n\nIn November 2007 \"The Times\" newspaper's \"Comment Central\" asked readers to define Britishness in five little words. The winning suggestion was \"No motto please, we're British\".\n\nA duty to promote democracy forms a key part of the \"duty to actively promote fundamental British values in schools\" in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 78 of the Education Act 2002. According to the Department for Education’s advice for maintained schools in 2014, “Schools should promote the fundamental British values of democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty, and mutual respect and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs”. The Government's \"Prevent\" strategy of 2011 was cited as the source of this list of values, but that strategy also contained a slightly different list: “democracy, rule of law, equality of opportunity, freedom of speech and the rights of all men and \nwomen to live free from persecution of any kind.” The 2018 version of the CONTEST strategy codified the list as:\n\nThe same advice stated that UK schools must:\nfor example by\n\nNot all people residing in England and the United Kingdom are White due to immigration from other countries. According to the 2011 Census in England, around 85.4% of residents are White (British, Irish, other European), 7.8% Asian (mainly South Asian), 3.5% Black, 2.3% are of Mixed-race heritage, 0.4% Arab, and 0.6% identified as Other ethnicity, with a significantly higher ethnic minority population in large cities such as London.\n\nA survey conducted in 2007 found that the majority of people in many non-white ethnic minority groups living in Great Britain described their national identity as British, English, Scottish or Welsh. This included almost nine in ten (87%) of people with mixed heritage, 85% of Black Caribbean people, 80% of Pakistanis and 78% of Bangladeshis. Non-whites were more likely to describe themselves as British than whites. One-third of people from the White British group described themselves as British; the remaining two third of respondents identified themselves as English, Welsh, or Scottish ethnic groups. \n\nA study conducted for the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE) in 2005 found that, in England, the majority of ethnic minority participants identified primarily as British, whereas ethnic English participants identified as English first and British second. In Wales and Scotland, the majority of both white and ethnic minority participants identified as Welsh or Scottish first and British second, although they saw no incompatibility between the two identities. Other research conducted for the CRE found that white participants felt that there was a threat to Britishness from large-scale immigration, the \"unfair\" claims that they perceived ethnic minorities made on the welfare state, a rise in moral pluralism, and political correctness. Much of this frustration was found to be targeted at Muslims rather than minorities in general. Muslim participants in the study reported feeling victimised and stated that they felt that they were being asked to choose between Muslim and British identities, whereas they saw it possible to be both at the same time.\n\nThere is evidence that people in Scotland are increasingly likely to describe themselves as Scottish, and less likely to say they are British. A 2006 study by social scientists at the Universities of Edinburgh, Dundee, St Andrews and Lancaster shows that more than eight out of ten people in Scotland saw themselves as Scottish. At the same time, there has been a long-term decline in Scots defining themselves as British, although more than half of the people in the survey saw themselves as British.\n\nIn the 2011 Census in Scotland:\n\nThe Scottish National Party MSP and Cabinet Secretary for Justice, Kenny MacAskill gave the following submission to the UK Parliament's Joint Committee on Human Rights in March 2008 discussing a British Bill of Rights:\n\nWhat is meant by Britishness? Is there a concept of Britishness? Yes, just as there is a concept of being Scandinavian. We eat fish and chips, we eat chicken masala, we watch EastEnders. Are [the SNP] British? No, we are not. We consider ourselves Scottish.\n\nSimilar to Scotland, results from the Annual Population Survey (APS) conducted by the Office for National Statistics, show that the majority of people residing in Wales describe themselves as Welsh. Respondents were asked whether they considered their national identity to be 'Welsh', or 'Non-Welsh' (defined as: 'English', 'Scottish', 'Irish', 'British' or 'Other'). In June 2017, 63.2% of respondents in Wales defined their national identity as 'Welsh'.\n\nIn a 1998 poll, 37% of Scottish National Party voters stated themselves to be \"Scottish, not British\", the rest demonstrating some form of British identity, with the most popular choice being \"More Scottish than British\" (41%). This conclusion was again put forward in 2002, with similar figures cited. However, the British Social Attitudes Survey of 2007 found that only 21% of Scots saw themselves as 'Equally Scottish and British', with less than half choosing British as a secondary identity. The report concluded that 73% of respondents saw themselves as 'only' or 'mainly' Scottish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32841394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32841394", "title": "Chōsen-seki", "text": "Chōsen-seki\n\nThis non-conventional category does not have effective representation in the government.\n\nChōsen-seki is a convention made by the Japanese government to register Korean residents in Japan shortly after the Surrender of Japan as if they had been stateless. The Korean people originally had Japanese citizenship during the Japanese occupation of the Korean Peninsula, but their Japanese citizenship was later revoked by Japanese government, after Japan surrendered and gave up sovereignty over Korea, first practically in 1947 under Edict of Foreigner Registration in 1947 () of Allied Occupied Japan, then finally and formally in 1952 in consequence of San Francisco Treaty.\n\nIn 1947 Koreans were still technically of Japanese citizenship although, Edict of Foreigner Registration Article 11 told to consider them as foreigners. Hence the Koreans who then resided in Japan were registered as \"of Chōsen\" according to their geographical origin as substitution of nationality. Since 1950s, after the foundation of South Korea in 1948 and its diplomatic actions to the Allied and later Japan, those Koreans have been able to reprocess their foreinger registration in Japan as South Korean nationals willingly. On the other hand, Koreans either who have been affiliated to North Korea or who have not renewed their registration data, they have remained in Chōsen-seki, in Japan practically as stateless.\n\nOn September 30, 2010, the Seoul High Court declared that an ethnic Korean from Japan with Chōsen-seki status is not a South Korean citizen and can be refused an entrance visa to South Korea.\n\nJapan delegates family law issues involving foreigners to the foreigners' home country. For example, Zainichi registered as South Korean have their wills determined by South Korean law. Chōsen-seki holders are arbitrarily assigned the family law of North or South Korea depending on whether they used the word \"Chōsen\" or \"Kankoku\" in official registration documents, as well as other considerations. Recently it has become more common to refer to South Korean law because it is easier to use. When North Korean law is employed, the court is often forced to fall back on Japanese law due to renvoi.\n\n"}
{"id": "590687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590687", "title": "Cobblestone", "text": "Cobblestone\n\nCobblestone is a natural building material based on cobble-sized stones, and is used for pavement roads, streets, and buildings.\n\nIn England, it was commonplace since ancient times for flat stones with a flat narrow edge to be set on edge to provide an even paved surface. This was known as a 'pitched' surface and was common all over Britain, as it did not require rounded pebbles. Pitched surfaces predate the use of regularly-sized granite setts by more than a thousand years. Such pitched paving is quite distinct from that formed from rounded stones, although both forms are commonly referred to as 'cobbled' surfaces. Most surviving genuinely old 'cobbled' areas are in reality pitched surfaces. A cobbled area is known as a \"causey\", \"cassay\" or \"cassie\" in Scots (probably from \"causeway\").\n\nSetts are often idiomatically referred to as \"cobbles\", although a sett is distinct from a cobblestone by being quarried or shaped to a regular form, whereas cobblestone is generally of a naturally occurring form.\n\nCobblestones are typically either set in sand or similar material, or are bound together with mortar. Paving with cobblestones allows a road to be heavily used all year long. It prevents the build-up of ruts often found in dirt roads. It has the additional advantage of not getting muddy in wet weather or dusty in dry weather. Shod horses are also able to get better traction on stone cobbles, pitches or setts than tarmac/asphalt. The fact that carriage wheels, horse hooves and even modern automobiles make a lot of noise when rolling over cobblestone paving might be thought a disadvantage, but it has the advantage of warning pedestrians of their approach. In England, the custom was to strew the cobbles outside the house of a sick or dying person with straw to dampen the sound.\n\nCobblestones set in sand have the environmental advantage of being permeable paving, and of moving rather than cracking with movements in the ground.\n\nCobblestones were largely replaced by quarried granite setts (also known as Belgian block) in the nineteenth century. The word cobblestone is often wrongly used to describe such treatment. Setts were relatively even and roughly rectangular stones that were laid in regular patterns. They gave a smoother ride for carts than cobbles, although in heavily used sections, such as in yards and the like, the usual practice was to replace the setts by parallel granite slabs set apart by the standard axle length of the time.\n\nCobblestoned and \"setted\" streets gradually gave way to macadam roads, and later to tarmac, and finally to asphalt concrete at the beginning of the 20th century. However, cobble­stones are often retained in historic areas, even for streets with modern vehicular traffic. Many older villages and cities in Europe are still paved with cobblestones or pitched.\n\nPopular television soap opera Coronation Street has cobblestones and they are often referenced in relation to reports on the show.\n\nIn recent decades, cobblestones have become a popular material for paving newly pedestrianised streets in Europe. In this case, the noisy nature of the surface is an advantage as pedestrians can hear approaching vehicles. The visual cues of the cobblestones also clarify that the area is more than just a normal street. The use of cobblestones/setts is also considered to be a more \"upmarket\" roadway solution, having been described as \"unique and artistic\" compared to the normal asphalt road environment.\n\nIn older U.S. cities such as Philadelphia, Boston, Pittsburgh, New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, New Castle, Portland (Maine), Baltimore, Charleston, and New Orleans, many of the older streets are paved in cobblestones and setts (mostly setts); however, many such streets have been paved over with asphalt, which can crack and erode away due to heavy traffic, thus revealing the original stone pavement.\n\nIn some places such as Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, as late as the 1990s some busy intersections still showed cobblestones through worn down sections of pavement. In Toronto streets using setts were used by streetcar routes and disappeared by the 1980s, but are still found in the Distillery District.\n\nMany cities in Latin America, such as Buenos Aires, Argentina; Zacatecas and Guanajuato, in Mexico; Old San Juan, Puerto Rico; Philippines, Vigan; and Montevideo, Uruguay, are well known for their many cobblestone streets, which are still operational and in good condition. They are still maintained and repaired the traditional manner, by placing and arranging granite stones by hand.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, there are old cobblestone paths with colored marbles and limestones. The design with three colors (red/limestone, black/limestone, white/marble) has a long tradition in Bohemia. The cubes of the old ways are handmade.\n\nIn the Finger Lakes Region of New York State, the retreat of the glaciers during the last ice age left numerous small, rounded cobblestones available for building. Pre-Civil War architecture in the region made heavy use of cobblestones for walls. Today, the fewer than 600 remaining cobblestone buildings are prized as historic locations, most of them private homes. They are clustered south of Lake Ontario, between Buffalo and Syracuse. There is also a cluster of cobblestone buildings in the Town of Paris, Ontario. In addition to homes, cobblestones were used to build barns, stagecoach taverns, smokehouses, stores, churches, schools, factories, and cemetery markers. The history of building with cobblestones and 17 driving tours to see the remaining structures are found in \"Cobblestone Quest - Road Tours of New York's Historic Buildings\".\n\nThe only public cobblestone building is the Alexander Classical School, located in Alexander, New York.\n\nIn cycling road races, cobblestones are used as an additional difficulty for the riders. It requires a certain skill to ride cobblestones efficiently, without falling or getting a flat tire. Tour of Flanders and Paris–Roubaix are notable cobbled classics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56520", "title": "Conservation easement", "text": "Conservation easement\n\nIn the United States, a conservation easement (also called conservation covenant, conservation restriction or conservation servitude) is a power invested in a qualified private land conservation organization (often called a \"land trust\") or government (municipal, county, state or federal) to constrain, as to a specified land area, the exercise of rights otherwise held by a landowner so as to achieve certain conservation purposes. It is an interest in real property established by agreement between a landowner and land trust or unit of government. The conservation easement \"runs with the land\", meaning it is applicable to both present and future owners of the land. As with other real property interests, the grant of conservation easement is recorded in the local land records; the grant becomes a part of the chain of title for the property.\n\nThe conservation easement's purposes will vary depending on the character of the particular property, the goals of the land trust or government unit, and the needs of the landowners. For example, an easement’s purposes (often called \"conservation objectives\") might include any one or more of the following:\n\nThe conservation easement's administrative terms for advancing the conservation objectives also vary but typically forbid or substantially constrain subdivision and other real estate development.\n\nThe most distinguishing feature of the conservation easement as a conservation tool is that it enables users to achieve specific conservation objectives on the land while keeping the land in the ownership and control of landowners for uses consistent with the conservation objectives.\n\nThe decision to place a conservation easement on a property is strictly a voluntary one whether the easement is sold or donated. The restrictions of the easement, once set in place, are perpetual (and potentially reduce the resale value of the associated property). Appraisals of the value of the easement, and financial arrangements between the parties (land owner and land trust), generally are kept private.\n\nThe landowner who grants a conservation easement continues to privately own and manage the land and may receive significant state and federal tax advantages for having donated and/or sold the conservation easement. In accepting the conservation easement, the easement holder has a responsibility to monitor future uses of the land to ensure compliance with the terms of the easement and to enforce the terms if a violation occurs.\n\nAlthough a conservation easement prohibits certain uses by the landowner, such an easement does not make the land public. On the contrary, many conservation easements confer no use of the land either to the easement holder or to the public. Furthermore, many conservation easements reserve to the landowner specific uses which if not reserved would be prohibited. Some conservation easements confer specific uses to the easement holder or to the public. These details are spelled out in the legal document that creates the conservation easement.\n\nLandowners in the United States who donate a \"qualifying\" conservation easement to a \"qualified\" land protection organization under the regulations set forth in 170(h) of the Internal Revenue Code may be eligible for a federal income tax deduction equal to the value of their donation. The value of the easement donation, as determined by a qualified appraiser, equals the difference between the fair market value of the property before and after the easement takes effect.\n\nTo qualify for this income tax deduction, the easement must be: a) perpetual; b) held by a qualified governmental or non-profit organization; and, c) serve a valid \"conservation purpose\", meaning the property must have an appreciable natural, scenic, historic, scientific, recreational, or open space value. As a result of legislation signed by President George W. Bush on August 17, 2006 (H.R. 4 The Pensions Protection Act of 2006), in 2006 and 2007, conservation easement donors were able to deduct the value of their gift at the rate of 50% of their adjusted gross income (AGI) per year. Further, landowners with 50% or more of their income from agriculture were able to deduct the donation at a rate of 100% of their AGI. Any amount of the donation remaining after the first year could be carried forward for fifteen additional years (allowing a maximum of sixteen years within which the deduction may be utilized), or until the amount of the deduction has been used up, whichever comes first. With the passage of the Farm Bill in the summer of 2008 these expanded federal income tax incentives were extended such that they also apply to all conservation easements donated in 2008 and 2009 and then this provision was extended again to apply to donations in 2010 and 2011. The provision has since expired and currently for 2012, conservation easement donations may only be deducted at the rate of 30% of the donor's AGI and after the first year the donor has a five-year carryforward.\n\nLand conservation advocates have long tried to enact additional tax incentives for landowners to donate easements, above the federal charitable deduction (and state tax deduction in states that conform to federal tax process). There has been discussion of creating a federal income tax credit for easement donors since around 1980. However, no federal tax credit has been enacted. States, however, have moved ahead to grant credits that can be used to pay state income tax to donors of qualified conservation easements. In 1983, North Carolina became the first state to establish such a program.\n\nAttorney Philip Tabas of The Nature Conservancy promoted the state tax credit idea widely in the 1990s. In 1999, four state legislatures enacted state tax credit programs (Virginia, Delaware, Colorado, and Connecticut, in that order). South Carolina and California followed in 2000. Several other states have followed since.\n\nFor landowners with little income subject to state taxation, a tax credit is a hollow reward for reducing the value of real property by donating a conservation easement. To respond to this, Colorado conservationists made their state tax credit transferable in 2000—that is, the donor/landowner can sell her/his credit to other parties; the buyers then use the purchased tax credit to pay their Colorado income tax. This is appealing to buyers because the credit is sold at a discount from face value. Virginia followed by enacting transferability in 2002. Delegate Bill Howell (now Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates) introduced HB1322, which had been suggested to him by conservationists Charles Davenport and Phil Hocker. HB1322 was enacted, effective retroactively to January 1, 2002. Other states have followed since. However, \"caps\" on the amount of credit an easement can generate, and other restrictions, limit the scope of the different state tax credit programs in varying manners.\n\nIn the states where credit for conservation land donations is transferable, free markets have arisen. Brokers assist landowners with excess credit to contact buyers, and the brokers often handle payments and paperwork to protect the principals, and to ensure that transfers are fully reported to the state tax authorities. The federal and state tax treatment of profits from sale and use of transferable tax credit have been the subject of extensive discussion and the issuance of several guidance documents by the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nThe New Mexico state income tax credit was originated in 2003.[SB 581] New transferability legislation, effective January 1, 2008, applies retroactively to conservation easements effected from January 1, 2004.\n\nThe Virginia transferable credit program is the largest among the States in dollar value of property conserved. By the end of 2010, $2,512,000,000 of property value had been donated as easements in Virginia for which tax credit was claimed. The qualifying easements cover over of Virginia landscape. The Virginia program now (2011) grants about $110 million of new tax credit each year. The credit allowance is 40% of the appraised value of the easement donation, so this equates to $275 million of property value donated per year for protection of wildlife habitat, farmland and woodland, and scenic open space—in perpetuity. The other state tax credit programs are smaller in dollar measurement, but are very significant in the area and the conservation values that they cause to be protected. The concept of state tax credit action (in the absence of a federal tax credit) that Philip Tabas and The Nature Conservancy promoted in the 1990s has borne remarkable fruit, and continues to expand today.\n\nFor landowners who will leave sizable estates upon their death, the most important financial impact of a conservation easement may be a significant reduction in estate taxes. Estate taxes often make it difficult for heirs to keep land intact and in the family because of high estate tax rates and high development value of land. It may be necessary to subdivide or sell land for development in order to pay these taxes which may not be the desire of the landowner or their heirs. A conservation easement can often provide significant help with this problem in three important ways:\n\n\nIn Pennsylvania, conservation restrictions on land included in the estate can reduce the inheritance tax owed.\n\nSome states (Colorado, Virginia, Maryland, and North Carolina) offer a state income tax incentive and many states offer property tax incentives to conservation easement donors. In Pennsylvania, conservation restrictions on land included in the estate can reduce the inheritance tax owed.\n\n\nMany conservation easements are purchased with funds from federal, state, and local governments, nonprofit organizations, or private donors. In these cases, landowners are paid directly for the purchase of the conservation easement.\n\nThe Farm Bill, updated every 5 or more years, provides an important source of funds for conservation easement purchase. The 2014 Farm Bill created the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program (ACEP) by consolidating the Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program, the Grassland Reserve Program, and the Wetlands Reserve Program. Under ACEP, the Natural Resources Conservation Service helps tribes, state and local governments, and land trusts protect agriculture from development and other non-agricultural uses. ACEP includes Agricultural Land Easements and Wetland Reserve Easements. Agricultural land easements preserve land for food production and aids in soil and water conservation. Wetland reserve easements aim to restore wetland areas that have been converted into agricultural land. To maximize the benefits, the program targets land that has both a high chance of restoration success and a history of low crop yields or crop failure. The Farm Bill also funds the purchase of conservation easements for forestland. The Forest Legacy Program is a voluntary Federal program in partnership with States which protects privately owned forest lands. Landowners are required to prepare a multiple resource management plan as part of the conservation easement acquisition.\n\nThe majority of states have direct funding sources for conservation. Commonly used funding sources include real estate transfer tax, legislative bonds, and lottery proceeds. For instance, in 2014, New Jersey added conservation funding from corporate business taxes through constitutional amendment, approved by 65% of voters. Many states and counties have programs for the purchase of agricultural conservation easements (PACE) to protect productive farmland from non-agricultural development. In 1974, Suffolk County in New York enacted the first PACE (also known as purchase of development rights or PDR) program. King County in Washington and the states of Maryland, Massachusetts, and Connecticut quickly followed suit. As of 2003, the PACE program operates in 23 states, including 19 statewide and more than 45 local programs. King County in Washington and the states of Maryland, Massachusetts, and Connecticut quickly followed suit. As of 2016, the PACE program operates in 32 states through both state and local programs.\n\nThe National Conservation Easement Database maps conservation easements and provides a resource for understanding what resources conservation easements protect in the U.S. As of 2018, the National Conservation Easement Database included over 130,000 conservation easements on 24.7 million acres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219210", "title": "Copy protection", "text": "Copy protection\n\nCopy protection, also known as content protection, copy prevention and copy restriction, is any effort designed to prevent the reproduction of software, films, music, and other media, usually for copyright reasons. Various methods have been devised to prevent reproduction so that companies will gain benefit from each person who obtains an authorized copy of their product. Unauthorized copying and distribution accounted for $2.4 billion in lost revenue in the United States alone in the 1990s, and is assumed to be causing impact on revenues in the music and the game industry, leading to proposal of stricter copyright laws such as PIPA. Some methods of copy protection have also led to criticisms because it caused inconvenience for honest consumers, or it secretly installed additional or unwanted software to detect copying activities on the consumer's computer. Making copy protection effective while protecting consumer rights is still an ongoing problem with media publication.\n\nMedia corporations have always used the term copy protection, but critics argue that the term tends to sway the public into identifying with the publishers, who favor restriction technologies, rather than with the users. Copy prevention and copy control may be more neutral terms. \"Copy protection\" is a misnomer for some systems, because any number of copies can be made from an original and all of these copies will work, but only in one computer, or only with one dongle, or only with another device that cannot be easily copied.\n\nThe term is also often related to, and confused with, the concept of digital rights management. Digital rights management is a more general term because it includes all sorts of management of works, including copy restrictions. Copy protection may include measures that are not digital. A more appropriate term may be \"technological protection measures\" (TPMs), which is often defined as the use of technological tools in order to restrict the use or access to a work.\n\nCopy protection is most commonly found on videotapes, DVDs, computer software discs, video game discs and cartridges, audio CDs and some VCDs.\n\nMany media formats are easy to copy using a machine, allowing consumers to distribute copies to their friends, a practice known as \"casual copying\".\n\nCompanies publish works under copyright protection because they believe that the cost of implementing the copy protection will be less than the revenue produced by consumers who buy the product instead of acquiring it through casually copied media.\n\nOpponents of copy protection argue that people who obtain free copies only use what they can get for free, and would not purchase their own copy if they were unable to obtain a free copy. Some even argue that free copies increase profit; people who receive a free copy of a music CD may then go and buy more of that band's music, which they would not have done otherwise.\n\nSome publishers have avoided copy-protecting their products, on the theory that the resulting inconvenience to their users outweighs any benefit of frustrating \"casual copying\".\n\nFrom the perspective of the end user, copy protection is always a cost. DRM and license managers sometimes fail, are inconvenient to use, and may not afford the user all of the legal use of the product he has purchased.\n\nThe term \"copy protection\" refers to the technology used to attempt to frustrate copying, and not to the legal remedies available to publishers or authors whose copyrights are violated. Software usage models range from node locking to floating licenses (where a fixed number licenses can be concurrently used across an enterprise), grid computing (where multiple computers function as one unit and so use a common license) and electronic licensing (where features can be purchased and activated online). The term \"license management\" refers to broad platforms which enable the specification, enforcement and tracking of software licenses. To safeguard copy protection and license management technologies themselves against tampering and hacking, software anti-tamper methods are used.\n\nFloating licenses are also being referred to as \"Indirect Licenses\", and are licenses that at the time they are issued, there is no actually user who will use them. That has some technical influence over some of their characteristics. \"Direct Licenses\" are issued after a certain user requires it. As an example, an activated Microsoft product, contains a \"Direct License\" which is locked to the PC where the product is installed.\n\nFrom business standpoint, on the other hand, some services now try to monetize on additional services other than the media content so users can have better experience than simply obtaining the copied product.\n\nFrom a technical standpoint, it would seem theoretically impossible to completely prevent users from making copies of the media they purchase, as long as a \"writer\" is available that can write to blank media. The basic technical fact is that all types of media require a \"player\" — a CD player, DVD player, videotape player, computer or video game console. The player has to be able to read the media in order to display it to a human. In turn, then, logically, a player could be built that first reads the media, and then writes out an exact copy of what was read, to the same type of media.\n\nAt a minimum, digital copy protection of non-interactive works is subject to the analog hole: regardless of any digital restrictions, if music can be heard by the human ear, it can also be recorded (at the very least, with a microphone and tape recorder); if a film can be viewed by the human eye, it can also be recorded (at the very least, with a video camera and recorder). In practice, almost-perfect copies can typically be made by tapping into the analog output of a player (e.g. the speaker output or headphone jacks) and, once redigitized into an unprotected form, duplicated indefinitely. Copying text-based content in this way is more tedious, but the same principle applies: if it can be printed or displayed, it can also be scanned and OCRed. With basic software and some patience, these techniques can be applied by a typical computer-literate user.\n\nSince these basic technical facts exist, it follows that a determined individual will definitely succeed in copying any media, given enough time and resources. Media publishers understand this; copy protection is not intended to stop professional operations involved in the unauthorized mass duplication of media, but rather to stop \"casual copying\".\n\nCopying of information goods which are downloaded (rather than being mass-duplicated as with physical media) can be inexpensively customized for each download, and thus restricted more effectively, in a process known as \"traitor tracing\". They can be encrypted in a fashion which is unique for each user's computer, and the decryption system can be made tamper-resistant.\n\nFor information on individual protection schemes and technologies, see List of copy protection schemes or relevant category page.\n\nCopy protection for computer software, especially for games, has been a long cat-and-mouse struggle between publishers and crackers. These were (and are) programmers who would defeat copy protection on software as a hobby, add their alias to the title screen, and then distribute the \"cracked\" product to the network of warez BBSes or Internet sites that specialized in distributing unauthorized copies of software.\n\nWhen computer software was still distributed in audio cassettes, audio copying was unreliable, while digital copying was time consuming. Software prices were comparable with audio cassette prices. To make digital copying more difficult, many programs used non-standard loading methods (loaders incompatible with standard BASIC loaders, or loaders that used different transfer speed).\n\nUnauthorized software copying began to be a problem when floppy disks became the common storage media. The ease of copying depended on the system; Jerry Pournelle wrote in \"BYTE\" in 1983 that \"CP/M doesn't lend itself to copy protection\" so its users \"haven't been too worried\" about it, while \"Apple users, though, have always had the problem. So have those who used TRS-DOS, and I understand that MS-DOS has copy protection features\". Apple and Commodore 64 computers were extremely varied and creative because most of the floppy disk reading and writing was controlled by software (or firmware), not by hardware. The first copy protection was for cassette tapes and consisted of a loader at the beginning of the tape, which read a specially formatted section which followed.\n\nThe first protection of floppy disks consisted of changing the address marks, bit slip marks, data marks, or end of data marks for each sector. For example, Apple’s standard sector markings were:\nChanging any of these marks required fairly minimal changes to the software routines in Apple DOS which read and wrote the floppy disk, but produced a disk that could not be copied by any of the standard copiers, such as Apple's COPYA program. Some protection schemes used more complicated systems that changed the marks by track or even within a track.\n\nPournelle disliked copy protection and, except for games, refused to review software that used it. He did not believe that it was useful, writing in 1983 that \"For every copy protection scheme there's a hacker ready to defeat it. Most involve so-called nibble/nybble copiers, which try to analyze the original disk and then make a copy\". IBM's Don Estridge agreed: \"I guarantee that whatever scheme you come up with will take less time to break than to think of it.\" While calling piracy \"a threat to software development. It's going to dry up the software\", he said \"It's wrong to copy-protect programs ... There ought to be some way to stop [piracy] without creating products that are unusable.\"\n\nBy 1980, the first 'nibble' copier, Locksmith, was introduced. These copiers reproduced copy protected floppy disks an entire track at a time, ignoring how the sectors were marked. This was harder to do than it sounds for two reasons: firstly, Apple disks did not use the index hole to mark the start of a track; their drives could not even detect the index hole. Tracks could thus start anywhere, but the copied track had to have this \"write splice\", which always caused some bits to be lost or duplicated due to speed variations, roughly in the same (unused for payload data) place as the original, or it would not work. Secondly, Apple used special \"self-sync\" bytes to achieve agreement between drive controller and computer about where any byte ended and the next one started on the disk. These bytes were written as normal data bytes followed by a slightly longer than normal pause, which was notoriously unreliable to detect on read-back; still, you had to get the self-sync bytes roughly right as without them being present in the right places, the copy would not work, and with them present in too many places, the track would not fit on the destination disk. Locksmith copied Apple II disks by taking advantage of the fact that these sync fields between sectors almost always consisted of a long string of FF (hex) bytes. It found the longest string of FFs, which usually occurred between the last and first sectors on each track, and began writing the track in the middle of that; also it assumed that any long string of FF bytes was a sync sequence and introduced the necessary short pauses after writing each of them to the copy. Ironically, Locksmith would not copy itself. The first Locksmith measured the distance between sector 1 of each track. Copy protection engineers quickly figured out what Locksmith was doing and began to use the same technique to defeat it. Locksmith countered by introducing the ability to reproduce track alignment and prevented itself from being copied by embedding a special sequence of nibbles, that if found, would stop the copy process. Henry Roberts (CTO of Nalpeiron), a graduate student in computer science at the University of South Carolina, reverse engineered Locksmith, found the sequence and distributed the information to some of the 7 or 8 people producing copy protection at the time.\n\nFor some time, Locksmith continued to defeat virtually all of the copy protection systems in existence. The next advance came from Henry Roberts' thesis on software copy protection, which devised a way of replacing Apple’s sync field of FFs with random appearing patterns of bytes. Because the graduate student had frequent copy protection discussions with Apple’s copy protection engineer, Apple developed a copy protection system which made use of this technique.\nHenry Roberts then wrote a competitive program to Locksmith, Back It UP. He devised several methods for defeating that, and ultimately a method was devised for reading self sync fields directly, regardless of what nibbles they contained.\n\nCopy protection sometimes caused software to not run on clones, such as the Apple II-compatible Laser 128. The back and forth struggle between copy protection engineers and nibble copiers continued until the Apple II became obsolete and was replaced by the IBM PC and its clones.\n\nIn 1989 Gilman Louie, head of Spectrum Holobyte, stated that copy protection added about $0.50 per copy to the cost of production of a game. Other software relied on complexity; \"Antic\" in 1988 observed that \"WordPerfect\" for the Atari ST \"is almost unusable without its manual of over 600 pages!\". (The magazine was mistaken; the ST version was so widely pirated that the company threatened to discontinue it.)\n\nFloppy disks were later displaced by CDs as the preferred method of distribution, with companies like Macrovision and Sony providing copy protection schemes that worked by writing data to places on the CD-ROM where a CD-R drive cannot normally write. Such a scheme had been used for the PlayStation and could not be circumvented easily without the use of a modchip.\n\nFor software publishers, a less expensive method of copy protection is to write the software so that it requires some evidence from the user that they have actually purchased the software, usually by asking a question that only a user with a software manual could answer (for example, \"What is the 4th word on the 6th line of page 37?\"). However, this approach can be exploited with the patience to copy the manual with a photocopier, and it also suffers from the issue of making the product more inconvenient for the end user to use.\n\nIt has become very common for software to require activation by entering some proof of legal purchase such as:\nTo limit reusing activation keys to install the software on multiple machines, it has been attempted to tie the installed software to a specific machine by involving some unique feature of the machine. Serial number in ROM could not be used because some machines do not have them. Some popular surrogate for a machine serial number were date and time (to the second) of initialization of the hard disk or MAC address of Ethernet cards (although this is programmable on modern cards). With the rise of virtualization, however, the practice of locking has to add to these simple hardware parameters to still prevent copying.\nAnother approach to associating user and/or machine with serial number is product activation over the Internet, where users are required to have access to the Internet so the information on which serial number is installed on which machine gets sent to a server to be authenticated. Unauthorized users are not allowed to install or use the software. Microsoft's Windows Genuine Advantage system is a far-reaching example of this.\nWith rise of Cloud computing, requiring Internet access is becoming more popular for software verification. Beyond online authentication, a standalone software may be integrated with the cloud so that key data or code is stored online. This could greatly strengthen the protection; for example, the software could store a property file or execute a process needed by the application in the cloud instead on the user's computer.\n\nThe copy protection schemes described above have all been criticized for causing problems for validly licensed users who upgrade to a new machine, or have to reinstall the software after reinitializing their hard disk. Some Internet product activation products allow replacement copies to be issued to registered users or multiple copies to the same license.\nLike all software, copy-protection software sometimes contains bugs, whose effect may be to deny access to validly licensed users. Most copy protection schemes are easy to crack, and once crackers circumvent the copy protection, the resulting cracked software is then more convenient and hence more valuable than the non-cracked version, because users can make additional copies of the software. Due to this problem, user-interactive copy protection by asking questions from manuals has mostly disappeared.\n\nIn his 1976 Open Letter to Hobbyists, Bill Gates complained that \"most of you steal your software.\" However, Gates initially rejected copy protection and said \"It just gets in the way.\"\n\nThere is also the tool of software blacklisting that is used to enhance certain copy protection schemes.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, video games sold on audio cassette and floppy disks were sometimes protected with an external user-interactive method that demanded the user to have the original package or a part of it, usually the manual. Copy protection was activated not only at installation, but every time the game was executed.\n\nSometimes the copy protection code was needed not at launch, but at a later point in the game. This helped the gamer to experience the game (e.g. as a demonstration) and perhaps could convince them to buy it by the time the copy protection point was reached.\n\nSeveral imaginative and creative methods have been employed, in order to be both fun and hard to copy. These include:\n\n\nAll of these methods proved to be troublesome and tiring for the players, and as such greatly declined in usage by the mid-1990s, at which point the emergence of CDs as the primary video game medium made copy protection largely redundant, since CD copying technology was not widely available at the time.\n\nWhile not strictly a software protection, some game companies offered \"value-added\" goodies with the package, like funny manuals, posters, comics, storybooks or fictional documentation concerning the game (e.g. the Grail Diary for Indiana Jones or a police cadet notebook with \"Police Quest\" or the Hero's manual of \"Quest for Glory\" or a copy of the \"National Inquisitor\" newspaper in \"Zak McKracken\") in order to entice gamers to buy the package. This trend is re-emerging in modern gaming as an incentive to both buy games and discourage their resale; some games like \"Forza Motorsport 3\" and \"\" provide bonus in-game material that will only be given if one buys the game new.\n\nWhen Sega's Dreamcast was released in 1998, it came with a newer disc format, called the GD-ROM. Using a modified CD player, one could access the game functionality. Using a special swap method could allow reading a GD-ROM game through a CD-ROM just using common MIL-CD (standard CD Boot loading, commonly found on Windows Installation Discs, Linux Live CDs, and others). Dreamcasts sold after October 2000 contain a newer firmware update, not allowing MIL-CD boot.\n\nThe Xbox has a specific function: Non-booting or non-reading from CDs and DVD-Rs as a method of game copy protection. Also, the Xbox is said to use a different DVD file system (instead of UDF). It has been theorized that the discs have a second partition that is read from the outside in (opposite current standards thus making the second partition unreadable in PC DVD drives) which give the tracks the appearance that the disc was spun backwards during manufacture. The Xbox 360 copy protection functions by requesting the DVD drive compute the angular distance between specific data sectors on the disc. A duplicated DVD will return different values than a pressed original would.\n\nThe PlayStation 2 has a map file that contains all of the exact positions and file size info of the CD in it, which is stored at a position that is beyond the file limit. The game directly calls the position at where the map file is supposed to be. This means that if the file is moved inside the limit, it is useless since the game is looking outside the limit for it, and the file will not work outside of the limit, making any copied disc unusable without a mod chip or the use of FMCB (free memory card boot). FMCB uses the memory card to trick the built-in DVD video software into booting copied games. Before a copied game can be played, it must have been patched with a free application.\n\nNintendo's Wii and Nintendo GameCube have their own specialty format for copy protection. It is based on DVD/miniDVD (Game Cube) technology; each disc contains some deliberately placed defects. The exact positions of these defects, which differ for each produced disc, is encoded encrypted in the BCA of each disc. The BCA is readable on most standard DVD-ROM Drives, but consumer burners can reproduce neither the BCA nor the defects. As an additional obfuscation mechanism, the on-disc sector format is a little bit different from normal DVDs. Nevertheless, it can be read using some consumer DVD-ROM drives with a firmware modification or \"debug mode\". It is also possible to hack the Wii to install unlicensed software, some of which can use the Wii's own drive to create disc images and then play these copies.\n\nThe PSP, except the PSP Go, uses the Universal Media Disc, a media format similar to a MiniDisc. It holds about 1.2 GB. Although it cannot be copied, one can make an ISO image (a file version of the UMD) on a memory card and play it on custom firmware, which can be installed on the PSP.\n\nThe PlayStation 3, Xbox One, and PlayStation 4 use Blu-ray BD-ROM discs. In addition to any protection provided by the consoles themselves, the BD-ROM format's specification allows for a ROM-Mark which cannot be duplicated by consumer-level recorders. The BD-ROM format, in addition, provides considerable capacity: up to 100 gigabytes per disc with potential revision to provide more (many BD-ROM games use 40-50 gigabytes), making it unwieldy for online file-sharing, a major method of video game copying. To prevent the consoles themselves being hacked and used as a means to defeat these protections (as happened with the Wii and partially with the PlayStation 3), contemporary consoles employ trusted hardware paths that authenticate the internal hardware and software prior to operation.\n\nSome game developers, such as Markus Persson, have encouraged consumers and other developers to embrace the reality of unlicensed copying and utilize it positively to generate increased sales and marketing interest.\n\nCompanies such as Macrovision and Dwight Cavendish provided schemes to videotape publishers making copies unusable if they were created with a normal VCR. All major videotape duplicators licensed Macrovision or similar technologies to copy protect video cassettes for their clients or themselves.\n\nStarting in 1985 with the video release of \"The Cotton Club\", Macrovision licensed to publishers a technology that exploits the automatic gain control feature of VCRs by adding pulses to the vertical blanking sync signal. These pulses do not affect the image a consumer sees on his TV, but do confuse the recording-level circuitry of consumer VCRs. This technology, which is aided by U.S. legislation mandating the presence of automatic gain-control circuitry in VCRs, is said to \"plug the analog hole\" and make VCR-to-VCR copies impossible, although an inexpensive circuit is widely available that will defeat the protection by removing the pulses. Macrovision has patented methods of defeating copy prevention, giving it a more straightforward basis to shut down manufacture of any device that descrambles it than often exists in the DRM world.\n\nAnother form of copy protection, MicroVision, was designed to prevent VCRs from recording a television program. Cable movie channels rejected it; Michael J. Fuchs of HBO said in 1985 that MicroVision was \"not good technology\" because it reduced picture quality and consumers could easily bypass it, while Peter Chernin of Showtime said \"we want to accommodate our subscribers and we know they like to tape our movies\".\n\nBy 2000, Napster had seen mainstream adoption, and several music publishers responded by starting to sell some CDs with various copy protection schemes. Most of these were playback restrictions that aimed to make the CD unusable in computers with CD-ROM drives, leaving only dedicated audio CD players for playback. This did not, however, prevent such a CD from being copied via an analogue connection or by ripping the CD under operating systems such as Linux, which was effective since copy-protection software was generally written for Microsoft Windows. These weaknesses led critics to question the usefulness of such protection.\n\nCD copy protection is achieved by assuming certain feature levels in the drives. The CD Digital Audio is the oldest CD standard and forms the basic feature set beyond which dedicated audio players need no instructions. CD-ROM drives additionally need to support mixed mode CDs (combined audio and data tracks) and multi-session CDs (multiple data recordings each superseding and incorporating data of the previous session).\n\nThe play preventions in use intentionally deviate from the standards and intentionally include malformed multisession data or similar with the purpose of confusing the CD-ROM drives to prevent correct function. Simple dedicated audio CD players would not be affected by the malformed data since these are for features they do not support—for example, an audio player will not even look for a second session containing the copy protection data.\n\nIn practice, results vary wildly. CD-ROM drives may be able to correct the malformed data and still play them to an extent that depends on the make and version of the drive. On the other hand, some audio players may be built around drives with more than the basic features required for audio playback. Some car radios with CD playback, portable CD players, CD players with additional support for data CDs containing MP3 files, and DVD players have had problems with these CDs.\n\nThe deviation from the Red Book standard that defines audio CDs required the publishers of these copy-protected CDs to refrain from using the official CDDA logo on the discs or the cases. The logo is a trademark owned by Philips and Sony and licensed to identify compliant audio discs only. To prevent dissatisfied customers from returning CDs which were misrepresented as compliant audio CDs, such CDs also started to carry prominent notices on their covers.\n\nIn general the audio can always be extracted by applying the principle of the analog hole. Additionally, such programs as IsoBuster may be capable of producing hidden audio files.\n\nExamples of CD copy protection schemes are Cactus Data Shield, Copy Control, and Data Position Measurement.\n\nMore recently, publishers of music and films in digital form have turned to encryption to make copying more difficult. CSS, which is used on DVDs, is a famous example of this. It is a form of copy protection that uses 40-bit encryption. Copies will not be playable since they will be missing the key, which is not writable on regular DVD-R or DVD-RW discs (except with special Qflix DVD-recorders and media). With this technique, the work is encrypted using a key only included in the firmware of \"authorized\" players, which allow only \"legitimate\" uses of the work (usually restricted forms of playback, but no conversion or modification). The controversial Digital Millennium Copyright Act provides a legal protection for this in the US, that would make it illegal to distribute \"unauthorized\" players—which was supposed to eliminate the possibility of building a DVD copier. However, encryption schemes designed for mass-market standardized media such as DVD suffer from the fundamental weaknesses that consumers have physical access to the devices containing the keys, and once implemented, the copy-protection scheme can never be changed without breaking the forward compatibility of older devices (or the backward compatibility of newer media). Since consumers are highly unlikely to buy new hardware for the sole purpose of preserving copy protection, manufacturers have been prevented from enhancing their DRM technology until recently, with the release of next-generation media such as HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc. This period represents more than enough time for the encryption scheme to be defeated by determined attackers. For example, the CSS encryption system used on DVD Video was broken within three years of its market release in November 1996 (see DeCSS), but has not been changed since, because doing so would immediately render all DVD players sold \"prior\" to the change incapable of reading new DVDs—this would not only provoke a backlash amongst consumers, but also restrict the market that the new DVDs could be sold to. More recent DVDs have attempted to augment CSS with additional protection schemes. Most modern schemes like ARccOS Protection use tricks of the DVD format in an attempt to defeat copying programs, limiting the possible avenues of protection—and making it easier for hackers to learn the innards of the scheme and find ways around it.\n\nThe newest generations of optical disc media, HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc, attempt to address this issue. Both formats employ the Advanced Access Content System, which provides for several hundred different decryption keys (for the varying models of players to hit the market), each of which can be invalidated (\"revoked\") should one of the keys be compromised. Revoked keys simply will not appear on future discs, rendering the compromised players useless for future titles unless they are updated to fix the issue. For this reason, all HD-DVD players and some Blu-ray players include an ethernet port, to give them the ability to download DRM updates. Blu-ray Disc goes one step further with a separate technique called BD+, a virtual machine that can execute code included on discs to verify, authorize, revoke, and update players as the need arises. Since the protection program is on the disc rather than the player, this allows for updating protection programs within BD's working life by simply having newer programs included on newer discs.\n\n4K resolution Blu-ray discs augment the existing Blu-ray protections. First, players must be dedicated devices that use protected hardware paths to ensure the entire process chain (from media to display) is not compromised. Second, some media require the use of players able to access the Internet for additional verification.\n\nOver time, software publishers (especially in the case of video games) became creative about crippling the software in case it was duplicated. These games would initially show that the copy was successful, but eventually render themselves unplayable via subtle methods.\nMany games use the \"code checksumming\" technique to prevent alteration of code to bypass other copy protection. Important constants for the game - such as the accuracy of the player's firing, the speed of their movement, etc. - are not included in the game but calculated from the numbers making up the machine code of other parts of the game. If the code is changed, the calculation yields a result which no longer matches the original design of the game and the game plays improperly.\n\n\n\"Copying commercial games, such as this one, is a criminal offense and copyright infringement.\"<br>\n\"Copying and re-supplying games such as this one can lead to a term of imprisonment.\"<br>\nThink of a pirated game as stolen property.<br>\n\"This game is protected by the FADE system. You can play with a pirated game- but not for long. The quality of a pirated game will degrade over time.\"<br>\n\"Purchase only genuine software at legitimate stores.\"\n\n\nThe usage of copy protection payloads which lower playability of a game without making it clear that this is a result of copy protection is now generally considered unwise, due to the potential for it to result in unaware players with unlicensed copies spreading word-of-mouth that a game is of low quality. The authors of FADE explicitly acknowledged this as a reason for including the explicit warning message.\n\nAnti-piracy measures are efforts to fight against copyright infringement, counterfeiting, and other violations of intellectual property laws.\n\nIt includes, but is by no means limited to, the combined efforts of corporate associations (such as the RIAA and MPAA), law enforcement agencies (such as the FBI and Interpol), and various international governments to combat copyright infringement relating to various types of creative works, such as software, music and films. These measures often come in the form of copy protection measures such as DRM, or measures implemented through a content protection network, such as Distil Networks or Incapsula. Richard Stallman and the GNU Project have criticized the use of the word \"piracy\" in these situations, saying that publishers use the word to refer to \"copying they don't approve of\" and that \"they [publishers] imply that it is ethically equivalent to attacking ships on the high seas, kidnapping and murdering the people on them\". \nCertain forms of Anti-Piracy (such as DRM), are considered by consumers to control the use of the products content after sale.\n\nIn the case \"MPAA v. Hotfile\", Judge Kathleen M. Williams granted a motion to deny the prosecution the usage of words she views as \"pejorative\". This list included the word \"piracy\", the use of which, the motion by the defense stated, would serve no purpose but to misguide and inflame the jury. The plaintiff argued the common use of the terms when referring to copyright infringement should invalidate the motion, but the Judge did not concur.\n\nToday copyright infringement is often facilitated by the use of file sharing. In fact, infringement accounts for 23.8% of all internet traffic in 2013. In an effort to cut down on this, both large and small film and music corporations have issued DMCA takedown notices, filed lawsuits, and pressed criminal prosecution of those who host these file sharing services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4231714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4231714", "title": "Cáin Adomnáin", "text": "Cáin Adomnáin\n\nThe Cáin Adomnáin (Law of Adomnán), also known as the \"Lex Innocentium\" (Law of Innocents), was promulgated amongst a gathering of Irish, Dál Riatan and Pictish notables at the Synod of Birr in 697. It is named after its initiator Adomnán of Iona, ninth Abbot of Iona after St. Columba. It is called the \"Geneva Accords\" of the ancient Irish, for its protection of women and non-combatants, extending the Law of Patrick, which protected monks, to civilians. The legal symposium at the Synod of Birr was prompted when Adomnáin had an aisling dream vision wherein his mother excoriated him for not protecting the women and children of Ireland.\n\nDuring almost two centuries, and more precisely the years 697-887, nine different ordinances were promulgated and kept in the record of the annals of Ireland. Each ordinance was issued either by a saint or monastic group. Three texts of these legislations have come to us, the earliest being Cáin Adomnáin - Lex Innocentium - proclaimed by Adomnán, abbot of Iona, at the synod of Birr in 697.\n\nAccording to D.N. Dumville, it is suspected that the promulgation of this law in 697 was a centennial commemoration of Columba, who died in 597. As a successor of Columba of Iona, Adomnán had sufficient prestige to assemble a conference of 91 chieftains and clerics from Ireland, Dál Riata, and Pictland at Birr to promulgate the new law. As well as being the site of a significant monastery, associated with Saint Brendan of Birr, Birr was close to the boundary between the Uí Néill-dominated northern half of Ireland, and the southern half, where the kings of Munster ruled. It, therefore, represented a form of neutral ground where the rival kings and clerics of both sides of Ireland could meet.\n\nVarious factors, including Marian devotion in seventh- and eighth-century Ireland, are supposed to have contributed to inspire Adomnán to introduce these laws, but it may also be that as Columba's biographer, he was prompted by the saint's example. It was originally known as the \"Law of the Innocents\" and focused on the beneficiary noncombatants. Upon its renewal in 727, it referenced its author.\n\nThe indigenous Brehon Laws were committed to parchment about the 7th century, most likely by clerics. Most scholars now believe that the secular laws were not compiled independently of monasteries. Adomnan would have had access to the best legal minds of his generation.\n\nThis set of laws were designed, among other things, to guarantee the safety and immunity of various types of noncombatants in warfare. It required, for example, that \"whoever slays a woman... his right hand and his left foot shall be cut off before death, and then he shall die.\"\n\nIf a woman committed murder, arson, or theft from a church, she was to be set adrift in a boat with one paddle and a container of gruel. This left the judgment up to God and avoided violating the proscription against killing a woman.\n\nThe laws also provided sanctions against many things like the killing of children, clerics, clerical students and peasants on clerical lands; rape; impugning the chastity of a noblewoman and women from having to take part in warfare. Much repeated traditional Irish laws.\n\nThe law described both the secular fines which criminals must pay and the ritual curses to which lawbreakers were subject. Bystanders who did nothing to prevent the crime were as liable as the perpetrator. \"Stewards of the Law\" collected the fine and paid it to the victim or next of kin.\n\nAdomnán's initiative appears to be one of the first systematic attempts to lessen the savagery of warfare among Christians, a remarkable achievement for a churchman on the remote outer edge of Europe. In it, he gave local expression, in the context of the Gaelic legal tradition, to a wider Christian movement to restrain violence.\n\nIt was an early example of international law in that it was to be enforced in Ériu and Albu, (Ireland and Britain) although Britain refers to only what is now northern Scotland for it was the kings of that region who were guarantors of the Law.\n\nAs with later clerical efforts, such as the Peace and Truce of God movement in millennial France, the law may have been of limited effectiveness. Fergus Kelly notes that no cases relating to the Cáin Adomnáin have been preserved. Thus, it is unknown whether the harsh penalties which it mandates, which may have contradicted the general character of Irish law, were rigidly enforced.\n\nThere are annalistic examples of the justice of the Cáin Adomnáin being applied, such as here by Cenél nEógain High King Niall Glúndub, for whom the O'Neill Clan of Ulster are named.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166811", "title": "Do not resuscitate", "text": "Do not resuscitate\n\nDo Not Resuscitate (DNR), also known as no code or allow natural death, is a legal order written either in the hospital or on a legal form to withhold cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) or advanced cardiac life support (ACLS), in respect of the wishes of a patient in case their heart were to stop or they were to stop breathing. The DNR request is usually made by the patient or health care power of attorney and allows the medical teams taking care of them to respect their wishes. In the health care community, allow natural death (AND) is a term that is quickly gaining favor as it focuses on what is being done, not what is being avoided. Some criticize the term \"do not resuscitate\" because of the implication of important treatment being withheld, while research shows that only about 5% of patients who require CPR outside the hospital and only 15% of patients who require CPR while in the hospital survive. Patients who are elderly, are living in nursing homes, have multiple medical problems, or who have advanced cancer are much less likely to survive.\n\nA DNR does not affect any treatment other than that which would require intubation or CPR. Patients who are DNR can continue to get chemotherapy, antibiotics, dialysis, or any other appropriate treatments.\n\"DNR\" and \"Do Not Resuscitate\" are common terms in the United States, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. This may be clarified in some regions with the addition of \"DNI\" (Do Not Intubate), although in some hospitals \"DNR\" alone will imply no intubation. Clinically, the vast majority of people requiring resuscitation will require intubation, making a DNI alone problematic. Hospitals sometimes use the expression \"no code\", which refers to the jargon term \"code\", short for \"Code Blue\", an alert a hospital's resuscitation team.\n\nSome areas of the United States and the United Kingdom include the letter A, as in \"DNAR\", to clarify \"Do Not \"Attempt\" Resuscitation.\" This alteration is so that it is not presumed by the patient or family that an attempt at resuscitation will be successful. Since the term DNR implies the omission of action, and therefore \"giving up\", some have advocated for these orders to be retermed \"Allow Natural Death\". New Zealand and Australia, and some hospitals in the UK, use the term \"NFR\" or \"Not For Resuscitation\". Typically these abbreviations are not punctuated, e.g., \"DNR\" rather than \"D.N.R.\"\n\nResuscitation orders, or lack thereof, can also be referred to in the United States as a part of Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) or Medical Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) orders, typically created with input from next of kin when the patient or client is not able to communicate their wishes.\n\nAnother synonymous term is \"not to be resuscitated\" (\"NTBR\").\n\nUntil recently in the UK it was common to write \"Not for 222\" or conversationally, \"Not for twos.\" This was implicitly a hospital DNR order, where 222 (or similar) is the hospital telephone number for the emergency resuscitation or crash team.\n\nAdvance directives and living wills are documents written by individuals themselves, so as to state their wishes for care, if they are no longer able to speak for themselves. In contrast, it is a physician or hospital staff member who writes a DNR \"physician's order,\" based upon the wishes previously expressed by the individual in his or her advance directive or living will. Similarly, at a time when the individual is unable to express his wishes, but has previously used an advance directive to appoint an agent, then a physician can write such a DNR \"physician's order\" at the request of that individual's agent. These various situations are clearly enumerated in the \"sample\" DNR order presented on this page.\n\nIt should be stressed that, in the United States, an advance directive or living will is not sufficient to ensure a patient is treated under the DNR protocol, even if it is their wish, as neither an advance directive nor a living will is a legally binding document.\n\nDNR orders in certain situations have been subject to ethical debate. In many institutions it is customary for a patient going to surgery to have their DNR automatically rescinded. Though the rationale for this may be valid, as outcomes from CPR in the operating room are substantially better than general survival outcomes after CPR, the impact on patient autonomy has been debated. It is suggested that facilities engage patients or their decision makers in a 'reconsideration of DNR orders' instead of automatically making a forced decision.\n\nThere is accumulating evidence of a racial bias in DNR adoption. A 2014 study of end stage cancer patients found that non-Latino white patients were significantly more likely to have a DNR order (45%) than black (25%) and Latino (20%) patients. The correlation between preferences against life-prolonging care and the increased likelihood of advance care planning is consistent across ethnic groups.\n\nEthical dilemmas occur when a patient with a DNR attempts suicide and the necessary treatment involves ventilation or CPR. In these cases it has been argued that the principle of beneficence takes precedence over patient autonomy and the DNR can be revoked by the physician. Another dilemma occurs when a medical error happens to a patient with a DNR. If the error is reversible only with CPR or ventilation there is no consensus if resuscitation should take place or not.\n\nThere are also ethical concerns around how patients reach the decision to make themselves a DNR. One study found that when questioned in more detail, many patients who were DNR actually would have wanted the excluded interventions depending on the scenario. Most would prefer life saving intubation in the scenario of angioedema which typically resolves in days. One fifth of the DNR patients would want resuscitation for cardiac arrest but to have care withdrawn after a week. It is possible that providers are having a \"leading conversation\" with patients or mistakenly leaving crucial information out when discussing DNR. One study reported that physicians repeatedly give high intensity care to patients while deciding they themselves would be DNR under similar circumstances.\n\nThere is also the ethical issue of discontinuation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in DNR patients in cases of medical futility. A large survey of Electrophysiology practitioners, the heart specialists who implant pacemakers and ICD's noted that the practitioners felt that deactivating an ICD was not ethically distinct from withholding CPR thus consistent with DNR. Most felt that deactivating a pacemaker was a separate issue and could not be broadly ethically endorsed. Pacemakers were felt to be unique devices, or ethically taking a role of \"keeping a patient alive\" like dialysis.\n\nDNR documents are widespread in some countries and unavailable in others. In countries where a DNR is unavailable the decision to end resuscitation is made solely by physicians.\n\nDNRs are not recognized by Jordan. Physicians attempt to resuscitate all patients regardless of individual or familial wishes. The UAE have laws forcing healthcare staff to resuscitate a patient even if the patient has a DNR or does not wish to live. There are penalties for breaching the laws. In Saudi Arabia patients cannot legally sign a DNR, but DNR accepted by order of primary physician in case of terminally ill patients.\nIn Israel, it is possible to sign a DNR form as long as the patient is dying and aware of their actions.\n\nIn England and Wales, CPR is presumed in the event of a cardiac arrest unless a \"do not resuscitate\" order is in place. If they have capacity as defined under the Mental Capacity Act 2005 the patient may decline resuscitation, however any discussion is not in reference to consent to resuscitation and instead should be an explanation. Patients may also specify their wishes and/or devolve their decision-making to a proxy using an advance directive, which are commonly referred to as 'Living Wills'. Patients and relatives cannot demand treatment (including CPR) which the doctor believes is futile and in this situation, it is their doctor's duty to act in their 'best interest', whether that means continuing or discontinuing treatment, using their clinical judgment. If they lack capacity relatives will often be asked for their opinion out of respect.\n\nIn Scotland, the terminology used is \"Do Not Attempt Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation\" or \"DNACPR\". There is a single policy used across all of NHS Scotland. The legal standing is similar to that in England and Wales, in that CPR is viewed as a treatment and, although there is a general presumption that CPR will be performed in the case of cardiac arrest, this is not the case if it is viewed by the treating clinician to be futile. Patients and families cannot demand CPR to be performed if it is felt to be futile (as with any medical treatment) and a DNACPR can be issued despite disagreement, although it is good practice to involve all parties in the discussion.\n\nIn the United States the documentation is especially complicated in that each state accepts different forms, and advance directives and living wills may not be accepted by EMS as legally valid forms. If a patient has a living will that specifies the patient requests of DNR but does not have a properly filled out state-sponsored form that is co-signed by a physician, EMS may attempt resuscitation.\n\nThe DNR decision by patients was first litigated in 1976 in In re Quinlan. The New Jersey Supreme Court upheld the right of Karen Ann Quinlan's parents to order her removal from artificial ventilation. In 1991 Congress passed into law the Patient Self-Determination Act that mandated hospitals honor an individual's decision in their healthcare. Forty-nine states currently permit the next of kin to make medical decisions of incapacitated relatives, the exception being Missouri. Missouri has a Living Will Statute that requires two witnesses to any signed advance directive that results in a DNR/DNI code status in the hospital.\n\nIn the United States, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) will not be performed if a valid written \"DNR\" order is present. Many states do not recognize living wills or health care proxies in the prehospital setting and prehospital personnel in those areas may be required to initiate resuscitation measures unless a specific state-sponsored form is properly filled out and cosigned by a physician.\n\nDo not resuscitate orders are similar to those used in the United States. In 1995, the Canadian Medical Association, Canadian Hospital Association, Canadian Nursing Association, and Catholic Health Association of Canada worked with Canadian Bar Association clarify and create a Joint Statement on Resuscitative Interventions guideline for use to determine when and how DNR orders are assigned. DNR orders must be discussed by doctors with the patient or patient agents or patient's significant others. Unilateral DNR by medical professionals can only be used if the patient is in a vegetative state.\n\nIn Australia, Do Not Resuscitate orders are covered by legislation on a state-by-state basis.\n\nIn Victoria, a Refusal of Medical Treatment certificate is a legal means to refuse medical treatments of current medical conditions. It does not apply to palliative care (reasonable pain relief; food and drink). An Advanced Care Directive legally defines the medical treatments that a person may choose to receive (or not to receive) in various defined circumstances. It can be used to refuse resuscitation, so as avoid needless suffering.\n\nIn NSW, a Resuscitation Plan is a medically authorised order to use or withhold resuscitation measures, and which documents other aspects of treatment relevant at end of life. Such plans are only valid for patients of a doctor who is a NSW Health staff member. The plan allows for the refusal of any and all life-sustaining treatments, the advance refusal for a time of future incapacity, and the decision to move to purely palliative care.\n\nDNRs are not recognized by Italy. Physicians must attempt to resuscitate all patients regardless of individual or familial wishes. Italian laws force healthcare staff to resuscitate a patient even if the patient has a DNR or does not wish to live. There are jail penalties (from 6 to 15 years) for healthcare staff breaching this law, e.g. \"omicidio del consenziente\". Therefore in Italy a signed DNR has no legal value.\n\n"}
{"id": "3842696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842696", "title": "Eastgate Centre, Harare", "text": "Eastgate Centre, Harare\n\nThe Eastgate Centre is a shopping centre and office block in central Harare, Zimbabwe whose architect is Mick Pearce. Designed to be ventilated and cooled by entirely natural means, it was probably the first building in the world to use natural cooling to this level of sophistication. It opened in 1996 on Robert Mugabe Avenue and Second Street, and provides 5,600 m² of retail space, 26,000 m² of office space and parking for 450 cars.\n\nThe Eastgate Centre's design is a deliberate move away from the \"big glass block\". Glass office blocks are typically expensive to maintain at a comfortable temperature, needing substantial heating in the winter and cooling in the summer. They tend to recycle air, in an attempt to keep the expensively conditioned atmosphere inside, leading to high levels of air pollution in the building. Artificial air-conditioning systems are high-maintenance, and Zimbabwe has the additional problem that the original system and most spare parts have to be imported, squandering foreign exchange reserves.\n\nMick Pearce, the architect, therefore took an alternative approach. Because of its altitude, Harare has a temperate climate despite being in the tropics, and the typical daily temperature swing is 10 to 14 °C. This makes a mechanical or passive cooling system a viable alternative to artificial air-conditioning.\n\nPassive cooling works by storing heat in the day and venting it at night as temperatures drop.\n\n\nPassively cooled, Eastgate uses only 10% of the energy needed by a similar conventionally cooled building.\n\nEastgate is emulated by London's Portcullis House (2001), opposite the Palace of Westminster. The distinctive giant chimneys on which the system relies are clearly visible.\n\nTo work well, the building must be very carefully designed. After computer simulation and analysis, the engineering firm Ove Arup, gave Pearce a set of rules.\nThey said that no direct sunlight must fall on the external walls at all and the north façade [direction of summer sun] window-to-wall area must not exceed 25%. They asked for a balance between artificial and external light to minimise energy consumption and heat gain. They said all windows must be sealed because of noise pollution and unpredictable wind pressures and temperatures, relying on ducted ventilation. Above all, windows must be light filters, controlling glare, noise and security.\n\nTo help with this last, the windows have adjustable blinds, but Pearce also used deep overhangs to keep direct sun off windows and walls. Deep eaves are a traditional solution in Africa, shading the walls completely from the high summer sun, while allowing the lower winter sun to warm the building in the morning.\n\nFurther, passive cooling systems are particularly appropriate for this part of Africa because, long before humans thought of it, passive cooling was being used by the local termites. Termite mounds include flues which vent through the top and sides, and the mound itself is designed to catch the breeze. As the wind blows, hot air from the main chambers below ground is drawn out of the structure, helped by termites opening or blocking tunnels to control air flow.\n\nPearce's practice is in Harare, and he specialises in buildings which are low cost, low maintenance, and have low environmental impact. His projects try to make best use of locally available resources, and include Harare International School Arts Centre, Harare Hindoo Temple and Chinhoyi Provincial Hospital, Zimbabwe. In 2003 Pearce was awarded the Prince Claus Award for culture and development, for his work on Eastgate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41534", "title": "Eldred v. Ashcroft", "text": "Eldred v. Ashcroft\n\nEldred v. Ashcroft, 537 U.S. 186 (2003), was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States upholding the constitutionality of the 1998 Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act (CTEA). The practical result of this was to prevent a number of works from entering the public domain in 1998 and following years, as would have occurred under the Copyright Act of 1976. Materials which the plaintiffs had worked with and were ready to republish were now unavailable due to copyright restrictions.\n\nInternet publisher Eric Eldred was the lead petitioner, and was joined by a group of commercial and non-commercial interests who relied on the public domain for their work (including Dover Publications) and a large number of \"amici\" including the Free Software Foundation, the American Association of Law Libraries, the Bureau of National Affairs, and the College Art Association. Eldred was represented by Lawrence Lessig and a team at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society.\n\nSupporting the law was United States Attornies General Janet Reno and John Ashcroft, along with a set of \"amici\" including the Motion Picture Association of America, the Recording Industry Association of America, ASCAP and Broadcast Music Incorporated.\n\nThe Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act (or CTEA) extended existing copyright terms by an additional 20 years from the terms set by the Copyright Act of 1976. The law affected both new and existing works (making it both a \"prospective\" extension as well as a \"retroactive\" one). Specifically, for works published before January 1, 1978 and still in copyright on October 27, 1998, the term was extended to 95 years. For works authored by \"individuals\" on or after January 1, 1978 (including new works), the copyright term was extended to equal the life of the author plus 70 years. For works authored by joint authors, the copyright term was extended to the life of the last surviving author plus 70 years. In the case of works-for-hire, anonymous or pseudonymous works, the term was set at 95 years from the date of first publication, or 120 years from creation.\n\nThe practical result of this was to prevent a number of works from entering the public domain in 1998 and following years, as would have occurred under the Copyright Law of 1976. Materials which the plaintiffs had worked with and were ready to republish were now unavailable due to copyright restrictions.\n\nThe lead petitioner, Eric Eldred, is an Internet publisher. Eldred was joined by a group of commercial and non-commercial interests who relied on the public domain for their work. These included Dover Publications, a commercial publisher of paperback books; Luck's Music Library, Inc., and Edwin F. Kalmus & Co., Inc., publishers of orchestral sheet music; and a large number of \"amici\" including the Free Software Foundation, the American Association of Law Libraries, the Bureau of National Affairs, and the College Art Association.\n\nSupporting the law were the U.S. government, represented by the Attorney General in an \"ex officio\" capacity (originally Janet Reno, later replaced by John Ashcroft), along with a set of \"amici\" including the Motion Picture Association of America, the Recording Industry Association of America, ASCAP and Broadcast Music Incorporated.\n\nThe original complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on January 11, 1999. The plaintiffs' argument was threefold:\n\n\nIn response, the government argued that Congress does indeed have the latitude to retroactively extend terms, so long as the individual extensions are also for \"limited times,\" as required by the Constitution. As an argument for this position, they referred to the Copyright Act of 1790, the first Federal copyright legislation, which applied Federal protection to existing works. Furthermore, they argued, neither the First Amendment nor the doctrine of public trust is applicable to copyright cases.\n\nOn October 28, 1999, Judge June Green issued a brief opinion rejecting all three of the petitioners' arguments. On the first count, she wrote that Congress had the power to extend terms as it wished, as long as the terms themselves were of limited duration. On the second count, she rejected the notion of First Amendment scrutiny in copyright cases, based on her interpretation of \"Harper and Row Publishers, Inc., v. Nation Enterprises\", an earlier Supreme Court decision. On the third count, she rejected the notion that public trust doctrine was applicable to copyright law.\n\nThe plaintiffs appealed the decision of the district court to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, filing their initial brief on May 22, 2000, and arguing the case on October 5 of the same year in front of a three-judge panel. Arguments were similar to those made in the district court, except for those regarding the public trust doctrine, which were not included in the appeal.\n\nInstead, the plaintiffs extended their argument on the copyright clause to note that the clause requires Congress to \"promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts,\" and argued that retroactive extensions do not directly serve this purpose in the standard \"quid pro quo\" previously required by the courts.\n\nThe case was decided on February 16, 2001. The appeals court upheld the decision of the district court in a 2-1 opinion. In his dissent, Judge David Sentelle agreed with the plaintiffs that CTEA was indeed unconstitutional based on the \"limited Times\" requirement. Supreme Court precedent, he argued, held that one must be able to discern an \"outer limit\" to a limited power; in the case of retrospective copyright extensions, Congress could continue to extend copyright terms indefinitely through a set of limited extensions, thus rendering the \"limited times\" requirement meaningless.\n\nFollowing this ruling, plaintiffs petitioned for a rehearing \"en banc\" (in front of the full panel of nine judges). This petition was rejected, 7–2, with Judges Sentelle and David Tatel dissenting.\n\nOn October 11, 2001, the plaintiffs filed a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court of the United States. On February 19, 2002, the Court granted certiorari, agreeing to hear the case.\n\nOral arguments were presented on October 9, 2002. Lead counsel for the plaintiff was Lawrence Lessig; the government's case was argued by Solicitor General Theodore Olson.\n\nLessig focused the Plaintiffs' brief to emphasize the Copyright clause restriction, as well as the First Amendment argument from the Appeals case. The decision to emphasize the Copyright clause argument was based on both the minority opinion of Judge Sentelle in the appeals court, and on several recent Supreme Court decisions authored by Chief Justice William Rehnquist: \"United States v. Lopez\" (1996) and \"United States v. Morrison\" (2000).\n\nIn both of those decisions, Rehnquist, along with four of the Court's more conservative justices, held Congressional legislation unconstitutional, because that legislation exceeded the limits of the Constitution's Commerce clause. This profound reversal of precedent, Lessig argued, could not be limited to only one of the enumerated powers. If the court felt that it had the power to review legislation under the Commerce clause, Lessig argued, then the Copyright clause deserved similar treatment, or at very least a \"principled reason\" must be stated for according such treatment to only one of the enumerated powers.\n\nOn January 15, 2003, the Court held the CTEA constitutional by a 7–2 decision. The majority opinion, written by Justice Ginsburg, relied heavily on the Copyright Acts of 1790, 1831, 1909, and 1976 as precedent for retroactive extensions. One of the arguments supporting the act was the life expectancy has significantly increased among the human population since the 18th century, and therefore copyright law needed extending as well. However, the major argument for the act that carried over into the case was that the Constitution specified that Congress only needed to set time limits for copyright, the length of which was left to their discretion. Thus, as long as the limit is not \"forever,\" any limit set by Congress can be deemed constitutional.\n\nA key factor in the CTEA’s passage was a 1993 European Union (EU) directive instructing EU members to establish a baseline copyright term of life plus 70 years and to deny this longer term to the works of any non-EU country whose laws did not secure the same extended term. By extending the baseline United States copyright term, Congress sought to ensure that American authors would receive the same copyright protection in Europe as their European counterparts.\n\nThe Supreme Court declined to address Lessig's contention that \"Lopez\" and \"Morrison\" offered precedent for enforcing the Copyright clause, and instead reiterated the lower court's reasoning that a retroactive term extension can satisfy the \"limited times\" provision in the copyright clause, as long as the extension itself is limited instead of perpetual. Furthermore, the Court refused to apply the proportionality standards of the Fourteenth Amendment or the free-speech standards in the First Amendment to limit Congress's ability to confer copyrights for limited terms.\n\nJustice Breyer dissented, arguing that the CTEA amounted to a grant of perpetual copyright that undermined public interests. While the constitution grants Congress power to extend copyright terms in order to \"promote the progress of science and useful arts,\" CTEA granted precedent to continually renew copyright terms making them virtually perpetual. Justice Breyer argued in his dissent that it is highly unlikely any artist will be more inclined to produce work knowing their great-grandchildren will receive royalties. With regard to retroactive copyright extension, he viewed it foolish to apply the government's argument that income received from royalties allows artists to produce more work saying, \"How will extension help today’s Noah Webster create new works 50 years after his death?\".\n\nIn a separate dissenting opinion, Justice Stevens also challenged the virtue of an individual reward, analyzing it from the perspective of patent law. He argued that the focus on compensation results only in “frustrating the legitimate members of the public who want to make use of it (a completed invention) in a free market.” Further, the compelling need to encourage creation is proportionally diminished once a work is already created. Yet while a formula pairing commercial viability to duration of protection may be said to produce more economically efficient results in respect of high technology inventions with shorter shelf-lives, the same perhaps cannot be said for certain forms of copyrighted works, for which the present value of expenditures relating to creation depend less on scientific equipment and research and development programs and more on unquantifiable creativity.\n\nLessig expressed surprise that no decision was authored by Chief Justice Rehnquist or by any of the other four justices who supported the \"Lopez\" or \"Morrison\" decisions. Lessig later expressed regret that he based his argument on precedent rather than attempting to demonstrate that the weakening of the public domain would cause harm to the economic health of the country.\n\nWithin a year of \"Eldred\", it was serving as decisive precedent. Two cases, \"Luck’s Music Library, Inc. v. Ashcroft and Peters\" and \"Golan v. Ashcroft and Peters\", challenged the constitutionality of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act on the grounds that its \"restoration amendment,\" which provided copyright restriction to foreign works that were in the public domain because foreign works were formerly not copyrightable, violated the First Amendment rights of those who would no longer be able to perform the works without observing copyright. The court cited \"Eldred\" and dismissed \"Luck's Music\" on the grounds that the First Amendment did not protect the ability to use others' words as much as it does protect one's ability to use their own. \"Golan v. Ashcroft and Peters\"s Uruguay Round portion survived a motion to dismiss even though its own challenge to the Sonny Bono Act did not. That case culminated in \"Golan v. Holder\", which held that there was nothing in the Constitution preventing the government from taking works out of the public domain.\n\nA 2007 case, \"Kahle v. Gonzales\", worked from the \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\" opinion to argue that a change in copyright law as drastic as the change from opt-in to opt-out required a review in regard to freedom of speech. The plaintiffs, represented by Lawrence Lessig, argued that the limitations placed on speech and expression by copyright were drastically expanded and possibly too limiting. The Ninth Circuit determined that the argument was too similar to the one adjudicated in \"Eldred\" and dismissed the case.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4997335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4997335", "title": "English rule (attorney's fees)", "text": "English rule (attorney's fees)\n\nIn the field of law and economics, the English rule (capitalized as English Rule in some jurisdictions) is a rule controlling assessment of lawyers' fees arising out of litigation. The English rule provides that the party who loses in court pays the other party's legal costs. The English rule contrasts with the American rule, under which each party is generally responsible to pay its own attorneys' fees, unless a statute or contract provides for that assessment. The rationale for the English rule is that a litigant (whether bringing a claim or defending a claim) is entitled to legal representation and, if successful, should not be left out of pocket by reason of his or her own legal fees. It should be borne in mind that, in virtually all English civil litigation, damages are merely compensatory.\n\nNearly every Western democracy other than the United States follows the English rule.\n\nIn the United States the \"American rule\" is generally followed, each party bearing its own expense of litigation. Alaska has long been an exception to the U.S. pattern, where the English rule applies. A very limited version of the English rule was adopted in Texas during the 2011 legislative session that applies only to the filing of a baseless lawsuit. Tex. R. Civ. P. 91a. \nThen Texas governor Rick Perry called in his state of the state address for a one-way version of the English rule which would apply only to those who initiate a suit, the plaintiff. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38194800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38194800", "title": "Fiske v. Kansas", "text": "Fiske v. Kansas\n\nFiske v. Kansas, 274 U.S. 380 (1927), was a United States Supreme Court Case that was first argued May 3, 1926 and finally decided May 16, 1927.\n\nThe case began when Fiske, a Kansas resident, proclaimed the preamble of the radical labor union the Industrial Workers of the World:\nThat the working class and the employing class have nothing in common, and that there can be no peace so long as hunger and want are found among millions of working people and the few who make up the employing class have all the good things of life. Between these two classes a struggle must go on until the workers of the world organize as a class, take possession of the earth and the machinery of production and abolish the wage system. Instead of the conservative motto, 'A fair day's wages for a fair day's work,' we must inscribe on our banner the revolutionary watchword, 'Abolition of the wage system.' By organizing industrially we are forming the structure of the new society within the shell of the old.\n\nA Kansas statute defined \"criminal syndicalism\" as \"the doctrine which advocates crime, physical violence, arson, destruction of property, sabotage, or other unlawful acts or methods, as a means of accomplishing or effecting industrial or political ends, or as a means of effecting industrial or political revolution, or for profit . . .\" The law was applied by a state court and was charged if the accused in some fashion held these views and formed a group of followers with a similar intent. Fiske was tried and convicted of violating this act, and the judgement was upheld in the Supreme Court of Kansas. He then appealed to the Federal Supreme Court where his case was heard.\n\nThe federal question was whether the Syndicalism Act as applied in this case was repugnant to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The state offered no evidence as to the true beliefs and practices of Fiske and his organization. Fiske claimed that his organization in no way sought to bring about industrial change by illegal or criminal means.\n\nThe state of Kansas could prove neither that Fiske had any actual or imminent intent to illegally change the economic structure of the United States nor that he intended to overthrow the US government. Fiske's words were thus protected by the First Amendment and so could not be barred.\n\nThe Syndicalism Act was called \"an arbitrary and unreasonable exercise of the police power of the State.\" The law, applied as it had, was found to be a violation of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgement of the state court was reversed, and Fiske was found to be not in violation of any law.\n\nThis court decision further solidified the importance of the Due Process Clause by ensuring that the state recognize all the legal rights of a person and prevents the government from violating rights without a justifiable and pressing reason to do so. The case would also reinforce the \"imminent lawless action\" clause of \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\" in the future as well as other court cases, which ruled that commitment and imminent intent to act upon the plans was needed to convict someone of a similar criminal violation such as in this case. The case was seen as a victory for proponents of a stronger definition of the First Amendment and protected speech.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24457771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24457771", "title": "Frankenstein veto", "text": "Frankenstein veto\n\nA Frankenstein veto occurs when an American state Governor selectively deletes words from a bill, stitching together the remainder (\"à la\" Victor Frankenstein) to form a new bill different from that passed by the legislature.\n\nThe practice requires that a Governor have (or successfully claim) the power to veto individual words in a bill passed by the legislature rather than the bill \"in toto\". It became particularly prominent in Wisconsin, where it was used by Governors of both parties \"to create spending or to redirect tax funds in ways never approved by the Legislature\" by \"string[ing] together pieces of separate sentences to create a single new sentence...\" For instance, Governor Jim Doyle used selective deletion to transform \"a 272-word section of the Legislature's budget into a 20-word sentence that took $427 million from the transportation budget and gave it to public schools.\" The same technique was used the following year to raise the levy limits on local governments from 2% to 3.86%.\n\nThe \"Wisconsin State Journal\", in response, stated that \"no Governor should be allowed to veto all but a couple dozen words and figures across reams of text in state budgets to unilaterally create law from scratch.\" \"The New York Times\" called the practice \"a legislative twist on the game of Mad Libs.\"\n\nWISN provided a satirical example of how the Frankenstein veto works. Start with Governor Doyle's press release on the retirement of Brett Favre:\n\nThe Frankenstein veto allows that statement to be transformed into this one: \"Governor Jim Doyle will be suiting up in the green and gold next season as quarterback of the Packers.\" The trick is in selective deletion:\n\nWith this tool, and sufficient audacity, \"Governors could basically 'veto' into law just about anything they wanted.\"\n\nWisconsin had previously eliminated an even more extreme version—dubbed the \"Vanna White veto\"—in 1990 \"when they prohibited state leaders from deleting individual alphabetic letters and numerical characters in a bill to change the intent of the legislation\" in response to its controversial use by then-Governor Tommy Thompson. An amendment to the Wisconsin Constitution passed in 2008 sought to curb the practice even further, but its prohibition on \"crossing out words and numbers to create a new sentence from two or more sentences\" left intact the Governor's power to \"cross out words within a sentence to change its meaning, remove individual digits to create new numbers or delete entire sentences from paragraphs.\" This loophole has allowed the practice to continue, albeit less frequently.\n\n"}
{"id": "10122233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10122233", "title": "Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht, Internationaler Teil", "text": "Gewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht, Internationaler Teil\n\nGewerblicher Rechtsschutz und Urheberrecht, Internationaler Teil (GRUR Int) is a monthly journal published in German by Verlag C.H. Beck, Munich, Germany. The journal articles mainly concern European, foreign (i.e. foreign to Germany) and international intellectual property law. It has been published since 1952 and, as of 2007, had approximately 1,900 subscribers. The total annual volume amounts to approximately 1,000 printed pages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36537839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36537839", "title": "JNR dismissal lawsuit", "text": "JNR dismissal lawsuit\n\nThe JNR dismissal lawsuit is a lawsuit that resulted from the privatization of Japanese National Railways (JNR) in 1987, and its breakup into the seven Japan Railways Group companies. In March 1990, 1,047 mostly union workers were laid off, 966 of whom were from the National Railway Workers' Union (Kokuro), and two decades of lawsuits followed. The dispute was eventually settled in June 2010 for 20 billion yen, or about 22 million yen per worker for 904 plaintiffs.\n\nJNR, organized as a public corporation in 1949, had become unprofitable over subsequent decades. In the 1980s the Liberal Democratic Party government of prime minister Yasuhiro Nakasone decided to privatize the organization. Around this time other government bodies were also either wholly or partially privatized, such as Japan Tobacco and NTT in 1985.\n\nThe 326,000 workforce of JNR was highly unionized, with workers represented by a number of unions. By far the largest union was the National Railway Workers' Union (Kokuro), with 200,000 members. National Railway Motive Power Union (Doro), which had split off from Kokuro in 1951, had 38,000 members. Zendoro, which had been expelled from Doro in 1974, had 3,000 members. Doro-Chiba, which broke off from Doro in 1979, had 1,100 members.\n\nDoro-Chiba staged a 24-hour strike on November 28, 1985, to protest against the plans to privatize JNR and lay off workers. The government strongly condemned the strike, as government workers in Japan are forbidden to strike. In addition there were a number of acts of sabotage and vandalism that stranded 10 million commuters in Tokyo and 200,000 in Osaka. The 24-hour strike caused 135 trains between Tokyo and Chiba prefecture to be cancelled, and JNR's management decided to fire more than 100 workers for staging the illegal walkout. \n\nIn addition to the Doro-Chiba strike, a substantial amount of sabotage was done by the then-1,300 member strong radical leftist group Middle Core Faction, who claimed responsibility and said their actions were to support Doro-Chiba's strike. Communications lines were cut, fires were set at 27 locations in seven prefectures, and heavy damage was done to Asakusabashi Station in Tokyo around 7 a.m. by masked figures wearing helmets and throwing firebombs. No injuries were reported. Police raided offices of the Middle Core Faction and Doro-Chiba, and damage to bullet trail lines near Hiroshima that delayed trains between Tokyo and Kyushu appeared to have been caused by a time bomb and by noon 48 people were arrested, including leaders of the Middle Core Faction. Representatives of the larger Kokuro and Zendoro unions representing JNR workers condemned the \"anti-social\" attacks and apologized to commuters. According to sources inside the labor movement, Doro-Chiba was controlled by the Middle Core Faction.\n\nDoro-Chiba Union Chairman Hiroshi Nakano later issued a statement saying that: \"The attacks have nothing to do with the union.\" Of the 48 suspects arrested, 46 were from the Middle Core Faction and two were from the National Railway Workers' Union. Two of the suspects were later released.\n\nJNR unions were opposed to the privatization, and when it occurred, around 7,600 workers were not rehired by the privatized companies. Many of these were members of the National Railway Workers' Union (Kokuro), now affiliated to the National Trade Union Council (Zenrokyo), and the National Railway Locomotive Engineers' Union (Zendoro), now affiliated to the National Confederation of Trade Unions (Zenroren) as part of the All Japan Construction, Transport and General Workers' Union (\"Kenkoro-Tetsudo Honbu\"). There was substantial pressure on union members to leave their unions, and within a year, Kokuro's membership fell from 200,000 to 44,000. Workers who had supported the privatization, or those who left Kokuro, were hired at substantially higher rates than Kokuro members.\n\nThere was a government pledge that no one would be \"Thrown out onto the street\", so unhired workers were classified as \"needing to be employed\" and were transferred to the JNR Settlement Corporation, where they could be assigned for up to three years.\n\nAround 7,600 workers were transferred in this way, and around 2,000 of them were hired by JR firms, and 3,000 found work elsewhere. Mitomu Yamaguchi, a former JNR employee from Tosu in Saga prefecture who had been transferred to the JNR Settlement Corporation, later stated that their help in finding work consisted of giving him photocopies of recruitment ads from newspapers. \n\nThis period ended in April 1990, and 1,047 were dismissed. This included 64 Zendoro members and 966 Kokuro members. There were also 12 Doro-Chiba members who were not hired by the new companies, the reason given being that they had participated in the November 1985 strike.\n\nIn 1987, the Central Labor Relations Commission in Tokyo ruled that the JR Group had to either rehire or compensate workers who were not hired when JNR was privatized. The Labor Commission ruled that it was an Unfair Labor Practice as the members of Kokuro had been targeted, and anti-union discrimination is illegal under article seven of Japan's Trade Union Act. It also ruled that the JR Group companies, not the defunct JNR, were responsible.\n\nA group of 23 petitions filed after 1991 alleged that 1,800 union members in six prefectures had been discriminated against in violation of article seven of the Trade Union Act of 1949. Local labor relations commissions recognized discrimination in three prefectures, (Kanagawa, Tokyo, and Akita) and an order for redress was issued. The company appealed this to the Central Labour Relations Commission in Tokyo. The Central Labour Relations Commission brokered a deal, and in 2005, Kokuro withdrew the 23 cases claiming anti-union discrimination against its members. In return, the company paid compensation estimated at 360 million yen.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2006, Kokuro filed 340 complaints with various labor relations commissions, mostly related to the dismissal of the 1,047 JNR workers. In November 2006 the union and JR East struck an agreement to settle 61 related to discrimination against union members employed by JR. Kokuro agreed to withdraw the labor commission cases, and JR East agreed to pay compensation. This was considered to be a major step forward in reconciling Kokuro to JR.\n\nThe post-privatization dismissals resulted in a number of lawsuits. In 1994 and 1995, six JR Group companies brought lawsuits in the Tokyo District Court over the 1987 Labor Relations Commission ruling that the JR group was responsible for the non-hiring and that unfair labor practices had been committed. On May 28, 1998, rulings were handed down. In the case bought by the Honshu carriers, presiding Judge Saburo Takase said that while JR companies were responsible for selecting personnel to start up their new entities, they were not obligated to compensate unhired JNR workers. He said that if there were unfair labor practices were committed in choosing employees, the JR companies are responsible, but the labor commission should only order the firms to repeat their employment process, not to rehire the workers. He said an order to rehire unionists was illegal.\n\nPresiding Judge Yasushige Hagio, ruling on the Hokkaido and Kyushu carriers' case, said that the JR Group companies were not responsible for personnel decisions following the JNR privatization, so he nullified the commission's order.\n\nThe Central Labor Relations Commission appealed and in December 2003, the Supreme Court rejected an appeal requesting that the former JNR employees in the labor unions that opposed the JNR privatization in 1987 be hired by the private Japan Railway companies that succeeded JNR.\n\nThe first petty bench of the Supreme Court gave a split decision. Presiding Justice Takehisa Fukazawa and Justice Niro Shimada said the JR firms bear this responsibility as employers and said the case should be sent back to the Tokyo High Court. However, the three other justices disagreed and stated that JR bore no responsibility for any unfair labor practices that may have been committed.\n\nIn another case, of 283 plaintiffs in September 2005, the Tokyo District Court ruled that JNR had discriminated against union employees when recruiting for positions at the new JR companies.\nIt was the first time a court had recognized unfair labor practices by the now-defunct JNR or its affiliates and ordered compensation over the JR firms' refusal to hire JNR employees. Presiding judge Koichi Nanba ruled that the Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency should pay ¥5 million to each of the plaintiffs. Despite ruling that they had been discriminated against, he didn't order their re-hiring, stating that \"There were reasonable causes for dismissal.\"\n\nOn December 5, 2006, at the Tokyo District Court, more than 500 Kokuro members, the union itself, and relatives of workers who died since the privatization planned to launch a 30 million yen damages lawsuit over the refusal to rehire the workers, making a total of 540 plaintiffs suing the Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency. Kokuro sought compensation for the loss of union fees incurred when the JR companies did not hire the union members, but this was intended as leverage to encourage political parties to intervene and for the agency to settle the labor dispute. A Kokuro official stated: \"This suit is for securing an option to solve problems through the court before the statute of limitations expires. We will consider dropping the suit when a political solution becomes feasible.\"\n\nOn March 13, 2008, the Tokyo District Court turned down a case filed by 32 union members and three relatives of a deceased member which had been filed in November 2004. Judge Shigeru Nakanishi said the statute of limitations had expired, regardless of whether or not unfair labor practices had occurred. He did not state an opinion on whether or not such discrimination had occurred.\n\nIn 2000, the ruling political bloc at the time (the Liberal Democratic Party, New Komeito, and the now-defunct New Conservative Party suggested a compromise where the lawsuits would be dropped in return for urging the JR groups to rehire the workers in return for Kokuro acknowledging that JR had no responsibility for originally failing to employ them. The opposition Social Democratic Party functioned as an intermediary between the union and the ruling parties. the Social Democratic Party is affiliated to the National Trade Union Council (Zenrokyo), the trade union confederation that Kokuro belongs to. In January 2001, Kokuro voted to accept the plan, but there were various factions within the union with different viewpoints. In 2002, with the ruling block threatening to withdraw the deal, Kokuro voted again to withdraw their lawsuits.\n\nIn November 2002, the three ruling parties withdrew from the agreement. Kokuro had agreed to it but did not expel members who refused to accept it and had launched a separate lawsuit against the JNR Settlement Corporation in January 2002.\n\nKokuro and Zendoro bought the case to the International Labour Organization, claiming anti-union discrimination and that this violated the right to organize as stipulated in the ILO Convention No. 98 concerning freedom of association. They brought the case to the ILO Committee on the Freedom of Association for settlement. The committee wrote a report which was then approved by the ILO's ruling body. The ILO's view was that the dismissed workers \"were not hired by the JR companies not because of discrimination against the labor unions but because their members had refused wide-area transfers to other regions.\"\n\nAfter the 2009 election victory of the Democratic Party of Japan, the coalition of three ruling parties; the Democratic Party of Japan, Social Democratic Party and Kokumin Shinto plus the opposition party New Komeito drafted a settlement package. In the settlement plan the former JR workers were to receive ¥29.5 million each.\n\nAn attached document described the dismissal of the 1047 former JNR workers as \"an unfair labor practice on an unprecedented scale.\" The proposed settlement package included a ¥28 billion financial component, and a request for the JR companies to hire around 230 former JNR workers aged up to 55.\n\nIn April 2010, then-transport minister Seiji Maehara, announced that he and then-deputy prime minister Naoto Kan and Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirofumi Hirano finalized plans for a settlement. The JR group companies were reluctant to rehire the workers, so that part of the settlement was abandoned. The political parties had proposed ¥24 million yen per worker, the government had proposed ¥20 million. The figure was settled at ¥22 million. The total settlement amount was reduced to ¥20 billion, to be divided into payments of ¥22 million each for 910 households of \"reconciliation money,\" making a total of ¥14.2 billion. Kokuro and other bodies were to receive ¥5.8 billion to be used to help the former workers find work.\n\n23 years after the original privatization, on June 28, 2010, the Supreme Court settled the dispute between the workers and the Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency. The agency said it would pay 20 billion yen, approximately 22 million yen per worker, to 904 plaintiffs. However, as the workers were not reinstated, it was not a full settlement.\n\nPursuant to Paragraph 1 of the settlement, Kokuro and Kenkoro (Zendoro) dropped all its lawsuits, including unfair labor practice litigation not directly related to the firing of the 1,047 workers. Pursuant to Paragraph 2 of the settlement, Kokuro and Kenkoro did not file any unfair labor practice lawsuit thereafter.\n\nDoro-Chiba is a union which in 1979 split off from Doro (the National Railway Motor Power Union). Doro merged with Tetsuro, a company union which had split off from Kokuro decades ago, and formed JR-Soren (Japan Confederation of Railway Workers' Unions --JRU) and actively promoted the privatization of JNR. Doro-Chiba had nine members who were not employed by JR after the privatization in 1987 and the union refused to accept the 2010 settlement. The union vowed to continue the struggle against the dismissals and against the privatization of JNR.\n"}
{"id": "817286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817286", "title": "Kansas City preventive patrol experiment", "text": "Kansas City preventive patrol experiment\n\nThe Kansas City preventive patrol experiment was a landmark experiment carried out between 1972 and 1973 by the Kansas City Police Department of Kansas City, Missouri. It was evaluated by the Police Foundation. It was designed to test the assumption that the presence (or potential presence) of police officers in marked cars reduced the likelihood of a crime being committed. It was the first study to demonstrate that research into the effectiveness of different policing styles could be carried out responsibly and safely.\n\nThe experiment was designed to answer the following questions:\n\nThe design took three different police beats in Kansas City, and varied patrol routine in them. The first group received no routine patrols, instead the police responded only to calls from residents. The second group had the normal level of patrols, while the third had two to three times as many patrols.\n\nThe experiment had to be stopped and restarted three times because some patrol officers believed the absence of patrols would endanger citizens. (Kelling et al. 1974).\n\nThis was upheld for 12 months, from 1 October 1972 to 30 September 1973. \n\nVictim surveys, reported crime rates, arrest data, a survey of local businesses, attitudinal surveys, and trained observers who monitored police-citizen interaction were used to gather data. These were taken before the start of the experiment (September 1972), and after (October 1973), giving 'before' and 'after' conditions for comparison.\n\n\nThe Kansas City Police Department drew the conclusion that routine preventive patrol in marked police cars has little value in preventing crime or making citizens feel safe and that resources normally allocated to these activities could safely be allocated elsewhere.\n\nA significant factor realised was that crime prevention was more highly dependent on the willingness of citizens to report suspicious and/or criminal behaviour to Police than the levels or types of patrol.\n\n"}
{"id": "26654243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26654243", "title": "Knowledge commons", "text": "Knowledge commons\n\nThe term \"knowledge commons\" refers to information, data, and content that is collectively owned and managed by a community of users, particularly over the Internet. What distinguishes a knowledge commons from a commons of shared physical resources is that digital resources are non-subtractible; that is, multiple users can access the same digital resources with no effect on their quantity or quality.\n\nThe term 'commons' is derived from the medieval economic system \"the commons\". Today, the knowledge commons act as a frame of reference for a number of domains, including Open Educational resources such as the MIT OpenCourseware, free digital media such as Wikipedia, Creative commons–licensed art, open-source research, and open scientific collections such as the Public Library of Science or the Science Commons, Free Software and Open Design. According to research by Charlotte Hess and Elinor Ostrom, the conceptual background of the knowledge commons encompasses two intellectual histories: first, a European tradition of battling the enclosure of the \"intangible commons of the mind\", threatened by expanding intellectual property rights and privatization of knowledge. Second, a tradition rooted in the United States, which sees the knowledge commons as a shared space allowing for free speech and democratic practices, and which is in the tradition of the town commons movement and commons-based production of scholarly work, open science, open libraries, and collective action.\n\nThe production of works in the knowledge commons is often driven by collective intelligence respectively the wisdom of crowds and is related to knowledge communism as it was defined by Robert K. Merton, according to whom scientists give up intellectual property rights in exchange for recognition and esteem.\n\nFerenc Gyuris argues, that it is important to distinguish \"information\" from \"knowledge\" in defining the term \"knowledge commons\". He argues that \"knowledge as a shared resource\" requires that both information must become accessible and potential recipients must become able and willing to internalize it as 'knowledge'. \"Therefore, knowledge cannot become a shared resource without a complex set of institutions and practices that give the opportunity to potential recipients to gain the necessary abilities and willingness\".\n\nA main principle of the knowledge commons is that the traditional \"copyright\" is being replaced by \"copyleft\". Copyleft licenses grant licensees all necessary rights such as right to study, use, change and redistribute—under the condition that all future works building on the license are again kept in the commons.\nThe most popular applications of the 'copyleft' principle are the GNU Software Licenses (GPL, LGPL and GFDL by Free Software Foundation) and the share-alike licenses under creative commons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21985926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21985926", "title": "Legal financing", "text": "Legal financing\n\nLegal financing (also known as litigation financing, professional funding, settlement funding, third-party funding, legal funding, lawsuit loans and, in England and Wales, litigation funding) is the mechanism or process through which litigants (and even law firms) can finance their litigation or other legal costs through a third party funding company.\n\nSimilar to legal defense funds, legal financing companies provide money for lawsuits but are more often used by those without strong financial resources. Furthermore, legal financing is more likely to be used by plaintiffs, whereas legal defense funds are more likely to be used by defendants. Money obtained from legal financing companies can be used for any purpose, whether for litigation or for personal matters. On the other hand, money obtained through legal defense funds are solely used to fund litigation and legal costs.\n\nLegal financing companies provide a nonrecourse cash advance to litigants in exchange for a percentage share of the judgment or settlement. Despite some superficial similarity to an unsecured loan with a traditional lender, legal financing operates differently from a loan. Litigation funding is generally \"not\" considered a loan, but rather as a form of an asset purchase or venture capital. Legal funding advances are not debt and are not reported to the credit bureaus, so a litigant's credit ratings will not be affected by a litigant obtains a legal funding advance.\n\nLegal financing companies normally provide money in the form of a lump sum payment, and generally, no specific account is established for the litigant. If the case proceeds to trial and the litigant loses, the third party funding company receives nothing and loses the money they have invested in the case. In other words, if the litigant loses, he does not have to repay the money. In addition, litigants generally do not have to pay monthly fees after obtaining legal financing. Instead, no payments of any kind are made until the case settles or judgment is obtained, which could occur months or years after legal funding is received. Accordingly, to qualify for funding with a legal financing company, a litigant's case must have sufficient merit that the company deems its investment in the case to be worth the risk.\n\nIn tort litigation, legal financing is most commonly sought in personal injury cases, but may also be sought for commercial disputes, civil rights cases, and workers' compensation cases.\n\nWhile Third Party Litigation Funding is not a new concept, it is relatively new to the United States and has its roots in the old English principles of champerty and maintenance. Some U.S. states still prohibit or materially limit champerty and other allow it with some restrictions.\n\nLittle financial assistance is available from traditional sources to help injured plaintiffs cover the cost of litigation or pay their personal expenses while a case remains pending. Plaintiffs may turn to credit cards and personal loans to cover litigation fees, attorneys' fees, court filings, personal finances, and living expense shortfalls while they wait for litigation to be resolved. The obligation to repay that debt is not affected by the outcome of the plaintiff's lawsuit.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, and throughout the United States, attorney rules of ethics preclude an attorney from advancing money in the form of loans to their clients.\n\nThe introduction of legal financing provides qualified plaintiffs with a means of paying the cost of litigation and their personal expenses, without having to resort to traditional borrowing.\n\nLegal funding companies do not provide legal advice to applicants, nor do they provide referrals to attorneys. Thus, to qualify for legal financing a plaintiff must have already hired an attorney. To apply for legal financing, the plaintiff must complete an application form and provide supporting documents.\n\nAs legal financing companies only recover their investment if the plaintiff recovers money from the funded lawsuit, the merits of the plaintiff's case must be strong, meaning that the plaintiff has a strong argument that the defendant is liable for the damages claimed in the lawsuit. The defendant in the case (the person or company being sued) must also have the ability to pay a judgment, whether by virtue of its own financial strength or through insurance coverage. The injured party's attorney must also agree to the legal financing and generally must to sign an agreement consenting to the legal financing.\n\nAdditional qualification or approval factors may include the total amount of damages sought, a sufficient potential margin of recovery to justify the investment, the background of the applicant, and laws of the applicant's place of residence. Some legal financing companies limit their investment to specific types of lawsuits, such as a personal injury claim or commercial litigation.\n\nLawsuits are expensive and may progress slowly, over a period of many months or years. During that time, many plaintiffs may feel considerable financial pressure, and may need money to pay the costs of litigation, as well as the costs of supporting themselves. When obtained during the course of tort litigation, legal financing may help a plaintiff who has immediate needs, such as medical care, and cannot afford to wait until the litigation concludes to obtain money. A severely injured plaintiff might have significant personal expenses due to disability or loss of income and may face significant personal and medical debt, and as a result may feel considerable pressure to enter into an early settlement. A defendant may recognize a plaintiff's financial need and offer a low settlement in anticipation that the plaintiff will not be able to afford continued litigation.\n\nThe desperate situation of plaintiffs is reflected in a finding by the American Legal Finance Association, an industry group for legal financing companies, that over 62% of funds provided to plaintiffs are used to stop a foreclosure or an eviction action.\n\nOne concern about litigation funding is that it is costly to the plaintiff, and may take a very large chunk out of plaintiff's eventual settlement or verdict. After paying attorney fees and the amount owed to the legal financing company, the plaintiff may receive little or no additional money beyond any amount received from the advance.\n\nThere is some concern that, if widely adopted, litigation finance could prolong litigation and reduce the frequency of settlements of civil lawsuits. A study of civil lawsuits published in the Journal of Empirical Legal Studies found that between 80% and 92% of cases settle. The study found that most plaintiffs who decided to pass up a settlement offer and proceed to trial ended up recovering less money than if they had accepted the settlement offer.\n\nThe legal financing industry has come under fire from critics for actual and potential legal and ethical violations. For example, some companies have been found to violate state usury laws (laws against unreasonably high interest rates), champerty laws (laws prohibiting third parties from furthering a lawsuit for an interest in the recovery), or to require action by the applicant's lawyer that might be unethical under state rules of professional conduct.\n\nA major criticism of litigation funding is that its cost is disproportionate to the risk accepted by litigation finance companies. As lenders thoroughly evaluate claims before they agree to provide financing, they have a very high likelihood of recovering their fee at the conclusion of the plaintiff's case, and further limit potential losses by providing financing in amounts that are relatively small as compared to the plaintiff's anticipated recovery.\n\nIn June 2011, the New York City Bar Association addressed some of the ethical issues raised by lawsuit financing in an ethics opinion about third-party non-recourse legal funding. It concluded that with due care a lawyer could help a client obtain legal financing, and that non-recourse litigation financing “provides to some claimants a valuable means for paying the costs of pursuing a legal claim, or even sustaining basic living expenses until a settlement or judgment is obtained.” Many lawyers advise clients to pursue legal financing only as a last resort, when other forms of financing are not available.\n\nLitigation funding has been permitted in England and Wales since 1967 (and in insolvency matters since the late nineteenth century). However, the recent years have seen its growing acceptance as part of the litigation landscape.\n\nIn 2005, in the case of \"Arkin v Borchard Lines Ltd & Others\", the English Court of Appeal made it clear that litigation funding is a legitimate method of financing litigation. In January 2010, Chapter 11 of the \"Jackson Review of Civil Litigation Costs\" was published, effectively providing judicial endorsement to litigation funding.\n\nIn November 2011, a \"Code of Conduct for Litigation Funders\" was launched, which sets out the standards of best practice and behaviour for litigation funders in England and Wales. The Code of Conduct provides transparency to claimants and their solicitors. It requires litigation funders to provide satisfactory answers to certain key questions before entering into relationships with claimants. Under the Code, litigation funders are required to give assurances to claimants that, among other things, the litigation funder will not try to take control of the litigation, the litigation funder has the money to pay for the costs of the funded litigation and the litigation funder will not terminate funding absent a material adverse development. The Code has been approved by Lord Justice Jackson and commended by the Chair of the Civil Justice Council, Lord Neuberger of Abbotsbury, the President of the Supreme Court.\n\nThe regulatory body responsible for litigation funding and ensuring compliance with the Code is the Association of Litigation Funders (ALF). The Board of Directors of ALF comprises representatives from Calunius, Woodsford and Harbour Litigation Funding. The members of ALF have adopted the Code and undertake to comply at all times with it.\n\nLitigation funding is generally unregulated in South Africa, but it appears that it has quietly become part of the South African legal landscape, getting little to no resistance in the face of what used to be portrayed as \"contra bonos mores champertous\" agreements, which are, by definition, illegal.\n\nA \"pactum de quota litis\" is defined as “an agreement to share the proceeds of one or more lawsuits” and it is the duty of the court to ascertain, of its own motion, the lawfulness of such agreement as it cannot lend its assistance to the execution of agreements and transactions which are contrary to law. An initial distinction between an acceptable and an objectionable \"pactum de quota litis\" was formulated in \"Hugo & Möller N.O. v Transvaal Loan, Finance and Mortgage Co\", 1894 (1) OR 336. The Court held that a fair agreement to provide the necessary funds to enable an action to be proceeded with, in consideration for which the person lending the money is to receive an interest in the property sought to be recovered, must not be considered per se to be \"contra bonos mores\". The court was concerned about potential abuses for such agreements, such using them for purposes of gambling with litigation cases.\n\nSeveral cases have provided further guidelines for such litigation financing agreements. In Hadleigh Private Hospital (Pty) Ltd t/a Rand Clinic v Soller & Manning Attorneys and Others 2001 (4) SA 360 (W), the Court affirmed that an agreement to share the proceeds of one or more lawsuits is not necessarily unlawful and must indeed be considered acceptable when a litigant is not in a financial position to fund his litigation completely. In another case, the South Africa Supreme Court of Appeal held, in \"PriceWaterHouse Coopers Inc and Others v National Potato Co-operative Ltd\", 2004 (6) SA 66 (SCA), that the \"although the number of reported cases concerned with champertous agreements diminished, courts have still adhered to the view that generally they are unlawful and that litigation pursuant to such agreements should not be entertained\". However, the Supreme Court sought to clarify any disagreements and took a different route.\n\nThe Supreme Court ruled that:\n\nLegal financing is a fairly recent phenomenon in the United States, beginning in or around 1997. Litigation funding is available in most U.S. jurisdictions. Litigation funding is most commonly sought in personal injury cases, but may also be sought for commercial disputes, civil rights cases, and workers' compensation cases. The amount of money that plaintiffs receive through legal financing varies widely, but often is around 10 to 15 percent of the expected value of judgment or settlement of their lawsuit. Some companies allow individuals to request additional funding at a later date. The amount of money available depends on the policies of the financing company and the characteristics of the plaintiff's lawsuit.\n\nOne major division in litigation finance is between consumer and commercial financing companies. While consumer financing generally consists of small advances between $500 and $2000 directly for individual plaintiffs, commercial financing for companies to pursue legal claims generally is dedicated towards payment of litigation costs. The largest legal financing companies in the space are commercial, including public companies.\n\nLitigation funders generally evaluate cases based on legal merit, amount of damages, and financial viability of the defendant. Many funders also specialize in specific areas of litigation or have restrictions on funding size and funding structure.\n\nThe American Legal Financing Association (ALFA) is a trade association that represents consumer legal financing companies. ALFA's main goals are to establish voluntary standards for the legal funding industry and to serve as the liaison with the public, government officials, and the media. While ALFA is a non-profit organization, most legal funding companies are for-profit organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57626887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57626887", "title": "Legitimacy Act, 1931", "text": "Legitimacy Act, 1931\n\nThe Legitimacy Act 1931 was an Act of the Oireachtas. The purpose of the Legitimacy Act 1931 was to amend the law relating to children born out of wedlock.\n\nThe fundamental principle of the Legitimacy Act 1931 is exposed in article 1(1): \n\"\"Subject to the provisions of this section where the parents of an illegitimate person marry or have married one another, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, the marriage shall, if the father of the illegitimate person was or is at the date of the marriage domiciled in Saorstát Eireann, render that person, if living, legitimate from the commencement of this Act, or from the date of the marriage, whichever is the later.\".\"\nThe Act allowed children to be legitimised by the subsequent marriage of their parents, provided that neither parent had been married to a third party at the time of the birth or the ten months prior. In those circumstances, the legitimised birth was re-entered in the birth indexes for that year (sometimes many years after the original birth). The original entry would be annotated to refer to the new entry. The Act was similar in purpose to the Legitimacy Act 1926 passed by Westminster.\n\nThe Act was sponsored by Frank Fahy a Fianna Fáil TD from Galway and Patrick Little, Fianna Fáil TD for Waterford. \n"}
{"id": "283083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283083", "title": "Limited liability company", "text": "Limited liability company\n\nA limited liability company (LLC) is the US-specific form of a private limited company. It is a business structure that can combine the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. An LLC is not a corporation in and of itself; it is a legal form of a company that provides limited liability to its owners in many jurisdictions. LLCs are well-known for the flexibility that they provide to business owners; depending on the situation, an LLC may elect to use corporate tax rules instead of being treated as a partnership, and, under certain circumstances, LLCs may be organized as not-for-profit. In certain U.S. states (for example, Texas), businesses that provide professional services requiring a state professional license, such as legal or medical services, may not be allowed to form an LLC but may be required to form a similar entity called a professional limited liability company (PLLC).\n\nA limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC is a type of unincorporated association distinct from a corporation. The primary characteristic an LLC shares with a corporation is limited liability, and the primary characteristic it shares with a partnership is the availability of pass-through income taxation. It is often more flexible than a corporation, and it is well-suited for companies with a single owner.\n\nAlthough LLCs and corporations both possess some analogous features, the basic terminology commonly associated with each type of legal entity, at least within the United States, is sometimes different. When an LLC is formed, it is said to be \"organized,” not \"incorporated\" or \"chartered,” and its founding document is likewise known as its \"articles of organization,\" instead of its \"articles of incorporation\" or its \"corporate charter.” Internal operations of an LLC are further governed by its \"operating agreement,\" rather than its \"bylaws.\" The owner of beneficial rights in an LLC is known as a \"member,\" rather than a \"shareholder.” Additionally, ownership in an LLC is represented by a \"membership interest\" or an \"LLC interest\" (sometimes measured in \"membership units\" or just \"units\" and at other times simply stated only as percentages), rather than represented by \"shares of stock\" or just \"shares\" (with ownership measured by the number of shares held by each shareholder). Similarly, when issued in physical rather than electronic form, a document evidencing ownership rights in an LLC is called a \"membership certificate\" rather than a \"stock certificate\".\n\nIn the absence of express statutory guidance, most American courts have held that LLC members are subject to the same common law alter ego piercing theories as corporate shareholders. However, it is more difficult to pierce the LLC veil because LLCs do not have many formalities to maintain. As long as the LLC and the members do not commingle funds, it is difficult to pierce the LLC veil. Membership interests in LLCs and partnership interests are also afforded a significant level of protection through the charging order mechanism. The charging order limits the creditor of a debtor-partner or a debtor-member to the debtor's share of distributions, without conferring on the creditor any voting or management rights.\n\nLimited liability company members may, in certain circumstances, also incur a personal liability in cases where distributions to members render the LLC insolvent.\n\nThe first state to enact a law authorizing limited liability companies was Wyoming in 1977. The form did not become immediately popular, in part because of uncertainties in tax treatment by the Internal Revenue Service. After an IRS ruling in 1988 that Wyoming LLCs could be taxed as partnerships, other states began enacting LLC statutes. By 1996, all 50 states had LLC statutes.\n\nLLCs are subject to fewer regulations than traditional corporations, and thus may allow members to create a more flexible management structure than is possible with other corporate forms. As long as it remains within the confines of state law, the operating agreement is responsible for the flexibility the members of the LLC have in deciding how their LLC will be governed. State statutes typically provide automatic or \"default\" rules for how an LLC will be governed unless the operating agreement provides otherwise.\n\nThe limited liability company (\"LLC\") has grown to become one of the most prevalent business forms in the United States. Even the use of a single member LLC affords greater protection for the assets of the member, as compared to operating as an unincorporated entity.\n\nEffective August 1, 2013, the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act provides that the managers and controlling members of a limited liability company owe fiduciary duties of care and loyalty to the limited liability company and its members. Under the amendment (prompted by the Delaware Supreme Court's decision in \"Gatz Properties, LLC v. Auriga Capital Corp\"), parties to an LLC remain free to expand, restrict, or eliminate fiduciary duties in their LLC agreements (subject to the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).\n\nUnder 6 Del. C. Section 18-101(7), a Delaware LLC operating agreement can be written, oral or implied. It sets forth member capital contributions, ownership percentages, and management structure. Like a prenuptial agreement, an operating agreement can avoid future disputes between members by addressing buy-out rights, valuation formulas, and transfer restrictions. The written LLC operating agreement should be signed by all of its members.\n\nFor U.S. federal income tax purposes, an LLC is treated by default as a pass-through entity. If there is only one member in the company, the LLC is treated as a \"disregarded entity\" for tax purposes (unless another tax status is elected), and an individual owner would report the LLC's income or loss on Schedule C of his or her individual tax return. Thus, income from the LLC is taxed at the individual tax rates. The default tax status for LLCs with multiple members is as a partnership, which is required to report income and loss on IRS Form 1065. Under partnership tax treatment, each member of the LLC, as is the case for all partners of a partnership, annually receives a Form K-1 reporting the member's distributive share of the LLC's income or loss that is then reported on the member's individual income tax return. On the other hand, income from corporations is taxed twice: once at the corporate entity level and again when distributed to shareholders. Thus, more tax savings often result if a business formed as an LLC rather than a corporation.\n\nAn LLC with either single or multiple members may elect to be taxed as a corporation through the filing of IRS Form 8832. After electing corporate tax status, an LLC may further elect to be treated as a regular C corporation (taxation of the entity's income prior to any dividends or distributions to the members and then taxation of the dividends or distributions once received as income by the members) or as an S corporation (entity level income and loss passes through to the members). Some commentators have recommended an LLC taxed as a S-corporation as the best possible small business structure. It combines the simplicity and flexibility of an LLC with the tax benefits of an S-corporation (self-employment tax savings).\n\n\nAlthough there is no statutory requirement for an operating agreement in most jurisdictions, members of a multiple member LLC who operate without one may encounter problems. Unlike state laws regarding stock corporations, which are very well developed and provide for a variety of governance and protective provisions for the corporation and its shareholders, most states do not dictate detailed governance and protective provisions for the members of a limited liability company. Thus, in the absence of such statutory provisions, the members of an LLC must establish governance and protective provisions pursuant to an operating agreement or similar governing document.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1673058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1673058", "title": "March Constitution (Poland)", "text": "March Constitution (Poland)\n\nThe Second Polish Republic adopted the March Constitution on 17 March 1921, after ousting the occupation of the German/Prussian forces in the 1918 Greater Poland Uprising, and avoiding conquest by the Soviets in the 1920 Polish-Soviet War. The Constitution, based on the French one, was regarded as very democratic. Among others, it expressly ruled out discrimination on racial or religious grounds. It also abolished all royal titles and state privileges, and banned the use of blazons.\n\nIt was partially adjusted by the 1926 August Novelization, and superseded by the Polish Constitution of 1935 (April Constitution).\n\n"}
{"id": "44674510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44674510", "title": "March law (Anglo-Scottish border)", "text": "March law (Anglo-Scottish border)\n\nMarch law (Anglo-Scottish border) (or Marcher law, or laws and customs of the marches) was a system of customary international law dealing with cross-border dispute settlement, operating during the medieval and early-modern periods in the area of the Anglo-Scottish border or Anglo-Scottish marches - the word \"march\" being the Old English form of the Old French word \"marche\" meaning \"boundary\" (the Anglo-Welsh border and the Anglo-Irish marches had their own versions of \"the Law of the Marches\"). They were \" essentially a set of regulations for the prosecution of offences committed by the inhabitants of one country inside the territory of the other, and for the recovery of property stolen or lent across their common border.\"\n\nThe laws were administered (from the late thirteenth-century onwards) by the Wardens of the Marches in times of war between England and Scotland, and by \"Conservators of the truce\" in times of peace, although, given that periods of truce were invariably subject to cross-border raiding, piracy and ransom-taking, the two roles were often amalgamated into that of \"warden-conservator\". The work of the courts was done at periodic gatherings of plaintiffs and defendants, along with the designated warden-conservators and the jurors (\"recognitors\") from both England and Scotland, at a pre-decided place either side of the border line on what were called \"days of march\" (or \"days of truce\").\nIn England, March law ran side-by-side with English Common law, often in an unclear way (and with the latter sometimes being subverted by the Wardens to their own ends). As well as common law, March Law had elements of Equity and Military law in its make-up.\n\nMarch law was usually most in force during times of truce, as, during times of war with the Scots, the English Crown, claiming sovereignty over Scottish territory, would refuse to recognise a separate judicial entity in Scotland.\n\nFrom the First War of Scottish Independence to 1603 and the Union of the Crowns, the borderlands of England and Scotland suffered from armed raids and open warfare. The warfare was driven by the attempts of the English crown to claim suzerainty over Scotland and the consequent resistance of the Scottish crown. In addition, the Scottish Crown would often support the French in the latter's wars with England (the \"Auld alliance\"). The raiding was due to armed bands of local magnates, lairds or clan chiefs and their retainers (the Border Reivers) on both sides of the Anglo-Scottish border (including sometimes the Wardens' own men) crossing the border to take captives and/or animals and wreak damage on property.\n\nBecause of the threat of war and/or raiding, it simply was not worth local people raising crops or animals with any expectation of keeping hold of them : the result was that clans on both sides of the border, especially in the more remote regions, became mobile or semipermanent residents, stealing others' crops and animals in order to feed themselves.\n\nThe lack of effective Royal landholding in the region, plus the difficulties in getting to the remote regions concerned, meant that peacekeeping power was devolved to the great northern families who were themselves often in conflict with the Crown and with each other. Compensation paid to victims was defrayed out of the magnates' own pockets, so this meant that they had an interest in using raiding to claw back their expenses.\n\nThe result was devastation for local people on either side of the border for three hundred years. Raids and retaliatory raiding took place regularly even during times of formal truce between the two countries. Access to justice for victims, especially as regards compensation, was virtually impossible via the normal legal methods. Felons simply crossed the border to escape capture and to evade the relevant legal system that would have applied to the local inhabitants. There was no compensation or restitution available either under existing law. Hence the need for an alternative - the March law.\n\nThe origins of March law are obscure and have been the subject of some dispute. The (first) codification of 1249, (when twelve knights, six each from England and Scotland, convened on the border to write down \"the laws and customs of the march\" at the instigation of Henry III of England and Alexander II of Scotland) seems to refer to practices dating back some time. Some historians have suggested pre-Norman origins, others have said that there is a mixture of pre-Norman and post-Norman elements in the code.\n\nThe 1249 text has articles concerning: the proclaiming of the alleged offence on both sides of the border; the use of pledges to ensure that the plaintiffs and defendants turned up at the day of march; the use of jurors from both kingdoms; the payment of compensation to victims (such as \"manbote\" as regards murder); the method of proof in contested disputes (usually judicial duel or \"wager of battle\", known as \" handwarcelle\"); and the guarantee of sanctuary to those who confessed. Eleven of the thirteen clauses were concerned with apprehending offenders; the types of offences were not listed, but were probably to do with acts against the person and property.\n\nThe border disputes of the thirteenth-century (before the setting-up of the Wardenial system) were usually settled, if the plaintiffs decided against using common law, by an enquiry made by the sheriff. The use of English common law or Chancery writs was a competing system of justice in the borders.\n\nWith the coming to power of Edward I of England and the almost continuous warfare due to the Scottish Wars of Independence, March law was effectively put into abeyance until the middle of the fourteenth-century. The beginning of the First War of Scottish Independence in 1296 saw the establishment of the system of Wardens and Conservators mentioned above. At first, the judicial capacity of the Wardens was restricted to matters of military import (e.g.: arresting those attempting to evade military service). However, the 1320s saw the Conservators, in times of peace, take on the judicial role that had previously belonged to the sheriffs.\n\nAfter 1346, when the marches region was divided into East and West marches, and when Edward III of England wanted to keep the peace on the Scottish border while he was involved in France, the Wardens were given the Conservators' judicial functions in addition to their own military ones. The Wardens' courts operated in tandem with common law ones, and were held in addition to those at the days of truce.\n\nEdward III made further attempts to involve the Crown with border law, and to regularise its machinery. He appointed Thomas de Beauchamp, 11th Earl of Warwick to join the Wardens as their supervisor; the 1367 commission included the requirement to have a quorum (of two) on the judicial bench; days of march were agreed on in advance; felons were required to be presented by English and Scottish juries before being sent before the Warden and a mixed tribunal (assuming not yet proven guilty); the guilty had to make restitution within fifteen days (if they had no goods to hand over and no lord to vouch for them, they were set to ransom); sheriffs were told to assist the Wardens in capturing suspects who had taken flight; for the first time, lesser nobility were brought into the system as conservators.\n\nRichard II's reign saw a failed attempt by the English Crown to lessen the power of the northern magnates and to manipulate their hold on the Wardenships (the Wardens becoming paid officers by the end of the 1380s) and it also saw intensive cross-border raiding and destruction. However, the use of border law was strengthened, perhaps because the region fell more closely under the influence of the Wardens (particularly the Percies and Nevilles in England and the Douglas family in Scotland). For example, the problem of felons fleeing to the various liberties where the King's writ did not run, was partially solved by making the lord of one of the largest of them (the Bishop of Durham who held the Liberty of Durham) Warden of the East March. Distraining ('poinding') was abolished in 1386 as being unworkable, and responsibility for compensation was given to the Wardens alone.\n\nThe indenture relating to the truce of 1386 between the English and Scots clarified the types of offences against truces that would be subject to border law. These included: homicide, the carrying off of persons, ransom-taking, the taking of castles, fortresses and walled-towns, armed and mounted raids, cattle reiving (theft). In 1397, it was agreed that written bills of complaint would be submitted by plaintiffs before being forwarded to the conservators of both countries.\n\nBy the end of the fourteenth-century, it has been argued, March law \"had achieved the status of a system of law, complete with a hallowed and proven tradition, a body of written record, and a legitimate purpose\" and \"both complemented and supplemented the working of English common law.\"\n\nHowever, the reigns of Henry IV of England and Henry V of England saw the revival of Edward I's claim over Scotland, and March law went into abeyance once more. In addition, the revolts of the Percies against the Crown, as well as feuds amongst the border Wardens, meant that border law was not championed, despite the pleas made by John of Lancaster, 1st Duke of Bedford to his father to reinstate the days of march. The borderers suffered much deprivation due to cross-border raiding and recourse to the common law failed to bring any restitution, even when the justices were present to hold the assizes.\n\nThe reign of Henry VI of England saw a revival in March law as the regime sought to ally itself with Scotland. The truce of 1424 between the two countries resurrected the border tribunals. It sought to ban all reprisals; when these took place the offenders had to seek negotiation before the Wardens. Seeking redress for cross-border felonies would from now on be done in the Wardenial courts (as opposed to being dealt with at the tribunals set up at the days of march).\n\nThe indentures agreed in 1429, between the English commissioners sent as envoys to Scotland and the Scottish representatives, laid the foundation for fifteenth-century border law. The nature of the offences to be dealt with by border law was enumerated : \"homicide, mayhem ('manyheing'), assault, breach of safe conduct, theft of animals and chattels, the unlawful grazing and pasturing of animals and treason.\" Procedures were laid down : for example, amongst other provisions, suspects who had attacked people moving under safe conduct were to be handed over to the Wardens of the opposite realm for punishment; challenges made by defendants were to be submitted to a mixed English and Scottish jury; English jurors were to be nominated by the Scots and vice versa; a kind of extradition system was devised; days of march were to have clerks available to make written records of proceedings; goods stolen by raiders from the opposite side of the border but found on the victim's side were to be argued over at a future day of march. If the accused was found innocent, the person taken with the goods had to forfeit them and seek compensation for the loss at a day of march. A second indenture covered the method of dealing with losses due to piracy (as vexatious a problem as that of land-based theft). On land, it set up a mechanism of establishing 'proofs' using men versed in the law and local men of standing (from England and Scotland) as jurors who established the facts of cases before they were presented to the cross-border tribunals. The provisions in the 1429 indentures were the first real attempt to bring the Anglo-Scottish border into the ambit of international law, rather than relying on the ad hoc, intermittent activity of local magnates (the Warden-Conservators).\n\nIn 1451, arrangements were made to bring March law closer to English practice in the courts of Admiralty and Chivalry, in that Scottish plaintiffs could now take their cases to the Chancellor of England if English wrongdoers failed to turn up at the border tribunals. Other provisions led to the closer supervision of the Warden-Conservators by their respective governments.\n\nThe grip of families such as the Percies and Nevilles on the wardenships meant that the wardenial courts were busier than ever and competing with, and beating, the common law courts for business.\n\nEdward IV of England took advantage of the Scots' reluctance to support Henry VI to maintain the relatively favourable conditions in which March law had been operating. The provisions concerning March law laid out in the truce documents of 1464 were not much more than a reiteration of those of 1457 that Henry VI and James II had signed. Border law worked even with the coming-back into power (briefly) of Henry VI and the accession of James III of Scotland. In 1473, new procedures for dealing with cross-border homicides were instituted, along with a limit on the number of retainers that could be invited to the days of march (which often ended in riotous behaviour, in part due to the sheer numbers of opposing armed bands). The war between England and Scotland of 1480-84 put the border courts into abeyance once more, but Edward did not want them dismantled and his successor, Richard III of England, despite his enmity towards the Scots, revived them.\n\nIn 1484, Richard and James made an attempt (like many monarchs before them) to lessen the power of their 'over-mighty subjects' in the border lands by separating the wardenial work from that of the Conservators of the truce. The indenture signed between them made the Wardens strictly responsible for military operations, but the chasing down and prosecution of criminals in the borders remained in the hands of 'lesser' lords who had intimate knowledge of local affairs.\n\nDespite the animosity between Henry VII of England and James IV of Scotland, as well as the reluctance of the borderers themselves to agree to any truce between the two countries, March law continued to be used during the late fifteenth-century and early sixteenth-century. The Treaty of Ayton of 1497 had provisions for border law and its administration, particularly concerning the apprehending and safe keeping of march-related suspects. The treaty of peace and marriage of 1502 had clauses related to how the Wardens or their deputies should notify their opposite march officials within ten days of the arrest of suspects and of the charges against the latter. Those charged with homicide were to be taken to a day of march, and if convicted by a mixed English and Scottish panel, were to be handed over to the appropriate Warden for punishment (the death penalty). Limited raids of reprisals were allowed, both on land and at sea. The Crowns were to supervise the days of march rigorously and local men and civil lawyers would be appointed as conservators.\n\nOn the English side, Henry continued the practice of Richard III who had been awarded the wardenship of the West march when Duke of Gloucester, and, on becoming King, had retained the title of Warden, appointing a lieutenant or deputy-warden to do the work. From now on, Wardenships were to be held by royal princes and the lieutenants were to be drawn from the ranks of the lesser gentry (such as the Dacres). Done to save expense, as well as to reduce the power of the great northern magnates, this act saw the beginning of the end of the wardenship as it had been previously and the rise of the Council of the North to prominence cemented this development.\n\nMarch law continued under Henry's Tudor successors, only being abolished when the Union of the Crowns took place and James VI of England dealt a final blow to the Border reivers. The Bishop of Carlisle, William Nicolson, in his 1705 compilation of treaties called \"Leges Marchiarum\" that dealt with border law, included those of 1533 (Henry VIII of England); 1549 (Edward VI of England); 1553 (Mary I of England); 1563 and 1596 (both of Elizabeth I of England). Examples of the administration of March law during the sixteenth-century are given by Fraser.\n\nMarch law persisted in use on the Anglo-Scottish border, often against the wishes of English monarchs, (Edward I, for example, attempted to abolish it in favour of a uniform common law system), for several reasons.\n\nFirstly, although there was a northern assize circuit in operation in mediaeval times, \" as the kings of England quickly learned after 1237, the substantive and procedural rules of the common law were ill-equipped to cope with the problems attendant on the establishment of an artificial political boundary.\" In particular, it was impossible to use the common law procedures to obtain redress and reparation from those who gave alleigance to another country.\n\nIn addition, the constant warfare or threat of warfare, as well as the threat of armed raiders, meant that justices were reluctant to travel north to carry out their duties.\n\nAdditional factors for the longevity of a separate border law include: the possible existence of a discrete \"borderland\" province, where allegiances were not so much to the distant centres of government but were more local in nature (Strathclyde British, Norse, Angles, Scots, Anglo-Saxon and Normans had all contributed to the border area's mix of peoples); the fluidity of the border itself;\nthe lack of royal landholding in the borders leading to a reliance on local magnates, such as the Percies and Douglases, who were given quasi-judicial power as Warden-Conservators and who filled a judicial \"vacuum in the area.\n\nDespite these factors, however, March law was seen by the monarchs of the two countries as being supplemental to their respective domestic law, and not as a substitute for the latter. In England, the common law still operated alongside March law during the whole period.\n\nNeville makes a case for Scottish legal practice, (or Scottish custom at least), having more of an influence on the development of March law than English common law, claiming March law to be \"a system of law that drew heavily, if not primarily, on Scottish legal practices.\" \n\nFor example, the use of \"hand and horne\" (also known as \"hot and cold trod\" from the fifteenth-century on) in the pursuit of stolen goods, which was similar to the English hue and cry but permitting the crossing of borders, was a Scottish custom. Similarly, trial by combat remained a feature of Scottish, and border, practice when its use was declining in England, and the use of mixed (English and Scottish) juries \"approximated Scottish legal practice more closely than they did those of English juries.\" The use of pledges and sureties \n(\" inborch\" and \"utborch\"), reparation by a convicted person (\"assythment\"), and the use of distraint, known as \"poinding\" in the borders, were all Scottish features.\n\nThe indentures to the truce of 1398 stipulate that days of march (also known as \"days of truce\") should be held monthly. However, this was never adhered to, for a number of reasons: the hostility of the new Lancastrian regime put border law into abeyance soon after the indenture was signed, and the increase of violence amongst the border magnates (particularly between the Percy and Douglas families) disrupted the workings of the law. In later times, it may simply have been that mutual dislike between the opposing Wardens, or political tactics, was enough to cause extensive delays.\n\nIn terms of the places designated for the days of truce, most seem to have been, by the sixteenth- century, on the Scottish side of the border line. However, prior to that century, various favourite places were used and included Hadden Stank, Redden Burn, and Lochmaben in the Scottish West marches (plus Gretna, Dumfries and Lilliot Cross occasionally). In the Scottish middle march, Cocklaw near Roxburgh and Redeswire (Carter Bar) were used. In the English West march, the Sands in Carlisle, Rockcliffe and Kershopefoot were used and in the East, Norham, Coldstream, Wark, Ebchester and Berwick-upon-Tweed were mentioned in the records.\nOnce the place and date had been arranged, and the elaborate precautions taken at the coming together of the two sides, the bills of complaint against those of the opposite nation were presented to the Warden of one's own March. These were then passed on to the Warden of the opposite March and the accused were summoned and those to face punishment were presented. Bills were 'fouled' (a guilty verdict given), 'cleared' (an innocent verdict), or 'fouled conditionally' (an assumption of guilt because the accused had failed to turn up).\n\nThe truce period was supposed to last until the sunrise of the day following the end of the day, or days, of truce, although occasionally this did not happen (as with the taking by the English of Kinmont Willie at the breaking up of a truce day at Kershopefoot in 1596).\n\nOstensibly, March law was used as a dispute settlement procedure. However, the days of march and the use of March law also had a political and diplomatic dimension.\n\nAt a time when raiding across the border and fighting between armed bands threatened to escalate into open warfare between the two countries, the use of days of march and March law was useful in defusing the situation. In negotiatons between the two countries, truce-time infringements were discussed in an effort to smooth the rocky diplomatic road. This linking of national and local concerns at \"great days of march\" (when ambassadors might be present as well as the Warden-Conservators) was a deliberate ploy from Edward III's time onwards.\n\nIn addition, the irregular contact between the Wardens of both sides helped to maintain a \"back-channel\" between the two Crowns.\n\nMarch law did not stop raiding across the border between England and Scotland, but it did offer a safety valve that prevented such raids from breaking out into open warfare between the two countries. It was most effective when there was a truce between the realms and least effective during times of war. It was the only mechanism available that offered any chance of compensation for losses and the apprehending of cross-border fugitives.\n\nThe effectiveness of March law depended heavily on the energy and probity of the Warden-Conservators and their deputies (many of both of which were in league with the reivers). An example of the continual problem (almost the continual impossibility) of enforcing the law, is given in the preamble to the 1563 indenture, which bemoans the \"negligence of some officers, and lack of due execution of the laws and orders of the said marches of both the realms.\" Frustration and vendettas sometimes led to lynch law, outside the ambit of March law, an example being King James V's order to hang Johnnie Armstrong and his followers without trial in 1530.\nAlthough Neville lays emphasis on the mixed jury of English and Scottish, Fraser shows how, in the sixteenth-century at least, bills of complaint brought to the days of march could also be settled by the process of 'avower' (an 'avower' being a \"countryman of the accused's, acceptable as a referee to both plaintiff and defendant, who would swear to the truth of the case\"). The third method of determining the result was by the Warden's oath (where the Warden declared, on his honour, that the case was a valid one) All three methods were open to abuse : the avower might be in a feud with someone and not impartial; an accused could be quit of the charge merely by means of an oath of innocence; witnesses or the defendants sometimes simply did not turn up to the day of march (despite penalties for not doing so); the Wardens tried to maintain a balance of reparations between Scots and English, and this meant that lesser cases did not get heard; intimidation by the reivers' armed members present at the day of march must have been another factor.\n\nIt is difficult to know just how many bills of complaint were put forward to the Wardens as a proportion of the actual victims of raiding. An alternative was to instigate a \" hot trod\" (within six days of the offence taking place, otherwise it became a \"cold trod\"). This was a lawful posse of men who had the right under the trod rules to recover stolen property and to even cross the border in doing so. The trod was fraught with danger as those taking part were sometimes ambushed by the ones being pursued and the opportunities for double-dealing were large. A third alternative, to execute a reprisal raid on the original raiders, was equally dangerous. It may be, therefore, that those who used March law and the days of march were those who did not have sufficient allies and family members to carry out a trod or reprisal.\n\nAn indication, perhaps, of the ineffectiveness of March law was the addition of judicial powers during the sixteenth-century, when conditions seemed to have deteriorated markedly across the Marches. There were three types of ways in which judicial action was removed from the ambit of March law: armed judicial expeditions sanctioned by the monarch (usually the Scottish one), Warden-led reprisals officially sanctioned and carried out across the borderline ('Warden rodes'), and, thirdly, encouraging (or not discouraging) reivers to undertake their own reprisals (this was illegal in terms of March law, of course).\n\nGiven the kinship ties between the border 'clans' (across the border line as well as either side of it), which meant that the Wardens could often not trust their officers to carry out their orders; given the threats to potential witnesses; the use of blackmail (a word first heard of in the borderlands of England and Scotland); and given the collusion of some of the local magnates, lairds and Wardens, it is not surprising that March law \"could and did sometimes work surprisingly well, but it was at best a finger in the dyke.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "57766364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57766364", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Ghana)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Ghana)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice & Attorney General's Office of Ghana oversees legal matters that pertain to the State's executive power and drafts any legislation accordingly. The Attorney General is responsible for any civil cases and acts as the defendant on behalf of Ghana. The Ministry of Justice was founded in 1954 when an all-African Cabinet was formulated whereas the position of Attorney General originated in 1877. \n\nThe Attorney General is responsible for the Ministry of Justice.\n\nSee Attorney General of Ghana\n\n"}
{"id": "9565761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9565761", "title": "Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan", "text": "Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan\n\nMississippi University for Women v. Hogan, 458 U.S. 718 (1982), was a case decided 5-4 by the Supreme Court of the United States. The court held that the single-sex admissions policy of the Mississippi University for Women violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThe Mississippi University for Women was established in 1884 in Columbus, Mississippi and originally called the Industrial Institute and College, later changed to Mississippi State College for Women. It was the first state-supported women's college in the United States. In 1971, the School of Nursing was established, initially offering a two-year associate's degree, and later four-year baccalaureate degree and graduate degree programs.\n\nIn 1979, Joe Hogan, a registered nurse and nursing supervisor in Columbus who did not have a baccalaureate degree in nursing, applied for admission to the MUW School of Nursing's baccalaureate program. Although he was otherwise qualified, he was denied admission to the School of Nursing. School officials provided the option to audit courses in which he was interested, but he could not enroll for credit because he was male. Hogan could have attended classes and received credit in one of Mississippi's two public, coeducational programs leading to a Bachelor of Science in Nursing, but these were at the University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg (178 miles from Columbus) and the University of Mississippi in Oxford (114 miles from Columbus). Hogan filed an action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi, claiming the single-sex admissions policy of MUW's School of Nursing violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and seeking injunctive and declaratory relief as well as compensatory damages.\n\nThe District Court ruled in favor of the Mississippi University for Women, concluding that maintenance of MUW as a single-sex school bears a rational relationship to the State's legitimate interest \"in providing the greatest practical range of educational opportunities for its female student population.\" The court held that the admissions policy was not arbitrary: providing single-sex schools is consistent with a respected, though by no means universally accepted, educational theory that single-sex education affords unique benefits to students. Stating that the case presented no issue of fact, the court informed Hogan that it would enter summary judgment dismissing his claim unless he tendered a factual issue. When Hogan offered no further evidence, the District Court entered summary judgment in favor of the State.\n\nThe Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed, holding that because the admissions policy discriminated on the basis of gender, a rational relationship test was improper, and the proper test was whether the gender-based admissions policy was substantially related to an important governmental objective. The court, while recognizing that the State has a significant interest in providing educational opportunities for all its citizens, found that the State failed to show that providing a unique educational opportunity for females but not for males had any substantial relationship to that interest.\n\nThe Supreme Court's ruling did not require that the entire university become coeducational; however, the Board of Trustees of Mississippi State Institutions of Higher Learning ordered the university to change its policies to allow the admission of qualified males into all university programs. During the 2005-2006 academic year, MUW’s student body was approximately 15% male.\n\nThe Court's ruling also did not require the school to change the name of the school, and as a result the school remains \"Mississippi University for Women.\" Suits have been filed against the university to change the name claiming that its name and mission discourage males from applying for admission. These suits were dismissed as groundless and had no effect on the name.\n\nIn 2002, the administration of the university considered changing the name and pursued efforts to do so despite opposition, particularly from alumnae. In her convocation speech on August 11, 2008, President Limbert announced a new proposal to remove \"women\" from the university's name which was abandoned.\n\n"}
{"id": "1108883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108883", "title": "Moot court", "text": "Moot court\n\nMoot court is an extracurricular activity at many law schools in which participants take part in simulated court or arbitration proceedings, usually involving drafting memorials or memoranda and participating in oral argument. In most countries, the phrase \"moot court\" may be shortened to simply \"moot\" or \"mooting\". Participants are either referred to as \"mooters\" or, less conventionally, \"mooties\".\n\nMoot court involves a simulated appellate court (appellate advocacy) or arbitral case, which is different from a mock trial that involves a simulated jury trial or bench trial (trial advocacy). Moot court does not involve actual testimony by witnesses, cross-examination, or the presentation of evidence, but is focused solely on the application of the law to a common set of evidentiary assumptions, facts, and clarifications/corrections to which the competitors are introduced. Though not a moot in the traditional sense, alternative dispute resolution competitions focusing on mediation and negotiation have also branded themselves as moot competitions in recent times, as had role-playing competitions in the past.\n\nMoot court is one of the key extracurricular activities in many law schools (the others being law review and clinical work around the world). Depending on the competition, students may spend a semester researching and writing the written submissions or memorials, and another semester practicing their oral arguments, or may prepare both within the span of a few weeks. Whereas domestic moot court competitions tend to focus on municipal law such as criminal law or contract law, regional and international moot competitions tend to focus on subjects such as public international law, international human rights law, international humanitarian law, international criminal law, international trade law, international maritime law, international commercial arbitration, and foreign direct investment arbitration. Procedural issues pertaining to jurisdiction, standing, and choice of law are also occasionally engaged, especially in arbitration moots.\n\nIn most moot court competitions, each side is represented by two speakers or oralists (though the entire team composition may be larger) and a third member, sometimes known as of counsel, may be seated with the speakers. Each speaker usually speaks between 10 and 25 minutes, covering one to three main issues. After the main submissions are completed, there will usually be a short round of rebuttal and even surrebuttal. Depending on the format of the moot, there may be one or two rounds of rebuttal and surrebuttal, and communications between speakers may or may not be prohibited. Throughout the course of the submissions, judges may ask questions, though in some competitions questions are reserved to the end of submissions. In larger competitions, teams have to participate in up to ten rounds; the knockout/elimination stages are usually preceded by a number of preliminary rounds to determine seeding (power seeding is often used). Teams almost always must switch sides (applicant/appellant/claimant on one side, and respondent on the other) throughout a competition, and, depending on the format of the moot, the moot problem usually remains the same throughout. The scores of the written submissions are taken into consideration for most competitions to determine qualification and seeding, and sometimes even up to a particular knockout stage.\n\nInternational moot competitions are generally targeted at students and only allow participants who have not qualified to practice law in any jurisdiction. However, there are a handful of international moot competitions that are targeted at young lawyers, such as the ECC-SAL Moot, which is a regional moot started in 2012 and is jointly organised by Essex Court Chambers and the Singapore Academy of Law. \n\nThe first table below lists some of the more notable international moot competitions for students, the second table lists the champions and finalists for the major or grand slam competitions, while the third and final table lists the champions and finalists for the minors and regionals. Major or grand slam international moots typically refer to class-leading moots or those that attract a substantial number of teams, while smaller or less established and region-only competitions are known as minors and regionals respectively; \"international\" class moots are sandwiched between grand slams and minors and regionals in terms of scale and prestige. Some countries also divide competitions into various tiers of prestige for the purpose of awarding points in league tables, with moots such as the Jessup and Vis competitions being considered as belonging to the highest tier. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLaw schools structure their moot court programs differently. Some moot court organizations accept a small group of people for membership, and those members each participate in a number of national or regional moot court competitions. Other schools accept a larger number of members, and each member is matched with one competition. A few schools conduct moot court entirely intramurally. Moot court competitions are typically sponsored by organizations with interest in one particular area of law, and the moot court problems address an issue in that field. Competitions are often judged by legal practitioners with expertise in the particular area of law, or sometimes by sitting judges.\n\nThe basic structure of a moot court competition roughly parallels what would happen in actual appellate practice. Participants will typically receive a problem ahead of time, which includes the facts of the underlying case, and often an opinion from a lower court that is being challenged in the problem. Students must then research and prepare for that case as if they were lawyers or advocates for one or sometimes both of the parties. Depending on the competition, participants will be required to submit written briefs, participate in oral argument, or both. The case or problem is often one of current interest, sometimes mimicking an actual case, and sometimes fabricated to address difficult legal issues.\n\nA number of moot court competitions focus on specific areas of law. For example, the First Amendment Center annually holds a National First Amendment Moot Court Competition, in which the judges have included numerous United States Circuit Court judges.\n\nIn the United States, undergraduates experience moot court in a variety of disciplines and a variety of settings. The most common are in-class exercises that are assigned by professors. Other schools actually form competitive teams. These teams often compete in intramural events, some in statewide competitions, or they can enter tournaments sponsored by the American Collegiate Moot Court Association. While undergraduate moot court is still a relatively new forensics activity, when compared with speech and debate and intercollegiate mock trial, by 2010, there were 248 teams who competed at the regional tournaments. The regional tournaments vary by size, but there is a standardized process for awarding bids to nationals. Currently, teams that finish in the top 25 percent of each regional earn an automatic bid to the national tournament. The remainder of the 64 team field is awarded to at-large teams with the best records at the qualifying events. No school can earn more than eight bids to the national field. ACMA tournaments currently have three preliminary rounds and a series of elimination rounds are very much like the “sudden death”/”one-and-done” nature of the NCAA basketball tournament. The qualifying tournaments are held during the fall semester, most are in November, and the championship tournament is in mid-January.\n\nUndergraduate moot court cases pose two certified questions. The case (known as the “record”) includes an appellate majority opinion and a dissent. The “library” is a closed one. Typically, the record includes twenty opinions that students can rely upon for their arguments. Rules allow them to refer to cases cited in the cases directly included in the record. However, they can only rely on these cases within cases to the degree that they were used by the authorities directly in the record. All teams competing in ACMA-sponsored events will argue the same case. ACMA students have engaged in oral argument on issues such as same-sex marriage, national health care, privacy under the 4th Amendment, life terms for minors who are not guilty of murder or attempted murder, freedom of religion, a federal ban on firearms on school grounds, and warrantless domestic wiretapping of suspected terrorists. Cases are written by the ACMA. The case problem is released on the ACMA website by May 1 of each year.\n\nUndergraduate moot court teams consist of two oral advocates. The advocates are responsible for knowing both issues – but typically are only asked about one certified question. Each team will receive 20 minutes to argue its case, and each advocate must speak for a minimum of seven minutes. Teams are judged on their forensics, knowledge of the law, demeanor, and ability to answer questions from the bench.\n\nGood judges are the key to a good moot court hearing. Judges are typically lawyers or members of the state or federal bench. At times, law students (especially those with past undergraduate moot court experience) are asked to judge. Past judges at ACMA events have included former US Attorney General John Ashcroft and federal judges Otis Wright and George Schiavelli.\n\nThe ACMA also sponsors a brief writing contest. Students are not required to prepare briefs in order to compete for the oral advocacy national title. Teams who enter follow a specific set of rules and compete for prizes. The competition is judged by lawyers and law professors. This competition is named for the late Sandra Knerr, who along with her husband, was a dedicated supporter of intercollegiate moot court.\n\nThe courts systems differ in various parts of the United Kingdom. Thus, the style of a moot will often vary depending in which jurisdiction it is to be heard, although some national competitions do exist. The principal differences are between the laws in Scotland and those in England and Wales.\n\nIn England and Wales the moot will typically simulate proceedings in either the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court. Moot questions generally involve two questions of law that are under dispute and come with a set of facts about the case that have been decided at the first instance trial. Generally the question will surround a subject that is unclear under the present state of the law and for which no direct precedent exists. Mooting is a team effort, consisting of senior or lead counsel and junior counsel. It is normal practice for the senior counsel to take on the first point and the junior the second; although this may vary depending upon the exact nature, and necessary length, of the arguments. Typically the question will focus on one area of law, e.g. tort, contract, criminal law or property law.\n\nThe question will be provided to the teams a few weeks in advance of the moot along with details as to which of the appellant or respondent they are to represent. It is then up to each team to prepare their case as though they were barristers. Authority for each argument is necessary and will usually take the form of precedent from case law but may also involve legislation. Reliance may also be placed on governmental papers, research from NGOs and academic journals and texts.\n\nA few days before the moot takes place each team will prepare and exchange their skeleton arguments or brief. Copies will also be provided to the judge along with the moot problem. The judge is normally an academic or practising solicitor or barrister. The moot itself takes the form of an oral argument. The competition may also allow the appellants an additional few minutes in order to reply to the respondents arguments. After the presentation of arguments has concluded, the judge will retire to deliberate on both the law and the overall winning of the moot. A moot is not won and lost on the legal argument, but on the advocacy skills of the participants. It is often the case that the team that has the weaker legal argument is in a better position as they have to argue that much more persuasively.\n\nIn Scotland a moot can be set in a variety of fora; in civil law problems it is set most commonly in either the Inner House of the Court of Session or in the House of Lords, although it is not uncommon for a moot to be heard in the Sheriff Court before the Sheriff or Sheriff Principal. Occasionally, an Employment Appeal Tribunal may also be used as a forum for a Scottish civil law moot. If the moot problem concerns Criminal Law, the moot will most likely be heard as though in the Appellate division of the High Court of Justiciary (commonly known as the Court of Criminal Appeal).\n\nThe moot points and style of the problem are similar to that of England and Wales stated above; however, the format of the moot is significantly different. Junior counsel is more likely to take the first moot point and senior counsel the second (this can however be reversed depending on the problem). The format of the moot is far more adversarial than that of English and Welsh moots. This is primarily due to a more adversarial legal system. This manifests itself in different ways, most notably with the appellants and respondents facing each other during a moot, rather than, as in England and Wales, facing the judge.\n\nThere is only one national Scottish competition, the Alexander Stone National Legal Debate, administered by the Law School at the University of Glasgow. All Scottish universities that offer the LL.B. are eligible to take part, although in recent years the competition has been fought out mainly between Dundee, Edinburgh, Glasgow and Strathclyde universities. The final is held in the Alexander Stone Court Room at the University of Glasgow in February or March each year. There are also several annual inter-varsity competitions between law schools, including the Glasgow Sheriff's Cup (the University of Glasgow v the University of Strathclyde) and the Granite City Moot (the University of Aberdeen v Robert Gordon University). These competitions are ordinarily judged by a Senator of the College of Justice. \n\nLaw schools also take part in UK-wide competitions, such as the Oxford University Press and the English Speaking Union Moot. These moots are UK-wide in participation, but typically follow the style and law of moots in England and Wales. The University of Glasgow reached the semi-final of the English Speaking Union moot in 2008 and the final in 2005. The University of Dundee reached the semi finals of The Oxford University Press moots in 2009.\n\nJudges in Scottish moots are typically legal academics, solicitors, sheriffs, advocates or Senators of the College of Justice.\n\nSurana and Surana International Attorneys have been conducting various moot competitions from mid 1990s including Surana & Surana International Technology Law Moot Court Competition, Surana & Surana National Corporate Law Moot Court Competition, and Surana & Surana National Trial Advocacy Moot Court Competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "24885283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885283", "title": "Note verbale", "text": "Note verbale\n\nNote verbale (, verbal note) is a piece of diplomatic correspondence prepared in the third person and unsigned: less formal than a note (also called a letter of protest) but more formal than an aide-mémoire. A note verbale can also be referred to as a third person note (TPN). \n\nUkrainian protest of the Annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation.\nThe Ukrainian party categorically denies extension of sovereignty of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian territory, and reserves the right to exercise measures in accordance with international law and the laws of Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "24956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24956", "title": "Pacifism", "text": "Pacifism\n\nPacifism is opposition to war, militarism, or violence. The word \"pacifism\" was coined by the French peace campaigner Émile Arnaud (1864–1921) and adopted by other peace activists at the tenth Universal Peace Congress in Glasgow in 1901. A related term is \"ahimsa\" (to do no harm), which is a core philosophy in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. While modern connotations are recent, having been explicated since the 19th century, ancient references abound.\n\nIn modern times, interest was revived by Leo Tolstoy in his late works, particularly in \"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\". Mohandas Gandhi (1869–1948) propounded the practice of steadfast nonviolent opposition which he called \"satyagraha\", instrumental in its role in the Indian Independence Movement. Its effectiveness served as inspiration to Martin Luther King Jr., James Lawson, James Bevel, Thich Nhat Hanh and many others in the civil rights movement.\n\nPacifism covers a spectrum of views, including the belief that international disputes can and should be peacefully resolved, calls for the abolition of the institutions of the military and war, opposition to any organization of society through governmental force (anarchist or libertarian pacifism), rejection of the use of physical violence to obtain political, economic or social goals, the obliteration of force, and opposition to violence under any circumstance, even defence of self and others. Historians of pacifism Peter Brock and Thomas Paul Socknat define pacifism \"in the sense generally accepted in English-speaking areas\" as \"an unconditional rejection of all forms of warfare\". Philosopher Jenny Teichman defines the main form of pacifism as \"anti-warism\", the rejection of all forms of warfare. Teichman's beliefs have been summarized by Brian Orend as \"... A pacifist rejects war and believes there are no moral grounds which can justify resorting to war. War, for the pacifist, is always wrong.\" In a sense the philosophy is based on the idea that the ends do not justify the means.\n\nPacifism may be based on moral principles (a deontological view) or pragmatism (a consequentialist view). Principled pacifism holds that at some point along the spectrum from war to interpersonal physical violence, such violence becomes morally wrong. Pragmatic pacifism holds that the costs of war and interpersonal violence are so substantial that better ways of resolving disputes must be found. Pacifists generally reject theories of Just War.\n\nSome pacifists follow principles of nonviolence, believing that nonviolent action is morally superior and/or most effective. Some however, support physical violence for emergency defence of self or others. Others support destruction of property in such emergencies or for conducting symbolic acts of resistance like pouring red paint to represent blood on the outside of military recruiting offices or entering air force bases and hammering on military aircraft.\n\nNot all nonviolent resistance (sometimes also called civil resistance) is based on a fundamental rejection of all violence in all circumstances. Many leaders and participants in such movements, while recognizing the importance of using non-violent methods in particular circumstances, have not been absolute pacifists. Sometimes, as with the civil rights movement's march from Selma to Montgomery in 1965, they have called for armed protection. The interconnections between civil resistance and factors of force are numerous and complex.\n\nAn absolute pacifist is generally described by the British Broadcasting Corporation as one who believes that human life is so valuable, that a human should never be killed and war should never be conducted, even in self-defense. The principle is described as difficult to abide by consistently, due to violence not being available as a tool to aid a person who is being harmed or killed. It is further claimed that such a pacifist could logically argue that violence leads to more undesirable results than non-violence.\n\nAlthough all pacifists are opposed to war between nation states, there have been occasions where pacifists have supported military conflict in the case of civil war or revolution. For instance, during the American Civil War, both the American Peace Society and some former members of the Non-Resistance Society supported the Union's military campaign, arguing they were carrying out a \"police action\" against the Confederacy, whose act of Secession they regarded as criminal. Following the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, French pacifist René Gérin (1892–1957) urged support for the Spanish Republic. Gérin argued that the Spanish Nationalists were \"comparable to an individual enemy\" and the Republic's war effort was equivalent to the action of a domestic police force suppressing crime.\n\nIn the 1960s, some pacifists associated with the New Left supported wars of national liberation and supported groups such as the Viet Cong and the Algerian FLN, arguing peaceful attempts to liberate such nations were no longer viable, and war was thus the only option.\n\nAdvocacy of pacifism can be found far back in history and literature.\n\nDuring the Warring States period, the pacifist Mohist School opposed aggressive war between the feudal states. They took this belief into action by using their famed defensive strategies to defend smaller states from invasion from larger states, hoping to dissuade feudal lords from costly warfare. The Seven Military Classics of ancient China view warfare negatively, and as a last resort. For example, the \"Three Strategies of Huang Shigong\" says: \"As for the military, it is not an auspicious instrument; it is the way of heaven to despise it\", and the \"Wei Liaozi\" writes: \"As for the military, it is an inauspicious instrument; as for conflict and contention, it runs counter to virtue\".\n\nThe Taoist scripture \"\"Classic of Great Peace\" (\"Taiping jing\")\" foretells \"the coming Age of Great Peace (\"taiping\").\" The \"Taiping Jing\" advocates \"a world full of peace\".\n\nThe Lemba religion of southern French Congo, along with its symbolic herb, is named for pacifism : \"\"lemba, lemba\" (peace, peace), describes the action of the plant \"lemba-lemba\" (\"Brillantaisia patula T. Anders\"). Likewise in Cabinda, \"Lemba\" is the spirit of peace, as its name indicates.\"\n\nThe Moriori, of the Chatham Islands, practiced pacifism by order of their ancestor Nunuku-whenua. This enabled the Moriori to preserve what limited resources they had in their harsh climate, avoiding waste through warfare. In turn, this led to their almost complete annihilation in 1835 by invading Ngāti Mutunga and Ngāti Tama Māori from the Taranaki region of the North Island of New Zealand. The invading Māori killed, enslaved and cannibalised the Moriori. A Moriori survivor recalled : \"[The Maori] commenced to kill us like sheep ... [We] were terrified, fled to the bush, concealed ourselves in holes underground, and in any place to escape our enemies. It was of no avail; we were discovered and killed - men, women and children indiscriminately.\"\n\nIn Ancient Greece, pacifism seems not to have existed except as a broad moral guideline against violence between individuals. No philosophical program of rejecting violence between states, or rejecting all forms of violence, seems to have existed. Aristophanes, in his play Lysistrata, creates the scenario of an Athenian woman's anti-war sex strike during the Peloponnesian War of 431–404 BC, and the play has gained an international reputation for its anti-war message. Nevertheless, it is both fictional and comical, and though it offers a pragmatic opposition to the destructiveness of war, its message seems to stem from frustration with the existing conflict (then in its twentieth year) rather than from a philosophical position against violence or war. Equally fictional is the nonviolent protest of Hegetorides of Thasos. Euripides also expressed strong anti-war ideas in his work, especially \"The Trojan Women\".\n\nSeveral Roman writers rejected the militarism of Roman society and gave voice to anti-war sentiments,\nincluding Propertius, Tibullus and Ovid. The Stoic Seneca the Younger criticised warfare in his book \"Naturales quaestiones\" (circa 65 AD).\n\nMaximilian of Tebessa was a Christian conscientious objector. He was killed for refusing to be conscripted.\n\nThroughout history many have understood Jesus of Nazareth to have been a pacifist, drawing on his Sermon on the Mount. In the sermon Jesus stated that one should \"not resist an evildoer\" and promoted his turn the other cheek philosophy. \"If anyone strikes you on the right cheek, turn the other also; and if anyone wants to sue you and take your coat, give your cloak as well ... Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who abuse you.\" The New Testament story is of Jesus, besides preaching these words, surrendering himself freely to an enemy intent on having him killed and proscribing his followers from defending him.\n\nThere are those, however, who deny that Jesus was a pacifist and state that Jesus never said not to fight, citing examples from the New Testament. One such instance portrays an angry Jesus driving dishonest market traders from the temple. A frequently quoted passage is Luke 22:36: \"He said to them, 'But now, the one who has a purse must take it, and likewise a bag. And the one who has no sword must sell his cloak and buy one.'\" Pacifists have typically explained that verse as Jesus fulfilling prophecy, since in the next verse, Jesus continues to say: \"It is written: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors'; and I tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. Yes, what is written about me is reaching its fulfillment.\" Others have interpreted the non-pacifist statements in the New Testament to be related to self-defense or to be metaphorical and state that on no occasion did Jesus shed blood or urge others to shed blood.\n\nBeginning in the 16th century, the Protestant Reformation gave rise to a variety of new Christian sects, including the historic peace churches. Foremost among them were the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), Amish, Mennonites, and Church of the Brethren. The humanist writer Desiderius Erasmus was one of the most outspoken pacifists of the Renaissance, arguing strongly against warfare in his essays \"The Praise of Folly\" (1509) and \"The Complaint of Peace\" (1517).\n\nThe Quakers were prominent advocates of pacifism, who as early as 1660 had repudiated violence in all forms and adhered to a strictly pacifist interpretation of Christianity. They stated their beliefs in a declaration to King Charles II:\n\nThroughout the many 18th century wars in which Britain participated, the Quakers maintained a principled commitment not to serve in the army and militia or even to pay the alternative £10 fine.\n\nThe English Quaker William Penn, who founded the Province of Pennsylvania, employed an anti-militarist public policy. Unlike residents of many of the colonies, Quakers chose to trade peacefully with the Indians, including for land. The colonial province was, for the 75 years from 1681 to 1756, essentially unarmed and experienced little or no warfare in that period.\n\nFrom the 16th to the 18th centuries, a number of thinkers devised plans for an international organisation that would promote peace, and reduce or even eliminate the occurrence of war. These included the French politician Duc de Sully, the philosophers Émeric Crucé and the Abbe de Saint-Pierre, and the English Quakers William Penn and John Bellers.\n\nPacifist ideals emerged from two strands of thought that coalesced at the end of the 18th century. One, rooted in the secular Enlightenment, promoted peace as the rational antidote to the world's ills, while the other was a part of the evangelical religious revival that had played an important part in the campaign for the abolition of slavery. Representatives of the former included Jean-Jacques Rousseau, in \"Extrait du Projet de Paix Perpetuelle de Monsieur l'Abbe Saint-Pierre\" (1756), Immanuel Kant, in his \"Thoughts on Perpetual Peace\", and Jeremy Bentham who proposed the formation of a peace association in 1789. Representative of the latter, was William Wilberforce who thought that strict limits should be imposed on British involvement in the French Revolutionary War based on Christian ideals of peace and brotherhood. Bohemian Bernard Bolzano (1781–1848) taught about the social waste of militarism and the needlessness of war. He urged a total reform of the educational, social, and economic systems that would direct the nation's interests toward peace rather than toward armed conflict between nations.\n\nDuring the period of the Napoleonic Wars, although no formal peace movement was established until the end of hostilities, a significant peace movement animated by universalist ideals did emerge, due to the perception of Britain fighting in a reactionary role and the increasingly visible impact of the war on the welfare of the nation in the form of higher taxation levels and high casualty rates. Sixteen peace petitions to Parliament were signed by members of the public, anti-war and anti-Pitt demonstrations convened and peace literature was widely published and disseminated.\nThe first peace movements appeared in 1815–16. In the United States the first such movement was the New York Peace Society, founded in 1815 by the theologian David Low Dodge, and the Massachusetts Peace Society. It became an active organization, holding regular weekly meetings, and producing literature which was spread as far as Gibraltar and Malta, describing the horrors of war and advocating pacificism on Christian grounds. The London Peace Society (also known as the Society for the Promotion of Permanent and Universal Peace) was formed in 1816 to promote permanent and universal peace by the philanthropist William Allen. In the 1840s, British women formed \"Olive Leaf Circles\", groups of around 15 to 20 women, to discuss and promote pacifist ideas.\n\nThe peace movement began to grow in influence by the mid-nineteenth century. The London Peace Society, under the initiative of American consul to Birmingham Elihu Burritt and the reverend Henry Richard, convened the first International Peace Congress in London in 1843. The congress decided on two aims: the ideal of peaceable arbitration in the affairs of nations and the creation of an international institution to achieve that. Richard became the secretary of the Peace Society in 1850 on a full-time basis, a position which he would keep for the next 40 years, earning himself a reputation as the 'Apostle of Peace'. He helped secure one of the earliest victories for the peace movement by securing a commitment from the Great Powers in the Treaty of Paris (1856) at the end of the Crimean War, in favour of arbitration. On the European continent, wracked by social upheaval, the first peace congress was held in Brussels in 1848 followed by Paris a year later.\n\nAfter experiencing a recession in support due to the resurgence of militarism during the American Civil War and Crimean War, the movement began to spread across Europe and began to infiltrate the new working class socialist movements. In 1870, Randal Cremer formed the Workman's Peace Association in London. Cremer, alongside the French economist Frédéric Passy was also the founding father of the first international organisation for the arbitration of conflicts in 1889, the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The National Peace Council was founded in after the 17th Universal Peace Congress in London (July August 1908).\n\nAn important thinker who contributed to pacifist ideology was Russian writer Leo Tolstoy. In one of his latter works, \"The Kingdom of God is Within You\", Tolstoy provides a detailed history, account and defense of pacifism. Tolstoy's work inspired a movement named after him advocating pacifism to arise in Russia and elsewhere. The book was a major early influence on Mohandas K. Gandhi (1869–1948), and the two engaged in regular correspondence while Gandhi was active in South Africa.\n\nBertha von Suttner, the first woman to be a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, became a leading figure in the peace movement with the publication of her novel, \"Die Waffen nieder!\" (\"Lay Down Your Arms!\") in 1889 and founded an Austrian pacifist organization in 1891.\n\nIn New Zealand, during the latter half of the 19th century British colonists used many tactics to confiscate land from the indigenous Māori, including warfare. In the 1870s and 1880s, Parihaka, then reputed to be the largest Māori village in New Zealand, became the centre of a major campaign of non-violent resistance to European occupation of confiscated land in the area. One Māori leader, Te Whiti-o-Rongomai, inspired warriors to stand up for their rights without using weapons, which had led to defeat in the past. In 1881 he convinced 2000 Maori to welcome battle-hardened British soldiers into their village and even offered food and drink. He allowed himself and his people to be arrested without resistance for opposing land confiscation. He is remembered as a great leader because the \"passive resistance\" his practice prevented British massacres and even protected far more land than violent resistance.\n\nMohandas K. Gandhi was a major political and spiritual leader of India, instrumental in the Indian independence movement. The Nobel prize winning great poet Rabindranath Tagore, who was also an Indian, gave him the honorific \"Mahatma\", usually translated \"Great Soul.\" He was the pioneer of a brand of nonviolence (or \"ahimsa\") which he called \"satyagraha\"—translated literally as \"truth force\". This was the resistance of tyranny through civil disobedience that was not only nonviolent but also sought to change the heart of the opponent. He contrasted this with \"duragraha\", \"resistant force,\" which sought only to change behaviour with stubborn protest.\n\nDuring his 30 years of work (1917–1947) for the independence of his country from the British Raj, Gandhi led dozens of nonviolent campaigns, spent over seven years in prison, and fasted nearly to the death on several occasions to obtain British compliance with a demand or to stop inter-communal violence. His efforts helped lead India to independence in 1947, and inspired movements for civil rights and freedom worldwide.\n\nPeace movements became active in the Western world after 1900, often focusing on Treaties that would settle disputes through arbitration, and efforts to support the Hague conventions.\n\nThe sudden outbreak of the First World War in July 1914 dismayed the peace movement. Socialist parties in every industrial nation had committed themselves to antiwar policies, but when the war came, all of them, except in Russia and the United States, supported their own government. There were highly publicized dissidents, some of whom went to jail for opposing the draft laws, like Eugene Debs in the U.S. In Britain, the prominent activist Stephen Henry Hobhouse went to prison for refusing military service, citing his convictions as an \"International Socialist and a Christian\" Many socialist groups and movements were antimilitarist, arguing that war by its nature was a type of governmental coercion of the working class for the benefit of capitalist elites. The French socialist pacifist leader Jean Jaurès was assassinated by a nationalist fanatic on July 31, 1914. The national parties in the Second International increasingly supported their respective nations in war and the International was dissolved in 1916.\n\nIn 1915 the League of Nations Society was formed by British liberal leaders to promote a strong international organisation that could enforce the peaceful resolution of conflict. Later that year the League to Enforce Peace was established in America to promote similar goals. Hamilton Holt published an editorial in his New York City weekly magazine the \"Independent\" called \"The Way to Disarm: A Practical Proposal\" on September 28, 1914. It called for an international organization to agree upon the arbitration of disputes and to guarantee the territorial integrity of its members by maintaining military forces sufficient to defeat those of any non-member. The ensuing debate among prominent internationalists modified Holt's plan to align it more closely with proposals offered in Great Britain by Viscount James Bryce, a former ambassador from the U.K. to the U.S. These and other initiatives were pivotal in the change in attitudes that gave birth to the League of Nations after the war.\n\nSome of the many groups that protested against the war, as well as the traditional peace churches, were the Woman's Peace Party (which was organized in 1915 and led by noted reformer Jane Addams), the International Committee of Women for Permanent Peace (ICWPP) (also organized in 1915), the American Union Against Militarism, the Fellowship of Reconciliation, and the American Friends Service Committee. Jeannette Rankin, the first woman elected to Congress, was another fierce advocate of pacifism, the only person to vote no to America's entrance into both World Wars.\n\nThe immense loss of life during the war, for what became regarded as futile reasons, caused a sea-change in public attitudes to militarism. Organisations formed in this period included the War Resisters' International the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, the No More War Movement and the Peace Pledge Union (PPU). The League of Nations also convened several disarmament conferences in the inter-war period such as the Geneva Conference.\n\nPacifism and revulsion with war were very popular sentiments in 1920s Britain. A stream of novels and poems on the theme of the futility of war and the slaughter of the youth by old fools were published, including, Death of a Hero by Richard Aldington, Erich Remarque's translated All Quiet on the Western Front and Beverley Nichols's expose \"Cry Havoc\". A debate at the University of Oxford in 1933 on the motion 'one must fight for King and country' captured the changed mood when the motion was resoundingly defeated. Dick Sheppard established the Peace Pledge Union in 1934 totally renouncing war and aggression. The idea of collective security was also popular; instead of outright pacifism the public generally exhibited a determination to stand up to aggression, but preferably with the use of economic sanctions and multilateral negotiations. Many members of the Peace Pledge Union later joined the Bruderhof during its period of residence in the Cotswolds. There, English, Jews and Germans lived side by side despite local persecution.\nThe British Labour Party had a strong pacifist wing in the early 1930s and between 1931 and 1935 was led by George Lansbury, a Christian pacifist who later chaired the No More War Movement and was president of the PPU. The 1933 annual conference resolved unanimously to \"pledge itself to take no part in war\". \"Labour's official position, however, although based on the aspiration towards a world socialist commonwealth and the outlawing of war, did not imply a renunciation of force under all circumstances, but rather support for the ill-defined concept of 'collective security' under the League of Nations. At the same time, on the party's left, Stafford Cripps's small but vocal Socialist League opposed the official policy, on the non-pacifist ground that the League of Nations was 'nothing but the tool of the satiated imperialist powers'.\" Lansbury was eventually persuaded to resign as Labour leader by the non-pacifist wing of the party and was replaced by Clement Attlee. As the threat from Nazi Germany increased in the 1930s, the Labour Party abandoned its pacifist position and supported re-armament, largely due to the efforts of Ernest Bevin and Hugh Dalton who by 1937 had also persuaded the party to oppose Neville Chamberlain's policy of appeasement.\n\nThe League of Nations attempted to play its role of ensuring world peace in the 1920s and 30s, although with the increasingly revisionist and aggressive behaviour of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and Imperial Japan, it ultimately failed to maintain such a world order. Economic sanctions were used against states that committed aggression, such as Italy when it invaded Abyssinia, but there was no will on the part of the principal League powers, Britain and France, to subordinate their interests to a multilateral process or to disarm at all themselves.\n\nThe Spanish Civil War proved a major test for international pacifism, and the work of pacifist organisations (such as War Resisters' International and the Fellowship of Reconciliation) and individuals (such as José Brocca and Amparo Poch) in that arena has until recently been ignored or forgotten by historians, overshadowed by the memory of the International Brigades and other militaristic interventions. Shortly after the war ended, Simone Weil, despite having volunteered for service on the republican side, went on to publish \"The Iliad or the Poem of Force\", a work that has been described as a pacifist manifesto. In response to the threat of fascism, some pacifist thinkers, such as Richard B. Gregg, devised plans for a campaign of nonviolent resistance in the event of a fascist invasion or takeover.\n\nWith the start of World War II, pacifist and anti-war sentiment declined in nations affected by war. Even the communist-controlled American Peace Mobilization reversed its anti-war activism once Germany invaded the Soviet Union in 1941. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, mainstream isolationist groups like the America First Committee, declined, but many smaller religious and socialist groups continued their opposition to war. Bertrand Russell argued that the necessity of defeating Adolf Hitler and the Nazis was a unique circumstance where war was not the worst of the possible evils; he called his position \"relative pacifism\". Shortly before the outbreak of war, British writers such as E. M. Forster, Leonard Woolf, David Garnett and Storm Jameson all rejected their earlier pacifism and endorsed military action against Nazism. Similarly Albert Einstein wrote: \"I loathe all armies and any kind of violence; yet I'm firmly convinced that at present these hateful weapons offer the only effective protection.\" The British pacifists Reginald Sorensen and C. J. Cadoux, while bitterly disappointed by the outbreak of war, nevertheless urged their fellow pacifists \"not to obstruct the war effort\".\n\nThe French pacifists André and Magda Trocmé helped conceal hundreds of Jews fleeing the Nazis in the village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon. After the war, the Trocmés were declared Righteous Among the Nations.\n\nPacifists in the Third Reich were dealt with harshly; German pacifist Carl von Ossietzky, and Olaf Kullmann, a Norwegian pacifist active during the Nazi occupation, were both imprisoned in concentration camps and died as a result of their mistreatment there. Austrian farmer Franz Jägerstätter was executed in 1943 for refusing to serve in the Wehrmacht.\n\nAfter the end of the war, it was discovered that \"The Black Book\" or \"Sonderfahndungsliste G.B.\" list of Britons to be arrested in the event of a Nazi invasion of the UK included three active pacifists; Vera Brittain, Sybil Thorndike and Aldous Huxley (who had left the country).\n\nThere were conscientious objectors and war tax resisters in both World War I and World War II. The United States government allowed sincere objectors to serve in noncombatant military roles. However, those draft resisters who refused any cooperation with the war effort often spent much of each war in federal prisons. During World War II, pacifist leaders like Dorothy Day and Ammon Hennacy of the Catholic Worker Movement urged young Americans not to enlist in military service.\n\nMartin Luther King Jr (1929–68), a Baptist minister, led the civil rights movement, which successfully used Gandhian nonviolent resistance to repeal laws enforcing racial segregation and work for integration of schools, businesses and government. In 1957, his wife Coretta Scott King, Albert Schweitzer, Benjamin Spock, and others formed the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy (now Peace Action) to resist the nuclear arms race. In 1958 British activists formed the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament with Bertrand Russell as its president.\n\nIn 1960, Thich Nhat Hanh came to the US to study comparative religion at Princeton University and subsequently was appointed lecturer in Buddhism at Columbia University. Thich Nhat Hanh had written a letter to Martin Luther King in 1965 entitled \"Searching for the Enemy of Man\" and during his 1966 stay in the US met with King and urged him to publicly denounce the Vietnam War. King gave his famous speech at the Riverside Church in New York City in 1967, his first to publicly question the U.S. involvement in Vietnam.\n\nOther examples from this period include the 1986 People Power Revolution in the Philippines led by Cory Aquino, and the 1989 Tiananmen Square Protests which included the broadly publicized \"Tank Man\" incident.\n\nOn December 1, 1948, President José Figueres Ferrer of Costa Rica abolished the Costa Rican military. In 1949, the abolition of the military was introduced in Article 12 of the Costa Rican constitution. The budget previously dedicated to the military is now dedicated to providing health care services and education.\n\nAccording to the Ahmadiyya understanding of Islam, pacifism is a strong current, and jihad is one's personal inner struggle and should not be used violently for political motives. Violence is the last option only to be used to protect religion and one's own life in extreme situations of persecution. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, said that in contrary to the current views, Islam \"does not allow the use of sword in religion, except in the case of defensive wars, wars waged to punish a tyrant, or those meant to uphold freedom\".\n\nAhmadiyya claims its objective to be the peaceful propagation of Islam with special emphasis on spreading the true message of Islam by the pen. Ahmadis point out that as per prophecy, who they believe was the promised messiah, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, rendered the concept of violent jihad unnecessary in modern times. They believe that the answer of hate should be given by love.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith abolished holy war and emphasized its abolition as a central teaching of his faith. However, the Bahá'í Faith does not have an absolute pacifistic position. For example, Bahá'ís are advised to do social service instead of active army service, but when this is not possible because of obligations in certain countries, the Bahá'í law of \"loyalty to one's government\" is preferred and the individual should perform the army service. Shoghi Effendi, the head of the Bahá'í Faith in the first half of the 20th century, noted that in the Bahá'í view, absolute pacifists are anti-social and exalt the individual over society which could lead to anarchy; instead he noted that the Bahá'í conception of social life follows a moderate view where the individual is not suppressed or exalted.\n\nOn the level of society, Bahá'u'lláh promotes the principle of collective security, which does not abolish the use of force, but prescribes \"a system in which Force is made the servant of Justice.\" The idea of collective security from the Bahá'í teachings states that if a government violates a fundamental norm of international law or provision of a future world constitution which Bahá'ís believe will be established by all nations, then the other governments should step in.\n\nBuddhism is generally seen as among the least violent religious traditions, and Ahimsa (do no harm), is a primary virtue in Buddhism.\n\nAung San Suu Kyi is a Buddhist nonviolent pro-democracy activist and leader of the National League for Democracy in Myanmar (Burma), who became State Counsellor (similar to prime minister) of Myanmar in April 2016. A devout Buddhist, Suu Kyi won the Rafto Prize and the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought in 1990 and in 1991 was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for her peaceful and non-violent struggle under a repressive military dictatorship. One of her best known speeches is the \"Freedom From Fear\" speech, which begins, \"It is not power that corrupts but fear. Fear of losing power corrupts those who wield it and fear of the scourge of power corrupts those who are subject to it.\"\n\nPeace churches are Christian denominations explicitly advocating pacifism. The term \"historic peace churches\" refers specifically to three church traditions: the Church of the Brethren, the Mennonites (and some other Anabaptists, such as Amish Hutterites, and the Bruderhof), and the Quakers (Religious Society of Friends). The historic peace churches have, from their origins as far back as the 16th century, always taken the position that Jesus was himself a pacifist who explicitly taught and practiced pacifism, and that his followers must do likewise. Pacifist churches vary on whether physical force can ever be justified in self-defense or protecting others, as many adhere strictly to nonresistance when confronted by violence. But all agree that violence on behalf of a country or a government is prohibited for Christians.\n\nJay Beaman's thesis states that 13 of 21, or 62% of American Pentecostal groups formed by 1917 show evidence of being pacifist sometime in their history. Furthermore, Jay Beaman has shown in his thesis that there has been a shift away from pacifism in the American Pentecostal churches to more a style of military support and chaplaincy. The major organisation for Pentecostal Christians who believe in pacifism is the PCPF, the Pentecostal Charismatic Peace Fellowship.\n\nThe United Pentecostal Church, the largest Apostolic/Oneness denomination, takes an official stand of conscientious objection: its Articles of Faith read, \"We are constrained to declare against participating in combatant service in war, armed insurrection ... aiding or abetting in or the actual destruction of human life. We believe that we can be consistent in serving our Government in certain noncombatant capacities, but not in the bearing of arms.\"\n\nThe Peace Pledge Union was a pacifist organisation from which the Anglican Pacifist Fellowship (APF) later emerged within the Anglican Church. The APF succeeded in gaining ratification of the pacifist position at two successive Lambeth Conferences, but many Anglicans would not regard themselves as pacifists. South African Bishop Desmond Tutu is the most prominent Anglican pacifist. Rowan Williams led an almost united Anglican Church in Britain in opposition to the 2003 Iraq War. In Australia Peter Carnley similarly led a front of bishops opposed to the Government of Australia's involvement in the invasion of Iraq.\n\nThe Catholic Worker Movement is concerned with both social justice and pacifist issues, and voiced consistent opposition to the Spanish Civil War and World War II. Many of its early members were imprisoned for their opposition to conscription. Within the Roman Catholic Church, the Pax Christi organisation is the premiere pacifist lobby group. It holds positions similar to APF, and the two organisations are known to work together on ecumenical projects. Within Roman Catholicism there has been a discernible move towards a more pacifist position through the twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. Popes Benedict XV, John XXIII and John Paul II were all vocal in their opposition to specific wars. By taking the name Benedict XVI, some suspected that Joseph Ratzinger would continue the strong emphasis upon nonviolent conflict resolution of his predecessor. However, the Roman Catholic Church officially maintains the legitimacy of Just War, which is rejected by some pacifists.\n\nIn the twentieth century there was a notable trend among prominent Roman Catholics towards pacifism. Individuals such as Dorothy Day and Henri Nouwen stand out among them. The monk and mystic Thomas Merton was noted for his commitment to pacifism during the Vietnam War era. Murdered Salvadoran Bishop Óscar Romero was notable for using non-violent resistance tactics and wrote meditative sermons focusing on the power of prayer and peace. School of the Americas Watch was founded by Maryknoll Fr. Roy Bourgeois in 1990 and uses strictly pacifist principles to protest the training of Latin American military officers by United States Army officers at the School of the Americas in the state of Georgia.\n\nThe Greek Orthodox Church also tends towards pacifism, though it has accepted defensive warfare through most of its history. However, more recently it took a strong stance towards the war in Lebanon and its large community there refused to take up arms during its civil wars. It also supports dialogue with Islam. In 1998 the Third Pre-conciliar Pan-Orthodox Conference drew up a text on \"the contribution of the Orthodox Church to the achievement of peace\" emphasizing respect for the human person and the inseparability of peace from justice. The text states in part: \"Orthodoxy condemns war in general, for she regards it as a consequence of the evil and sin in the world.\"\n\nThe Southern Baptist Convention has stated in the Baptist Faith and Message, \"It is the duty of Christians to seek peace with all men on principles of righteousness. In accordance with the spirit and teachings of Christ they should do all in their power to put an end to war.\"\n\nThe United Methodist Church explicitly supports conscientious objection by its members \"as an ethically valid position\" while simultaneously allowing for differences of opinion and belief for those who do not object to military service.\n\nMembers of the Rastafari Movement's Mansion Nyabinghi are specifically noted for having a large population of Pacifist members, though not all of them are.\n\nNon violence, or ahimsa, is a central part of Hinduism and is one of the fundamental Yamas - self restraints needed to live a proper life. The concept of ahimsa grew gradually within Hinduism, one of the signs being the discouragement of ritual animal sacrifice. Most Hindus today have a vegetarian diet. There are debates on how far the principle of ahimsa applies and if there is such a thing as a \"just war\".\n\nNon-violence, Compassion for all life, human and non-human, is central to Jainism. Human life is valued as a unique, rare opportunity to reach enlightenment. Killing any person, no matter what crime he may have committed, is considered unimaginably terrible. It is a religion that requires monks, from all its sects and traditions, to be vegetarian. Some Indian regions, such as Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh have been strongly influenced by Jains and often the majority of the local Hindus of every denomination are also vegetarian.\n\nThe attitude of Jews toward pacifism, as with most other aspects of religion, is heavily influenced by the Holocaust which was a program of Nazi Germany to murder every man, woman and child who was Jewish as well as people of other religions who had a Jewish grandparent. As a result, some six million people were exterminated by various means because the Nazis considered them Jews and therefore unworthy of life. In hindsight, there were opportunities for a number of years to defeat Nazi Germany before it could build a military force strong enough to capture and kill most of the Jews of Europe. Forces which deterred the democracies from acting to stop Hitler early on and at a much, much lower cost in human life were pacifism, appeasement, and isolationism. People who offered no resistance to the Nazis enabled them to carry out their oppression and aggression, costing tens of millions of lives in World War II. Had pacifism gained more support, the Allies might have lost the war and virtually all Jews would have been killed.\nThe Jewish Peace Fellowship is a New-York based nonprofit, nondenominational organization set up to provide a Jewish voice in the peace movement. The organization was founded in 1941 in order to support Jewish conscientious objectors who sought exemption from combatant military service. It is affiliated to the International Fellowship of Reconciliation. The small Neturei Karta group of anti-Zionist, ultra-orthodox Jews, supposedly take a pacifist line, saying that \"Jews are not allowed to dominate, kill, harm or demean another people and are not allowed to have anything to do with the Zionist enterprise, their political meddling and their wars.\". However, the Neturei Karta group do support groups such as Hezbollah and Hamas that are violent towards Israel. The Hebrew Bible is full of examples when Jews were told to go and war against enemy lands or within the Israelite community as well as instances where God, as destroyer and protector, goes to war for non-participant Jews. The Holocaust Remembrance Day (called Yom Hashoah in Hebrew) is a day a remembrance for many Jews as they honor those who fought to end the Hitler government which starved, shot, gassed and burned over six million Jews to death. It is observed on the day corresponding to the 27th day of the month of Nisan on the Hebrew calendar.\n\nNon-violence is an important doctrine within Raëlism. The founder of this religion Rael has said \"\"The one holding the weapon is as responsible as the one giving the orders\". Other Rael statements include \"even if the Elohim asked them to kill someone they should refuse\"\".\n\nWhile many governments have tolerated pacifist views and even accommodated pacifists' refusal to fight in wars, others at times have outlawed pacifist and anti-war activity. In 1918, The United States Congress passed the Sedition Act of 1918. During the periods between World Wars I and World War II, pacifist literature and public advocacy was banned in Italy under Benito Mussolini, Germany after the rise of Adolf Hitler,\nSpain under Francisco Franco,\nand the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin. In these nations, pacifism was denounced as cowardice; indeed, Mussolini referred to pacifist writings as the \"propaganda of cowardice\".\n\nToday, the United States requires that all young men register for selective service but does not allow them to be classified as conscientious objectors unless they are drafted in some future reinstatement of the draft, allowing them to be discharged or transferred to noncombatant status. Some European governments like Switzerland, Greece, Norway and Germany offer civilian service. However, even during periods of peace, many pacifists still refuse to register for or report for military duty, risking criminal charges.\n\nAnti-war and \"pacifist\" political parties seeking to win elections may moderate their demands, calling for de-escalation or major arms reduction rather than the outright disarmament which is advocated by many pacifists. Green parties list \"non-violence\" and \"decentralization\" towards anarchist co-operatives or minimalist village government as two of their ten key values. However, in power, Greens often compromise. The German Greens in the cabinet of Social Democrat Gerhard Schröder supported an intervention by German troops in Afghanistan in 2001 if that they hosted the peace conference in Berlin. However, during the 2002 election Greens forced Schröder to swear that no German troops would invade Iraq.\n\nThe controversial democratic peace theory holds that liberal democracies have never (or rarely) made war on one another and that lesser conflicts and internal violence are rare between and within democracies. It also argues that the growth in the number of democratic states will, in the not so distant future, end warfare.\nSome pacifists and multilateralists are in favor of international criminal law as means to prevent and control international aggression. The International Criminal Court has jurisdiction over war crimes, but the crime of aggression has yet to be clearly defined in international law.\n\nThe Italian Constitution enforces a mild pacifist character on the Italian Republic, as Article 11 states that \"Italy repudiates war as an instrument offending the liberty of the peoples and as a means for settling international disputes ...\" Similarly, Articles 24, 25 and 26 of the German Constitution (1949), Alinea 15 of the French Constitution (1946), Article 20 of the Danish Constitution (1953), Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution (1947) and several other mostly European constitutions correspond to the United Nations Charter by rejecting the institution of war in favour of collective security and peaceful cooperation.\n\nHowever, some pacifists, such as the Christian anarchist Leo Tolstoy and autarchist Robert LeFevre, consider the state a form of warfare. In addition, for doctrinal reason that a manmade government is inferior to divine governance and law, many pacifist-identified religions/religious sects also refrain from political activity altogether, including the Anabaptists, Jehovah's Witnesses and Mandaeans. This means that such groups refuse to participate in government office or serve under an oath to a government.\n\nAnarcho-pacifism (also pacifist anarchism or anarchist pacifism) is a form of anarchism which completely rejects the use of violence in any form for any purpose. The main precedent was Henry David Thoreau who through his work Civil Disobedience influenced the advocacy of both Leo Tolstoy and Mohandas Gandhi for nonviolent resistance. As a global movement, Anarchist pacifism emerged shortly before World War II in the Netherlands, Great Britain and the United States and was a strong presence in the subsequent campaigns for nuclear disarmament.\n\nViolence has always been controversial in anarchism. While many anarchists during the 19th century embraced propaganda of the deed, Leo Tolstoy and other anarcho-pacifists directly opposed violence as a means for change. He argued that anarchism must by nature be nonviolent since it is, by definition, opposition to coercion and force and since the state is inherently violent, meaningful pacifism must likewise be anarchistic. His philosophy was cited as a major inspiration by Mohandas Gandhi, an Indian independence leader and pacifist who self-identified as an anarchist. Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis was also instrumental in establishing the pacifist trend within the anarchist movement. In France anti-militarism appeared strongly in individualist anarchist circles as Émile Armand founded \"Ligue Antimilitariste\" in 1902 with Albert Libertad and George Mathias Paraf-Javal.\n\nMany pacifists who would be conscientious objectors to military service are also opposed to paying taxes to fund the military. In the United States, The National Campaign for a Peace Tax Fund works to pass a national law to allow conscientious objectors to redirect their tax money to be used only for non-military purposes.\n\nOne common argument against pacifism is the possibility of using violence to prevent further acts of violence (and reduce the \"net-sum\" of violence). This argument hinges on consequentialism: an otherwise morally objectionable action can be justified if it results in a positive outcome. For example, either violent rebellion, or foreign nations sending in troops to end a dictator's violent oppression may save millions of lives, even if many thousands died in the war. Those pacifists who base their beliefs on deontological grounds would oppose such violent action. Others would oppose organized military responses but support individual and small group self-defense against specific attacks if initiated by the dictator's forces. Pacifists may argue that military action could be justified should it subsequently advance the general cause of peace.\n\nStill more pacifists would argue that a nonviolent reaction may not save lives immediately but would in the long run. The acceptance of violence for any reason makes it easier to use in other situations. Learning and committing to pacifism helps to send a message that violence is, in fact, not the most effective way. It can also help people to think more creatively and find more effective ways to stop violence without more violence.\n\nIn light of the common criticism of pacifism as not offering a clear alternative policy, one approach to finding \"more effective ways\" has been the attempt to develop the idea of \"defence by civil resistance\", also called \"social defence\". This idea, which is not necessarily dependent on acceptance of pacifist beliefs, is based on relying on nonviolent resistance against possible threats, whether external (such as invasion) or internal (such as coup d'état).\nThere have been some works on this topic, including by Adam Roberts and Gene Sharp. However, no country has adopted this approach as the sole basis of its defence. (For further information and sources see social defence.)\n\nJapanese, Italian and Nazi aggression that precipitated World War II often is cited as an argument against pacifism. If these forces had not been challenged and defeated militarily, the argument goes, many more people would have died under their oppressive rule. Adolf Hitler told the British Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax in 1937 that the British should \"shoot Gandhi, and if this doesn't suffice to reduce them to submission, shoot a dozen leading members of the Congress, and if that doesn't suffice shoot 200, and so on, as you make it clear that you mean business.\"\n\nAdolf Hitler noted in his Second Book: \"... Later, the attempt to adapt the living space to increased population turned into unmotivated wars of conquest, which in their very lack of motivation contained the germ of the subsequent reaction. Pacifism is the answer to it. Pacifism has existed in the world ever since there have been wars whose meaning no longer lay in the conquest of territory for a Folk's sustenance. Since then it has been war's eternal companion. It will again disappear as soon as war ceases to be an instrument of booty hungry or power hungry individuals or nations, and as soon as it again becomes the ultimate weapon with which a Folk fights for its daily bread.\"\n\nHermann Göring described, during an interview at the Nuremberg Trials, how denouncing and outlawing pacifism was an important part of the Nazis' seizure of power: \"The people can always be brought to the bidding of the leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked and denounce the pacifists for lack of patriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works the same way in any country.\"\n\nSome commentators on the most nonviolent forms of pacifism, including Jan Narveson, argue that such pacifism is a self-contradictory doctrine. Narveson claims that everyone has rights and corresponding responsibilities not to violate others' rights. Since pacifists give up their ability to protect themselves from violation of their right not to be harmed, then other people thus have no corresponding responsibility, thus creating a paradox of rights. Narveson said that \"the prevention of infractions of that right is precisely what one has a right to when one has a right at all\". Narveson then discusses how rational persuasion is a good but often inadequate method of discouraging an aggressor. He considers that everyone has the right to use any means necessary to prevent deprivation of their civil liberties and force could be necessary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236584", "title": "Paralegal", "text": "Paralegal\n\nA paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience, who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency, or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. However, this definition varies depending on the jurisdiction; in Ontario, Canada, paralegals are independent legal practitioners, licensed by the Law Society of Ontario to provide legal services to members of the public. Licensed paralegals in Ontario may manage their own legal firm. They are employed as municipal and provincial prosecutors and may be appointed as justices of the peace.\n\nA paralegal is a person trained in legal matters who performs tasks requiring knowledge of the law and legal procedures. A paralegal is not a lawyer but can be employed by a law office or work freelance at a company or law office. Paralegals are not allowed to offer legal services. Legal Ethics for Paralegals on their own and must perform their legal work under an attorney or law firm (except in Ontario, Canada). Many paralegals have their own companies and are called Law Agents, providing services such as settlements, court filings, legal research and other auxiliary legal services. These tasks often have instructions from a solicitor attached. Other tasks may only be the title of a task to be performed with no instructions of how it is to be completed. Often the instructing legal entity relies on the expertise of a paralegal in regard to how compliance is to be met in completing tasks.\n\nIn the U.S. a paralegal is protected under the theory that paralegals are working as an enhancement of an attorney and what he or she does is due to instruction by the attorney and the attorney is ultimately responsible. Paralegals often have taken a prescribed series of courses in law and legal processes. Paralegals may analyze and summarize depositions, prepare and answer interrogatories, draft procedural motions and other routine briefs, perform legal research and analysis, draft research memos, and perform case and project management. Paralegals often handle drafting much of the paper work in probate cases, divorce actions, bankruptcies, and investigations. Consumers of legal services are typically billed for the time paralegals spend on their cases.\n\nThe definition of paralegal varies by country. In the United States, they are not authorized by the government or other agency to offer legal services (including legal advice) except in Washington State in the same way as lawyers, nor are they officers of the court, nor are they usually subject to government-sanctioned or court-sanctioned rules of conduct. In contrast, in Ontario, Canada, paralegals are licensed and regulated the same way that lawyers are. In Ontario, licensed paralegals provide permitted legal services to the public and appear before certain lower courts and administrative tribunals.\n\nVarious professional organizations offer official definitions of a paralegal. These definitions typically have slight differences.\n\nA legal secretary is generally a secretary who has a basic understanding of legal terminology and the specific formatting required by a particular court or government agency. Legal secretaries are also typically responsible for keeping case files organized and indexed, often taking on the duties of a file clerk. Although legal secretaries may be trained to prepare some basic legal papers and letters, they generally have little or no knowledge of particular legal doctrines, statutes or regulations, and typically have no training or experience in conducting legal research or drafting legal documents, pleadings, motions, briefs or other court papers. On the other hand, a typical paralegal in the United States can perform all of these tasks under an attorney or law office. Paralegals bill for their time at a higher rate than legal secretaries.\n\nMost paralegals have completed a formal paralegal education program. However, some paralegals have only on-the-job paralegal training. Formal paralegal education programs may result in a certificate, diploma, higher diploma, advanced diploma, associate degree, bachelor's degree, master's degree, or paralegal certificate. Many paralegals have completed all of their training before entering the profession, while others have completed their education while working their way up from the mailroom in a law firm. Many paralegals take Continuing Legal Education (CLE) courses to fulfill the requirements of their firm, state, or association.\n\nThe paralegal phenomenon is a legal-economics argument in all jurisdictions – they exist precisely because they are not lawyers and thus can do the work much more cheaply. Other than expertise, the main constraint on what work a paralegal can or cannot do tends to be local rules that reserve (i.e. give a monopoly to) particular activities to lawyers. Each jurisdiction tends to have its own \"reserved activities list\".\n\nAccording to United States law, there are five specific acts which only a licensed attorney can perform:\n\n\nBeyond the five acts above, the paralegal can perform practically any other task, including legal research, legal writing, factual investigation, preparation of exhibits, and the day-to-day tasks of case management. The key is that attorneys are entirely responsible for the actions of their paralegals, and, by signing and filing court documents drafted by paralegals (or law clerks), attorneys make those documents their own.\n\nIn the United States, the need for accredited qualifications and bar licensure limits the number of licensed attorneys. At the same time, there are many legal tasks for which a bar license is unnecessary but some amount of legal training is helpful. In order to lower costs, businesses may choose to employ paralegals to undertake such tasks instead of a more expensive lawyer. Paralegal time is typically billed at only a fraction of what a lawyer charges, and thus to the paralegal has fallen those substantive and procedural tasks which are too complex for legal secretaries (whose time is not billed) but for which lawyers can no longer bill. This in turn makes lawyers more efficient by allowing them to concentrate solely on the substantive legal issues of the case, while paralegals have become the \"case managers.\"\n\nThe growing demand of paralegal professionals at a very rapid rate has resulted in schools and colleges catering to such education popping up everywhere. It has been found through a survey that currently 50,000 students are enrolled in paralegal education courses. The American Association for Paralegal Education (AAPE) itself has more than 450 members; 260 of them are ABA-approved. Seminars and events are being held by various institutes to help broaden the knowledge base of the paralegal service providers and the importance associated with it. Although the nation is experiencing a recession, the paralegal profession continues to grow. Law firms and legal departments are cutting costs and increasing access to legal services by hiring paralegals.\n\nThe United Kingdom has gone one step further. Much legal work by lawyers for the poorer elements of society is legally aided, or paid for by the state. As overall costs have risen due to more people than ever engaging with the law, the government has reduced such legal aid. As a result, the work has become uneconomic for many and they have ceased doing it. Paralegal advisory firms are stepping in to fill the gap.\n\nThe increased use of paralegals has slowed the rising cost of legal services and serves in some small measure (in combination with contingency fees and insurance) to keep the cost of legal services within the reach of the regular population. However, one commentator has warned that \"our profession makes a serious error if it uses legal assistants only as economic tools.\"\n\nSome attorneys who practice in fields involving medical care have only a limited knowledge of healthcare and medical concepts and terminology. Therefore, Legal Medical Consultants which are professional physicians, paramedics, nurses and respiratory therapists, have become fully trained as paralegals in the manner described above and assist behind the scenes on these cases, in addition to serving as expert witnesses from time to time.\n\nAustralia has a distinct regime for the utiliziation of paralegals. According to one paralegal studies scholar:\n\nFurthermore, Australian paralegals have \"little formal recognition of, or status accorded\" them, yet they \"require specialist education.\"\n\nIn Canada, paralegals (except in Ontario) are generally trained assistants who assist lawyers, and work under the supervision of lawyers. Paralegals are not regulated by legislation (except in Ontario) and are not professionals in their own right. Some provinces (such as British Columbia) allow lawyers to designate certain paralegals to provide additional services to clients. However, lawyers remain fully responsible for all action or omission of the designated paralegals. \n\nIn Ontario, paralegals are licensed by the Law Society of Ontario. Ontario is with Washington State the only jurisdiction in the western hemisphere where paralegals are licensed and the profession is regulated as officers of the court. Licensed paralegals operate within a defined scope of practice, representing clients in matters such as provincial offenses (traffic tickets, etc.), immigration, landlord & tenant disputes, labor law, small claims court (under $25,000), and specific criminal matters. They are currently not permitted to represent clients in family court or wills and estates. By virtue of their office, licensed paralegals are commissioners for taking affidavits (swearing oaths).\n\nIn the province of Ontario paralegals are a regulated body within the legal system. Paralegals become commissioners upon licensing, and may become non-lawyer notaries, Crown prosecutor, municipal prosecutor or a justice of the peace if appointed.\n\nOntario recently became the first jurisdiction in North America to provide for the licensing of independent paralegals. This task will be the responsibility of the Law Society of Ontario (founded in 1797), which already regulates Ontario's 40,000 or so lawyers. Aspiring paralegals must complete an accredited educational program and complete a licensing exam. The Society will also be responsible for disciplining paralegals who do not conform to rules of professional conduct, known as the Paralegal Rules of Conduct.\n\nIn Ontario, as of December 2017, licensed paralegals are now endorsed and recognized as officers of the court. \n\nThe Law Society began issuing the first paralegal licenses to grandparent applicants who fulfilled all the necessary licensing requirements (including insurance) in April 2008. Paralegals who provide legal services to the public must carry professional liability insurance in accordance with By-Law 6, Part II, section 12 (1). Licensees must provide written proof of their compliance with this requirement to carry mandatory insurance before they begin providing legal services, as well as on an annual basis. Paralegal services may be provided via a sole proprietorship, partnership or professional corporation. Licensees are strongly encouraged to seek professional advice on the best business structure for their particular situations. A paralegal license allows a paralegal to independently represent clients in provincial offences court, summary conviction criminal court, small claims court and administrative tribunals such as the Financial Services Commission of Ontario or the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board. The role that a paralegal has in the United States is similar to the role of a law clerk or legal assistant in Ontario. Many paralegals in Ontario work in the areas of permitted practice for paralegals and also work alongside lawyers in areas of practice that are only permitted to be practiced by lawyers. It is illegal for paralegals in Ontario to independently practice in an area of law that is permitted only for lawyers. An example of this is family law, or an indictable offence in criminal law.\n\nAll lawyers and paralegals who practice law and provide legal services in Ontario, are required to complete the CPD program. Continuing professional development (CPD) is the maintenance and enhancement of a lawyer or paralegal's professional knowledge, skills, attitudes and professionalism throughout the individual's career. It is a positive tool that benefits lawyers and paralegals and is an essential component of the commitment they make to the public to practice law or provide legal services competently and ethically.\n\nIn Japan, the institution of exists, and functions similarly to paralegals. Scriveners perform legal work, above the level of secretary but below the level of attorney, and may be attached to an attorney's office or operate independently. Scriveners may represent clients in some low-level matters, but not in more advanced stages of litigation. As with lawyers in Japan, scriveners are regulated and must pass an exam.\n\nIn South Africa, legal assistants or paralegals must have extensive knowledge of the law and the administration of justice. Their duties may include: liaising with clients of their employers to assist in solving legal problems, legal research, preparing cases for court and liaising with the public. This programme is uniquely designed to impart a comprehensive overview of all aspects of paralegal specialisation and an understanding of individual rights and the rights of others. Paralegal offers the use and application of skills and competencies related to Criminal Law and Procedure, Civil Litigation, Wills and Estates, Dispute Resolution, Legal Advise, Property Law and Conveyancing as well as Legal Office Practice Management and Debt Collecting/Counselling.\n\nParalegals in South Africa are hired mostly by Legal Aid South Africa, big corporations, Patent law firms, legal firms, Estate agents, Government Departments etc. to provide legal support to those corporate world. Legal support may be by legal research, investigation/inspectors, legal advice or legal assistance. Certification may be acquired at: Tshwane University of Technology National Diploma in Legal Assistance/Paralegal, University Of Johanesburg Diploma in Paralegal, UNISA National Diploma in Law, South African School of Paralegals, Intec College Diploma in Paralegal, South African Law School Qualification in Paralegal, Damelin College Paralegal, Boston City Campus Paralegal certificate. Salaries range from R60,000 to R450,000 per year depending on experience.\nNewly established law firms in South Africa are likely to hire qualified Paralegals with 3 year qualification in Legal Studies to provide Legal assistance. Though the South African Law Society and The Minister of Justice do want to come with regulation to guide paralegals in South Africa just like Canada and the USA, many practicing attorneys and Advocates did disprove in many instances however the new legislation is pending.\n\nIn South Korea a similar system to the Japanese exists, and is known as beopmusa (Hangul: , Hanja: ).\n\nThe original concept of paralegals in the UK started with the Paralegal Association in the mid-1980s (now the National Association of Licensed Paralegals). However the oldest incorporated professional body for paralegals in the UK who set the competency standards for paralegals and legal secretaries, issue legal qualifications, and support, represent and promote paralegals is the Institute Of Paralegals.\n\nBoth the Association and Institute have similar roles in recognising and registering Paralegals but do not always agree on all the principles of practice.\n\nHowever, it is only recently that paralegals have begun to be seen as more than merely assistants to qualified lawyers. They are now a newly emergent, and increasingly distinct, group of legal professionals.\n\nDue to a lack of metrics it is unclear exactly how many paralegals there are in the United Kingdom. The Office of National Statistics and the register of Standard Occupational Classification estimate that there are currently 76,000 mid-skilled “legal associate professionals.” Research published in 2014 by the Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR) predicts that this figure is set to grow by 17% within the next decade. Moreover, it is estimated that there are now almost 4,000 government registered/regulated paralegal advisory firms offering services that would previously have been offered only by lawyers.This is because most legal work in the United Kingdom is deregulated and therefore there is nothing to stop anyone from opening their own paralegal law firm.\n\nAs the term ‘paralegal’ is not protected like the term ‘solicitor’ anyone may call himself/herself a paralegal without any qualification or registrations. Professional bodies are lobbying for this to change and the term ‘paralegal’ to become a protected title.\n\nParalegals in England and Wales may only offer limited legal advice, as may any person, with the following exceptions strictly forbidden:\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Solicitors Act 1974 reserves certain activities for solicitors. Broadly, these include:\n\nParalegals technically have very limited rights to conduct litigation/rights of audience before courts/tribunals. In practice though many appear in courts and particularly tribunals at all levels as assistants.\n\nParalegals also act as Police Station Representatives if they are accredited, giving general advice to clients held in police custody.\n\nScotland has separate legal jurisdiction from the rest of the United Kingdom. The term \"paralegal\" came into use from the 1980s. There have always been individuals undertaking legal work but not qualified as a solicitor but they would have had other titles such as 'legal assistant'. From the early 1990s the term \"paralegal\" became more common. In 1993 Scottish Paralegals Association was founded. It is a voluntary body whose remit is to promote the interests of paralegals in Scotland. From 1991 Scotland's colleges began to offer paralegal qualifications, awarded by the Scottish Qualification Authority, namely the Higher National Diploma and Certificate in Legal Services. They were offered by Central College of Commerce, Stevenson College and Dundee College. As a result of the efforts of the Scottish Paralegal Association and in particular its president Christine Lambie, in 2010 the Law Society of Scotland, the solicitors' professional body, instituted the Law Society of Scotland Registered Paralegal scheme. This was a voluntary scheme providing a professional status for high quality paralegals. Around 400 paralegals, mainly individuals who had come through the ranks in legal firms, joined the scheme. From 2010 Scottish Qualification Authority and Stirling University offered qualifications for individuals wishing to enter the Registered Paralegal profession. Paralegals qualify in particular legal domains, e.g., Domestic Conveyancing; and Wills & Executries. In 2017 the name of the scheme was changed to Law Society of Scotland Accredited Paralegal scheme.\nThe largest number of paralegals in the UK are represented by the Chartered Institute of Legal Executives (CILEx). Unlike other paralegal bodies CILEx is an Approved Regulator, meaning all its members are independently regulated in the public interest and must comply with a code of conduct, including all its paralegal members. CILEx is also the only body that provides paralegals with a limited progression route to lawyer status.\n\nCILEx provides a non-University route to qualification as a non-qualified lawyer, with the majority of its members learning on-the-job and working as paralegals. It is open to those with or without law degrees, and allows paralegals to progress through to ultimately become fully qualified lawyers, partners, advocates, coroners and judges, subject to achieving the correct level of qualifications, skills, and experience.\n\nSince 1994 City and Guilds, in association with CILEx, has offered the UK's leading range of nationally and internationally approved qualifications for paralegals and legal secretaries, which have been taken by over 20,000 people. They offer a Level 2 Award/Certificate/Diploma in Legal Studies qualification. This provides the underpinning knowledge which will help in day-to-day work and will also allows progression onto the CILEx route to becoming a lawyer. The qualification is divided into units and is assessed by way of assignments and a multiple-choice test. A Level 3 Diploma in Vocational Paralegal Studies qualification is also available, and this is equivalent to A-level standard. The qualification is divided into units and again, is assessed by way of assignments. The qualifications are also recognised by the CILEx as a route into their membership grades.\n\nThe Institute of Paralegals (IOP) administer a Route to Qualification: the nationally recognised career path for professional paralegals. They also set and administer Competency Standards for paralegals and legal secretaries.\nThe Institute of Paralegals (IOP) are:\n\nNALP (National Association of Licensed Paralegals) is an awarding body for paralegal qualifications, recognised as an awarding organisation by Ofqual, the regulator of qualifications in England and Wales. NALP offers self-regulation and Licensing for paralegals in England & Wales. NALP's objective is to raise the profile of paralegals in the UK and has dedicated itself to the promoting the status of paralegals and paralegal training in the United Kingdom and abroad. NALP offers affordable accessible training and qualifications at all levels. NALP is a not for profit company limited by guarantee.\n\nThere are various levels of certification and membership according to the level of training, qualification and experience. To become a Licensed Paralegal a person should have an acceptable qualification in law, e.g., the Association's Diploma in Paralegal Studies, ILEX, Law Degree or HND (plus a procedural law qualification) or any other qualification deemed suitable, and who can satisfy the other criteria laid down by the Association namely: knowledge, competence, dedication, character requirements and continuous professional development.\n\nNALPs mission is to re-enforce and increase its position as the leading professional organisation catering for the career paralegal not only within the legal profession but also within commerce, industry and the private and public sectors and will strive to ensure the proper recognition of its members as an integral part of the legal profession by the quality of its qualifications, professional development and the standards of behaviour and its regulatory powers laid down for its members. It will encourage, promote and develop the role and practice of the paralegal and represent the best interests of its members.\n\nThe Institute of Paralegals (IOP) is an incorporated professional body for paralegals in the UK. A not-for-profit organisation, they set the competency standards for paralegals and legal secretaries, issue legal qualifications, and support, represent and promote paralegals.\nThe National Association of Licensed Paralegals(NALP) was established in 1987 and is the professional self-regulatory governing body for accredited paralegals. Access into the profession can either be with a law degree or without. Those who are already graduates can take The Post Graduate Diploma in Paralegal Practice (PPC) (similar to the LPC for solicitors). Those that have no previous qualification can do the Diploma in Paralegal Studies. The NALP is an awarding body regulated by OFQUAL and is also a member of the National Federation of Paralegal Associations (based in the US).\n\nAs a not-for-profit professional body incorporated by guarantee, they were formed in 2003. They were granted institute status by the UK government in 2005, with the support of, amongst others, The Law Society of England & Wales, the Bar Council, Citizens Advice and the Crown Prosecution Service, all of whom recognised the need for the developing paralegal profession to have a representative body.\n\nIOP offer: The Registered Paralegal, Certified Paralegal and Qualified Paralegal designations and believe these are not a 'licence to practice' as a paralegal. IOP state: \"There is no such as a 'licensing scheme' operating in England and Wales. Anyone implying otherwise (i.e. that you need to do a particular course to qualify) is misrepresenting the position. You become a paralegal simply by getting a job as a paralegal. The majority of paralegals still do not have any formal legal qualifications. The only paralegals needing prior permission before practising are paralegal law firms or paralegal sole practitioners who come under the remit of the Ministry of Justice Or Office of the Immigration Services Commissioner.\"\n\nThe National Association of Licensed Paralegals is working to improve recognition for paralegals and has done so for nearly 24 years, having introduced qualifications and standards and self-regulation to the profession and is recognised by The Law Society of England as the professional body for paralegals in England & Wales.\n\nIn the United Kingdom paralegal salaries in law firms can range from around £15,000 in some rural or suburban areas but may reach as high as £60 – £80,000 for the most senior in the larger city firms and some PLCs.\nA paralegal can also work as a freelance offering their services to solicitors performing tasks such assisting Counsel at court and taking notes in court and presenting applications to District Judges in chambers. They can be paid on a daily or hourly rate earning up to £60 – £260 per day.\n\nIn the United States, paralegals originated as assistants to lawyers at a time when only lawyers offered legal services. In those jurisdictions where the local legal profession/judiciary is involved in paralegal recognition/accreditation, the profession of paralegal still basically refers to those people working under the direct supervision of a lawyer. The profession of paralegal varies greatly between the states, because some states do require paralegals to be licensed. In other jurisdictions however, such as the United Kingdom, the lack of local legal profession/judiciary oversight means that the definition of paralegal encompasses non-lawyers doing legal work, regardless of whom they do it for. Although most jurisdictions recognize paralegals to a greater or lesser extent, there is no international consistency as to definition, job-role, status, terms and conditions of employment, training, regulation or anything else and so each jurisdiction must be looked at individually.\n\nIn the United States, there is no such thing as a paralegal \"licensed\" by a government body; rather, paralegals can be \"registered,\" \"certified,\" or \"certificated\" by private organizations.\n\nThere are two major national organizations that offer professional certification to paralegals who meet voluntary regulation standards: the National Association of Legal Assistants (NALA) established in 1976 and the National Federation of Paralegal Associations (NFPA) established in 1996.\n\nBoth NALA and the NFPA offer professional certification exams that should not be confused with a paralegal certificate offered by an officially accredited college or university.\n\nNALA offers its Certified Legal Assistant or Certified Paralegal examination, a comprehensive two-day examination that covers the following subjects: Communications, Ethics, Legal Research, Judgment and Analytical Ability, American Legal System and four sub-sections selected by the applicants from a list of nine substantive areas of the law. These sub-section tests cover general knowledge of the following practice areas: Administrative Law, Bankruptcy, Business Organizations, Civil Litigation, Contracts, Criminal Law and Procedure, Estate, Planning and Probate, Family Law and Real Estate. After successful completion of the examination, NALA awards the paralegal the \"CLA\" (Certified Legal Assistant) or \"CP\" (Certified Paralegal) designation. Both the \"CLA\" and \"CP\" designations are proprietary trademarks owned by NALA. Paralegals who have attained further education and received a paralegal certificate are referred to as \"Certificated\" unless they have passed the examination and have been awarded the \"Certified\" designation. Additionally, those paralegals who receive the \"Certified Paralegal\" designation then have the opportunity to earn the \"Advanced Certified Paralegal\" designation. There is a 45 to 50 percent pass rate for persons taking the NALA exams.\n\nThe NFPA offers its non-accredited Paralegal Advanced Competency Exam, which is a four-hour exam on a variety of legal topics; those who pass that exam can call themselves PACE-Registered Paralegals and display the \"RP\" designation. NFPA’s core purpose is to advance the paralegal profession and is committed to the profession’s Code of Ethics.\n\nSome states have considered the licensure of paralegals. Whether paralegals should be licensed or certified is one of the most important issues for paralegals today.\n\nThe greatest differences between lawyers and paralegals are that lawyers give legal advice, can set fees, appear as counsel of record in court, and sign pleadings (and other court documents) in a representative capacity. A paralegal who attempts to do any of these acts will be in violation of the unauthorized practice of law statutes in most U.S. states. Paralegals are responsible for handling tasks such as legal writing, research, and other forms of documentation for the lawyers for whom they work.\n\nParalegals are restrained from exercising independence and prohibited from providing even basic legal advice to consumers of legal advice. In her book, \"Access to Justice\", Stanford law professor Deborah Rhode states: \"Over four-fifths of surveyed attorneys have supported prosecution of lay practitioners, and the profession has repeatedly blocked licensing proposals that would enable independent paralegals to offer routine services. Many local, state and national bar associations have recently launched initiatives to broaden the definition, raise the penalties, and increase the enforcement of unauthorized practice prohibitions.\"\n\nIn some areas, legal document assistants actually advertise themselves as paralegals. Many states, including Florida, have enacted laws or bar rules which require any person referring to himself or herself as a paralegal to work under the supervision of a licensed attorney. This rule would prohibit those individuals working as \"independent paralegals\" from using the title \"paralegal\".\n\nIn the United States, as of May 2012, the median annual salary for a paralegal was US$46,990. Paralegals working for the U.S. federal government average around $65,000 per year while state and local government paralegals earn around $45,000 to $50,000.\n\nParalegals have been used in the United States for almost 50 years. A law firm in Los Angeles used a paralegal to prepare Estate Planning Documents such as Will and Trusts beginning in 1969.\n\nSeveral state governments have designated a \"Paralegal Day\", which is not the same day everywhere. in particular New York's governor David Paterson, Michigan's governor Jennifer M. Granholm, South Carolina, Idaho's governor James E. Risch and the Texas Legislature have designated Paralegal Day in their respective states. California, Connecticut, Ohio, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and Utah also have a Paralegal Day.\n\nThere are a variety of services available to the general public depending on the State of residence. These companies have been known as Paralegal Services until they were required to change their names. These companies are now typically known to the general public as Court Document Preparers or Court Forms Providers. The State of Florida has numerous companies that prepare court documents for a variety of issues, such as Divorce, Bankruptcy, Paternity, Custody, Modification of Child Support, Name Change, Wills, Power of Attorney, Quit Claim Deeds, etc. If you do not have the ability to remedy your situation because of the high cost fees of any attorney a Court Document Preparer can save thousands of dollars. Such document preparers, however, frequently come under the scrutiny of various state bar organizations by overstepping the basic document preparation and engaging in what could be considered \"unauthorized practice of law.\" Such document preparation is indeed cost-saving for those who truly want to represent themselves in a legal matter, but want to pay someone to create the required documents. If problems arise in the legal case, however, the person who hired the paralegal service needs to understand that there is typically no legal liability on the part of the paralegal service and that such institutions cannot be sued for legal malpractice. Again, the philosophy is that the person utilizing such service is representing himself or herself in all legal matters and merely hiring a document preparer.\n\nIn California, under Business and Professions Code § 6450, a paralegal must have at least one of the following:\n\nUp until Business and Professions Code § 6450 was signed into law by Governor Gray Davis in 2000, there was little regulation of paralegals in California. One of the purposes of regulation under Business and Professions Code § 6450 was to shut down the paralegals who were providing self-help legal services to consumers. There had been relatively few consumer complaints against paralegals; instead most of the complaints were from lawyers who urged the California State Bar to police the unauthorized practice of law (UPL).\n\nIn response, the State Bar appointed a Public Protection Committee to look at the L.A. bar's claim. Then, \"in 1988, the Public Protection Committee unanimously recommended that the California legislature completely abolish the state's UPL laws. It further concluded that independent paralegals should be allowed to provide all types of legal services as long as they are registered with a state agency and disclose their non-lawyer status to all customers.\" After many local bar associations reacted in dismay, \"The California Bar then appointed a third group (The Commission on Legal Technicians) to restudy the issue. This commission largely agreed with the conclusions of its predecessors and recommended that non-lawyers be authorized by the California Supreme Court to deliver legal services in several major areas (bankruptcy, family, immigration, and landlord-tenant), under the terms of a licensing scheme that would be supervised by an independent state agency.\"\n\nThis development culminated in some paralegals being forced to give up the title paralegal for Legal Document Assistant (LDA) in order to administer legal services directly to the public in the allowed areas under California Bus & Prof. Code § 6400. Paralegals who are members of professional associations are also bound by those associations' codes of ethics many of which include sections prescribing that members not offer legal services directly to the public without the supervision of an attorney or law firm.\n\nUnlike nurses and physician assistants, paralegals have not caught the popular imagination and rarely are seen or mentioned in fictional or non-fiction legal television programs, or in legal fiction in print. There are however exceptions.\n\nThe most famous is probably Erin Brockovich, a real legal clerk whose participation in a toxic tort case became a major motion picture. In the movie \"Eagle Eye\" (2008) starring Shia LaBeouf and Michelle Monaghan, Monaghan plays a single mom who works as a paralegal.\n\nAnother notable exception is the character Della Street, from the \"Perry Mason\" novel, television and movie series. Although Mason identifies Della as \"my confidential secretary\", the projects he assigns her are entirely consistent with the law office work performed by experienced paralegals.\n\nAllison DuBois, the lead character in \"Medium\" played by Patricia Arquette, was in training to become a paralegal in addition to her consultation work with the Phoenix, Arizona District Attorney's office.\n\nJohn Grisham includes many paralegals in his novels; for example, Rudy Baylor (the main character in \"The Rainmaker\") works briefly as a paralegal – and his associate Deck Shifflet subsequently becomes Rudy's paralegal when he starts his own firm.\n\n\"\", an esoteric cartoon comedy, features a paralegal in the form of Avenger, Harvey Birdman's eagle, who is usually seen managing files, preparing and presenting documents to the attorneys, and drafting letters to clients. Avenger will usually accompany the charismatic, yet often underprepared, Birdman into court, and whisper case information and advice into his ear. Despite not knowing English, he is by far the most competent employee of Sebben & Sebben.\n\nFX's \"The Riches\" in which Doug Rich, a con-artist played by Eddie Izzard, impersonates a lawyer at a cutthroat real estate development company. Rich's apparent lack of legal knowledge is often compensated by Aubrey McDonald, a highly skilled paralegal who manages to help guide the undereducated anti-hero through more than a few sticky situations.\n\nUSA Network's \"Suits\" features a young paralegal named Rachel, played by Meghan Markle, who greatly assists a young aspiring lawyer with various research and otherwise. She is a highly respected member of the firm and is considered to be of help to many of her co-workers. Rachel's desire one day to become a lawyer is one of the major stories of the series. As paralegal, she lives between a lot of appreciation for her hard work and a constant reminder (going both from herself and other people) that she's not a \"real\" lawyer at the end.\n\nIn Eoin Colfer's book \"The Supernaturalists\", paralegals are lawyers that double as mercenaries to apprehend and then prosecute offenders for the person, or more common, company who hired them.\n\nIn the musical \"Dear Evan Hansen\", Evan Hansen's mother, Heidi, is studying to become a paralegal.\n\nA few current and former paralegals have also ventured into politics, including Amanda Reeve (Arizona State Legislature) and Michael Strautmanis (friend of 44th president of The United States Barack Obama and former member of White House Staff).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19128970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19128970", "title": "People's joint association", "text": "People's joint association\n\nPeople's joint association(also \"Manmingongdonghue\"(만민공동회) and \"Kwanmingongdonghoe\"(관민공동회)) was a civic group and congress of mass people in Korean Empire, 1897. a subordinate office of Independence Club.\n\nfirst People's joint association was congress was held by Independence Club. and latter part congress was Korean peoples autonomy. founder of Seo Jae-pil, Yun Chi-ho, Lee Sang-jae.\n\nfounder of Seo Jae-pil, Yun Chi-ho, Lee Sang-jae, there was a member of Independence club. also Manmingongdonghoi's vip member was Seo Jae-pil, Yu Gil-chun, Yun Chi-ho, Ahn Chang-ho, Lee Sang-jae, Syngman Rhee ather.\n\nManmingongdongheo was first held on 1896. On March 10, 1897, criticizing an intervention of Russia. Ten thousand Seoul citizens attended the congress. Within ten days, the Korean Empire government agreed the decisions of Manmingongdonghoe and Russia conceded to Korean order. The congress grew more and more, and insisted on various rights of people and protection of concessions from the great Powers.\n\nfirst congress was Independence Club also latter part congress was Korean peoples autonomy. \nOn October 12, the congress succeed in founding a reform-minded government composed of innovative officials such as Mihn Yong-hwan and Park Jeong-yang. The new government agreed to establish a national assembly. However pro-Russians and conservatives who hated Manmingongdonghoe, spread a rumor that the congress will revolt and expel Emperor Gojong. Gojong surprised and ordered the troops to dissolve the congress.\n\nManmingongdonghoe spread thoughts of human rights, democracy and patriotism among Korean people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2430742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2430742", "title": "Personal representative", "text": "Personal representative\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, a personal representative or legal personal representative is a person appointed by a court to administer the estate of another person. If the estate being administered is that of a deceased person, the personal representative is either an executor if the deceased person left a will or an administrator of an intestate estate. In other situations, the personal representative may be a guardian or trustee, or other position. As a fiduciary, a personal representative has the duties of loyalty, candor or honesty, and good faith. In the United States, \"punctilio of honor\", or the highest standard of honor, is the level of scrupulousness that a fiduciary must abide by.\n\nIn either case of a deceased estate, a probate court of competent jurisdiction issues a finding of fact, including that a will has or has not been filed, and that an executor or administrator has been appointed. These are often referred to as \"letters testamentary\", \"letters of administration\" or \"letters of representation\", as the case may be. These documents, with the appropriate death certificate, are often the only license a person needs to do the banking, stock trading, real estate transactions, and other actions necessary to marshal and dispose of the deceased's estate in the name of the estate itself.\n\nThere are a number of types of personal representatives, including:\n\nIn the U.S., the Office for the Administrative Review of the Detention of Enemy Combatants appointed a Personal Representative (CSRT) to meet with each captive who was still being held in extrajudicial detention in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba, in August 2004, when the Supreme Court forced the Department of Defense to start convening Combatant Status Review Tribunals. Such a personal representative is more like a \"guardian ad litem\".\n"}
{"id": "3605920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605920", "title": "Political agenda", "text": "Political agenda\n\nA political agenda is a list of subjects or problems to which government officials as well as individuals outside the government are paying serious attention at any given time. It is most often shaped by political and policy elites, but can also be influenced by non-governmental activist groups, private sector lobbyists, think tanks, courts, and world events. Media coverage has also been linked to the success of the rise of political parties and their ability to get their ideas on the agenda. Although the media does often have an effect on the political agenda, these results are not always immediate. When there is a great time difference between decisions and results it is called a political agenda lag.\n\nPolitical agenda is also strongly tied to state centralization. The more centralized a state, the more citizens will likely try and affect the political agenda. For this reason, many political elites tend to prefer a non-centralized state where they can maintain more control over the political agenda.\n\nThe “Political Agenda Effect” asserts that when citizens from different backgrounds get together, their agenda will change in a way that takes their demands away from elites to focus more on public goods. The “Escalation Effect” contends that if citizens get together, this will induce elites to form national resources to fight against them and maintain the political agenda the way they desire.\n\nThe impact agenda is the increasing requirements for researchers to prove that there are real world impacts from their research. It is related to the political agenda because often governments measure a positive real world impact only in terms of the political agenda they have. When it comes to building the political agenda, there are three main models which are commonly cited: the outside initiative model, mobilization model, and inside initiative model.\n\nThe political agenda is essentially defined as what governmental officials find important to discuss. Those closest to the policy process have the biggest control on what issues reach the political agenda. They are the ones with the most power to decide which ideas or issues have the most importance, and which ideas or issues are unimportant. For example, the President of the United States, has the power to make treaties, appoint ambassadors, appoint judges of the supreme court etc. These types of powers ultimately shape what voices are present in parliament and subsequently what issues reach the political agenda.\n\nSome non-governmental activist groups, such as neighborhood associations, advocate for civic beautification or improvement of communities. Many other important activist groups, like those oriented towards human rights and social justice, campaign for broad ideals. These groups work to put continuous pressure on government leaders that shape the agenda. If enough pressure is exerted onto political leaders through activist groups, it can change which issues and ideas ultimately reach the political agenda. For example the American Bar Association (ABA) and the American Medical Association (AMA), usually try to influence politicians on professional jobs.\n\nPrivate sector lobbyists affect the political agenda by influencing the decisions and ideas of political leaders. When large-scale private corporations have a vested influence in a policy area, they can use their money and power to try to either keep or eliminate an issue from the political agenda. For example, private food lobbyist spent $101 Million in 2015 to fight against GMO Labeling and its prevalence on the political agenda.\n\nThe power of private sector lobbyists is made even stronger with the trend of revolving door lobbyists. This is when those who previous worked within government and gained knowledge of it, then enter the private sector to lobby. When those people who once served as public officials go into the private sector, they can work to influence their former colleagues. Stern’s study in 2009 found that since 1998, 43 percent of the 198 members of US Congress who left government to join private life have registered to lobby.\n\nThink tanks are in need of financial backing. Most times wealthy and established investors who wish to advance a certain idea or cause onto the political agenda establish them. These issues or causes may include: economics, taxes, foreign policy, global development, education, children and families, or healthcare. Examples of think tanks that promote a certain political perspective onto the political agenda are the Heritage Foundation and American Enterprise Institute which are highly conservative. On the other side, the Center for American Progress, are more liberal with their motives.\n\nWhen the courts make a decision that changes a previous line of thinking, that idea immediately is on the political agenda because laws and public administration must change accordingly. The Mabo decision by the High Court in 1992 which overturned previous laws about establishing native titles is an example of this.\n\nWhen something unexpected happens it can force the political agenda to change immediately. For example, when Hurricane Katrina or the World Trade Centre attacks occurred they were unexpected but priority changing events. When big world events (i.e. disasters/tragedies) occur they are often followed by a policy response as well, and so what issues and ideas reach the political agenda are sometimes changed simply due to what happened in the world.\n\nThere are three main theories on how political agendas are set and which groups have the greatest say in the decisions regarding them. They are; the pluralist theory, the elitist theory, and the institutional theory.\n\nThe pluralist theory suggests that policy-making is divided into several categories or “arenas”. Groups that do not have any power in one particular arena, most often have power in another arena. There is a marketplace for competing policies, and interests, and any group may win the arena. Elections often determine who gets to decide on each public policy.\n\nIn the elitist theory a main power elite dominates the entire agenda setting process to serve their own interests. These interests hold the power in all the arenas and they always win every election. There are very few people that actually organize into separate interest groups. In order to retain power and control, the main elite works at keeping key issues off the agenda. This suppression of issues threatens democracy.\n\nThis theory believes that legislative committees and bureaucratic institutions are the main controllers of the agenda. Because social interests and issues have much impact on what is considered by the legislative committees and bureaucratic institutions, individuals do not benefit from agenda decisions. This type of system leads to more conservative policy decisions than those under the pluralist scenario, but far more conservative than under the elite scenario.\n\nThe media is tightly linked to what issues gain importance on the political agenda. It affects what ideas become widespread and therefore what is demanded from politicians. Numerous studies have done research to prove this:\n\nHajo B Boomgaarden and Rens Vliegenthart write on the media’s relation to political agenda in their article \"Explaining the rise of anti-immigrant parties: The role of news media content\". In this article they study the media coverage on anti-immigration in the Netherlands for the period of 1990 to 2002 and found that it directly relates to the success of anti-immigration populist parties such as Centrumdemocraten (CD), the Centrum Partij (CP), and the Lijst Pim Fortuyn (LPF) during the same time period. Their analysis used the importance of news media as the explanatory factor of why anti-immigration gained prevalence on the political agenda, while controlling for other real world factors and developments at the time such as the influence of the economy, immigration, or the leadership of then President Pim Fortuyn. This was done by conducting a content analysis of five of the most popular Dutch national newspapers. The empirical results showed support of anti-immigration was around 4% in 1994, and rose to 16% in 2001 during the same time that media coverage of anti-immigration was at its peak. This means, the test showed that media content can be held at least partly responsible for the rise of anti-immigrant parties in the Netherlands and the changing of the political agenda in this way.\n\nA similar study done by Julie Sevenans, Stefaan Walgrave & Gwendolyn Joanna Epping compares the behavior of politicians in comparison to the media on a global scale. The study was completed during one week, in Flemish Belgium. Every day, eight news outlets were studied and fully coded for a total of 2448 cases. The study looked at individual politicians cognitive attention for these specific news stories, via a face-to face survey of MPs to see if they recalled, hadtalked about, or considered the content covered in these news outlets. The results showed that the prominence and usefulness of a news story affect whether a news story is noticed, talked about or considered by MPs. This work showed that political agenda-setting effects most likely begin from the selective adoption on the cognitive, and individual level of MPs. Politicians both consume the news much how regular citizens by paying more attention the most prominent stories. However, they are also selective in that they pay the most attention to news that is political in nature or match their interests. More specifically, politicians pay more attention to: news that is more prominent, about the region their parliament is responsible for, issues they are personally specialized in, news about issues that are salient for their party, and news about politics. All of these claims were confirmed by statistical analysis. Relating to the political agenda, the implications of the fact that MPs care so much about media reports are twofold: some MPs may think media coverage is reflective of public opinion, while others may feel the media affect what the public sees as important. In either case, politicians are interpreting that the public cares about major news stories and taking this into account when setting the political agenda.\n\nGeorge Edwards and Dan Wood conducted a time series analysis of presidential, mass media and congressional attention to five political issues: crime, education, health care, U.S.-Soviet relations, and the Arab-Israeli conflict. The end conclusion was that most of the time presidents react corresponding to fluctuations in media attention on an issue. It too showed a relationship between the media and political agenda.\n\nAlthough the media does often have an effect on the political agenda, these results are not always immediate. Dearing and Rogers (1996) conducted a study on this and concluded that time lags from what is in the media transferring in the political agenda can take up to a few weeks to several months.\n\nThe political agenda is tied to state centralization because the more centralized a state is, the more political elites have control over the political agenda. However if a state is too centralized, the more the public may feel they need they need to advocate to change the political agenda as well. The Political Agenda can be further broken down into two concepts: the political agenda effect, and the escalation effect.\n\nThe political agenda effect states that state centralization alters the dynamics of political action and conflict in society. State centralization, which involves elites coordinating nationally, induces citizens to organize nationally as well, rather than at the local or the “parochial” level. When this happens and citizens from different regions, sectors, interests, backgrounds, or ethnicity all join together to organize and discuss certain policies their agenda will change in a direction that switches their demands from power-holders to focus more on public goods. In this case then a state that has a higher level of centralization it may incite citizens to try and change the agenda themselves. Therefore, political elites might instead prefer a non-centralized state where they can still maintain more control over the political agenda. Elites may strategically opt for a non-centralized state in order to induce the citizens to not organize nationally and thus avert the political agenda effect.\n\nThe “Escalation Effect” contends that if citizens get together, it will force elites to form national resources to fight against them and maintain the political agenda the way they desire. In the case that citizens band together in a national organization, this will entice political elites to also form a national organization and pool their resources together in attempt to fight against the citizens. National organizations created by citizens might have a lower probability of success in comparison to organizations formed by elites, but in either case they will still indirectly benefit the weaker citizen groups, who would have otherwise remained unorganized. An escalation of the conflict can be seen as ensuing in this scenario.\n\nThe beginnings of the concept of the “impact agenda” can be traced to William Waldegrave’s 1993 white paper “Realizing Our Potential”. The impact agenda describes how there are increasing requirements set out by the state for researchers to relate their studies to real world issues in order to validate their research and access government funding. This is shown by the fact that the Biological and Sciences Research Council announced in 2012 that it expects its institutes to detail impact. This idea has been heavily criticized by scientists for allowing non-scientists to pick winners and losers and for constraining researchers to only create an impact that is aligned with the government's political agenda.\n\nRoger Cobb, Jennie Keith Ross and Marc Howard Ross developed the “models of agenda building” theory to specify three different models: the outside initiative model, mobilization model, and inside initiative model. These models are designed to show the different ways the political agenda changes. The study related success of an idea being translated from the \"public agenda\" (being discussed regularly) to the “formal agenda” (government taking serious considerations into making changes in that specific area). Success in this study meant an issue was placed on the formal agenda and given attention by decision makers. Results showed that achieving agenda status is more difficult in modern nations than in smaller nations rooted in face-to-face interaction. More specifically:\nThe study also found that there are components of political agendas that hold true across nations and across different models:\n\nThe outside initiative model discusses the process where issues arise in non-governmental organizations and then are expanded to reach the formal agenda. The order of events starts with a grievance, an expansion of interest supported by nongovernmental groups, and then an exertion of pressure onto decision makers. It is about the process through which issues arise in non-governmental groups and are then expanded sufficiently to reach, first the public agenda and then the formal agenda. The outside initiative model is most prevalent in egalitarian societies.\n\nThe mobilization model is focused around political agenda issues that are initiated within government and subsequently reach the public agenda and formal agenda status. Its focus is on the internal mechanism and how politicians work to get ideas formalized onto the agenda. However, success in implementation does require support from the public under this model as well. The mobilization model is most commonly linked with hierarchical societies, or those societies which emphasize a wide gap between the leader and his or her followers.\n\nThe inside initiative model describes when issues are initiated within government, but supporters make no effort to expand it to the public. It is a model that is opposed to public participation. Instead, supporters of the issues rely solely on their own ability to apply the right amount of pressure to ensure formal agenda status. The inside access model is most often seen in societies with high concentrations of wealth and status.\n"}
{"id": "38841583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38841583", "title": "Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change", "text": "Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change\n\nThe Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change (EELA) is a program of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) which is implemented by Swiss contact in conjunction with its partners in nine countries in Latin America. The objective is to mitigate climate change through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Latin America and to improve the quality of life of the population in the areas of intervention.\n\nArtisanal brick producers in Latin America use fuel with high environmental impact in kilns with low energy efficiency. Wood, tires and plastics, among other fuels, are used to fire bricks, contributing to air pollution and deforestation as well as increasing the causes of climate change. Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.\n\nThe EELA program is focused on developing management models for artisanal brick producers, and includes activities that range from the adoption of more efficient production processes that require less fuel and emit less greenhouse gases, to the creation of new products that use less raw materials.\n\nEELA began its first phase working with 970 artisanal brick producers in seven areas located in San Juan (Argentina), Cochabamba (Bolivia), Serido (Brazil), Nemocon (Colombia), Cuenca (Ecuador), Leon (Mexico) and Cusco (Peru). In 2012, Nicaragua and Honduras joined the initiative. The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.\n\nEELA hopes to reduce the GHG emissions of artisanal brick producers in the countries of operation by 30% and increase their income by 10%.\n\nIn conjunction with the Ministry of Production, the Regional Directorate of Production and the Municipality of San Jeronimo, EELA works to promote good manufacturing practices to better employ heat as well as provide technical assistance in the following areas:\n\nEELA constructed a downdraft kiln that is more efficient than a traditional kiln and that is affordable for an artisanal brick producer. The kiln is being replicated by brick producers in San Jerónimo, Cuenca (Ecuador) and in Mexico.\n\nIn a second phase, EELA will seek to improve the management models through the use of knowledge gained from its first phase. \nEELA is supported by a group of partners that includes both public and private entities with experience in the brick sector, in each of the countries in which it operates.\n\n"}
{"id": "57932880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57932880", "title": "Public Ministry of Nicaragua", "text": "Public Ministry of Nicaragua\n\nThe Public Ministry of Nicaragua ensures effective criminal prosecution. Established in 2000, the ministry exercises vigilance and protection of society and victims of crime by promoting the investigation of criminal acts and criminal actions against offenders of the law that violate public order and security. It is an independent institution that operates via a functional and administrative organic autonomy and is subordinated only to the Political Constitution of the Republic and the laws. The Attorney General of the Republic heads the ministry.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The listing only shows the Attorneys General that served from 2000 and onward since the ministry's establishment. \n\n"}
{"id": "10864839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10864839", "title": "Public interest privilege", "text": "Public interest privilege\n\nUnder common law, public-interest privilege prevents the compulsory disclosure of documents or information which is against the public interest. There is a balance between public interests- if the public interest in secrecy is greater than the public interest in disclosure, it will be privileged. The public interest in disclosure is the principle that a court of justice ought not be denied access to relevant information, and that the opposing party should have access to all relevant information to make their case.\n\nUnlike other privileges, this right is not vested in any party or entity. The court may, of its own motion, prevent admission of evidence if it thinks it may disclose privileged information. The government need not be a party to proceedings for privilege to be raised. Privilege, being vested in the public interest and not a party, cannot be waived by a party. However, if the information has been published elsewhere this is a very strong factor towards the public interest of disclosure.\n\nThis privilege may be claimed on two bases. Firstly, that the documents belong to a class of documents which the public interest requires should not be disclosed. In Australia, even for documents belonging to a very high level documents, such as cabinet papers, the court must interrogate whether it really is prejudicial to the public interest to disclose it. Australian judges in general have been more willing to disclose information than judges in England or Canada. \n\n"}
{"id": "26403461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26403461", "title": "Richardson v Schwarzenegger", "text": "Richardson v Schwarzenegger\n\nRichardson v Schwarzenegger was an internet defamation case heard in the United Kingdom High Court of Justice (Queen’s Bench Division), on 29 October 2004. Claimant Anna Richardson, a prominent British television presenter, claimed to have been libeled in the 2 October 2003 issue of the \"Los Angeles Times\", which was available in print and online in the UK, as a result of statements made by Arnold Schwarzenegger’s then gubernatorial campaign manager. \n\nOne key issue in this case was to determine the appropriate venue: Can a suit be brought before a United Kingdom jurisdiction for statements made by an American in California which are immune from suit under local law?\n\nThe claimant, Anna Richardson, made no claims against the authors of the allegedly defamatory \"Los Angeles Times\" article, nor against the publishers of the paper. The three defendants were (1) Arnold Schwarzenegger, (2) Sean Walsh, the campaign spokesman whose application to dismiss service ultimately came before the High Court, and (3) Sheryl Main, Mr. Schwarzenegger’s publicist.\n\nRichardson had previously claimed that Schwarzenegger had “groped” her during a December 2000 interview in London. Although Walsh was not present for the interview in question, he categorically denied the allegations and suggested that they were little more than cheap political tricks.\n\nRichardson claimed that this denial implied that she had “deliberately and dishonestly fabricated” the allegations. She further noted that the damage to her reputation caused by the statement was felt in the UK due to the availability of the \"LA Times\" both in print and online in the UK.\n\nWalsh claimed Britain was an improper forum in which to litigate the case. Walsh’s attorney, Richard Spearman, described the case as follows:\nWalsh’s application to set aside an order giving the claimant permission to serve her claim had previously been refused by a lower court and was the subject of the present appeal before Mr. Justice Eady of the High Court of Justice. In upholding the lower court's original order, the High Court began its analysis of the issue by noting that, as a result of \"Dow Jones & Co. Inc. v Gutnick\", it is \"...well settled now that an internet publication takes place in any jurisdiction where the relevant words are read or downloaded.\"\n\nNext, the High Court reasoned similarly to the court in \"Calder v. Jones\", 465 U.S. 783 (1984) which employs the “Effects Test” commonly used in American personal jurisdiction cases. Accordingly, the judge identified the following factors as supporting the Court’s jurisdiction:\n\n(i) The claimant was a United Kingdom citizen.\n\n(ii) She was both resident and worked [in the UK].\n\n(iii) She was widely known and had an established reputation in [the UK].\n\n(iv) She had no comparable connection with any other jurisdiction, including the United States.\n\n(v) On the basis of the presumption of damage established in \"Shevill v. Presse Alliance\", damage to her reputation in [the UK] is presumed.\n\n(vi) The underlying events (should there be a plea of justification) took place in London.\n\n(vii) English law is applicable to publication in [the UK].\n\nUnlike the \"Calder v. Jones\" test, however, the High Court did not find it necessary for Walsh to have \"directly targeted\" the UK, but reasoned that jurisdiction was proper because it was \"arguable that the foreign politician intended or foresaw the consequences\". The suit was ultimately settled.\n\nThe High Court held that the correct forum is the one where it is just and reasonable for the defendant to answer for his alleged wrongdoing. The claimant was a UK citizen who lived and worked in the UK. She had an established reputation in the UK. She had no comparable connection with any other jurisdiction. Thus, damage was presumed to that reputation in the UK and the UK was the proper venue.\n\n"}
{"id": "27913563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27913563", "title": "Right to Internet access", "text": "Right to Internet access\n\nThe right to Internet access, also known as the right to broadband or freedom to connect, is the view that all people must be able to access the Internet in order to exercise and enjoy their rights to freedom of expression and opinion and other fundamental human rights, that states have a responsibility to ensure that Internet access is broadly available, and that states may not unreasonably restrict an individual's access to the Internet.\n\nIn December 2003 the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) was convened under the auspice of the United Nations. After lengthy negotiations between governments, businesses and civil society representatives the WSIS Declaration of Principles was adopted reaffirming the importance of the Information Society to maintaining and strengthening human rights:\n\nThe WSIS Declaration of Principles makes specific reference to the importance of the right to freedom of expression in the \"Information Society\" in stating:\n\nA poll of 27,973 adults in 26 countries, including 14,306 Internet users, conducted for the BBC World Service between 30 November 2009 and 7 February 2010 found that almost four in five Internet users and non-users around the world felt that access to the Internet was a fundamental right. 50% strongly agreed, 29% somewhat agreed, 9% somewhat disagreed, 6% strongly disagreed, and 6% gave no opinion.\n\nIn May 2011, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, Frank La Rue, submitted a report to the UN Human Rights Council \"exploring key trends and challenges to the right of all individuals to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds through the Internet\". The report made 88 recommendations on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of expression online, including several to secure access to the Internet for all. Other recommendations call on states to respect online anonymity, adopt privacy and data protection laws, and to decriminalize defamation. La Rue's recommendations explained that:\n\nMedia coverage of the report suggested that La Rue had declared Internet access itself a human right by emphasising that \"the Internet has become a key means by which individuals can exercise their right to freedom and expression\". In his report La Rue stressed that \"There should be as little restriction as possible to the flow of information via the Internet, except in a few, very exceptional, and limited circumstances prescribed by international human rights law.\" La Rue also emphasised that \"any restriction must be clearly provided by law, and proven to be necessary and the least intrusive means available for the purpose of protecting the rights of others\".\n\nIn July and August 2012 the Internet Society conducted online interviews of more than 10,000 Internet users in 20 countries. In response to the statement \"Access to the Internet should be considered a basic human right\":\n\nIn Summer of 2016, the United Nations Human Rights Council released a non-binding resolution condemning intentional disruption of internet access by governments. The resolution reaffirmed that \"the same rights people have offline must also be protected online\". Recent practice of the UN treaty-based bodies indicates growing interest in ensuring access to the Internet. In addition, Internet-related recommendations formulated under the Universal Periodic Review mechanism are as numerous as those related to the right to food and the right to water – both of which are well-established human rights.\n\nSeveral countries have adopted laws that require the state to work to ensure that Internet access is broadly available or preventing the state from unreasonably restricting an individual's access to information and the Internet:\n\nThe right to Internet access is closely linked to the right of freedom of speech which can be seen to encompass freedom of expression as well. Two key facets of the Internet are highlighted by Stephanie Borg Psaila - the Internet's content and the Internet's infrastructure. The infrastructure is necessary in order to deliver the service to the masses but requires extensive positive action. The content loaded onto the Internet however is seen as something that should be available to all, with few or no restrictions; limits on content have been viewed as the key breach of human rights, namely the right to freedom of speech.\n\nThe Internet's power is said to lie in its removal of a government’s control of information. Online on the Internet, any individuals can publish anything, which allows citizens to circumvent the government’s official information sources. This has threatened governing regimes and lead to many censoring or cutting Internet service in times of crisis.\n\nChina and Iran are currently the two world’s largest censorship users. Both nations use extensive firewall systems to block any information from the Internet which they perceive to be offensive or threatening to their regimes. If a citizen of these nations is caught dissenting from the nation using the Internet then they may face severe penalties, even the removal of civil liberties.\n\nIn contrast to this, censorship which has been initiated by the United States is focused more on the protection of intellectual property. While the right to proportion of one’s individual ideas is recognized, there is widespread fear that wide-ranging powers awarded in anti-piracy laws will lead to the abuse of freedom of expression and censorship.\n\nThe removal or censorship of Internet in turn could be seen as a breach of the human right of freedom of speech.\n\nOne such particular incident was in Egypt, where the government of Hosni Mubarak shut down the Internet a number of times during the 2011 uprising in an attempt to suppress the protests, which happened during the Arab Spring. Even though services were only cut off for a few days, this stifled Egyptians' ability to access basic services – such as ambulances – which has been blamed by some for escalating the death toll of protesters. In response to this, Google and Twitter developed a voice mail service for Egyptians to leave messages which in turn were posted onto Twitter.\n\nIn the report to the OSCE on Internet access as a fundamental human right, Professor Yaman Akdenian states that the right to freedom of expression must be universal including the technology which will enable it. Restrictions on this right and any mediums required to fulfill it should only be permitted if they comply with international norms and are balanced again the public interest. Furthermore, the author noted that new technologies which arise in aiding the freedom of expression will require new approaches. Thus rules governing the use of non-digital media cannot be assumed to apply to digital media too. Furthermore, it was also noted in the paper presented to the OSCE that extra measures should be taken to ensure vulnerable groups such as children have access to Internet and literacy programs.<ref name=\"http://www.osce.org/fom/80723\">Yaman Akdenian \"Freedom of Expression on the Internet\" (http://www.osce.org/fom/80723)</ref>\n\nThe right to development is a third generation right recognized by the UN General Assembly. The Internet's role in securing this right has been noted by human rights scholars and activists in several ways. The increasing access to technology such as mobile phones has already proven to provide developing nations with further economic development opportunities. Increasing access to the Internet can, for example, improve low income individuals' access to financial services such as savings accounts and enable online trading.\n\nThe UN Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, Frank La Rue, in his 2011 report to the UN Human Rights Council emphasised that \"without Internet access, which facilitates economic development and the enjoyment of a range of human rights, marginalized groups and developing States remain trapped in a disadvantaged situation, thereby perpetuating inequality both within and between States\". La Rue's report led to arguments that in order to secure Internet access as a human right and to facilitate every nation's economic development, governments should act to ensure universal access, just as governments should act to ensure access to utilities such as water and electricity. The advocacy group \"A Human Right\" estimates that 4.6 billion people worldwide currently do not have Internet access and that increasing access to the Internet by just 10% can add 1.28–2.5% to the GDP of developing countries.\n\nTraditionally the right to freedom of assembly covered peaceful gatherings such as protests in physical public spaces such as town squares but as technology progresses we are seeing a revolution in the way people meet and interact. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has stated, \"cyber space, after all, is the public square of the 21st century\". Today we are seeing an increase in the relevance of internet and the right to freedom of assembly. Even signing an online petition has been known to cause arrests and the internet has become a useful tool in the organization of protest movements and demonstrations.\n\nIt is widely recognized that without the contribution of the Internet and social media networks such as Twitter and Facebook recent political events such as the Arab Spring could not have occurred, or at least not to the same extent. The role these mediums had were to allow the communication and mass dispatch of protests and other movements.\n\nInternet access was also pivotal in the Occupy movement. A collective of journalists involved in the movement stated in regards to access to internet, \"[a]ccess to open communications platforms is critical for the human species evolution and survival\".\n\nImplementing the right to Internet access can be accomplished by requiring that universal service providers provide a mandatory minimum connection capability to all desiring home users in the regions of a country they serve.\n\nMuch of the Spanish speaking world has celebrated Internet Day since 2005, including many initiatives of increasing network access. Panama has 214 \"infoplazas\" which are places of free Internet access. (from Hoy (from Ecuador) on May 17, 2011, called \"Derechos Humanos y accesso de la red central celebracion del Dia de Internet\".)\n\nHigh-profile criticism of the notion that access to the Internet should be considered a human right comes from Vint Cerf who is often dubbed the \"father of the Internet\". Cerf claims that internet access cannot be a right in itself. Cerf sums up his argument when he states \"Technology is an enabler of rights, not a right itself.\" This has been seen as a narrow interpretation by some human rights commentators including Amnesty International.\n\nCerf concedes the Internet plays an important role in civil participation which leads him to conclude that Internet access should be a civil right, but he does not agree with it being afforded the higher status of a human right.\n\nThis article has sparked much debate online about the scope of human rights and whether Internet access should be afforded that status.\n\nMany have pointed to weaknesses in Cerf's argument. Cerf notes that the positive act of providing Internet access would be too onerous on governments and in any case governments do not have a duty to provide all their citizens with access to other forms of communication such as telephones. Egyptian human rights activist Sherif Elsayed-Ali argues that the notion of rights have the ability to change as social contexts change. He claims that one must look at right in the context complete denial to the world population of that right would lead to a detriment in the quality of life. Elsayed-Ali claims without the Internet we would be taking a step back in our development with news and innovation in crucial sectors such as health and technology would take much longer to spread across the globe.\n\nThere has also been criticism of Cerf's framing of the Internet as something less important than the right to \"freedom from torture or freedom of conscience\", as it might be better compared to other basic human rights like those found in Article 25 of the UDHR, notably \"the right to a standard of living … including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services\". A Human Right, a non-profit organization, also took issue with Cerf's belief that placing technology in the pantheon of human rights is a mistake because \"we will end up valuing the wrong things\". They argue that \"The potpourri of protocols, wires, and bits that make the Internet are no more special than the hammer and nails used to build a home, and to classify either as a human right would be a sincere mistake. But just as a home is much more than the sum of its parts, so is the Internet.\"\n\nBrian Schepis, a colleague of Cerf at Google, defends Cerf's conclusion on the grounds that advocates for a human right to the Internet improperly define the qualifications of a human right. Schepis argues that human rights should only protect things that are instrumentally necessary for membership in a political community and, although the Internet is instrumentally valuable for membership, it should not be seen as a human right in and of itself because it is not necessary for membership. In claiming a human right to the Internet, advocates devalue the overall effectiveness of human rights as tools of justification in global political arena through a process called \"human rights inflation\".\n\nOthers have argued that it is ridiculous to consider internet access a human right, as that would mean that all human beings up until the invention of the internet were deprived of a basic human right, which would be an impossibility if it is a natural, inalienable right.\n\nOthers point to the fact that it is not the Internet itself which is the right but rather the access to the Internet which should be an enshrined right. The European Union's European Commission Vice President Viviance Reding stated that \"The rules therefore provide that any measures taken regarding access to or use of, services and applications must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, including the right to privacy, freedom of expression and access to information and education as well as due process.\" \"(Emphasis added)\" The removal of this right through censorship or the denial of service could amount in a breach to several human rights which are fulfilled through online participation.\n\nLa Rue thus emphasizes \"Each state should thus develop a concrete and effective policy to make the Internet widely available, accessible, and affordable to all segments of population.\"\n\nIn response to copyright infringement using peer-to-peer software, the creative industries, reliant on copyright, advocate what is known as a \"graduated response\" which sees consumers disconnected after a number of notification letters warning that they are infringing copyright. The content industry has sought to gain the co-operation of Internet service providers (ISPs), asking them to provide subscriber information for IP addresses identified by the content industry as engaged in copyright infringement. The proposal for Internet service providers to cut off Internet access to a subscriber who had received three warning letters of alleged copyright infringement was initially known as \"three strikes\", based on the baseball rule of \"three strikes and you're out\". The approach was later termed \"graduated response\". Media attention has focused on attempts to implement such an approach in France (see the HADOPI law) and the UK (see the Digital Economy Act 2010), though the approach, or variations of it, has been implemented in a number of other countries, or attempts are made to do so.\n\nThe Internet as a whole is seen as a medium which is outside of any one state's jurisdiction, while portions of the Internet are subject to laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate. Going forward, international dialogue has begun on how the Internet should be regulated.\n\nHuman rights activists are lobbying for any regulation on the Internet to be in the form of protections of rights rather than in limiting access to the Internet. Any attempt to regulate \"harmful\" or illegal activities online can face difficulties as states differ in their definitions of both..\n\nThe type and breadth of access which is ensured by an enshrined right can also widely vary, with governments which have pursued an enshrinement of a right to broadband often setting seemingly-adequate minimum targets of speed, number of home connections, type of provision, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2648251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2648251", "title": "Slavery reparations scam", "text": "Slavery reparations scam\n\nThe \"Slave Reparations Act\" (also called the Slavery Reparation Tax Credit, Black Tax Credit or Black Inheritance Tax Refund) is a tax fraud related to the concept of reparations for slavery. The scam claims that filers can receive $5,000 or increased social security payouts for African-Americans born in the United States between 1911 and 1926.\n\nIt claims that African-Americans are entitled to a $5,000 slavery reparation tax credit. Below is a sample solicitation:\n\nThe goal of the scam is to get the victim to send all of their information to the scammer. By doing this, the scammer will gain the ability to commit identity theft on the victim.\n\nThis scam may have resulted from unpassed congressional legislation in 1999 to explore slave reparations. The bill, H.R. 40, would have created a commission to study the possibility of actual reparations to slave families.\n\nAnother payout quotes $43,209 as the estimated value of \"40 acres and a mule,\" supposedly laid out in an 1866 bill that was passed by Congress but was vetoed by President Andrew Johnson. No such bill was entered into Congress in 1866. It is based on an actual order by Union General William Tecumseh Sherman, Special Field Order No. 15, that set aside land from Charleston, South Carolina to Jacksonville, Florida for the exclusive use of freed slaves. Each family would receive from this holding. Sherman may have acted on his own authority. No record exists of President Abraham Lincoln or the War Department authorizing this action.\n\nThe Freedmen's Bureau controlled over of confiscated land in 1865, and many of its officials intended to settle blacks on it. As President Johnson began to restore property to former Confederates, commissioner Oliver Otis Howard issued Circular 13. The document, put out in July, ordered rapid establishment of forty-acre plots in violation of presidential pardons.\n\nIn response to Sherman's precedent and Howard's instructions, the White House issued Howard's Circular 15 in September 1865 ordering restoration of land to pardoned owners and taking them back from freed slaves who had received them under Special Field Order No. 15.\n\nThe Southern Homestead Act of 1866 did make public land in some states available to freed slaves. Most of this land was swampy or distant from travel routes or was claimed by lumber companies.\n\nIn April 2002, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) received more than 100,000 attempts to claim reparation tax credits and paid out more than $30 million in erroneous refunds. The IRS continued to report false tax credit scams and claims in 2003 and 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47189689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47189689", "title": "Special Field Orders No. 64", "text": "Special Field Orders No. 64\n\nSpecial Field Orders No. 64 (series 1864) were military orders issued during the American Civil War, on September 4, 1864, by General William Tecumseh Sherman, commander of the Military Division of the Mississippi of the United States Army, and was issued during the Atlanta Campaign after learning that the Confederate forces commanded by Lieut. Gen. John B. Hood had evacuated Atlanta on Sept. 1, 1864.\n\nThis order signaled the end of the Atlanta Campaign that began with the Battle of Rocky Face Ridge fought May 7–13, 1864, north of Dalton, Georgia. This order detailed the occupation of Atlanta and the country near the city. The Army of the Cumberland was to occupy Atlanta. The Army of the Tennessee was to occupy East Point and the head of Camp Creek. The Army of the Ohio was to occupy Decatur. General Sherman announced to his troops:\n\nBy Sept. 8, Gen. Sherman reported to Maj. Gen. H. W. Halleck that his “whole Army” was encamped around Atlanta. Gen. Sherman promised his troops rest and pay. Thus began the occupation of Atlanta. During their stay in Atlanta, the troops would build their own quarters, evacuate most of the civilian population, rest, replace worn out equipment, reorganize, and make preparations for their next campaign. When Sherman’s troops began their March to the Sea on November 15, all assets of military value in Atlanta would be destroyed.\n\nUpon the receipt of Sherman’s Special Field Orders, No. 64, each commander of the three Federal Armies in turn issued Special Field Orders to each of their Cops. The commanders and each Corp. then issued Special Field Orders to their Division Commanders.\n\nThis order is part of the Official Records of the American Civil War. It can be found in Series I — Military Operations, Volume XXXVI, Part V, Page 308. The volume was published in 1891.\n\n\nNotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "7928434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7928434", "title": "Straight-ticket voting", "text": "Straight-ticket voting\n\nStraight-ticket voting or straight-party voting is the practice of voting for every candidate that a political party has on a general election ballot. In general, straight-ticket voting was a very common occurrence until around the 1960s and 1970s. Since that time, straight-ticket voting has declined in the United States among the general voting population; however, strong partisans (that is, strong party identifiers) have remained straight-ticket voters.\n\nIn the early days of the parties, it was nearly impossible not to vote on a straight-party line vote. Voters would receive a colored ballot with that party's nominees on it. A split-ticket vote would require two different colored ballots, which confused the voter. Often, the voter would choose a specific party, and vote for everyone from that party. Some states have had an option (sometimes known as a master lever) to select \"vote straight-ticket Democrat\" and \"vote straight-ticket Republican\" that voters can check instead of voting for each race; states that do so include Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Utah. West Virginia, Michigan, and Iowa abolished this practice in 2015, 2016, and 2017, respectively, though Michigan's repeal was blocked by a federal judge due to discrimination issues in 2016 but was reinstated by the 6th Circuit Court and Supreme Court in 2018. Michigan voted to restore straight-ticket voting through a ballot proposal in 2018. Texas's straight-ticket repeal will be effective in 2020.\n\nThe straight-ticket voting option differs slightly from state to state.\n\nGeneral-election ballots in Michigan have three sections:\n\n\nVoters in Michigan had long been able to vote a straight ticket or a split ticket (voting for individual candidates in individual offices).\n\nStraight-ticket voting only involved the partisan section of the ballot, meaning that if an individual wished to vote in a non-partisan race or for or against a proposal, they had to cast those votes individually. One area in which this issue received attention was in races for the Michigan Supreme Court. All parties on the ballot can nominate candidates for Justice of the Supreme Court at their party conventions (2–3 months before the election for primary-eligible parties, or before the August primary for alternative parties which nominate only at conventions or county caucuses). However, the races appear on the ballot in the nonpartisan section, meaning that a straight-ticket vote for either of these parties would not include a vote for that party's candidates for Supreme Court.\n\nThe Michigan Legislature passed and Governor Rick Snyder signed SB 13 on January 5, 2015, which repeals and abolishes straight-ticket voting in the state. This follows failed attempts to abolish it in 1964 and 2001-2002 after voter referenda repealing abolition. With a $5 million appropriation in SB 13, however, a voter referendum is no longer possible due to a constitutional prohibition on referenda on bills appropriating moneys by the Legislature.\n\nIn 2018, Michigan voters passed a ballot proposal that restored straight-ticket voting.\n\nNorth Carolina had an option for voting \"straight party\" (using the term from an NC ballot) that did not include a vote for the President and Vice President of the United States, through the 2012 elections. A voter ID law enacted in 2013 abolished all straight-ticket voting in the state, and went into effect in 2014. The bill eliminating it was HB 589.\n\nUnder the former system, North Carolina made separate selections for the President/Vice President and the straight-party option. This idiosyncrasy on the North Carolina ballot was described by some as \"a ballot flaw,\" potentially resulting in voters failing to cast a vote for President and Vice President when doing so was their intent. It was introduced in the 1960s to shore up Democrats at the state level as Republicans were gaining strength at the national level. In the 2000 presidential election, there was a 3.15% \"undervote\" (i.e. (total voter turnout - total votes for President and Vice President) / total voter turnout); in the 2004 presidential election, there was a 2.57% undervote. This means that in raw numbers, more than 92,000 North Carolina voters in the 2000 election turned out to vote but did not vote for president; similarly, in 2004, more than 75,000 North Carolina voters turned out to vote but not vote for president.\n\nIn Texas, a vote for a straight-party ticket casts votes for all party candidates in all races where the party is fielding a candidate and the voter is eligible to cast a vote, from the President/Vice President (or Governor) to the county constable or justice of the peace. On June 1, 2017, Governor Greg Abbott signed into law House Bill 25, which eliminates the straight-ticket voting option in Texas for all races beginning in 2020.\n\nA voter, however, may vote a straight-party ticket and subsequently cast an individual vote in a particular race. This may happen in cases where\n\nStraight-party voting is only available in the general election for partisan elections. It is not available for:\n\nIn those cases where a partisan election is combined with a non-partisan election and/or ballot issues, the voter can vote straight-party in the partisan portion, but then must vote individually in the other portion(s).\n\nIn West Virginia, voting \"straight party\" included a vote for all candidates of the party voters selected, including the President and Vice President of the United States. Non-partisan candidates had to be voted separately. In 2015, however, straight-ticket voting was eliminated as an option on ballots through an Act of the State Legislature signed by Governor Earl Ray Tomblin, SB 249.\n\nThe Seneca Nation of Indians, which operates under a republican form of government on reservations within the bounds of the state of New York, offers a straight-ticket voting option. To qualify, a political party must field candidates in each seat up for election in a given year. In practice, only the Seneca Party, which has been the dominant party in the nation's politics for decades, has ever received the straight-ticket option. Opponents of the Seneca Party have accused the party of using the straight-ticket option to eavesdrop on voters and punish them with the loss of their jobs if they do not use it, also using the promise of jobs to those running in opposing parties to get them to drop out and deny those parties the straight-ticket option.\n\n"}
{"id": "30614564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30614564", "title": "SurfWatch", "text": "SurfWatch\n\nSurfWatch, Inc. was a Los Altos, CA-based company which pioneered the first software that allowed users to block explicit content on the Internet. By disallowing computers from accessing specified sites and by screening for newsgroups likely to contain sexually explicit material, SurfWatch was able to aid parents, educators and employers in preventing access to offensive material from a specific computer. The Apple Macintosh version of SurfWatch 1.0 first shipped in May 1995 and was followed by the Microsoft version in July of the same year.\n\nDue to its specific locus of control, SurfWatch and various similar software programs played an instrumental role in \nhelping to overturn the Communications Decency Act, as they offered an alternative to internet censorship. Because \nSurfwatch gave users a choice as to what should be blocked, it offered an alternative to broad censorship of online \nmaterial. Surfwatch has been criticized by \nPeacefire for unfairly blocking gay and lesbian resource sites.\n\nSurfwatch was founded by Ann Duvall, Bill Duvall, and Jay Friedland. \n\nAnn Duvall, President of SurfWatch software had performed a wide variety of roles in high-tech prior to her involvement \nwith SurfWatch. \n\nBill Duvall, CEO of Surfwatch, had been previously involved in founding and developing technology companies for 30 years. \nIn the course of his work, he gained the distinction of writing the software which sent the first package across the \nInternet in 1969. He coauthored RFC’s 1, 2 and 3. Bill is featured in a video on the 40th anniversary of the Internet.\nSince their work on SurfWatch, Bill Duvall and Ann Duvall have gone on to create “ChoosetheBlue.com,” a website that provided information as to which companies had employees that primarily supported democratic candidates \nand which companies had employees who primarily supported republican candidates. The site was intended to encourage \nconsumers to spend money in places that would support democratic causes.\n\nJay Friedland, who acted as Vice President of Marketing and Sales had 15 years of experience in high-tech management at the time of SurfWatch’s creation. He has since gone on to assist Internet start-up companies in establishing new business models for commerce on the net. Currently, he works as Vice President of Strategy and Sustainability for Zero Motorcycles and as Legislative Director for Plug In America.\n\nIn 1995, the U.S. Senate set out to ban Internet users from posting illicit content. In the measure, the Senate endorsed “severe penalties” for those who posted “everything from child pornography to profanity.” Despite the seeming impossibility of accurate enforcement, the measure outraged many American citizens. Those who opposed the measure believed that censorship of the Internet was an infringement on their right to free speech. Opponents of the Congressional legislation believed that technology that blocks access is preferable to an outright ban. At the time of the legislation, SurfWatch was one of the only companies offering an Internet filter. A majority of the technology industry believed the best way to shield children from inappropriate content was, as journalist Steve Lohr put it, “with specialized software, enabling parents to block access to certain computer-network traffic.” Thus, as an alternative to complete Internet censorship, software such as SurfWatch played a key role in the overturning of the 1996 Communications Decency Act, for it provided Internet users to limit access controlled audiences, rather than limiting the whole of Internet content to all.\n\nSurfWatch was acquired by Spyglass, Inc. in May 1996.\n\nSpyglass later sold SurfWatch to JSB Software Technologies, who merged the software with its own SurfControl division,with plans to continue the software’s service to clients such as Microsoft Corp's WebTV, Comcast Corp, Worldgate, Excite@Home, American Interactive Media and NTL. \n\nIn September 2007 Websense acquired SurfControl.\n\n"}
{"id": "39216107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216107", "title": "Taiwanese chicken-beheading rituals", "text": "Taiwanese chicken-beheading rituals\n\nChicken-beheading rituals are a quasi-judicial ritual in Taiwanese culture that have acted as a dispute resolution mechanism for complicated and emotionally charged disputes that have not been settled in traditional courts or through private mediation. Chicken-beheading rituals have come to be associated with personal honesty in Taiwanese society and become more of a symbol of integrity than an actuality in contemporary Taiwan.\n\nChicken-beheading rituals have historical roots in the legal traditions of China’s Fujian Province, where over 70% of Taiwanese citizens can trace their lineage.\n\nIn feudal Fujianese society, individuals who were suspected of theft were taken before images of judges and forced to proclaim an oath of innocence. Someone hiding behind the judge image would then point at the defendant who would supposedly break down and confess if they were guilty.\n\nLegal trials were also often conducted in the presence of images of deities as a way of forcing individuals to be honest. Temple managers even sometimes acted as judges themselves. These Fujianese trials have been embedded into Taiwanese culture and many other aspects of Fujianese tradition have also been transferred into Taiwanese chicken-beheading rituals, notably the use of oaths of innocence (赌咒, duzhou “oath－making”- literally meaning to gamble on an oath) and use of local deities to encourage people to fear breaking their oaths.\n\nIn a broader sense, the history of chicken-beheading rituals represents the important role that religion plays in Taiwanese society; Taiwanese citizens turn to their local city deity to arbitrate when the Taiwanese legal system is insufficient.\n\nThe exact dates of the first instances of chicken-beheading rituals in Taiwan are unknown, yet the rituals were frequently practiced throughout the 19th Century and were still common during the Japanese rule of Taiwan in the first half of the 20th Century. However, the rate of chicken-beheading rituals declined as Taiwan rapidly modernised in the later half of the 20th Century.\n\nWhen private mediation has not worked and the Taiwanese legal system has been bypassed or failed to resolve a complicated dispute, chicken-beheading rituals have been used as a dispute resolution mechanism.\n\nThe actual chicken-beheading ritual involves two individuals at odds with one another over a dispute that may be personal or legal in nature. Both bring a chicken to their local temple which is often the temple of their local city god; the individuals then proclaims an oath of innocence while standing before their god.\n\nAn oath of innocence normally involves a brief description of where somebody lives, their age, a description of their version of the contested events and a statement proclaiming one’s innocence and remonstrating that they are an honourable person. Finally the person will make a contingent curse upon themselves, promising that some kind of grave misfortune will happen to them or their families if they lied in their oath.\n\nChicken-beheading rituals can have a wide variety of ramifications, but generally help resolve the complicated disputes in question.\n\nJapanese legal academic Masuda Fukutaro recorded an example of successful dispute resolution through the ritual in Dongshan township, pre-World War Two, Taiwan, during Japanese rule. An individual, Wang Buren, borrowed 50 yuan from his friend, Chen Youyi, but did not return the money to Chen’s widow after Chen died. Instead he asserted that he had already paid it. Chen’s widow was told by the local court that as her husband had not kept a receipt of the loan, she could not bring the matter to court. She was distraught and so forced Wang to conduct a chicken-beheading ritual with her at the temple of the city god in Dongshan to determine who was telling the truth. Twenty days after proclaiming his oath of innocence, Wang was seen babbling and maniacally running through the streets, saying that he would be happy to give 100 yen to Chen’s widow to resolve the matter. In this way, the chicken-beheading ritual successfully forced the guilty party to admit his wrongdoing and thereby resolved the issue.\n\nIn another example, a wealthy man’s home was robbed, and he blamed his assistant, who denied all knowledge of the crime. The assistant brought a white cockerel to the local city god in order to prove his innocence. During the ritual, he made it clear that he would be willing to suffer death if he was indeed guilty. Consequently, the real culprit feared so much for his life that he returned what he had stolen.\n\nIn both cases, the chicken-beheading ritual forced the guilty parties to confess and thus assisted in successfully resolving disputes.\n\nTaiwanese chicken-beheading rituals have often led to the resolution of disputes because of what they symbolise.\n\nTaiwanese chicken-beheading rituals are deeply laden with symbolism. The chicken is considered a representation of the human that is beheading it. The implication of beheading the chicken is that the human would be willing to die or lose their integrity if their oath of innocence was false. In such a god fearing society, as Taiwan traditionally has been, the gravitas involved in symbolically killing yourself after proclaiming your honesty and innocence has a profound power in the cultural imagination of society.\n\nThe reasons for using chickens, as opposed to other animals, in this ritual are both symbolic and practical. Chickens symbolise the sun (陽) and positive forces of life and vitality in Chinese and Taiwanese culture. However, it is commonly understood that the main reason chickens were used is that chickens remained extremely cheap and plentiful in both Southern China and Taiwan. As such, ordinary people could not only easily decapitate a chicken without much hassle but also conveniently buy one from their local butcher.\n\nDue to their bloody nature, chicken-beheading rituals are rarely performed in modern Taiwan.\n\nHowever, many politicians make oaths of innocence in local temples to boost their chances of getting elected. In spring 2001 the Taiwanese politician, Yan Qingbiao was accused of extortion and attempted murder. He made an oath proclaiming that he was a man of integrity and innocent of any wrongdoing in one of Taiwan’s most renowned temples, the Zhenlan Gong. This asservation served to bolster his political capital as the dramatic display made his constituents believe that he was indeed an honest and good man.\n\nChicken-beheading rituals are occasionally referred to metaphorically in modern Taiwanese politics. When James Soong, was accused of embezzling funds from his own Kuomintang (KMT) Party, he was depicted performing a chicken-beheading ritual to prove his innocence in a cartoon by the \"Liberty Times\". This cartoon vehemently ridiculed Soong because he was a member of the Westernised elite and would not engage in such a traditional ritual. The cartoon also demonstrated how the image of a chicken being beheaded still resounded in the minds of the Taiwanese people.\n\nIn this way chicken-beheading rituals are used in an allegorical sense in modern Taiwan, mostly in the political sphere, and few chickens are actually beheaded. The honour and sincerity that has been historically attached to chicken-beheading rituals remains a potent force in Taiwanese society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40192783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40192783", "title": "United States Alien Terrorist Removal Court", "text": "United States Alien Terrorist Removal Court\n\nThe United States Alien Terrorist Removal Court is a special court consisting of five Article III judges, selected by the Chief Justice of the United States. Its job is to determine whether aliens (non-citizens) should be deported from the United States on the grounds that they are terrorists.\n\nAs of 1996, when it was formed, the original judges on the Court were Chief Judge Earl H. Carroll (D. Ariz.), and Judges Michael Anthony Telesca (W.D. N.Y.), David Dudley Dowd, Jr. (N.D. Ohio), William Clark O'Kelley (N.D. Ga.) and Alfred M. Wolin (D. N.J.).\n\nAccording to Karen Redmond, a public information officer in the Administrative Offices of the U.S. Courts, as of October 15, 2016 the current members of the Court are: Rosemary M. Collyer (D. D.C.), Chief Judge; Harold Albert Baker (C.D. Ill.); James Parker Jones (W.D. Va.); William C. O'Kelley (N.D. Ga.); and Thomas B. Russell (W.D. Ky.).\n\nThe Court is modeled after the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, and was created by , the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996, codified at .\n\nAs of 2018, the Court has never received an application from the Attorney General for the removal of an alien terrorist, and had therefore conducted no proceedings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2616303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2616303", "title": "Vienna Convention on Consular Relations", "text": "Vienna Convention on Consular Relations\n\nThe Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963 is an international treaty that defines a framework for consular relations between independent states. A consul normally operates out of an embassy in another country, and performs two functions: (1) protecting in the host country the interests of their countrymen, and (2) furthering the commercial and economic relations between the two states.\n\nThe treaty provides for consular immunity. The treaty has been ratified by 179 states.\n\nThe Convention was adopted at Vienna on April 24, 1963, the United Nations Conference on Consular Relations, which took place at the Neue Hofburg from March 4 to April 22, 1963. Its official texts are in the English, French, Chinese, Russian and Spanish languages, which the Convention provides are equally authentic.\n\nThe treaty contains 79 articles. The preamble to the Convention states that customary international law continues to apply to matters not addressed in the Convention. Some significant provisions include.\n\nThe Convention (Article 43) provides for consular immunity. Some but not all provisions in the Convention regarding this immunity reflect customary international law. Consular immunity is a lesser form of diplomatic immunity. Consular officers and consular employees have \"functional immunity\" (i.e., immunity from the jurisdiction of the receiving state \"in respect of acts performed in exercise of consular function\"), but do not enjoy the broader \"personal immunity\" accorded to diplomats. \n\nThere are 179 state parties to the convention including most UN member states and UN observer states Holy See and State of Palestine. The signatory states that have not ratified the convention are: Central African Republic, Israel, Ivory Coast and Republic of Congo. The UN member states that have neither signed nor ratified the convention are: Afghanistan, Burundi, Chad, Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Ethiopia, Palau, San Marino, Solomon Islands, South Sudan, Swaziland and Uganda.\n\nIn March 2005, following the decisions of the International Court of Justice in the \"LaGrand\" case (2001) and \"\"Avena\" case\" (2004), the United States withdrew from the Optional Protocol to the Convention concerning the Compulsory Settlement of Disputes, which confers the ICJ with compulsory jurisdiction over disputes arising under the Convention.\n\nIn 2006, the United States Supreme Court ruled that foreign nationals who were not notified of their right to consular notification and access after an arrest may not use the treaty violation to suppress evidence obtained in police interrogation or belatedly raise legal challenges after trial (\"Sanchez-Llamas v. Oregon\"). In 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court further ruled that the decision of the ICJ directing the United States to give \"review and reconsideration\" to the cases of 51 Mexican convicts on death row was not a binding domestic law and therefore could not be used to overcome state procedural default rules that barred further post-conviction challenges (\"Medellín v. Texas\").\n\nIn 1980, prior to its withdrawal from the Optional Protocol, the U.S. brought a case to the ICJ against Iran—\"United States Diplomatic and Consular Staff in Tehran\" (\"United States v Iran\")—in response to the seizure of United States diplomatic offices and personnel by militant revolutionaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "31042783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31042783", "title": "Vilnius Declaration", "text": "Vilnius Declaration\n\nThe Vilnius Declaration was a declaration adopted by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) during the 18th annual session of its parliamentary assembly, that took place in Vilnius from 29 June to 3 July 2009.\n\nThe declaration contained 28 resolutions that addressed a number of issues, including \"...strengthening of the OSCE, election observation, the food security in the OSCE area, the world financial crisis and the social consequences of that crisis, Iran, Afghanistan, human rights and civil liberties, arms control and disarmament in Europe, labour migration in Central Asia, energy security, climate change, water management, freedom of expression on the Internet, and a moratorium on the death penalty.\" Its condemnation of totalitarianism and support for the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism provoked protests by Russia and international media attention.\n\nIts resolution on \"Europe Reunited: Promoting Human Rights and Civil Liberties in the OSCE Region in the 21st Century\" is notable for its condemnation of totalitarianism. The resolution states that \"in the twentieth century European countries experienced two major totalitarian regimes, Nazi and Stalinist, which brought about genocide, violations of human rights and freedoms, war crimes and crimes against humanity,\" urges all OSCE members to take a \"united stand against all totalitarian rule from whatever ideological background,\" condemns \"the glorification of the totalitarian regimes, including the holding of public demonstrations glorifying the Nazi or Stalinist past,\" and expresses support for the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism, which was proclaimed by the European Parliament in 2008.\n\nThe resolution was criticized by Russia, as Joseph Stalin \"continues to be a hero to many Russians\". The Russian delegation tried but failed to have the resolution withdrawn. Of 213 present delegates from 50 countries, 201 supported the resolution, 8 voted against and 4 abstained.\n"}
{"id": "30874303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874303", "title": "Volunteering", "text": "Volunteering\n\nVolunteering is generally considered an altruistic activity where an individual or group provides services for no financial or social gain \"to benefit another person, group or organization\". Volunteering is also renowned for skill development and is often intended to promote goodness or to improve human quality of life. Volunteering may have positive benefits for the volunteer as well as for the person or community served. It is also intended to make contacts for possible employment. Many volunteers are specifically trained in the areas they work, such as medicine, education, or emergency rescue. Others serve on an as-needed basis, such as in response to a natural disaster.\n\nThe verb was first recorded in 1755. It was derived from the noun \"volunteer\", in C.1600, \"one who offers himself for military service,\" from the Middle French \"voluntaire\". In the non-military sense, the word was first recorded during the 1630s. The word \"volunteering\" has more recent usage—still predominantly military—coinciding with the phrase \"community service\".\nIn a military context, a volunteer army is a military body whose soldiers chose to enter service, as opposed to having been conscripted. Such volunteers do not work \"for free\" and are given regular pay.\n\nDuring this time, America experienced the Great Awakening. People became aware of the disadvantaged and realized the cause for movement against slavery. Younger people started helping the needy in their communities . In 1851, the first YMCA in the United States was started, followed seven years later by the first YWCA. During the American Civil War, women volunteered their time to sew supplies for the soldiers and the \"Angel of the Battlefield\" Clara Barton and a team of volunteers began providing aid to servicemen. Barton founded the American Red Cross in 1881 and began mobilizing volunteers for disaster relief operations, including relief for victims of the Johnstown Flood in 1889.\n\nThe Salvation Army is one of the oldest and largest organizations working for disadvantaged people. Though it is a charity organization, it has organized a number of volunteering programs since its inception.\nPrior to the 19th century, few formal charitable organizations existed to assist people in need.\n\nIn the first few decades of the 20th century, several volunteer organizations were founded, including the Rotary International, Kiwanis International, Association of Junior Leagues International, and Lions Clubs International.\n\nThe Great Depression saw one of the first large-scale, nationwide efforts to coordinate volunteering for a specific need. During World War II, thousands of volunteer offices supervised the volunteers who helped with the many needs of the military and the home front, including collecting supplies, entertaining soldiers on leave, and caring for the injured.\n\nAfter World War II, people shifted the focus of their altruistic passions to other areas, including helping the poor and volunteering overseas. A major development was the Peace Corps in the United States in 1960. When President Lyndon B. Johnson declared a \"War on Poverty\" in 1964, volunteer opportunities started to expand and continued into the next few decades. The process for finding volunteer work became more formalized, with more volunteer centers forming and new ways to find work appearing on the World Wide Web.\n\nAccording to the Corporation for National and Community Service (in 2012), about 64.5 million Americans, or 26.5 percent of the adult population, gave 7.9 billion hours of volunteer service worth $175 billion. This calculates at about 125–150 hours per year or 3 hours per week at a rate of $22 per hour. Volunteer hours in the UK are similar; the data for other countries is unavailable.\n\nIn 1960, after the so called revolutionary war in Cuba ended, Ernesto Che Guevara created the concept of volunteering work. It was created with the intention that workers across the country volunteer a few hours of work on their work centers.\n\nMany schools on all education levels offer service-learning programs, which allow students to serve the community through volunteering while earning educational credit. According to Alexander Astin in the foreword to \"Where's the Learning in Service-Learning?\" by Janet Eyler and Dwight E. Giles, Jr.,\"...we promote more wide-spread adoption of service-learning in higher education because we see it as a powerful means of preparing students to become more caring and responsible parents and citizens and of helping colleges and universities to make good on their pledge to 'serve society.'\" When describing service learning, the Medical Education at Harvard says, \"Service learning unites academic study and volunteer community service in mutually reinforcing ways. ...service learning is characterized by a relationship of partnership: the student learns from the service agency and from the community and, in return, gives energy, intelligence, commitment, time and skills to address human and community needs.\" Volunteering in service learning seems to have the result of engaging both mind and heart, thus providing a more powerful learning experience; according to Janet Eyler and Dwight E. Giles, it succeeds by the fact that it \"...fosters student development by capturing student interest...\" While not recognized by everyone as a legitimate approach, research on the efficacy of service learning has grown. Janet Eyler and Dwight E. Giles conducted a national study of American college students to ascertain the significance of service learning programs, According to Eyler and Giles,\"These surveys, conducted before and after a semester of community service, examine the impact of service-learning on students.\" They describe their experience with students involved in service-learning in this way: \"Students like service-learning. When we sit down with a group of students to discuss service-learning experiences, their enthusiasm is unmistakable. ...it is clear that [the students]believe that what they gain from service-learning differs qualitatively from what they often derive from more traditional instruction.\"\n\n\"Skills-based volunteering\" is leveraging the specialized skills and the talents of individuals to strengthen the infrastructure of nonprofits, helping them build and sustain their capacity to successfully achieve their missions. This is in contrast to traditional volunteering, where specific training is not required. The average hour of traditional volunteering is valued by the Independent Sector at between $18–20 an hour. Skills-based volunteering is valued at $40–500 an hour, depending on the market value of the time.\n\nAn increasingly popular form of volunteering among young people, particularly gap year students and graduates, is to travel to communities in the developing world to work on projects with local organisations. Activities include teaching English, working in orphanages, conservation, assisting non-governmental organizations and medical work. International volunteering often aims to give participants valuable skills and knowledge in addition to benefits to the host community and organization.\n\nAlso called \"e-volunteering\" or \"online volunteering\", virtual volunteering is a volunteer who completes tasks, in whole or in part, offsite from the organization being assisted. They use the Internet and a home, school, telecenter or work computer, or other Internet-connected device, such as a PDA or smartphone. Virtual volunteering is also known as cyber service, telementoring, and teletutoring, as well as various other names. Virtual volunteering is similar to telecommuting, except that instead of online employees who are paid, these are online volunteers who are not paid.\n\nMicro-volunteering is a task performed via an internet-connected device. An individual typically does this task in small, un-paid increments of time. Micro-volunteering is distinct from \"virtual volunteering\" in that it typically does not require the individual volunteer to go through an application process, screening process, or training period.\n\nEnvironmental volunteering refers to the volunteers who contribute towards environmental management or conservation. Volunteers conduct a range of activities including environmental monitoring, ecological restoration such as re-vegetation and weed removal, protecting endangered animals, and educating others about the natural environment.\n\nVolunteering often plays a pivotal role in the recovery effort following natural disasters, such as tsunamis, floods, droughts, hurricanes, and earthquakes. For example, the 1995 Great Hanshin-Awaji earthquake in Japan was a watershed moment, bringing in many first-time . The 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami attracted a large number of volunteers worldwide, deployed by non-governmental organizations, government agencies, and the United Nations.\n\nDuring the 2012 hurricane Sandy emergency, Occupy Sandy volunteers, formed a \"laterally organized rapid-response team\" that provided much needed help during and after the storm, from food to shelter to reconstruction. It is an example of mutualism at work, pooling resources and assistance and leveraging social media.\n\nResource poor schools around the world rely on government support or on efforts from volunteers and private donations, in order to run effectively. In some countries, whenever the economy is down, the need for volunteers and resources increases greatly. There are many opportunities available in school systems for volunteers. Yet, there are not many requirements in order to volunteer in a school system. Whether one is a high school or TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language) graduate or college student, most schools require just voluntary and selfless effort.\n\nMuch like the benefits of any type of volunteering there are great rewards for the volunteer, student, and school. In addition to intangible rewards, volunteers can add relevant experience to their resumes. Volunteers who travel to assist may learn foreign culture and language.\n\nVolunteering in schools can be an additional teaching guide for the students and help to fill the gap of local teachers. Cultural and language exchange during teaching and other school activities can be the most essential learning experience for both students and volunteers.\n\nBenefacto, a volunteering brokerage, describe corporate volunteering as \"Companies giving their employees an allowance of paid time off annually, which they use to volunteer at a charity of their choice.\"\n\nA majority of the companies at the Fortune 500 allow their employees to volunteer during work hours. These formalized Employee Volunteering Programs (EVPs), also called Employer Supported Volunteering (ESV), are regarded as a part of the companies' sustainability efforts and their social responsibility activities. About 40% of Fortune 500 companies provide monetary donations, also known as volunteer grants, to nonprofits as a way to recognize employees who dedicate significant amounts of time to volunteering in the community.\n\nAccording to the information from VolunteerMatch, a service that provides Employee Volunteering Program solutions, the key drivers for companies that produce and manage EVPs are building brand awareness and affinity, strengthening trust and loyalty among consumers, enhancing corporate image and reputation, improving employee retention, increasing employee productivity and loyalty, and providing an effective vehicle to reach strategic goals.\n\nIn April 2015, David Cameron pledged to give all UK workers employed by companies with more 250 staff mandatory three days’ paid volunteering leave, which if implemented will generate an extra 360 million volunteering hours a year.\n\nCommunity volunteering refers globally to those who work to improve their local community. This activity commonly occurs through not for profit organizations, local governments and churches; but also encompasses ad-hoc or informal groups such as recreational sports teams.\n\nThere are many proven personal benefits of community volunteerism. Working together with a group of people who have different ethnicity, backgrounds, and views reduces stereotypes. Community volunteerism has also been proven to improve student's academic success.\n\nAccording to \"Where's the Learning in Service Learning?\" by Janet Eyler and Dwight E. Giles, immersing oneself into service learning and serving others has many positive effects both academic and personal. Not only does surrounding oneself with new people and learning how to work together as a group help one improve teamwork and relational skills, it reduces stereotypes, increases appreciation of other cultures, and works to allow young people to find others that they relate to.\n\nEyler and Giles noted that at the beginning and end of a college semester that included three hours of community service a week, students reported a much higher regard for cultural differences. At the end of the semester those who had participated in service-learning were noted as saying that the most important things that they had learned were not to judge others, and to appreciate every type of person because everyone shares some similar key characteristics.\n\nCommunity volunteer work has proven to be a powerful predictor in students' academic lives and college experience as a whole. Studies have shown that students who participate in community service as a part of their college course of study have a much higher correlation of completing their degree (Astin, 1992; Pascarella and Terenzini, 1991). In addition, college students who participate in community volunteer projects as a part of their college experience report finding a much greater relevance in their academic studies after completing community volunteer projects. According to University Health Services, studies have found that volunteering can positively impact a student’s overall mental and emotional health.\n\nIn some European countries government organisations and non-government organisations provide auxiliary positions for a certain period in institutions like hospitals, schools, memorial sites and welfare institutions. The difference to other types of volunteering is that there are strict legal regulations, what organisation is allowed to engage volunteers and about the period a volunteer is allowed to work in a voluntary position. Due to that fact, the volunteer is getting a limited amount as a pocket money from the government. An organization having one of the biggest manpower in Europe is the German Federal volunteers service (Bundesfreiwilligendienst), that was founded in 2011, by having more than 35.000 federal volunteers in 2012. A much older institution is the Voluntary social year (Freiwilliges Soziales Jahr) in Austria and Germany.\n\nSochi Olympics 25,000 volunteers worked at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. They supported the organisers in more than 20 functional areas: meeting guests, assisting navigation, organising the opening and closing ceremonies, organising food outlets, etc. Volunteer applications were open to any nationals of Russia and other countries. The Sochi 2014 Organising Committee received about 200,000 applications, 8 applicants per place. Volunteers received training over the course of more than a year at 26 volunteer centres in 17 cities across Russia. The majority of participants were between 17 and 22 years old. At the same time, 3000 applications were submitted from people over 55 years old. Some of them worked as volunteers during the 1980 Olympics in Moscow. It was the first experience with such a large-scale volunteer program in the contemporary Russia.\n\nFor the first time in its history, Russia will host the FIFA World Cup from June 14 till July 15, 2018. Moreover, it will be the first time the World Cup games will be played both in Europe and Asia. The games will be hosted by 12 stadiums in 11 Russian cities.\n\nThe volunteer program of the 2018 FIFA World Cup has engaged thousands of people from Russia and other countries around the world.\n\nThe program included several stages: recruitment, selection and training of volunteers, organisation of their work during the championship. The recruitment of volunteers for the FIFA Confederations Cup and the FIFA World Cup via FIFA.com started on June 1, 2016 and closed on December 30, 2016. Some of the volunteers worked at the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup: 1733 people assisted the organisers in Saint Petersburg, 1590 worked in Moscow, 1261 in Sochi, 1260 in Kazan, a total of 5844 participants.\n\nThe FIFA World Cup will be supported by 17,040 volunteers of the Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee.\n\nCandidates living in Russia were selected by 15 volunteer centres in the host cities based in some of Russia's leading higher educational institutions: Synergy University, Moscow State Institute of International Relations, Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, Russian State Social University, Moscow Automobile and Road Construction University, Saint Petersburg State University of Economics, Samara State University, Volga Region State Academy of Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, Don State Technical University, Ogarev Mordovia State University, Volgograd State University, State University of Nizhny Novgorod, Samara State Aerospace University, Immanuel Kant Baltic Federal University, and Ural Federal University.\n\nCandidates from other countries were selected remotely.\n\nCandidates had to be at least 18 years old, have a good knowledge of English, have a higher or vocational secondary education, and possess teamwork skills.\n\nVolunteers were trained remotely, in volunteer centres and at World Cup venues.\n\nVolunteers will be providing assistance in a variety of areas:\n\n\nTheir work started ahead of the events: on May 10, 2017 for the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup, and on May 10, 2018 for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOn October 20, 2017, the Russian National Competition of Important Social Projects “Legacy of 2018 FIFA World Cup Volunteer Program” was launched. The competition has engaged about 1500 people: applicants to the 2018 FIFA World Cup volunteer program and future city volunteers.\n\nThe idea of the competition was that anyone could submit a project that would draw the attention of Russian cities residents to the FIFA World Cup in Russia and leave a legacy after the championship was over.\n\nThe project was expected to produce tangible (work of art, place of attraction for guests and residents in the city, open playground, graffiti, developed areas in city parks, films, etc.) or intangible (events, conferences, festivals, exhibitions) legacy.\n\n26 projects qualified to the final and were supported by the Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee and the host cities of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The jury included the General Director of the Russia 2018 Local Organising Committee Alexey Sorokin, Ambassador of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia Alexey Smertin and Advisor to the Head of the Federal Tourism Agency Svetlana Sergeeva.\n\nSome of the projects were combined or further developed by the Local Organising Committee.\n\nAmong the projects were: Football Championship for Moms, Ramp Production out of Recycled Plastic, Your Championship Sticker Packs, etc.\n\nDesignated days, weeks and years observed by a country or as designated by the United Nations to encourage volunteering / community service \n\nModern societies share a common value of people helping each other; not only do volunteer acts assist others, but they also benefit the volunteering individual on a personal level. Despite having similar objectives, tension can arise between volunteers and state-provided services. In order to curtail this tension, most countries develop policies and enact legislation to clarify the roles and relationships among governmental stakeholders and their voluntary counterparts; this regulation identifies and allocates the necessary legal, social, administrative, and financial support of each party. This is particularly necessary when some voluntary activities are seen as a challenge to the authority of the state(e.g., on 29 January 2001, President Bush cautioned that volunteer groups should supplement—not replace—government agencies’ work).\n\nVolunteering that benefits the state but challenges paid counterparts angers labor unions that represent those who are paid for their volunteer work; this is particularly seen in combination departments, such as volunteer fire departments.\n\nDifficulties in the cross-national aid model of volunteering can arise when it is applied across national borders. The presence of volunteers who are sent from one state to another can be viewed as a breach of sovereignty and showing a lack of respect towards the national government of the proposed recipients. Thus, motivations are important when states negotiate offers to send aid and when these proposals are accepted, particularly if donors may postpone assistance or stop it altogether. Three types of conditionality have evolved:\n\nSome international volunteer organizations define their primary mission as being altruistic: to fight poverty and improve the living standards of people in the developing world, (e.g. Voluntary Services Overseas has almost 2,000 skilled professionals working as volunteers to pass on their expertise to local people so that the volunteers' skills remain long after they return home). When these organizations work in partnership with governments, the results can be impressive. However, when other organizations or individual First World governments support the work of volunteer groups, there can be questions as to whether the organizations' or governments' real motives are poverty alleviation. Instead, a focus on creating wealth for some of the poor or developing policies intended to benefit the donor states is sometimes reported. Many low-income countries’ economies suffer from industrialization without prosperity and investment without growth. One reason for this is that development assistance guides many Third World governments to pursue development policies that have been wasteful, ill-conceived, or unproductive; some of these policies have been so destructive that the economies could not have been sustained without outside support.\n\nIndeed, some offers of aid have distorted the general spirit of volunteering, treating local voluntary action as contributions in kind, i.e., existing conditions requiring the modification of local people’s behavior in order for them to earn the right to donors’ charity. This can be seen as patronizing and offensive to the recipients because the aid expressly serves the policy aims of the donors rather than the needs of the recipients.\n\nBased on a case study in China, Xu and Ngai (2011) revealed that the developing grassroots volunteerism can be an enclave among various organizations and may be able to work toward the development of civil society in the developing countries. The researchers developed a \"Moral Resources and Political Capital\" approach to examine the contributions of volunteerism in promoting the civil society. Moral resource means the available morals could be chosen by NGOs. Political capital means the capital that will improve or enhance the NGOs’ status, possession or access in the existing political system.\n\nMoreover, Xu and Ngai (2011) distinguished two types of Moral Resources: Moral Resource-I and Moral Resource-II (ibid).\n\nThanks to the intellectual heritage of Blau and Duncan (1967), two types of political capital were identified:\nObviously, \"Moral resource-I itself contains the self-determination that gives participants confidence in the ethical beliefs they have chosen\", almost any organizations may have Moral Resource-I, while not all of them have the societal recognized Moral Resource-II. However, the voluntary service organizations predominantly occupy Moral Resource-II because a sense of moral superiority makes it possible that for parties with different values, goals and cultures to work together in promoting the promotion of volunteering. Thus the voluntary service organizations are likely to win the trust and support of the masses as well as the government more easily than will the organizations whose morals are not accepted by mainstream society. In other words, Moral Resource II helps the grassroots organizations with little Political Capital I to win Political Capital-II, which is a crucial factor for their survival and growth in developing countries such as China. Therefore, the voluntary service realm could be an enclave of the development of civil society in the developing nations.\n\nVolunteering has the ability to improve the quality of life and health including longevity of those who donate their time and research has found that older adults will benefit the most from volunteering. Physical and mental ailments plaguing older adults can be healed through the simple act of helping others; however, one must be performing the good deed from a selfless nature. There are barriers that can prevent older adults from participating in volunteer work, such as socio-economic status, opinions held by others, and even current health issues. However, these barriers can be overcome so that if one would like to be involved in volunteer work they can do so. Volunteering improves not only the communities in which one serves, but also the life of the individual who is providing help to the community.\n\nVolunteering is known not only to be related to happiness but also to increase happiness . Also, giving help was a more important benefit of better reported mental health than receiving help . Studies have also shown that volunteering can cause a decrease in loneliness for those volunteering as well as those for whom people volunteer.\n\nIn the United States, statistics on volunteering have historically been limited. In 2013, the U.S. Current Population Survey (US) included a volunteering supplement which produced statistics on volunteering.\n\nIn the 1960s, Ivan Illich offered an analysis of the role of American volunteers in Mexico in his speech entitled \"To Hell With Good Intentions\". His concerns, along with those of critics such as Paulo Freire and Edward Said, revolve around the notion of altruism as an extension of Christian missionary ideology. In addition, he mentions the sense of responsibility/obligation as a factor, which drives the concept of noblesse oblige—first developed by the French aristocracy as a moral duty derived from their wealth. Simply stated, these apprehensions propose the extension of power and authority over indigenous cultures around the world. Recent critiques of volunteering come from Westmier and Kahn (1996) and bell hooks (née Gloria Watkins) (2004). Also, Georgeou (2012) has critiqued the impact of neoliberalism on international aid volunteering.\n\nThe field of the medical tourism (referring to volunteers who travel overseas to deliver medical care) has recently attracted negative criticism when compared to the alternative notion of sustainable capacities, i.e., work done in the context of long-term, locally-run, and foreign-supported infrastructures. A preponderance of this criticism appears largely in scientific and peer-reviewed literature. Recently, media outlets with more general readerships have published such criticisms as well.\n\n\n\n\n"}
