{"id": "21319499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21319499", "title": "2009 Malagasy political crisis", "text": "2009 Malagasy political crisis\n\nThe 2009 Malagasy political crisis began on 26 January 2009 with the political opposition movement led by Antananarivo mayor Andry Rajoelina, which sought to oust President Marc Ravalomanana from the presidency. The crisis reached its climax on 21 March 2009 when Andry Rajoelina was declared the president of the High Transitional Authority of Madagascar, five days after Ravalomanana transferred his power to a military council and fled to South Africa.\n\nThe international community immediately condemned the leader and his ascension as unconstitutional. Financial support and foreign investments stopped, and the country fell into one of the worst economic crises in its history. The SADC and the African Union have been designated to supervise Madagascar's political reinstatement.\n\nThough the objective of the transitional government was to run presidential elections as soon as possible to relieve the tensions (despite regular delays), its major challenge has been to establish an agreement among Madagascar's four key political factions (Rajoelina, Ravalomanana, Zafy and Ratsiraka), some of which were and still are unfriendly to the transitional government. On 11 December 2010 a new constitution was formally approved, launching the Fourth Republic. On 28 October 2011 a consensus Prime Minister, Omer Beriziky, was appointed. Presidential and parliamentary elections were scheduled for 8 May and 3 July 2013.\n\nIn December 2007, Andry Rajoelina was elected mayor of Antananarivo. Tensions quickly grew between president Ravalomanana and the young mayor over the course of 2008 as Rajoelina became a vocal critic of a series of unpopular policies enacted by the president. He condemned what he called the \"restriction of freedom\" on the island, and criticized the president's plans to lease large parts of land to the Korean industrial company Daewoo.\n\nOn 13 December 2008, the Ravalomanana administration decided to shutter Viva TV, a television channel belonging to Rajoelina after broadcasting an interview with the former exiled president Didier Ratsiraka. Other television and radio stations that also aired the interview were not sanctioned.\n\nAndry Rajoelina organized a series of rallies in January 2009 that took aim at the Ravalomanana administration and gave voice to growing popular resentment toward the president's increasingly authoritarian policies and a widespread perception that national development had only benefitted an elite minority of which the president was the most visible figurehead. As anti-government frustration transformed into civil unrest, two state television stations were burned by anti-government protesters. At least 130 people were killed in Madagascar during the crisis. The protests were seen as the gravest challenge faced by the Ravalomanana government since he came to office in 2002. President Ravalomanana vowed to restore order \"whatever the cost\", according to a government statement.\n\nRajoelina called a general strike during the weekend of 24–25 January 2009, in the capital city, Antananarivo, against Ravalomanana, whom he has called a dictator. Ravalomanana, who was in South Africa, cut short his trip to a regional summit in Pretoria, and flew back to Madagascar. In a statement Ravalomanana accused the mayor of attempting a coup saying, \"The call for revolt and civil disobedience... corresponds to a coup d'état...tramples on the values of the constitution and the republic's institutions.\"\n\nOn 26 January 2009, the protests turned increasingly violent. Demonstrators set fire to the Madagascar state-owned radio building, attacked a private television station owned by Ravalomanana and looted shops and businesses throughout the city. That same day, armed government security agents reportedly disabled the transmitter of Viva Radio, a private radio station owned by Rajoelina.\n\nProtesters ransacked two pro-government television stations in Antananarivo. Thousands of protesters raided and looted the headquarters of the Radio Nationale Malgache and Télévision Nationale Malgache building around 1 pm local time on 26 January 2009. About an hour later demonstrators burned down the Malagasy Broadcasting System, a private station owned by President Ravalomanana. A policeman and a fourteen-year-old protester were reportedly killed in the clashes at the Malagasy Broadcasting System attacks.\n\nFirefighters found the bodies of at least 25 people in the ruins of a burned out, looted department store in downtown Antananarivo. The bodies were thought to be those of looters who became trapped in the burning shop when the roof caved in. In total, 44 people died. Their bodies were taken to a morgue, and all but ten of them were found to be severely burned.\n\nIn a show of defiance against the government, Rajoelina called for all Antananarivo residents to stay home on 29 January 2009. This \"ghost town\" (\"ville morte\") protest basically closed all stores and businesses in the capital city.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Cardinal emeritus of Antananarivo Armand Razafindratandra appealed for calm as the protests spread outside of the capital. All state and private radio stations in the country reportedly ceased broadcasting, with the exception of Radio Don Bosco, which is run by the Salesian religious institute.\n\nRajoelina said on 31 January that he was taking control of the country due to the failure of Ravalomanana and the government to fulfil their responsibilities. He said that a request for Ravalomanana's \"immediate resignation\" would be submitted to Parliament \"in order to comply with the legal procedure\". Furthermore, he asked that the central bank withhold money from the government, that all government ministries close, and that the security forces join him. Rajoelina said that he wanted the constitution to be respected and that it was Ravalomanana who had violated the constitution. According to Rajoelina, a new transitional government would soon be appointed under his leadership and a new presidential election would be held within two years. Speaking on the same day, Ravalomanana stated that he was \"still the president of this country\" and that he would \"do what is necessary to develop this nation\".\n\nThe African Union (AU) immediately warned Rajoelina that it would not accept an unconstitutional power grab in Madagascar: \"It's totally forbidden to take power by non-constitutional means.\"\n\nOpposition leaders allied to Rajoelina filed a petition with the High Constitutional Court on 2 February, asking it to remove Ravalomanana from office. By that point, attendance at Rajoelina's rallies had reportedly decreased. On 3 February, Rajoelina said at a rally that he would announce his new government on 7 February. On the same day, the High Constitutional Court ruled that it had no power to remove the President from office, as that power belonged to Parliament. Also on 3 February, Rajoelina was dismissed as Mayor and a special delegation, headed by Guy Randrianarisoa, was appointed instead. Rajoelina denounced the decision, saying that there was \"no valid reason\" for it and that he was prepared to face arrest if necessary; he warned that the city would \"not accept this decision\".\n\nRajoelina held another rally on 4 February, with about 1,500 people in attendance. On that occasion he described the appointment of Randrianarisoa as \"an insult to the people of Madagascar\"; he instead designated Michele Ratsivalaka to succeed him as Mayor and gave her his mayoral scarf.\n\nOn 7 February, an opposition rally was held with twenty-thousand in attendance. The demonstrators marched towards Ambohitsorohitra Palace and crossed the \"ligne rouge\" (red line), the perimeter line around the palace gates that demarcates the zone off-limits to the public. The palace guards responded by firing live ammunition to disperse the crowd. Initial reports counted 83 wounded and 28 people killed, including a local reporter. Some looting was reported afterward. Ambulances took the wounded to hospitals or private clinics, and bodies were seen piled up on the streets before they were taken to the morgue. The National Police warned that the death toll could rise, as many of the wounded were in critical condition. The following day it was reported that the death toll had increased to at least 50, with doctors estimating that 180 people had arrived at the city's main Ravoahangy Andrianavalona Hospital. Antananarivo journalist Fanja Saholiarisoa said: \"The mortuary is full and the hospital is full. On TV there is a special announcement calling on people who have cars to come and pick up the injured people from the hospitals\". This brought the number of people killed since the start of the political violence to 130, with 80 people killed before the shooting of the demonstrators, including the people who died in the burned department store.\n\nAlso on 7 February, Rajoelina said that Roindefo Monja would be prime minister under his transitional authority. According to Rajoelina, each of Madagascar's regions would have representation in the transitional authority. Regarding Ambohitsorohitra Palace, Rajoelina alluded to its history as a mayoral residence prior to 2002 and said that it \"belongs to the people and to the city\", while declaring that he had decided to give the palace to Monja for his use as prime minister. On the same day, Ravalomanana urged \"calm and order\", accusing Rajoelina of \"cross[ing] all limits\", while Prime Minister Charles Rabemananjara announced a one-week extension of the curfew.\n\nWhile visiting hospitalized victims of the shooting on 8 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue his struggle and argued that Ravalomanana's answer to the popular call for change was gunfire. He called for a national day of mourning on 9 February.\n\nOn 9 February, Defence Minister Cécile Manorohanta announced her resignation, saying, \"After all that has happened, I decide as of now to no longer remain part of this government.\" Chief of military staff Mamy Ranaivoniarivo was appointed to replace Manorohanta on the same day.\n\n7 February shooting was thought to have reversed the opposition's declining momentum. Newspapers published on 9 February, strongly denounced the shooting. On 10 February, speaking before a rally of about 5,000 supporters, Rajoelina urged the people to observe a general strike on the next day; he asked that everyone stay indoors and that no one go to work or attend school. Roindefo announced the appointment of four ministers to serve in his transitional government, and he said that the remainder of them would be appointed by the end of the week. Meanwhile, both Ravalomanana and Rajoelina accepted dialogue in principle; Rajoelina said that dialogue would be conditional on the holding of a new presidential election or the formation of a transitional government.\n\nAt a 35,000-strong rally in Antananarivo on 14 February, Ravalomanana said that he would serve out his full term as president, that he was listening to the people, and that he regretted the deaths that had occurred during the protests. On the same day, Rajoelina held a rally nearby, with about 10,000 in attendance.\n\nAt a rally on 17 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue the struggle, and later in the day several thousand of his supporters engaged in sit-ins near key ministries. Representing the government, Defense Minister Ranaivoniarivo invited Roindefo to participate in talks. Rajoelina's supporters took over several important ministries on 19 February, changing the locks and installing Rajoelina's own ministers to work in them. Meanwhile, Ravalomanana appointed a new Minister of the Interior, Rabenja Sehenoarisoa (who had previously served as chief of police in the capital). His predecessor as Interior Minister, Gervais Rakotonirina, was said to have departed the government due to poor health. Only hours after the opposition took over the government ministries, they were removed from the ministries by security forces early on 20 February; about 50 of Rajoelina's supporters were arrested.\n\nRavalomanana and Rajoelina met on 21 February; this meeting, which lasted about 45 minutes, was organized by the Council of Christian Churches in Madagascar. Both Ravalomanana and Rajoelina agreed to five points intended to calm the situation. This was intended as a prelude to more comprehensive dialogue. On 23 February the two met again for about an hour, and they held a third meeting, also lasting an hour, on 24 February. However, Ravalomanana failed to appear for a planned meeting on 25 February, and Rajoelina then announced that he was withdrawing from the talks. Rajoelina criticized Ravalomanana for his absence and furthermore stated that the meetings he had held with Ravalomanana prior to that were disappointing. Odon Razanakolona, who had been mediating the talks, abandoned his role shortly before Rajoelina withdrew from the talks; according to Razanakolona, the talks were fruitless and deadlocked.\n\nA protest in Antananarivo was broken up by the security forces on 26 February. Another protest in Fianarantsoa on 27 February, was also broken up; two deaths and 13 serious injuries were reported in the latter incident. At a 10,000-strong rally in Antananarivo on 28 February, Rajoelina vowed to continue his struggle \"until we end this dictatorship\". He said that, beginning on 2 March, protests would be held in the 13 May Plaza on a daily basis; he also called for the army to support him.\n\nA protest in Ambositra was broken up by police on 4 March, and two people were killed. Also on 4 March, President Ravalomanana declared his intention to \"restore order\" on Radio Mada. In Antananarivo, police blocked roads on 5 March to prevent protests in the 13 May Plaza.\n\nThe security forces unsuccessfully attempted to arrest Rajoelina at his compound late on 5 March; they also raided his Viva media network. Initially they surrounded Viva, and after 30 minutes the staff attempted to evacuate equipment, at which point the security forces stormed the building and confiscated equipment. Rajoelina told Agence France-Presse on 7 March that he was \"now hiding in a safe location where I cannot be attacked\"; it was later acknowledged that he had gone to the residence of the French ambassador on 6 March.\n\nSoldiers at a military base in Soanierana district, near Antananarivo, mutinied on 8 March; they objected to the use of force against the opposition. United Nations envoy Tiebilé Dramé said on 9 March that the UN was placing Rajoelina \"under its protection in a diplomatic residence\". The French Foreign Ministry said on 10 March that Rajoelina had left the French ambassador's residence.\n\nOn 10 March, the chief of staff of the Malagasy army, General Edmond Rasolomahandry, gave political leaders 72 hours to solve the country's problems and return peace, threatening to take over if this did not occur. The same day, Defence Minister Ranaivoniarivo announced his resignation shortly after a number of army officers visited his office to threaten a switch of allegiances to Rajoelina. On 11 March, pro-opposition soldiers from the CAPSAT (Army Corps of Personnel and Administrative and Technical Services) stormed the army headquarters and forced Edmond Rasolomahandry to resign. Analysts stated that civil war seemed a distinct possibility. Andre Andriarijaona replaced Rasolomahandry, apparently as a result of internal army deliberations and not a presidential appointment, and Andriarijaona said that the military would remain neutral and not seize power, thus revoking the 72-hour ultimatum. A spokesman for Rajoelina said on 11 March that Rajoelina would not participate in talks planned to begin the next day; subsequently the Christian Council of Churches announced that the talks would be delayed.\n\nOn 12 March, the opposition took over the Ministry of Finance and Budget with the support of the armed forces while the president's prime minister held a ten-minute meeting with the opposition-designated prime minister, who later stated that Rabemananjara had agreed to give up his job to him. The next day, the chief of the military police stated he was taking orders from Andre Andriarijaona and not from the general appointed by Ravalomanana; this was followed by the sending of army tanks against the Iavoloha Palace of the president, while some 3,000–5,000 civilian supporters of Ravalomanana surrounded the palace to counter opposition protests further away from the area. The Ravalomanana supporters, however, were told to clear the road in case the army neared the area.\n\nOn 14 March, Monja occupied the prime minister's office while the opposition forces controlled the building. Monja announced that the opposition forces, called the High Authority of Transition, \"is presiding over the destiny of Madagascar\". Rajoelina gave the president four hours, until 6 pm (1500 GMT), to voluntarily resign, after which a mass civilian march would take place on the presidential palace to put Ravalomanana out of office; he explicitly ruled out a violent overthrow through military means. However, Ravalomanana later emerged from the guarded palace after the deadline had passed, asserting that he was still the legal president and calling for a national conference.\n\nOn 15 March, Ravalomanana offered to hold a referendum on whether he should stay in power or not, which was seen as a sign of the intense pressure placed on his presidency. The following day, Rajoelina rejected this proposal and called on the security forces to arrest Ravalomanana.\n\nOn 16 March 2009, one of the palaces of President Ravalomanana, the Ambohitsorohitra Palace, was stormed and taken by soldiers of the Malagasy Army. Reports also indicate the capture of the country's central bank. The president was not in the stormed palace at the time. The African Union condemned the action, calling it an \"attempted coup d'état\". The actions followed an earlier call from opposition leader Andry Rajoelina for the President's arrest; Rajoelina insisted that the palace seizure was not a coup, although he immediately installed himself in the presidential offices of the captured palace.\n\nHours later, the BBC stated that Ravalomanana was to resign and hand over the powers of both the president and prime minister to a military board headed by Vice Admiral Hyppolite Ramaroson. Ravalomanana later said, \"I never resigned. I was forced to hand power over, at gun point, on March the 17th.\" At the time, Ravalomanana had already moved out of the Iavoloha Palace to an undisclosed location; as of 24 March, he was reportedly in Swaziland. The military junta, consisting of senior military personnel, would have been charged with organizing elections within 24 months and re-writing the constitution for the \"Fourth Republic\". However, Vice Admiral Ramaroson announced on 18 March that it would transfer power directly to Rajoelina, making him president of the opposition-dominated High Transitional Authority that he had appointed weeks earlier. With the military's backing, the authority was charged with taking up the task previously accorded to Ravalomanana's proposed military directorate. Madagascar's constitutional court deemed the transfer of power, from Ravalomanana to the military board and then to Rajoelina, to be legal. The court's statement did not include any justifications for its decision.\n\nRajoelina said that Ravalomanana should be prosecuted for allegedly using lethal force against unarmed opposition demonstrators earlier in the year. Rajoelina is prohibiting Ravalomanana's ministers from leaving the country.\n\nOn 19 March, Rajoelina suspended both chambers of Parliament. Roindefo responded to international criticism on 20 March, saying that the government will \"explain the real situation. Maybe the way Madagascar acts is not very clear. Things can be a bit specific which may be difficult to follow in every detail.\" According to Roindefo, the transfer of power was not a coup d'état but instead \"the direct expression of democracy, when representative democracy does not express itself through the institutions\". Rajoelina was sworn in as President on 21 March before a crowd of 40,000 supporters. No foreign diplomats were in attendance; Rajoelina's foreign minister said none were invited.\n\nOn the same day, Malagasy navy troops called for Rajoelina's resignation by 25 March, threatening to use force otherwise to protect the constitution of Madagascar. According to their statement, the navy troops \"condemn all violence against civilians\" committed by the army corps in March and denounce Rajoelina for the \"civil war occurring in Madagascar\". The navy troops claimed that there was \"irrefutable\" evidence that Rajoelina had paid the army corps hundreds of millions of ariaries and that they should face trials in accordance with military law. The navy troops called for other nations not to get involved in what they considered a purely domestic affair.\n\nIn a recorded message from Ravalomanana played to around 10,000 of supporters on 25 March, Ravalomanana encouraged people to \"save the nation, defend the union and our national unity\" because Rajoelina's government was \"destroying our country with their coup.\"\n\nAlso on 25 March, Rajoelina invited Ravalomanana's political party to join other political parties, unions, and business leaders to discuss reconciliation on 2 and 3 April. Rajoelina said the meeting would also include planning for the next elections. Rajoelina said he would appoint the members of the group who would organize the meeting. Ravalomanana's political party, Tiako I Madagasikara (TIM), did not immediately comment on whether it would participate in those meetings.\n\nOn 26 March, Rajoelina's justice minister said that Rajoelina had given a presidential pardon to 28 \"political prisoners\" and that more would be pardoned in the future. Members of TIM spoke to the crowd. The names of the pardoned individuals were not made public.\n\nAbout 6,000 people who supported Ravalomanana assembled in a park in downtown Antananarivo on 26 March, the fourth consecutive of such protests. Members of TIM spoke to the crowd. Referring to the reconciliation meeting proposed by Rajoelina, the speakers said that Ravalomanana would be involved only if he were recognized at the meeting as Madagascar's elected president and only if the United Nations, Southern African Development Community, or another neutral, international body organized the meeting. The speakers urged Ravalomanana to leave Swaziland, return to Madagascar, and call the bicameral parliament back in session. One speaker said that elections should only be held after Ravalomanana was reinstated as president. Following the speeches, security forces fired tear gas and shot bullets into the air to disperse the crowd.\n\nThe following day, about 6,000 people who supported Ravalomanana assembled again, the fifth such demonstration in five consecutive days. Police used tear gas on the assembled individuals at the end of the event, as they did at the end of the previous day's demonstration.\n\nOn 28 March, between 15,000 and 20,000 protesters assembled for the sixth consecutive day. In a recorded message played to the assembled crowd, Ravalomanana encouraged his supporters to continue protesting and gave assurance that he would return to Madagascar soon. While marching towards the 13 May Plaza, the same location that Rajoelina's supporters had assembled earlier in the year, police fired their weapons into the air and used tear gas to disperse the crowds, resulting in a stampede that injured 34 people. A young protester named \"Razily\", who was seen in a video of 28 March protests carrying the Malagasy flag at the head of the protests before being publicly beaten and carted off by police, became a cause célèbre when the video was distributed online; he has not been seen since his arrest. Police said they were trying to keep Ravalomanana's supporters from confronting Rajoelina's supporters. In response to the police actions, Ravalomanana's supporters encouraged a general strike on 30 March, saying, \"Students should not go to school, office workers should stop their work and the private sector should stop paying taxes so as not to support an illegal regime.\" Protests continued nearly every day thereafter.\n\nOn 31 March, Rajoelina announced the individuals who would constitute the cabinet of his transitional administration for 24 months until elections are held. Rajoelina compared himself to Ravalomanana, saying that Ravalomanana was not immediately accepted by world leaders when he came to power in 2002. Rajoelina reiterated his previous statements that other countries should not \"interfere\" with his rise to the presidency of Madagascar. Rajoelina also announced a freeze of all mining contracts with foreign companies, saying that the foreign companies are not paying the fees and royalties that are legally due to Madagascar.\n\nStill asserting that he was the legitimate president, Ravalomanana announced from exile that he was appointing Manandafy Rakotonirina as Prime Minister on 16 April. Ravalomanana made this announcement by telephone at a rally of his supporters in Antananarivo, with Rakotonirina in attendance.\n\nOn 20 April, people gathered in Antananarivo to listen to Ravalomanana speak by telephone and protest the closure of two radio stations, Radio Fahazavana and Radio Mada, the latter of which is owned by Ravalomanana. When the protesters began marching to a courthouse in the center of the city, police used tear gas to disperse the crowds and then fired their guns. A BBC reporter witnessed a protester killed after being shot in the back at close range. Another protester was also killed and twenty people went to the hospital for injuries sustained during the protests. The following day, thousands of people assembled to mourn the two deaths. Prime Minister Roindefo Monja announced that \"all demonstrations are banned, including those in support of Andry Rajoelina, in order to restore law and order.\" Despite the ban, a demonstration was held the following day. Over a thousand people assembled to protest, fewer in number and shorter in duration as compared in previous days.\n\nCars and trucks were set on fire and people were looting in Antananarivo on 23 April. Police used tear gas, detonators, and gun fire to break up protests. Six protesters were arrested.\n\nAfter Ravalomanana appointed him as Prime Minister, Rakotonirina began working out of the Carlton hotel in Antananarivo, and he appointed ministers to occupy the key government portfolios on 28 April. Soldiers with a warrant for Rakotonirina's arrest stormed the Carlton and arrested him on 29 April; they found him hiding in a bathroom after searching for about an hour. A spokesperson for Rajoelina described Rakotonirina as \"the mastermind of last week's violence\". Also in late April, Rajoelina's government informed the AU that it was prepared to hold an election by the end of 2009, earlier than it had previously stated.\n\nAt a reconciliation meeting that included four former presidents of Madagascar and United Nations negotiators, it was announced on 3 April that a constitutional referendum would be held in September 2009, parliamentary elections in March 2010 and presidential elections in October 2010.\n\nOn 11 April, Ravalomanana's supporters ended their participation in meetings with Rajoelina's supporters. Ravalomanana's supporters saying that the meetings were not worthwhile because their condition of the Ravalomanana's return to power was not met, nor was the United Nations' special envoy to Madagascar, Tiébilé Dramé, acting as an impartial mediator. In response, Dramé said he was \"seeking a consensus\" rather than an \"imposed solution\". On the same day, more than 10,000 people assembled in Antananarivo to protest Rajoelina's government.\n\nAt a meeting on 23 May 2009 a breakthrough was reached; a transitional government and a truth and reconciliation commission was agreed to be formed, and all former presidents would be allowed to stand in the presidential elections; this last point was seen as controversial, as it might increase instability. However, on 25 May 2009 the party of Didier Ratsiraka withdrew from the talks.\n\nFormer exiled president of Madagascar Marc Ravalomanana, President of the High Authority of Transition of Madagascar Andry Rajoelina, former exiled Madagascar president Didier Ratsiraka and former president of the Malagasy Republic Albert Zafy met on Tuesday 4 August 2009 in Maputo, Mozambican capital, for four-day-long mediation crisis talks with the former Mozambican President Joaquim Chissano acting as mediator. Representatives came from the African Union (AU), United Nations (UN), the International Organisation of the Francophonie and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). The mediation talks hoped to arrive at a way for Ravalomanana to return to Madagascar from his exile in South Africa. The talks were also a trade meeting to begin negotiations on the transition charter to seek new elections in Madagascar. Ratsiraka, who had been exiled in France, saw his amnesty issue resolved at the talks. The four leaders sought to again become a customs union (SADC), and representatives of the United Nations.\n\nOn 7 November 2009, the leaders agreed to a power-sharing deal in which Rajoelina stays as president, creation of two co-presidents, Fetison Rakoto Andrianirina, aide to former President Ravalomanana and Emmanuel Rakotovahiny, aide to former President Zafy. Prime Minister Eugene Mangalaza who was appointed on 10 October will be retained heading the 31-member cabinet. The deal also creates a 65-member council of transitional advisers and a transitional parliament composed of 258 members.\n\nDuring the transition in the government, people have been illegally hunting and logging in Marojejy National Park and other conservation areas in Madagascar. While the new Malagasy government is otherwise preoccupied and some park rangers have left their posts, armed groups are cutting down valuable rosewood trees. Laws prohibiting the export of rosewood were repealed in January 2009, so the illegally acquired logs can be sold and exported for profit. Thousands of local people were involved in cutting a documented 123,000 rosewood logs representing an estimated 45,000 rosewood trees from Marojejy, Masoala and Makira National Parks between January–October 2009, with at least 871 containers already exported to China between March–April 2009 alone from the Vohemar and Toamasina ports. Floating the rosewood logs down rivers also requires cutting of 4–5 lighter trees, and several rosewood species are endangered or occur at low densities below 1–5 trees per hectare. Numerous new access paths are created and some individuals built a 6-kilometer-long road into a remote northern park to transport the logs. Some ships land directly on the coast to pick up the logs, rather than at government-controlled ports. Bribery of customs officials has been reported. Radio commercials have been aired seeking workers to help in the process. Extracting resources from these conservation areas is likely to threaten already critically endangered species such as the silky sifaka lemur, one of the top 25 most endangered primates in the world. A statement jointly released by several non-governmental organizations criticized the logging and hunting occurring in national parks, illegal mining, and slash-and-burn farming occurring in Madagascar. The joint statement said that \"These deplorable acts will only further impoverish the country and deprive future generations of the Malagasy people from their unique natural heritage.\" The groups who issued the statement were World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, Wildlife Conservation Society, Missouri Botanical Garden, Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, Institute for the Conservation of Tropical Environment, The Peregrine Fund, ONG Fanamby, Madagascar Fauna Group, L'Homme et l'Environnement, and Plant Resources for Tropical Africa.\n\nIn 2009, Rajoelina canceled a contract with South Korean company Daewoo. Under the contract, Daewoo would have leased of land, almost half of Madagascar's arable land, for 99 years to grow corn and palm oil for export to South Korea, a project that might have created as many as 45,000 jobs. On 10 April 2009, Madagascar's Minister of Land Reform confirmed that the contract with Daewoo had been canceled because its \"approach was wrong\", even though \"the project by itself wasn't bad and such a project is welcome\". As of 10 April, Daewoo said it had not been informed of the contract's cancellation and would proceed with the project regardless.\n\nOn 17 March 2009, Canadian energy company Sherritt International said its 27-year $4.5-billion nickel-mining project would still begin in 2010 and reach full production in 2013, as scheduled. On 19 March 2009, it said it was likely the project's start date would be delayed.\n\nFinance Minister Benja Razafimahaleo reported a decrease in government revenue of 15 to 20 percent. Ravalomanana owns Tiko, the largest dairy farm in Madagascar. After Rajoelina became president, Rajoelina's supporters looted Tiko dairy farms, resulting in a milk shortage in Madagascar. Revenue from foreign tourists has decreased by 70 percent, in part because some foreign countries are cautioning their citizens against visiting the country About 70 percent of hotels have closed due to the sharp drop in business. One large hotel that has remained open temporarily laid off 150 of its 400 employees and cut the hours and wages of its other 250 employees. Strikes, wage shortages, and cuts in foreign aid are also causing economic problems for the country.\n\nOn 28 January 2009, the Confederation of African Football canceled a match between Madagascar's Academie Ny Antsika and Réunion's Union Sportive Stade Tamponnaise, which was set to be played in Antananarivo.\n\n\nSince 16 March, Norway has instituted sanctions, mostly consisting of a freeze of economic aid, primarily due to the unstable atmosphere in the country prior to the resignation of Ravalomanana, and it has retained such sanctions for the time being.\n\nOn 20 March, U.S. State Department spokesman Robert Wood said the United States will suspend all non-humanitarian assistance to Madagascar.\n\nThe African Union suspended Madagascar's membership in the organization. The Peace and Security Council of the African Union announced that it would impose sanctions on the Madagascar government if an \"unconstitutional\" transfer of power were to take place, including total expulsion from the African Union. The African Union can enact sanctions if Madagascar does not restore constitutional order within six months.\n\nThe African Union's stance was corroborated by Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg, who stated that the European Union may impose sanctions on Madagascar and not recognize the transfer of power, and the United States Department of State, which indicated a similar response to any \"extra-constitutional\" regime change. The Southern African Development Community will meet in late March to consider sanctions.\n\nOn 31 March, the European Union said it had not suspended its aid to Madagascar, which will continue for the next three years as previously agreed, but it also had no plans for new aid.\n\nUS President Barack Obama decided to remove Madagascar from the beneficiary of the AGOA African Growth and Opportunity Act. On 23 December of the year 2009, President Obama also terminated the program for Guinea, Niger and Madagascar because of their undemocratic changes of power. The AGOA program has helped created ten of thousands of jobs for middle class Malagasy especially in apparel manufacturing factories, it is feared that most of these jobs will be lost in the near future. Considering the important number of business affected by this decision, the economy of the capital city Antananarivo and Antsirabe will be deeply affected fearing further social tension.\n\nMost of the government response has been channeled through opposition prime minister Monja Roindefo, who denied that the events leading to Rajoelina's gaining of the presidency was a coup, but rather a \"direct expression of democracy, when representative democracy does not express itself through the institutions\", and called on the European Union to reconsider its reaction to the events. Rajoelina dismissed the condemnations, stating that \"if they haven't understood the process, they may well react. But if they stick to their line after we have spoken, it will be annoying\".\n\nRajoelina has promised that the high cost of living would decrease because merchants had agreed to decrease the price of bread and cooking oil as of 30 March, and the cost of rice soon thereafter.\n\nIn response to the Southern African Development Community's view that Rajoelina's rise to power was unconstitutional and its urging for elections within six months, Rajoelina said that membership in the SADC is \"not in the interests of Madagascar\". He said he would confer with others to decide whether Madagascar would continue to be a member of the SADC. \"The prospect of an SADC intervention is unacceptable. Other states cannot interfere with the decision of (Madagascar's) High Constitutional Court\" that the transfer of power to Rajoelina was constitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44995795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44995795", "title": "AVT Statistical filtering algorithm", "text": "AVT Statistical filtering algorithm\n\nAVT Statistical filtering algorithm is an approach to improving quality of raw data collected from various sources. It is most effective in cases when there is inband noise present. In those cases AVT is better at filtering data then, band-pass filter or any digital filtering based on variation of.\n\nConventional filtering is useful when signal/data has different frequency than noise and signal/data is separated/filtered by frequency discrimination of noise. Frequency discrimination filtering is done using Low Pass, High Pass and Band Pass filtering which refers to relative frequency filtering criteria target for such configuration. Those filters are created using passive and active components and sometimes are implemented using software algorithms based on FFT.\n\nAVT filtering is implemented in software and its inner working is based on statistical analysis of raw data.\n\nWhen signal frequency/(useful data distribution frequency) coincides with noise frequency/(noisy data distribution frequency) we have inband noise. In this situations frequency discrimination filtering does not work since the noise and useful signal are indistinguishable and where AVT excels. To achieve filtering in such conditions there are several methods/algorithms available which are briefly described below.\n\n\n\nAVT algorithm stands for Antonyan Vardan Transform and its implementation explained below.\n\nThis algorithm is based on amplitude discrimination and can easily reject any noise that is not like actual signal, otherwise statistically different then 1 standard deviation of the signal. Note that this type of filtering can be used in situations where the actual environmental noise is not known in advance.\n\nUsing a system that has signal value of 1 and has noise added at 0.1% and 1% levels will simplify quantification of algorithm performance. The R script is used to create pseudo random noise added to signal and analyze the results of filtering using several algorithms. Please refer to \"Reduce Inband Noise with the AVT Algorithm\" article for details.\nThis graphs show that AVT algorithm provides best results compared with Median and Averaging algorithms while using data sample size of 32, 64 and 128 values. Note that this graph was created by analyzing random data array of 10000 values. Sample of this data is graphically represented below.\n\nIn some situations better results can be obtained by cascading several stages of AVT filtering. This will produce singular constant value which can be used for equipment that has known stable characteristics like thermometers, thermistors and other slow acting sensors.\n\nThis is useful for detecting minute signals that are close to background noise level.\n\n"}
{"id": "1424697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424697", "title": "Ap (water)", "text": "Ap (water)\n\nAp (') is the Vedic Sanskrit term for \"water\", which in Classical Sanskrit only occurs in the plural, 'Varuna' or (sometimes re-analysed as a thematic singular, '), whence Hindi . The term is from PIE \"water\".\nThe Indo-Iranian word also survives as the Persian word for water, \"āb\", e.g. in \"Punjab\" (from \"panj-āb\" \"five waters\"). In archaic ablauting contractions, the laryngeal of the PIE root remains visible in Vedic Sanskrit, e.g. \"\" \"against the current\", from \"*\". In Tamil, Ap means water, and has references in poetry.\n\nIn the Rigveda, several hymns are dedicated to \"the waters\" (\"\"): 7.49, 10.9, 10.30, 10.47. In the oldest of these, 7.49, the waters are connected with the drought of Indra. Agni, the god of fire, has a close association with water and is often referred to as \"Apām Napāt\" \"offspring of the waters\". In Vedic astrology, the female deity Apah is the presiding deity of the Purva Ashadha asterism, meaning \"first of the aṣāḍhā\", with aṣāḍhā \"the invincible one\" being the name of the greater constellation.\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, the term refers to water as an element, one of the \"Panchamahabhuta,\" or \"five great elements\". In Hinduism, it is also the name of the deva Varuna a personification of water, one of the Vasus in most later Puranic lists.\n\n"}
{"id": "433769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433769", "title": "Aversion therapy", "text": "Aversion therapy\n\nAversion therapy is a form of psychological treatment in which the patient is exposed to a stimulus while simultaneously being subjected to some form of discomfort. This conditioning is intended to cause the patient to associate the stimulus with unpleasant sensations with the intention of quelling the targeted (sometimes compulsive) behavior.\n\nAversion therapies can take many forms, for example: placing unpleasant-tasting substances on the fingernails to discourage nail-chewing; pairing the use of an emetic with the experience of alcohol; or pairing behavior with electric shocks of mild to higher intensities.\n\nThe major use of aversion therapy is for the treatment of addiction to alcohol and other drugs. This form of treatment has been applied since 1932. The treatment is discussed in the \"Principles of Addiction Medicine\", Chapter 8, published by the American Society of Addiction Medicine in 2003.\n\nDisulfiram is used to treat alcohol dependence; it causes negative effects when a person drinks alcohol while the drug is in their system. It has been described as an aversion therapy, but it appears that it has more of a deterrent effect, since people who take it generally don't drink and therefore don't experience the negative effects.\n\nSpecifically, electrical aversion techniques have been demonstrated to significantly improve success rates among cigarette smokers. Additional longitudinal studies have repeated this effect, and showed cessation periods lasting at least 15 months post-trial. The examined trial involved 5 days of aversion therapy using an electric stimulus.\n\nEmetic therapy and faradic aversion therapy is used to induce aversion for cocaine dependency.\n\nMany individuals struggle with subconscious or compulsive habits, such as chronic nailbiting, hair-pulling (Trichotillomania), or skin-picking (commonly associated with forms of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder as well as Trichotillomania). The effects of these habits are compounded by a lack of awareness, as the individual often does not make the conscious decision to engage in the particular behavior, in contrast to disorders of drug or alcohol addiction.\n\nA relevant study of chronic nail-biters examined effects of electric stimulus, bitter substance (as applied to the nails), and placebo in biting reduction. Associating nail-biting with an electric stimulus or bitter substance showed similar levels of habit reduction as a result of aversion therapy, with over 80% of subjects exhibiting significant cessation rates up to 3 months post-trial. A similar study on the UCLA campus, examining electric stimulus conditioning on nail-biting alone, shared similar rapid and lasting results, with almost half of subjects ceasing entirely on the first day of treatment, and the majority having quit within 5 days.\n\nMore research is needed in cases of Trichotillomania (obsessive hair-pulling), but preliminary case-based data have demonstrated promising results for aversion therapy, specifically that of electric aversion.\n\nAs well, in cases specific to the rituals of obsessive compulsive disorder, using an electric stimulus to pair an unpleasant association with the undesired behavior has been successful in individual studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892408", "title": "Behaviour therapy", "text": "Behaviour therapy\n\nBehaviour therapy is a broad term referring to clinical psychotherapy that uses techniques derived from behaviourism. Those who practice behaviour therapy tend to look at specific, learned behaviours and how the environment influences those behaviours. Those who practice behaviour therapy are called behaviourists, or behaviour analysts. They tend to look for treatment outcomes that are objectively measurable. Behaviour therapy does not involve one specific method but it has a wide range of techniques that can be used to treat a person's psychological problems.\n\nApplied behaviour analysis (ABA) is the application of behaviour analysis that focuses on assessing how environmental variables influence learning principles, particularly respondent and operant conditioning, to identify potential behaviour-change procedures, which are frequently used throughout clinical therapy. Cognitive-behavior therapy views cognition and emotions as preceding overt behavior with treatment plans in psychotherapy to lessen the issue. Hallmark techniques of behaviour therapies are overlapping components of cognitive psychology, in addition to behaviour analytic principles of counterconditioning, punishment, habituation, and functional analysis (FA).\n\nMethodological behaviourism, which does not acknowledge that behaviour can also be covert, is not entirely outdated in clinical practice. Exposure and response prevention (ERP), a subcategory of \"Flooding\" desensitization and derived from methodological behaviourism, for example, is typically used for clients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Although not entirely behaviour analytic in theory, the behaviour therapist will first use functional behaviour assessments (FBAs) and behaviour intervention plans (BIPs) before implementing the intervention, and does rely on functional analysis in that respect.\n\nPrecursors of certain fundamental aspects of behaviour therapy have been identified in various ancient philosophical traditions, particularly Stoicism. For example, Wolpe and Lazarus wrote,\nThe first use of the term behaviour modification appears to have been by Edward Thorndike in 1911. His article \"Provisional Laws of Acquired Behavior or Learning\" makes frequent use of the term \"modifying behavior\". Through early research in the 1940s and the 1950s the term was used by Joseph Wolpe's research group. The experimental tradition in clinical psychology used it to refer to psycho-therapeutic techniques derived from empirical research. It has since come to refer mainly to techniques for increasing adaptive behaviour through reinforcement and decreasing maladaptive behaviour through extinction or punishment (with emphasis on the former). Two related terms are behaviour therapy and applied behaviour analysis. Since techniques derived from behavioural psychology tend to be the most effective in altering behaviour, most practitioners consider behaviour modification along with behaviour therapy and applied behaviour analysis to be founded in behaviourism. While behaviour modification and applied behaviour analysis typically uses interventions based on the same behavioural principles, many behaviour modifiers who are not applied behaviour analysts tend to use packages of interventions and do not conduct functional assessments before intervening.\n\nPossibly the first occurrence of the term \"behavior therapy\" was in a 1953 research project by B.F. Skinner, Ogden Lindsley, Nathan H. Azrin and Harry C. Solomon. The paper talked about operant conditioning and how it could be used to help improve the functioning of people who were diagnosed with chronic schizophrenia. Early pioneers in behaviour therapy include Joseph Wolpe and Hans Eysenck.\n\nIn general, behaviour therapy is seen as having three distinct points of origin: South Africa (Wolpe's group), The United States (Skinner), and the United Kingdom (Rachman and Eysenck). Each had its own distinct approach to viewing behaviour problems. Eysenck in particular viewed behaviour problems as an interplay between personality characteristics, environment, and behaviour. Skinner's group in the United States took more of an operant conditioning focus. The operant focus created a functional approach to assessment and interventions focused on contingency management such as the token economy and behavioural activation. Skinner's student Ogden Lindsley is credited with forming a movement called precision teaching, which developed a particular type of graphing program called the standard celeration chart to monitor the progress of clients. Skinner became interested in the individualising of programs for improved learning in those with or without disabilities and worked with Fred S. Keller to develop programmed instruction. Programmed instruction had some clinical success in aphasia rehabilitation. Gerald Patterson used programme instruction to develop his parenting text for children with conduct problems. (See Parent management training.) With age, respondent conditioning appears to slow but operant conditioning remains relatively stable. While the concept had its share of advocates and critics in the west, its introduction in the Asian setting, particularly in India in the early 1970s and its grand success were testament to the famous Indian psychologist H. Narayan Murthy's enduring commitment to the principles of behavioural therapy and biofeedback.\n\nWhile many behaviour therapists remain staunchly committed to the basic operant and respondent paradigm, in the second half of the 20th century, many therapists coupled behaviour therapy with the cognitive therapy, of Aaron Beck and Albert Ellis, to form cognitive behaviour therapy. In some areas the cognitive component had an additive effect (for example, evidence suggests that cognitive interventions improve the result of social phobia treatment.) but in other areas it did not enhance the treatment, which led to the pursuit of third generation behaviour therapies. Third generation behaviour therapy uses basic principles of operant and respondent psychology but couples them with functional analysis and a clinical formulation/case conceptualisation of verbal behaviour more inline with view of the behaviour analysts. Some research supports these therapies as being more effective in some cases than cognitive therapy, but overall the question is still in need of answers.\n\nThe behavioural approach to therapy assumes that behaviour that is associated with psychological problems develops through the same processes of learning that affects the development of other behaviours. Therefore, behaviourists see personality problems in the way that personality was developed. They do not look at behaviour disorders as something a person has but that it reflects how learning has influenced certain people to behave in a certain way in certain situations.\n\nBehaviour therapy is based upon the principles of classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov and operant conditioning developed by B.F. Skinner. Classical conditioning happens when a neutral stimulus comes right before another stimulus that triggers a reflexive response. The idea is that if the neutral stimulus and whatever other stimulus that triggers a response is paired together often enough that the neutral stimulus will produce the reflexive response. Operant conditioning has to do with rewards and punishments and how they can either strengthen or weaken certain behaviours.\n\nContingency management programs are a direct product of research from operant conditioning. These programs have been highly successful with those suffering from panic disorders, anxiety disorders, and phobias.\n\nSystematic desensitisation and exposure and response prevention both evolved from respondent conditioning and have also received considerable research.\n\nBehavior avoidance test (BAT) is a behavioural procedure in which the therapist measures how long the client can tolerate an anxiety-inducing stimulus. The BAT falls under the exposure-based methods of behaviour therapy. Exposure-based methods of behavioural therapy are well suited to the treatment of phobias, which include intense and unreasonable fears (e.g., of spiders, blood, public speaking). The therapist needs some type of behavioural assessment to record the continuing progress of a client undergoing an exposure-based treatment for phobia. One simple assessment approach for this is the BAT. The BAT approach is predicted on the assumption that the client's fear is the main determinant of behaviour in the testing situation. BAT can be conducted visual, virtually, or physically, depending on the clients' maladaptive behaviour. Its application is not limited to phobias, it is applied to various disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).\n\nBehaviour therapists complete a functional analysis or a functional assessment that looks at four important areas: stimulus, organism, response and consequences. The stimulus is the condition or environmental trigger that causes behaviour. An organism involves the internal responses of a person, like physiological responses, emotions and cognition. A response is the behaviour that a person exhibits and the consequences are the result of the behaviour. These four things are incorporated into an assessment done by the behaviour therapist.\n\nMost behaviour therapists use objective assessment methods like structured interviews, objective psychological tests or different behavioural rating forms. These types of assessments are used so that the behaviour therapist can determine exactly what a client's problem may be and establish a baseline for any maladaptive responses that the client may have. By having this baseline, as therapy continues this same measure can be used to check a client's progress, which can help determine if the therapy is working. Behaviour therapists do not typically ask the why questions but tend to be more focused on the how, when, where and what questions. Tests such as the Rorschach inkblot test or personality tests like the MMPI (Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory) are not commonly used for behavioural assessment because they are based on personality trait theory assuming that a person's answer to these methods can predict behaviour. Behaviour assessment is more focused on the observations of a persons behaviour in their natural environment.\n\nBehavioural assessment specifically attempts to find out what the environmental and self-imposed variables are. These variables are the things that are allowing a person to maintain their maladaptive feelings, thoughts and behaviours. In a behavioural assessment \"person variables\" are also considered. These \"person variables\" come from a person's social learning history and they effect the way in which the environment affects that person's behaviour. An example of a person variable would be behavioural competence. Behavioural competence looks at whether a person has the appropriate skills and behaviours that are necessary when performing a specific response to a certain situation or stimuli.\n\nWhen making a behavioural assessment the behaviour therapist wants to answer two questions: (1) what are the different factors (environmental or psychological) that are maintaining the maladaptive behaviour and (2) what type of behaviour therapy or technique that can help the individual improve most effectively. The first question involves looking at all aspects of a person, which can be summed up by the acronym BASIC ID. This acronym stands for behaviour, affective responses, sensory reactions, imagery, cognitive processes, interpersonal relationships and drug use.\n\nBehaviour therapy based its core interventions on functional analysis. Just a few of the many problems that behaviour therapy have functionally analysed include intimacy in couples relationships, forgiveness in couples, chronic pain, stress-related behaviour problems of being an adult child of an alcoholic, anorexia, chronic distress, substance abuse, depression, anxiety, insomnia and obesity.\n\nFunctional analysis has even been applied to problems that therapists commonly encounter like client resistance, partially engaged clients and involuntary clients. Applications to these problems have left clinicians with considerable tools for enhancing therapeutic effectiveness. One way to enhance therapeutic effectiveness is to use positive reinforcement or operant conditioning. Although behaviour therapy is based on the general learning model, it can be applied in a lot of different treatment packages that can be specifically developed to deal with problematic behaviours. Some of the more well known types of treatments are: Relaxation training, systematic desensitization, virtual reality exposure, exposure and response prevention techniques, social skills training, modeling, behavioural rehearsal and homework, and aversion therapy and punishment.\n\nRelaxation training involves clients learning to lower arousal to reduce their stress by tensing and releasing certain muscle groups throughout their body. Systematic desensitization is a treatment in which the client slowly substitutes a new learned response for a maladaptive response by moving up a hierarchy of situations involving fear. Systematic desensitization is based in part on counter conditioning. Counter conditioning is learning new ways to change one response for another and in the case of desensitization it is substituting that maladaptive behaviour for a more relaxing behaviour. Exposure and response prevention techniques is also known as flooding and response prevention. Flooding and response prevention is the general technique in which you expose an individual to anxiety-provoking stimuli while keeping them from having any avoidance responses or keeping them from freaking out.\n\nVirtual reality therapy provides realistic, computer-based simulations of troublesome situations. The modeling process involves a person being subjected to watching other individuals who demonstrate behaviour that is considered adaptive and that should be adopted by the client. This exposure involves not only the cues of the \"model person\" as well as the situations of a certain behaviour that way the relationship can be seen between the appropriateness of a certain behaviour and situation in which that behaviour occurs is demonstrated. With the behavioural rehearsal and homework treatment a client gets a desired behaviour during a therapy session and then they practice and record that behaviour between their sessions. Aversion therapy and punishment is a technique in which an aversive (painful or unpleasant) stimulus is used to decrease unwanted behaviours from occurring. It is concerned with two procedures: 1) the procedures are used to decrease the likelihood of the frequency of a certain behaviour and 2) procedures that will reduce the attractiveness of certain behaviours and the stimuli that elicit them. The punishment side of aversion therapy is when an aversive stimulus is presented at the same time that a negative stimulus and then they are stopped at the same time when a positive stimulus or response is presented. Examples of the type of negative stimulus or punishment that can be used is shock therapy treatments, aversive drug treatments as well as response cost contingent punishment which involves taking away a reward.\n\nApplied behaviour analysis is using behavioural methods to modify certain behaviours that are seen as being important socially or personally. There are four main characteristics of applied behaviour analysis. First behaviour analysis is focused mainly on overt behaviours in an applied setting. Treatments are developed as a way to alter the relationship between those overt behaviours and their consequences.\n\nAnother characteristic of applied behaviour analysis is how it(behaviour analysis) goes about evaluating treatment effects. The individual subject is where the focus of study is on, the investigation is centered on the one individual being treated. A third characteristic is that it focuses on what the environment does to cause significant behaviour changes. Finally the last characteristic of applied behaviour analysis is the use of those techniques that stem from operant and classical conditioning such as providing reinforcement, punishment, stimulus control and any other learning principles that may apply.\n\nSocial skills training teaches clients skills to access reinforcers and lessen life punishment. Operant conditioning procedures in meta-analysis had the largest effect size for training social skills, followed by modelling, coaching, and social cognitive techniques in that order. Social skills training has some empirical support particularly for schizophrenia. However, with schizophrenia, behavioural programs have generally lost favor.\n\nSome other techniques that have been used in behaviour therapy are contingency contracting, response costs, token economies, biofeedback, and using shaping and grading task assignments.\n\nShaping and graded task assignments are used when behaviour that needs to be learned is complex. The complex behaviours that need to be learned are broken down into simpler steps where the person can achieve small things gradually building up to the more complex behaviour. Each step approximates the eventual goal and helps the person to expand their activities in a gradual way. This behaviour is used when a person feels that something in their lives can not be changed and life's tasks appear to be overwhelming.\n\nAnother technique of behaviour therapy involves holding a client or patient accountable of their behaviours in an effort to change them. This is called a contingency contract, which is a formal written contract between two or more people that defines the specific expected behaviours that you wish to change and the rewards and punishments that go along with that behaviour. In order for a contingency contract to be official it needs to have five elements. First it must state what each person will get if they successfully complete the desired behaviour. Secondly those people involved have to monitor the behaviours. Third, if the desired behaviour is not being performed in the way that was agreed upon in the contract the punishments that were defined in the contract must be done. Fourth if the persons involved are complying with the contract they must receive bonuses. The last element involves documenting the compliance and noncompliance while using this treatment in order to give the persons involved consistent feedback about the target behaviour and the provision of reinforcers.\n\nToken economies is a behaviour therapy technique where clients are reinforced with tokens that are considered a type of currency that can be used to purchase desired rewards, like being able to watch television or getting a snack that they want when they perform designated behaviours. Token economies are mainly used in institutional and therapeutic settings. In order for a token economy to be effective their must be consistency in administering the program by the entire staff. Procedures must be clearly defined so that there is no confusion among the clients. Instead of looking for ways to punish the patients or to deny them of rewards, the staff has to reinforce the positive behaviours so that the clients will increase the occurrence of the desired behaviour. Over time the tokens need to be replaced with less tangible rewards such as compliments so that the client will be prepared when they leave the institution and won't expect to get something every time they perform a desired behaviour.\n\nClosely related to token economies is a technique called response costs. This technique can either be used with or without token economies. Response costs is the punishment side of token economies where there is a loss of a reward or privilege after someone performs an undesirable behaviour. Like token economies this technique is used mainly in institutional and therapeutic settings.\n\nConsiderable policy implications have been inspired by behavioural views of various forms of psychopathology. One form of behaviour therapy, habit reversal training, has been found to be highly effective for treating tics.\n\nThe third-generation behaviour therapy movement has been called clinical behavior analysis because it represents a movement away from cognitivism and back toward radical behaviourism and other forms of behaviourism, in particular functional analysis and behavioural models of verbal behaviour. This area includes acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), cognitive behavioral analysis system of psychotherapy (CBASP) (McCullough, 2000), behavioural activation (BA), functional analytic psychotherapy (FAP), integrative behavioural couples therapy and dialectical behavioural therapy. These approaches are squarely within the applied behaviour analysis tradition of behaviour therapy.\n\nACT may be the most well-researched of all the third-generation behaviour therapy models. It is based on relational frame theory. Other authors object to the term \"third generation\" or \"third wave\" and incorporate many of the \"third wave\" therapeutic techniques under the general umbrella term of modern cognitive behavioral therapies.\n\nFunctional analytic psychotherapy is based on a functional analysis of the therapeutic relationship. It places a greater emphasis on the therapeutic context and returns to the use of in-session reinforcement. In general, 40 years of research supports the idea that in-session reinforcement of behaviour can lead to behavioural change.\n\nBehavioural activation emerged from a component analysis of cognitive behaviour therapy. This research found no additive effect for the cognitive component. Behavioural activation is based on a matching model of reinforcement. A recent review of the research, supports the notion that the use of behavioural activation is clinically important for the treatment of depression.\n\nIntegrative behavioural couples therapy developed from dissatisfaction with traditional behavioural couples therapy. Integrative behavioural couples therapy looks to Skinner (1966) for the difference between contingency-shaped and rule-governed behaviour. It couples this analysis with a thorough functional assessment of the couple's relationship. Recent efforts have used radical behavioural concepts to interpret a number of clinical phenomena including forgiveness.\n\nMany organisations exist for behaviour therapists around the world. The Association for Behavior Analysis International provides accreditation for training programs in behaviour therapy. In the United States, the American Psychological Association's Division 25 is the division for behaviour analysis. The Association for Contextual Behavior Therapy is another professional organisation. ACBS is home to many clinicians with specific interest in third generation behaviour therapy. The Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (formerly the Association for the Advancement of Behavior Therapy) is for those with a more cognitive orientation.\n\nTwo large studies done by the Faculty of Health Sciences at Simon Fraser University\nindicates that both behaviour therapy and cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) are equally effective for OCD. CBT has been shown to perform slightly better at treating co-occurring depression.\n\nConsiderable policy implications have been inspired by behavioural views of various forms of psychopathology. One form of behaviour therapy (habit reversal training) has been found to be highly effective for treating tics.\n\nThere has been a development towards combining techniques to treat psychiatric disorders. Cognitive interventions are used to enhance the effects of more established behavioural interventions based on operant and classical conditioning. An increased effort has also been placed to address the interpersonal context of behaviour.\n\nBehaviour therapy can be applied to a number of mental disorders and in many cases is more effective for specific disorders as compared to others. Behaviour therapy techniques can be used to deal with any phobias that a person may have. Desensitization has also been applied to other issues such as dealing with anger, if a person has trouble sleeping and certain speech disorders. Desensitization does not occur over night, there is a process of treatment. Desensitization is done on a hierarchy and happens over a number of sessions. The hierarchy goes from situations that make a person less anxious or nervous up to things that are considered to be extreme for the patient.\n\nModeling has been used in dealing with fears and phobias. Modeling has been used in the treatment of fear of snakes as well as a fear of water.\n\nAversive therapy techniques have been used to treat sexual deviations as well as alcoholism.\n\nExposure and prevention procedure techniques can be used to treat people who have anxiety problems as well as any fears or phobias. These procedures have also been used to help people dealing with any anger issues as well as pathological grievers (people who have distressing thoughts about a deceased person).\n\nVirtual reality therapy deals with fear of heights, fear of flying, and a variety of other anxiety disorders. VRT has also been applied to help people with substance abuse problems reduce their responsiveness to certain cues that trigger their need to use drugs.\n\nShaping and graded task assignments has been used in dealing with suicide and depressed or inhibited individuals. This is used when a patient feel hopeless and they have no way of changing their lives. This hopelessness involves how the person reacts and responds to someone else and certain situations and their perceived powerlessness to change that situation that adds to the hopelessness. For a person with suicidal ideation, it is important to start with small steps. Because that person may perceive everything as being a big step, the smaller you start the easier it will be for the person to master each step. This technique has also been applied to people dealing with agoraphobia, or fear of being in public places or doing something embarrassing.\n\nContingency contracting is used to treat any behavioural problems that an individual may have. It has been used to deal with behaviour problems in delinquents and when dealing with on task behaviours in students.\n\nToken economies are used in controlled environments and are found mostly in psychiatric hospitals. They can be used to help patients with different mental illnesses but it doesn't focus on the treatment of the mental illness but instead on the behavioural aspects of a patient. The response cost technique has been used to address a variety of behaviours such as smoking, overeating, stuttering, and psychotic talk.\n\nSystematic desensitization has been shown to successfully treat phobias about heights, driving, insects as well as any anxiety that a person may have. Anxiety can include social anxiety, anxiety about public speaking as well as test anxiety. It has been shown that the use of systematic desensitization is an effective technique that can be applied to a number of problems that a person may have.\n\nWhen using modeling procedures this technique is often compared to another behavioural therapy technique. When compared to desensitization, the modeling technique does appear to be less effective. However it is clear that the greater the interaction between the patient and the subject he is modeling the greater the effectiveness of the treatment.\n\nWhile undergoing exposure therapy a person usually needs five sessions to see if the treatment is working. After five sessions exposure treatment is seen to benefit the patient and help with their problems. However even after five sessions it is recommended that the patient or client should still continue treatment.\n\nVirtual Reality treatment has shown to be effective for a fear of heights. It has also been shown to help with the treatment of a variety of anxiety disorders. Virtual reality therapy can be very costly so therapists are still awaiting results of controlled trials for VR treatment to see which applications show the best results.\n\nFor those with suicidal ideation treatment depends on how severe the person's depression and feeling of hopelessness is. If these things are severe the person's response to completing small steps will not be of importance to them because they don't consider it to be a big deal. Generally those who aren't severely depressed or fearful, this technique has been successful because the completion of simpler activities build up their confidences and allows them to continue on to more complex situations.\n\nContingency contracts have been seen to be effective in changing any undesired behaviours of individuals. It has been seen to be effective in treating behaviour problems in delinquents regardless of the specific characteristics of the contract.\n\nToken economies have been shown to be effective when treating patients in psychiatric wards who had chronic schizophrenia. The results showed that the contingent tokens were controlling the behaviour of the patients.\n\nResponse costs has been shown to work in suppressing a variety of behaviours such as smoking, overeating or stuttering with a diverse group of clinical populations ranging from sociopaths to school children. These behaviours that have been suppressed using this technique often do not recover when the punishment contingency is withdrawn. Also undesirable side effects that are usually seen with punishment are not typically found when using the response cost technique.\n\nBy nature, behavioural therapies are empirical (data-driven), contextual (focused on the environment and context), functional (interested in the effect or consequence a behaviour ultimately has), probabilistic (viewing behaviour as statistically predictable), monistic (rejecting mind–body dualism and treating the person as a unit), and relational (analysing bidirectional interactions).\n\nBehavioural therapy develops, adds and provides behavioural intervention strategies and programs for clients, and training to people who care to facilitate successful lives in the communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "690464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690464", "title": "Buddha-nature", "text": "Buddha-nature\n\nBuddha-nature or Buddha Principle refers to several related terms, most notably \"tathāgatagarbha\" and \"buddhadhātu\". \"Tathāgatagarbha\" means \"the womb\" or \"embryo\" (\"garbha\") of the \"thus-gone\" (\"tathagata\"), or \"containing a tathagata\", while \"buddhadhātu\" literally means \"Buddha-realm\" or \"Buddha-substrate\".\n\n\"Tathāgatagarbha\" has a wide range of (sometimes conflicting) meanings in Indian and later East Asian and Tibetan Buddhist literature. Debates on what the term means continues to be a major part of Mahayana Buddhist scholastics.\n\nFor example, the Tibetan scholar Go Lotsawa outlined four meanings of the term \"Tathāgatagarbha\" as used by Indian Buddhist scholars generally: (1) As an emptiness that is a nonimplicative negation, (2) the luminous nature of the mind, (3) alaya-vijñana (store-consciousness), (4) all bodhisattvas and sentient beings.\n\nThe term \"tathāgatagarbha\" may mean \"embryonic tathāgata\", \"womb of the tathāgata\", or \"containing a tathagata\". Various meanings may all be brought into mind when the term \"tathagatagarbha\" is being used.\n\nThe Sanskrit term \"tathāgatagarbha\" is a compound of two terms, \"tathāgata\" and \"garbha\":\n\nThe Chinese translated the term \"tathāgatagarbha\" as (, or \"Tathāgata's (\"rúlái\") storehouse\" (\"zàng\"). According to Brown, \"storehouse\" may indicate both \"that which enfolds or contains something\", or \"that which is itself enfolded, hidden or contained by another.\" The Tibetan translation is \"de bzhin gsegs pa'i snyin po\", which cannot be translated as \"womb\" (\"mngal\" or \"lhums\"), but as \"embryonic essence\", \"kernel\" or \"heart\". The term \"heart\" was also used by Mongolian translators.\n\nThe term \"tathagatagarbha\" is translated and interpreted in various ways by western translators and scholars:\n\nThe term \"Buddha-nature\" (, ) is closely related in meaning to the term \"tathāgatagarbha\", but is not a translation of this term. It refers to what is essential in the human being.\n\nThe corresponding Sanskrit term is \"buddhadhātu\". It has two meanings, namely the nature of the Buddha, equivalent to the term dharmakāya, and the cause of the Buddha. The link between the cause and the result is the nature (\"dhātu\") which is common to both, namely the dharmadhātu.\n\nMatsumoto Shirō also points out that \"Buddha-nature\" translates the Sanskrit-term buddhadhātu, a \"place to put something,\" a \"foundation,\" a \"locus.\" According to Shirō, it does not mean \"original nature\" or \"essence,\" nor does it mean the \"possibility of the attainment of Buddhahood,\" \"the original nature of the Buddha,\" or \"the essence of the Buddha.\"\n\nIn the Vajrayana, the term for Buddha-nature is \"sugatagarbha\".\n\nAccording to Wayman, the idea of the tathagatagarbha is grounded on sayings by the Buddha that there is something called the luminous mind (\"prabhasvara citta\"), \"which is only adventitiously covered over by defilements (agantukaklesa)\" The luminous mind is mentioned in a passage from the Anguttara Nikaya: \"Luminous, monks, is the mind. And it is defiled by incoming defilements.\" The Mahāsāṃghika school coupled this idea of the luminous mind with the idea of the mulavijnana, the substratum consciousness that serves as the basis consciousness.\n\nFrom the idea of the luminous mind emerged the idea that the awakened mind is the pure (\"visuddhi\"), undefiled mind. In the tathagatagarbha-sutras it is this pure consciousness that is regarded to be the seed from which Buddhahood grows:\nKarl Brunnholzl writes that the first probable mention of the term is in the \"Ekottarika Agama\" (though here it is used in a different way then in later texts). The passage states:If someone devotes himself to the Ekottarikagama, Then he has the \"tathagatagarbha\". Even if his body cannot exhaust defilements in this life, In his next life he will attain supreme wisdom.This tathāgatagarbha idea was the result of an interplay between various strands of Buddhist thought, on the nature of human consciousness and the means of awakening. Gregory comments on this origin of the Tathagatagarba-doctrine: \"The implication of this doctrine [...] is that enlightenment is the natural and true state of the mind.\"\n\nAccording to Wayman, the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" (1st-3rd century CE) was the next step in the development of the Buddha-nature thought after the concept of the luminous mind:\nThe \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra\" does not contain a \"singular discussion of the concept\", but the idea of \"a universal penetration of sentient beings by the wisdom of the Buddha (\"buddhajñāna\")\" was complementary to the concept of the Buddha-womb.\nThe basic idea of the \"Avataṃsaka Sūtra \" is the unity of the absolute and the relative:\n\nAll levels of reality are related and interpenetrated. This is depicted in the image of Indra's net. This \"unity in totality allows every individual entity of the phenomenal world its uniqueness without attributing an inherent nature to anything\".\n\nThe \"Lotus Sutra (\"Skt\": Saddharma Puṇḍarīka Sūtra)\", written between 100 BCE and 200 CE, does not mention Buddha-nature, but shares other themes and ideas with the later tathāgatagarbha sūtras like the \"tathāgatagarbha sūtra\" and some scholars theorize that it was an influence on these texts.\n\nThe tenth chapter emphasizes, in accordance with the Bodhisattva-ideal of the Mahayana teachings, that everyone can be liberated. All living beings can become a buddha, not only monks and nuns, but also laypeople, śrāvakas, bodhisattvas, and non-human creatures. It also details that all living beings can be a 'teacher of the Dharma'.\n\nThe twelfth chapter of the \"Lotus Sutra\" details that the potential to become enlightened is universal among all people, even the historical Devadatta has the potential to become a buddha. The story of Devadatta is followed by another story about a dragon princess who is both a nāga and a female, whom the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī proclaims will reach enlightenment immediately, in her present form.\n\nThere are several major Indian texts which discuss the idea of Buddha-nature and they are often termed the tathāgatagarbha sūtras. According to Brunnholzl \"the earliest mahayana sutras that are based on and discuss the notion of tathagatagarbha as the buddha potential that is innate in all sentient beings began to appear in written form in the late second and early third century.\" Their ideas became very influential in East Asian Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism. Mahayana sutras which mention this doctrine include the \"Tathāgatagarbha sūtra\", \"Anunatva-Apurnatva-Nirdesa,\" \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra,\" \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra, Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra\" and the \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra.\"\n\nThe \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\" (200-250 CE) is considered (...) \"the earliest expression of this (the tathāgatagarbha doctrine) and the term \"tathāgatagarbha\" itself seems to have been coined in this very sutra.\" It states that one is already or primordially awakened and that all beings already have perfect buddhahood within themselves but do not recognize it because it is covered over by afflictions.\n\nAnother one of these texts, the \"Ghanavyuha Sutra\" (as quoted by Longchenpa) states that the tathāgatagarbha is the ground of all things:\n\nThe \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\" (3rd century CE), also named \"The Lion's Roar of Queen Srimala\", centers on the teaching of the tathagatagarbha as \"ultimate soteriological principle\". Regarding the tathāgatagarbha, it states:\n\nIn the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\" there are two possible states for the tathāgatagarbha:\n\nThe sutra itself states it this way:\n\nThe early Buddha-nature concept as expressed in the seminal 'tathagatagarbha sutra' named the \"Nirvana Sutra\" is, according to Kevin Trainor, as follows: \"Sentient beings are said to possess a sacred nature that is the basis for them becoming buddhas [...] this buddha-nature is in fact our true nature [...] universal and completely unsullied by whatever psychological and karmic state an individual may be in.\"\n\nThe \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" (written 2nd century CE) was very influential in the Chinese reception of the Buddhist teachings. The \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" linked the concept of tathāgatagarbha with the buddhadhātu. Kosho Yamamoto points out that the \"Nirvana Sutra\" contains a series of equations: \"Thus, there comes about the equation of: Buddha Body <nowiki>=</nowiki> Dharmakaya <nowiki>=</nowiki> eternal body <nowiki>=</nowiki> eternal Buddha <nowiki>=</nowiki> Eternity.\" According to Shimoda Masahiro, the authors of the \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" were leaders and advocates of stupa worship. The term \"buddhadhātu\" originally referred to relics. In the \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\", it came to be used in place of the concept of \"tathāgatagārbha\". The authors used the teachings of the \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\" to reshape the worship of the physical relics of the Buddha into worship of the inner Buddha as a principle of salvation. Sasaki, in a review of Shimoda, conveys a key premise of Shimoda's work, namely, that the origins of Mahayana Buddhism and the \"Nirvana Sutra\" are entwined.\n\nThe Buddha-nature is always present, in all times and in all beings. This does not mean that sentient beings are at present endowed with the qualities of a Buddha, but that they will have those qualities in the future. It is obscured from worldly vision by the screening effect of tenacious negative mental afflictions within each being. Once these negative mental states have been eliminated, however, the Buddha-dhatu is said to shine forth unimpededly and the Buddha-sphere (Buddha-dhatu/ visaya) can then be consciously \"entered into\", and therewith deathless Nirvana attained:\n\nAccording to Sallie B. King, it does not represent a major innovation, and is rather unsystematic, which made it \"a fruitful one for later students and commentators, who were obliged to create their own order and bring it to the text\". According to King, its most important innovation is the linking of the term \"buddhadhatu\" with \"tathagatagarbha\". The sutra presents the Buddha-nature or tathagatagarbha as a \"Self\". The \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\" refers to a true self. \"The \"Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṅa Sūtra\", especially influential in East Asian Buddhist thought, goes so far as to speak of it as our true self (ātman). Its precise metaphysical and ontological status is, however, open to interpretation in the terms of different Mahāyāna philosophical schools; for the Madhyamikas it must be empty of its own existence like everything else; for the Yogacarins, following the Laṅkāvatāra, it can be identified with store consciousness, as the receptacle of the seeds of awakening. Paul Williams states: \"[...] it is obvious that the \"Mahaparinirvana Sutra\" does not consider it impossible for a Buddhist to affirm an atman provided it is clear what the correct understanding of this concept is, and indeed the sutra clearly sees certain advantages in doing so.\" but it speaks about Buddha-nature in so many different ways, that Chinese scholars created a list of types of Buddha-nature that could be found in the text. Paul Williams also notes:\n\nThe \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" (compiled 350-400 CE) synthesized the tathagatagarba-doctrine and the ālāya-vijñāna doctrine. The Lankavatara Sutra \"assimilates Tathagata-garbha thought to the Yogacara-viewpoint, and this assimilation is further developed in [...] The Treatise on the Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana\". According to the Lankavatara Sutra \"tathāgatagarbha\" is identical to the \"ālaya-vijñāna\", known prior to awakening as the storehouse-consciousness or 8th consciousness. The ālāya-vijñāna is supposed to contain the pure seed, or tathagatagarbha, from which awakening arises.\n\nThe Lankavatara-sutra contains tathagata-garba thought, but also warns against reification of the idea of Buddha-nature, and presents it as an aid to attaining awakening:\n\nAccording to Alex and Hideko Wayman, the equation of tathagatagarbha and ālāya-vijñāna in the Lankavatara fails:\n\nThe \"tathāgatagarbha\" doctrine was also widely discussed by Indian Mahayana scholars in treatises or commentaries, called śāstra, the most influential of which was the Ratnagotravibhāga (5th century CE).\n\nThe Ratnagotravibhāga, also called \"Uttaratantraśāstra\" (5th century CE), is an Indian śāstra in which synthesised all the major elements and themes of the tathāgatagārbha theory. It gives an overview of authoritative tathāgatagarbha sutras, mentioning the \"Tathāgatagarbha Sūtra\", the \"Śrīmālādevī Siṃhanāda Sūtra\", \"Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra\", the \"Aṅgulimālīya Sūtra\", the \"Anunatva-Apurnatva-Nirdesa\" and the \"Mahābherīharaka-sūtra\". It presents the tathāgatagarbha as \"an ultimate, unconditional reality that is simultaneously the inherent, dynamic process towards its complete manifestation\". Mundane and enlightened reality are seen as complementary:\n\nIn the \"Ratnagotravibhāga\", the tathāgatagarbha is seen as having three specific characteristics: (1) dharmakaya, (2) suchness, and (3) disposition, as well as the general characteristic (4) non-conceptuality.\n\nAccording to the \"Ratnagotravibhāga\", all sentient beings have \"the embryo of the Tathagata\" in three senses:\n\n\nThe Ratnagotravibhāga equates enlightenment with the nirvāṇa-realm and the dharmakāya. It gives a variety of synonyms for \"garbha\", the most frequently used being \"gotra\" and \"dhatu\".\n\nThis text also explains the tathāgatagarbha in terms of luminous mind:The luminous nature of the mind Is unchanging, just like space.\n\nIndian Madhyamaka philosophers interpreted the theory as a description of emptiness and as a non implicative negation. Bhaviveka's \"Tarkajvala\" states:[The expression] “possessing the tathagata heart” is [used] because emptiness, signlessness, wishlessness, and so on, exist in the mind streams of all sentient beings. However, it is not something like a permanent and all-pervasive person that is the inner agent. For we find [passages] such as “All phenomena have the nature of emptiness, signlessness, and wishlessness. What is emptiness, signlessness, and wishlessness is the Tathagata.”Candrakirti's \"Madhyamakāvatārabhāsya\" states:One should know that since [the alaya-consciousness] follows the nature of all entities, it is nothing but emptiness that is taught through the term “alaya-consciousness.”Go Lotsawa states that this statement is referencing the tathāgatagarbha doctrine. Candrakirti's \"Madhyamakāvatārabhāsya\" also argues, basing itself on the Lankavatara sutra, that \"the statement of the emptiness of sentient beings being a buddha adorned with all major and minor marks is of expedient meaning\".\n\nKamalasila's (c. 740-795) \"Madhyamakaloka\" associates tathāgatagarbha with luminosity and luminosity with emptiness:This statement “All sentient beings possess the tathāgata heart” teaches that all are suitable to attain the state of unsurpassable completely perfect awakening since it is held that the term tathāgata expresses that the dharmadhātu, which is characterized by personal and phenomenal identitylessness, is natural luminosity.Uniquely among Madhyamaka texts, some texts attributed to Nagarjuna, mainly poetic works like the \"Dharmadhatustava, Cittavajrastava\", and \"Bodhicittavivarana\" associate the term tathāgatagarbha with the luminous nature of the mind.\n\nAccording to Brunnholzl, \"all early Indian Yogacara masters (such as Asanga, Vasubandhu, Sthiramati, and Asvabhava), if they refer to the term tathāgatagarbha at all, always explain it as nothing but suchness in the sense of twofold identitylessness\".\n\nSome later Yogacara scholars spoke of the tathāgatagarbha in more positive terms, such as Jñanasrimitra who in his \"Sakarasiddhi\" equates it with the appearances of lucidity (prakasarupa). Likewise, Brunnholzl notes that \"Ratnakarasanti generally describes the tathagata heart as being equivalent to naturally luminous mind, nondual self-awareness, and the perfect nature (which he considers to be an implicative negation and not a nonimplicative negation).\"\n\nThe Yogacara concept of the alaya-vijñana (store consciousness) also came to be associated by some scholars with the tathāgatagarbha. This can be seen in sutras like the Lankavatara, the Srimaladevi and in the translations of Paramartha. The concept of the ālaya-vijñāna originally meant defiled consciousness: defiled by the workings of the five senses and the mind. It was also seen as the mūla-vijñāna, the base-consciousness or \"stream of consciousness\" from which awareness and perception spring.\n\nTo account for the notion of Buddha-nature in all beings, with the Yogacara belief in the Five Categories of Beings, Yogacara scholars in China such as Tz'u-en (慈恩, 632-682) the first patriarch in China, advocated two types of nature: the latent nature found in all beings (理佛性) and the Buddha-nature in practice (行佛性). The latter nature was determined by the innate seeds in the alaya.\n\nAround 300 CE, the Yogacara school systematized the prevalent ideas on the nature of the Buddha in the Trikaya or \"three-body doctrine\". According to this doctrine, Buddhahood has three aspects:\n\nThey may be described as follows:\nThe tathāgatagarbha idea was extremely influential in the development of East Asian Buddhism. When Buddhism was introduced to China, in the 1st century CE, Buddhism was understood through comparisons of its teachings to Chinese terms and ways of thinking. Chinese Buddhist thinkers like Zhi Mindu, Zhidun, and Huiyuan (d. 433) interpreted Buddhist concepts in terms of the Chinese neo-daoist philosophy called ‘dark learning’ (\"xuanxue\"). This tendency was only later countered by the work of Chinese Madhyamaka scholar-translators like Kumarajiva.\n\nThe buddha nature idea was introduced into China with the translation of the Mahaparanirvana sutra in the early fifth century and this text became the central source of buddha nature doctrine in Chinese Buddhism. Based on their understanding of the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra some Chinese Buddhists supposed that the teaching of the Buddha-nature was, as stated by that sutra, the final Buddhist teaching, and that there is an essential truth above sunyata and the two truths. This idea was interpreted as being similar to the ideas of Dao and Principle (Li) in Chinese philosophy.\n\nThe Awakening of Faith was very influential in the development of Chinese Buddhism said to have been translated by Paramartha (499-569). While the text is traditionally attributed to , no Sanskrit version of the text is extant. The earliest known versions are written in Chinese, and contemporary scholars believe that the text is a Chinese composition.\n\nThe \"Awakening of Faith in the Mahayana\" offers a synthesis of Chinese buddhist thinking. It sees the Buddha-nature doctrine as a cosmological theory, in contrast to the Indo-Tibetan tradition, where the soteriological aspect is emphasized. It described the \"One Mind\" which \"includes in itself all states of being of the phenomenal and transcendental world\". It tried to harmonize the ideas of the tathāgatagarbha and ālāya-vijñāna:\nIn the Awakening of Faith the 'one mind' has two aspects, namely tathata, suchness, the things as they are, and samsara, the cycle of birth and death. This text was in line with an essay by Emperor Wu of the Liang dynasty (reign 502-549 CE), in which he postulated a pure essence, the enlightened mind, trapped in darkness, which is ignorance. By this ignorance the pure mind is trapped in samsara. This resembles the tathāgatagarba and the idea of the defilement of the luminous mind. In a commentary on this essay Shen Yue stated that insight into this true essence is awakened by stopping the thoughts - a point of view which is also being found in the \"Platform Sutra\" of Huineng.\n\nThe joining together of these different ideas supported the notion of the ekayāna, the one vehicle: absolute oneness, all-pervading Buddha-wisdom and original enlightenment as a holistic whole. This synthesis was a reflection of the unity which was attained in China with the united Song dynasty.\n\nBy the 6th century CE buddha nature had been well established in Chinese Buddhism and a wide variety of theories developed to explain it. One influential figure who wrote about buddha nature was Ching-ying Hui-yuan (523-592 CE), a Chinese Yogacarin who argued for a kind of idealism which held that: \"All dharmas without exception originate and are formed from the true[-mind], and other than the true[-mind], there exists absolutely nothing which can give rise to false thoughts.\" Ching-ying Hui-yuan equated this 'true mind' with the alaya-vijñana, the tathāgatagarbha and \"Buddha-nature\" (\"fóxìng\") and held that it was an essence, a true consciousness and a metaphysical principle that ensured that all sentient beings will reach enlightenment. According to Ming-Wood Liu \"Hui-yuan's interpretation of the Buddha-nature doctrine represents the culmination of a long process of transformation of the \"Buddha-nature\" from a basically practical to an ontological concept.\"\n\nThe Chinese Yogacara school was also split on the relationship between the tathāgatagarbha and ālayavijñāna. Fa-shang (495-580), representing the southern Yogacara, asserted that they were separate, that the alaya was illusiory and impure while buddha nature was the ultimate source of all phenomenal reality. In the northern school meanwhile, it was held that the alaya and buddha nature were the same pure support for all phenomena. In the sixth and seventh centuries, the Yogacara theory became associated with a substantialist non-dual metaphysics which saw buddha nature as an eternalistic ground. This idea was promoted by figures like Fazang and Ratnamati.\n\nIn contrast with the Chinese Yogacara view, the Chinese Madhyamaka scholar Jizang (549–623 CE) sought to remove all ontological connotations of the term as a metaphysical reality and saw buddha nature as being synonymous with terms like \"tathata,\" \"dharmadhatu,\" \"ekayana,\" \"wisdom, <nowiki>\"</nowiki> \"ultimate reality,\" \"middle way\" and also the wisdom that contemplates dependent origination. In formulating his view, Jizang was influenced by the earlier Chinese Madhyamaka thinker Sengzhao (384–414 CE) who was a key figure in outlining an understanding of emptiness which was based on the Indian sources and not on Daoist concepts which previous Chinese Buddhists had used. Jizang used the compound “Middle Way-buddha nature” (\"zhongdao foxing\" 中道佛 性) to refer to his view. Jizang was also one of the first Chinese philosophers to famously argue that plants and insentient objects have Buddha nature, which he also termed true reality and universal principle (\"dao\").\n\nIn the 20th century, the influential Chinese master Yin Shun drew on Chinese Madhyamaka to argue against any Yogacara influenced view that buddha nature was an underlying permanent ground of reality and instead supported the view that buddha nature teachings are just an expedient means. Yin Shun, drawing on his study of Indian Madhyamaka promoted the emptiness of all things as the ultimate Buddhist truth, and argued that the buddha nature teaching was a provisional teaching taught in order to ease the fear of some Buddhists regarding emptiness as well as to attract those people who have an affinity to the idea of a Self or Brahman. Later after taking up the Buddhist path, they would be introduced to the truth of emptiness.\n\nIn the Tiantai school, the primary figure is the scholar Zhiyi. According to Paul L. Swanson, none of Zhiyi's works discuss buddha nature explicitly at length however. Yet it is still an important concept in his philosophy, which is seen as synonymous with the ekayana principle outlined in the Lotus Sutra. Swanson argues that for Zhiyi, buddha nature is:an active threefold process which involves the way reality is, the wisdom to see reality as it is, and the practice required to attain this wisdom. Buddha Nature is threefold: the three aspects of reality, wisdom, and practice are interdependent--one aspect does not make any sense without the others.Buddha nature for Zhiyi therefore has three aspects which he bases on passages from the Lotus sutra and the Nirvana sutra:\n\n\nThe later Tiantai scholar Zhanran would expand the Tiantai view of buddha nature, which he saw as synonymous with suchness, to argue for the idea that insentient rocks and plants also have buddha nature.\n\nIn Chan Buddhism, buddha nature tends to be seen as the (non-substantial) essential nature of all beings. But the Zen tradition also emphasizes that buddha nature is śūnyatā, the absence of an independent and substantial \"self\".\n\nChan masters from Huineng in 7th-century China to Hakuin Ekaku in 18th-century Japan to Hsu Yun in 20th-century China, have all taught that the process of awakening begins with the light of the mind turning around within the 8th consciousness, so that the \"ālayavijñāna\", also known as the \"tathāgatagarbha\", is transformed into the \"bright mirror wisdom\". The \"Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra\" presents the Chan/Zen Buddhist view of the \"tathāgatagarbha\":\nWhen this active transformation is complete, the other seven consciousnesses are also transformed. The 7th consciousness of delusive discrimination becomes transformed into the \"equality wisdom\". The 6th consciousness of thinking sense becomes transformed into the \"profound observing wisdom\", and the 1st to 5th consciousnesses of the five sensory senses become transformed into the \"all-performing wisdom\".\n\nThe Chan master Mazu Daoyi (709–788) developed a radical interpretation of buddha nature, famously stating that it was nothing less than ordinary mind and that all beings were already enlightened from the start.\n\nThe influential Chan patriarch Guifeng Zongmi (780–841) interpreted Buddha nature as “empty tranquil awareness” (\"k’ung-chi chih\"), which he took from the Ho-tse school of Chan. Following the Srimala sutra, he interpreted the theory of emptiness as presented in the Prajñaparamita sutras as provisional and saw buddha nature as the definitive teaching of Buddhism.\n\nAccording to Heng-Ching Shih, the teaching of the universal Buddha-nature does not intend to assert the existence of substantial, entity-like self endowed with excellent features of a Buddha. Rather, Buddha-nature simply represents the potentiality to be realized in the future.\n\nHsing Yun, forty-eighth patriarch of the Linji school, equates the Buddha-nature with the dharmakāya in line with pronouncements in key tathāgatagarbha sūtras. He defines these two as:\nIn the Korean \"Vajrasamādhi Sūtra\" (685 CE), the tathāgatagarbha is presented as being possessed of two elements, one essential, immutable, changeless and still, the other active and salvational:\n\nNichiren (1222–1282) was a Buddhist monk who taught devotion to the \"Lotus Sutra\" as the exclusive means to attain enlightenment, and the chanting of Namu Myōhō Renge Kyō as the essential practice of the teaching. Nichiren Buddhism includes various schools with diverging interpretations of Nichiren's teachings.\n\nNichiren Buddhism views the Buddha nature as \"The inner potential for attaining Buddhahood\", common to all people.\nBased on the \"Lotus Sutra\", Nichiren maintained that \"all living being possess the Buddha nature\", being the inherent potential to attain Buddhahood: \"The Buddha nature refers to the potential for attaining Buddhahood, a state of awakening filled with compassion and wisdom.\"\n\nThe emphasis in Nichiren Buddhism is on \"revealing the Buddha nature\" - or attaining Buddhahood – in this lifetime through chanting the name of the Dharma of the Lotus Sutra: \"[T]the Buddha nature within us is summoned forth and manifested by our chanting of Nam-myoho-renge-kyo.\"\n\nThe potential for Buddhahood exists in the whole spectrum of the Ten Worlds of life, and this means that all people, including evil doers, have Buddha nature, which remains as a dormant possibility or a theoretical potential in the field of emptiness or non-substantiality until it is materialized in reality through Buddhist practice.\n\nIn his letter \"Opening the Eyes of Wooden and painted Images\" Nichiren explains that insentient matter (such as trees, mandalas, images, statues) also possess the Buddha nature, because they serve as objects of worship. This view regards the Buddha nature as the original nature of all manifestations of life – sentient and insentient – through their interconnectedness:\nThe founder of the Sōtō school of Zen Buddhism, Dōgen Zenji, held that Buddha-nature (\"busshō\" 佛性) was simply the true nature of reality and Being. This true nature was just impermanence, becoming and 'vast emptiness'. Because he saw the whole universe as an expression of Buddha-nature, he held that even grass and trees are Buddha nature. \nTherefore, the very impermanency of grass and tree, thicket and forest is the Buddha nature. The very impermanency of men and things, body and mind, is the Buddha nature. Nature and lands, mountains and rivers, are impermanent because they are the Buddha nature. Supreme and complete enlightenment, because it is impermanent, is the Buddha nature.\n\nThe founder of Sanbō Kyōdan lineage of Zen Buddhism, Yasutani Haku'un Roshi, also defined Buddha-nature in terms of the emptiness and impermanence of all dharmas:\nA famous reference to Buddha-nature in the Zen-tradition is the Mu-koan:\nThe founder of the Jōdo Shinshū of Pure Land Buddhism, Shinran, equated Buddha-Nature with shinjin.\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhist scholastics, there are two main camps of interpreting buddha nature. There are those who argue that \"tathāgatagarbha\" is just emptiness (described either as dharmadhatu, the nature of phenomena, or a nonimplicative negation) and there are those who see it as the union of the mind's emptiness and luminosity (which includes the buddha qualities).\n\nThe Gelug school of Tibetan Buddhism favors what is called the \"rangtong\" interpretation of Prasaṅgika Madhyamaka philosophy. They thus interpret Buddha nature as an expedient term for the emptiness of inherent existence. Other schools, especially the Jonang, and Kagyu have tended to accept the shentong, \"other-empty\", Madhyamaka philosophy, which discerns an Absolute which \"is empty of adventitious defilements which are intrinsically other than it, but is not empty of its own inherent existence\".\n\nThese interpretations of the tathagatagarbha-teachings has been a matter of intensive debates in Tibet.\n\nAn early Tibetan translator, Ngok Lotsawa (1050-1109) argues in his commentary to the Uttaratantra that Buddha nature is a non-implicative negation, which is to say that it is emptiness, as a \"total negation\" of inherent existence (\"svabhava\") that does not imply that anything is left un-negated (in terms of its \"svabhava\"). Another early figure, Chaba Chokyi Senge also argued that Buddha nature was a non-implicative negation. The Kadampa tradition generally followed Ngok Lotsawa by holding that Buddha nature was a nonimplicative negation. The Gelug school, which sees itself as a continuation of the Kadampas, also hold this view, while also holding, as Chaba did, that Buddha nature teachings are of expedient meaning.\n\nKedrub Jé Geleg Balsang (1385-1438), one of the main disciples of Tsongkhapa, defined the tathāgatagarbha thus:\"It is the emptiness of mind’s being empty of being really established that is called “the naturally pure true nature of the mind.” The naturally pure true nature of the mind in its phase of not being free from adventitious stains is called “sugata heart” or “naturally abiding disposition.\"Brunnholzl states that the view of Gyaltsab Darma Rinchen (1364-1432) is \"that the tathàgata heart is the state of a being in whom mind's emptiness is obscured, while buddhas by definition do not possess this tathàgata heart.\"\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama sees the Buddha-nature as the \"original clear light of mind\", but points out that it ultimately does not exist independently, because, like all other phenomena, it is of the nature of emptiness:\nSakya Pandita (1182-1251) sees the buddha nature as the dharmadhatu free from all reference points, and states that the teaching that buddha nature exists in all beings is of expedient meaning and that its basis is emptiness, citing Candrakirti's \"Madhyamakāvatārabhāsya\". The Sakya scholar Rongtön meanwhile, argued that buddha nature is suchness, with stains, or emptiness of the mind with stains.\n\nSakya scholar Buton Rinchen Drub (1290–1364), like the Gelugpas, held that the Buddha nature teachings were of expedient meaning and that that the naturally abiding disposition is nothing but emptiness, however unlike them, his view was that the basis for these teachings is the alaya-vijñana and also that buddha nature is the dharmakaya of a buddha but \"never exists in the great mass of sentient beings\".\n\nAccording to Brunnholzl, in the works of the influential Sakya scholar Gorampa Sonam Senge (1429-1489), buddha nature is \"nondual unity of minds lucidity and emptiness or awareness and emptiness free from all reference points. It is not mere emptiness because sheer emptiness cannot be the basis of both samsára and nirvána. However, it is not mere lucidity either because this lucidity is a conditioned entity and the tathágata heart is unconditioned.\"\n\nSakya Chokden meanwhile argues that the ultimate buddha nature is \"minds natural luminosity free from all extremes of reference points, which is the sphere of personally experienced wisdom and an implicative negation.\"\n\nThe Jonang school, whose foremost historical figure was the Tibetan scholar-monk Dolpopa Sherab Gyaltsen (1292–1361), sees the Buddha-nature as the very ground of the Buddha himself, as the \"permanent indwelling of the Buddha in the basal state\". According to Brunnholzl, Dolpopa, basing himself on certain \"tathāgatagarbha\" sutras, argued that the buddha nature is \"ultimately really established, everlasting, eternal, permanent, immutable (therzug), and being beyond dependent origination.\" This is the foundation of what is called the Shentong view.\n\nMoreover, the Buddhist tantric scripture entitled \"Chanting the Names of Mañjuśrī ()\", repeatedly exalts, as portrayed by Dolpopa, not the non-Self but the Self, and applies the following terms to this ultimate reality : 'The Buddha-Self, the beginningless Self, the solid Self, the diamond Self'. These terms are applied in a manner which reflects the cataphatic approach to Buddhism, typical of much of Dolpopa's writings.\n\nDr. Cyrus Stearns writes that Dolpopa's attitude to the 'third turning of the wheel' doctrines (i.e. the Buddha-nature teachings) is that they \"are the final definitive statements on the nature of ultimate reality, the primordial ground or substratum beyond the chain of dependent origination, and which is only empty of other, relative phenomena.\"\n\nIn the Nyingma school doctrines on buddha nature are generally marked by the tendency to align the idea with Dzogchen views as well as with Prasangika Madhyamaka, beginning with the work of Rongzom (1042-1136) and continuing into the work of Longchenpa (1308-1364) and Mipham (1846- 1912). Mipham Rinpoche, the most authoritative figure in modern Nyingma, adopted a view of buddha nature as the unity of appearance and emptiness, relating it to the descriptions of the Ground in Dzogchen as outlined by Longchenpa. This ground is said to be primordially pure (ka dag) and spontaneously present (Ihun grub).\n\nGermano writes that Dzogchen \"represents the most sophisticated interpretation of the so-called \"Buddha nature\" tradition within the context of Indo-Tibetan thought\".\n\nThe 19th/20th-century Nyingma scholar, Shechen Gyaltsap Gyurme Pema Namgyal, sees the Buddha nature as ultimate truth, nirvana, which is constituted of profundity, primordial peace and radiance:\n\nTulku Urgyen Rinpoche sees an identity between the Buddha-nature, dharmadhātu (essence of all phenomena and the noumenon) and the Three Vajras, saying:\nThe Nyingma meditation masters, Khenchen Palden Sherab and Khenpo Tsewang Dongyal, emphasise that the essential nature of the mind (the Buddha-nature) is not a blankness, but is characterized by wonderful qualities and a non-conceptual perfection that is already present and complete, it's just obscured and we fail to recognize it.\n\nSpeaking in the context of Nyingma, Dzogchen Ponlop expresses the view that there exists within vajrayana Buddhism the doctrine that we are already buddha: ‘... in the vajrayana, we are buddha \"right now\", in this very moment’ and that it is legitimate to have ‘vajra pride’ in our buddha mind and the already present qualities of enlightenment with which it is replete:\nAccording to Brunnholzl,Virtually all Kagyu masters hold the teaching on buddha nature to be of definitive meaning and deny that the tathagata heart is just sheer emptiness or a nonimplicative negation. Though the Kagyu approach has certain similarities with Dolpopa's view, it is generally less absolute than the latter's and shows several significant differences, such as not claiming that the buddha qualities exist in their full-blown form even in confused sentient beings and not making such an absolute distinction between the two realities as Dolpopa does (the exception is Jamgon Kongtrul Lodro Taye, who largely follows Taranatha and Dolpopa but at times blends their positions with the Third Karmapa's view).In Kagyu the view of the Third Karmapa is generally seen as the most authoritative. This is the view that buddha nature is \"mind's luminous ultimate nature or nondual wisdom, which is the basis of everything in samsara and nirvana.\"\nThrangu Rinpoche sees the Buddha nature as the indivisible oneness of wisdom and emptiness:\nThe Rimé movement is an ecumenical movement in Tibet which started as an attempt to reconcile the various Tibetan schools in the 19th century. In contrast to the Gelugpa, which adheres to the \"rang stong\", \"self-empty\", or Prasaṅgika point of view, the Rimé movement supports \"shen tong\" (\"gzhan tong\"), \"other-empty\", an essential nature which is \"pure radiant non-dual consciousness\". Jamgon Kongtrul says about the two systems:\n\nModern scholarship points to the various possible interpretations of Buddha Nature as either an essential self, as Sunyata, or as the \"inherent possibility\" of awakening.\n\nShenpen Hookham, Oxford Buddhist scholar and Tibetan lama of the Shentong tradition writes of the Buddha-nature or \"true self\" as something real and permanent, and already present within the being as uncompounded enlightenment. She calls it \"the Buddha within\", and comments:\nBuddhist scholar and chronicler, Merv Fowler, writes that the Buddha-nature really is present as an essence within each being. Fowler comments:\nAccording to Heng-Ching Shih, the \"tathāgatagarbha\"/Buddha-nature does not represent a substantial self (\"ātman\"). Rather, it is a positive language expression of emptiness (\"śūnyatā\"), which emphasizes the potentiality to realize Buddhahood through Buddhist practices. The intention of the teaching of \"tathāgatagarbha\"/Buddha nature is soteriological rather than theoretical.\n\nPaul Williams puts forward the Madhyamaka interpretation of the Buddha-nature as emptiness in the following terms:\nSeveral contemporary Japanese Buddhist scholars, headed under the label Critical Buddhism (\"hihan bukky\"ō, 批仏教), have been critical of Buddha-nature thought. According to Matsumoto Shiro and Hakamaya Noriaki of Komazawa University, essentialist conceptions of Buddha-nature are at odds with the fundamental Buddhist doctrine of dependent origination and non-self (\"anātman\"\")\". The Buddha nature doctrines which they label as \"dhātuvāda\" (“substantialism,”sometimes rendered “locus theory” or “topicalism”) and “generative monism” is not Buddhism at all. As defined by Matsumoto, this \"locus\" theory or \"dhātuvāda\" which he rejects as un-buddhist is:It is the theory that the single (\"eka, sama\") existent “locus” (\"dhatu\") or basis is the cause that produces the manifold phenomena or “super-loci” (\"dharmah\").Matsumoto further argues that:Tathagatagarbha thought was a Buddhist version of Hindu monism, formed by the influence of Hinduism gradually introduced into Buddhism, especially after the rise of Mahayana Buddhism.Other Japanese scholars responded to this view leading to a lively debate in Japan. Takasaki Jikido, a well known authority on \"tathagathagarbha\" thought, accepted that Buddha nature theories are similar to Upanishadic theories and that \"dhātuvāda\" is an accurate expression of the structure of these doctrines\",\" but argues that the Buddha nature texts are aware of this and that Buddha nature is not necessarily un-Buddhist or anti-Buddhist. Likewise, Hirakawa Akira, sees Buddha nature as the potential to attain Buddhahood which not static but ever changing and argues that \"dhātu\" does not necessarily mean substratum (he points to some Agamas which identify \"dhatu\" with \"pratitya-samutpada\").\n\nWestern scholars have reacted in different ways to this idea. Sallie B. King objects to their view, seeing the Buddha-nature as a metaphor for the potential in all beings to attain Buddhahood, rather than as an ontological reality. Robert H. Sharf notes that the worries of the Critical Buddhists is nothing new, for \"the early \"tathāgatagarbha\" scriptures betray a similar anxiety, as they tacitly acknowledge that the doctrine is close to, if not identical with, the heretical ātmavāda teachings of the non- Buddhists.\" He also notes how the \"Nirvāṇa-sūtra\" \"tacitly concedes the non-Buddhist roots of the \"tathāgatagarbha\" idea.\" Sharf also has pointed out how certain Southern Chan masters were concerned with other interpretations of Buddha nature, showing how the tendency to critique certain views of Buddha nature is not new in East Asian Buddhism.\n\nPeter N. Gregory has also argued that at least some East Asian interpretations of Buddha nature are equivalent to what Critical Buddhists call \"dhātuvāda,\" especially the work of Tsung-mi, who \"emphasizes the underlying ontological ground on which all phenomenal appearances (\"hsiang\") are based, which he variously refers to as the nature (\"hsing\"), the one mind (\"i-hsin\")...\". According to Dan Lusthaus, certain Chinese Buddhist ideologies which became dominant in the 8th century promoted the idea of an \"underlying metaphysical substratum\" or \"underlying, invariant, universal metaphysical 'source'\" and thus do seem to be a kind of \"dhātuvāda.\" According to Lusthaus \"in early T’ang China (7th–8th century) there was a deliberate attempt to divorce Chinese Buddhism from developments in India.\" Lusthaus notes that the Huayen thinker Fa-tsang was influential in this theological trend who promoted the idea that true Buddhism was about comprehending the \"One Mind that alone is the ground of reality\" (\"wei- hsin).\"\n\nPaul Williams too has criticised this view, saying that Critical Buddhism is too narrow in its definition of what constitutes Buddhism. According to Williams, \"We should abandon any simplistic identification of Buddhism with a straightforward not-Self definition\".\n\nSutton agrees with Williams' critique on the narrowness of any single interpretation. In discussing the inadequacy of modern scholarship on Buddha-nature, Sutton states, \n\nHe goes on to point out that the term \"tathāgatagarbha\" has up to six possible connotations. Of these, he says the three most important are:\nOf these three, Sutton claims that only the third connotation has any soteriological significance, while the other two posit Buddha-nature as an ontological reality and essential nature behind all phenomena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19349161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349161", "title": "Cambrian explosion", "text": "Cambrian explosion\n\nThe Cambrian explosion or Cambrian radiation was an event approximately in the Cambrian period when most major animal phyla appeared in the fossil record. It lasted for about 20–25 million years. It resulted in the divergence of most modern metazoan phyla. The event was accompanied by major diversification of other organisms.\n\nBefore the Cambrian explosion, most organisms were simple, composed of individual cells occasionally organized into colonies. Over the following 70 to 80 million years, the rate of diversification accelerated, and the variety of life began to resemble that of today. Almost all present animal phyla appeared during this period.\n\nThe Cambrian explosion has generated extensive scientific debate.\n\nThe seemingly rapid appearance of fossils in the \"Primordial Strata\" was noted by William Buckland in the 1840s, and in his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", Charles Darwin discussed the then inexplicable lack of earlier fossils as one of the main difficulties for his theory of descent with slow modification through natural selection. The long-running puzzlement about the appearance of the Cambrian fauna, seemingly abruptly, without precursor, centers on three key points: whether there really was a mass diversification of complex organisms over a relatively short period of time during the early Cambrian; what might have caused such rapid change; and what it would imply about the origin of animal life. Interpretation is difficult due to a limited supply of evidence, based mainly on an incomplete fossil record and chemical signatures remaining in Cambrian rocks.\n\nThe first discovered Cambrian fossils were trilobites, described by Edward Lhuyd, the curator of Oxford Museum, in 1698. Although their evolutionary importance was not known, on the basis of their old age, William Buckland (1784–1856) realised that a dramatic step-change in the fossil record had occurred around the base of what we now call the Cambrian. Nineteenth-century geologists such as Adam Sedgwick and Roderick Murchison used the fossils for dating rock strata, specifically for establishing the Cambrian and Silurian periods. By 1859, leading geologists including Roderick Murchison, were convinced that what was then called the lowest Silurian stratum showed the origin of life on Earth, though others, including Charles Lyell, differed. In \"On the Origin of Species\", Charles Darwin considered this sudden appearance of a solitary group of trilobites, with no apparent antecedents, and absence of other fossils, to be \"undoubtedly of the gravest nature\" among the difficulties in his theory of natural selection. He reasoned that earlier seas had swarmed with living creatures, but that their fossils had not been found due to the imperfections of the fossil record. In the sixth edition of his book, he stressed his problem further as:\n\nAmerican paleontologist Charles Walcott, who studied the Burgess Shale fauna, proposed that an interval of time, the \"Lipalian\", was not represented in the fossil record or did not preserve fossils, and that the ancestors of the Cambrian animals evolved during this time.\n\nEarlier fossil evidence has since been found. The earliest claim is that the history of life on earth goes back : Rocks of that age at Warrawoona, Australia, were claimed to contain fossil stromatolites, stubby pillars formed by colonies of microorganisms. Fossils (\"Grypania\") of more complex eukaryotic cells, from which all animals, plants, and fungi are built, have been found in rocks from , in China and Montana. Rocks dating from contain fossils of the Ediacara biota, organisms so large that they are likely multicelled, but very unlike any modern organism. In 1948, Preston Cloud argued that a period of \"eruptive\" evolution occurred in the Early Cambrian, but as recently as the 1970s, no sign was seen of how the 'relatively' modern-looking organisms of the Middle and Late Cambrian arose.\n\nThe intense modern interest in this \"Cambrian explosion\" was sparked by the work of Harry B. Whittington and colleagues, who, in the 1970s, reanalysed many fossils from the Burgess Shale and concluded that several were as complex as, but different from, any living animals. The most common organism, \"Marrella\", was clearly an arthropod, but not a member of any known arthropod class. Organisms such as the five-eyed \"Opabinia\" and spiny slug-like \"Wiwaxia\" were so different from anything else known that Whittington's team assumed they must represent different phyla, seemingly unrelated to anything known today. Stephen Jay Gould's popular 1989 account of this work, \"Wonderful Life\", brought the matter into the public eye and raised questions about what the explosion represented. While differing significantly in details, both Whittington and Gould proposed that all modern animal phyla had appeared almost simultaneously in a rather short span of geological period. This view led to the modernization of Darwin's tree of life and the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which Eldredge and Gould developed in the early 1970s and which views evolution as long intervals of near-stasis \"punctuated\" by short periods of rapid change.\n\nOther analyses, some more recent and some dating back to the 1970s, argue that complex animals similar to modern types evolved well before the start of the Cambrian.\n\nRadiometric dates for much of the Cambrian, obtained by analysis of radioactive elements contained within rocks, have only recently become available, and for only a few regions.\n\nRelative dating (\"A\" was before \"B\") is often assumed sufficient for studying processes of evolution, but this, too, has been difficult, because of the problems involved in matching up rocks of the same age across different continents.\n\nTherefore, dates or descriptions of sequences of events should be regarded with some caution until better data become available.\n\nFossils of organisms' bodies are usually the most informative type of evidence. Fossilization is a rare event, and most fossils are destroyed by erosion or metamorphism before they can be observed. Hence, the fossil record is very incomplete, increasingly so as earlier times are considered. Despite this, they are often adequate to illustrate the broader patterns of life's history. Also, biases exist in the fossil record: different environments are more favourable to the preservation of different types of organism or parts of organisms. Further, only the parts of organisms that were already mineralised are usually preserved, such as the shells of molluscs. Since most animal species are soft-bodied, they decay before they can become fossilised. As a result, although 30-plus phyla of living animals are known, two-thirds have never been found as fossils.\nThe Cambrian fossil record includes an unusually high number of lagerstätten, which preserve soft tissues. These allow paleontologists to examine the internal anatomy of animals, which in other sediments are only represented by shells, spines, claws, etc. – if they are preserved at all. The most significant Cambrian lagerstätten are the early Cambrian Maotianshan shale beds of Chengjiang (Yunnan, China) and Sirius Passet (Greenland); the middle Cambrian Burgess Shale (British Columbia, Canada); and the late Cambrian Orsten (Sweden) fossil beds.\n\nWhile lagerstätten preserve far more than the conventional fossil record, they are far from complete. Because lagerstätten are restricted to a narrow range of environments (where soft-bodied organisms can be preserved very quickly, e.g. by mudslides), most animals are probably not represented; further, the exceptional conditions that create lagerstätten probably do not represent normal living conditions. In addition, the known Cambrian lagerstätten are rare and difficult to date, while Precambrian lagerstätten have yet to be studied in detail.\n\nThe sparseness of the fossil record means that organisms usually exist long before they are found in the fossil record – this is known as the Signor–Lipps effect.\n\nTrace fossils consist mainly of tracks and burrows, but also include coprolites (fossil feces) and marks left by feeding. Trace fossils are particularly significant because they represent a data source that is not limited to animals with easily fossilized hard parts, and reflects organisms' behaviour. Also, many traces date from significantly earlier than the body fossils of animals that are thought to have been capable of making them. While exact assignment of trace fossils to their makers is generally impossible, traces may, for example, provide the earliest physical evidence of the appearance of moderately complex animals (comparable to earthworms).\n\nSeveral chemical markers indicate a drastic change in the environment around the start of the Cambrian. The markers are consistent with a mass extinction, or with a massive warming resulting from the release of methane ice.\nSuch changes may reflect a cause of the Cambrian explosion, although they may also have resulted from an increased level of biological activity – a possible result of the explosion. Despite these uncertainties, the geochemical evidence helps by making scientists focus on theories that are consistent with at least one of the likely environmental changes.\n\nCladistics is a technique for working out the \"family tree\" of a set of organisms. It works by the logic that, if groups B and C have more similarities to each other than either has to group A, then B and C are more closely related to each other than either is to A. Characteristics that are compared may be anatomical, such as the presence of a notochord, or molecular, by comparing sequences of DNA or protein. The result of a successful analysis is a hierarchy of clades – groups whose members are believed to share a common ancestor. The cladistic technique is sometimes problematic, as some features, such as wings or camera eyes, evolved more than once, convergently – this must be taken into account in analyses.\n\nFrom the relationships, it may be possible to constrain the date that lineages first appeared. For instance, if fossils of B or C date to X million years ago and the calculated \"family tree\" says A was an ancestor of B and C, then A must have evolved more than X million years ago.\n\nIt is also possible to estimate how long ago two living clades diverged – i.e. about how long ago their last common ancestor must have lived  – by assuming that DNA mutations accumulate at a constant rate. These \"molecular clocks\", however, are fallible, and provide only a very approximate timing: they are not sufficiently precise and reliable for estimating when the groups that feature in the Cambrian explosion first evolved, and estimates produced by different techniques vary by a factor of two. However, the clocks can give an indication of branching rate, and when combined with the constraints of the fossil record, recent clocks suggest a sustained period of diversification through the Ediacaran and Cambrian.\n\nA phylum is the highest level in the Linnaean system for classifying organisms. Phyla can be thought of as groupings of animals based on general body plan. Despite the seemingly different external appearances of organisms, they are classified into phyla based on their internal and developmental organizations. For example, despite their obvious differences, spiders and barnacles both belong to the phylum Arthropoda, but earthworms and tapeworms, although similar in shape, belong to different phyla. As chemical and genetic testing becomes more accurate, previously hypothesised phyla are often entirely reworked.\n\nA phylum is not a fundamental division of nature, such as the difference between electrons and protons. It is simply a very high-level grouping in a classification system created to describe all currently living organisms. This system is imperfect, even for modern animals: different books quote different numbers of phyla, mainly because they disagree about the classification of a huge number of worm-like species. As it is based on living organisms, it accommodates extinct organisms poorly, if at all.\n\nThe concept of stem groups was introduced to cover evolutionary \"aunts\" and \"cousins\" of living groups, and have been hypothesized based on this scientific theory. A crown group is a group of closely related living animals plus their last common ancestor plus all its descendants. A stem group is a set of offshoots from the lineage at a point earlier than the last common ancestor of the crown group; it is a relative concept, for example tardigrades are living animals that form a crown group in their own right, but Budd (1996) regarded them as also being a stem group relative to the arthropods.\n\nThe term \"Triploblastic\" means consisting of three layers, which are formed in the embryo, quite early in the animal's development from a single-celled egg to a larva or juvenile form. The innermost layer forms the digestive tract (gut); the outermost forms skin; and the middle one forms muscles and all the internal organs except the digestive system. Most types of living animal are triploblastic – the best-known exceptions are Porifera (sponges) and Cnidaria (jellyfish, sea anemones, etc.).\n\nThe bilaterians are animals that have right and left sides at some point in their life histories. This implies that they have top and bottom surfaces and, importantly, distinct front and back ends. All known bilaterian animals are triploblastic, and all known triploblastic animals are bilaterian. Living echinoderms (sea stars, sea urchins, sea cucumbers, etc.) 'look' radially symmetrical (like wheels) rather than bilaterian, but their larvae exhibit bilateral symmetry and some of the earliest echinoderms may have been bilaterally symmetrical. Porifera and Cnidaria are radially symmetrical, not bilaterian, and not triploblastic.\n\nThe term \"Coelomate\" means having a body cavity (coelom) containing the internal organs. Most of the phyla featured in the debate about the Cambrian explosion are coelomates: arthropods, annelid worms, molluscs, echinoderms, and chordates – the noncoelomate priapulids are an important exception. All known coelomate animals are triploblastic bilaterians, but some triploblastic bilaterian animals do not have a coelom – for example flatworms, whose organs are surrounded by unspecialized tissues.\n\nUnderstanding of the Cambrian explosion relies upon knowing what was there beforehand – did the event herald the sudden appearance of a wide range of animals and behaviours, or did such things exist beforehand?\n\nPhylogenetic analysis has been used to support the view that during the Cambrian explosion, metazoans (multi-celled animals) evolved monophyletically from a single common ancestor: flagellated colonial protists similar to modern choanoflagellates.\n\nChanges in the abundance and diversity of some types of fossil have been interpreted as evidence for \"attacks\" by animals or other organisms. Stromatolites, stubby pillars built by colonies of microorganisms, are a major constituent of the fossil record from about , but their abundance and diversity declined steeply after about . This decline has been attributed to disruption by grazing and burrowing animals.\n\nPrecambrian marine diversity was dominated by small fossils known as acritarchs. This term describes almost any small organic walled fossil – from the egg cases of small metazoans to resting cysts of many different kinds of green algae. After appearing around , acritarchs underwent a boom around , increasing in abundance, diversity, size, complexity of shape, and especially size and number of spines. Their increasingly spiny forms in the last 1 billion years may indicate an increased need for defence against predation. Other groups of small organisms from the Neoproterozoic era also show signs of antipredator defenses. A consideration of taxon longevity appears to support an increase in predation pressure around this time.\nIn general, the fossil record shows a very slow appearance of these lifeforms in the Precambrian, with many cyanobacterial species making up much of the underlying sediment.\n\nThe layers of the Doushantuo formation from around \nharbour microscopic fossils that may represent early bilaterians. Some have been described as animal embryos and eggs, although some may represent the remains of giant bacteria.\nAnother fossil, \"Vernanimalcula\", has been interpreted as a coelomate bilaterian,\nbut may simply be an infilled bubble.\n\nThese fossils form the earliest hard-and-fast evidence of animals, as opposed to other predators.\n\nThe traces of organisms moving on and directly underneath the microbial mats that covered the Ediacaran sea floor are preserved from the Ediacaran period, about . They were probably made by organisms resembling earthworms in shape, size, and how they moved. The burrow-makers have never been found preserved, but, because they would need a head and a tail, the burrowers probably had bilateral symmetry – which would in all probability make them bilaterian animals. They fed above the sediment surface, but were forced to burrow to avoid predators.\n\nAround the start of the Cambrian (about ), many new types of traces first appear, including well-known vertical burrows such as \"Diplocraterion\" and \"Skolithos\", and traces normally attributed to arthropods, such as \"Cruziana\" and \"Rusophycus\". The vertical burrows indicate that worm-like animals acquired new behaviours, and possibly new physical capabilities. Some Cambrian trace fossils indicate that their makers possessed hard exoskeletons, although they were not necessarily mineralised.\n\nBurrows provide firm evidence of complex organisms; they are also much more readily preserved than body fossils, to the extent that the absence of trace fossils has been used to imply the genuine absence of large, motile, bottom-dwelling organisms. They provide a further line of evidence to show that the Cambrian explosion represents a real diversification, and is not a preservational artefact.\n\nThis new habit changed the seafloor's geochemistry, and led to decreased oxygen in the ocean and increased CO2-levels in the seas and the atmosphere, resulting in global warming for tens of millions years, and could be responsible for mass extinctions. But as burrowing became established, it allowed an explosion of its own, for as burrowers disturbed the sea floor, they aerated it, mixing oxygen into the toxic muds. This made the bottom sediments more hospitable, and allowed a wider range of organisms to inhabit them – creating new niches and the scope for higher diversity.\n\nAt the start of the Ediacaran period, much of the acritarch fauna, which had remained relatively unchanged for hundreds of millions of years, became extinct, to be replaced with a range of new, larger species, which would prove far more ephemeral. This radiation, the first in the fossil record, is followed soon after by an array of unfamiliar, large, fossils dubbed the Ediacara biota, which flourished for 40 million years until the start of the Cambrian. Most of this \"Ediacara biota\" were at least a few centimeters long, significantly larger than any earlier fossils. The organisms form three distinct assemblages, increasing in size and complexity as time progressed.\n\nMany of these organisms were quite unlike anything that appeared before or since, resembling discs, mud-filled bags, or quilted mattresses – one palæontologist proposed that the strangest organisms should be classified as a separate kingdom, Vendozoa.\n\nAt least some may have been early forms of the phyla at the heart of the \"Cambrian explosion\" debate, having been interpreted as early molluscs (\"Kimberella\"), echinoderms (\"Arkarua\"); and arthropods (\"Spriggina\", \"Parvancorina\"). Still, debate exists about the classification of these specimens, mainly because the diagnostic features that allow taxonomists to classify more recent organisms, such as similarities to living organisms, are generally absent in the ediacarans. However, there seems little doubt that \"Kimberella\" was at least a triploblastic bilaterian animal. These organisms are central to the debate about how abrupt the Cambrian explosion was. If some were early members of the animal phyla seen today, the \"explosion\" looks a lot less sudden than if all these organisms represent an unrelated \"experiment\", and were replaced by the animal kingdom fairly soon thereafter (40M years is \"soon\" by evolutionary and geological standards).\n\nPaul Knauth, a geologist at Arizona State University, maintains that photosynthesizing organisms such as algae may have grown over a 750- to 800-million-year-old formation in Death Valley known as the Beck Spring Dolomite. In the early 1990s, samples from this 1,000-foot thick layer of dolomite revealed that the region housed flourishing mats of photosynthesizing, unicellular life forms which antedated the Cambrian explosion.\n\nMicrofossils have been unearthed from holes riddling the otherwise barren surface of the dolomite. These geochemical and microfossil findings support the idea that during the Precambrian period, complex life evolved both in the oceans and on land. Knauth contends that animals may well have had their origins in freshwater lakes and streams, and not in the oceans.\n\nSome 30 years later, a number of studies have documented an abundance of geochemical and microfossil evidence showing that life covered the continents as far back as 2.2 billion years ago. Many paleobiologists now accept the idea that simple life forms existed on land during the Precambrian, but are opposed to the more radical idea that multicellular life thrived on land more than 600 million years ago.\n\nThe first Ediacaran and lowest Cambrian (Nemakit-Daldynian) skeletal fossils represent tubes and problematic sponge spicules. The oldest sponge spicules are monaxon siliceous, aged around , known from the Doushantou Formation in China and from deposits of the same age in Mongolia, although the interpretation of these fossils as spicules has been challenged. In the late Ediacaran-lowest Cambrian, numerous tube dwellings of enigmatic organisms appeared. It was organic-walled tubes (e.g. \"Saarina\") and chitinous tubes of the sabelliditids (e.g. \"Sokoloviina\", \"Sabellidites\", \"Paleolina\") that prospered up to the beginning of the Tommotian. The mineralized tubes of \"Cloudina\", \"Namacalathus\", \"Sinotubulites\", and a dozen more of the other organisms from carbonate rocks formed near the end of the Ediacaran period from , as well as the triradially symmetrical mineralized tubes of anabaritids (e.g. \"Anabarites\", \"Cambrotubulus\") from uppermost Ediacaran and lower Cambrian. Ediacaran mineralized tubes are often found in carbonates of the stromatolite reefs and thrombolites, i.e. they could live in an environment adverse to the majority of animals.\n\nAlthough they are as hard to classify as most other Ediacaran organisms, they are important in two other ways. First, they are the earliest known calcifying organisms (organisms that built shells from calcium carbonate). Secondly, these tubes are a device to rise over a substrate and competitors for effective feeding and, to a lesser degree, they serve as armor for protection against predators and adverse conditions of environment. Some \"Cloudina\" fossils show small holes in shells. The holes possibly are evidence of boring by predators sufficiently advanced to penetrate shells. A possible \"evolutionary arms race\" between predators and prey is one of the hypotheses that attempt to explain the Cambrian explosion.\n\nIn the lowest Cambrian, the stromatolites were decimated. This allowed animals to begin colonization of warm-water pools with carbonate sedimentation. At first, it was anabaritids and \"Protohertzina\" (the fossilized grasping spines of chaetognaths) fossils. Such mineral skeletons as shells, sclerites, thorns, and plates appeared in uppermost Nemakit-Daldynian; they were the earliest species of halkierids, gastropods, hyoliths and other rare organisms. The beginning of the Tommotian has historically been understood to mark an explosive increase of the number and variety of fossils of molluscs, hyoliths, and sponges, along with a rich complex of skeletal elements of unknown animals, the first archaeocyathids, brachiopods, tommotiids, and others. Also soft-bodied extant phyla such as comb jellies, scalidophorans, entoproctans, horseshoe worms and lobopodians had armored forms. This sudden increase is partially an artefact of missing strata at the Tommotian type section, and most of this fauna in fact began to diversify in a series of pulses through the Nemakit-Daldynian and into the Tommotian.\n\nSome animals may already have had sclerites, thorns, and plates in the Ediacaran (e.g. \"Kimberella\" had hard sclerites, probably of carbonate), but thin carbonate skeletons cannot be fossilized in siliciclastic deposits. Older (~750 Ma) fossils indicate that mineralization long preceded the Cambrian, probably defending small photosynthetic algae from single-celled eukaryotic predators.\n\nTrace fossils (burrows, etc.) are a reliable indicator of what life was around, and indicate a diversification of life around the start of the Cambrian, with the freshwater realm colonized by animals almost as quickly as the oceans.\n\nFossils known as \"small shelly fauna\" have been found in many parts on the world, and date from just before the Cambrian to about 10 million years after the start of the Cambrian (the Nemakit-Daldynian and Tommotian ages; see timeline). These are a very mixed collection of fossils: spines, sclerites (armor plates), tubes, archeocyathids (sponge-like animals), and small shells very like those of brachiopods and snail-like molluscs – but all tiny, mostly 1 to 2 mm long.\n\nWhile small, these fossils are far more common than complete fossils of the organisms that produced them; crucially, they cover the window from the start of the Cambrian to the first lagerstätten: a period of time otherwise lacking in fossils. Hence, they supplement the conventional fossil record and allow the fossil ranges of many groups to be extended.\n\nThe earliest trilobite fossils are about 530 million years old, but the class was already quite diverse and worldwide, suggesting they had been around for quite some time.\nThe fossil record of trilobites began with the appearance of trilobites with mineral exoskeletons – not from the time of their origin.\n\nThe earliest generally accepted echinoderm fossils appeared a little bit later, in the Late Atdabanian; unlike modern echinoderms, these early Cambrian echinoderms were not all radially symmetrical.\n\nThese provide firm data points for the \"end\" of the explosion, or at least indications that the crown groups of modern phyla were represented.\n\nThe Burgess Shale and similar lagerstätten preserve the soft parts of organisms, which provide a wealth of data to aid in the classification of enigmatic fossils. It often preserved complete specimens of organisms only otherwise known from dispersed parts, such as loose scales or isolated mouthparts. Further, the majority of organisms and taxa in these horizons are entirely soft-bodied, hence absent from the rest of the fossil record. Since a large part of the ecosystem is preserved, the ecology of the community can also be tentatively reconstructed.\nHowever, the assemblages may represent a \"museum\": a deep-water ecosystem that is evolutionarily \"behind\" the rapidly diversifying fauna of shallower waters.\n\nBecause the lagerstätten provide a mode and quality of preservation that is virtually absent outside of the Cambrian, many organisms appear completely different from anything known from the conventional fossil record. This led early workers in the field to attempt to shoehorn the organisms into extant phyla; the shortcomings of this approach led later workers to erect a multitude of new phyla to accommodate all the oddballs. It has since been realised that most oddballs diverged from lineages before they established the phyla known today – slightly different designs, which were fated to perish rather than flourish into phyla, as their cousin lineages did.\n\nThe preservational mode is rare in the preceding Ediacaran period, but those assemblages known show no trace of animal life – perhaps implying a genuine absence of macroscopic metazoans.\n\nCrustaceans, one of the four great modern groups of arthropods, are very rare throughout the Cambrian. Convincing crustaceans were once thought to be common in Burgess Shale-type biotas, but none of these individuals can be shown to fall into the crown group of \"true crustaceans\". The Cambrian record of crown-group crustaceans comes from microfossils. The Swedish Orsten horizons contain later Cambrian crustaceans, but only organisms smaller than 2 mm are preserved. This restricts the data set to juveniles and miniaturised adults.\n\nA more informative data source is the organic microfossils of the Mount Cap formation, Mackenzie Mountains, Canada. This late Early Cambrian assemblage () consists of microscopic fragments of arthropods' cuticle, which is left behind when the rock is dissolved with hydrofluoric acid. The diversity of this assemblage is similar to that of modern crustacean faunas. Analysis of fragments of feeding machinery found in the formation shows that it was adapted to feed in a very precise and refined fashion. This contrasts with most other early Cambrian arthropods, which fed messily by shovelling anything they could get their feeding appendages on into their mouths. This sophisticated and specialised feeding machinery belonged to a large (about 30 cm) organism, and would have provided great potential for diversification; specialised feeding apparatus allows a number of different approaches to feeding and development, and creates a number of different approaches to avoid being eaten.\n\nAfter an extinction at the Cambrian–Ordovician boundary, another radiation occurred, which established the taxa that would dominate the Palaeozoic.\n\nDuring this radiation, the total number of orders doubled, and families tripled, increasing marine diversity to levels typical of the Palaeozoic, and disparity to levels approximately equivalent to today's.\n\nThe event lasted for about the next 20–25 million years. Different authors break the explosion down into stages in different ways.\n\nEd Landing recognizes three stages: Stage 1, spanning the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary, corresponds to a diversification of biomineralizing animals and of deep and complex burrows; Stage 2, corresponding to the radiation of molluscs and stem-group Brachiopods (hyoliths and tommotiids), which apparently arose in intertidal waters; and Stage 3, seeing the Atdabanian diversification of trilobites in deeper waters, but little change in the intertidal realm.\n\nGraham Budd synthesises various schemes to produce a compatible view of the SSF record of the Cambrian explosion, divided slightly differently into four intervals: a \"Tube world\", lasting from , spanning the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary, dominated by Cloudina, Namacalathus and pseudoconodont-type elements; a \"Sclerite world\", seeing the rise of halkieriids, tommotiids, and hyoliths, lasting to the end of the Fortunian (c. 525 Ma); a brachiopod world, perhaps corresponding to the as yet unratified Cambrian Stage 2; and Trilobite World, kicking off in Stage 3.\n\nComplementary to the shelly fossil record, trace fossils can be divided into five subdivisions: \"Flat world\" (late Ediacaran), with traces restricted to the sediment surface; Protreozoic III (after Jensen), with increasing complexity; \"pedum\" world, initiated at the base of the Cambrian with the base of the \"T.pedum\" zone (see discussion at Cambrian#Dating the Cambrian); \"Rusophycus\" world, spanning and thus corresponding exactly to the periods of Sclerite World and Brachiopod World under the SSF paradigm; and \"Cruziana\" world, with an obvious correspondence to Trilobite World.\n\nThere is strong evidence for species of Cnidaria and Porifera existing in the Ediacaran and possible members of Porifera even before that during the Cryogenian. Bryozoans don't appear in the fossil record until after the Cambrian, in the Lower Ordovician.\n\nThe fossil record as Darwin knew it seemed to suggest that the major metazoan groups appeared in a few million years of the early to mid-Cambrian, and even in the 1980s, this still appeared to be the case.\n\nHowever, evidence of Precambrian Metazoa is gradually accumulating. If the Ediacaran \"Kimberella\" was a mollusc-like protostome (one of the two main groups of coelomates), the protostome and deuterostome lineages must have split significantly before (deuterostomes are the other main group of coelomates). Even if it is not a protostome, it is widely accepted as a bilaterian. Since fossils of rather modern-looking cnidarians (jellyfish-like organisms) have been found in the Doushantuo lagerstätte, the cnidarian and bilaterian lineages must have diverged well over .\n\nTrace fossils and predatory borings in \"Cloudina\" shells provide further evidence of Ediacaran animals. Some fossils from the Doushantuo formation have been interpreted as embryos and one (\"Vernanimalcula\") as a bilaterian coelomate, although these interpretations are not universally accepted. Earlier still, predatory pressure has acted on stromatolites and acritarchs since around .\n\nSome say that the evolutionary change was accelerated by an order of magnitude, but the presence of Precambrian animals somewhat dampens the \"bang\" of the explosion; not only was the appearance of animals gradual, but their evolutionary radiation (\"diversification\") may also not have been as rapid as once thought. Indeed, statistical analysis shows that the Cambrian explosion was no faster than any of the other radiations in animals' history. However, it does seem that some innovations linked to the explosion – such as resistant armour – only evolved once in the animal lineage; this makes a lengthy Precambrian animal lineage harder to defend. Further, the conventional view that all the phyla arose in the Cambrian is flawed; while the phyla may have diversified in this time period, representatives of the crown groups of many phyla do not appear until much later in the Phanerozoic. Further, the mineralised phyla that form the basis of the fossil record may not be representative of other phyla, since most mineralised phyla originated in a benthic setting. The fossil record is consistent with a Cambrian explosion that was limited to the benthos, with pelagic phyla evolving much later.\n\nEcological complexity among marine animals increased in the Cambrian, as well later in the Ordovician. However, recent research has overthrown the once-popular idea that disparity was exceptionally high throughout the Cambrian, before subsequently decreasing. In fact, disparity remains relatively low throughout the Cambrian, with modern levels of disparity only attained after the early Ordovician radiation.\n\nThe diversity of many Cambrian assemblages is similar to today's, and at a high (class/phylum) level, diversity is thought by some to have risen relatively smoothly through the Cambrian, stabilizing somewhat in the Ordovician. This interpretation, however, glosses over the astonishing and fundamental pattern of basal polytomy and phylogenetic telescoping at or near the Cambrian boundary, as seen in most major animal lineages. Thus Harry Blackmore Whittington's questions regarding the abrupt nature of the Cambrian explosion remain, and have yet to be satisfactorily answered.\n\nBudd and Mann suggested that the Cambrian explosion was the result of a type of survivorship bias called the \"Push of the past\". As groups at their origin tend to go extinct, it follows that any long-lived group would have experienced an unusually rapid rate of diversification early on, creating the illusion of a general speed-up in diversification rates. However, rates of diversification could remain at background levels and still generate this sort of effect in the surviving lineages.\n\nDespite the evidence that moderately complex animals (triploblastic bilaterians) existed before and possibly long before the start of the Cambrian, it seems that the pace of evolution was exceptionally fast in the early Cambrian. Possible explanations for this fall into three broad categories: environmental, developmental, and ecological changes. Any explanation must explain both the timing and magnitude of the explosion.\n\nEarth's earliest atmosphere contained no free oxygen (O); the oxygen that animals breathe today, both in the air and dissolved in water, is the product of billions of years of photosynthesis. Cyanobacteria were the first organisms to evolve the ability to photosynthesize, introducing a steady supply of oxygen into the environment. Initially, oxygen levels did not increase substantially in the atmosphere. The oxygen quickly reacted with iron and other minerals in the surrounding rock and ocean water. Once a saturation point was reached for the reactions in rock and water, oxygen was able to exist as a gas in its diatomic form. Oxygen levels in the atmosphere increased substantially afterward. As a general trend, the concentration of oxygen in the atmosphere has risen gradually over about the last 2.5 billion years.\n\nOxygen levels seem to have a positive correlation with diversity in eukaryotes well before the Cambrian period. The last common ancestor of all extant eukaryotes is thought to have lived around 1.8 billion years ago. Around 800 million years ago, there was a notable increase in the complexity and number of eukaryotes species in the fossil record. Before the spike in diversity, eukaryotes are thought to have lived in highly sulfuric environments. Sulfide interferes with mitochondrial function in aerobic organisms, limiting the amount of oxygen that could be used to drive metabolism. Oceanic sulfide levels decreased around 800 million years ago, which supports the importance of oxygen in eukaryotic diversity.\n\nThe shortage of oxygen might well have prevented the rise of large, complex animals. The amount of oxygen an animal can absorb is largely determined by the area of its oxygen-absorbing surfaces (lungs and gills in the most complex animals; the skin in less complex ones); but, the amount needed is determined by its volume, which grows faster than the oxygen-absorbing area if an animal's size increases equally in all directions. An increase in the concentration of oxygen in air or water would increase the size to which an organism could grow without its tissues becoming starved of oxygen. However, members of the Ediacara biota reached metres in length tens of millions of years before the Cambrian explosion. Other metabolic functions may have been inhibited by lack of oxygen, for example the construction of tissue such as collagen, required for the construction of complex structures, or to form molecules for the construction of a hard exoskeleton. However, animals are not affected when similar oceanographic conditions occur in the Phanerozoic; there is no convincing correlation between oxygen levels and evolution, so oxygen may have been no more a prerequisite to complex life than liquid water or primary productivity.\n\nThe amount of ozone (O) required to shield Earth from biologically lethal UV radiation, wavelengths from 200 to 300 nanometers (nm), is believed to have been in existence around the Cambrian explosion. The presence of the ozone layer may have enabled the development of complex life and life on land, as opposed to life being restricted to the water.\n\nIn the late Neoproterozoic (extending into the early Ediacaran period), the Earth suffered massive glaciations in which most of its surface was covered by ice. This may have caused a mass extinction, creating a genetic bottleneck; the resulting diversification may have given rise to the Ediacara biota, which appears soon after the last \"Snowball Earth\" episode.\nHowever, the snowball episodes occurred a long time before the start of the Cambrian, and it is hard to see how so much diversity could have been caused by even a series of bottlenecks; the cold periods may even have \"delayed\" the evolution of large size organisms.\n\nNewer research suggests that volcanically active midocean ridges caused a massive and sudden surge of the calcium concentration in the oceans, making it possible for marine organisms to build skeletons and hard body parts.\nAlternatively a high influx of ions could have been provided by the widespread erosion that produced Powell's Great Unconformity.\n\nAn increase of calcium may also have been caused by erosion of the Transgondwanan Supermountain that existed at the time the explosion. The roots of the mountain are preserved in present-day East Africa as an orogen.\n\nA range of theories are based on the concept that minor modifications to animals' development as they grow from embryo to adult may have been able to cause very large changes in the final adult form. The Hox genes, for example, control which organs individual regions of an embryo will develop into. For instance, if a certain \"Hox\" gene is expressed, a region will develop into a limb; if a different Hox gene is expressed in that region (a minor change), it could develop into an eye instead (a phenotypically major change).\n\nSuch a system allows a large range of disparity to appear from a limited set of genes, but such theories linking this with the explosion struggle to explain why the origin of such a development system should by itself lead to increased diversity or disparity. Evidence of Precambrian metazoans combines with molecular data to show that much of the genetic architecture that could feasibly have played a role in the explosion was already well established by the Cambrian.\n\nThis apparent paradox is addressed in a theory that focuses on the physics of development. It is proposed that the emergence of simple multicellular forms provided a changed context and spatial scale in which novel physical processes and effects were mobilized by the products of genes that had previously evolved to serve unicellular functions. Morphological complexity (layers, segments, lumens, appendages) arose, in this view, by self-organization.\n\nHorizontal gene transfer has also been identified as a possible factor in the rapid acquisition of the biochemical capability of biomineralization among organisms during this period, based on evidence that the gene for a critical protein in the process was originally transferred from a bacterium into sponges.\n\nThese focus on the interactions between different types of organism. Some of these hypotheses deal with changes in the food chain; some suggest arms races between predators and prey, and others focus on the more general mechanisms of coevolution. Such theories are well suited to explaining why there was a rapid increase in both disparity and diversity, but they must explain why the \"explosion\" happened when it did.\n\nEvidence for such an extinction includes the disappearance from the fossil record of the Ediacara biota and shelly fossils such as \"Cloudina\", and the accompanying perturbation in the record.\n\nMass extinctions are often followed by adaptive radiations as existing clades expand to occupy the ecospace emptied by the extinction. However, once the dust had settled, overall disparity and diversity returned to the pre-extinction level in each of the Phanerozoic extinctions.\n\nAndrew Parker has proposed that predator-prey relationships changed dramatically after eyesight evolved. Prior to that time, hunting and evading were both close-range affairs – smell, vibration, and touch were the only senses used. When predators could see their prey from a distance, new defensive strategies were needed. Armor, spines, and similar defenses may also have evolved in response to vision. He further observed that, where animals lose vision in unlighted environments such as caves, diversity of animal forms tends to decrease. Nevertheless, many scientists doubt that vision could have caused the explosion. Eyes may well have evolved long before the start of the Cambrian. It is also difficult to understand why the evolution of eyesight would have caused an explosion, since other senses, such as smell and pressure detection, can detect things at a greater distance in the sea than sight can; but the appearance of these other senses apparently did not cause an evolutionary explosion.\n\nThe ability to avoid or recover from predation often makes the difference between life and death, and is therefore one of the strongest components of natural selection. The pressure to adapt is stronger on the prey than on the predator: if the predator fails to win a contest, it loses a meal; if the prey is the loser, it loses its life.\n\nBut, there is evidence that predation was rife long before the start of the Cambrian, for example in the increasingly spiny forms of acritarchs, the holes drilled in \"Cloudina\" shells, and traces of burrowing to avoid predators. Hence, it is unlikely that the \"appearance\" of predation was the trigger for the Cambrian \"explosion\", although it may well have exhibited a strong influence on the body forms that the \"explosion\" produced. However, the intensity of predation does appear to have increased dramatically during the Cambrian as new predatory \"tactics\" (such as shell-crushing) emerged. This rise of predation during the Cambrian was confirmed by the temporal pattern of the median predator ratio at the scale of genus, in fossil communities covering the Cambrian and Ordovician periods, but this pattern is not correlated to diversification rate. This lack of correlation between predator ratio and diversification over the Cambrian and Ordovician suggests that predators did not trigger the large evolutionary radiation of animals during this interval. Thus the role of predators as triggerers of diversification may have been limited to the very beginning of the \"Cambrian explosion\".\n\nGeochemical evidence strongly indicates that the total mass of plankton has been similar to modern levels since early in the Proterozoic. Before the start of the Cambrian, their corpses and droppings were too small to fall quickly towards the seabed, since their drag was about the same as their weight. This meant they were destroyed by scavengers or by chemical processes before they reached the sea floor.\n\nMesozooplankton are plankton of a larger size. Early Cambrian specimens filtered microscopic plankton from the seawater. These larger organisms would have produced droppings and corpses that were large enough to fall fairly quickly. This provided a new supply of energy and nutrients to the mid-levels and bottoms of the seas, which opened up a huge range of new possible ways of life. If any of these remains sank uneaten to the sea floor they could be buried; this would have taken some carbon out of circulation, resulting in an increase in the concentration of breathable oxygen in the seas (carbon readily combines with oxygen).\n\nThe initial herbivorous mesozooplankton were probably larvae of benthic (seafloor) animals. A larval stage was probably an evolutionary innovation driven by the increasing level of predation at the seafloor during the Ediacaran period.\n\nMetazoans have an amazing ability to increase diversity through coevolution. This means that an organism's traits can lead to traits evolving in other organisms; a number of responses are possible, and a different species can potentially emerge from each one. As a simple example, the evolution of predation may have caused one organism to develop a defence, while another developed motion to flee. This would cause the predator lineage to split into two species: one that was good at chasing prey, and another that was good at breaking through defences. Actual coevolution is somewhat more subtle, but, in this fashion, great diversity can arise: three quarters of living species are animals, and most of the rest have formed by coevolution with animals.\n\nEvolving organisms inevitably change the environment they evolve in. The Devonian colonization of land had planet-wide consequences for sediment cycling and ocean nutrients, and was likely linked to the Devonian mass extinction. A similar process may have occurred on smaller scales in the oceans, with, for example, the sponges filtering particles from the water and depositing them in the mud in a more digestible form; or burrowing organisms making previously unavailable resources available for other organisms.\n\nThe explosion may not have been a significant evolutionary event. It may represent a threshold being crossed: for example a threshold in genetic complexity that allowed a vast range of morphological forms to be employed. This genetic threshold may have a correlation to the amount of oxygen available to organisms. Using oxygen for metabolism produces much more energy than anaerobic processes. Organisms that use more oxygen have the opportunity to produce more complex proteins, providing a template for further evolution. These proteins translate into larger, more complex structures that allow organisms better to adapt to their environments. With the help of oxygen, genes that code for these proteins could contribute to the expression of complex traits more efficiently. Access to a wider range of structures and functions would allow organisms to evolve in different directions, increasing the number of niches that could be inhabited. Furthermore, organisms had the opportunity to become more specialized in their own niches.\n\nThe \"Cambrian explosion\" can be viewed as two waves of metazoan expansion into empty niches: first, a coevolutionary rise in diversity as animals explored niches on the Ediacaran sea floor, followed by a second expansion in the early Cambrian as they became established in the water column. The rate of diversification seen in the Cambrian phase of the explosion is unparalleled among marine animals: it affected all metazoan clades of which Cambrian fossils have been found. Later radiations, such as those of fish in the Silurian and Devonian periods, involved fewer taxa, mainly with very similar body plans. Although the recovery from the Permian-Triassic extinction started with about as few animal species as the Cambrian explosion, the recovery produced far fewer significantly new types of animals.\n\nWhatever triggered the early Cambrian diversification opened up an exceptionally wide range of previously unavailable ecological niches. When these were all occupied, limited space existed for such wide-ranging diversifications to occur again, because strong competition existed in all niches and incumbents usually had the advantage. If a wide range of empty niches had continued, clades would be able to continue diversifying and become disparate enough for us to recognise them as different phyla; when niches are filled, lineages will continue to resemble one another long after they diverge, as limited opportunity exists for them to change their life-styles and forms.\n\nThere were two similar explosions in the evolution of land plants: after a cryptic history beginning about , land plants underwent a uniquely rapid adaptive radiation during the Devonian period, about . Furthermore, Angiosperms (flowering plants) originated and rapidly diversified during the Cretaceous period.\n\n\nTimeline References:\n\n"}
{"id": "106238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106238", "title": "Cognition", "text": "Cognition\n\nCognition is \"the mental action or process of acquiring knowledge and understanding through thought, experience, and the senses\". It encompasses processes such as attention, the formation of knowledge, memory and working memory, judgment and evaluation, reasoning and \"computation\", problem solving and decision making, comprehension and production of language. Cognitive processes use existing knowledge and generate new knowledge.\n\nThe processes are analyzed from different perspectives within different contexts, notably in the fields of linguistics, anesthesia, neuroscience, psychiatry, psychology, education, philosophy, anthropology, biology, systemics, logic, and computer science. These and other different approaches to the analysis of cognition are synthesised in the developing field of cognitive science, a progressively autonomous academic discipline.\n\nThe word \"cognition\" comes from the Latin verb \"cognosco\" (\"con\", 'with', and \"gnōscō\", 'know'; itself a cognate of the Greek verb γι(γ)νώσκω, \"gi(g)nόsko\", meaning 'I know, perceive'), meaning 'to conceptualize' or 'to recognize'.\n\nThe word \"cognition\" dates back to the 15th century, when it meant \"thinking and awareness\". Attention to cognitive processes came about more than eighteen centuries earlier, however, beginning with Aristotle (384–322 BC) and his interest in the inner workings of the mind and how they affect the human experience. Aristotle focused on cognitive areas pertaining to memory, perception, and mental imagery. He placed great importance on ensuring that his studies were based on empirical evidence, that is, scientific information that is gathered through observation and conscientious experimentation. Two millennia later, as psychology emerged as a burgeoning field of study in Europe and then gained a following in America, other scientists like Wilhelm Wundt, Herman Ebbinghaus, Mary Whiton Calkins, and William James would offer their contributions to the study of human cognition.\n\nWilhelm Wundt (1832–1920) emphasized the notion of what he called introspection: examining the inner feelings of an individual. With introspection, the subject had to be careful to describe his or her feelings in the most objective manner possible in order for Wundt to find the information scientific. Though Wundt's contributions are by no means minimal, modern psychologists find his methods to be quite subjective and choose to rely on more objective procedures of experimentation to make conclusions about the human cognitive process.\n\nHermann Ebbinghaus (1850–1909) conducted cognitive studies that mainly examined the function and capacity of human memory. Ebbinghaus developed his own experiment in which he constructed over 2,000 syllables made out of nonexistent words, for instance EAS. He then examined his own personal ability to learn these non-words. He purposely chose non-words as opposed to real words to control for the influence of pre-existing experience on what the words might symbolize, thus enabling easier recollection of them. Ebbinghaus observed and hypothesized a number of variables that may have affected his ability to learn and recall the non-words he created. One of the reasons, he concluded, was the amount of time between the presentation of the list of stimuli and the recitation or recall of same. Ebbinghaus was the first to record and plot a \"learning curve,\" and a \"forgetting curve.\" His work heavily influenced the study of serial position and its effect on memory, discussed in subsequent sections.\n\nMary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) was an influential American pioneer in the realm of psychology. Her work also focused on the human memory capacity. A common theory, called the recency effect, can be attributed to the studies that she conducted. The recency effect, also discussed in the subsequent experiment section, is the tendency for individuals to be able to accurately recollect the final items presented in a sequence of stimuli. Calkin's theory is closely related to the aforementioned study and conclusion of the memory experiments conducted by Hermann Ebbinghaus.\n\nWilliam James (1842–1910) is another pivotal figure in the history of cognitive science. James was quite discontent with Wundt's emphasis on introspection and Ebbinghaus' use of nonsense stimuli. He instead chose to focus on the human learning experience in everyday life and its importance to the study of cognition. James' most significant contribution to the study and theory of cognition was his textbook \"Principles of Psychology\" that preliminarily examines aspects of cognition such as perception, memory, reasoning, and attention.\n\nIn psychology, the term \"cognition\" is usually used within an information processing view of an individual's psychological functions (see cognitivism), and it is the same in cognitive engineering; in a branch of social psychology called social cognition, the term is used to explain attitudes, attribution, and group dynamics.\n\nHuman cognition is conscious and unconscious, concrete or abstract, as well as intuitive (like knowledge of a language) and conceptual (like a model of a language). It encompasses processes such as memory, association, concept formation, pattern recognition, language, attention, perception, action, problem solving and mental imagery. Traditionally, emotion was not thought of as a cognitive process, but now much research is being undertaken to examine the cognitive psychology of emotion; research is also focused on one's awareness of one's own strategies and methods of cognition, which is called metacognition.\n\nWhile few people would deny that cognitive processes are a function of the brain, a cognitive theory will not necessarily make reference to the brain or to biological processes (compare neurocognitive). It may purely describe behavior in terms of information flow or function. Relatively recent fields of study such as neuropsychology aim to bridge this gap, using cognitive paradigms to understand how the brain implements the information-processing functions (see also cognitive neuroscience), or to understand how pure information-processing systems (e.g., computers) can simulate human cognition (see also artificial intelligence). The branch of psychology that studies brain injury to infer normal cognitive function is called cognitive neuropsychology. The links of cognition to evolutionary demands are studied through the investigation of animal cognition.\n\nFor years, sociologists and psychologists have conducted studies on cognitive development or the construction of human thought or mental processes.\n\nJean Piaget was one of the most important and influential people in the field of Developmental Psychology. He believed that humans are unique in comparison to animals because we have the capacity to do \"abstract symbolic reasoning.\" His work can be compared to Lev Vygotsky, Sigmund Freud, and Erik Erikson who were also great contributors in the field of Developmental Psychology. Today, Piaget is known for studying the cognitive development in children. He studied his own three children and their intellectual development and came up with a theory that describes the stages children pass through during development.\n\nSerial position\n\nThe serial position experiment is meant to test a theory of memory that states that when information is given in a serial manner, we tend to remember information in the beginning of the sequence, called the primacy effect, and information in the end of the sequence, called the recency effect. Consequently, information given in the middle of the sequence is typically forgotten, or not recalled as easily. This study predicts that the recency effect is stronger than the primacy effect, because the information that is most recently learned is still in working memory when asked to be recalled. Information that is learned first still has to go through a retrieval process. This experiment focuses on human memory processes.\n\nWord superiority\n\nThe word superiority experiment presents a subject with a word, or a letter by itself, for a brief period of time, i.e. 40ms, and they are then asked to recall the letter that was in a particular location in the word. By theory, the subject should be better able to correctly recall the letter when it was presented in a word than when it was presented in isolation. This experiment focuses on human speech and language.\n\nBrown-Peterson\n\nIn the Brown-Peterson experiment, participants are briefly presented with a trigram and in one particular version of the experiment, they are then given a distractor task, asking them to identify whether a sequence of words are in fact words, or non-words (due to being misspelled, etc.). After the distractor task, they are asked to recall the trigram from before the distractor task. In theory, the longer the distractor task, the harder it will be for participants to correctly recall the trigram. This experiment focuses on human short-term memory.\n\nMemory span\n\nDuring the memory span experiment, each subject is presented with a sequence of stimuli of the same kind; words depicting objects, numbers, letters that sound similar, and letters that sound dissimilar. After being presented with the stimuli, the subject is asked to recall the sequence of stimuli that they were given in the exact order in which it was given. In one particular version of the experiment, if the subject recalled a list correctly, the list length was increased by one for that type of material, and vice versa if it was recalled incorrectly. The theory is that people have a memory span of about seven items for numbers, the same for letters that sound dissimilar and short words. The memory span is projected to be shorter with letters that sound similar and with longer words.\n\nVisual search\n\nIn one version of the visual search experiment, a participant is presented with a window that displays circles and squares scattered across it. The participant is to identify whether there is a green circle on the window. In the \"featured\" search, the subject is presented with several trial windows that have blue squares or circles and one green circle or no green circle in it at all. In the \"conjunctive\" search, the subject is presented with trial windows that have blue circles or green squares and a present or absent green circle whose presence the participant is asked to identify. What is expected is that in the feature searches, reaction time, that is the time it takes for a participant to identify whether a green circle is present or not, should not change as the number of distractors increases. Conjunctive searches where the target is absent should have a longer reaction time than the conjunctive searches where the target is present. The theory is that in feature searches, it is easy to spot the target, or if it is absent, because of the difference in color between the target and the distractors. In conjunctive searches where the target is absent, reaction time increases because the subject has to look at each shape to determine whether it is the target or not because some of the distractors if not all of them, are the same color as the target stimuli. Conjunctive searches where the target is present take less time because if the target is found, the search between each shape stops.\n\nKnowledge representation\n\nThe semantic network of knowledge representation systems has been studied in various paradigms. One of the oldest paradigms is the leveling and sharpening of stories as they are repeated from memory studied by Bartlett. The semantic differential used factor analysis to determine the main meanings of words, finding that value or \"goodness\" of words is the first factor. More controlled experiments examine the categorical relationships of words in free recall. The hierarchical structure of words has been explicitly mapped in George Miller's Wordnet. More dynamic models of semantic networks have been created and tested with neural network experiments based on computational systems such as latent semantic analysis (LSA), Bayesian analysis, and multidimensional factor analysis. The semantics (meaning) of words is studied by all the disciplines of cognitive science.\n\nAn emergent field of research, referred to as \"Team Cognition\", is arising in military sciences. \"Team cognition\" indicates “an emergent property of teams that results from the interplay of individual cognition and team process behaviors [...] [Team cognition] underlies team performance” (Arizona State University East, 2005, Cooke NJ, 2005).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26592825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26592825", "title": "De Groot dual", "text": "De Groot dual\n\nIn mathematics, in particular in topology, the de Groot dual (after Johannes de Groot) of a topology \"τ\" on a set \"X\" is the topology \"τ\"* whose closed sets are generated by compact saturated subsets of (\"X\", \"τ\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2996632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2996632", "title": "Disemvoweling", "text": "Disemvoweling\n\nDisemvoweling, disemvowelling (see doubled \"L\"), or disemvowelment of a piece of alphabetic text is rewriting it with all the vowel letters removed. This original sentence:\nwould, after being disemvowelled, look like this:\nDisemvoweling is a common feature of SMS language as disemvoweling requires little cognitive effort to read, so it is often used where space is costly. The word \"disemvoweling\" is a portmanteau combining \"vowel\" and \"disembowel\".\n\nThe word was used with precisely this meaning in the 1939 novel \"Finnegans Wake\" (p. 515).\n\nA technique dubbed \"splat out\" was used by Usenet moderators to prevent flamewars, by substituting a \"splat\" (i.e., asterisk) for some letters, often the vowels, of highly charged words in postings. Examples include \"Nazi\"→\"N*z*\", \"evolution\"→\"*v*l*t**n\", \"gun control\"→\"g*n c*ntr*l\". \"The purpose is not to make the word unrecognizable but to make it a mention rather than a use.\" The term \"disemvoweling\" —attested from 1990 — was occasionally used for the splat-out of vowels.\n\nTeresa Nielsen Hayden used the vowel-deletion technique in 2002 for internet forum moderation on her blog \"Making Light\". This was termed \"disemvoweling\" by Arthur D. Hlavaty later in the same thread.\n\nNielsen Hayden joined the group blog \"Boing Boing\" as community manager in August 2007\n, when it re-enabled comments on its posts, and implemented disemvoweling. Gawker Media sites adopted disemvoweling as a moderation tool in August 2008. On 30 October 2008, \"TIME\" magazine listed disemvoweling as #42 of their \"Top 50 Inventions of 2008\".\n\nXeni Jardin, co-editor of \"Boing Boing\", said of the practice, \"the dialogue stays, but the misanthrope looks ridiculous, and the emotional sting is neutralized.\" Also, \"Boing Boing\" producers claim that disemvoweling sends a clear message to internet forums as to types of behavior that are unacceptable.\n\nIn July 2008, \"New York Times\" reporter Noam Cohen criticized disemvoweling as a moderation tool, citing a June 2008 dispute about the deletion of all posts on \"Boing Boing\" that mentioned sex columnist Violet Blue\n. In the \"Boing Boing\" comment threads resulting from this controversy, Nielsen Hayden used the disemvoweling technique. Cohen noted that disemvoweling was \"Not quite censorship, but not quite unfettered commentary either.\" A subsequent unsigned case study on online crisis communication asserted that \"removing the vowels from participants’ comments only increased the gulf between the editors and the community\" during the controversy.\n\nMatt Baumgartner, a blogger at the Albany \"Times Union\", reported in August 2009 that the newspaper's lawyers had told him to stop disemvoweling comments.\n\nNielsen Hayden originally disemvoweled postings manually, using Microsoft Word. Because the letter Y is sometimes a vowel and sometimes a consonant, there are a variety of ways to treat it. Nielsen Hayden's policy was never to remove Y, in order to maintain legibility.\n\nThe technique has been facilitated by plug-in filters to automate the process. The first, for MovableType, was written in 2002; others are available for WordPress and other content management systems.\n"}
{"id": "56633201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56633201", "title": "Economic transparency", "text": "Economic transparency\n\nEconomic transparency refers to banks and other financial institutions that have made data available about their financial position and condition. The financial collapse of renowned industries provoked demands for greater transparency to help improve corporate governance in the United States and other industrialized countries. Some economists assert that transparency is one of the most effective methods for regulation of economy. Furthermore, transparency and openness can help accelerate reforms in developing countries in situations which foreign aid and other US programmatic and diplomatic efforts will have less potency and influence. It can promote responsible practices that directly and indirectly support a broad range of US policy objectives, such as (1) exposing government corruption, (2) reducing the scope for government revenues to be siphoned offshore, (3) increasing collection of domestic tax revenues, (4) increasing the accountability and effectiveness of government spending (including aid), (5) reducing dependency on foreign aid, and (6) helping to prevent money laundering and terrorist finance.\n\nFiscal transparency is perceived to be essential for informed decision making, for guaranteeing some accountability, and for maintaining fiscal discipline.\n\nCentral banks differ considerably in the ways in which they have become more transparent. The Bank of England has been a leading example in this regard.\n"}
{"id": "775985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=775985", "title": "Enthusiasm", "text": "Enthusiasm\n\nEnthusiasm is intense enjoyment, interest, or approval. The word was originally used to refer to a person possessed by a god, or someone who exhibited intense piety.\n\nThe word originates from the Greek ἐνθουσιασμός from ἐν and θεός and οὐσία, meaning \"possessed by [a] god's essence\", applied by the Greeks to manifestations of divine possession, by Apollo (as in the case of the Pythia), or by Dionysus (as in the case of the Bacchantes and Maenads), the term enthusiasm was also used in a transferred or figurative sense. Socrates taught that the inspiration of poets is a form of enthusiasm. The term was confined to a belief in religious inspiration, or to intense religious fervour or emotion.\nFrom this, a Syrian sect of the 4th century was known as the Enthusiasts. They believed that \"by perpetual prayer, ascetic practices and contemplation, man could become inspired by the Holy Spirit, in spite of the ruling evil spirit, which the fall had given to him\". From their belief in the efficacy of prayer, they were also known as Euchites.\n\nSeveral Protestant sects of the 16th and 17th centuries were called enthusiastic. During the years that immediately followed the Glorious Revolution, \"enthusiasm\" was a British pejorative term for advocacy of any political or religious cause in public, i.e. fanaticism. Such \"enthusiasm\" was seen in the time around 1700 as the cause of the previous century's English Civil War and its attendant atrocities, and thus it was an absolute social sin to remind others of the war by engaging in enthusiasm. The Royal Society bylaws stipulated that any person discussing religion or politics at a Society meeting was to be summarily ejected for being an \"enthusiast.\" During the 18th century, popular Methodists such as John Wesley or George Whitefield were accused of blind enthusiasm, a charge against which they defended themselves by distinguishing fanaticism from \"religion of the heart.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17796289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17796289", "title": "Equanimity", "text": "Equanimity\n\nEquanimity (Latin: \"æquanimitas\", having an even mind; \"aequus\" even; \"animus\" mind/soul) is a state of psychological stability and composure which is undisturbed by experience of or exposure to emotions, pain, or other phenomena that may cause others to lose the balance of their mind. The virtue and value of equanimity is extolled and advocated by a number of major religions and ancient philosophies.\nFrom Fr. \"équanimité\", from L. \"aequanimitatem\" (nom. \"aequanimitas\") \"evenness of mind, calmness,\" from \"aequus\" \"even, level\" (see equal) + \"animus\" \"mind, spirit\" (see animus). Meaning \"evenness of temper\" in English is from 1610s.\n\nIn Hinduism the term for equanimity is समत्व \"samatvam\" (also rendered \"samatva\" or \"samata\"). \n\nIn Chapter Two, Verse 48 of the \"Bhagavad Gita\" one reads: \"yoga-sthaḥ kuru karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā dhanañ-jaya siddhy-asiddhyoḥ samo bhūtvā samatvaṁ yoga ucyate\". Srila Prabhupada translates this as: Perform your duty equipoised, O Arjuna, abandoning all attachment to success or failure. Such equanimity is called yoga.\nIn his book \"Samatvam - The Yoga of Equanimity\", Swami Sivananda states: \n\n\"An aspirant who treads the path to \"samatvam\" must make every effort to acquire the following essential qualities: \"Viveka\", discrimination; \"vairagya\", dispassion; \"shadsampat\", the six virtues (\"shama\", mental calmness and control; \"dama\", restraint of the senses; \"uparati\", sense withdrawal or \"pratyahara\"; \"titiksha\", endurance; \"shraddha\", faith and \"samadhana\", mental balance); and an intense desire for liberation, \"mumukshutva\". In order to possess the virtue of \"Samatvam\", he will also need to dedicate himself to steadying the mind every moment of his yoga career...\"\n\nAnother Sanskrit term for equanimity is \"upekṣhā\". This is the term used by Patanjali in his \"Yoga Sutras\" (1.33), Here \"upekṣhā\" is considered to be one of the four sublime attitudes, along with loving-kindness (\"maitri\"), compassion (\"karuṇā\"), and joy (\"mudita\"). It is related to the idea of Vairagya or \"dispassion\". The Upeksha Yoga school foregrounds equanimity as the most important tenet of a yoga practice.\n\nIn many Yoga traditions, the virtue of equanimity can be one of the results attained through regular meditation, combined with regular practice of pranayama, asanas and mental disciplines, which clear the mind and bring one inexorably toward a state of health and balance.\n\nEquanimity is a central concept in Stoic ethics and psychology. The Greek stoics use the word \"apatheia\" or \"ataraxia\" whereas the Roman stoics used the Latin word \"aequanimitas\". The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's \"Meditations\" detail a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration. His adoptive father Antoninus Pius's last word was uttered when the tribune of the night-watch came to ask him for the night's password — Pius decided upon \"aequanimitas\" (equanimity). \n\nIn Pyrrhonism the term used for equanimity is \"ataraxia\", which means to be unperturbed. Ataraxia the goal of Pyrrhonist practice. \n\nIn Buddhism, equanimity (\"upekkhā\", \"upekṣhā\") is one of the four sublime attitudes and is considered:\n\nEquanimity can also be cultivated through meditation\n\nMany Jewish thinkers highlight the importance of equanimity (Menuhat ha-Nefesh or Yishuv ha-Da'at) as a necessary foundation for moral and spiritual development. The virtue of equanimity receives particular attention in the writings of rabbis such as Rabbi Yisroel Bal Shem Tov and Rabbi Simcha Zissel Ziv.\n\nSamuel Johnson defined equanimity as \"evenness of mind, neither elated nor depressed.\" In Christian philosophy, equanimity is considered essential for carrying out the theological virtues of gentleness, contentment, temperance, and charity.\n\nThe word “Islam” is derived from the Arabic word \"aslama\", which denotes the peace that comes from total surrender and acceptance. A Muslim may experientially behold that everything happening is meant to be, and stems from the ultimate wisdom of God; hence, being a Muslim can therefore be understood to mean that one is in a state of equanimity.\n\nThe voluminous Writings of the Baha'i Faith are filled with thousands of references to divine attributes, of which equanimity is one. Similar in intent and more frequently used than \"equanimity\" in the Baha'i Writings are \"detachment\" and \"selflessness\" which dispose human beings to free themselves from inordinate reactions to the changes and chances of the world. Humanity is called upon to show complete and sublime detachment from aught else but God, from all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth, from the material world and from the promptings of their own interests and passions. Related concepts include faith, the concept of growing through suffering and being tested, fortitude under trials, dignity, patience, prudence, moderation, freedom from material things, radiant acquiescence, wisdom and evanescence. Baha'u'llah, the Central Personage of the Baha'i Faith, wrote: \"Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the place of detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.\"\n\nThe highly revered Son of Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha, was an exile and prisoner along with His Father, for more than forty years facing a torrent of various hardships. It is written about him: \"So imperturbable was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s equanimity that, while rumors were being bruited about that He might be cast into the sea, or exiled to Fizán in Tripolitania, or hanged on the gallows, He, to the amazement of His friends and the amusement of His enemies, was to be seen planting trees and vines in the garden of His house, whose fruits when the storm had blown over, He would bid His faithful gardener, Ismá’íl Áqá, pluck and present to those same friends and enemies on the occasion of their visits to Him.\" When in London He was asked about His time in prison and said: \"Freedom is not a matter of place. It is a condition. I was thankful for the prison, and the lack of liberty was very pleasing to me, for those days were passed in the path of service, under the utmost difficulties and trials, bearing fruits and results...Unless one accepts dire vicissitudes, he will not attain...When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed release, for that is the greater prison...The afflictions which come to humanity sometimes tend to centre the consciousness upon the limitations, and this is a veritable prison. Release comes by making of the will a Door through which the confirmations of the Spirit come.\" Asked about this He said: The confirmations of the Spirit are all those powers and gifts which some are born with (and which men sometimes call genius), but for which others have to strive with infinite pains. They come to that man or woman who accepts his life with radiant acquiescence. Radiant acquiescence—that was the quality with which we all suddenly seemed inspired as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bade us good-bye.\"\n\nThe following quote by 'Abdu'l-Baha offers a perspective aimed at cultivating equanimity. He wrote: \"Grieve thou not over the troubles and hardships of this nether world, nor be thou glad in times of ease and comfort, for both shall pass away. This present life is even as a swelling wave, or a mirage, or drifting shadows. Could ever a distorted image on the desert serve as refreshing waters? No, by the Lord of Lords! Never can reality and the mere semblance of reality be one, and wide is the difference between fancy and fact, between truth and the phantom thereof. Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing more; it is but images reflected in water, and seeming as pictures to the eye. Rely upon God. Trust in Him. Praise Him, and call Him continually to mind. He verily turneth trouble into ease, and sorrow into solace, and toil into utter peace. He verily hath dominion over all things. If thou wouldst hearken to my words, release thyself from the fetters of whatsoever cometh to pass. Nay rather, under all conditions thank thou thy loving Lord, and yield up thine affairs unto His Will that worketh as He pleaseth. This verily is better for thee than all else, in either world.\" \n"}
{"id": "2041642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2041642", "title": "Eupraxis", "text": "Eupraxis\n\nIn Greek philosophy eupraxis, literally \"right action\", is a fundamental concept in ethics, which has subtle meanings, suggesting an \"ethical life-stance\". This is similar in meaning to eupraxsophy, a word coined in the 20th century by secular humanist philosopher Paul Kurtz.\n"}
{"id": "21455886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21455886", "title": "Figure of thought", "text": "Figure of thought\n\nA figure of thought (, ) is a rhetorical device sometimes distinguished from figure of speech. In another sense the term has been used in the study of diagrams and drawings.\n\nIt may be difficult to draw the distinction between figures of speech and figures of thought, especially when the primary area of inquiry is poetry rather than a prose composition, which adheres to the rules of rhetorical theory that were for the most part created in their fullest articulation in the age of Quintilian (c. 35 – c. 100). In their approach to language, the Roman poets (Horace, Catullus, Propertius, Tibullus) did not distinguish between \"inventio\" and \"elocutio\", which explains somewhat our confusion between figures of thought and figures of speech. The latter are exemplified most immediately by conceptual substitutions, such as metaphor or synecdoche, but if we consider not just the mere \"linguistic\" aspect of the substitution and focus most closely on the concepts themselves, then we may perceive the comprehensiveness of the conceptual for the poet, who operates with words to extend and amplify the potential semantics of poetic output.\n\nAnanda Coomaraswamy used the term in relation to the philosophy of Plato:\n\"Plato’s dialectic makes continual use of figures of speech, which are really figures of thought.\"\nThe scholar of Latin literature Gordon Williams (died 2010) published a study titled \"Figures of Thought in Roman Poetry\" (1980), stating in the introduction:\n\"Language was subject to ordering by exhaustive description of vocabulary, syntax, and figures. The content was likewise subject to ordering by the rules of \"inventio\" (the technique by which all the latent or inherent possibilities in a given idea or cluster of ideas could be 'discovered' and exploited).\"\nA collection of drawings by Nikolaus Gansterer (2011) was titled \"Drawing a Hypothesis: Figures of Thought\".\n"}
{"id": "42039658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42039658", "title": "Grup d'Elx", "text": "Grup d'Elx\n\nGrup d'Elx, is one of the post-World War II artistic movement in Valencia, was founded in Elche in October 1967 by poet Vicente Aguilera Cerní. The avant-garde group had connections to the Surrealist and Social realism movements and stressed the importance of both the human being and its social entourage.\n\nThe Grup d' Elx artists began their training in an precarious artistic scenario. Its activity was a task that built a bridge between modernity and vertebrate and radical vanguard, which for them was inseparable from a social transition out of the Francoist dictatorship. In this sense, as the members of El Paso or Dau al set, the artists of the Grup d' Elx conducted an art in which there are several components that are part of a common denominator: primacy of intense expressiveness, intentional reduction of color to a minimum and, finally, the belief in an artistic poetics of engagement centered on human beings and their social situation. In fact, one of its most representative members, Joan Castejón, was imprisoned for four years.\n\nThe group was inspired by the activity of other postwar artistic groups such as Dau al Set and Grup Parpalló. Members of Grup d'Elx included Joan Castejón, Albert Agulló, Antoni Coll y Sixto Marco.\n\nThe group dissolved in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2103537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103537", "title": "Hospitality", "text": "Hospitality\n\nHospitality refers to the relationship between a guest and a host, wherein the host receives the guest with goodwill, including the reception and entertainment of guests, visitors, or strangers. Louis, chevalier de Jaucourt describes hospitality in the Encyclopédie as the virtue of a great soul that cares for the whole universe through the ties of humanity.\n\nHospitality ethics is a discipline that studies this usage of hospitality.\n\nDerives from the Latin \"hospes\", meaning \"host\", \"guest\", or \"stranger\". \"Hospes\" is formed from \"hostis\", which means \"stranger\" or \"enemy\" (the latter being where terms like \"hostile\" derive). By metonymy the Latin word 'Hospital' means a guest-chamber, guest's lodging, an inn. Hospes/hostis is thus the root for the English words , hospitality, hospice, hostel and hotel.\n\nIn ancient cultures hospitality involved welcoming the stranger and offering him food, shelter, and safety.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, hospitality was a right, with the host being expected to make sure the needs of his guests were met. The ancient Greek term \"xenia\", or \"theoxenia\" when a god was involved, expressed this ritualized guest-friendship relation. In Greek society a person's ability to abide by the laws of hospitality determined nobility and social standing. The Stoics regarded hospitality as a duty inspired by Zeus himself.\n\nIn India and Nepal hospitality is based on the principle \"Atithi Devo Bhava\", meaning \"the guest is God\". This principle is shown in a number of stories where a guest is revealed to be a god who rewards the provider of hospitality. From this stems the Indian or Nepal practice of graciousness towards guests at home and in all social situations. The \"Tirukkuṛaḷ,\" an ancient Indian work on ethics and morality, explains the ethics of hospitality through its verses 81 through 90, dedicating a separate chapter on it (Chapter 9).\n\nJudaism praises hospitality to strangers and guests based largely on the examples of Abraham and Lot in the Book of Genesis ( and ). In Hebrew, the practice is called \"hachnasat orchim\", or \"welcoming guests\". Besides other expectations, hosts are expected to provide nourishment, comfort, and entertainment for their guests, and at the end of the visit, hosts customarily escort their guests out of their home, wishing them a safe journey.\n\nIn Christianity, hospitality is a virtue which is a reminder of sympathy for strangers and a rule to welcome visitors. This is a virtue found in the Old Testament, with, for example, the custom of the foot washing of visitors or the kiss of peace. It was taught by Jesus in the New Testament. Indeed, Jesus said that those who had welcomed a stranger had welcomed him. Some Western countries have developed a host culture for immigrants, based on the bible.\n\nOne of the main principles of Pashtunwali is Melmastia. This is the display of hospitality and profound respect to all visitors (regardless of race, religion, national affiliation or economic status) without any hope of remuneration or favour. Pashtuns will go to great lengths to show their hospitality.\n\nIslam highly recommends one another to say peace be upon you salam Wa Alaikum to one another as Muhammad had said,\nMuslims are obliged to treat their guest with kindness and peace even prisoners (in war), As Muhammad had said in authentic sources and verses from the Quran\n\nAbu Aziz ibn Umair reported: I was among the prisoners of war on the day of the battle of Badr. Muhammad had said, “I enjoin you to treat the captives well.” After I accepted Islam, I was among the Ansar (Inhabitants of Madinah) and when the time of lunch or dinner arrived, I would feed dates to the prisoners for I had been fed bread due to the command of Muhammad. al-Mu’jam al-Kabīr 18444\n\nInvite (all) to the Way of thy Lord with wisdom and beautiful preaching; and argue with them in ways that are best and most gracious: Quran\n\nGood hospitality is crucial in Islam even in business According to another report, Muhammad passed by a pile of food in the market. He put his hand inside it and felt dampness, although the surface was dry. He said:\n“O owner of the food, what is this?’\nThe man said, ‘It was damaged by rain, O Messenger of God.’\nHe said, ‘Why did you not put the rain-damaged food on top so that people could see it! Whoever cheats us is not one of us.” (Saheeh Muslim)\n\nCeltic societies also valued the concept of hospitality, especially in terms of protection. A host who granted a person's request for refuge was expected not only to provide food and shelter for his/her guest, but to make sure they did not come to harm while under their care.\n\nIn the West today hospitality is rarely a matter of protection and survival and is more associated with etiquette and entertainment. However, it still involves showing respect for one's guests, providing for their needs, and treating them as equals. Cultures and subcultures vary in the extent to which one is expected to show hospitality to strangers, as opposed to personal friends or members of one's ingroup.\n\nJacques Derrida offers a model to understand hospitality that divides unconditional hospitality from conditional hospitality. Over the centuries, philosophers have devoted considerable attention to the problem of hospitality. However, hospitality offers a paradoxical situation (like language) since inclusion of those who are welcomed in the sacred law of hospitality implies others will be rejected. Julia Kristeva (1991) alerts readers to the dangers of “perverse hospitality”, which consists of taking advantage of the vulnerability of aliens to dispossess them. Hospitality serves to reduce the tension in the process of host-guest encounters, producing a liminal zone that combines curiosity about others and fear of strangers. In general terms, the meaning of hospitality centres on the belief that strangers should be assisted and protected while traveling. However, not all voices are in agreement with this concept. Professor Anthony Pagden describes how the concept of hospitality was historically manipulated to legitimate the conquest of Americas by imposing the right of free transit, which was conducive to the formation of the modern nation-state. This suggests that hospitality is a political institution which can be ideologically deformed to oppress others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54220610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54220610", "title": "Immigrant paradox", "text": "Immigrant paradox\n\nThe immigrant paradox is that recent immigrants often outperform more established immigrants and non-immigrants on a number of health-, education-, and conduct- or crime-related outcomes, despite the numerous barriers they face to successful social integration.\n\nAccording to the UN, the number of first-generation immigrants worldwide is 244 million. \nThese large-scale population changes worldwide have led many scholars, across fields, to study the acculturation and adjustment of immigrants to their new homes. Specifically, researchers have examined immigrant experiences as they pertain to educational attainment, mental and physical health, and conduct/crime.\n\nResearchers have tried to understand why later generations seem to perform less well than their forebears. They have found that it can be explained by non-optimal methodology and differences in the way generations are modified by the host culture.\n\nImmigrants face many challenges as a result of migration, stemming from the fact that the nations and communities they settle in are culturally unfamiliar. As a result, they find themselves in an unwelcoming environment lacking in the infrastructure necessary to ensure a simple transition. Additionally, because general attitudes of the host society are often hostile and xenophobic, immigrants are doubly vulnerable. Discrimination and prejudice are common and dictate daily experiences with individuals and organizations within the host society. For example, although cultural sensitivity training is increasingly a required component of medical education, immigrants have historically faced and continue to face discrimination in the health care system. An added barrier to equitable access to health care comes as a result of many immigrants' limited English proficiency. Many health care facilities have inadequate interpretation services, and culturally sensitive health care providers are also scarce. What's more, many immigrants are uninsured, making the financial burdens of adequate health care insurmountable.  \n\nMany immigrants also settle in \"de facto\" segregated, low-income neighborhoods and ethnic enclaves, especially during periods of high immigration. Although the benefits of living in such communities include increased social support, positive in-group relations, and the virtual elimination of cultural and language barriers in daily interaction, often such neighborhoods are targets of institutional violence, such as stop and frisk. Further, due to public education funding policies in the United States, funds are often allocated to schools based on neighborhood property taxes. As a result, many immigrant children attend schools that are understaffed, underfunded, and lacking in resources in comparison to the schools of their more affluent peers. This is known as the opportunity gap, by which low-income and marginalized groups have disproportionately low access to the opportunities and conveniences afforded to societally privileged groups, resulting in group-wide disparities in academic achievement, wages, and political power. In direct relation to these obstacles, immigrants also face challenges in the workplace, including poor and dangerous working conditions, unemployment, and the employment of highly skilled individuals in low-skill jobs.\n\nTo compound all of these issues, the burden of acculturation is an added stressor. Navigating the divide between the heritage culture and the culture of the new society is difficult, as the traditions, beliefs, and norms of these two cultures are often in direct conflict. This challenge is only compounded by the other obstacles immigrants are faced with, and has deleterious consequences for mental health, particularly because many migrants and refugees are already susceptible to elevated levels of psychopathology, due to the trauma associated with interpersonal conflict, acculturative stress and/or political unrest in their countries of origin.\n\nIn light of these obstacles, it is expected that recent immigrants would have outcomes inferior to those of their native-born or non-immigrant peers.\n\nDespite the numerous challenges facing early generation immigrants, research on the mental and physical health, educational, and conduct-related outcomes of these populations has demonstrated a paradoxical pattern.\n\nResearch with Filipino Americans has demonstrated that first-generation immigrants had lower levels of depressive symptoms than subsequent, US-born generations. First-generation Mexican immigrants to the United States were found to have lower incidences of mood disorders and substance use than their bicultural or subsequent generation counterparts. Similarly, immigrant youth in general are less likely to engage in risky behaviours and substance use, including alcohol and marijuana consumption. Other research with Latino populations shows that immigrants are less likely to suffer from any mental disorder than non-Latino whites. Research with Asian populations has supported this apparent paradox, with first-generation Asian Americans reporting lower levels of lifetime symptoms of depression and anxiety than US-born Asian Americans. One study inclusive of immigrants to the United States from Asia, Africa, Latin America, and Europe found that immigrants, regardless of place of origin, exhibited less violent and nonviolent antisocial behaviour than US-born individuals.\n\nThese findings have been replicated outside of the United States, with Canadian researchers finding that foreign born youth are less likely to display emotional and behavioural problems than their native-born peers, despite experiencing similar levels of poverty. Research conducted in the Netherlands has also found evidence of an immigrant paradox, with first- and second-generation Muslim immigrants reporting fewer psychological problems and higher self-esteem than Dutch nationals.\n\nThe immigrant paradox also extends to physical health, with recent immigrants having better outcomes than US-born individuals. One study of several thousand health records in Southern California found Asian and Latina women had better perinatal outcomes than both white and Black women. Specifically, Asian and Latina women had lower infant mortality, higher birth weight, fewer Caesarean sections, fewer medical diagnoses during delivery, and shorter hospitalizations. This finding has also been replicated in Spain, with immigrant mothers, barring those of Sub-Saharan African origin, having a lower frequency of low birth weight than native Spanish mothers.\n\nWith respect to overweight and obesity, it has been found that first-generation Mexican American women had healthier diets than both non-Latino whites and second-generation Mexican American women. Further, second-generation women had the poorest dietary intake, consuming even smaller amounts of necessary nutrients than non-Latina white women. US-born immigrants (i.e., second-generation immigrants, and subsequent generations) have also been found to engage in more overweight-related behaviours, such as poor diet, smoking, and little physical activity, in comparison to foreign-born immigrants. For Cubans and Puerto Ricans, increased length of stay in the United States was also associated with increased presence of overweight. These findings were replicated in a later study, which showed that with increased length of stay in the United States, immigrant health levels decreased significantly, approaching the levels of US-born individuals. Although immigrant men and women entered the US with lower BMIs than their US-born counterparts, within 10 to 15 years of arrival, there was no significant difference between the BMIs of immigrants versus US-borns. These findings apply to Asian American immigrants as well, with second- and third-generation Asian American adolescents being 100% more likely to be obese relative to their first-generation peers.\n\nAmong Latino populations, first- and second-generation Latino adolescents report high levels of effort in school, with effort declining across generations. They also place a greater value upon education, with the same downhill trend being observed. First-generation Mexican American adolescents, specifically, have more positive attitudes towards academics and skip school less than subsequent generations and non-Latino US-born Whites. They are also more involved in high school STEM coursework and have higher GPAs. With respect to Asian Americans, first-generation Asian American youth have more positive attitudes towards academics and skip school less than subsequent generations and non-Latino US-born whites. Further, first- and second-generation Asian American youth report higher levels of effort in school. Other differences in educational outcomes include superior reading achievement for first- and second-generation immigrant children, in comparison to their third-generation counterparts. First-generation Latino, Asian, and African youth have greater overall educational attainment and are less likely to drop out of high school than subsequent generations of each community. There are also differences in susceptibility to stereotype threat across generations, with second-generation Afro-Caribbean youth more at risk than first-generation youth.\n\nThere is also evidence that the immigrant paradox extends to differential outcomes in conduct and/or crime. For example, rates of intimate partner violence are lower among non-Latino first-generation immigrant families. Immigrants are also less likely than non-immigrants to engage in many kinds of lifetime criminal and violent antisocial activity, including drunk driving, speeding, purposeful physical violence, and weapon use, with first-generation immigrants the least likely to engage in criminal behaviour, followed by second-generation immigrants, then third-generation. These effects can be seen at the neighborhood level, with increases in first-generation immigrants resulting in decreases in neighborhood-wide violence over time. Further, among undocumented immigrants, drug-related crime is even less likely than it is among non-immigrants.\n\nWith respect to criminality among adolescents, first-, one-and-a-half-, and second-generation Asian American, African American, and Caribbean American adolescents are all less likely to engage in illegal or delinquent behaviour than non-Latino US-born White adolescents. Immigrant neighborhood concentration was also negatively correlated with recidivism for Latino youth.\n\nThere is a general consensus that refugees are at a particular disadvantage when it comes to successful resettlement in the host society, as the same challenges voluntary immigrants face are generally aggravated for refugees. However, some research has found evidence of a paradox, with refugees at least three times less likely to engage in substance use than non-immigrants. Other research has found refugees to Denmark to have a lower likelihood of stroke and breast cancer compared to Danish natives, but higher likelihood of lung cancer, HIV/AIDS, and tuberculosis. Notably, levels of all of these diseases among refugee populations eventually converged to the same levels as Danish natives with increased length of residency.\n\nThere may also be an immigrant paradox for the perinatal outcomes of refugees, with the majority of refugee women studied having a lower crude birth rate, infant mortality rate, maternal mortality rate, and percentage of low birth weight than women in both their host country and their country of origin.\n\nThere is some doubt among scholars as to whether or not the phenomenon actually exists, with some findings conflicting with the body of research on immigrant outcomes. For example, among Asian Americans, limited English proficiency was consistently associated with worse physical and mental health outcomes. In addition to language proficiency, age at time of immigration is also an important factor, with older first-generation Mexican American youth more likely to drop out of school than their US-born and younger, first-generation counterparts. In further support of this conclusion, data from the CPS shows that immigrating as a teenager is associated with completing less schooling than immigrating before or after adolescence. CPS data also shows that second-generation immigrants completed more schooling than both foreign-born immigrants and non-immigrant US-born individuals.\n\nIn international research on the phenomenon, Europe's SHARE data demonstrated no evidence of a paradox, with immigrants having poorer health outcomes than native Europeans. A study in Canada found that recent and non-European immigrant women were more predisposed to developing postpartum depression than non-immigrant Canadians.\n\nThe most common hypothesis for the immigrant paradox considers recent and first-generation immigrants' comparative access to cultural and social protective factors. Despite being confronted with the many challenges arising from immigration and acculturation, first-generation immigrants have greater social and cultural capital than subsequent generations. These include stronger social networks and highly adaptive cultural practices concerning religion, diet, substance use, and parenting style. Researchers also posit that first-generation immigrants are more likely to place high importance upon academic success due to fear of limited employment opportunities in the host society. These protective factors result in superior lifetime health, educational, financial, and conduct-related outcomes. Additionally, by having access to multiple cultural frameworks, recent immigrants are able to code-switch between frameworks or engage in downward social comparison as methods of self-protection.\n\nIn comparison, subsequent generations may not have access to such social and cultural capital, having been socialized into the norms and expectations of the host society (i.e., consuming more processed and unhealthy foods, having a smaller network of same-ethnicity peers, increased substance use). Further, intergenerational conflict is more likely between first-generation immigrants and their second-generation children due to differing cultural practices, with parents being accustomed to the norms of their culture of origin and children having been socialized into the norms of the host society. This type of conflict has been linked to poorer outcomes for children.\n\nA third cost of acculturation is linked to immigrant children's cultural socialization. A strong sense of ethnic identity and pride in one's cultural heritage is generally understood to be protective from negative mental health outcomes. However, with increased length of stay in the host society, subsequent generations are likely to report decreasing levels of involvement in culturally important traditions and practices. With this comes decreasing strength of ethnic identity. Second-generation immigrants are also less likely to endorse meritocratic views, which is similarly correlated with decreasing strength of ethnic identity. These attributes are all associated with poorer mental health.\n\nFirst-generation immigrants often settle in ethnic enclaves, which carry a host of advantages. Residents of these neighborhoods have access to a strong and supportive network of same-ethnicity peers and potential access to culturally sensitive healthcare providers that may allow for increased financial gain and better physical and mental health outcomes. Ethnic enclaves also eliminate the challenges associated with language barriers, with residents often sharing linguistic similarity.\n\nAnother common explanation for the immigrant paradox is that the vast majority of superior outcomes among early generations of immigrants can be accounted for by a selection effect. Proponents of this hypothesis argue that only the most psychologically and physically healthy individuals migrate from their country of origin, and therefore have superior outcomes to begin with.\n\nMuch of the literature on the immigrant paradox in mental health relies on self-report data. This may be problematic in that certain populations may differentially interpret questions in ways that are meaningful and result in significant disparities between groups. Similarly, many measures view mental health solely through a Western lens, accounting only for the types of symptoms commonly expressed in Western societies. This may result in the underreporting of poor mental health among non-Western populations.\n\nAnother issue in research on immigrants is the grouping of highly diverse ethnic groups together in monolithic racial categories, namely the pan-ethnic \"Asian\" and \"Latino\" categories. Much of the research on Latinos and the immigrant paradox has been conducted with Mexican American populations, ignoring the fact that there are 32 other countries that fall under the Latin American label. Similarly, much research on Asian Americans has been conducted with East Asian populations, ignoring the differential treatment and experiences of South and Southeast Asians, and the different refugee status of individuals across Asia (examples include Lhotshampa refugees, who are of South Asian heritage, and Cambodian refugees, who are of Southeast Asian heritage). Such groupings are problematic in that they erase the large diversity in socioeconomic status, educational background, and historical trauma of each of these ethnic groups – factors which all contribute to the consequent positive or negative outcomes of immigrants.\n\nCarola Suárez-Orozco, Ph.D. calls for increased research on the psychology of immigrants paying attention to differences in refugee status, documentation status, gender, and ethnic group (in lieu of using pan-ethnic groupings). Research must also consider seasonal migrants, the differential racialization of ethnic groups, and the role of English proficiency on educational and health outcomes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4303199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4303199", "title": "Incorporeality", "text": "Incorporeality\n\nIncorporeal or uncarnate means without a physical body, presence or form. It is often used in reference to souls, spirits, and God in many religions including Judaism and Christianity. In ancient philosophy, any attenuated \"thin\" matter such as air, aether, fire or light was considered incorporeal. The ancient Greeks believed air, as opposed to solid earth, to be incorporeal, in so far as it is less resistant to movement; and the ancient Persians believed fire to be incorporeal in that every soul was said to be produced from it. In modern philosophy, a distinction between the incorporeal and immaterial is not necessarily maintained: a body is described as incorporeal if it is not made out of matter.\n\nIn the problem of universals, universals are separable from any particular embodiment in one sense, while in another, they seem inherent nonetheless. Aristotle offered a hylomorphic account of abstraction in contrast to Plato's world of Forms. Aristotle used the Greek terms \"soma\" (body) and \"hyle\" (matter, literally \"wood\").\n\nThe notion that a causally effective incorporeal body is even coherent requires the belief that something can affect what's material, without physically existing at the point of effect. A ball can directly affect another ball by coming in direct contact with it, and is visible because it reflects the light that directly reaches it. An incorporeal field of influence, or immaterial body could not perform these functions because they have no physical construction with which to perform these functions. Following Newton, it became customary to accept action at a distance as brute fact, and to overlook the philosophical problems involved in so doing.\n\nIn chapter 10 of \"De ratione animae\", Alcuin defines \"anima\" (soul) by combining Platonic attributes, including intellect and reason, ceaseless motion and immortality with the Christian tenents of free will and salvation. As a means of interaction with corporeals such as the human body and incorporeals such as God and the Forms, his definition includes traits pertaining to the soul as an incarnate entity within the natural world.\n\nMembers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church, Mormons) view the mainstream Christian belief in God's incorporeality as being founded upon a post-Apostolic departure from the traditional Judeo-Christian belief in an anthropomorphic, corporeal God. This concept of a corporeal God is supported by Biblical references to his face, mouth, finger, feet, back, and right hand; as well as various references to God creating man his own image and likeness. Examples of physical manifestations of God include where the prophet Jacob declared, \"I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved\"; and in , which reads: \"...the Lord spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend.\"\n\nMormons believe that when the Church's foundation of revelation (, ) crumbled with the martyrdom of the Apostles, doctrine gradually began to shift as a result of the speculation and reasoning of theologians who took it upon themselves to continue the development of Christian doctrine despite not being authorized receivers of revelation for the body of the church. The writings of many of these post-Apostolic theologians show that they were influenced in varying degrees by the prevailing Greek metaphysical philosophies of that era, which strongly rejected the idea of a corporeal, material God. For example, in \"Confessions\" Book 7, Augustine of Hippo attributed his conception of God as incorporeal substance to Neoplatonism: \"I no longer thought of thee, O God, by the analogy of a human body. Ever since I inclined my ear to philosophy I had avoided this error\". Origen's preoccupation with the philosophers' concept of God is apparent in this quote from “Homilies on Genesis and Exodus”: \"The Jews indeed, but also some of our own people, supposed that God should be understood as a man; that is, adorned with human members and human appearance. But the philosophers despise these stories as fabulous and formed in the likeness of poetic fictions\".\n\nThis Hellenistic rejection of anything material in the \"metaphysical\" world caused the resurrection to be one of the most hotly debated doctrines. This was apparent in the Greek's skeptical reaction to the doctrine of the resurrection in , and is what prompted Paul's defense of the resurrection in . In “Expositions on the Psalms” Augustine wrote, “Nothing has been attacked with the same pertinacious, contentious contradiction, in the Christian faith, as the resurrection of the flesh...many Gentile philosophers have...written that the soul is immortal: when they come to the resurrection of the flesh...they most openly deny it, declaring it to be absolutely impossible that this earthly flesh can ascend to Heaven.” Mormons believe that the truth about God's corporeal nature was first restored to the earth when the Father and the Son appeared to the fourteen-year-old Joseph Smith in 1820 to begin the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.\n\n"}
{"id": "2147961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2147961", "title": "Invariants of tensors", "text": "Invariants of tensors\n\nIn mathematics, in the fields of multilinear algebra and representation theory, invariants of tensors are coefficients of the characteristic polynomial of the tensor \"A\":\n\nwhere formula_2 is the identity tensor and formula_3 is the polynomial's indeterminate (it is important to bear in mind that a polynomial's indeterminate formula_4 may also be a non-scalar as long as power, scaling and adding make sense for it, e.g., formula_5 is legitimate, and in fact, quite useful).\n\nThe first invariant of an \"n\"×\"n\" tensor A (formula_6) is the coefficient for formula_7 (because the coefficient for formula_8 is always 1), the second invariant (formula_9) is the coefficient for formula_10, etc., the \"n\"th invariant is the free term.\n\nThe first invariant (trace) is always the sum of the diagonal components:\nThe \"n\"th invariant is just formula_12, the determinant of formula_13 (up to sign).\n\nThe invariants do not change with rotation of the coordinate system (they are objective). Obviously, any function of the invariants only is also objective.\n\nMost tensors used in engineering are symmetric 3×3.\nFor this case the invariants can be calculated as:\n\n(the sum of principal minors). This expression holds for non-symmetric tensors. \nwhere formula_17, formula_18, formula_19 are the eigenvalues of tensor \"A\".\n\nBecause of the Cayley–Hamilton theorem the following equation is always true:\nwhere \"E\" is the second-order identity tensor.\n\nA similar equation holds for tensors of higher order.\n\nA scalar valued tensor function \"f\" that depends merely on the three invariants of a symmetric 3×3 tensor formula_13 is objective, i.e., independent from rotations of the coordinate system. Moreover, every objective tensor function depends only on the tensor's invariants. Thus, objectivity of a tensor function is fulfilled if, and only if, for some function formula_22 we have\n\nA common application to this is the evaluation of the potential energy as function of the strain tensor, within the framework of linear elasticity. Exhausting the above theorem the free energy of the system reduces to a function of 3 scalar parameters rather than 6. Within linear elasticity the free energy has to be quadratic in the tensor's elements, which eliminates an additional scalar. Thus, for an isotropic material only two independent parameters are needed to describe the elastic properties, known as Lamé coefficients. Consequently, experimental fits and computational efforts may be eased significantly.\n\nThis technique was first introduced into isotropic turbulence by Howard P. Robertson in 1940 and he was able to derive Kármán–Howarth equation from the invariant principle. George Batchelor and Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar exploited this technique by extending to axisymmetric turbulence.\n\nSince the invariants are constant in any reference, functions of invariants are also constant. Some sources define the three invariants of the 3×3 tensors as\n\nTherefore,\n\n"}
{"id": "42878689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42878689", "title": "Leandro Erlich", "text": "Leandro Erlich\n\nLeandro Erlich (born 1973 in Buenos Aires, Argentina) is an internationally exhibited Argentine conceptual artist. In 2001 he represented his nation at the Venice Biennial and was included in the main section of the biennial once again in 2005. The artist's work was also included in the 2000 Whitney Biennial and the 2001 Istanbul Biennial. In 2008 Erlich created a swimming pool installation which was on display at MoMA PS1 in the Long Island City section of Queens, New York City.\n\nIn summer 2013, Erlich exhibited \"Dalston House\", an optical illusion at the Dalston Mill site in Dalston, East London with a huge mirror suspended at 45° (from the horizontal) over a life-size model of the façade of a Victorian terraced townhouse placed horizontally on the ground, giving the appearance of visitors climbing or hanging off the side of the building.\n\nOne of Erlich's most popular works is his immersive architectural environment called \"Swimming Pool\", which has been exhibited at MoMA PS1 in Queens, New York City, New York and is now on permanent display as part of the collection at the 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art in Kanazawa, Japan .\n\n"}
{"id": "17905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17905", "title": "Likelihood principle", "text": "Likelihood principle\n\nIn statistics, the likelihood principle is that, given a statistical model, all the evidence in a sample relevant to model parameters is contained in the likelihood function.\n\nA likelihood function arises from a probability density function considered as a function of its distributional parameterization argument. For example, consider a model which gives the probability density function \"ƒ\"(\"x\" | \"θ\") of observable random variable \"X\" as a function of a parameter \"θ\". Then for a specific value \"x\" of \"X\", the function formula_1(\"θ\" | \"x\") = \"ƒ\"(\"x\" | \"θ\") is a likelihood function of \"θ\": it gives a measure of how \"likely\" any particular value of \"θ\" is, if we know that \"X\" has the value \"x\". The density function may be a density with respect to counting measure, i.e. a probability mass function.\n\nTwo likelihood functions are \"equivalent\" if one is a scalar multiple of the other. The likelihood principle is this: all information from the data that is relevant to inferences about the value of the model parameters is in the equivalence class to which the likelihood function belongs. The strong likelihood principle applies this same criterion to cases such as sequential experiments where the sample of data that is available results from applying a stopping rule to the observations earlier in the experiment.\n\nSuppose\n\n\nThen the observation that \"X\" = 3 induces the likelihood function\n\nwhile the observation that \"Y\" = 12 induces the likelihood function\n\nThe likelihood principle says that, as the data are the same in both cases, the inferences drawn about the value of θ should also be the same. In addition, all the inferential content in the data about the value of θ is contained in the two likelihoods, and is the same if they are proportional to one another. This is the case in the above example, reflecting the fact that the difference between observing \"X\" = 3 and observing \"Y\" = 12 lies not in the actual data, but merely in the design of the experiment. Specifically, in one case, one has decided in advance to try twelve times; in the other, to keep trying until three successes are observed. The inference about θ should be the same, and this is reflected in the fact that the two likelihoods are proportional to each other.\n\nThis is not always the case, however. The use of frequentist methods involving p-values leads to different inferences for the two cases above, showing that the outcome of frequentist methods depends on the experimental procedure, and thus violates the likelihood principle.\n\nA related concept is the law of likelihood, the notion that the extent to which the evidence supports one parameter value or hypothesis against another is equal to the ratio of their likelihoods.\nThat is,\nis the degree to which the observation x supports parameter value or hypothesis \"a\" against \"b\". If this ratio is 1, the evidence is indifferent; if greater than 1, the evidence supports the value \"a\" against \"b\"; or if less, then vice versa. The use of Bayes factors can extend this by taking account of the complexity of different hypotheses.\n\nCombining the likelihood principle with the law of likelihood yields the consequence that the parameter value which maximizes the likelihood function is the value which is most strongly supported by the evidence. This is the basis for the widely used method of maximum likelihood.\n\nThe likelihood principle was first identified by that name in print in 1962\n(Barnard et al., Birnbaum, and Savage et al.),\nbut arguments for the same principle, unnamed, and the use of the principle in applications goes back to the works of R.A. Fisher in the 1920s. \nThe law of likelihood was identified by that name by I. Hacking (1965).\nMore recently the likelihood principle as a general principle of inference has been championed by A. W. F. Edwards. The likelihood principle has been applied to the philosophy of science by R. Royall.\n\nBirnbaum proved that the likelihood principle follows from two more primitive and seemingly reasonable principles, the \"conditionality principle\" and the \"sufficiency principle\". The conditionality principle says that if an experiment is chosen by a random process independent of the states of nature formula_5, then only the experiment actually performed is relevant to inferences about formula_5. The sufficiency principle says that if formula_7 is a sufficient statistic for formula_5, and if in two experiments with data formula_9 and formula_10 we have formula_11, then the evidence about formula_5 given by the two experiments is the same.\n\nSome widely used methods of conventional statistics, for example many significance tests, are not consistent with the likelihood principle.\n\nLet us briefly consider some of the arguments for and against the likelihood principle.\n\nBirnbaum's proof of the likelihood principle has been disputed by philosophers of science, including Deborah Mayo and statisticians including Michael Evans. On the other hand, a new proof of the likelihood principle has been provided by Greg Gandenberger.\n\nUnrealized events play a role in some common statistical methods. For example, the result of a significance test depends on the \"p\"-value, the probability of a result as extreme or more extreme than the observation, and that probability may depend on the design of the experiment. To the extent that the likelihood principle is accepted, such methods are therefore denied.\n\nSome classical significance tests are not based on the likelihood. A commonly cited example is the optional stopping problem. Suppose I tell you that I tossed a coin 12 times and in the process observed 3 heads. You might make some inference about the probability of heads and whether the coin was fair. Suppose now I tell that I tossed the coin \"until\" I observed 3 heads, and I tossed it 12 times. Will you now make some different inference?\n\nThe likelihood function is the same in both cases: it is proportional to\n\nAccording to the likelihood principle, the inference should be the same in either case.\n\nSuppose a number of scientists are assessing the probability of a certain outcome (which we shall call 'success') in experimental trials. Conventional wisdom suggests that if there is no bias towards success or failure then the success probability would be one half. Adam, a scientist, conducted 12 trials and obtains 3 successes and 9 failures. Then he left the lab.\n\nBill, a colleague in the same lab, continued Adam's work and published Adam's results, along with a significance test. He tested the null hypothesis that \"p\", the success probability, is equal to a half, versus \"p\" < 0.5. The probability of the observed result that out of 12 trials 3 or something fewer (i.e. more extreme) were successes, if \"H\" is true, is\n\nwhich is 299/4096 = 7.3%. Thus the null hypothesis is not rejected at the 5% significance level.\n\nCharlotte, another scientist, reads Bill's paper and writes a letter, saying that it is possible that Adam kept trying until he obtained 3 successes, in which case the probability of needing to conduct 12 or more experiments is given by\n\nwhich is 134/4096 = 3.27%. Now the result \"is\" statistically significant at the 5% level. Note that there is no contradiction among these two results; both computations are correct.\n\nTo these scientists, whether a result is significant or not depends on the design of the experiment, not on the likelihood (in the sense of the likelihood function) of the parameter value being 1/2.\n\nResults of this kind are considered by some as arguments against the likelihood principle. For others it exemplifies the value of the likelihood principle and is an argument against significance tests.\n\nSimilar themes appear when comparing Fisher's exact test with Pearson's chi-squared test.\n\nAn argument in favor of the likelihood principle is given by Edwards in his book \"Likelihood\". He cites the following story from J.W. Pratt, slightly condensed here. Note that the likelihood function depends only on what actually happened, and not on what \"could\" have happened.\n\nThis story can be translated to Adam's stopping rule above, as follows. Adam stopped immediately after 3 successes, because his boss Bill had instructed him to do so. Adam did not die. After the publication of the statistical analysis by Bill, Adam discovers that he has missed a second instruction from Bill to conduct 12 trials instead, and that Bill's paper is based on this second instruction. Adam is very glad that he got his 3 successes after exactly 12 trials, and explains to his friend Charlotte that by coincidence he executed the second instruction. Later, he is astonished to hear about Charlotte's letter explaining that now the result is significant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "954290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=954290", "title": "Live coding", "text": "Live coding\n\nLive coding (sometimes referred to as 'on-the-fly programming', 'just in time programming' and 'conversational programming') makes programming an integral part of the running program.\n\nIt is most prominent as a performing arts form and a creativity technique centred upon the writing of source code and the use of interactive programming in an improvised way. Live coding is often used to create sound and image based digital media, as well as light systems, improvised dance and poetry, though is particularly prevalent in computer music usually as improvisation, although it could be combined with algorithmic composition. Typically, the process of writing source code is made visible by projecting the computer screen in the audience space, with ways of visualising the code an area of active research. Live coding techniques are also employed outside of performance, such as in producing sound for film or audiovisual work for interactive art installations. Also, the interconnection between computers makes possible to realize this practice networked in group. \n\nThe figure of live coder is who performs the act of live coding, usually \"artists who want to learn to code, and coders who want to express themselves\" or in terms of Wang & Cook the \"programmer/performer/composer\".\n\nLive coding is also an increasingly popular technique in programming-related lectures and conference presentations, and has been described as a \"best practice\" for computer science lectures by Mark Guzdial.\n\nA range of techniques have been developed and appropriated for the purposes of live coding.\n\nThe specific affordances of time-based media and live interaction with code has led to a number of novel developments and uses in programming language design. Through mutual embedding of imperative and declarative subsystems, the programming language SuperCollider permitted to build a library that allows incomplete and provisional specifications which can be rewritten at runtime.\n\nThe ChucK language introduced an approach to \"strongly timed\" programming in 2002, embedding precision timing into control flow through a concise syntax.\n\n\"Temporal recursion\" was a term initially coined in relation to the Impromptu programming environment. Technical elements within a programming environment continue to locate compressors and recursion solutions, but timing had been a major issue. While the general form of a temporal recursion, being any asynchronous function recursion through time, is available to any event driven system, Impromptu has placed a special emphasis on this particular design pattern, making it the centre piece of the concurrency architecture on that platform. Temporal recursion had repeatedly been used in SuperCollider and has since been implemented in the Fluxus environment.\n\nAnother functional approach to the representation of time is shown in the Tidal pattern DSL, which represents patterns as combinators operating over functions of time, similar to techniques in functional reactive programming.\n\nMulti-user programming has developed in the context of group music-making, through the long development of the \"Republic\" system developed and employed by members of the network band \"PowerBooks Unplugged\". Republic is built into the SuperCollider language, and allows participants to collaboratively write live code that is distributed across the network of computers. There are similar efforts in other languages, such as the distributed tuple space used in the Impromptu language. Additionally Overtone, Impromptu and Extempore support multi-user sessions, in which any number of programmers can intervene across the network in a given runtime process. More recently systems as Extramuros are used to live coding in group through the technique of shared buffers of code written in SuperCollider and TidalCycles languages. The practice of writing code in group can be done in the same room through a local network or from remote places accessing a common server. Terms like laptop band, laptop orchestra, collaborative live coding or collective live coding are used to frame a networked live coding practice both in a local or remote way.\n\nTOPLAP (The (Temporary|Transnational|Terrestrial|Transdimensional) Organisation for the (Promotion|Proliferation|Permanence|Purity) of Live (Algorithm|Audio|Art|Artistic) Programming) is an informal organization formed in February 2004 to bring together the various communities that had formed around live coding environments. The TOPLAP manifesto asserts several requirements for a TOPLAP compliant performance, in particular that performers' screens should be projected and not hidden.\n\nA number of research projects and research groups have been created to explore live coding, often taking interdisciplinary approaches bridging the humanities and sciences. First efforts to both develop live coding systems and embed the emerging field in the broader theoretical context happened in the research project Artistic Interactivity in Hybrid Networks from 2005 to 2008, funded by the German Research Foundation.\n\nFurther, the Live Coding Research Network was funded by the UK Arts and Humanities Research Council for two years from February 2014, supporting a range of activities including symposia, workshops and an annual international conference called ICLC.\n\nIn Madrid, since 2015 a group of experimentation on free software called Live Code Mad, organizes regular meetings in order to experiment with different live coding platforms and languages. In Mexico, a workshop of live coding take place in Instituto Politécnico Nacional at ESFM. In USA there is a group called Live Code NYC. Since 2014 the collective Algo0ritmos is working in Medellin, this group develop tools for live coding focused on live coding and free software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26127533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26127533", "title": "Marginal abatement cost", "text": "Marginal abatement cost\n\nAbatement cost is the cost of reducing environmental negatives such as pollution. Marginal cost is an economic concept that measures the cost of an additional unit. The marginal abatement cost (MAC), in general, measures the cost of reducing one more unit of pollution.\n\nAlthough marginal abatement costs can be negative, such as when the low carbon option is cheaper than the business-as-usual option, MACs often rise steeply as more pollution is reduced.\n\nMarginal abatement costs are typically used on a marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) or MAC curve, which shows the marginal cost of additional reductions in pollution.\n\nCarbon traders use MAC curves to derive the supply function for modelling carbon price fundamentals. Power companies may employ MAC curves to guide their decisions about long-term capital investment strategies to select among a variety of efficiency and generation options. Economists have used MAC curves to explain the economics of interregional carbon trading. Policy-makers use MAC curves as merit order curves, to analyze how much abatement can be done in an economy at what cost, and where policy should be directed to achieve the emission reductions.\n\nHowever, MAC curves should not be used as abatement supply curves (or merit order curves) to decide which measures to implement in order to achieve a given emission-reduction target. Indeed, the options they list would take decades to implement, and it may be optimal to implement expensive but high-potential measures before introducing cheaper measures.\n\nThe way that MAC curves are usually built has been criticized for lack of transparency and the poor treatment it makes of uncertainty, inter-temporal dynamics, interactions between sectors and ancillary benefits. There is also concern regarding the biased ranking that occurs if some included options have negative costs. \n\nVarious economists, research organizations, and consultancies have produced MAC curves. Bloomberg New Energy Finance and McKinsey & Company have produced economy wide analyses on greenhouse gas emissions reductions for the United States. ICF International produced a California specific curve following AB-32 legislation as have Sweeney and Weyant.\n\nThe Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy produced several marginal abatement cost curves for Germany (also called Cost Potential Curves), depending on the perspective (end-user, utilities, society).\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency has done work on a MAC curve for non carbon dioxide emissions such as methane, NO, and HFCs. Enerdata and LEPII-CNRS (France) produce MAC curves with the Prospective Outlook on Long-term Energy Systems (POLES) model for the 6 Kyoto Protocol gases. These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.\n\nThe World Bank 2013 low-carbon energy development plan for Nigeria, prepared jointly with the World Bank, ulitizes MAC curves created in Analytica.\n\n"}
{"id": "38469083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38469083", "title": "Matrix representation of Maxwell's equations", "text": "Matrix representation of Maxwell's equations\n\nIn electromagnetism, a branch of fundamental physics, the matrix representations of the Maxwell's equations are a formulation of Maxwell's equations using matrices, complex numbers, and vector calculus. These representations are for a homogeneous medium, an approximation in an inhomogeneous medium. A matrix representation for an inhomogeneous medium was presented using a pair of matrix equations. A single equation using 4 × 4 matrices is necessary and sufficient for any homogeneous medium. For an inhomogeneous medium it necessarily requires 8 × 8 matrices.\n\nMaxwell's equations in the standard vector calculus formalism, in an inhomogeneous medium with sources, are:\n\nThe media is assumed to be linear, that is\n\nwhere ε = ε(r, \"t\") is the permittivity of the medium and μ = μ(r, \"t\") the permeability of the medium (see constitutive equation). For a homogeneous medium ε and μ are constants.\nThe speed of light in the medium is given by\n\nIn vacuum, ε = 8.85 × 10 C·N·m and μ = 4π × 10 H·m\n\nOne possible way to obtain the required matrix representation is\nto use the Riemann-Silberstein vector given by\n\nIf for a certain medium ε = ε(r, \"t\") and μ = μ(r, \"t\") are constants (or can be treated as \"local\" constants under certain approximations), then the vectors F (r, \"t\") satisfy\n\nThus by using the Riemann-Silberstein vector, it is possible to reexpress the Maxwell's equations for a\nmedium with constant ε = ε(r, \"t\") and μ = μ(r, \"t\") as a\npair of equations.\n\nIn order to obtain a single matrix equation instead of a pair, the following new functions\nare constructed using the components of the Riemann-Silberstein vector\n\nThe vectors for the sources are\n\nThen,\n\nwhere * denotes complex conjugation and the triplet, M = (\"M\", \"M\", \"M\") is expressed in terms of\n\nAlternately, one may use the matrix \"J\" = −Ω. Both differ by a sign. For our purpose it is fine to use either Ω or \"J\". However, they have a different meaning: \"J\" is contravariant\nand Ω is covariant. The matrix Ω corresponds to the Lagrange brackets of classical mechanics and \"J\" corresponds to the Poisson brackets. An important relation is Ω = \"J\". The \"M\"-matrices are\n\nEach of the four Maxwell's equations are obtained from the\nmatrix representation. This is done by taking\nthe sums and differences of row-I with row-IV and row-II with row-III\nrespectively. The first three give the \"y\", \"x\" and \"z\" components\nof the curl and the last one gives the divergence conditions.\n\nIt is to be noted that the matrices M are all non-singular and all are Hermitian. Moreover, they satisfy the usual algebra of the Dirac matrices, including,\n\nIt is to be noted that the (Ψ, M) are \"not\" unique. Different choices of Ψ would give rise to different M, such that the triplet M continues to satisfy the algebra of the Dirac matrices. The Ψ \"via\" the Riemann-Silberstein vector has certain advantages over the other possible choices. The Riemann-Silberstein vector is well known in classical electrodynamics and has certain interesting properties and uses.\n\nIn deriving the above 4 × 4 matrix representation of the Maxwell's equations, the spatial and temporal derivatives of ε(r, \"t\") and μ(r, \"t\") in the first two of the Maxwell's equations have been ignored. The ε and μ have been treated as \"local\" constants.\n\nIn an inhomogeneous medium, the spatial and temporal variations of ε = ε(r, \"t\") and μ = μ(r, \"t\") are not zero. \nThat is they are no longer \"local\" constant. Instead of using ε = ε(r, \"t\") and μ = μ(r, \"t\"), it is advantageous to use the two derived \"laboratory functions\" namely the resistance function and the velocity function\n\nIn terms of these functions:\nThese functions occur in the matrix representation through their logarithmic derivatives;\n\nwhere\n\nis the refractive index of the medium.\n\nThe following matrices naturally arise in the exact matrix representation of the Maxwell's equation in a medium\n\nwhere Σ are the Dirac spin matrices and α are the matrices used in the Dirac equation, and σ is the triplet of the Pauli matrices\n\nFinally, the matrix representation is\n\nThe above representation contains thirteen 8 × 8 matrices. Ten of these are Hermitian. The exceptional ones are the ones that contain the three components of w(r, \"t\"), the logarithmic gradient of the resistance function. These three matrices, for the resistance function are antihermitian.\n\nThe Maxwell's equations have been expressed in a matrix form for a medium with varying permittivity ε = ε(r, \"t\") and permeability μ = μ(r, \"t\"), in presence of sources. This representation uses a single matrix equation, instead of a \"pair\" of matrix equations. In this representation, using 8 × 8 matrices, it has been possible to separate the dependence of the coupling between the upper components (Ψ) and the lower components (Ψ) through the two laboratory functions. Moreover, the exact matrix representation has an algebraic structure very similar to the Dirac equation. Maxwell's equations can be derived from the Fermat's principle of geometrical optics by the process of \"wavization\" analogous to the quantization of classical mechanics.\n\nOne of the early uses of the matrix forms of the Maxwell's equations was to study certain symmetries, and the similarities with the Dirac equation.\n\nThe matrix form of the Maxwell's equations is used as a candidate for the Photon Wavefunction.\n\nHistorically, the geometrical optics is based on the Fermat’s principle of least time. Geometrical optics can be completely derived from the Maxwell's equations. This is traditionally done using the Helmholtz equation. It is to be noted that the derivation of the Helmholtz equation from the Maxwell’s equations is an approximation as one neglects the spatial and temporal derivatives of the permittivity and permeability of the medium. A new formalism of light beam optics has been developed, starting with the Maxwell’s equations in a matrix form: a single entity containing all the four Maxwell’s equations.\nSuch a prescription is sure to provide a deeper understanding of beam-optics and polarization in a unified manner.\nThe beam-optical Hamiltonian derived from this matrix representation has an algebraic structure very similar to the Dirac equation, making it amenable to the Foldy-Wouthuysen technique. This approach is very similar to one developed for the quantum theory of charged-particle beam optics.\n\n"}
{"id": "43105232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43105232", "title": "Miroljub Todorović", "text": "Miroljub Todorović\n\nMiroljub Todorović (; born 5 March 1940 in Skoplje) is a Serbian poet and artist. He is the founder and theoretician of Signalism, an international avant-garde literary and artistic movement. He is also editor-in-chief of the International review \"Signal\".\n\nHe was born March 5, 1940 in Skoplje. The war years he spent as a refugee with his mother (a teacher), and his sister in the areas around the Great Morava river, where he finished elementary school. In 1954 the whole family moved to Niš, where he finished high school.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law in 1963. For a time he studied Public International Law at the third instance of the same faculty. A member of the editorial board of the student culture periodical “Vidici”, he participated in the student uprising of 1968. His poem \"March of the Red University\" was multiplied in thousands of copies and adopted by acclamation at the Student Union at the Faculty of Philosophy as the anthem of the University of Belgrade.\n\nIn 1969 he founded the neo-avantgarde literary and artistic movement Signalism, and the following year he launched the International Review “Signal” publishing most important avant-garde authors Raoul Hausmann, Augusto de Campos, Michele Perfetti, Adriano Spatola, Clemente Padin, Julien Blaine, Sarenco, Eugenio Miccini, Richard Kostelanetz, Guillermo Deisler, Bob Cobbing, Eugen Gomringer, Pierre Garnier, Enzo Minarelli, Keiichi Nakamura, Dick Higgins, Dmitry Bulatov, Sol LeWitt, Shozo Shimamoto, Klaus Peter Dencker, Ruggero Maggi, Daniel Daligand, Willi R. Melnikov, Kum-Nam Baik, On Kawara, Klaus Groh etc.\n\nHe worked as a journalist, a high school teacher, secretary of the editorial board, editor and advisor for Interstate and International Cultural Cooperation of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia. In 1982 he retired and fully devoted himself to literary and artistic work.\n\nPoetry, essays, and intermedia works of Miroljub Todorović have been published in several languages: in anthologies, collections, catalogs, newspapers and magazines in Europe, North and South America, Australia, South Korea and Japan.\n\nAs an artist, he had a dozen solo exhibitions and participated in more than six hundred collective international exhibitions of drawings, collages, visual poetry, mail-art and conceptual art.\n\nHe is included in the biographical dictionary “Serbs Who Have Marked the Twentieth Century” (five hundred persons), Belgrade 2006.\n\nOn the work of Miroljub Todorović and Signalism movement that he had founded, three doctoral dissertations have been defended: Dr. Julian Kornhauser, Jagiellonian University in Kraków, Poland, 1980; Dr. Živan Živković, Faculty of Philology in Belgrade, 1991 and Dr. Milivoje Pavlović, University of Kosovska Mitrovica, 2002. Twenty monographs have also been published on the same subject.\n\nIn the holdings of the Library of the Serbian Academy of Arts and Sciences there is a \"Special Miroljub Todorović library\", and in the Historical Archives of Belgrade there is a Legacy “Miroljub Todorović”.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1066948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1066948", "title": "Modus vivendi", "text": "Modus vivendi\n\nModus vivendi is a Latin phrase that means \"mode of living\" or “way of life”. It often is used to mean an arrangement or agreement that allows conflicting parties to coexist in peace. In science it is used to describe lifestyles.\n\n\"Modus\" means \"mode\", \"way\", \"method\", or \"manner\". \"Vivendi\" means \"of living\". The phrase is often used to describe informal and temporary arrangements in political affairs. For example, if two sides reach a \"modus vivendi\" regarding disputed territories, despite political, historical or cultural incompatibilities, an accommodation of their respective differences is established for the sake of contingency.\n\nIn diplomacy, a \"modus vivendi\" is an instrument for establishing an international accord of a temporary or provisional nature, intended to be replaced by a more substantial and thorough agreement, such as a treaty. Armistices and instruments of surrender are intended to achieve a \"modus vivendi\".\n\nIn Season 1, Episode 25, of \"\", entitled \"The Devil in the Dark\", Captain James T. Kirk used the term to describe a possible relationship between miners on a Federation planet and a rock tunneling indigenous species called 'The Horta'. He said, \"Seems to me we could make an agreement, reach a \"modus vivendi\". They tunnel, you collect and process, and your processing operation would be a thousand times more profitable.\"\n\nThe term often refers to Anglo-French relations from the 1815 end of the Napoleonic Wars to the 1904 Entente Cordiale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1312770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1312770", "title": "Multistable perception", "text": "Multistable perception\n\nMultistable perception (or Bistable perception) are a form of perceptual phenomena in which there are unpredictable sequences of spontaneous subjective changes. While usually associated with visual perception (a form of optical illusion), such phenomena can also be found for auditory and olfactory precepts.\n\nPerceptual multistability can be evoked by visual patterns that are too ambiguous for the human visual system to recognize with one unique interpretation. Familiar examples include the Necker cube, Schroeder staircase, structure from motion, monocular rivalry, and binocular rivalry, but many more visually ambiguous patterns are known. Since most of these images lead to an alternation between two mutually exclusive perceptual states, they are sometimes also referred to as bistable perception.\n\nAuditory and olfactory examples can occur when there are conflicting, and so rivaling, inputs into the two ears or two nostrils.\n\nTransitions from one precept to its alternative are called perceptual reversals. They are spontaneous and stochastic events which cannot be eliminated by intentional efforts, although some control over the alternation process is learnable. Reversal rates vary drastically between stimuli and observers, and have been found to be slower for people with bipolar disorder.\n\nHuman interest in these phenomena can be traced back to antiquity. The fascination of multistable perception probably comes from the active nature of endogenous perceptual changes or from the dissociation of dynamic perception from constant sensory stimulation. \n\nMultistable perception was a common feature in the artwork of the Dutch lithographer M. C. Escher, who was strongly influenced by mathematical physicists such as Roger Penrose.\n\nPhotographs of craters, from either the moon or other planets including our own, can exhibit this phenomenon. Craters, in stereo imaging, such as our eyes, should appear to be pit-like structures. However, in mono-vision, such as that of photographs, the elimination of our depth perception causes multistable perception to take over, and this can cause the craters to invert their depth values and instead look like plateaus rather than pits. Sometimes rotating the image so that the photographic direction of the source of light matches a light source in the room can cause the correct perception to suddenly switch.\n\nIn literature, the science fiction novel, \"Dhalgren\", by Samuel R. Delany, contains circular text, multistable perception, and multiple entry points.\n\nMultistable perception arises with the theater segments of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\", as due to the construction of the Crow T. Robot puppet, its head can appear to be facing towards the camera rather than towards the film being shown. This was addressed by the creators of the series, even likening Crow to a Necker cube or The Spinning Dancer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18923695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18923695", "title": "Pneuma (Stoic)", "text": "Pneuma (Stoic)\n\nIn Stoic philosophy, pneuma () is the concept of the \"breath of life,\" a mixture of the elements air (in motion) and fire (as warmth). Originating among Greek medical writers who locate human vitality in the breath, pneuma for the Stoics is the active, generative principle that organizes both the individual and the cosmos. In its highest form, the pneuma constitutes the human soul (\"psychê\"), which is a fragment of the pneuma that is the soul of God. As a force that structures matter, it exists even in inanimate objects.\n\nIn the Stoic universe, everything is constituted of matter and pneuma. There are three grades or kinds of pneuma, depending on their proportion of fire and air.\n\n\nA fourth grade of pneuma may also be distinguished. This is the rational soul (\"logica psychê\") of the mature human being, which grants the power of judgment.\n\nIn Stoic cosmology, everything that exists depends on two first principles which can be neither created nor destroyed: matter, which is passive and inert, and the \"logos\", or divine reason, which is active and organizing. The 3rd-century B.C. Stoic Chrysippus regarded pneuma as the vehicle of \"logos\" in structuring matter, both in animals and in the physical world. Pneuma in its purest form can thus be difficult to distinguish from \"logos\" or the \"constructive fire\" (\"pur technikon\") that drives the cyclical generation and destruction of the Stoic cosmos. When a cycle reaches its end in conflagration (\"ekpyrôsis\"), the cosmos becomes pure pneuma from which it regenerates itself.\n\nThe Stoics conceived of the cosmos as a whole and single entity, a living thing with a soul of its own, a spherical continuum of matter held together by the orderly power of Zeus through the causality of the pneuma that pervades it. This divine pneuma that is the soul of the cosmos supplies the pneuma in its varying grades for everything in the world.\n\nIn his Introduction to the 1964 book \"Meditations\", the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact of Stoicism on Christianity. In particular:\n\nAnother Stoic concept which offered inspiration to the Church was that of 'divine Spirit'. Cleanthes, wishing to give more explicit meaning to Zeno's 'creative fire', had been the first to hit upon the term \"pneuma\", or 'spirit', to describe it. Like fire, this intelligent 'spirit' was imagined as a tenuous substance akin to a current of air or breath, but essentially possessing the quality of warmth; it was immanent in the universe as God, and in man as the soul and life-giving principle. Clearly it is not a long step from this to the 'Holy Spirit' of Christian theology, the 'Lord and Giver of life', visibly manifested as tongues of fire at Pentecost and ever since associated – in the Christian as in the Stoic mind – with the ideas of vital fire and beneficient warmth.\n\n"}
{"id": "34595837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34595837", "title": "Pratima (Jainism)", "text": "Pratima (Jainism)\n\nIn Jainism, Pratima () is a step or a stage marking the spiritual rise of a lay person (\"shravak\"). There are eleven such steps called \"pratima\". After having passed the eleven steps, one is no longer a \"sravaka\", but a \"muni\" (monk).\n\nRules prescribed for laymen are divided into twelve \"vrata\" (vows) and eleven \"pratimas\" (steps) and are described in several codes of conduct (\"shravakacharas\").\n\nThe \"pratimas\" are mentioned in several ancient texts like Ratnakaranda Shravakachara (2nd century A.D.).\n\nThe twelve vows are:\n\nThe eleven stages (\"pratima\") are:\n\nAshadhara in his Sagara-Dharmammrata (13th century) has groups the 11 steps into three ranks.\n\n\nThose who have ascended to the eleventh pratima are termed Kshullaka (with two articles of clothing) and Ailaka (with only one piece of cloth) in the Digambara tradition. The eleventh pratima is termed Shramanabhuta Pratima (being almost like a Shramana) in the Svetambara tradition. The next step is that of a full Jain Muni.\n\n"}
{"id": "1043618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043618", "title": "Predeterminism", "text": "Predeterminism\n\nPredeterminism is the idea that all events are determined in advance. Predeterminism is the philosophy that all events of history, past, present and future, have been already decided or are already known (by God, fate, or some other force), including human actions.\n\nPredeterminism is closely related to determinism. The concept of predeterminism is often argued by invoking causal determinism, implying that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. In the case of predeterminism, this chain of events has been pre-established, and human actions cannot interfere with the outcomes of this pre-established chain. Predeterminism can be used to mean such pre-established causal determinism, in which case it is categorised as a specific type of determinism. It can also be used interchangeably with causal determinism—in the context of its capacity to determine future events. Despite this, predeterminism is often considered as independent of causal determinism. The term predeterminism is also frequently used in the context of biology and hereditary, in which case it represents a form of biological determinism.\n\nPredeterminism is difficult to discuss because its simple definition can logically lead to a variety of similar, complex (and, perhaps, better defined) concepts in metaphysics, theology, and the philosophy of free will. The term \"predeterminism\" suggests not just a determining of all events, but the prior and deliberately conscious determining of all events (therefore done, presumably, by a conscious being). Due to this, predeterminism and the similar term predetermination are easily and often confused or associated with ideas ranging, for instance, from the physicalist (and often scientific) notion of \"causal determinism\" to even the theological (and often religious) notion of \"predestination\".\n\nA secular example to try to illustrate predeterminism is that a fetus's future physical, emotional, and other personal characteristics as a matured human being may be considered \"predetermined\" by heredity, i.e. derived from a chain of events going back long before her eventual birth. However, one of the difficulties with defining predeterminism using this example is that the word \"predetermine\" necessarily implies a conscious being \"doing\" the determining ahead of time. With regards to predetermined heredity, a conscious being (perhaps a genetic scientist) is presumed to be the one speculating on what the fetus's personal characteristics will turn out to be, for example, based on looking at the genomes of the fetus and its ancestors. If there were not this conscious entity, the scientist, then one could say merely that the fetus's characteristics are \"determined\" by heredity, rather than \"pre\"determined. Predeterminism necessarily implies, at the very least, a passive but all-knowing observer, if not an active planner, designer, or manipulator (of the fetus's personal characteristics). This basic scientific idea of hereditary determination, though, already fulfills the definition of causal determinism, a metaphysical concept.\n\nWhile determinism usually refers to a naturalistically explainable causality of events, predeterminism seems by definition to suggest a person or a \"someone\" who is controlling or planning the causality of events \"before\" they occur and who then perhaps resides beyond the natural, causal universe. This creates a definitional conflict because predeterminism, by this understanding, logically leads to a belief in the existence of a conscious being who must determine \"all\" actions and events in advance and who, possessing such seeming omnipotence, almost certainly operates outside of the laws of nature. This conscious entity is probably, then, a being who is omnipotent as well as presumably supernatural and omniscient. The definitional confusion here is that there is already a name for this very concept: predestination. Predestination asserts that a supremely powerful being has, in advance, fixed all events and outcomes in the universe; it is a famous doctrine of the Calvinists in Christian theology.\n\nLikewise, the doctrine of fatalism already explicitly attributes all events and outcomes to the will of a (vaguer) higher power such as fate or destiny. Furthermore, in philosophic debates about the compatibility of free will and determinism, some argue that \"predeterminism\" back to the origin of the universe is simply what philosophers mean by the more common term \"determinism.\" Others have suggested that the term \"self-determination\" be used to describe actions as merely \"determined\" by an agent's reasons, motives, and desires.\n\nWhen various interpretation of the word \"predeterminism\" can be defined even better by other terms, such as the aforementioned determinism, predestination, or fatalism, then the definition of predeterminism itself appears awkward, unclear, and perhaps even worthless in terms of practical or philosophic discussion.\n\nR. E. Hobart is the pseudonym of Dickinson S. Miller, a student of William James who was later one of James' closest personal friends and for some years a colleague in the Harvard philosophy department. Hobart (Miller) criticized the core idea of James' \"The Will to Believe\", namely that it was acceptable to hold religious faith in the absence of evidence for or against that faith. James referred to Miller as \"my most penetrating critic and intimate enemy.\"\n\nNearly 25 years after James' death, R. E. Hobart published a short article in \"Mind\" in 1934 that is considered one of the definitive statements of determinism and compatibilism. It was entitled \"Free Will as Involving Determination and Inconceivable Without It\".\n\nHobart's compatibilism was similar to earlier landmark positions by Thomas Hobbes and David Hume, as refined in the 19th-century compatibilist views of John Stuart Mill, Henry Sidgwick, and F. H. Bradley. But unlike them Hobart explicitly did not endorse \"strict\" logical or physical determinism, and he explicitly did endorse the existence of alternative possibilities, which can depend on absolute chance.\n\nHe was writing just a few years after the discovery of quantum mechanics and indeterminacy, and also makes passing mention of the ancient \"swerve\" of the atoms espoused by Epicurus:\n\n'I am not maintaining that determinism is true...it is not here affirmed that there are no small exceptions, no slight undetermined swervings, no ingredient of absolute chance.'\n\n'\"We say,\" I can will this or I can will that, whichever I choose\". Two courses of action present themselves to my mind. I think of their consequences, I look on this picture and on that, one of them commends itself more than the other, and I will an act that brings it about. I knew that I could choose either. That means that I had the power to choose either.'\n\nHobart supports the existence of alternative possibilities for action and the capability to do otherwise.\n\nAnd he clearly prefers \"determination\" to \"determinism.\" Hobart's article is frequently misquoted as \"Free Will as Involving Determinism.\"\n\nPhilippa Foot is one who misquoted Hobart's title, but who had the same misgivings about determinism.\n\nIn 1957 she wrote an article in The Philosophical Review entitled \"Free Will As Involving Determinism.\"\n\nNevertheless, she criticized arguments that free will requires indeterminism, and in particular the idea that one could not be held responsible for \"chance\" actions chosen for no particular reason.\n\nHer article begins with the observation that determinism has become widely accepted as compatible with free will.\n\n\"The idea that free will can be reconciled with the strictest determinism is now very widely accepted. To say that a man acted freely is, it is often suggested, to say that he was not constrained, or that he could have done otherwise if he had chosen, or something else of that kind; and since these things could be true even if his action was determined it seems that there could be room for free will even within a universe completely subject to causal laws.\"\n\nFoot doubted that the ordinary language meaning of saying our actions are \"determined\" by motives has the same meaning as strict physical determinism, which assumes a causal law that determines every event in the future of the universe.\n\nShe notes that our normal use of \"determined\" does not imply universal determinism.\n\n\"For instance, an action said to be determined by the desires of the man who does it is not necessarily an action for which there is supposed to be a sufficient condition. In saying that it is determined by his desires we may mean merely that he is doing something that he wants to do, or that he is doing it for the sake of something else that he wants. There is nothing in this to suggest determinism in Russell's sense.\"\n\nFoot cited Bertrand Russell's view of causal determinism:\n\n\"The law of universal causation . . . may be enunciated as follows:...given the state of the whole universe...every previous and subsequent event can theoretically be determined.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "873021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873021", "title": "Present", "text": "Present\n\nThe present (or here and now) is the time that is associated with the events perceived directly and in the first time, not as a recollection (perceived more than once) or a speculation (predicted, hypothesis, uncertain). It is a period of time between the past and the future, and can vary in meaning from being an instant to a day or longer. In radiocarbon dating, the \"present\" is defined as AD 1950.\n\nIt is sometimes represented as a hyperplane in space-time, typically called \"now\", although modern physics demonstrates that such a hyperplane cannot be defined uniquely for observers in relative motion. The present may also be viewed as a duration (see \"specious present\").\n\nContemporary history describes the historical timeframe that is immediately relevant to the present time and is a certain perspective of modern history.\n\n\"The present\" raises the question: \"How is it that all sentient beings experience \"now\" at the same time?\" There is no logical reason why this should be the case and no easy answer to the question.\n\nBuddhism and many of its associated paradigms emphasize the importance of living in the present moment — being fully aware of what is happening, and not dwelling on the past or worrying about the future. This does not mean that they encourage hedonism, but merely that constant focus on one's current position in space and time (rather than future considerations, or past reminiscence) will aid one in relieving suffering. They teach that those who live in the present moment are the happiest. A number of meditative techniques aim to help the practiser live in the present moment.\nChristianity views God as being outside of time and, from the divine perspective past, present and future are actualized in the now of eternity. This trans-temporal conception of God has been proposed as a solution to the problem of divine foreknowledge (i.e. how can God know what we will do in the future without us being determined to do it) since at least Boethius. Thomas Aquinas offers the metaphor of a watchman, representing God, standing on a height looking down on a valley to a road where past present and future, represented by the individuals and their actions strung out along its length, are all visible simultaneously to God. Therefore, God's knowledge is not tied to any particular date.\n\n The original intent of the diagram on the right was to portray a 3-dimensional object having access to the past, present, and future in the present moment (4th dimension).\nIt follows from Albert Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity that there is no such thing as absolute simultaneity. When care is taken to operationalise \"the present\", it follows that the events that can be labeled as \"simultaneous\" with a given event, can not be in direct cause-effect relationship. Such collections of events are perceived differently by different observers. Instead, when focusing on \"now\" as the events perceived directly, not as a recollection or a speculation, for a given observer \"now\" takes the form of the observer's past light cone. The light cone of a given event is objectively defined as the collection of events in causal relationship to that event, but each event has a different associated light cone. One has to conclude that in relativistic models of physics there is no place for \"the present\" as an absolute element of reality. Einstein phrased this as: \"People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion\".\n\nIn physical cosmology, the present time in the chronology of the universe is estimated at 13.8 billion years after the singularity determining the arrow of time. \nIn terms of the metric expansion of space, it is in the dark-energy-dominated era, after the universe's matter content has become diluted enough for metric expansion to be dominated by vacuum energy (dark energy). It is also in the universe's Stelliferous Era, after enough time for superclusters to have formed (at about 5 billion years), but before the accelerating expansion of the universe has removed the local supercluster beyond the cosmological horizon (at about 150 billion years).\n\nIn Grammar, actions are classified according to one of the following twelve verb tenses: past (past, past continuous, past perfect, or past perfect continuous), present (present, present continuous, present perfect, or present perfect continuous), or future (future, future continuous, future perfect, or future perfect continuous). The present tense refers to things that are currently happening or are always the case. For example, in the sentence, \"she walks home everyday,\" the verb \"walks\" is in the present tense because it refers to an action that is regularly occurring in the present circumstances.\n\nVerbs in the present continuous tense indicate actions that are currently happening and will continue for a period of time. In the sentence, \"she is walking home,\" the verb phrase \"is walking\" is in the present continuous tense because it refers to a current action that will continue until a certain endpoint (when \"she\" reaches home). Verbs in the present perfect tense indicate actions that started in the past and is completed at the time of speaking. For example, in the sentence, \"She has walked home,\" the verb phrase \"has walked\" is in the present perfect tense because it describes an action that began in the past and is finished as of the current reference to the action. Finally, verbs in the present perfect continuous tense refer to actions that have been continuing up until the current time, thus combining the characteristics of both the continuous and perfect tenses. An example of a present perfect continuous verb phrase can be found in the sentence, \"she has been walking this route for a week now,\" where \"has been walking\" indicates an action that was happening continuously in the past and continues to happen continuously in the present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21036142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21036142", "title": "Resident registration", "text": "Resident registration\n\nA resident register is a government database which contains information on the current residence of persons. In countries where registration of residence is compulsory, the current place of residence must be reported to the registration office or the police within a few days after establishing a new residence. In some countries, residence information may be obtained indirectly from voter registers or registers of driver licenses. Besides a formal resident registers or population registers, residence information needs to be disclosed in many situations, such as voter registration, passport application, and updated in relation to drivers licences, motor vehicle registration, and many other purposes. The permanent place of residence is a common criterion for taxation including the assessment of a person's income tax.\n\nSouth Africa introduced the \"Population Registration Act\" in 1950, which created a national population register, and required the classification of residents based on race, and the issuing of identity cards. This system formed an important part in the pass laws, one of the dominant features of South Africa's apartheid system, after the \"Native Laws Amendment Act\" and the \"Abolition of Passes and Co-ordination of Documents Act\" of 1952 regularized their use. The apartheid system effectively ended in 1986.\n\nCanada does not have compulsory registration of residence, though residence information needs to be disclosed in many situations, such as voter registration, passport application, provincial health care card, and updated in relation to drivers licences, motor vehicle registration, and many other purposes.\n\nNeither the federal government of the United States nor any U.S. state has formal resident registration systems. Refusing or neglecting to answer questions for the United States Census, such as current address, is punishable by fines of $100, for a property or business agent to fail to provide correct names for the census is punishable by fines of $500, and for a business agent to provide false answers for the census is punishable by fines of $10,000. Registrants in the Selective Service System (conscription in the United States) must notify Selective Service within 10 days of any changes to any of the information he provided on his registration card, like a change of address. In California, anyone with a driver's license must notify DMV of a change of address within 10 days or face a typical fine of $214, and anyone who has applied for or received a vehicle registration must notify DMV of a change of address within 10 days or face a typical fine of $178.\n\nVoter registration has a residency requirement and is used for jury assignments and other government tasks.\n\nA person's current address is often registered for state-issued identification cards and driver licenses. In some jurisdictions a \"non-driver's license\" or \"non-driver photo identification card\" is issued as a document containing residence details. Each state has their own requirements for keeping documents up-to-date and may require persons moving into the state to obtain a driver's license from that state within a given period of time (generally 10–90 days).\n\nAliens in the United States staying for more than thirty days are generally required to register with the Federal government pursuant to the Smith Act and carry proof of registration at all times; for permanent residents, the proof of registration comes in the form of a Permanent Residence Card (\"Green card\") while, for other aliens, this can be in the form of either an Employment Authorization Document (EAD) or the I-94 card together with a valid passport.\n\nWithin the Europe Union a regulation for the European-wide census was agreed that allows for a \"register-based census\" that may use the continuously updated information from the national resident registers with a statistical correction drawn from a sample census performed at another magnitude of the census poll. The first register census was performed in 1981 in Denmark, joined later by other Nordic countries. Germany, Austria and Switzerland intend to use a register-based census model for the EU Census scheduled for 2011. Given the financial benefit it is expected that more countries will switch to a register census model.\n\nThe residence reporting requirement () requires a change of address to be registered and deregistered within 3 days. The current place of residence is reported by means of a registration form () sent to the local administrative authority ( or in cities).\n\nOn 1 March 2002 the regional resident registers were centrally stored on the newly established (ZMR). Some larger cities continue to run their own local resident registers ( or LMR), which are synchronized with the central database. A residence document from the database is called , and includes information about third persons unless those have filed to restrict public access (). As of 2006 the ZMR was extended to include additional personal details from the civil registers; It is envisaged to include records from even more government databases.\n\nPermanent access to the ZMR is granted to some profession that require regular residence checks like lawyers, banks, professional associations and collection agencies.\n\nIn Belgium, a change of address must be declared to the municipality within eight days of its occurrence. The municipality verifies the change of address by sending a police or municipal officer to the new address. If the change of residence is confirmed it is registered in the municipal and national registers and the resident or residents concerned must present themselves to the municipal administration to have their national identity card and any motor vehicle registration papers updated. The change of address is forwarded by the municipality to social security agencies.\n\nThe compulsory resident register was handled separately by the regional offices even before Yugoslavia was split into sovereign states.\n\nThe compulsory resident register is run by the \"folkeregister\" which hands out a CPR-Number (Central Person Register number). Foreigners need to register when intending to stay longer than six months.\n\nThe compulsory resident register is run by the Population Register Centre, a government agency that also hands out the Personal Identity Code, which consists of eleven characters: six digits for the birth date, one character for the birth century, three additional digits and a checksum character. Many companies and societies have registered for direct access to the resident register. Upon relocation, one only needs to declare the new address to the resident register and these companies will update their address registers accordingly. Although this makes it easier to handle the administrative tasks of taking a new home it has also been criticized for its lack of personal data privacy.\n\nFrance utilizes a national identity card ( or CNIS), an official non-compulsory identity document. The address information on the card is merely derived from other documents like electricity bills. There is no requirement to notify change of address, which leads to the situation that the current address is often verified by showing bills relating to the current home.\n\nThere are plans to introduce a new identity card ( or INES) that was to be implemented starting in 2007, but they are still in the legislative process. The scheme bears many similarities to the British ID card.\n\nThe resident registration is a task of the community which do often create a separate resident registration offices to run the resident register ( or ). The resident register is a public register in Germany — within the limits of resident privacy () laws and regulations. Since 2007 the registration office will electronically de-register at the registration office of the old residency. The concept of the registered primary residence () has special legal ramifications, primarily involving tax.\n\nAlthough Germany (similarly to Austria and Switzerland) has a strict registration system for centuries, there had been a strong opposition towards a single identification number. All registration numbers were local to the Registration Office — even split within a single community to the office for civil register, tax office, etc. In 2008 a new system was introduced with a national tax payer number. It is still debated how much more information will be attached to the national identification number when the federal resident register is activated.\n\nContrary to popular belief, there is no central administration of resident registration in Germany. The exception is the registration of resident aliens (see Central Register of Foreign Nationals (Germany)). Registration is organized by 5283 local offices throughout Germany. Until 2009, the legal requirements pertaining to resident registration were governed by state legislation, which differed in terms of the period allowed to register a change of address (immediately in RP; within 1 week in BW, BY, HH, HE, MV, NI, NW, SL, ST, TH; and within two weeks in BE, BB, HB, SH, and SN). Each state was able to produce its own laws and regulations governing access to personal information in the register and the fees for providing a residency document ( for oneself or for a third person.\n\nThe \"Federalism Reform\", which became effective on 1 September 2006, has moved the legislation for resident registration to the federal level. The Federal Ministry of the Interior was preparing a federal law to replace the state laws on resident registration which scheduled to get effective by 2010. The new law would assign that a Federal Resident Register (\"Bundesmelderegister\") shall be created to be run in parallel with the local resident registers. The nationwide register shall assemble a number of personal identifying information drawing from multiple sources including resident registers, civil registers and taxation offices. During a scandal with list brokers obtaining large amounts of addresses from catalog selling company databases in 2008, the coalition split up over the question — Brigitte Zypries (SPD) opposed the plans of the ministry of interior led by Wolfgang Schäuble (CDU). She proposed that the current local registration offices should be networked instead. In the new government of CDU and FDP the plans are blocked, as such a central database is in clear opposition to the FDP's aim to increase data privacy.\n\nEU citizens who plan to reside in Greece for a period of more than 90 days are required to register themselves at the Department of Foreigners ( located at the police stations, in the area of residency (), where a Certificate of Registration () in beige color is issued. According to the Greek law, EU citizens who do not register are subject to a fine. However, it is very rare that this certificate is ever requested. Some Greek authorities are not even aware of the European Union directive and do not know that this certificate exists. In many cases, the tax identification number (AFM) () is used as proof of residency.\nEU citizens living in Greece for more than 5 years can apply for Permanent Residence Certificate ().\n\nThe compulsory resident register is run by \"Központi Adatfeldolgozó, Nyilvántartó és Választási Hivatal, Igazgatási és Felügyeleti Föösztály\" in Budapest. Hungarian citizens will declare their residency to the local administration while foreigners will register in the immigration office.\n\nIceland has a central register of residents. Registration is compulsory.\n\nIn Italy the registration of residence is compulsory and the records are kept on a decentralized system. Unlike other countries a reported place of residence is physically checked by government officials as well as the de-registration of a previous residence. Hence, the official confirmation may take up to four months. Residents moving to a new place of residence abroad are recorded as expatriates on the database \"Anagrafe degli Italiani Residenti all'Estero (A.I.R.E.)\" (Registry of Italians Resident Abroad). When they return to Italy, they are de-registered from A.I.R.E and their new residence is registered by the local administrative authority.\n\nA.I.R.E. enrolment is obligatory for citizens who take up residence in a foreign country for more than 12 months and for citizens residing abroad either as a result of being born there or having obtained Italian citizenship for any reason whatsoever. Enrolment in the A.I.R.E. is done by means of a declaration (special form available) made to the locally competent consular office within 90 days of transfer abroad.\n\nA change of address or move must be declared to the local authorities of the new place of residence within eight days (including arrivals by EU/EEA citizens). Non-EU citizens, however, must declare their arrival to the local authorities within three days, regardless of their intended duration of stay. A permanent or indefinite departure from Luxembourgish territory must also be declared to the local authorities no later than the day before the departure.\n\nThe compulsory resident register was run by the \"Bureau Vestigingsregister\" in The Hague until 1994.\n\nSince 1994 the Municipal Basic Administration of Personal Information (Gemeentelijke Basisadministratie Persoonsgegevens or GBA) is used. This is a central database fed into by all Dutch municipalities. All residents of the Netherlands (citizens and non-citizens alike) are required to register with their municipality.\n\nThe Norwegian register of residents is \"Det sentrale folkeregisteret (DSF)\", otherwise commonly called \"Folkeregisteret\". The English translation is the \"National Population Register\".\n\nThis register is compulsory for all inhabitants of Norway, but foreigners only need to register when they intend to stay longer than 3 months.\n\nThe Norwegian Tax Administration is responsible for ensuring that the register is complete and up-to-date. The Register contains the following person information: birth date, name, paternity and parental responsibility, residence address, marital status, possible death date, citizenship and several other information elements. It tracks both the current value of these elements and historical versions. It is also used as basis for the tax register, the electoral register and is used for population statistics. Information from the Register is used by most other government agencies, such as the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV).\n\nThere is no resident register in Portugal.\n\nRomania utilizes the national identity card ( or CI) system, based on an official compulsory identity document for the registration of all residents. The service is locally administered under the co-ordination of the Directorate for Persons Record and Databases Management (from the Ministers of Administration and Interior). There is a requirement to notify any change of address.\n\nResidence registration is compulsory in Russian Federation. There are separate registers for Russian citizens and foreign citizens or stateless persons, both administered by the Main Directorate for Migration Affairs which is a department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Anyone may request address information for a specific person from these registers, but a consent for the address disclosure from the latter is obligatory and will be checked by the register operator. In many cases government offices will refuse to provide services to people who are not registered in districts where these offices are located, although the law does not allow to do so to people who are not registered at all.\n\nRussian citizens must register their permanent residence within 7 days, temporary residence must be registered after staying in the same place for more than 90 days.\n\nForeign citizens and stateless persons who have residence permits are obliged to register their permanent residence within 7 days. Temporary residence of foreign citizens and stateless persons is registered on an application from their host (including an employer, hotel administration, etc.). Such an application should be filed within 7 days.\n\nApplications are delivered to Main Directorate for Migration Affairs offices by communal services companies, by applicants themselves, by post or by means of electronic government.\n\nRussian citizens who fail to register in time can be fined 2000-2500 rubles ($70–$80). Russian hosts who fail to register their foreign guests in time can be fined 2000-500000 rubles ($70–$17000). Foreign citizens who fail to register in time can be fined 2000-5000 rubles ($70–$170).\n\nThe compulsory resident register was handled separately by the regional offices even before the Yugoslavia was split into sovereign states.\n\nThe mandatory Swedish population register () is administered by the Swedish Tax Agency (), which also administers the Swedish personal identity number (), the national identification number.\n\nAlmost all companies have registered for direct access to the resident register like telephone companies, electricity companies and so on. This leads to the situation that upon relocation one does only need to declare the new address to the resident register and all bills will be rerouted automatically to the new location. Although this makes it easier to handle the administrative tasks of taking a new home it has also been criticized for its lack of personal data privacy.\n\nThe compulsory resident registration is called \"Einwohnerkontrolle\" (residents' control) in Liechtenstein and the German-speaking parts of Switzerland. The residents' registers are subject to the local authority named \"Einwohneramt\" (residency office), \"Einwohnerkontrolle\" (residents registry office) or \"Personenmeldeamt\" (persons' registration office). Foreign residents are subject to the federal residents' register run by the immigration office. Each relocation must be declared to the residents' register including notice of departure when moving abroad.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there is no resident registration as such. The head of a household is required to register eligible voters in the household, although mandatory individual registration pursuant to the Political Parties and Elections Act 2009 is planned; registration is mandatory pursuant to section 23 of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001 (No. 341). Completion of the Census is mandatory pursuant to section 8 of the Census Act 1920.\n\nThe Identity Cards Act 2006 provided for the introduction of British ID cards which were to be linked to a system of resident registration which would also contain any information deemed necessary by the government; however, following the 2010 General Election this scheme was abolished by the Identity Documents Act 2010.\n\nAustralia does not have compulsory registration of residence, though residence information needs to be disclosed in many situations, such as voter registration, passport application, state health care card, and updated in relation to drivers licences, motor vehicle registration, and many other purposes.\n\nIn China the Hukou system is used for resident registration and civil registration. This system was inherited from imperial times and there is an interest to reform the legislation about it.\n\nIn Japan the \"koseki\" system is used to record Japanese families and the \"juminhyo\" system is used to record individual residents. Foreigners need to register within 90 days under the premises of the laws for alien registration in Japan that creates a separate database for alien residents.\n\nThe Residents Basic Registry Network or \"Juki Net“ was introduced in 2003. This is introduced to increase government efficiency with 264 government tasks to be attached to the new system. In the new system a person identification number is handed out consisting of eleven digits that can be used as a replacement for other identification documents.\n\nIn Pakistan the NADRA system is used to record Pakistani families and the District Council system is used to record individual residents. Foreigners need to register within 90 days under the premises of the laws for alien registration in Pakistan that creates a separate database for alien residents.\n\nThe resident registration number in South Korea consist of 13 digits that is also shown on the ID cards. Foreigners will receive a replacement number on their alien registration cards. The usage of the registration number is abundant including one third of the national internet websites require sign-up with the registration number and another third being unable to accept the alien registration card number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17783140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17783140", "title": "Richard Assmann", "text": "Richard Assmann\n\nRichard Assmann (Anglicized spelling of the German name Richard Aßmann); (13 April 1845 in Magdeburg – 28 May 1918 in Gießen) was a German meteorologist and physician who was a native of Magdeburg. He made numerous contributions in high altitude research of the Earth's atmosphere. He was a pioneer of scientific aeronautics and considered a co-founder of aerology. \n\nIn 1868 he received his medical doctorate in Berlin, and from 1870 to 1879 was a general practitioner in Bad Freienwalde. In 1879 he returned to Magdeburg to practice medicine. In 1885 he earned a doctorate in secondary studies at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Halle, and subsequently became a scientific officer at the Royal Meteorological Institute at Berlin-Grünau. From 1905 to 1914 Assmann was director of the Prussian Royal Aeronautical Observatory at , and afterwards was an honorary professor at the University of Giessen.\n\nFrom 1887 to 1892, with airship designer Rudolf Hans Bartsch von Sigsfeld (1861–1902), he developed a psychrometer for accurate measurement of atmospheric humidity and temperature. This was the first instrument that was able to provide reliable temperature readings with high altitude balloons, as it was capable of shielding its thermometric elements from solar radiation. The technical implementation and production of this device took place in the factory of Rudolf Fuess (1838–1917).\n\nFrom 1888 to 1899, he was a member of the \"Verein zur Förderung der Luftschifffahrt\", from which he organized scientific balloon ascents in order to study the atmosphere. From these studies, valuable insights in regards to atmospheric stratification of the troposphere were made. He is also credited for popularizing the field of meteorology, and played a significant role in several scientific newspapers and magazines during his career. From 1884 until his death, Assmann published the popular monthly magazine \"Das Wetter\" (The Weather). \n\nWith Léon Teisserenc de Bort (1855–1913), he is credited as co-discoverer of the stratosphere, as both men announced their discovery during the same time period in 1902. \n\nIn 1903, with meteorologist Arthur Berson (1859–1942), he was awarded the Buys Ballot Medal by the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36955956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36955956", "title": "Right to homeland", "text": "Right to homeland\n\nThe right to homeland is according to some legal scholars a universal human right, which is derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, including its Article 9. The concept evolved in German jurisprudence and is recognized in German constitutional law to a certain degree. Notable proponents of the concept include legal scholars Kurl Rabl, Rudolf Laun, Otto Kimminich, Dieter Blumenwitz, Felix Ermacora and Alfred-Maurice de Zayas. The concept is relevant to debates concerning ethnic cleansing in Europe after World War II (notably of Germans and Hungarians), ethnic cleansing in Palestine, Cyprus and other areas.\n"}
{"id": "432375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432375", "title": "Risk neutral preferences", "text": "Risk neutral preferences\n\nIn economics and finance, risk neutral preferences are preferences that are neither risk averse nor risk seeking. A risk neutral party's decisions are not affected by the degree of uncertainty in a set of outcomes, so a risk neutral party is indifferent between choices with equal expected payoffs even if one choice is riskier. For example, if offered either $50 or a 50% chance each of $100 and $0, a risk neutral person would have no preference. In contrast, a risk averse person would prefer the first offer, while a risk seeking person would prefer the second.\n\nIn the context of the theory of the firm, a risk neutral firm facing risk about the market price of its product, and caring only about profit, would maximize the expected value of its profit (with respect to its choices of labor input usage, output produced, etc.). But a risk averse firm in the same environment would typically take a more cautious approach.\n\nIn portfolio choice, a risk neutral investor who is able to choose any combination of an array of risky assets (various companies' stocks, various companies' bonds, etc.) would invest exclusively in the asset with the highest expected yield, ignoring its risk features relative to those of other assets, and would even sell short the asset with the lowest expected yield as much as is permitted in order to invest the proceeds in the highest expected-yield asset. In contrast, a risk averse investor would diversify among a variety of assets, taking account of their risk features, even though doing so would lower the expected return on the overall portfolio. The risk neutral investor's portfolio would have a higher expected return, but also a greater variance of possible returns.\n\nChoice under uncertainty is often characterized as the maximization of expected utility. Utility is often assumed to be a function of profit or final portfolio wealth, with a positive first derivative. The utility function whose expected value is maximized is concave for a risk averse agent, convex for a risk lover, and linear for a risk neutral agent. Thus in the risk neutral case, expected utility of wealth is simply equal to a linear function of expected wealth, and maximizing it is equivalent to maximizing expected wealth itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "5449205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5449205", "title": "Round of drinks", "text": "Round of drinks\n\nA round of drinks is a set of alcoholic beverages purchased by one person in a group for that complete group. The purchaser buys the round of drinks as a single order at the bar. In many places it is customary for people to take turns buying rounds.\n\nIt is a nearly ubiquitous custom in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia. In Australia and New Zealand it is referred to as shouting. This practice is also customary in many parts of North America, especially in areas where people with cultural roots in Ireland and the UK predominate.\nA notable exception was the UK State Management Scheme in which treating (i.e. buying a round) was forbidden, from July 1916 until June 1919.\n\nIn John O'Grady's \"They're a Weird Mob\", Nino learns some customs related to shouting.\n\nYour turn.\"\nYour turn to shout\"\nBecause I shouted you.\"\nHe thought for a while and said, I get it. When you buy a bloke a beer, it's called a shout, see?\"\nI haven't a clue, but that's what it's called. I shouted for you, now it's your turn to shout for me.\"\nHe looked quite stern, In this country, if you want to keep out of trouble, you always return a shout, see?\"\nBloody oath, it's the custom. Your turn.\"\nIn the culture of the United States Military, possession of a challenge coin can be used to determine who buys a round of drinks. One individual of a group lays down their coin, and all else present must lay down their coins as well. Anyone who does not have a coin with them must buy a round. If everyone can produce a coin, the challenger must buy a round.\n"}
{"id": "356999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356999", "title": "Self-deception", "text": "Self-deception\n\nSelf-deception is a process of denying or rationalizing away the relevance, significance, or importance of opposing evidence and logical argument. Self-deception involves convincing oneself of a truth (or lack of truth) so that one does not reveal any self-knowledge of the deception.\n\nWhile Freudian analysis of the conscious and the unconscious minds dominated the field, more and more psychological scientists became curious about how those two seemingly separate worlds could work together in the 70s. However, due to the lack of mechanistic models available to this line of research, the debate was put on pause. Later, the focus has been shifted to vision-related research in social psychology.\n\nThe traditional paradigm of self-deception is modeled after \"interpersonal\" deception, where \"A\" intentionally gets \"B\" to believe some proposition \"p\", all the while knowing or believing truly ¬\"p\" (not \"p\"). Such deception is intentional and requires the deceiver to know or believe ¬\"p\" and the deceived to believe \"p\". On this traditional mode, self-deceivers must (1) hold contradictory beliefs and (2) intentionally get themselves to hold a belief they know or believe truly to be false.\n\nThe process of rationalization, however, can obscure the intent of self-deception. Brian McLaughlin illustrates that such rationalizations in certain circumstances permit the phenomenon. When a person, who disbelieves \"p\", intentionally tries to make himself believe or continue believing \"p\" by engaging in such activities, and, as a result unintentionally misleads himself into believing or continuing to believe \"p\" via biased thinking, he deceives himself in a way appropriate for self-deception. No deceitful intention is required for this.\n\nSelf-deception calls into question the nature of the individual, specifically in a psychological context and the nature of \"self\". Irrationality is the foundation upon which the argued paradoxes of self-deception stem, and it is argued that not everyone has the \"special talents\" and capacities for self-deception. However, rationalization is influenced by a myriad of factors, including socialization, personal biases, fear, and cognitive repression. Such rationalization can be manipulated in both positive and negative fashions; convincing one to perceive a negative situation optimistically and vice versa. In contrast, rationalization alone cannot effectively clarify the dynamics of self-deception, as reason is just one adaptive form mental processes can take.\n\nThe works of philosopher Alfred R. Mele have provided insight into some of the more prominent paradoxes regarding self-deception. Two of these paradoxes include the self-deceiver's state of mind and the dynamics of self-deception, coined the \"static\" paradox and the \"dynamic/strategic\" paradox, respectively.\n\nMele formulates an example of the \"static\" paradox as the following:\nIf ever a person \"A\" deceives a person \"B\" into believing that something, \"p\", is true, \"A\" knows or truly believes that \"p\" is false while causing \"B\" to believe that \"p\" is true. So when \"A\" deceives \"A\" (i.e., himself) into believing that \"p\" is true, he knows or truly believes that \"p\" is false while causing himself to believe that \"p\" is true. Thus, \"A\" must simultaneously believe that \"p\" is false and believe that \"p\" is true. But how is this possible?\n\nMele then describes the \"dynamic/strategy\" paradox:\nIn general, \"A\" cannot successfully employ a deceptive strategy against \"B\" if \"B\" knows \"A\"'s intention and plan. This seems plausible as well when \"A\" and \"B\" are the same person. A potential self-deceiver's knowledge of his intention and strategy would seem typically to render them ineffective. On the other hand, the suggestion that self-deceivers typically successfully execute their self-deceptive strategies without knowing what they are up to may seem absurd; for an agent's effective execution of his plans seems generally to depend on his cognizance of them and their goals. So how, in general, can an agent deceive himself by employing a self-deceptive strategy?\n\nThese models call into question how one can simultaneously hold contradictory beliefs (\"static\" paradox) and deceive oneself without rendering one's intentions ineffective (\"dynamic/strategic\" paradox). Attempts at a resolution to these have created two schools of thought: one that maintains that paradigmatic cases of self-deception are intentional and one that denies the notion—\"intentionalists\" and \"non-intentionalists\", respectively.\n\nIntentionalists tend to agree that self-deception is intentional, but divide over whether it requires the holding of contradictory beliefs. This school of thought incorporates elements of temporal partitioning (extended over time to benefit the self-deceiver, increasing the chance of forgetting the deception altogether) and psychological partitioning (incorporating various aspects of the \"self\").\n\nNon-intentionalists, in contrast, tend to believe that cases of self-deception are not necessarily accidental, but motivated by desire, anxiety, or some other emotion regarding \"p\" or related to \"p\". This notion distinguishes self-deception from misunderstanding. Furthermore, \"wishful thinking\" is distinguished from self-deception in that the self-deceivers recognize evidence against their self-deceptive belief or possess, without recognizing, greater counterevidence than wishful thinkers.\n\nNumerous questions and debates remain in play with respect to the paradoxes of self-deception, and a consensual paradigm has yet to appear.\n\nIt has been theorized that humans are susceptible to self-deception because most people have emotional attachments to beliefs, which in some cases may be irrational. Some evolutionary biologists, such as Robert Trivers, have suggested that deception plays a significant part in human behavior, and in animal behavior, more generally speaking. One deceives oneself to trust something that is not true as to better convince others of that truth. When a person convinces himself of this untrue thing, they better mask the signs of deception.\n\nThis notion is based on the following logic: deception is a fundamental aspect of communication in nature, both between and within species. It has evolved so that one can have an advantage over another. From alarm calls to mimicry, animals use deception to further their survival. Those who are better able to perceive deception are more likely to survive. As a result, self-deception evolved to better mask deception from those who perceive it well, as Trivers puts it: \"Hiding the truth from yourself to hide it more deeply from others.\" In humans, awareness of the fact that one is acting deceptively often leads to tell-tale signs of deception, such as nostrils flaring, clammy skin, quality and tone of voice, eye movement, or excessive blinking. Therefore, if self-deception enables someone to believe her or his own distortions, they will not present such signs of deception and will therefore appear to be telling the truth.\n\nSelf-deception can be used both to act greater or lesser than one actually is. For example, one can act overconfident to attract a mate or act under-confident to avoid a predator or threat. If a person is capable of concealing their true feelings and intentions well, then they are more likely to successfully deceive others.\n\nIt may also be argued that the ability to deceive, or self-deceive, is not the selected trait but a by-product of a more primary trait called abstract thinking. Abstract thinking allows many evolutionary advantages such as more flexible, adaptive behaviors and innovation. Since a lie is an abstraction, the mental process of creating a lie can only occur in animals with enough brain complexity to permit abstract thinking. Moreover, self-deception lowers cognitive cost; that is to say, if one has convinced oneself that that very thing is indeed true, it is less complicated for one to behave or think in a certain manner. The mind will not have to think constantly of the true thing and then the false thing, but simply convince itself that the false thing is true.\n\nBecause there is deceit, there exists a strong selection to recognize when deception occurs. As a result, self-deception evolves so as to better hide the signs of deception from others. The presence of deception explains the existence of an innate ability to commit self-deception to hide the indications of deceptions. Humans deceive themselves in order to better deceive others and thus have an advantage over them. In the three decades since Trivers introduced his adaptive theory of self-deception, there has been an ongoing debate over the question of such behavior having a genetic basis.\n\nThe explanation of deception and self-deception as innate characteristics is perhaps true, but there are many other explanations for this pattern of behavior. It is possible that the ability to self-deceive is not innate, but a learned trait, acquired through experience. For example, a person could have been caught being deceitful by revealing their knowledge of information they were trying to hide. Their nostrils flared, indicating that they were lying to the other person, and thus did not get what they wanted. Next time, to better achieve success, the person will more actively deceive himself of having knowledge to better hide the signs of deception. People, therefore, could have the capacity to learn self-deception. However, simply because something is learned does not mean that it is not innate; what is learned and what is innate work in conjunction . This is outlined in many introductory textbooks in evolutionary psychology. . For example, preparedness (learning) occurs in learning to explain why some behaviours are more easily learned in others. Certain attributes, while they may be learned, are also innate. . Evolutionary psychologists argue that there are learning mechanisms that allow learning to occur. Thus, while self-deception may be learned, this does not negate that is evolutionary nor genetic.\n\nSelf-deception has a prominent role in several medical conditions, such as borderline personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder, and histrionic personality disorder.\n\nSimple instances of self-deception include common occurrences such as: the alcoholic who is self-deceived in believing that his drinking is under control, the husband who is self-deceived in believing that his wife is not having an affair, the jealous colleague who is self-deceived in believing that her colleague's greater professional success is due to ruthless ambition.\n\nAn example of self-deception is provided by Robert Trivers and Huey P. Newton published in the form of an analysis of the role of flight crew self-deception in the crash of Air Florida Flight 90.\n\nThe claim that not being conscious about deception would decrease the body language signs of lying is criticized for being incompatible with the unconscious nature of body language as in body language giving away non-conscious processes, as well as for not being able to account for why evolutionary selection for lying would allow a body language that gives away lying to exist instead of simply selecting for lack of such signals.\n\nThe notion that non-conscious deception would be less costly than conscious deception is subject to criticism, citing that a non-conscious lie followed by a process of creating a conscious confabulation would amount to more, not fewer, brain processes than simply making up a conscious lie.\n\nThe concept of self-deception is criticized for being able to classify any criticism of the notion of self-deception as being self-deception in itself, removing its falsifiability and therefore making it unscientific, and also for being an obstacle to science in general by being able to classify anything as self-deception in a way that confirms itself in a way that is not self-correcting.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168187", "title": "Sentience", "text": "Sentience\n\nSentience is the capacity to feel, perceive or experience subjectively. Eighteenth-century philosophers used the concept to distinguish the ability to think (\"reason\") from the ability to feel (\"sentience\"). In modern Western philosophy, sentience is the ability to experience sensations (known in philosophy of mind as \"qualia\"). In Eastern philosophy, sentience is a metaphysical quality of all things that require respect and care. The concept is central to the philosophy of animal rights because sentience is necessary for the ability to suffer, and thus is held to confer certain rights.\n\nIn the philosophy of consciousness, \"sentience\" can refer to the ability of any entity to have subjective perceptual experiences, or as some philosophers refer to them, \"qualia\". This is distinct from other aspects of the mind and consciousness, such as creativity, intelligence, sapience, self-awareness, and intentionality (the ability to have thoughts about something). Sentience is a minimalistic way of defining \"consciousness\", which otherwise commonly and collectively describes sentience plus other characteristics of the mind.\n\nSome philosophers, notably Colin McGinn, believe that sentience will never be understood, a position known as \"new mysterianism\". They do not deny that most other aspects of consciousness are subject to scientific investigation but they argue that subjective experiences will never be explained; i.e., sentience is the \"only\" aspect of consciousness that can't be explained. Other philosophers (such as Daniel Dennett, who also argues that non-human animals are not sentient) disagree, arguing that all aspects of consciousness will eventually be explained by science.\n\nEastern religions including Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism, and Jainism recognise non-humans as sentient beings. In Jainism and Hinduism, this is closely related to the concept of ahimsa, nonviolence toward other beings. In Jainism, all matter is endowed with sentience; there are five degrees of sentience, from one to five. Water, for example, is a sentient being of the first order, as it is considered to possess only one sense, that of touch. Man is considered a sentient being of the fifth order. According to Buddhism, sentient beings made of pure consciousness are possible. In Mahayana Buddhism, which includes Zen and Tibetan Buddhism, the concept is related to the Bodhisattva, an enlightened being devoted to the liberation of others. The first vow of a Bodhisattva states: \"Sentient beings are numberless; I vow to free them.\"\n\nSentience in Buddhism is the state of having senses (\"sat + ta\" in Pali, or \"sat + tva\" in Sanskrit). In Buddhism, there are six senses, the sixth being the subjective experience of the mind. Sentience is simply awareness prior to the arising of Skandha. Thus, an animal qualifies as a sentient being.\n\nIn the philosophies of animal welfare and rights, sentience implies the ability to experience pleasure and pain. Additionally, it has been argued, as in the documentary \"Earthlings\": \n\nAnimal-welfare advocates typically argue that any sentient being is entitled, at a minimum, to protection from unnecessary suffering, though animal-rights advocates may differ on what rights (e.g., the right to life) may be entailed by simple sentience. Sentiocentrism describes the theory that sentient individuals are the center of moral concern.\n\nThe 18th-century philosopher Jeremy Bentham compiled enlightenment beliefs in \"Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\", and he included his own reasoning in a comparison between slavery and sadism toward animals:\n\nIn the 20th century, Princeton University professor Peter Singer argued that Bentham's conclusion is often dismissed by an appeal to a distinction that condemns human suffering but allows non-human suffering, typically \"appeals\" that are logical fallacies (unless the distinction is factual, in which case the appeal is just one logical fallacy, \"petitio principii\"). Because many of the suggested distinguishing features of humanity—extreme intelligence; highly complex language; etc.—are not present in marginal cases such as mute humans, young children, deaf humans, and mentally disabled humans, it appears that the only distinction is a prejudice based on species alone, which animal-rights supporters call speciesism—that is, differentiating humans from other animals purely on the grounds that they are human. His opponents accuse him of the same petitio principii.\n\nGary Francione also bases his abolitionist theory of animal rights, which differs significantly from Singer's, on sentience. He asserts that, \"All sentient beings, humans or nonhuman, have one right: the basic right not to be treated as the property of others.\"\n\nAndrew Linzey, founder of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics in England, is known as a foremost international advocate for recognising animals as sentient beings in biblically based faith traditions. The Interfaith Association of Animal Chaplains encourages animal ministry groups to adopt a policy of recognising and valuing sentient beings.\n\nIn 1997 the concept of animal sentience was written into the basic law of the European Union. The legally binding protocol annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam recognises that animals are \"sentient beings\", and requires the EU and its member states to \"pay full regard to the welfare requirements of animals\".\n\nThe laws of several states include certain invertebrates such as cephalopods (octopuses, squids) and decapod crustaceans (lobsters, crabs) in the scope of animal protection laws, implying that these animals are also judged capable of experiencing pain and suffering.\n\nThe term \"sentience\" is not used by major artificial intelligence textbooks and researchers. It is sometimes used in popular accounts of AI to describe \"human level or higher intelligence\" (or artificial general intelligence).\n\nIn science fiction, an alien, android, robot, hologram, or computer described as \"sentient\" is usually treated as a fully human character, with similar rights, qualities, and capabilities as any other character; it is not human, but in this work of fiction it has genuine \"personhood\". \"Sentience\", in this context, is a hypothetical essential human property that brings many other qualities associated with personhood with it, such as will, desire, intelligence, autonomy, humor, aesthetic appreciation and so on. Science fiction uses the words \"intelligence\", \"sapience\", \"self-awareness\", and \"consciousness\" in similar ways.\n\nThis unique definition permits usage that would not make sense outside of science fiction. For example, Commander Data describing his cat as \"not sentient\" in one episode of \"\", whereas the term was originally used (by philosopher Jeremy Bentham and others) to emphasize the sentience of animals (certainly including cats).\n\nScience fiction has explored several forms of consciousness beside that of the individual human mind, and how such forms might perceive and function. These include group sentience, where a single mind is composed of multiple non-sentient members (sometimes capable of reintegration, where members can be gained or lost, resulting in gradually shifting mentalities); hive sentience, which is the extreme form of insect hives, with a single sentience extended over huge numbers of non-sentient bodies; and transient sentience, where a lifeform is sentient of that transience.\n\nThe sentience quotient concept was introduced by Robert A. Freitas Jr. in the late 1970s. It defines sentience as the relationship between the information processing rate of each individual processing unit (neuron), the weight/size of a single unit, and the total number of processing units (expressed as mass). It was proposed as a measure for the sentience of all living beings and computers from a single neuron up to a hypothetical being at the theoretical computational limit of the entire universe. On a logarithmic scale it runs from −70 up to +50.\n\n"}
{"id": "1949071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949071", "title": "Settlement movement", "text": "Settlement movement\n\nThe settlement movement was a reformist social movement that began in the 1880s and peaked around the 1920s in England and the U.S. Its goal was to bring the rich and the poor of society together in both physical proximity and social interconnectedness. Its main object was the establishment of \"settlement houses\" in poor urban areas, in which volunteer middle-class \"settlement workers\" would live, hoping to share knowledge and culture with, and alleviate the poverty of, their low-income neighbors. The \"settlement houses\" provided services such as daycare, education, and healthcare to improve the lives of the poor in these areas.\n\nThe movement started in London in 1884 with the founding of Toynbee Hall. These houses, radically different from those in America, often offered food, shelter, and basic and higher education, provided by virtue of charity on part of wealthy donors, the residents of the city, and (for education) scholars who volunteered their time.\n\nVictorian England, increasingly concerned with poverty, gave rise to the movement whereby those connected to universities settled students in slum areas to live and work alongside local people. Through their efforts settlement houses were established for education, savings, sports, and arts. Such institutions were often praised by religious representatives concerned with the lives of the poor, and criticised as normative or moralistic by radical social movements.\n\nThere were basic commonalities in the movement. These institutions were more concerned with societal causes for poverty, especially the changes that came with industrialisation, rather than personal causes which their predecessors believed were the main reason for poverty. The settlement movement believed that social reform was best pursued and pushed for by private charities.\nThe British Association of Settlements and Social Action Centres is a network of such organisations. During the social Christian movement, Samuel and Henrietta Barnett founded Toynbee Hall, Oxford House in 1884 in Bethnal Green. Other early examples include Browning Hall, formed in Walworth in 1895 by Francis Herbert Stead, and Mansfield House Settlement, also in east London (see Percy Alden). There is also a global network, the International Federation of Settlements.\n\nThe movement gave rise to many social policy initiatives and innovative ways of working to improve the conditions of the most excluded members of society. The Poor Man's Lawyer service came about because a barrister volunteered his time and encouraged his friends to do the same. In general, the settlement movement, and settlement houses in particular, \"have been a foundation for social work practice in this country\".\n\nAs higher education opened up to women, young female graduates brought their energy to the settlement movement. The Women's University Settlement (now Blackfriars Settlement) was founded in 1887 \"by women from Girton and Newnham Colleges at Cambridge University, Lady Margaret and Somerville Colleges at Oxford University and Bedford and Royal Holloway Universities\".\n\nBetween 1890 and 1910, more than 12 million European people immigrated to the United States. They came from Ireland, Russia, Italy and other European countries and provided cheap factory labor, a demand that was created with the country's expansion into the west following the Civil War. Many immigrants lived in crowded and disease-ridden tenements, worked long hours, and lived in poverty. Children often worked to help support the family. Jacob Riis wrote \"How the Other Half Lives\" about the lives of immigrants on New York City's Lower East Side to bring greater awareness of the immigrant's living conditions.\n\nThe most famous settlement house in the United States is Chicago's Hull House, founded by Jane Addams and Ellen Gates Starr in 1889 after Addams visited Toynbee Hall within the previous two years. Hull House, though, was not a religious-based organization. It focused on providing education and recreational facilities for European immigrant women and children. Katharine Coman, Vida Scudder, and Katharine Lee Bates were among a group of women who founded Denison House in Boston in 1892. Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, founded in 1894, Friendly Inn Settlement House, founded in 1874, Henry Street Settlement, founded in 1893, Hiram House, founded in 1896, and University Settlement House, founded in 1886 and the oldest in the United States, were, like Hull House, important sites for social reform. United Neighborhood Houses of New York is the federation of 38 settlement houses in New York City. These and other settlement houses inspired the establishment of settlement schools to serve isolated rural communities in Appalachia, such as the Hindman Settlement School in 1902 and the Pine Mountain Settlement School in 1913.\n\nBy 1913, there were 413 settlements in 32 states. By the 1920s, there were almost 500 settlement houses in the country. The settlement house concept was continued by Dorothy Day's Catholic Worker \"hospitality houses\" in the 1930s.\n\nAmerican settlement houses functioned on a philosophy of “scientific philanthropy,” a belief that instead of giving direct relief, charities should give resources to the poor so they could break out of the circle of poverty. American charity workers feared that the deeply entrenched social class system in Europe would develop in the United States.\n\nThe movement also spread to late imperial Russia, as Stanislav Shatsky and Alexander Zelenko set up a network of educational and social institutions in northern Moscow in 1905, naming it \"Setlement\" (\"\", the English word transliterated to Russian). This network of institutions was closed down by the government in 1908, due to alleged socialist activities.\n\nToday, settlements are still community-focused organizations, providing a range of services including early education, youth guidance and crime intervention, senior programs, and specialized programs for young people who have \"aged out\" of the foster care system. Since they are staffed by professional employees and students, they no longer require that employees live alongside those they serve.\n\nSettlement houses influenced urban design and architecture in the 20th century. \nFor example, James Rossant of Conklin + Rossant agreed with Robert E. Simon's social vision and consciously sought to mix economic backgrounds when drawing up the master plan for Reston, Virginia. The New Monastic movement has a similar goal and model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168622", "title": "Social reality", "text": "Social reality\n\nSocial reality is distinct from biological reality or individual cognitive reality, representing as it does a phenomenological level created through social interaction and thereby transcending individual motives and actions. The product of human dialogue, social reality may be considered as consisting of the accepted social tenets of a community, involving thereby relatively stable laws and social representations. Radical constructivism would cautiously describe social reality as the product of uniformities among observers (whether or not including the current observer themselves).\n\nThe problem of social reality has been treated exhaustively by philosophers in the phenomenological tradition, particularly Alfred Schütz, who used the term \"social world\" to designate this distinct level of reality. Within the social world, Schütz distinguished between social reality that could be experienced directly (\"umwelt\") and a social reality beyond the immediate horizon, which could yet be experienced if sought out. In his wake, ethnomethodology explored further the unarticulated structure of our everyday competence and ability with social reality.\n\nPreviously, the subject had been addressed in sociology as well as other disciplines. For example, Émile Durkheim stressed the distinct nature of \"the social kingdom. Here more than anywhere else the idea is the reality\". Herbert Spencer had coined the term \"super-organic\" to distinguish the social level of reality above the biological and psychological.\n\nJohn Searle has used the theory of speech acts to explore the nature of social/institutional reality, so as to describe such aspects of social reality which he instances under the rubrics of \"marriage, property, hiring, firing, war, revolutions, cocktail parties, governments, meetings, unions, parliaments, corporations, laws, restaurants, vacations, lawyers, professors, doctors, medieval knights, and taxes, for example\".\n\nSearle argued that such institutional realities interact with each other in what he called \"systematic relationships (e.g., governments, marriages, corporations, universities, armies, churches)\" to create a multi-layered social reality.\n\nFor Searle, language was the key to the formation of social reality because \"language is precisely designed to be a self-identifying category of institutional facts\"; i.e., a system of publicly and widely accepted symbols which \"persist through time independently of the urges and inclinations of the participants.\"\n\nThere is a debate in social theory about whether social reality exists independently of people's involvement with it, or whether (as in social constructionism) it is only created by the human process of ongoing interaction. \n\nPeter L. Berger argued for a new concern with the basic process of the social construction of reality. Berger stated that the social construction of reality was a process made up of three steps: externalization, objectivation and internalization. In similar fashion, post-Sartrians like R. D. Laing stress that, \"once certain fundamental structures of experience are shared, they come to be experienced as objective entities...they take on the force and character of partial autonomous realities, with their own way of life\". Yet at the same time, Laing insisted that such a socially real grouping \"can be nothing else than the multiplicity of the points of view and actions of its members...even where, through the interiorization of this multiplicity as synthesized by each, this synthesized multiplicity becomes ubiquitous in space and enduring in time\".\n\nThe existence of a social reality independent of individuals or the ecology would seem at odds with the views of perceptual psychology, including those of J. J. Gibson, and those of most ecological economics theories.\n\nScholars such as John Searle argue on the one hand that \"a socially constructed reality presupposes a reality independent of all social constructions\". At the same time, he accepts that social realities are humanly created, and that \"the secret to understanding the continued existence of institutional facts is simply that the individuals directly involved and a sufficient number of members of the relevant communities must continue to recognize and accept the existence of such facts\".\n\nFreud saw a child's induction into social reality as consolidated with the passing of the Oedipus complex and the internalisation of the parents: \"the same figures who continue to operate in the super-ego as the agency we know as conscience...also belong to the real external world. It is from there that they were drawn; their power, behind which lie hidden all the influences of the past and of tradition, was one of the most strongly-felt manifestations of reality\".\n\nLacan clarified the point by stressing that this was \"a highly significant moment in the transfer of powers from the subject to the Other, what I call the Capital Other...the field of the Other – which, strictly speaking, is the Oedipus complex\". Lacan considered that \"the Oedipus complex...superimposes the kingdom of culture on that of nature\", bringing the child into the Symbolic Order.\n\nWithin that order, Lacanians consider that \"institutions, as \"signifying practices\", are much more extensive structures than romantic notions allow and they thus implicate us in ways which narrower definitions cannot recognize...exceed any intersubjective intention or effect\". In similar fashion, Searle asserts that \"institutional power – massive, pervasive, and typically invisible – permeates every nook and cranny of our social lives...the invisible structure of social reality\".\n\nIf one accepts the validity of the idea of social reality, scientifically, it must be amenable to measurement, something which has been explored particularly in relation to trust. \"Trust is...part of a community's social capital, as Francis Fukuyama argues, and has deep historical and cultural roots\".\n\nTheories of the measurement of trust in the sociological community are usually called theories of social capital, to emphasize the connection to economics, and the ability to measure outputs in the same manner.\n\nOne aspect of social reality is the principle of the \"big lie\", which states that an outrageous untruth is easier to convince people of than a less outrageous truth. Many examples from politics and theology (e.g., the claim that the Roman Emperor was in fact a \"god\") demonstrate that this principle was known by effective propagandists from early times, and continues to be applied to this day. The propaganda model of Noam Chomsky and Edward S. Herman supports the \"big lie\" thesis with more specifics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27473233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27473233", "title": "Stewart Clegg", "text": "Stewart Clegg\n\nStewart Clegg (born 1947, Bradford) is a British-born Australian sociologist and organizational theorist and Professor at University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), where he is also Research Director of CMOS (Centre for Management and Organisation Studies).\n\nClegg is an Australian professor in the Organization Studies field and is the author and editor of over forty monographs, textbooks, encyclopaedia, and handbooks including the \"Sage handbook of power\" (2009) and \"Sage directions in organisation studies\" (2009). Stewart's research interests include organisation and management theory and the theory of power, although he has written on other topics including 'food', 'strategy', 'modernity' and 'gossip'. In 2003, a book listed Clegg as one of the top 200 business gurus in the world and this book has been translated into many languages, including Spanish, Korean, Portuguese and French. He sits on Editorial Boards for research journals and is Editor of the AiOS (Advances in Organization Studies) for Benjamins, the European and American publishers. Stewart has also acted as consultant to international newspapers, such as the \"British Sunday Times\" and the \"Australian Financial Review\", for whom he has devised the methodology for their \"Power Lists\", as well as to universities, business firms, and health services.\n\nClegg's \"circuits of power\" theory likens the production and organising of power to an electric circuit board consisting of three distinct interacting circuits: episodic, dispositional, and facilitative. These circuits operate at three levels, two are macro and one is micro. The \"episodic circuit\" is the micro level and is constituted of irregular exercise of power as agents address feelings, communication, conflict, and resistance in day-to-day interrelations. The outcomes of the episodic circuit are both positive and negative. The \"dispositional circuit\" is constituted of macro level rules of practice and socially constructed meanings that inform member relations and legitimate authority. The \"facilitative circuit\" is constituted of macro level technology, environmental contingencies, job design, and networks, which empower or disempower and thus punish or reward, agency in the episodic circuit. All three independent circuits interact at “obligatory passage points” which are channels for empowerment or disempowerment.\n\nTo give a sense of how this model works, Clegg applies it to Crozier’s study of a tobacco factory in France where maintenance workers modified the plant equipment. This action empowered them with exclusive knowledge of the machinery unavailable in the manuals. It also represented taking control of an obligatory passage point, which altered all three circuits of power. The act directly altered the facilitative circuit of technology. The knock-on effect at the dispositional circuit was that it changed what it meant to be a maintenance worker. At the episodic circuit it altered the worker’s power in day-to-day interaction and control of resources and outcomes. The overall impact of taking control of an obligatory passage point was that it allowed the workers to negotiate increased freedoms and wage increases.\n\nBefore moving to UTS, Clegg was Reader at Griffith University (1976–84), Professor at the University of New England (1985–89), Professor at the University of St. Andrews (1990–3), and Foundation Professor at the University of Western Sydney, Macarthur, (1993–96). He has also held positions at Universities in Scotland; Australia, England, France, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Brazil, Canada, Mexico and the United States. He currently also holds Visiting Professorships at European universities and research centres. In 2010 he spent time as a Visiting distinguished Fellow in the Institute of Advanced Study, Durham University, and in 2011 will be the Montezelomo Distinguished Visiting Professor at the University of Cambridge's Judge Institute.\n\nStewart is one of the 2017 honorary doctor recipients at Umeå University. The honorary doctorate was awarded for his scientific output which has far-reaching multidisciplinary content characterized by the ambition to place organization and management theory in a wider social science context all the while setting out from a critical and reflecting view. His research contribution on power mechanisms in organizations is indisputable. Stewart R. Clegg also held an active role as a member of the scientific reference group in the research project funded by the Swedish Riksbank Strategy, Design and Organizing in City Development Processes (Led by Nils Wåhlin at Umeå School of Business and Economics), that greatly dealt with the European Capital of Culture venture in Umeå. Stewart R. Clegg has visited Umeå School of Business and Economics on a number of occasions, the last visit was in February 2017 as an external reviewer for a public defense of a doctoral dissertation on organizational paradoxes (Paradox as the New Normal - Medhanie Gaim).\n\nEGOS Honourary Member\nFellow of the Academy of Management\n\nFellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia\n\nDistinguished Fellow ANZAM\n\nFellow of the British Academy of the Social Sciences\n\nFellow of the Aston Society of Fellows\n\nRecently Clegg has been publishing on a broad front that includes contributions to sociology, organisation studies and strategy. The latest book on strategy is linked here: http://www.uk.sagepub.com/booksProdDesc.nav?prodId=Book234128&#tabview=title. Amongst his most recent interests has been exploration of the theme of liquid modernity and what it means for contemporary organisation and organisations. Presently he is working on two four volume collections of classics in Power and Political Theory and Power and Organization Theory with Mark Haugaard.\n\nBorn in Bradford, England, Clegg migrated to Australia in 1976, after completing his first degree in Behavioural Science (Sociology) at the University of Aston and a Doctorate in Management at Bradford University. Apart from a brief period at the University of St Andrews as Professor of Organization Studies and Head of the Department of Management from 1990–1993 he has been an Australian resident since that time.\n\nRecent books include:\n"}
{"id": "39533958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39533958", "title": "Wearable generator", "text": "Wearable generator\n\nA wearable generator is an article of clothing that contains some form of electrical generation system built in. The concept encompasses a variety of generation systems intended to supply small amounts of power to keep portable electronics in a good state of charge through natural motions of the body.\n\nThere are many great projects related to wearable technology or wearable power generation. One concept, for example, is an article of clothing that has the ability to convert the movements of the wearer into electricity using nano-ion pumps. It is based on nanotechnology and has the ability to generate electricity for the purposes of building muscle mass and improving coordination. Emergency workers like firemen and paramedics could use chest-implanted sensors to create a floor plan of unfamiliar buildings; making a rookie perform his job as efficiently as a veteran. With cameras becoming cheaper and smaller, wearable generators may also serve as a quick method to recharge the batteries on those devices. The environmental burden of disposing used batteries has contributed to e-waste; something that wearable generators may drastically reduce. Enough energy can theoretically be harnessed from a person's body heat to power a smartphone or tablet.\n"}
{"id": "3956800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3956800", "title": "Workcell", "text": "Workcell\n\nA workcell is an arrangement of resources in a manufacturing environment to improve the quality, speed and cost of the process. Workcells are designed to improve these by improving process flow and eliminating waste. They are based on the principles of Lean Manufacturing as described in \"The Machine That Changed the World\" by Womack, Jones and Roos.\n\nClassical manufacturing management approaches dictate that costs be lowered by breaking the process into steps, and ensuring that each of these steps minimizes cost and maximizes efficiency. This discrete approach has resulted in machines placed apart from each other to maximize the efficiency and throughput of each machine. The traditional accounting for machine capitalization is based on the number of parts produced, and this approach reinforces the idea of lowering the cost of each machine (by having them produce as many parts as possible.) Increasing the number of parts (WIP) adds waste in areas such as Inventory and Transportation.\n\nLarge amounts of excess Inventory often now accumulate between the machines in the process for reasons to do with 'unbalanced' line capacities and batch processing. In addition, the parts must now be transported between the machines. An increase in the number of machines involved also will reduce each worker's multi-skilling proficiency (since that would need them to learn how to operate multiple machines, and they too will need to move between those machines.)\n\nLean focuses on optimizing the end-to-end process as a whole. This enables a focus in the process on creating a finished product at the lowest cost (instead of lowering the cost of each step.) A common approach to achieving this is known as the workcell. Machines involved in building a product are placed next to each other to minimize transportation of both parts and people (an L-shaped desk with upper shelves is a good office example, which enables many office equipment to be within the reach of a worker). This will minimize waste in both transportation and in the storage of excess inventory.\n\nAt first glance, lean workcells may appear to be similar to traditional workcells, but they are inherently different. For instance, lean workcells must be designed for minimal wasted motion, which refers to any unnecessary time and effort required to assemble a product. Excessive twists or turns, uncomfortable reaches or pickups, and unnecessary walking all contribute to wasted motion and may put error inducing stress upon the operator. Workcells can often be reconfigured easily to allow the adaptation of the process to fit takt time. This flexibility allows the work content to be adapted as demand or product mix changes.\n\nAnother Lean approach is to aim to have flexible manufacturing through small production lot sizes since this smooths production. Small lot sizes usually increases transportation waste, but this can be eliminated if machines are back-to-back in a workcell.\n\nThe implementation of workcells can reduce costs by an order of magnitude (90%).\n\nIn software development, the core of the workcell is the cross-functional team. This team differs from a more traditional waterfall team:\n"}
{"id": "54020704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54020704", "title": "World Conference on Women, 1985", "text": "World Conference on Women, 1985\n\nThe World Conference on Women, 1985 or the Third World Conference on Women took place between 15 and 26 July 1985 in Nairobi, Kenya, as the end-decade assessment of progress and failure in implementing the goals established by the World Plan of Action from the 1975 inaugural conference on women as modified by the World Programme of Action of the second conference. Of significance during the conference was the end result of the Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women being adopted by consensus, unlike the previous two conferences. The conference marked the first time that lesbian rights were introduced in a UN official meeting and the turning-point for violence against women to emerge from being a hidden topic into one which needed to be addressed. Recognizing that the goals of the Decade for Women had not been met, the conference recommended and the General Assembly approved on-going evaluation of women's achievements and failures through the year 2000.\n\nIn 1975, the United Nations approved the celebration of International Women's Year. As part of the celebrations they held the First World Conference on Women in 1975 in Mexico City. At that meeting, it was proposed that the following decade be proclaimed UN Decade for Women and follow-up meetings to assess progress be held in 1980 and 1985. The General Assembly adopted a World Plan of Action with recommended targets for governments to integrate women's equality, development and participation in peace initiatives. The mid-point meeting was held in Copenhagen, adding sections to the revised Programme of Action devoted to ensuring women equal access to education, employment opportunities, and adequate health care. Both of the previous conferences had struggled with the divide caused by Cold War politics and the needs of the developing world. The geopolitical backdrop entering into the third conference was still contentious with a worldwide debt crisis soaring in Africa and Latin America, protectionist policies under Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan causing widespread uncertainty, stagnation of the USSR, the arms race build up, and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The question would be whether the conference could remain focused on women's issues in the face of Soviet accusations that the United States imperialistic and war mongering tactics were undermining the goals of the Decade for Women and the US concerns that the Eastern Bloc attempts at politicization would derail any real improvement in the unique problems faced by women.\n\nThe 1985 Conference held from 15 and 26 July in Nairobi, Kenya was the final review of the decade and was led by conference president Margaret Kenyatta. Leticia Shahani, widowed mother of three children and a Philippine diplomat served as the Secretary-General and made the crucial suggestion that off-the-record discussion by delegates would decrease the polarity which had plagued the previous conferences and would allow a more open discussion and lead to compromise. There were 157 countries represented with around 1,400 official delegates, including such prominent delegates as: Phoebe Asiyo of Kenya; Ylva Ericsson of Sweden; Saida Hassan of Djibouti; of Bulgaria; Carolyn McAskie an official at the Canadian International Development Agency; Maureen O'Neill head of the Canadian delegation, who was the coordinator for the Minister of Status of Women; Maureen Reagan, daughter of the US president; Yvette Roudy, the French Minister of Women's Rights; Jean Spautz of Luxembourg; Tom Vraalsen of Norway; among others.\n\nAfter opening remarks by Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi welcomed participants, expressing his hope that the conference would prove successful and that the objectives for women would not be obscured by distractions. Opening remarks by Margaret Kenyatta on the history of the conference were followed by the general discussion. The general session discussed that women ought to be able to live securely under conditions which granted them equality and justice, but there was a recognition that time is required to change traditional views and make people aware of needed change. It was noted that though legal equality had significantly improved, the disparity between the legal reality and practice was still broad. It was discussed that political tension and instability, as well as conflict added to curtailment of advancement, as did colonialism, racism, and economic stagnation. The conference noted gains in developed nations for parity of education, but significant gaps in girls education versus boys education in developing nations, which impacted future employment options as well. Though some progress had been made on women's employment, it was noted that wage gaps, higher unemployment for women than men, and child care services all contributed to women's instability. As for health, it was acknowledged that as women were typically the health care providers for their families, that more effort must be made to ensure that women were healthy to allow them to continue to serve their families. Inadequate education and health facilities, combined with high birth rates and customs or laws that allowed women to control their own fertility were continuing issues.\n\nProjects throughout the decade had drawn awareness to the need to advance women's opportunities and statistic gathering had improved to measure their progress or lack of advancement. Violence against women was a prevalent problem as was the insecurity of indigenous women, elderly women, migrant and refugee women and their children, and rural women. Water and food uncertainty needed to be addressed as women in many areas devoted the majority of their time into unpaid labors to maintain their families. Many UN programs had been expanded over the Decade for Women to incorporate women into their development programs, though it was noted that in general women's participation, and even employment in UN agencies though improved was still below targets. Programs directed at agriculture, economics, children, development, housing, health, technology and many others were examined and overall, improvement had been made in the inclusion of women's access. However, it was noted that making provisions for equality was not the same as attaining real equal opportunity. It was agreed that the cultural role in maintaining sexism and sex stereotypes was a complex issue which would involve dedicated effort to change school curricula and transform media messaging to enable women real access to socio-economic, cultural, legal and political parity. It was noted that for the first time, lesbian rights were introduced at an official UN conference by the Dutch delegate, Annelien Kappeyne van de Coppello.\n\nThe first committee, under the chair Cecilia López of Colombia, with vice-chairs, Kulsum Saifullah of Pakistan, Olimpia Solomonescu of Romania, and Laetitia van den Assum of the Netherlands, with Rapporteur Diaroumeye Gany of Niger, discussed the first three chapters of the draft \"Forward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women\". The second committee, under the chair Rosario Manalo of the Philippines, with vice-chairs, Dame Billie Miller of Barbados, Konjit SineGiorgis of Ethiopia, and Eva Szilagyi of Hungary, with Rapporteur Helen Ware of Australia, discussed the remaining chapters of the Strategies. Both committees recommended approving the draft and a discussion with the general session followed with a line by line review of the document. Though both committees evaluated a number of draft resolutions, there was inadequate time for the general session to review the resolutions and no formal action was taken upon them.\n\nDame Nita Barrow of Barbados chaired and organized the Forum, with the assistance of Edith Ballantyne, president of the United Nations' Conference of Non-governmental Organizations (CONGO). It was attended by more than 15,000 people, of which 60% were representatives from non-industrialized nations, and was held at the University of Nairobi. Unlike the facilities in Copenhagen, in Kenya, a kindergarten was set up for delegates' children. A Peace Tent was set up on the lawn of the university and hosted sessions about conflict and its impact of war on women. Among prominent attendees were: Charlotte Bunch, a US lesbian activist ; Betty Friedan, founder of the National Organization for Women (NOW); Eddah Gachukia head of the Kenyan NGO committee; and others.\n\nIn addition to the basic themes of the official session, the Forum was asked to address issues concerning women who were poor, elderly, migrant or refugees, youth and address women in media. Round table discussions, workshops and two plenary sessions were established. The array of topics discussed in formal and impromptu meetings was vast, including such topics as childcare; consumer education; credit; family planning; female genital mutilation; the growth of women's studies; legal rights; literacy; media portrayals of women; motherhood and development programs for families; political prisoners; prostitution; systemic discrimination against women; violence; women and development; women and religion; women and technology; as well as lesbian workshops and many other topics in some 1200 workshops scheduled throughout the duration of the conference. The lesbian workshops were the \"first public discussion of lesbianism in Kenya\" and resulted in a lesbian press conference in which it was acknowledged that lesbianism wasn't a Westernized concept, but instead effected women's rights throughout the globe. It also resulted in a proposal from one of the Dutch representatives for lesbian rights to be addressed in the official conference documents. In a workshop on development, Helen Safa brought forward the idea that \"Gender and Development\" (GAD) should replace the former strategy \"Women in Development\" (WID) used by the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women (CSW). This mirrored the NGO, Development Alternatives with Women for a New Era (DAWN)'s belief that WID simply tried to insert women into existing systems without reducing or changing their paternal nature. They recommended that GAD, a strategic long-term planning method, become the new standard, which focused on designing systems specifically related to women and their growth.\n\nIn addition to the workshops, women were invited to participate in a number of cultural events like the Nairobi Film Forum which showed films and videos by and about women and gave workshops; exhibitions of art and photography; folklore workshops; concerts; martial arts classes; field trips to local villages. Because of the favorable climate conditions, women were able to gather in the open-air for a variety of both scheduled and unscheduled functions to build networks with other participants. The Forum after 1985 shifted in a way that reflected the divide between progressivism versus conservatism, as opposed to the polarized capitalist-socialist divide which had split prior conferences. It was recognized by the participants that global problems were women's issues, but that within their governmental systems, there was either a desire to promote or curtail change. A fundamental shift occurred which recognized that no matter the system, women were subordinate and that promoting a world view from women's perspectives allowed them to transcend their differences and focus on the commonalities they shared. For example, aboriginal women recognized that where ever they were from, they battled for indigenous land rights; Arab and Israeli women discussed the need for peace; women lawyers whether from Islamic countries in South Asia or Catholic countries in Latin America recognized the struggle for women's rights under patriarchal religious systems.\n\nForward-looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women was adopted by consensus because of a strategy developed which allowed delegates to express reservations on the basis of individual paragraphs, rather than of the document as a whole. Because of stronger transnational relationships had been forged by the previous two conferences increased understanding by governments of the needs of their women constituents, a willingness of donors to help women integrate into development and increased effectiveness of NGOs in their activism, the list of topics covered in the Strategies was more extensive, including topics such as: agriculture, communications, constitutional and legal issues, education, employment, energy needs, environmental and water concerns, food security, health, housing, science and technology, social services, social and political equality as well as increased participation. The major themes development, equality, and peace were retained as were focuses on racism and refugees. The document endorsed new strategies moving to the year 2000 and replaced the words Apartheid and Zionism with the more general term racism, to maintain the focus on women rather than polarizing issues.\n\nOut of the conference forum, several women's groups emerged that would become influential: Asian-Pacific Forum on Women, Law and Development (APWLD), Comité de América Latina y El Caribe para la Defensa de los Derechos de la Mujer (CLADEM), Women in Law and Development in Africa (WILDAF), and the Tanzania Media Women's Association. These were indicative of the types of exponential growth in NGOs dealing with women and their issues which were founded after the conference ended. Many of the organizations were information-sharing groups which pooled their resources and strategies to create innovative solutions. These networks, shifted the flow of activism and scholarship from the global North toward the Southern hemispheres and from top-down social structures to those which forge coalitions across cultural, racial and social boundaries. The conference also marked a turning point in the silence regarding violence against women, which would ultimately lead to the passage of the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women in 1993. Since the objectives of the Decade for Women had not achieved the goals set out in 1975, the United Nations General Assembly made a decision after Nairobi to conduct world surveys on women every five years in a continuing effort to follow-up on the implementation of the Strategies for women. One of the most important outcomes was moving women out of obscurity and establishing specific mechanisms for measuring women's progress.\n\n"}
{"id": "12025676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12025676", "title": "X-bar chart", "text": "X-bar chart\n\nIn industrial statistics, the X-bar chart is a type of Shewhart control chart that is used to monitor the arithmetic means of successive samples of constant size, n. This type of control chart is used for characteristics that can be measured on a continuous scale, such as weight, temperature, thickness etc. For example, one might take a sample of 5 shafts from production every hour, measure the diameter of each, and then plot, for each sample, the average of the five diameter values on the chart.\n\nFor the purposes of control limit calculation, the sample means are assumed to be normally distributed, an assumption justified by the Central Limit Theorem.\n\nThe X-bar chart is always used in conjunction with a variation chart such as the formula_1 and R chart or formula_1 and s chart. The R-chart shows sample ranges (difference between the largest and the smallest values in the sample), while the s-chart shows the samples' standard deviation. The R-chart was preferred in times when calculations were performed manually, as the range is far easier to calculate than the standard deviation; with the advent of computers, ease of calculation ceased to be an issue, and the s-chart is preferred these days, as it is statistically more meaningful and efficient. Depending on the type of variation chart used, the average sample range or the average sample standard deviation is used to derive the X-bar chart's control limits. \n"}
{"id": "46900918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46900918", "title": "Xulvi-Brunet - Sokolov algorithm", "text": "Xulvi-Brunet - Sokolov algorithm\n\nXulvi-Brunet and Sokolov’s algorithm generates networks with chosen degree correlations. This method is based on link rewiring, in which the desired degree is governed by parameter ρ. By varying this single parameter it is possible to generate networks from random (when ρ = 0) to perfectly assortative or disassortative (when ρ = 1). This algorithm allows to keep network’s degree distribution unchanged when changing the value of ρ.\n\nIn assortative networks, well-connected nodes are likely to be connected to other highly connected nodes. Social networks are examples of assortative networks. This means that an assortative network has the property that almost all nodes with the same degree are linked only between themselves.\n\nThe Xulvi-Brunet - Sokolov algorithm for this type of networks is the following. \nIn a given network, two links connecting four different nodes are chosen randomly. These nodes are ordered by their degrees. Then, with probability ρ, the links are randomly rewired in such a way that one link connects the two nodes with the smaller degrees and the other connects the two nodes with the larger degrees. If one or both of these links already existed in the network, the step is discarded and is repeated again. Thus, there will be no self-connected nodes or multiple links connecting the same two nodes. Different degrees of assortativity of a network can be achieved by changing the parameter ρ. \nAssortative networks are characterized by highly connected groups of nodes with similar degree. As assortativity grows,the average path length and clustering coefficient increase.\n\nIn disassortative networks, highly connected nodes tend to connect to less-well-connected nodes with larger probability than in uncorrelated networks. Examples of such networks include biological networks.\nThe Xulvi-Brunet and Sokolov’s algorithm for this type of networks is similar to the one for assortative networks with one minor change. As before, two links of four nodes are randomly chose and the nodes are ordered with respect to their degrees. However, in this case, the links are rewired (with probability p) such that one link connects the highest connected node with the node with the lowest degree and the other link connects the two remaining nodes randomly with probability 1 – ρ. Similarly, if the new links already existed, the previous step is repeated. This algorithm does not change the degree of nodes and thus the degree distribution of the network.\n"}
