{"id": "30837875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30837875", "title": "'Ole language", "text": "'Ole language\n\nOle, also called Olekha or Black Mountain Monpa, is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken by about 1,000 people in the Black Mountains of Wangdue Phodrang and Trongsa Districts in western Bhutan. The term 'Ole refers to a clan of speakers.\n\nAccording to the \"Ethnologue\", Olekha is spoken in the following locations of Bhutan.\n\nDialects are separated by the Black Mountains.\n\nBlack Mountain Monpa is spoken in at least 6 villages. The variety spoken in Rukha village, south-central Wangdi is known as ’Olekha. Out of a population of 100-150 people (about 15 households) in Rukha village, there is only one elderly female fluent speaker and two semi-fluent speakers of ’Olekha.\n\nGeorge van Driem (1992) reports a Western dialect (spoken in Rukha and Reti villages) and Eastern dialect (spoken in Cungseng village).\n\n'Ole was unknown beyond its immediate area until 1990, and is now highly endangered, and was originally assumed to be East Bodish. George van Driem described 'Ole as a remnant of the primordial population of the Black Mountains before the southward expansion of the ancient East Bodish tribes.\n\nMore recently, Gwendolyn Hyslop (2016), agreeing with van Driem, has suggested that 'Ole is an isolated Sino-Tibetan language heavily influenced by East Bodish. Because of its small amount of cognates with East Bodish languages, Blench and Post provisionally treat 'Ole as an isolate.\n\nThe distantly related Tshangla language of eastern Bhutan, also called \"Monpa\" and predating Dzongkha, also belongs to the Sino-Tibetan languages. Although 'Ole is most closely related to the Bumthang language, both being East Bodish languages, Tshangla and related languages form a sister branch not to the East Bodish group, but to its parent Bodish branch. Thus the ambiguous term \"Monpa\" risks separating languages that should be grouped together, while grouping languages together that are quite separate.\n\nGerber (2018) notes that Black Mountain Mönpa has had extensive contact with Gongduk before the arrival of East Bodish languages in Bhutan. The following comparative vocabulary table from Gerber (2018: 13-16) compares Gongduk, Black Mountain Mönpa, and Bjokapakha, which is a divergent Tshangla variety.\n\nHyslop (2016) notes that Olekha has borrowed heavily from East Bodish and Tibetic languages, but also has a layer of native vocabulary items. Numerals are mostly borrowed from East Bodish languages, while body parts and nature words are borrowed from both Tibetic and East Bodish languages. Hyslop (2016) lists the following Olekha words of clearly indigenous (non-borrowed) origin.\n\nThe pronouns and lexical items for all foraged plants are also of indigenous origin. Additionally, the central vowel /ɤ/ and voiced uvular fricative /ʁ/ are only found in non-borrowed words.\n\nWords whose origin is not certain (i.e., may or may not be borrowed) are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34155918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34155918", "title": "2011 Haimen protest", "text": "2011 Haimen protest\n\nThe 2011 Haimen protest of December 2011 occurred in the Chinese town of Haimen, Guangdong province. The protests, which drew thousands of participants, were met with detentions and tear gassing by authorities. \n\nProtests were ignited over plans to expand a coal-fired power plant in the town—a plan that residents opposed, arguing that existing coal-fired plants had caused environmental and health damage. Demonstrations began on Tuesday, 20 December when thousands of residents barricaded a freeway and surrounded government offices in an attempt to block the project. \n\nAccording to AFP, the riot police fired tear gas into the crowd and beat protesters with riot sticks. Late on 20 December, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said that five residents had been detained on vandalism charged, and published a declaration from the Shantou city council announcing that the \"Shantou deputy and municipality already decided to stop the project. Unconfirmed reports of two deaths circulated online following the first day of protests, though authorities denied these reports.\n\nTensions cooled by 23 December, after Communist Party officials declared that the plant expansion plans would be temporarily suspended, and authorities agreed to release detained protesters. \n\nAlthough the protests in Haimen were unrelated to demonstrations in nearby Wukan, Haimen residents told Reuters that they had followed developments in Wukan closely, regarding it as a good model of how citizens might negotiate with authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "43722217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43722217", "title": "2012–15 unrest in Romania", "text": "2012–15 unrest in Romania\n\nThe 2012–15 unrest in Romania refers to a prolonged period of civil unrest and political scandals in Romania, which took magnitude after the second half of the 2000s. The wave of civil demonstrations started in January 2012, once with the introduction of a new health reform legislation. The protests were fueled by the austerity measures applied in May 2010, but also by the unpopularity of Băsescu-backed Boc government. The demonstrations were characterized by widespread rioting and acts of vandalism. The political situation precipitated, so Prime Minister Emil Boc decided to step down on 6 February 2012.\n\nIn the first six months of the year, three governments have been changed. The summer of 2012 was marked by a large-scale political crisis, fed by accusations of plagiarism to PSD-backed Prime Minister Victor Ponta and culminating with the suspension of President Traian Băsescu. Although the presidential impeachment referendum showed that over 80% of the voters wanted his dismissal, the referendum was invalidated by the Constitutional Court due to presence below 50% at polls. During this period, Romania was warned by Western powers about the state of democracy, inasmuch as the dismissal of the presidents of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies was made in a shady manner, and prominent figures of PSD, including Vice-President Liviu Dragnea, were accused of vote rigging in the referendum.\n\nAfter sweeping victory in legislative election on 9 December 2012, Victor Ponta – supported by the Social Liberal Union – was named Prime Minister of Romania. His mandate was marked by corruption scandals and street protests. The demonstrations had various causes, among them the tax hikes, the exploitation of shale gas through hydraulic fracturing and the Roșia Montană Project. Hundreds of thousands of people, including doctors, teachers, students and laborers, took to the street to shout their dissatisfaction regarding his policies. Employees in transport and health system triggered several strikes in this period. Although mainly peaceful, the protests degenerated in some cases in clashes between demonstrators and law enforcers. Ponta Government was accused by national and international organizations of excessive use of force in the Revolt of Pungești. Ethnic Hungarians started a series of protests for the autonomy of Szeklerland, while the unionist movements (see \"Action 2012\") demanded the unification of Romania and Moldova, both in Romania and over the Prut.\n\nIn the winter of 2014, the ruling alliance collapsed, after internal tensions between PSD and PNL. The National Liberal Party left the alliance and merged with the Democratic Liberal Party to form the largest right-wing party in Romania in the post-revolutionary period. In the summer of the same year, Victor Ponta from PSD and Klaus Iohannis from PNL launched their candidatures for the presidential election. To everyone's surprise, ethnic German Klaus Iohannis won the election. Ponta's failure was mainly due to irregularities concerning the voting process in diaspora and numerous corruption scandals involving figures from the party he leads. During the electoral campaign, people protested against Victor Ponta and members of his government, inasmuch as thousands of Romanian citizens in diaspora were prevented from exercising their right to vote due to bad organization of the election process.\n\nRomania is the country with the highest poverty levels in the European Union. More than 30% of the population lives on less than $5 per day. In a report conducted by the Presidential Commission for the Analysis of Social and Demographic Risks is specified that there are visible discrepancies between social strata, privileged groups benefiting of higher wages and pensions in comparison with the rest of the population. Bankruptcy of many companies thickens the unemployment rate, in July 2013 reaching the value of 7.6%, highest since onset of the economic crisis in 2010. Other companies, including state companies – Romanian Post, Romanian Railways, are on the verge of bankruptcy, being forced to make cutbacks.\n\nAfter application of drastic austerity measures in 2010, the Romanian economy recovered. Thus, in 2013, Romania recorded the highest economic growth in the EU. Despite this growth, the standard of living is decreasing, many Romanians being unable to endure everyday expenses. Poor working conditions, mass layoffs and tax hikes displease the population that is filling the squares of main cities to shout their grievances.\n\nOver the past 25 years, Romania has experienced a complex process of democratization with moments of crisis, economic stagnation, radical nationalism and extreme polarization. Despite Romania's admission into NATO in 2004, and into the European Union in 2007, the political situation remained unstable, with recurrent institutional clashes between the President, Prime Minister and Parliament, such as in 2007 and 2012 and tough austerity measures that fuelled social tensions.\n\nThese were the first events of the two-year civil unrest. They were triggered by the introduction of a new health reform legislation and worsening standard of life. President Traian Băsescu's popularity collapsed mainly after imposing austerity measures in 2010, year when Romania also confronted with short living but large street demonstrations. The attempted privatization of SMURD and the denigration by Traian Băsescu of Raed Arafat, its founder, was vehemently criticized by people on the streets.\nThe protests started with a 3,000-large demonstration in Târgu Mureș on 12 January, as a sign of solidarity with Raed Arafat. In the following weeks, protests spread to other sixty Romanian cities and dozens of cities in the Romanian diaspora. In Bucharest, the largest protest took place on 19 January, when up to 20,000 people expressed their disagreements with Băsescu regime. Several days, Bucharest faced widespread rioting and acts of vandalism. Thousands of policemen and gendarmes were deployed on the streets to confront angry demonstrators that stoned the vehicles of the law enforcers, vandalized shops and burned cars. Riot police used tear gas and flares to repel demonstrators who blocked traffic in the center of Bucharest. According to the Gendarmerie, destructions were caused by football ultras infiltrated among peaceful demonstrators. During these days of turmoil, several protesters entered the Romanian Television headquarters to blame the broadcaster for censorship. Official figures indicated over 60 injuries during clashes between police and protesters, while up to 283 arrests were made. Several journalists were injured while transmitting live the events. South East Europe Media Organisation, a NGO that has its headquarters in Vienna, expressed concern about the level of violence against reporters who covered the protests.\n\nOn the morning of 6 February 2012, Prime Minister Emil Boc announced his resignation, in an attempt \"to ease the social situation\". During weeks of protests, Băsescu stated nothing and didn't appear in public. Emil Boc was replaced by Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu, former Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service.\n\nSoon after government led by Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu fell in no confidence vote, Victor Ponta took in office. Ponta is an ardent Băsescu's opponent. In June 2012, they were the protagonists of a major political crisis, starting with conflicting views on Romania's representative to the European Council reunion of 28 June and escalating with the suspension of President Traian Băsescu. In the same period, Prime Minister Victor Ponta was accused of plagiarism in his doctoral thesis. These accusations fed the political instability.\nOn 3 July, the Romanian Parliament, at the proposal of majority represented by Social Liberal Union, voted the dismissal of President of the Senate and President of the Chamber of Deputies. Through an Emergency Ordinance, the government restricted the attributions of the Constitutional Court, restoring them to the 2010 status. Likewise, USL leaders Victor Ponta and Crin Antonescu started procedures to dismiss President Traian Băsescu. These measures irritated the international politicians which expressed concerns over the state of democracy and the rule of law in Romania. On 6 July, Băsescu was suspended after the impeachment motion filed by the ruling coalition passed the Parliament's vote. The motion passed with 256 votes, 39 more than the minimum required. USL leaders argued their action by saying that President Traian Băsescu has breached the Constitution and overstepped his authority.\n\nOn 9 July, the Constitutional Court ascertained President Băsescu's suspension and confirmed Crin Antonescu as Interim President. Therewith, Constitutional Court rejected complaints formulated by Vasile Blaga and Roberta Anastase, supported by PDL, regarding removal from office of President of the Senate and President of the Chamber of Deputies. On 20 July, USL laid down, at the Office of the High Court of Cassation and Justice, a penal complaint against suspended President Traian Băsescu and other 14 people, for \"spreading false information, for defamation of the country and the nation and for endangering safety of the national economy and currency stability\", given that Băsescu cataloged the events as a \"coup d'état\". In the following days, Crin Antonescu cut Băsescu's special phone line, after the Senate's Defence Committee found out that the Special Telecommunication Agency illegally deployed the secret phone line at Băsescu's office. Băsescu accused USL of dismantling all national security institutions and cataloged them as \"a gang of traitors\".\n\nThe presidential impeachment referendum took place on 29 July. On 21 August, the Constitutional Court decided that the referendum is invalid due to presence under 50%. However, 87.52% of those present in the referendum voted for Băsescu's impeachment. PDL boycotted the referendum, while the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán exhorted ethnic Hungarians in Romania to stay away from the polls, fact that explains the low turnout in Hungarian majority counties of Harghita and Covasna. There were rumors regarding vote rigging. In October 2013, Deputy Prime Minister Liviu Dragnea and 74 others were accused of falsifying data to sway the vote's outcome. On 22 April 2016, Liviu Dragnea was sentenced to two years probation.\n\nThe summer of 2012 in Romania was marked not only by political instability, but by civil unrest. In early July, on the background of plagiarism scandal, demonstrations took place in several locations in Bucharest. The demonstrations, entitled suggestively the \"Protest of inverted commas\" (), were attended by hundreds of people, among them former Prime Minister Ungureanu, aiming Victor Ponta's resignation.\n\nIn the pre-referendum period, several demonstrations in support of President Traian Băsescu took place throughout the country. In Arad and Timișoara, clashes between pro- and anti-Băsescu demonstrators erupted, but were quickly dispersed by gendarmes. On 6 July, 2,000 people gathered at a rally in Bucharest to support President Băsescu. The rally was attended by prominent members of PDL and degenerated towards evening in altercations with anti-Băsescu demonstrators that infiltrated among supporters of the president.\nMajor political rallies were organized by USL in the most important cities in the country, within the campaign to dismiss the suspended president: Bucharest (50,000 participants, 26 July), Craiova (18,000 participants, 20 July), Iași (15,000 participants, 22 July), Oradea (8,000 participants, 24 July), Pitești (7,000 participants, 25 July), Brașov (5,000 participants, 17 July), Alexandria (1,500 participants, 25 July) and Râmnicu Vâlcea (700 participants, 27 July). On the other side, large pro-Băsescu meetings were organized in several Romanian cities, at different dates, to avoid potential conflicts between demonstrators: Bucharest (15,000 participants), Iași (10,000 participants), Cluj-Napoca (10,000 participants), Slatina (100 participants).\n\nInvalidation of the referendum infuriated Băsescu's opposers that gathered in their thousands in front of the Bucharest National Theatre. Protesters shouted messages against CCR decision to invalidate the referendum and asked Traian Băsescu to resign. Likewise, many people have come up with anti-US placards, considering that Băsescu was reinstated at Americans desire. Towards evening things got out of control, people breached fences and entered on the carriageway, blocking traffic. Next day, the Gendarmerie fined or queried 106 people for disturbing public peace and destruction of public domain.\n\nWorsening working conditions, mass layoffs and poor payroll have taken to the streets thousands of employees even in the early days of 2013. Probably the most dramatic and publicized case is Oltchim Râmnicu Vâlcea, one of the largest chemical companies in Romania. The company recorded losses of €90.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, thus ending the year with a negative result of 270 million lei. The company's leadership was forced to reduce expenses and liabilities, even without announcing employees. The deplorable situation of the company triggered mass unrest, also fueled by several failed attempts to privatize the plant. Protests took place throughout the year, one of the largest being organized on 28 March, when nearly 1,500 employees refused to start work and blocked the traffic on national road DN64. The unrest escalated with the storming of company's headquarters on 4 July, while in the subsequent months, some employees launched a hunger strike.\n\nThe deplorable situation of the national railway company took to the streets thousands of employees under the threat of job loss or salary reduction. In 2013 and 2014, the company was shaken by two major strikes. On 16 January 2013, thousands of employees triggered a spontaneous strike, 138 trains being blocked for several hours in major railway stations in the country, including Bucharest, Craiova, Cluj-Napoca, Iași, Galați and Constanța. The Minister of Transport Relu Fenechiu said that he will make an analysis and those responsible will pay.\n\nA larger strike took place on 23 April 2014, when, for two hours, rail traffic was paralyzed in major train stations in the country. According to syndicalists, the protest took place after failed negotiations on a new collective agreement. About 400 passenger trains and 200 freight trains stood in the stations or on route.\n\nProtests and strikes were launched by teachers and students throughout the year, centered mainly on Ponta's poor policies regarding education. They claim that the education system is underfunded and require allocation of at least 6% of GDP to education. High school students also protested for bad settlement of commuting subscriptions.\n\nOn 21 May, over 2,000 students in Covasna County went on Japanese strike, inasmuch as the Ministry of Education hasn't settled, since October 2012, money for commuting subscriptions. Those 2,000 students that went on Japanese strike, wearing white banderoles on arm, are from 15 high schools in the cities of Sfântu Gheorghe, Târgu Secuiesc, Covasna and Baraolt. Furthermore, students in Covasna organized a protest meeting. The Ministry of Education has accumulated, from October to March, a debt of more than 1.6 million lei for settlement of students commuting subscriptions in Covasna County. Likewise, around 150 students from high schools throughout the Mureș County went on indefinitely Japanese strike, in solidarity with the colleagues which were not settled money for commuting subscriptions. The same measure of protest was adopted by hundreds of students in Constanța County, according to that were violated the rights under the Education Act through art. 84 (3). In Cluj County, Ministry of Education didn't settle any money for seven months. Accumulated debts amount to more than 3.5 million lei, 3,100 commuter students being affected by this situation.\n\nOn 13 November, thousands of students from 11 universities in Bucharest, Timișoara, Cluj-Napoca, Iași, Constanța, Galați, Baia Mare, Sibiu, Suceava, Oradea and Alba Iulia took to the streets to protest the underfunding of the education system. In solidarity with the students, pupils from dozens of schools and high schools went on Japanese strike. Students chanted slogans against the Government and demanded allocation of 6% of GDP for education: „We want a school for all, not a Government of mobsters”, „Finance the education or leave the Government”. According to the Romanian press, the event is one of the largest student movements in recent years.\n\nTeachers' wages is a problem wherewith the education system confronts. In Romania, a teacher is paid 9.3 lei net (2.09 euros) per hour, compared to other European countries, where wages are up to 40 times higher.\n\nIn May 2015, starting from Timișoara, Galați and Constanța, students have occupied university amphitheatres, protesting \"the disaster in academic environment and the lack of respect with which students were treated in decisions regarding the higher education system\". Triggered by the National Alliance of Student Organizations in Romania, After failed negotiations with the Minister of Education Sorin Cîmpeanu, protests spread to other universities in Bucharest, Iași, Cluj-Napoca, Reșița, Oradea and Suceava. Students are also dissatisfied with university tuition fees, invoking a university dropout rate of 40%. The events are known in Romanian press as Occupy University.\n\nSituation in hospitals, poor payroll and lack of staff pushed the doctors to launch an ample program of protests aimed to alarm the minister Eugen Nicolăescu over collapse of Romanian health system. In September were held for two weeks picketings in front of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance. The protests are the largest since 1998 and are known in local media as \"Protest of white robes\" ().\n\nOn 2 November, nearly 7,000 doctors, nurses and dentists marched on Victory Avenue, towards the Palace of the Parliament. The manifestation, called \"March of Silence\" (), was joined by medical staff across the country. Demonstrators leaned against the wall of the Palace of the Parliament a cross and nearly 20 wreaths, thus suggesting the \"death of health\" in Romania.\n\nAfter three rounds of failed negotiations with the Minister of Health, on 25 November, more than 130,000 health professionals from across the country have triggered a warning strike between 8 and 10 o'clock. During this time, polyclinics were closed, and hospitals operated only in medical emergencies. Marius Sepi, first vice-president of Sanitas Federation, stated that the strike was affected by some hospital managers that threatened the protesters. Even the Minister of Health, Eugen Nicolăescu, considered the strike illegal and said he didn't know if it's possible to increase wages.\n\nDespite major changes on Romanian political scene in early 2014, the new health minister could not cope with the demands of health professionals. In this regard, doctors picketed between 23 June and 4 July the headquarters of Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour and Ministry of Public Finance.\n\nThere was a rough dispute between President Băsescu and Premier Ponta on fuel price rise by 7 cents, measure adopted since 1 April 2014. The head of state asked Victor Ponta to waive the fee he deems an unnecessary and discriminatory tax burden. Likewise, Traian Băsescu is convinced that the measure will lead to tax evasion. The measure was also criticized by opposition. Thus, on 15 March, between 8,000 and 10,000 people, members or supporters of the People's Movement Party, protested in Bucharest's George Enescu Square against Ponta's poor economic policies and wave of taxes that will be introduced once with 1 April. Romania figures among the countries with the most expensive gasoline in the world, at $7.38 per gallon (€1.41 per litre).\n\nProtests related to fuel overtaxing also took place a few months before the implementation of this measure. On 9 December 2013, over 86,000 lorry drivers across the country went on strike and blocked for several hours the traffic on ring roads of major cities.\n\nThe Roșia Montană Project, a mining project aimed to bring to the surface 350 tonnes of gold and 1,500 tonnes of silver, met a significant resistance from environmental groups in Romania and neighbouring countries. Among the dissatisfactions of environmentalists are the pollution by cyanidation and the extremely low percentage of which Romania will benefit from this exploitation. A concern was the fact that the legislation would give the Roșia Montană Gold Corporation the right to give compulsory purchase orders to the residents of Roșia Montană who refused to sell their houses and lands. The draft law also sets time limits for the state authorities to grant all permits, regardless of potential infringements of national legislation or of court rulings.\nThe wave of protests started on 1 September 2013 with a national mobilization and continued until late-December. The protests attracted up to 200,000 demonstrators in 50 Romanian cities and 30 cities in Romanian diaspora. Largest demonstrations were organized in Bucharest (20,000 people), Cluj-Napoca (10,000 people), Câmpeni (4,000 people), Iași (1,500 people) and Brașov (900 people). In Bucharest, Timișoara and Iași, protesters created \"tent cities\", paralyzing traffic on major arteries of circulation. The protests, dubbed by international media the \"Romanian Autumn\", have taken many forms: human chains around the Palace of the Parliament, flash mobs, roadblocks and scuffles with police. Although the protests were mainly peaceful, there were reports of serious incidents. On 13 September, Minister of Culture Daniel Barbu was attacked with tomatoes in Cluj-Napoca. In November, protesters in Bucharest, Brașov and Cluj-Napoca were aggressed and sprayed with irritant substances by gendarmes, in the capital 62 people being fined for blocking traffic. Likewise, on 9 December, about 50 Greenpeace activists from 10 countries who were protesting in the courtyard of the Parliament building, were seized by gendarmes and led to the police stations. Protesters also accused the poor coverage of the protests by Romanian media.\n\nThere were also protests in support of the mining project. Organized only in the exploitation area, the largest protest attracted up to 5,000 locals and 33 miners blocked underground, who were fighting for the jobs promised by Roșia Montană Gold Corporation, inasmuch as the unemployment rate in the area is very high. In an attempt to defuse the tense situation of Roșia Montană, Prime Minister Victor Ponta descended into the underground to discuss with miners. However, during massive protests against Roșia Montană Project, Ponta – main target of protests – didn't conduct any conversation with the representatives of the protesters.\n\nThe Chamber of Deputies passed, on 10 December 2013, a draft law containing multiple amendments to the Penal Code, which would grant \"super-immunity\" to MPs and the president, as they would be taken out of the \"public servant\" category stipulated in the Code. Moreover, the amendments would protect politicians from the investigation of bodies of anti-corruption struggle (National Anticorruption Directorate, National Integrity Agency) and would remove the conflict of interest from the list of misdemeanors. After the Romanian Parliament passed the amendments, media outlets marked the day as the \"Black Tuesday\" of Romanian democracy.\n\nOn 14 December, nearly 1,500 people attended a meeting organized by People's Movement Party, in sign of protest against new Penal Code. The next day, a similar protest took place in Bucharest and was attended by more than 2,000 people. Unlike the previous, this was more violent. A large number of police forces were deployed on the spot. They formed cordons to prevent protesters moving towards the Government headquarters. Angry crowd broke the cordons, and gendarmes used tear gas to avoid blocking traffic. After the altercations, four protesters were seized by gendarmes and taken to the police station. They were questioned and fined for disturbing public peace and order. One of the protesters was transported to the Floreasca Hospital with a wound to the head. On 21 December, more than 5,000 people attended a protest in Bucharest against all political classes and new Penal Code. The protest was held under the slogan \"21–22 we want the democracy back\" (). Mobilized on social networks, protesters demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Victor Ponta and President Traian Băsescu, but also the dissolution of Parliament. Throughout the protest, demonstrators lit candles in memory of victims of the 1989 Revolution. There were deployed hundreds of gendarmes, equipped for intervention, with batons and tear gas guns, vans and water cannons. Protesters threw stones and bottles at vehicles of the Gendarmerie and accused the gendarmes of defending thievery.\n\nAmendments to the Penal Code were strongly contested by President Traian Băsescu, who said that he will return to the Parliament the law through which the president and MPs are removed from the category of civil servants. The Head of State said that the amendments to the Penal Code adopted by the Chamber are \"dramatic\" and \"tear down ten years of work and activity of anticorruption institutions\" such as National Anticorruption Directorate (DNA) or National Integrity Agency (ANI). The President mentioned in a TV show about the dissolution of Parliament, invoking the breach of the Copenhagen criteria through these amendments to the Penal Code.\n\nThe National Anticorruption Directorate showed that, following the changes to the Penal Code, lawmakers indicted for corruption or similar to that misdemeanor might be acquitted, and those detained through final sentence might be set free. President of the National Integrity Agency, Horia Georgescu, also said that, following the changes, \"will be created a super-immunity\", and \"the history of ANI cases will be thrown up for 25 MPs\".\n\nThe Superior Council of Magistracy has criticized changes to the Penal Code, emphasizing that it hadn't receive them for approval, as required by law. Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies said in a statement that it had no obligation to seek the opinion of SCM.\n\nThe Democratic Liberal Party submitted, on 12 December, to the Constitutional Court, two notices about the changes adopted Tuesday by the Chamber of Deputies to the Penal Code, one aimed at defining civil servant and the other one referring to the conflict of interest. Likewise, the High Court of Cassation and Justice notified the Constitutional Court on the same subject. The concerns expressed by about 50 PDL lawmakers were confirmed by the Constitutional Court of Romania. So, on 15 January 2014, the members of the Constitutional Court unanimously decided that the amendments to the Penal Code are unconstitutional. CCR judges decided that the article which removes the officials from the category of public servants breaches several articles of the Constitution concerning the rule of law, the equal rights of citizens and the Romanian State's obligation to fulfill in good faith its obligations in international treaties.\n\nIn a press conference, PSD deputy Eugen Nicolicea rejected accusations on new Penal Code, saying that press masked the truth.\n\n\nIn mid-February 2014, the Romanian government entered into deadlock after PNL, constituent party of the government, announced the reshuffling of four ministers. Victor Ponta repeatedly refused Klaus Iohannis' proposal as Deputy Premier and Minister of Interior, fact that inflamed the spirits inside PNL. Thus, on 25 February, PNL decided in an overwhelming majority to leave the ruling coalition. A day later, all PNL ministers resigned.\n\nA major political conflict also erupted in August, when the Parliament adopted an emergency ordinance allowing local authorities to switch between political parties without sanctions. The event, marked in Romanian press as \"Black Thursday\" – in analogy with \"Black Tuesday\", was criticized by embassies of United States and United Kingdom, but especially by opposition that accuses Victor Ponta of trying to defraud presidential election in November, reason for that the Liberal Christian Alliance, supported by the People's Movement Party, threatens the government with a motion of censure. According to those who initiated this law, the party switching is a solution to institutional stalemate after breakage of the USL in February. However, the GEO was declared by CCR unconstitutional.\n\nKnown in Romanian press as \"War of the palaces\" () was a prolonged conflict between President Traian Băsescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta, the representatives of Cotroceni Palace and Victoria Palace, respectively. In April 2014, conflict between the two has deepened and escalated to threats of imprisonment from both of them. President Traian Băsescu said that if Victor Ponta will try to interfere in the justice risks ending up in the hands of prosecutors, who will not tolerate that. He also stated that Ponta is deeply corrupt, and his election as president would be a great drama for Romania. In reply, Victor Ponta stated: „(...) I am absolutely convinced that Traian Băsescu will go to jail. I, who know that I have always respected the law, I have no fear”.\n\nIn a TV show, President Traian Băsescu reacted to declarations of PSD senator, Gabriela Firea, stating: „She better stays in her seat and would handle what happens on the estate of her husband. Because she could no longer find him at home, if she is not careful. I understand that in his parish enough bad things happen”. Victor Ponta quickly reacted to these statements by drawing up a penal complaint against President Traian Băsescu. In this complaint, the President is accused of blackmail and threat. European Socialist leader Sergey Stanishev condemned the statements made by Traian Băsescu, claiming that declarations to Gabriela Firea are provocative and inflammatory, and the suggestion that her husband could \"disappear\" is beyond the limits of decency.\n\nAfter the scandal of Mehedinți County Council chairman, Adrian Duicu, where prosecutors say Duicu made influence peddling from Victor Ponta's office at Victoria Palace, in the presence of Interior Minister Radu Stroe, the Premier decided to move his office to the Ministry of National Defence, with \"military security\". Victor Ponta vehemently denied his involvement in this case, claiming that this scandal is only a frame-up. Journalists criticized the stultification of the scandal involving Prime Minister Victor Ponta, accusing him that he tries to move the discussion from concrete facts reported by DNA prosecutors in the plan of political conflict with Traian Băsescu and \"press staging\". Victor Ponta's movement from the Victoria Palace to the Ministry of Defence was also criticized by PNL President Crin Antonescu, claiming that the Prime Minister \"has lost control\" and \"mocks the country's institutions\".\n\nAn apparent discrepancy between the number of polling stations and the estimated voters in most European countries (in Germany only five stations were open for more than 200,000 expats), voters saw this as an ideologically selective denial of exercising the right to vote. This fact attracted Romanians' angry at Ponta's policies, who began a \"campaign\" of protests and civil demonstrations within the country and abroad. Protests first broke out on 8 November when thousands gathered in city squares in support of compatriots living abroad who were turned away as they tried to vote in the first round, prompting Romania's foreign minister Titus Corlățean to resign. Long queues and bureaucratic hurdles made the voting process lengthy at Romanian embassies across the European Union and elsewhere in the first round. Many were unable to cast their ballots before voting ended. The government has taken measures to ensure 16 November vote runs smoothly, increasing the number of voting booths and staff abroad. But it has not increased the number of polling stations, as Romanian diaspora groups had demanded.\nA day before the presidential runoff, large demonstrations were held across the country, with 15,000 attendees in Cluj-Napoca and 5,000 in Timișoara. The protests targeted PSD candidate and PM Victor Ponta, blamed for poor organization of the voting process in diaspora. The irregularities in the first round repeated in the runoff. Then, tens of thousands of Romanians abroad were attacked with batons and tear gas by law enforcers, while voters forced the entrance into embassies to cast their vote. In Bucharest, up to 20,000 people gathered to protest against Victor Ponta, destroying the electoral posters with him. To everyone's surprise, ethnic German candidate Klaus Iohannis from PNL won the election with a comfortable margin, despite the fact that Victor Ponta surpassed Iohannis in all polls. Iohannis celebrated the victory with demonstrators in University Square. The result of the vote was seen in media as a \"small revolution\", given that Victor Ponta controlled the government since 2012, and PSD is the largest party in the country.\n\nIn March 2015, a dispute arouse between ruling alliance PSD–UNPR–PC and main opposition party, PNL. PSD majority in the Senate rejected the solicitation of DNA prosecutors of arresting PSD MP Dan Șova in a corruption case. Although the vote was detrimental to Șova (79 to 67), PSD senators made use of a provision in the Rules of the Senate, ignoring the Constitution. The Rules of the Senate say that a decision is taken by majority of all members, not by the majority of members present. Thus, by this interpretation, DNA needed 85 votes in favor. The interpretation of the law by PSD senators defies the Constitution, namely Article 76, which states that \"Ordinary laws and resolutions shall be passed by a majority vote of members present in each Chamber\".\n\nIn this context, the National Liberal Party intends to appeal to the Constitutional Court the decision of the Senate, also demanding early elections. The Constitutional Court was also appealed by President Klaus Iohannis and the National Anticorruption Directorate. George Kent, main coordinator of anticorruption programs in the Bureau for Europe and Eurasia of the U.S. State Department, criticized the decision, pointing that \"justice must be able to judge\". Moreover, British Embassy in Bucharest expressed its concern about vote in the case of Dan Șova, stressing that \"no one is above the law\". The same position was taken by Klaus Iohannis, also stating that \"quality of deputy, senator or minister should not give anyone immunity to justice\". Netherlands Embassy stated that follows \"with concern and surprise\" developments concerning parliamentary immunity, especially in a context where political parties have pledged to fight corruption. Cultural figures of Romania, among them writer Mircea Cărtărescu, demanded early elections and expressed their dissatisfaction with the vote.\n\nFollowing a complaint lodged by PNL, judges of the Constitutional Court ascertained, on 6 May, that the Senate decision in Șova case is unconstitutional, because it was adopted pursuant to legal and regulation dispositions which contravened the provisions of Article 76 paragraph 2 of the Constitution.\n\nIn 2015, following the Colectiv nightclub fire, a series of protests were held across Romania. These resulted in the resignation of the Prime Minister at that time, Victor Ponta. Afterwards, on 10 November 2015, President Klaus Iohannis nominated Dacian Cioloș to be prime minister. On 17 November 2017 the Parliament voted in favour of the nomination, which marked the beginning of the Cioloș Cabinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "31801003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31801003", "title": "Anambé", "text": "Anambé\n\nThe Anambé are an indigenous people of Brazil, living in the state of Pará, Brazil.\n\nThe Anambé have been in contact with non-natives since the 1842. In the 1940s, their population was 60. The population decreased due to the introduction of measles. Also many Anambé women married outside the tribe. The tribe has increased in population since the 1960s.\n\nAnambé people speak the Anambé language, which is a Tupi language, belonging to the Tupi–Guarani language family, Subgroup VIII. Its ISO 639-3 language code is \"aan\". Only approximately seven people still speak Anambé today.\n"}
{"id": "3314471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3314471", "title": "Anna Maria van Schurman", "text": "Anna Maria van Schurman\n\nAnna Maria van Schurman (November 5, 1607 – May 4, 1678) was a Dutch painter, engraver, poet, and scholar, who is best known for her exceptional learning and her defence of female education. She was a highly educated woman, who excelled in art, music, and literature, and became proficient in fourteen languages, including Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, Syriac, Aramaic, and an Ethiopic language, as well as various contemporary European languages.\n\nVan Schurman was born in Cologne, a bright daughter of wealthy parents, Frederik van Schurman, from Antwerp (d. 1623) and Eva von Harff de Dreiborn. At four years old she could already read. Between 1613 and 1615, her family moved to Utrecht, and about ten years later, they moved again, this time to Franeker, in Friesland. From about 11 years old, Schurman's father started teaching her Latin and other subjects along with his sons, an unusual decision at a time when girls in noble families were not generally tutored in the classics. To learn Latin she was given Seneca to read by her father. The private education and self-study was complemented through correspondence and discussions with notables such as André Rivet and Friedrich Spanheim, both professors of Leiden University, and the family's neighbour Gisbertus Voetius, a professor at the University of Utrecht. She also excelled at painting, paper-cutting, embroidery, and wood carving. After her father's death, the family moved back to Utrecht in 1626. In her 20s Schurman's home became a meeting point for intellectuals. Among her friends were Constantijn Huygens, Johan van Beverwijck, Jacob de Witt, Cornelius Boy, Margaret Godewijck and Utricia Ogle. In the 1630s she studied engraving with Magdalena van de Passe.\n\nIn 1634, due to her distinction in Latin, she was invited to write a poem for the opening of the University of Utrecht. In the poem she celebrated the city of Utrecht and the new University. She noted the potential for the university to help the city cope with the economic impacts of the floods and the shifting course of the river Rhine. But she also challenged the exclusion of women from the university. In response to her complaint the university authorities allowed her to attend professor Voetius' lectures. Thus, in 1636 she became the first female student at the university. Women at that time were not permitted to study at a university in Protestant Netherlands and for the lectures she attended she sat behind a screen or in a curtained booth so that the male students could not see her. At the university she also studied Hebrew, Arabic, Chaldee, Syriac and Ethiopian. This made her the first woman to study at a Dutch university. Her interest in philosophy and theology, and her artistic talent contributed to her fame and reputation as the \"Star of Utrecht\". By the 1640s she was fluent in 14 languages and wrote in Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Italian, French, Arabic, Persian, Ethiopian, German and Dutch.\n\nAccording to her contemporary Pierre Yvon, Schurman had an excellent command of mathematics, geography and astronomy. The pious young scholar appeared to have had a number of suitors. After his wife had died in 1631 Constantijn Huygens asked for Schurman's hand in marriage and wrote 10 poems in three languages to her in 1634. Huygens was teased by other Dutch intellectuals. Schurman's commitment to celibacy and her studies seemed to be unwavering. When she chose the phrase \"Amor Meus Crucifixus Est\" (\"My Love Has Been Crucified\") as her motto, her intellectual friends were finally convinced that her choice not to marry was rooted in her piety, rather than her scholarship.\n\nSchurman also produced delicate engravings by using a diamond on glass, sculpture, wax modelling, and the carving of ivory and wood. She also painted, especially portraits, becoming the first known Dutch painter to use pastel in a portrait. She gained honorary admission to the St. Luke Guild of painters in 1643, signalling public recognition of her art.\n\nSchurman corresponded with the Danish noblewoman Birgitte Thott, who translated classical authors and religious writings. Thott's translation of Seneca's philosophical works included a preface in which she agitated for women's right to study. Thott stated that she translated classical works because few women were able to read Latin. Schurman publicly praised Thott and called her the \"tenth Muse of the North\". Schurman through correspondence established a network of learned women across Europe. She corresponded in Latin and Hebrew with Dorothea Moore, in Greek with Bathsua Makin, in French, Latin and Hebrew with Marie de Gournay and Marie du Moulin, in Latin and French with Elizabeth of Bohemia, and in Latin with Queen Christina of Sweden. A frequent topic in this correspondence was the education of women. Schurman in the correspondence expressed her admiration for educated women like Lady Jane Gray and Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nAn unauthorised version of Schurman's writings on women's education was published in 1638 in Paris under the title \"Dissertatio De Ingenii Muliebris ad Doctrinam, & meliores Litteras aptitudine\". As the unauthorised collection of her writings circulated, Schurman decided to publish an authoritative Latin treatise in 1641. In 1657 the treatise was published in English under the title \"The Learned Maid or, Whether a Maid may be a Scholar\".\n\nIn her 60s Schurman emerged as one of the principal leaders of the Labadists. In the 1660s Schurman had become increasingly disillusioned with the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands. She made the reformation of the church her goal. Aside from corresponding with ministers she travelled throughout the country and organised meetings with them. She lamented the lack of spiritual devotion, and \"exhibits of the ecclesiastics\" that occupied the church's pulpits.\n\nIn 1661 Schurman's brother studied theology with the Hebrew scholar Johannes Buxtorf in Basel, and got to know about the defrocked French priest Jean de Labadie. He travelled to Geneva to meet him. In 1662 he corresponded with Schurman at length about Labadie's teachings. When Labadie and a small number of followers stopped over in Utrecht on the way to Middelburg, they lodged in Schurman's house. Labadie became the pastor of Middelburg, preaching millenarianism, arguing for moral regeneration, and that believers should live apart from unbelievers. Schurman supported him, even when he was removed as a pastor. When in late 1669 Labadie settled in Amsterdam to establish a separatist church Schurman sold her house and part of her library. She joined Labadie's sectarian community. In March 1669 she had broke with the Reformed Church when she published a 10-page pamphlet \"On the Reformation necessary at present in the Church of Christ\". She denounced the church men for trampling on \"celestial wisdom\", arguing that the people of God should be separated from the \"mondains\" through \"hatred of the world\" and \"divine love\".\n\nA public smear campaign followed, Schurman was attacked by her intellectual friends, including Huygens and Voetius. Her writing style became forthright and confident. When the Labadists had to leave Amsterdam Schurman secured an invitation from her friend Princess Elisabeth of Bohemia, who in 1667 had become abbess at the Lutheran \"Damenstift\" of Herford Abbey. The 50 Labadists lived there between 1670 and 1672. At Herdford Schurman continued her art work and the Labadists maintained a printing press. Schurman was referred to by the Labadists as \"Mama\", Labadie as \"Papa\". Rumours had it that Labadie and Schurman had married, however he married Lucia van Sommelsdijck. In 1772 the Labadists moved to Altona in Denmark, Elisabeth of Bohemia had advocated on their behalf in correspondence with the King of Denmark. In 1673 Schurman published \"Eukleria, or Choosing the Better Part\", a reference to Luke 10:42 when Mary chooses the better part by sitting at the feet of Christ. In it she derided Gisbertus Voetius's opposition to her admiration for Saint Paula, a disciple of St Jerome, who had helped to translate the Bible into Latin. Voetius argued that women should have a limited public role, anything else was feminine impropriety. \"Eukleria\" was well received by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and prominent prietists, including Johann Jacob Schütz, Philipp Jakob Spener and Eleonore van Merlau.\n\nWhen Labadie died in 1674 Schurman investigated the possibility of moving to England, corresponding with the Latin scholar Lucy Hutchinson and the theologian John Owen on the matter. But the Labadists moved to the village Wieuwerd in Friesland and attracted numerous new members, including Maria Sibylla Merian. About 400 Labadists practiced absolute detachment from worldly values. They attempted to return to early church practices, sharing all property. In the final years of her life Schurman was housebound due to severe rheumatism. She continued to write, keeping up correspondence and working on the second part of \"Eukleria\". She died aged 70 in 1678.\n\nMany of Schurman's writings were published during her lifetime in multiple editions, however some of her writings have nevertheless been lost. Her most famous book was the \"Nobiliss. Virginis Annae Mariae a Schurman Opuscula Hebraea Graeca Latina et Gallica, Prosaica et Metrica\" (\"Minor works in Hebrew, Greek, Latin and French in prose and poetry by the most noble Anne Maria van Schurman\"). It was published 1648 by Friedrich Spanheim, professor of theology at Leiden University through the Leiden-based publisher Elzeviers.\n\nSchurman's \"The Learned Maid or, Whether a Maid may be a Scholar\" had grown out of her correspondence on women's education with theologians and scholars across Europe. In it she advances Jane Grey as an example of the value of female education. Schurman argued that educating women in languages and the Bible will increase their love of God. While an increasing number of royal and wealthy families chose to educate their daughters, girls and women did not have formal access to education. Schurman argued that \"A Maid may be a Scholar... The assertion may be proved both from the property of the form of this subject; or the rational soul: and from the very acts and effects themselves. For it is manifest that Maids do actually learn any arts and science.\" In arguing that women had rational souls she foreshadowed the Cartesian argument for human reason, and it underpinned her assertion that women had a right to be educated. Schurman and René Descartes corresponded and while they disagreed on the interpretation of the Bible they both thought that reason was central in the human identity.\n\n\"The Learned Maid\" included correspondence with the theologian André Rivet. In her correspondence with Rivet Schurman explained that women such as Marie de Gournay had already proven that man and woman are equal, so she will not \"bore her readers with repetition\". Like Rivet, Schurman argued in \"The Learned Maid\" for education on the basis of moral grounds, because \"ignorance and idleness cause vice\". But Schurman also took the position that \"whoever by nature has a desire for arts and science is suited to arts and science: women have this desire, therefore women are suited to arts and science\". However, Schurman did not advocate for universal education, or the education for women of the lower classes. She took the view that ladies of upper classes should have access to higher education. Schurman made the point that women could make a valuable contribution to society, and argued that it was also necessary for their happiness to study theology, philosophy and the sciences. In reference to \"The Learned Maid\" Rivet cautioned her in a letter that \"although you have shown us this with grace, your persuasions are futile... You may have many admirers, but none of them agree with you.\"\n\n\"Incomplete list\"\n\nJudy Chicago's feminist artwork \"The Dinner Party\" (1979) features a place setting for van Schurman.\n\nA marble bust of van Schurman is in the atrium of the Tweede Kamer of the Dutch Parliament in The Hague.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8946748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8946748", "title": "Arabela language", "text": "Arabela language\n\nArabela is a nearly extinct indigenous American language of the Zaparoan family spoken in two Peruvian villages in tropical forest along the Napo tributary of the Arabela river.\n\nAlso known as Chiripuno and Chiripunu, it is spoken by fewer than 50 people out of an ethnic population of about 500.\n\nSince there are so few speakers of Arabela left, its speakers speak either Spanish or Quechua as a second language. The literacy rate for Arabela as a first language is about 10–30%, and about 50–75% for a second language. It uses a SOV word order.\n\nLike all native languages in Peru, it has an official status in areas where it is spoken.\n\nArabela is a language of the Zaparoan family of languages. Zaparoan tongues were once widely spoken in the rain forest of north-eastern Peru, but Zaparoan-speaking people have been decimated by diseases, wars with neighboring native groups, and by quasi-enslavement during the rubber boom. Most Zaparoan communities have shifted to Lamas Quechua or Spanish, while others have been incorporated into Shuar groups. The few surviving Zaparoan languages are all severely endangered. Among those, Arabela is most closely related to Zaparo (the only one still spoken), Andoa and Conambo.\n\nThe dominant languages of the area are Kichwa and Spanish, and they are both widely spoken by Arabelas. Kichwa has been the default language for native communities in the area since the rubber boom era, and has spread through trade mixed marriages. It is, however, losing ground to Spanish in the younger generations. The use of Arabela is restricted to a small elderly fraction of the population. The language is official per the Constitution of Peru, but this did not stop its decline. There is no written literature in Arabela, but the language has been used in education by the Peruvian government, which has issued some school material in it. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been translated into Arabela in 1988.\n\nThere is no dialectal division among known Arabela speakers. A small group, called \"Pananuyuri\", separated from other Arabelas roughly a century ago. Their fate is unknown but they may have survived, in which case their dialect is likely to have somewhat diverged from the other speakers'.\n\nThe Arabela phonemic inventory is quite typical for a Zaparoan language. It has five places of articulation and a vowel inventory of five vowels common within the family.\n\nArabela has no grammatical gender but for a few words, mostly describing persons, the sex can be specified by adding a suffix :\n\n\nArabela has two grammatical numbers, singular and plural. The plural is generally added by adding a suffix to the singular, the nature of this suffix varying according to the pluralized word.\n\n\nIn a few cases, however, the plural can be formed through suffix substitution, or by using a different root altogether.\n\n\nA number of other words form their plural by removing a singular specific suffix\n\n\nArabela has a complex pronominal system, similar to the one of the other zaparoan languages and distinguishes between active and passive personal pronouns. Active pronouns act as subjects in independent clause and as objects in dependent ones.\n\nThe verbal ending -no is used as an anaphoric. It can also mark the subject of a subordinate sentence when it refers to the object of the main sentence.\n\nArabela has three kinds of demonstrative pronouns :\n\n\nArabela has a rather restricted of interrogative pronouns, composed of:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33486251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33486251", "title": "Atsam language", "text": "Atsam language\n\nAtsam, also known as Cawai (Chawai), is a Kainji language of Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "23624123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23624123", "title": "Barnesville Pumpkin Festival", "text": "Barnesville Pumpkin Festival\n\nThe Barnesville Pumpkin Festival is an annual festival in Barnesville, Ohio, dedicated to the growing and harvesting of pumpkins and other fall harvests. The festival, which has been held since 1964, is conducted by a locally appointed committee and attracts an average of 100,000 people during the 4 day event.\n\nThe Pumpkin Festival is held the last full week in September. The official ribbon cutting is held on Thursday, but the local citizens are encouraged to preview the festival on Wednesday.\n\nThe Pumpkin Festival begins preparations the Monday before the festival and restricted areas are placed from the center of town at the junction of Chestnut Street and Main Street, west along Main Street to the junction of Main Street and Gardner Street; and from where W. Church Street and N. Broadway Street meet, south to the junction of South Broadway and South Street. This however only comprises the downtown section, several other events and locations dot the town. There is abundant parking, but most is private and requires a parking and safety fee.\n\nThe Barnesville Pumpkin Festival began in 1964 as the Ohio Fall Festival and was held in the basement of the Church of the Assumption. The name changed to the Ohio Pumpkin Festival and the event was held out of doors in the center of town in the 1970s and changed to the Barnesville Pumpkin Festival later that same decade.\n\nThe Barnesville Pumpkin Festival holds its annual weigh-in on the Wednesday preceding the event. The event has seen pumpkins with weights breaking and matching state and local records. The King Pumpkin contenders are too heavy to be weighed on a conventional scale, weighing in at over 650kg (1400 lbs), and thus a local funeral home scale is used. The official ribbon cutting is held the following day and is done by either the committee president, city mayor, parade marshal or other notable local figure. The Annual Pumpkin Auction is held on the last day, Sunday, where the local business compete bids to display the winning pumpkin and sell off the seeds as they see fit.\n\nThe Olney Friends School is famous for bringing over 700 loaves of pumpkin bread to sell from their booth, baked by the students.\n\nThere are many games, rides, and other activities set up during the festival. Some of the usual rides are the G-Force, The Pumpkin Ride, The Umbrellas, and the Monkey Cages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16511975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16511975", "title": "Black Magic (1949 film)", "text": "Black Magic (1949 film)\n\nBlack Magic is a 1949 film adaptation of Alexandre Dumas's novel \"Joseph Balsamo\". It was directed by the Russian-born Gregory Ratoff. Set in the 18th century, the film stars Orson Welles in the lead role as Joseph Balsamo, a hypnotist, magician, and charlatan who also goes by the alias Count Cagliostro, and Nancy Guild as Lorenza/Marie Antoinette. Akim Tamiroff has a featured role.\n\nAlexandre Dumas, Sr. (Berry Kroeger) tells his son Alexandre Dumas, Jr. (Raymond Burr) the story of Joseph Balsamo (Orson Welles) aka Cagliostro. Through flashbacks we learn that Balsamo was a French gypsy boy who endured much hardship. He was tortured under the command of Viscount de Montagne (Stephen Bekassy) and his parents were ordered to hang. He was rescued by some gypsies led by Gitano and swears revenge on de Montagne.\n\nSome years later, he learns the secrets of hypnosis from Dr. Mesmer (Charles Goldner). Ignoring the doctor's advice that he use his powers for healing, he exploits his new talent to the full, gaining wealth, fame and prestige. After changing his name to Count Cagliostro, he becomes famous throughout Europe.\n\nThings begin to go downhill when he enters a plot to substitute a young girl called Lorenza (Nancy Guild) for Queen Marie Antoinette along with gypsies Gitano (Akim Tamiroff) and Zoraida (Valentina Cortese). The plot is organised by de Montagne in association with Madame du Barry. They plan for Lorenza to impersonate the Queen and buy a frivolous necklace.\n\nZoraida becomes jealous of Lorenza, who has fallen under Cagliostro's power, forgetting her true love, Gilbert. Gilbert runs away with Lorenza. Cagliostro recaptures her and marries her, hypnotised.\n\nKing Louis XV dies and Marie Antoinette becomes queen. She orders Cagliosto to leave the country. Cagliostro gets Lorenza to impersonate the Queen and pretend to be in love with de Montagne. He buys the necklace and the queen's reputation is damaged.\n\nZoraida brings Lorenza to Marie Antoinette and reveals Cagliostro's plot. Lorenza agrees to testify against Cagliostro, but at the trial, Cagliostro hypnotizes her into stating that she knows nothing. Cagliostro hypnotizes Gilbert into testifying against the queen.\n\nHowever, Memser then uses the necklace to hypnotize Cagliostro into confessing. Cagliostro awakens from his trance and escapes with the hypnotized Lorenza. Gilbert pursues them and kills Cagliostro in a sword fight.\n\nThe movie was originally known as \"Cagliostro\". Producer Edward Small went through a number of directors and stars in trying to get this film off the ground, starting in 1943. Charles Boyer was to star with Akim Tamiroff, and Irving Pichel directing, then in early 1944 J. Carrol Naish was reported to play Alexandre Dumas, Sr. Later that year, George Sanders was announced as the star with Douglas Sirk directing. Louis Hayward was also at one stage announced to star.\n\nIn 1943 Hedda Hopper suggested Orson Welles should play the lead role. He signed in September 1947.\n\nIn 1947, Small was to make the film in Mexico, but dropped those plans when it turned out to be more expensive to shoot there than he expected – so the location of shooting was changed to Italy, where Small could use blocked lira. Small borrowed Gregory Ratoff, Frank Latimore and Nancy Guild from Twentieth Century-Fox and took over the Scalera studios in Rome from early October 1947 to late January 1948.\n\nCharles Bennett, who wrote the script, said Jose Ferrer was supposed to play the lead but he demanded a three picture contract from Small who refused. Bennett later said Ratoff and Welles rewrote the film, but he admired Welles' performance.\n\nOrson Welles said Small (\"no mean master of suggestion, by the way\") approached him \"very cleverly with the role of Cagliostro. He waited til I had reread the Dumas novels and become so 'hypnotised' by the scoundrel that I felt I had to play him. Then Small announced casually, 'Gregory Ratoff is going to direct'. That cinched it. Gregory is a great friend, and more fun to work with than anybody I know.\"\n\nUnited Artists were so enthusiastic about the film they agreed to distribute the film for 25% of the profits as opposed to their usual fee of 27 1/2%.\nWelles allegedly directed several scenes in the film, which was released on 18 August 1949.\n\nReviews were mixed.\n\nThe 2006 film \"Fade to Black\" has Welles (Danny Huston) involved in a murder mystery while in Rome for the production of \"Black Magic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "15229390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15229390", "title": "Bonda language", "text": "Bonda language\n\nThe Bonda language, also known as Bondo or Remo, is an indigenous language spoken in Odisha, formerly known as Southern Odisha, in India. It had 2,568 speakers, all in Odisha, according to the 1951 Census of India, increasing to approximately 9,000 speakers in 2002 according to SIL.\n\nThe Bonda language is an indigenous language belonging to the Southern subgroup of the Munda branch of the Austroasiatic language family. Bonda is a spoken language with no traditional written system recorded. Bonda is a part of the Gutob-Remo branch, due to the similarities Bonda shares with another Southern Munda Language named Gutob\n\nThe Bonda language derives its name from the tribe of the Bonda people, an indigenos group located in Odisha known as the Bonda Highlanders. In their native language, the Bonda people regard themselves as \"Remo', which translates to human, and derive their language name from that root, calling their language as the human language or 'Remosam' in their native tongue\n\nThe language differs slightly, classified according to whether it can be categorized as Plains Remo (Bonda) or Hill Remo (Bonda).\n\nThis is a subdivision of Bonda, localized in 35 villages throughout the Khairpat within the Malkangiri district in Odisha. In 1941, 2,565 people categorized the Plains Remo. That number nearly doubled in 1971, with 4,764 people classifying themselves as Plains Remo. The increase in population was not correlated with language extension. There are 3,500 speakers as of 2002, but few are monolingual.\n\nThis is a subdivision of Bonda, localized in the Jeypore Hills region of Odisha. There are 5,570 speakers as of 2002.\n\nIn Bonda, primary stress is placed on the last syllable in a word, syllables with diphthongs, glottal stops, or checked consonants. However, Plains Remo primarily stresses the second syllable in a word. Bonda words can have a maximum of 5 syllables.\n\nDiphthongs are placed either in the beginning or middle of a word, usually used in combination of two different vowel types.\nThere are 33 consonants in the Bonda language.\n\n/z/ only occurs in loanwords from Odia. \n\nBonda has 5 vowel phonemes: /a, e, i, o, u/.\n\nIn Bonda, vowels are nasalized and clusters are commonplace.\n\nBonda follows the SOV (Subject + Object + Verb) sequence, but other word orders are possible.\n\nAge and gender serve as classification denominations for individuals. Female names end in /-i/ and male names end in /-a/. Animals are also distinguished by gender.\n\nThe compound verb is not frequently used in Bonda and can be used as a conjunctive participle.\n\nIn Kinship terms, the velar nasal, ŋ, is often used. Various kinship terms also represent multiple positions.\n\n"}
{"id": "28121033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28121033", "title": "Caravan to Vaccarès (film)", "text": "Caravan to Vaccarès (film)\n\nCaravan to Vaccarès is a 1974 British-French action film directed by Geoffrey Reeve and starring David Birney, Charlotte Rampling and Michael Lonsdale. It was loosely based on the novel \"Caravan to Vaccarès\" by Alistair MacLean.\n\nIn the south of France, a mysterious assassin shoots one man, then another.\n\nA wandering young American adventurer, Bowman (David Birney), meets a pretty young British photographer, Lila (Charlotte Rampling) when she hitches a ride. They run into the assassin while helping a couple who have broken down by the side of the road.\n\nWhen they arrive in town they meet a French duke (Michel Lonsdale) who invites them to dinner. David reveals that the duke had met him in Paris and offered him a job for $3,000 and a return ticket to New York but he doesn't know what for. He is driving a car lent by the duke. That night a man breaks into a place where they are staying but Bowman fights him off.\n\nThe duke appears and hires Bowman to smuggle a Hungarian scientist (Michael Bryan) out of France to the United States. Bowman is reluctant but the duke says if he won't do it he will report the car as being stolen.\n\nThe scientist escaped the Iron Curtain by hiding with a caravan of gypsies, but is being pursued by an unscrupulous gang bent on capturing him for sale to the highest bidder.\n\nA woman who helps Bowman is murdered at a bull fight. She turns out to be the Duc's daughter.\n\nLila and the scientist are kidnapped, but Borman rescues them. Lila and Bowman sleep together.\n\nBowman is driving the scientist to safety in a car when a helicopter chases after them. The helicopter drives the car off the road. It seems the scientist has fallen into quicksand; a rope is dropped from the helicopter to retrieve him. However it turns out the man is Bowman in disguise. He overpowers one of the men in the helicopter then is dropped into a bull ring. Bowman defeats a bull fighter and is about to be killed by a charging bull but is rescued when the Duc shoots it dead.\n\nThe Duc farewells Bowman and Lila at the airport with the scientist.\n\n\nThe story was originally written as a screenplay before being turned into a novel.\n\nThe film was shot on location in the Camargue. The finale, where David Birney is dropped into a bull ring from helicopter was filmed last.\n\nThe film had a royal premiere at the Odeon in Leicester Square honour of the Save the Children Fund. It was attended by Princess Anne and her husband Mark Phillips. They were protected by her bodyguard Inspector James Beaton. It was Beaton's return to duty after having been wounded during a kidnapping attempted on the princess.\n\n\"The Guardian\" praised Rampling's beauty but said Birney \"is about as expressive as a constipated owl\" and that the film had \"rather plastic romance and enough cinematic action to fill half a bucket with stuntmen's sweat.\"\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31673042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31673042", "title": "Center for Socialist Studies", "text": "Center for Socialist Studies\n\nThe Center for Socialist Studies is an organizational center for the dissemination of socialist ideas and politics located in Giza, Egypt. It produces and sells left-wing theoretical books, magazines and newsletters as well as hosting public events and lectures on political issues. It receives no government or NGO funding, instead relying on financial contributions and donations from the center's members and supporters. It was founded by Kamal Khalil of the Revolutionary Socialists in the early 2000s.\n\n"}
{"id": "58301714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58301714", "title": "Daewoo dissolution and corruption scandal", "text": "Daewoo dissolution and corruption scandal\n\nDaewoo dissolution and corruption scandal refer to the 1999-2006 scandal in South Korea involving the bankruptcy of Daewoo, then-country's second largest company, and a subsequent corruption investigation, involving arrests, escapes and eventual conviction of dozens of company's top executives. The resulting scandal has been described as one of the biggest scandals in South Korea.\n\nDaewoo was a major South Korean conglomerate. Prior to the Asian financial crisis, Daewoo was the second largest conglomerate in Korea. By 1999, Daewoo went bankrupt, with debts of about US$50-80 billion.\n\nSoon after the demise, South Korean prosecutors filed chargers against over 40 top executives, in what BBC described as the Daewoo corruption scandal. This was related to the discovery that company's auditors concealed the amount of debt, and that bribes of about 470 million won were involved (close to US$400 million). Loss from bribery and corruption has been estimated to over US$1 billion.\n\nDaewoo Chairman Kim Woo-Jung fled to Vietnam, and former Daewoo factory workers put up \"Wanted\" posters with his picture. Kim returned to Korea in June 2005 and was promptly arrested. He was charged with masterminding accounting fraud of 41 trillion won (US$43.4 billion), illegally borrowing 9.8 trillion won (US$10.3 billion), and smuggling US$3.2 billion out of the country. On 30 May 2006, Kim was sentenced to 10 years in prison after being convicted of fraud and embezzlement. On the last day of the trial, Kim tearfully addressed the court, \"I cannot dodge my responsibility of wrongly buttoning up the final button of fate.\" On 30 December 2007, Kim was granted amnesty by President Roh Moo-hyun.\n\n"}
{"id": "44415727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44415727", "title": "Development communication policy science", "text": "Development communication policy science\n\nDevelopment communication policy sciences is the study of policy issues related to development communications. These two branches of social sciences are regarded as distinct and mutually exclusive areas of study but are said to be inextricably linked.\n\nAccording to Nora C. Quebral (2012), the University of the Philippines Los Baños defines Development Communication as the interaction of two social process—development and communication—in any given environment. Quebral, being the \"mother of development communication\", initially articulated that, in 1971, Development Communication was tentatively defined as \"the art and science of human communication applied to the speedy transformation of a country and the mass of its people from poverty to a dynamic state of economic growth that makes possible greater social equality and larger fulfillment of the human potential\" (p. 3). Gonzales (no date) defines development as a \"quest for an improved quality of life for all\" and communication is used to facilitate changes in people and society so that their full potential will be realised. Grounded on the mentioned basic meanings of development and communication, development communication is defined as \"the use of communication in development work\". Guru (1997) adds that development communication provides a conceptual and practical framework which is meant to accelerate the process of development in all spheres of human life. It is also meant to break the wall of ignorance, thus, breaking the bonds of poverty and oppression. In 1993, Alexander Flor suggested to refine the definition of development communication including the perspective of cybernetics and general systems theory. In 1995, Alexander Flor claimed development communication as the Fifth Theory of the Press. According to the author, it is the suitable system given \"the social and political structures\" of the Third World and its present universal environment. In UNESCO's approaches to development communication, Jan Servaes cited \"while communication on its own will not bring about change and development, neither will change happen without development communication. We need to integrate all our efforts\". Flor & Ongkiko (1998) describe development communication in the book titled 'Introduction to Development Communication' as purposive as it primarily uses communication not merely to give information but practically to influence the people- the receivers of information. Nair (1993) adds that development communication brings change, education and inspiration toward development.\n\nIn 2001, Quebral redefined development communication as the \"art and science of human communication linked to a society's planned transformation from a state of poverty to one of dynamic socio-economic growth that makes for greater equity and the larger unfolding of individual potential\". The World Bank views development communication as the \"integration of strategic communication in development projects\" based on a clear understanding of indigenous realities. In 2006, Bassette defined development communication as a \"planned and systematic application of communication resources, channels, approaches and strategies to support the goals of socio–economic, political and cultural development\". In 2007, the Rome Consensus gave this definition: \"Communication for Development is a social process based on dialogue using a broad range of tools and methods. It is also about seeking change at different levels including listening, building trust, sharing knowledge and skills, building policies, debating and learning for sustained and meaningful change. It is not public relations or corporate communication.\"\n\nAccording to Dr. Florangel Rosario-Braid, a communication expert in the Philippines, development communication is defined as a \"purposive approach to communication\" that intends to bring about social and economic change in the lives of the greatest number of the population. Braid says Development Communication involves three key elements: (1) Communication involves people's participation, (2) Stakeholders are in active dialogue and consultation, (3) End goal should be to uphold the rights and needs of the people and to achieve \"self-reliance and autonomy\".\n\nHuman perspectives of development come into consciousness through communication whereby social reality is negotiated culturally and politically. Communication encompasses all levels of development in society and development initiatives like in health, agriculture, family planning, etc. It is a tool for mitigating global frontiers, contrasts, and divisions and landscaping structural intricacies and dynamic transformations in this sphere—the evidences of change and their social evolution. The Communication Initiative Network defines communication in models of development. To study communication is no less than one way to study policy-making. Communication about development ensures the sustained attention to the issues and which in turn is necessary in getting the essential commitment from world leaders and the wider public to give meaning to the process.\n\nThe purpose of development communication is to support sustainable change in development operations by engaging key stakeholders, specifically, to: (a) establish conducive environments for assessing risks and opportunities; (b) disseminate information [to generate knowledge, p. 14]; (c) induce behavior and social change. Communicating \"development\" is framed within economic growth under the Western-centric modernization for underdeveloped countries using traditional vertical (top-down), linear, one-way Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver model based on Lasswell's 1948 communication theory as monologic, persuasive information and message transfer/dissemination/diffusion or selling of ideas through mass media (e.g., advertisements, social marketing). This dominant paradigm which was opposed by the political-economic framework of dependency is in part abandoned and has taken the perspectives of \"participation\", \"empowerment\", and socio-cultural \"multiplicity\" for sustainable or long-term economic growth stipulated by the Millennium Development Goals. Communication is underscored for meaningful participation using horizontal, two-way (dialogic/interactive) communication principles and practices to facilitate stakeholders' engagement throughout the development process. These are captured by the 17 Global Goals to 2030 for sustainable development through social progress.\n\nDevelopment communication as a field is defined by: (1) World Bank as \"an interdisciplinary field based on empirical research that helps to build consensus while it facilitates the sharing of knowledge to achieve positive change in development initiatives. It is not only about effective dissemination of information but also about using empirical research and two-way communication among stakeholders\" and key management tool in assessing socio-political risks and opportunities; and (2) First World Congress of Communication for Development in Rome on October 2006 as \"a social process based on dialog using a broad range of tools and methods. It is also about seeking change at different levels, including listening, building trust, sharing knowledge and skills, building policies, debating, and learning for sustained and meaningful change. It is not public relations or corporate communication\". Participation refers to people's involvement from social movement and project-based perspectives which could be passive (informed), consultative (provides feedback), functional (takes part in discussion and analysis by horizontal communication), and empowered (equal partners with external professionals in decision-making) along the ladder to change. To move into sustainability, change in people's beliefs and practices take place. However, \"...change cannot occur without communication\". Development communication accommodates three pillars of sustainable development: (1) ecological; (2) economic; and (3) social issues.\nIn addition, Paolo Mefalopulos of the World Bank, believes that a four-phase methodological framework can help formulate appropriate communication strategies in development communication through (1) research, often referred to as communication-based assessment, or CBA; (2) inputs for the strategy design; (3) production of the materials and implementation of the planned activities; and (4) evaluation.\n\nSocial, cultural, economic, political, technological and environmental issues and their utterances (also known as \"advocacies\") in the form of gender concerns, capitalism (e.g., welfare capitalism), marginalization (e.g., social welfare development), poverty, health care, climate change versus sustainable development, and social innovation are brought to public knowledge, and to a consensus for action on the interests, needs and capacities of all concerned through development communication. It also provides stakeholders access to national and local development goals and plans in a communication system where they can communicate horizontally and vertically to coordinate for resource and human development, more so to promote equal opportunities for social welfare, to seek social change involving innovations, and a higher quality of life and values of society. It is a vital part of the political and policy processes.\n\nThe interface of development communication and policy sciences is the common ground for social and political actions such as reforms in order to: (1) blur discriminatory tensions, (2) reckon the benefit of change, and (3) configure disarrays of allocating equities between the government, corporations, and social sectors. They strengthen the basic framework of management sciences by adding much needed components. Policies articulate directions for their mobilization and regulatory mechanisms since it is set to be anticipatory or forward-looking that is, problems have been envisioned (predicted) at vantage points (strategic) so countermeasures can have minimal consequences. 'Legitimacy' of policies can be defined in terms of their (a) effectiveness and (b) relevance in the real world to address the multidimensional and complex problems.\n\nThe policy sciences study the process of deciding or choosing and evaluate the relevance of available knowledge for the solution of particular problems. When policy scientists are concerned with government, law, and political mobilization, they focus on particular decisions. Policy scientists also study the choosing process of nongovernmental organizations and individuals and consider the significance of the current stock of knowledge for specific issues.\n\nAccording to Hale (2011), the central aim of policy sciences is to resolve problems [in the service of human dignity] and the diverse human, historical, and contextual element in public policy-making. This is a reiteration of the Lasswellian maxim on public policy in the following key elements: \"contextual\"; \"problem-oriented\"; \"multi-method inquiry\" or diverse empirical methods; \"political\"; \"normative, welfare-oriented\" in the case of social policy goals; and posing \"interdisciplinarity\" or moving between humanities and social sciences. Policy sciences improve decision-making by reinforcing and supporting human dignity to elide the blinders of instrumental reason by addressing the manifold of human experience.\n\nAccording to Laswell (1971), an adequate strategy of problem solving in policy sciences encompasses five intellectual tasks. These five tasks are performed at varying levels of insight and understanding: goal clarification; trend description; analysis of conditions; projection of developments; and invention, evaluation, and selection of alternatives. With this, the policy sciences integrate philosophy, history, science, prophecy, and commitment.\n\nPolicy is the \"plan of action\" for administration, management and control of resources. The Evidence-Based Policy in Development Network and Overseas Development Institute provide a mirror of policy sciences on development by information exchange between stakeholders. Policy-making involves analysis of data and options to determine the \"best\" possible solution to the problem, weighing between welfare, health, expediency, efficiency, justice, and rights, among other things at par with understanding value judgments. The Lessons Database by the Independent Evaluation Department of the Asian Development Bank frames the rigors of balancing a variety of factors in the context of organizational and operational effectiveness. Prioritization towards sustainable development is actually based on estimates of economic and social costs, interests and power structures, scientific information, and ethics.\n\nNair (1987) emphasized that communication can be utilized in providing service to the people. It is essential for mobilizing initiatives and providing information required for action in all fields of development such as agriculture, health and family planning, education and religion. However, MacBride Commission (1980) highlighted that adequate financing must be given to development projects. Without funds, programs of governments will not succeed. Apart from funding, there are other equally important aspects in implementing projects. Communication for Asia (CFA) shares their 5I's methodology in development communication: Inform, Instruct, Inspiration, Insist and Involvement. The 5I's means informing all stakeholders of concerns and priorities to achieve collaboration and cooperation of everyone in mutually sharing expertise and talents in serving the people.\n\nThe term \"policy sciences\" was originally coined by Harold D. Lasswell and Daniel Lerner as an approach to understanding and solving problems that draw on and contribute to all fields of knowledge. It is a set of procedures in an integrated and comprehensive form to help clarify and secure common interests. The term \"policy sciences\" is in plural form to emphasize its interdisciplinary nature. Fraser (1998) elucidated the purposive nature of both development communication and policy sciences, thus intertwining their functions. Policies will greatly aid in the successful implementation of projects as they provide directions on what necessary steps to take.\n\nIn the work of Alexander Flor, the term \"development communication policy sciences\" was not used as a whole phrase but was mentioned separately as development communication and policy sciences. He discussed the term according to the linkage of development communication and policy sciences as fundamental and traceable even before either area was afforded the status of science.\n\nCommunication policy research evolved from the outset as a multi-disciplinary field and domain of various academic disciplines from sociology and political science to law and economics, resulting in the coverage of a myriad of multi-faceted topics. The choice of subjects in communication policy research is affected by sociocultural, political, economic and technological forces that determine the overall framework for communication policy and regulation as well as by the many regulatory objectives in communication.\n\nThe place of communication in the development process was given a boost when Lerner (1958) wrote his famous treatise 'The Passing of the Traditional Society', in which he acknowledged that mass media growth was one of the three phases of democratic political development (Moemeka, n.d). He pointed out that the mass media had the power to create opportunity for empathy which 'disciplined western men in skills that spell modernity'.\n\nDevelopment communication is basically communication for social change to achieve one's potential. This is embodied in Nora Quebral's (1971) definition which states that development communication is the \"art and science of human communication applied to the speedy transformation of a country and the mass of its people from poverty to a dynamic state of economic growth that makes possible greater social equity and the larger fulfillment of the human potential.\" Quebral (2001) redefined development communication to \"the art and science of human communication linked to a society's planned transformation from a state of poverty to one of dynamic socio-economic growth that makes for greater equity and the larger unfolding of individual potential.\"\n\nMcKee (1992) emphasized that people's involvement is the key to the desired changes. Unless people see themselves as the driving force of their own development, no amount of investment or provision of technology and inputs will bring about any lasting improvements in their living standards.\n\nAn important and founding impetus for communication policy research came from Harold D. Lasswell, who also figures prominently as a founding father of communication science and policy science (Rogers 1994). He argued that future advances in communication study depended upon the development of a policy focus and upon being a third voice supplying 'a competing appraisal of the images spread by self-serving sources' (Lasswell 1972:307).\n\nThe conception of the policy sciences on the other hand, is more refined and extended today than at any time in the colorful history of man (Lasswell, 1971). Giving a working definition for it, he noted that policy sciences are concerned with knowledge of and in the decision processes of the public and civic order.\n\nAlthough development communication and the policy sciences, according to Flor (1991), are generally regarded as two distinct and mutually exclusive fields of study, the two stem from the same principle: the need to actively apply knowledge from and principles of the social sciences in solving societal problems under the conditions of social change.\n\nFlor and Ongkiko (1998), in their book- Introduction to Development Communication, state that development communication is purposive as it primarily uses communication not merely to give information but practically to influence the people- the receivers of information. Coyle (2008), in his article- Theory of Development Communication, articulates that where people have options to change their ways of life, communication becomes important in informing, persuading, listening, data gathering, educating, training and managing change. Communication then becomes an instrument in facilitating changes in people in order for them to realize their full potentials. Through it, people would improve their ways of thinking, their ways of acting and their ways of living resulting in a higher quality of life. In agreement, McKee (1992) explicated that the central objective of policy sciences is helping people make better decisions.\n\nSimilarly, policy sciences are purposive as these are anchored on the fulfillment of the aim of improving policy making to provide, as highlighted by Flor (1991), as much \"lead time\" as necessary in the solution of societal problems. Policy analysts or policy scientists have to be driven in their pursuit of effectively designing, formulating, analyzing, evaluating policies and most importantly of studying the policy making process in order to create a substantive impact on policymakers. Through communication, they would be able to exert a great influence in the decision making process of the policy makers who are responsible in making policies that would become the guiding principles in resolving concerns, dilemmas or issues with the end in view of effecting societal changes.\n\nCommunication is therefore central to development communication and policy sciences. As Allen (1978), cited by Flor (1991), states:\n\n\"Since communication permeates every facet of a person's behavior, the study of communication is no less than one way to study policy making. Communication is a useful concept, precisely because it is one more handle whereby we can effectively study policy making. Communication is one of those few variables through which any policy decision is dependent.\" Awa (1989) adds that communication sparks participation. Apart from having good policies which will direct projects to the grass roots level, people's participation is becoming the central issue of our time.\n\nUndeniably, development communication and the policy sciences are generally regarded as inextricable links in recognizing change in the society. Their engaged roles encourage and support research, practice, and education, and disseminate knowledge and information for the people through various means of communication. Such engagement leads to this further focus on these two's main target: Change. The Rome Consensus emphasized that for significant progress, development policies should integrate communication for development and strengthen communication capacity within countries and development organisations at all levels.\n\nIt has been widely established that mass media could fetch and cater education, essential skills, social harmony, and a desire to reach modernization. As stipulated in Walt Rostow's theory in Boado's (2000) article, societies progress through specific stages of development on their way to modernity, \"the age of high mass consumption.\" Meanwhile, Lerner suggested that exposure to media would generate empathy for modern culture, and a desire to move from long-established to contemporary ways. However, one needs to be made to understand the fallacy of the notion that communication is an all-embracing area.\n\nBeing the most used tool for development communication, mass media technologies have become the eyes and hands of the society in examining its social conditions, and to dissect and plot solutions through policy sciences, accordingly. In fact, in some instances, mass media technologies, including television, have been magic multipliers of development benefits. Educational television has been used effectively to supplement the work of teachers in classrooms in the teaching of literacy and other skills, but only in well designed programs which are integrated with other educational efforts. This insight regarding the integration of technology in the education set up basically creates a step-on-the-ladder of achieving change and development. Consequently, media play a significant role in the conduct of development communication projects. Communication media are agents of social change and indicators of national development.\n\nSince media and communication play a critical role in development, relevant communication policies are important for good governance to succeed. People engagement and participation in policy advocacy through dialogue are important to gain trust, acceptance, and cooperation from all stakeholders. According to Jan Servaes (2010), since public policies must be viewed as an integral part of the social and economic development process, the kind of advocacy that is ideal is that which is participatory. The focus in this approach is on 'listening' and 'cooperation' rather than on 'telling what to do' and presumes a dynamic two-way approach to communication.\n\nIn general, one can distinguish between (a) advocacy for policy design and decision-making aimed at ensuring political, social and legislative support for development issues (e.g. protection of the environment); and (b) advocacy for policy implementation which requires intensive efforts for mobilizing social forces, individuals and groups for development actions. Both are important and must be addressed. The aim in advocacy strategies is to foster political and public engagement as well as professionals in development issues through the process of social mobilization. There is no universal approach which can be used in all circumstances, flexibility is required in selecting appropriate strategies.\n\nThe communication media are critical in creating awareness, generating public interest and demand, and placing the issue on the public agenda and building social support. They can play two kinds of advocacy roles: (a) they can support development initiatives by the dissemination of messages that encourage the public to support development-oriented projects; and (b) they can provide decision makers with the information and feedback needed to reach a decision. Policymakers usually respond to popular appeal, to pressure groups, and to their own social network of policy- and decision-makers. Therefore, advocacy, political commitment, and supportive policies are often themselves a product of social support systems and empowerment of people. Advocacy should, therefore, be viewed in conjunction with social support and empowerment strategies.\n\nJan Servaez (2009) affirms that the importance of a free and balanced flow of information to an engaged civil society, through independent media and transparent government, has long been acknowledged. He sees that communication plays a pivotal role in improving governance in developing countries. Schramm (1964) stated that the task of mass media for information and the new media for education is to speed up and ease the long social transformation required for economic development, and, in particular, to speed up and smoothen the task of mobilizing human resources behind the national effort.\n\nGovernance may be defined as: (1) the process by which governments are selected, monitored and replaced, (2) the capacity of the government to formulate and implement sound policies effectively, (3) the respect of citizens and the state for the institutions that govern economic, political, and social interactions among them, and (4) the capacity for active and informed economic, social, and political dialogue among citizens within a public sphere.\n\nGovernance implies the ways through which citizens and groups in a society voice their interests, mediate their differences and exercise their legal rights and obligations. Good governance includes notions of greater participation by civil society in decision making, instituting the rule of law, anti-corruption, transparency, accountability, poverty reduction and human rights. Good governance links government to the notion of responsibility for and to the citizenry as opposed to the traditional idea of authority over a nation—legitimacy emanating from popular assent to and participation in government, which is concerned with the welfare of its citizens.\n\nThe role of the media in promoting good governance is clear. All aspects of good governance are facilitated by a strong and independent mediascape within a society. Only when journalists are free to monitor, investigate and criticize the public administration's policies and actions can good governance take hold. Independent media are like a beacon that should be welcomed when there is nothing to hide and much to improve. Indeed, this is the concrete link between the functioning of the media and good governance—the media allow for ongoing checks and assessments by the population of the activities of government and assist in bringing public concerns and voices into the open by providing a platform for discussion. Instead, all too often governments devise laws and informal means of keeping their activities hidden from public view or only available to media favorable to their viewpoint. In recent years, many governments have tried to co-opt journalists by paying part of their salaries or by giving them certain kinds of access on the condition that they will not report from other perspectives. If the media are to function in the public interest, governments have to protect the independent functioning of the media and allow various viewpoints to flourish in society.\n\nNewspapers, radio and television are found to be effective media in information dissemination and education of people. They serve as instruments in bridging the government, non-government organizations and the people for project implementation.\n\nIn India, television is used as a medium for social education, weapon against ignorance and awareness among the people, through its different programs like Educational Television (ETV), Countrywide Classroom (CWC) and Teleconferencing.\n\nApart from traditional media, today, social media have gained popularity in all social classes. They have gained a great deal of attention and research for their ability to raise awareness on issues, improve monitoring of environmental and social realities and as social networking for better governance and development. Social media have been used extensively by social movements to communicate, educate, organize, share cultural products of movements and build coalitions.\n\nSocial networking sites (SNS) offer news and opinion, promote discussion and a sense of community, and connect users with similar interests and viewpoints. They have enabled individuals to learn about new ideas and social movements as their friends and colleagues become involved in them.\n\nGuardian (2011) reports that Facebook has revolutionized communication by bridging distances and other factors which has impeded the process of communication in the past. Hashtags on Twitter added a new dimension to the process of participatory communication across the globe. While YouTube (2011) has been committed to the localization of its services.\n\nA key aspect of governance is how citizens, leaders, and public institutions relate to each other in order to make change happen (Haider Huma, et al., 2011). Communication structures ensure the two-way exchange of information between state and citizens, It allows the citizens to enter into dialogue with the state on policies issues that matter to them. This environment develops trust between state and society which lays the foundation of good governance.\n\nDevelopment communication has brought to the fore the evolution of communication for development (C4D)which has mirrored broader shifts in theories and models of economic and social development. For much of the post-World War II period, C4D was informed by the 'modernization' paradigm, which sought to transform 'traditional' societies into modern, Western societies through the transmission of attitudes, practices and technologies. Correspondingly, communication initiatives adopted a diffusion approach, which uses communication to carry out a transfer of information. It is seen as a way to amplify voices, facilitate meaningful participation and foster social change. This includes large-scale media campaigns, social marketing, dissemination of printed materials, 'education-entertainment' and other forms of one-way transmission of information from the sender to the receiver. Proponents of diffusion theory recognised the limitations of mass media, however, in promoting sustained behavioral change. The theory also incorporated interpersonal communication: face-to-face communication that can either be one-on-one or in small groups. The objectives are to share information, respond to questions, and motivate specific behavioral practices. The belief is that while mass media allows for the learning of new ideas, interpersonal networks encourage the shift from knowledge to continued practice.\n\nSimilarly, the interpersonal communication skills of field workers is very important in attaining triumph in projects. The interpersonal relationship of the project owner and the intended recipients will pave the way for participatory development—a two-way, dynamic interaction between grass roots receivers and the information source mediated by the development communicators.\n\nCriticism of the modernization paradigm grew in the 1970s and 1980s. The one-way flow of information and communication from the North to the South was criticized alongside calls for greater representation of voices from the South. At the same time, there was a push for more 'participatory' approaches to development. This triggered the emergence also of participatory development communication, which aims to empower the community towards collective decision-making and action through enhanced knowledge and skills to identify, prioritise and resolve problems and needs. Communication for development has thus come to be seen as a way to amplify voice, facilitate meaningful participation, and foster social change. The 2006 World Congress on Communication for Development defined C4D as 'a social process based on dialogue using a broad range of tools and methods. It is also about seeking change at different levels including listening, building trust, sharing knowledge and skills, building policies, debating and learning for sustained and meaningful change'. Such two-way, horizontal approaches to communication include public hearings, debates, deliberations and stakeholder consultations, participatory radio and video, community-based theatre and storytelling,and web forums. Diffusion and participatory approaches have been increasingly integrated or adopted in parallel in C4D initiatives. Such combinations allow agencies to reach broad audiences through large-scale campaigns while promoting local community development, empowerment and ownership through participation.\n\nHowever, while the role of communication in supporting development, and stimulating economic growth has increasingly been recognized in international policy statements, communication is relatively under-prioritized in the 'good governance' agenda. Some attribute this to a lack of robust evidence demonstrating communication's impact on governance, others argue it is more fundamentally a question of whether giving support to communication – which typically encompasses the development of an independent media sector, improving access to information, and the strategic use of media and political communication tools to influence behavior and social change – is a legitimate area for donor funding, given the often highly political nature of such interventions. What is clear is that the available research on the role of communication in governance is fragmented across multiple disciplines with often conflicting priorities (including political science, communications, media studies, and development studies). At the same time, there has been a dearth of practical guidance available to policymakers on understanding and using communication in governance reform.\n\nIn spite of its relative under-prioritisation in development assistance, few dispute the power of communication, and in particular the catalytic role of the media, in influencing governance relationships and processes: communication is widely seen as vital for connecting states with society, facilitating inclusive political systems, giving 'voice' to poor and marginalised groups, and enabling citizen participation and social accountability. Communication advocates also argue that the strategic use of political communication tools and methodologies can influence the attitudes, opinions and behaviour of key stakeholders and secure the political will necessary for reforms to be successful on the ground. With the recent rise of the fragile states agenda, there has been increased academic and donor interest in how communication can contribute to state-building by improving state-citizen relationships and helping to (re)build social contracts in conflict-affected states.\n\nThe process of development is expedited by mobilizing human resources. The Development Support Communication (DSC) states that an organization plans the use of information and communication resources to help achieve its goals.\n\nThe intertwining relationship of development communication, policy advocacy, and governance is aptly described in the concept of strategic communication of GIZ, a Germany-based international non-governmental organization. In 2006, the GIZ, (then the GTZ) published in 2006 an article on Strategic Communication for Sustainable development: A Conceptual Overview which is summarized here below:\n\nStrategic communication is not just disseminating information; it is the active gathering of stakeholders' views. It is a pre-requisite and an instrument of effective policy making and public participation, facilitating information exchange and establishing consensus among divergent opinions and interests. It facilitates the building of know-how, decision making and action capacities at the heart of the delicate cooperation between government, civil society groups, and the private sector. Both internal and external factors influencing human communication require consideration. Internal factors include norms and values, attitudes and behaviour. External factors include the 'vehicles' that bring the material to the target audience. Five branches of strategic communication are particularly applicable to sustainable development:\n\nDevelopment and environmental communication: Breaking down complex information into understandable elements in a socio-culturally relevant way for different audiences is a prerequisite for consensus building and change. A particularly successful model is the problem-oriented, participatory and focused Strategic Extension Campaign (SEC) developed by FAO.\nSocial marketing: This involves gathering input from intended beneficiaries to design communication campaigns promoting socially beneficial practices or products in a target group. Audience segmentation is a crucial element.\nNon-formal and environmental education: These involve promoting awareness, values and attitudes, skills and behaviour for sustainable development and effective participation in decision-making.\nCivil society mobilisation: This involves listening as well as 'talking', and combines vertical and horizontal social interaction through community-controlled media.\nConflict management and negotiation: Mediation, conciliation or arbitration can help to address communication deadlocks and power imbalances, and increase trust.\nIn 2007, Coffey International Development of London published The Role of Communication in Governance: Detailed Analysis. This paper analyses the positive and negative contributions of communication to governance. In theory, effective communication can help to promote good governance; however, a solid evidence base is lacking and a positive correlation should not be assumed. Existing studies suggest that it is not enough to create the means of communication; enabling factors must be in place so that voices can be heard and citizens can hold the government to account. Here below is the summary of this paper:\n\n\"If good governance requires an inclusive public space based on informed dialogue and debate, a positive relationship between communication and governance seems plausible. However, communication can further poor governance (when used to protect the state rather than serve as a voice for the people, for example, or when subject to elite capture). In addition, it is difficult to establish a clear evidence base to support positive connections between communication and governance. There are also challenges relating to causality where the link between communication and governance is thought to be reciprocal; for example, communication may help to promote good governance, but a freer government may also promote participation and communication.\"\n\nPolicy engagement in development communication is essential. From the start, development communication practitioners must build relationships with those they seek to inform, influence, and work together with for change. Policy scientists, in turn, must constantly look at how they will move their knowledge not just outward to broad audiences, but directly into practice.\n\nThe rationale for policy engagement in development communication is well understood:\n\nThe participatory approach in policy engagement is key in ensuring that the public and stakeholders have been involved at various stages. Waisbord (2002) presented the paradigm shift of development communication from the dominant paradigm of Modernism theories which focus on behavior change models to the more critical Dependency and Participatory theories and approaches. According to Waisbord (2002), participatory theories considered necessary a redefinition of development communication and one set of definitions stated that it (development communication) is the \"systematic utilization of communication channels and techniques to increase people's participation in development and to inform, motivate, and train rural populations mainly at the grassroots.\" Further, a decisive role can be played by communicating policies in promoting human development in today's climate of social change. It is vital to stimulate their awareness, participation and capabilities.\n\nMefalopulos (2008), author of the book \"Development Communication Sourcebook: Broadening the Boundaries of Communication\" points out the importance of \"meaningful and significant participation\" which is made possible mainly through communication. The author observes that \"many development programs, including community-driven ones seem not to pay similar attention to participation and communication.\" He notes that \"while paying attention to participation,communication which is intended as the professional use of dialogic methods and tools to promote change as an aspect is overlooked\" (p. 7). These views further advance that dialogues and interactions among various stakeholders are crucial in the participatory approach of policy making.\n\nWilson (2007) further stated that, \"All forms of participation are essentially communication processes.\" In a society, communication contributes to healthy political processes whether in drafting policies or keeping governments in check. Flor (2011) identified that the interplay of interests of \"the government, the education sector, the communication industry, the private sector, the church, foreign vested interests and the consumers\" make up the stakeholders of communication policy. In line with this, the inter-relatedness of societal problems using the problematique technique points out that the different sectors of the society should be encouraged to participate in policy-making. In this manner, policy-making becomes participatory in nature.\n\nConsequently, Lagerwey's (1990) assertion on the importance of DevCom as a 'discipline born out of people's need for information and education that brought about planned growth intended for human think critically, cultivate proper attitudes, skills and values, and contribute to the welfare of the community development' paves way for policy scientists to come into picture, utilize these information and communication to improve society's desire for social, economic, and political changes and engage in the decision-making process with sound judgment. As it assists developmental and national goals, the scope of DevCom motivates individuals to become productive and engaged stakeholders.\n\nEradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development (UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs, n.d). In fact, the convening of the high-level representatives and heads of states from the different part of the world that gave birth to the so-called 'Sustainable Development Goals' or SDGs in 2015 seeks to strengthen universal peace in larger freedom, is resolved to free the human race from the tyranny of poverty, heal and secure our planet, and is determined to take the bold and transformative steps which are urgently needed to shift the world onto a sustainable and resilient path.\n\nThe need to translate the principles of policy sciences into the helm of development is a challenge to policy makers. As coined by Harold Lasswell, policy sciences draw on and contribute to all fields of knowledge (PSC, Inc). This is because the variety of problems and issues to which the policy sciences have been applied is vast and thus, helping people make better decisions is the central objective of the policy sciences, it pointed out.\n\nThe history of communication policy-making can be traced back from the rise of telegraphy, telephony and wireless communication. \nAccording to Braman (2003c), the idea originated from the emergence of the bureaucratic welfare state in the late nineteenth century, where telegraph and postal service are prominent. Consequently, problems about technological change comprise the bulk of communication policy (Rowland, 1984). Thus, \"most of the discussions of public policy for the mass media during the past fifteen years have been driven by questions about the role and promises of the \"new technologies\" (Rowland 1984:426).\n\nCommunication policy science involves the communication policy making of an organization intended members of a society, mostly the media consumer. It can initiate media education in the formal or non-formal modes; facilitate in the conduct of research and development outfits; establish a network involving the church, academic, communities and cause-oriented groups; and can be used by politicians as \"think tanks\" serving the government.\n\nCommunication policy pertains to the set of norms established to guide, regulate, and influence the communication processes to include various interpersonal communication activities within the context of various development sectors such as health and education and also the behavior of mass communication media. Such policies do not only guide the behaviors and activities of institutions operating various media channels but also other services and factors involved in interpersonal and social communications.\n\nCommunication policy and media is made for the benefit of the public (McCann, 2013). The public is a social creation that is not biased toward government administrative goals nor individual freedom, but the product that reflects consequences of social, political, and economic considerations we all share (Dewey, 1927). In a study by MCann (2013), she highlights that the general components of public interest should encompass social, political and economic considerations, which are necessary for guiding communications policy. In the same study, McCann proposes an integrative policy model that offers a platform for the analysis of the policy implications and decisions, analyzes the existing policy imposed to achieve diversity goals, and suggests alternative ways of responding to current regulatory challenges in communication policy for strengthening policymaking.\n\n\"Communication policy\" is the merging of two concepts: communication and policy' According to Mwaura (1980) and Udomisor (2009 in Udomisor and Akoje (2013), communication policy refers to the \"sets of principles and norms established to guide the behaviour of communication systems. They are shaped over time in the context of society's general approach to communication and to the media. Emanating from political ideologies, the social and economic conditions of the country and the values on which they are based, they strive to relate these to the real needs for and the prospective opportunities for communication\". A framework that ensures the members and stakeholders of the organization of their roles and responsibilities as fully informed individuals and communication practitioners, this policy reflects not only the communication infrastructure and channel but more on its supporting capability in the 'systematic planning, development and use of the communication system, and its resources and possibilities, and for ensuring that they function efficiently in enhancing national development' (National Resource Management and Environment Department, 2002). Communication policy needs conscious involvement at several levels: Government executive, legislative bodies, authorities in charge of social and economic planning, individual, ministries and their planning boards, communication enterprises, professional organizations, the citizen, the social scientist, and economists.\n\nDigitalisation needs an active communications policy because it will serve as tools for an effective and efficient delivery of service in both the private and public sector. Today, there is an increasing attention to the utilisation of information and communications technology and digital services in the promotion of employment and economic growth.\n\nIn the performance of development communication and policy science studies, a communication policy analysis is developed. The analyst performs proactive posture, focusing on development communication. Several methods were mentioned in the works of Flor (1991) such as: communication technology assessment, social cost benefit analysis, problematique analysis, scenario construction, and policy delphi.\n\nOne of the policy analysis methods discussed by Flor (1991) is the Communication Technology Assessment (CTA) technique which measures the impact of a particular technology to the individuals and society. The result of the assessment serves as the basis for qualifying which technology can be adopted, which ones are constructive, and which are deemed damaging to the society. On the other hand, the Collingridge dilemma questions the impact of technology assessment in general. It argues that we can only predict the effect of technology if they are extensively developed and widely used in the society. However, the implication of such wide testing and application can lead to difficulties in controlling and changing the technology that has already been embedded in the society.\n\nAccording to Flor (1991), Scenario Construction and Analysis could be used in analysing communication policy. Scenario is a description technique that has been attracting a lot of attention from practitioners and from researchers. Several disciplines have been using scenarios for some time now, but recently the information system community has dedicated special attention to the possibilities that this description technique provides to enhance understandability of task-related descriptions and communicability among stakeholders.\n\nScenario construction is an assessment of what could happen in the future based on input assumptions. It is not a prediction of what will happen in the future, and is therefore an ideal tool to use to create thought provoking content in markets and sectors that have many variable influences. A scenario report can be deterministic or stochastic, historical or hypothetical. Analysis based on deterministic scenarios typically considers just a few scenarios which might be historical or hypothetical. Although, scenarios tend to be mostly quantitative, they can be used to develop alternative views of the future that are meant to offer strategic thinking about how a company might best respond to rapid changes in the business environment. These scenarios, developed through an internal and external review process, are qualitative and descriptive.\n\nThe coinage of the terminology \"communication policy research\" was done by Harold D. Lasswell, the founding father of communication science and policy science (Rogers, 1994). Policy-related research flourished after World War II (Braman 2003c:38; McQuail 1994:40). The war encounters resulted to the interest in applying science in the service of transforming society. For Bar and Sandvig (2008:532), the \"history of communication policy is characterized as 'a story of inertia and incrementalism'\".\n\nLasswell asserts that the future progress in communication study rests on the development of a policy focus and on acting as third voice supplying 'a competing appraisal of the images spread by self-serving sources' (Lasswell 1972:307).\n\nSince communication policy research springs forth as a multi-disciplinary field, its focus and framework also largely depends on various forces multi-faceted fields such as sociocultural, political, economic and technological forces. For Lasswell (1970), communication policy research performs twofold functions, first, it concerns the subject(s) of communication policy research and second, it informs communication policy-makers (Harms 1980:5) [touches upon the role of communication policy research in communication policy-making).\n\nRowland (1984:423) defines communication policy research as the \"investigation of those issues centering around the way in which – and – why societies and governments make choices they do regarding the purpose, ownership, control, support and guidance of their media institutions and services\".\n\nKunkel and Farinola (2001:413) claim that research into communication policy traditionally implies studying the policy-making process and examining the patterns and trends in communication policy over the years. It further involves providing pragmatic, action-oriented recommendations and making information available to decision-makers (Majchrzak 1984:12)\nFor these communication researches to be utilized and implemented, a close communicative relationship between the policy researcher and policymaker must exist (Majchrzak, 1984). Aside from the maximization of communication policy research output, the following benefits are also bound to happen if constructive, open, active and productive communication between parties will occur:\n\n\nTo increase the likelihood of research utilization, the communication policy researchers are advised to follow these guidelines when communicating their recommendations (Majchrzak, 1984):\n\n\nThere is a need to bridge research and policy especially the science-policy interface. Research and Policy in Development (RAPID) programme focuses to increase the use of research in development policy. John Young, one of the originators of RAPID, states that \"Research, policy and practice is complex, multifactoral, non-linear, and highly context specific.\" Jones and Walsh (2008) conducted a research which focused on how information is accessed for development policy making. In this work Jones and Walsh (2008) identified 11 major obstacles to making use of available scientific information in development policy making: scientific understanding of policy makers is low, limited openness by politicians, lack of dissemination of research findings, lack of incentives, lack of institutional channels for incorporation, economic and social data more relevant to policy making, scientific research findings not relevant to policy, scientific data not perceived as credible evidence, jargon does not correspond with policy environment, too little scientific information available, and too much scientific information available. McQuail (2003) elucidated that effective policies must adhere to measures and means of implementation (mainly embodied in laws, regulations, self-regulation or market practices).\n\nDimensions of development communication policy science (Bellu, 2011):\n\nSustainable development (SD) is a highly intricate socio-ecological endeavor, for the simple reason that the science-policy interface (SPI) is often underdeveloped or totally non-existent, as the latter is oftentimes unprioritized and neglected at the level of country-level policy-making. The dynamics of science-policy interface for SD policies can be classed into 7 models in a comprehensive typology developed by Kaaronen (2016):\n\n\nThe task of evaluating impacts and outcomes of development communication, or its new form, communication for development (C4D) is as complex as the issues it tries to solve. It requires a shift from the traditional results-based approaches that put premium on accountability to funding institutions to more innovative, complexity-based approaches that allow for greater stakeholder participation. Evaluating C4D calls for more flexible techniques other than the quantitative and linear evaluation approaches.\n\nThe new approach acknowledges the contextual challenges and issues attendant to development interventions. Among the issues identified are\nthe changing information and communication landscape, geographic and cultural barriers, need for compliance to requirements of funding agencies, political instability, among others.\n\nOther issues identified from the survey responses for the Inter-Agency Resource Pack includes insufficiency of time, funding and resources, highlighting the need for more time to design evaluation tools for diverse programs, lack of capacity, awareness of research, evaluation and social change and for designing and implementing M&E, and the prevailing preference for more quantitative approaches even if these are found wanting in surfacing answers to deeper,fundamental questions.\n\nLennie noted that there are also issues with attribution, because impacts cannot readily be attributed to C4D given the complexity of issues, and because the programs are shared by a number of partner agencies working together towards a larger development initiative.\n\n\n\n\n__NOEDITSECTION__\n"}
{"id": "2961270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2961270", "title": "Flemish Sign Language", "text": "Flemish Sign Language\n\nFlemish Sign Language (, VGT) is the deaf sign language of Belgium, a country in Western Europe. It and French Belgian Sign Language are varieties of the same language. The Flemish deaf community is estimated to include approximately 6,000 sign-language users (Loots et al., 2003).\n\nWhen the first deaf schools were established in Flanders, the teachers were directly or indirectly influenced by the methods used at the Paris deaf school (and consequently by French Sign Language); either by following training programs in Paris, or by following training programs in two deaf schools in the Netherlands (Groningen and Sint-Michielsgestel), which were themselves influenced by the Paris school.\n\nHowever, as with neighbouring countries, the education of deaf children was strongly influenced by the resolutions that took place at the Milan Conference in 1880. These resolutions banned the use of signs in the education of deaf children in favour of an oral approach. It has been viewed as a dark day in the history of sign language.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century there was a deaf school in every major town in Flanders, and in some towns there were even two: one for boys and one for girls. Most of the schools were residential and pupils only went home during the holidays, and later on also during the weekends. As a result, regional sign language varieties started to develop around every school.\n\nIt is now generally accepted and confirmed by research, that Flemish Sign Language consists of five regional varieties which have developed in and around the different Flemish deaf schools: \nWest Flanders, East Flanders, Antwerp, Flemish Brabant, and Limburg (De Weerdt et al., 2003).\n\nNext to the differences between the regions, there is intra-regional variation. One example is gender related variation. Until the 1970s, there were separate schools for deaf boys and girls and this has led to gender variation: some of the signs which are generally used today were boys’ signs or girls’ signs in origin. There are more reasons for the relatively high degree of intra-regional variation.\n\nAt the moment there is no standardized sign language in Flanders, although there is an ongoing process of spontaneous standardization (mostly due to increasing contacts between deaf people from different regions).\n\nAnother important aspect influencing the language is the federalization process which has taken place in Belgium along ethnic lines as Flemish or Walloon. Today every Belgian belongs to a certain linguistic group and the same goes for deaf people. Ironically they are also considered Flemish or Walloon, part of the linguistic majority of speakers of Dutch or French, despite the sign language they use and the linguistic minority to which they belong.\n\nThe federalization was a fact in 1993, but this was the result of a long process. In the 1970s, the national deaf federation, NAVEKADOS, split up into a Flemish and a Walloon federation and Fevlado (\"Federatie van Vlaamse Dovenorganisaties\" or the \"Association of Flemish Deaf Organizations\") was founded in 1977.\nAs a result, cultural activities have been organized separately since then, and the Flemish and the Walloon deaf clubs have been subsidized from different sources. Contacts between Flemish and Walloon deaf people have become less and less frequent and this has had its effect on the development of the sign languages in both communities which are deviating from each other as they go through separate standardization processes.\n\nTherefore, the name for the sign language has changed over time from \"Belgian Sign Language\", to \"Flemish-Belgian Sign Language\", to the now preferred \"Flemish Sign Language\" on the Flemish side, and to \"French Belgian Sign Language\" or \"Walloon Sign Language\" on the other.\n\nOn 26 April 2006, the Flemish Parliament unanimously recognised the Flemish Sign Language as a language in Flanders. The decree consists of three major parts:\n\nSince December 2012, the VRT news broadcast is available in the Flemish Sign Language.\n\nThe Flemish Parliament had sign language interpreters for the parliamentary debates while Helga Stevens, who is deaf, was member of the parliament.\n\n\nSome of the major reference works for Flemish Sign Language are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5918095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5918095", "title": "Franco-Seychellois", "text": "Franco-Seychellois\n\nFranco-Seychellois are people of French origin living in the Seychelles. They form the country's second-largest ethnic group .\n\nMany Franco-Seychellois settled on the islands during the period of French rule over the archipelago. During this time, African and Malagasy slaves were also brought to the Seychelles. Franco-Seychellois were allowed to retain their culture after the British took control of the Seychelles.\n\nFranco-Seychellois play an important role in the country's economy. They are employed in all sectors, including government, business and education.\n\nThe majority of Franco-Seychellois speak Seychellois Creole, the country's most widely spoken language. They also often speak French and English. Of the religiously affiliated, the large majority are Roman Catholic, with a minority belonging to other Christian denominations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31445023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31445023", "title": "Germans in the Philippines", "text": "Germans in the Philippines\n\nGerman settlement in the Philippines began during the Colonial era when the German Empire attempted to acquire the Philippines. This article also refers to the choice of Filipino citizenship and/or settlement in the Philippines by persons of either pure or mixed German descent who continued to reside in the country for a significant number of years or decades.\n\nThe first Germans to arrive to the Philippines were colonists. Otto von Bismarck’s Germany was one of the United States' rivals in replacing Spanish rule in the archipelago. From 1890 to the outbreak of the Spanish–American War in 1898, there was a lull in Germany’s colonial campaigns. Like other colonialist nations, Germany sought to protect its overseas nationals and trade interests to the extent of safeguarding free access to markets. A German squadron arrived in Manila and engaged in maneuvers which Commodore George Dewey seeing this as obstruction of his blockade, offered war — after which the Germans backed down.\n\nThe Battle of Manila Bay took place on 1 May 1898, following the outbreak of the Spanish–American War. The German Emperor expected an American defeat, with Spain left in a sufficiently weak position for the revolutionaries to capture Manila—leaving the Philippines ripe for German picking. Following the American victory in the war, the Philippines and the Far East were brought to the attention of the world and Germany recognized the great potentialities of the islands as a major commercial market.\n\nOn 12 June, the day the Philippines declared its independence from Spain, Vice-Admiral Otto von Diederichs arrived in Manila Bay. The number of German war vessels in Philippine waters increased to three. Earlier, on 6 and 9 May, respectively, the German ships \"Irene\" and the \"Cormoran\" arrived in the bay with a separate instruction from the German government, mainly to protect German nationals in Manila. German’s interest in the Philippines was cut short with the signing of the Treaty of Paris on 10 December 1898. The Philippines was finally annexed by the United States in 1899.\n\nThe Philippines was part of the United States between 1898 and 1946. During the era of the Philippine Commonwealth, 1935–1946, Jewish refugees including German Jews from Europe sought a safe haven in Manila. The migration of Jews escaping Europe between 1935 and 1941 was the last major immigration of Jews to the Philippines. The first German Jews to arrive in Manila actually came from the Jewish community in Shanghai. With the occupation of Peking by the Japanese in 1937, the four million inhabitants of Shanghai were endangered. Germany's shift of alliance from China to Japan at this time alarmed German Jews in Shanghai, fearing German pressure on Japan to adopt Nazi anti-Jewish policies. Fearing for them as well, the Jewish Community in Manila, led by the Frieder Brothers of Cincinnati, organized the Jewish Refugee Committee of Manila (JRC) with the intention of rescuing German members of the Shanghai Jewish community.\n\nIn recent years, several German businesses have set up shops in the Philippines, and a number of Germans have chosen the Philippines as their new residence. In the Philippines, since its formation in January 1906, the German Club has provided a place of respite and interaction for Germans and Filipinos alike. In the past century, it has stood witness to the country’s unfolding history and today enjoys the regular patronage of members and guests at its current location in Legaspi Village, Makati City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15123487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15123487", "title": "Gezira Sporting Club", "text": "Gezira Sporting Club\n\nThe Gezira Sporting Club (, transliteration:\"nādī al-ǧazyrah al-reyādī\") is the largest multi-sport facility in Egypt. It was founded in 1882 and was originally called Khedivial Sporting Club. It is located on the island of Zamalek in Cairo.\n\nThe grounds of the Gezira Sporting Club were initially carved out of the \"Khedivial Botanical Gardens\", and as a result acacias and gardens continue to decorate the area. After the land had been formally leased to the British military command in 1882, club rules were licensed and the land was divided into several recreational playing grounds. At first, the club was for the exclusive use of the British Army.\n\nMembership was restricted to applicants elected by the committee, on the recommendation of two members, although British army officers were automatically enrolled. There were about 750 members. The entrance fee was E£ 2. The various subscriptions were as follows:\n\n\nGuests could visit the club whenever accompanied by those members by purchasing Day Passes for 5 piastres.\n\nIn 1906, the club members asked the Egyptian government for ownership, but their request was refused. Instead, they were granted a 60-year lease.\n\nThe exclusive character of the club continued until after World War II. In January 1952, the club was nationalized and became a public club. By this point, most members of the Gezira Sporting Club were Egyptians, but the club's members were from society's elite. As a result of nationalization, the ethos and structure of the club were to be altered during the Nasser regime. Half of its eighteen-hole golf course were given over to a youth club built by the Egyptian government on the club premises (making it a nine-hole course). Much of what was deemed as a traditionally aristocratic asset was nationalized for the benefit of the poorer majority. These actions made the Egyptian president at the time, Gamal Abdel Nasser, loved and popular among the middle and lower classes of Egypt.\n\nDuring Anwar Al Sadat's presidency, a new elevated highway (the 6th October Bridge) was built over the remaining nine-hole golf course and six-furlong racecourse causing the size of the club to further erode.\n\nDespite suffering vandalism, the Gezira Sporting Club still offers most of the sports and games practiced by its founders: golf, tennis, squash, croquet, horse riding and cricket.\n\nWhat had started as a British military club evolved into one of Egypt's greatest outdoor attractions. Over the next five decades Gezira Sporting Club remained both a landmark and one of Cairo's greatest assets continuing to this day.\n\nAs of 2012, membership was estimated to consist of 43,000 families.\n\n\nThe 125-year-old par 70 golf course was the first in Egypt, and was once its best. Before the Nasser Era, it was an 18-hole course used only by British nationals.\n\nSince 1907, Gezira Sporting Club has been the official home of Egypt's lawn tennis with open tournaments and championships regularly held on its clay courts. From 1925, international celebrities took part in these widely attended events as it staged the International Championships of Egypt.\n\nDespite the launch of the Egyptian Lawn Tennis Association Championship in 1934, Gezira Sporting Club continued to offer its two cups:\n\n\nThe Gezira swimming team was founded in the early 20th century. Now is one of the stronger swimming teams in the Egyptian Premier National Championships. It is ranked 13th out of 33 clubs.\n\nThere are currently around forty sports played in Gezira Sporting Club. Some are:\n\nLike other large clubs in Egypt, the Gezira Sporting Club is currently in the process of building another branch. The planned location is in the 6th of October City. The club had signed a contract for of land and construction has started.\n"}
{"id": "4811624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4811624", "title": "Gimma people", "text": "Gimma people\n\nGimma are an ethnic group of Northern Sudan. Most of the members of this group are Muslims. The number of persons in this group is above 100,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "838731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838731", "title": "Goldenberg scandal", "text": "Goldenberg scandal\n\nThe Goldenberg scandal was a political scandal where the Kenyan government was found to have subsidised exports of gold far beyond standard arrangements during the 1990s, by paying the company Goldenberg International 35% more (in Kenyan shillings) than their foreign currency earnings. Although it notionally appears that the scheme was intended to earn hard currency for the country, it is estimated to have cost Kenya the equivalent of more than 10% of the country's annual Gross Domestic Product, and it is possible that no or minimal amounts of gold were actually exported. The scandal appears to have involved political corruption at the highest levels of the government of Daniel Arap Moi. Officials in the former government of Mwai Kibaki have also been implicated.\n\nSimilar to most countries, Kenya encourages international trade by granting tax-free status to commercial enterprises involved in the export of goods and sometimes subsidises these exports. The Goldenberg scandal was based on the fact that exporters who deposited US$ earnings with the Kenya central bank received in exchange the equivalent in Kenyan shillings plus 20 percent.\n\nHowever, gold mining represented a tiny portion of Kenya's GDP, with only one operational gold mine (at Kakamega). Goldenberg International therefore developed a scheme of smuggling gold into Kenya from Congo, so that they could legally export it at the higher export price offered by the Kenyan government.\n\nThe chief architect behind the scheme was a relative of the Kenyan businessman Kamlesh Pattni. However, it was Pattni who established Goldenberg International to implement the scheme. Almost all the politicians in the Moi government and a considerable percentage of the Kibaki government have been accused. The judicial system also appears to have been deeply involved, with twenty-three of Kenya's senior judges resigning after evidence indicated their involvement.\n\nThe scheme began in 1991, almost immediately after the Kenya government, following directions from the IMF, introduced measures to reform the economy and increase international trade and investment, and seems to have stopped in 1993 when it was exposed by a whistleblower, David Munyakei. As a result of this, Munyakei was fired from his position at the Central Bank of Kenya, and remained largely unemployed until his death in 2006. There have been two investigations on the scam, one under the Moi government and the other under the current government. The gold, if there was any, was likely imported from Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nOn 3 February 2006, following an investigation under the Kibaki government, a report by Mr Justice Bosire recommended that the Education Minister at that time, Prof. George Saitoti should face criminal charges for his actions and that former President Daniel arap Moi should be further investigated. Saitoti was both vice-president and finance minister under Moi in the early 1990s. On 13 February Saitoti's resignation was announced by President Kibaki in a television address.\n\nThe report said that records presented at the inquiry showed that Lima Ltd, which is associated with Mr Gideon Moi, Mr Nicholas Biwott, and two other people received Sh6.3 million from Goldenberg. However, the Commission concluded that in respect of Nicholas Biwott, who had not been in government at the time, \"no moneys of Goldenberg were involved\", the matter was outside the terms of reference and the commission could enquire into it.\n\nThe report also said Sh158.3 billion of Goldenberg money was transacted with 487 companies and individuals. A list of exhibits compiled by the commission puts Goldenberg International Ltd at the top of the primary recipients of the money, at Sh35.3 billion. The directors of Goldenberg were named as Mr Pattni and Mr Kanyotu. Although Mr Kanyotu was the director of the Special Branch (intelligence unit of the Kenya Police, now known as National Intelligence Services, NIS) and a director of First American Bank, he described himself as a farmer in Goldenberg documents. President Moi was named by Mr Pattni as having been a shareholder of GIL by nominee. However, President Moi himself was never called to present evidence despite this alleged link.\n\nIn response to a query by Joseph Lekuton, on 16 December 2008, Orwa Ojode the Assistant Minister for Provincial Administration and Internal Security confirmed to parliament that the commission had cost the Kenya Government Kshs 511,569,409.90.\n\nShortly after, Saitoti along with 20 several others suspected to be involved in the scandal were prohibited from leaving the country and ordered to surrender any weapons they possessed. Among those named were\n\n\nFormer president Moi himself was not listed.\n\nThe Law Society of Kenya chairman Tom Ojienda criticised Police Commissioner Hussein Ali's move to seize travel documents. He described the decisions as \"a total violation of the law and the Constitution\". Ojienda regretted that individuals had been charged, tried and convicted by the court of public opinion and the media or through political statements. He commended three Cabinet ministers who resigned to pave way for investigations into the Anglo Leasing and Goldenberg scandals. \"The resignation of three members of Cabinet signifies the maturity of our democracy, where leaders whose reputations are besmirched would opt to resign pending investigations to clear their names rather than hold the Government hostage. Such resignations are no pointers to guilt.\"\n\nTwo transactions stand out – one for Sh5.8 billion from the Central Bank to Goldenberg International in 1993, personally authorised by then-president Daniel Arap Moi, and another for Sh13.5 billion. The then CID director Joseph Kamau told reporters on 9 March 2006 that files on Pattni, Kanyotu, Koinange, Kotut, Bii, Riungu and Werunga had been passed to attorney-general Amos Wako. Wako has been attorney-general since 1991, when Moi was in power.\n\nWako is recommending that the country's chief justice consider overturning a previous court order exempting Mr Saitoti from prosecution. All except Werunga are to be charged. The prosecution hopes that Werunga will be their witness.\n\nIn August 2006 it was reported that a constitutional court had ruled that Saitoti could not be charged. The Kenyan media reacted negatively to the decision. The Kenya Times saw political motives behind it, while The Daily Nation editorialised that the \"War on graft is, indeed, lost\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13536634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536634", "title": "Green company", "text": "Green company\n\nA green company claims to act in a way which minimizes damage to the environment.\n\nAs global warming continues apace and becomes an increasingly prevalent topic amongst world governments, many companies are doing their part to become environmentally more responsible or \"green\".\n\nA number of major auto companies have developed alternative fuel vehicles and all-electric vehicles in a move to reduce petroleum consumption. Technologies include compressed natural gas, Fuel cell vehicles, Battery electric vehicles, and Hybrid electric vehicles.\n\nThe environmental impact of aviation is significant, though a number of companies are working on mitigation of aviation's environmental impact through new technologies including aviation biofuel.\n\nPella, Masonite, Marvin, Jeld-Wen and other top door manufacturers claim that their entry doors meet Energy Star requirements. Entry doors represent an important source of energy waste in buildings. Ultimately, doors are an important cause of carbon emissions (buildings account for about 41% of our primary energy consumption and an almost equivalent amount of CO2 emissions).\n\nSuncor, a Canadian-based oil company, was named a top performer among 23 global petroleum-producing firms with its environmentally responsible greenhouse gas management programs.\n\nS.C. Johnson Company, maker of household items such as Windex and Ziploc plastic bags was environmentally aware long before it became popular to be so. Using its innovative \"Greenlist\" process which serves to evaluate what environmental impact certain raw materials used in producing its products can have, S.C. Johnson has been able to eliminate some 1.8 million pounds of volatile organic compounds and 4 million pounds of polyvinylidene chloride from commonly used household items.\n\nIn 2009, Atlanta's Virginia-Highland became the first carbon-neutral zone in the United States. This partnership, developed by Verus Carbon Neutral, links 17 merchants of the historic Corner Virginia-Highland shopping and dining neighborhood retail district, through the Chicago Climate Exchange, to directly fund the Valley Wood Carbon Sequestration Project (thousands of acres of forest in rural Georgia).\n\nSupporters of green companies claim that it is far more economical to go green than it is to continue adding harmful chemicals to the atmosphere and the environment in general.\n\nOpponents believe that the environmental claims of \"green companies\" are often exaggerated and have variously raised accusations of greenwashing. In 2013, The Coca-Cola Company was accused of greenwashing, after marketing a new line of plastic bottles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1417294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1417294", "title": "Gẹlẹdẹ", "text": "Gẹlẹdẹ\n\nThe Gẹlẹdẹ spectacle of the Yoruba is a public display by colorful masks which combines art and ritual dance to amuse, educate and inspire worship. Gelede celebrates “Mothers” (\"awon iya wa\"), a group that includes female ancestors and deities as well as the elderly women of the community, and the power and spiritual capacity these women have in society. However, this power may also be destructive and take the form of witchcraft; therefore, Gelede serves the function of appeasing this power, as well.\n\nThe Gelede social agenda rests on the Yoruba maxim \"Eso l'aye\" (The world is fragile). In other words, life is delicate and should be lived with caution and with an emphasis on diplomacy, consideration, respect and harmony.\n\nMost Yoruba myths of origin can be found in the divination narratives knows at Odu Ifa. There are approximately 256 Odu Ifa, each of which contains a number of poems called ese Ifa. A typical ese Ifa is a narrative about a person or animal with a problem and the steps to resolve that problem. An ese Ifa explains the origins of Gelede as beginning with Yemoja, \"The Mother of all the orisa and all living things.\" Yemoja could not have children and consulted an Ifa oracle, who advised her to offer sacrifices and to dance with wooden images on her head and metal anklets on her feet. After performing this ritual, she became pregnant. Her first child was a boy, nicknamed \"Efe\" (the humorist); the Efe mask emphasizes song and jests because of the personality of its namesake. Yemoja's second child was a girl, nicknamed \"Gelede\" because she was obese like her mother. Also like her mother, Gelede loved dancing.\n\nAfter getting married themselves, neither Gelede or Efe's partner could have children. The Ifa oracle suggested they try the same ritual that had worked for their mother. No sooner than Efe and Gelede performed these rituals- dancing with wooden images on their heads and metal anklets on their feet- they started having children. These rituals developed into the Gelede masked dance and was perpetuated by the descendants of Efe and Gelede.\n\nThis narrative is one of many stories that explains the origin of Gelebe. An outdated theory states that the beginning of Gelede might be associated with the change from a matriarchal to a patriarchal society.\n\nAlthough Gelede ceremony may be staged at any time of the year (to better the lot of an individual, to cleanse the society of pestilence, to induce rain, to enrich human fertility, to enlist the support of supernatural forces and the \"powerful mothers\" in wartime, and to honor the dead), the most elaborate performance occurs during the annual festival.\n\nOnce the exact dates of the festival are fixed, usually through divination, the Iyalase notifies the head of the community and the important chiefs. Messages then go out to all members of the Gelede society outside the town or working far away to return home for the celebration.\n\nThe festival begins with an all-night concert called efe, which features the Efe male mask, who uses satire to entertain and educate. Given the concern of the Gelede society with peace and social stability, it is not surprising that didactic themes recur in \"efe\" songs.\n\nAfter the efe dance, most of the attendees spend the morning sleeping in preparation for the afternoon dance, which takes place in the marketplace and features pairs of male dancers who perform to fast-paced music with a vigorous beat.\n\nThe Gelede ceremony involves carefully choreographed dance, singing and music, and especially drumming. The performances are given by men, wearing masks that feature sculpted images of scenes including animals and people or sewing machines and drums. The pairs of men masquerade as women to amuse, please and placate the mothers who are considered very powerful, and who may use their powers for good or destructive purposes. These powers are especially linked to childbirth. The abilities they possess may be activated either consciously or unconsciously.\n\nGelede masks are worn with a costume consisting of layers of elaborate, colorful cloth.\n\nThe Gelede \"mask\" is more accurately a headdress, since it rests on top of the head and the wearer's face is covered by a cloth veil. The headdress takes the form of a human head, on top of which are motifs that are intended to entertain onlookers but, in addition, usually address social concerns that may also be expressed in songs that are part of the masquerade. The headdresses are usually brightly painted.\n\nIndividuals or families will usually go to any length to make their headdresses as attractive and humorous as possible. The endless variety of the motifs and their combinations makes it difficult to attempt to construct a typology of Gelede headdresses.\n\nMost of the headdresses have facial adornments, ranging from lineage marks to decorative tattoos, which are either incised or painted.\n\nBabatunde Lawal writes: \"The headdress is to the costume what the head (ori) is to the human body. It is an index of identification and the essence of the masker's personality as long as he is inside the mask. In spite of the comical representations that often appear on the headdress, the face below the superstructure remains serene, as if stressing the paradox that is life-and the need to live life with special care.\"\n"}
{"id": "18879927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18879927", "title": "Harika Dronavalli", "text": "Harika Dronavalli\n\nHarika Dronavalli (born 12 January 1991) is an Indian chess grandmaster. She has won three bronze medals in the Women's World Chess Championship, in 2012, 2015 and 2017. Dronavalli was honored with the Arjuna Award for the year 2007–08 by the government of India.\n\nIn 2016, she won the FIDE Women’s Grand Prix event at Chengdu, China and rose up from world no. 11 to world no. 5 in FIDE women’s ranking.\n\nVladimir Kramnik, Judit Polgar and Viswanathan Anand are her chess heroes. She was a student of Sri Venkateswara Bala Kuteer, Guntur, Andhra Pradesh.\n\nHarika was born to Mr. Ramesh and Mrs. Swarna on January 12, 1991 in Guntur. Her father, Ramesh, works as a deputy executive engineer at a Panchayat Raj subdivision in Mangalagiri. She took keen interest in chess at a very small age. She won a medal in under-9 national championship. She followed it up with a silver medal in world youth chess championship for under-10 girls. That's when she approached her coach NVS Ramaraju, who refined her game. She became the second Indian woman to become a grandmaster, after Humpy Koneru\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59038603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59038603", "title": "Hawe familicide", "text": "Hawe familicide\n\nOn August 29 2016, a murder-suicide took place close to the town of Ballyjamesduff in County Cavan, Ireland. A family of five consisting of three young boys, Ryan, Niall and Liam, their mother Clodagh and their father Alan were all found dead inside a house in Oakdene at approximately 11:00 am. At 10:45 am Clodagh's mother called to the house and contacted Garda Síochána to raise the alarm. The family were identified as the Hawe Family.It was later determined that Alan Hawe, the owner of the home, had committed the murder. He had stabbed his wife and three children with various knives before hanging himself. This was met by immediate shock, as Alan was deemed a pillar in the community, a deputy principal and teacher at a local primary school who helped out with the local GAA club. Hawe had written a note, asking whoever were to knock at the door to not common but rather ring the Gardaí.\n\nThe inquest into the deaths took place in December 2017. Psychiatrist Harry Kennedy concluded that Alan Hawe was suffering from severe depression and had been going through a psychotic episode at the time of the killings.\n"}
{"id": "48515141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48515141", "title": "Henry Debosnys", "text": "Henry Debosnys\n\nHenry Debosnys (born 1836 in Lisbon, Portugal; died April 28, 1883 in Essex County, New York) was hanged for murder of his third wife, Elizabeth Wells. His skull is on display at the Adirondack History Center Museum in Elizabethtown, New York.\n\nDebosnys left enciphered documents, that have never been decrypted, using a cryptographic script (or scripts) and/or pictograms.\n\n"}
{"id": "19391193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19391193", "title": "History of pathology", "text": "History of pathology\n\nThe history of pathology can be traced to the earliest application of the scientific method to the field of medicine, a development which occurred in the Middle East during the Islamic Golden Age and in Western Europe during the Italian Renaissance.\n\nEarly systematic human dissections were carried out by the Ancient Greek physicians Herophilus of Chalcedon and Erasistratus of Chios in the early part of the third century BC. The first physician known to have made postmortem dissections was the Arabian physician Avenzoar (1091–1161). Rudolf Virchow (1821–1902) is generally recognized to be the father of microscopic pathology. Most early pathologists were also practicing physicians or surgeons.also see Egyptian mummification as pre modern necropsy might suggest as early embalming and post mortem organ removal.\n\nEarly understanding of the origins of diseases constitutes the earliest application of the scientific method to the field of medicine, a development which occurred in the Middle East during the Islamic Golden Age and in Western Europe during the Italian Renaissance.\n\nThe Greek physician Hippocrates, the founder of scientific medicine, was the first to deal with the anatomy and the pathology of human spine. Galen developed an interest in anatomy from his studies of Herophilus and Erasistratus. The concept of studying disease through the methodical dissection and examination of diseased bodies, organs, and tissues may seem obvious today, but there are few if any recorded examples of true autopsies performed prior to the second millennium. Though the pathology of contagion was understood by Muslim physicians since the time of Avicenna (980–1037) who described it in \"The Canon of Medicine\" (c. 1020), the first physician known to have made postmortem dissections was the Arabian physician Avenzoar (1091–1161) who proved that the skin disease scabies was caused by a parasite, followed by Ibn al-Nafis (b. 1213) who used dissection to discover pulmonary circulation in 1242. In the 15th century, anatomic dissection was repeatedly used by the Italian physician Antonio Benivieni (1443-1502) to determine cause of death. Antonio Benivieni is also credited with having introduced necropsy to the medical field. Perhaps the most famous early gross pathologist was Giovanni Morgagni (1682-1771). His magnum opus, \"De Sedibus et Causis Morborum per Anatomem Indagatis\", published in 1761, describes the findings of over 600 partial and complete autopsies, organised anatomically and methodically correlated with the symptoms exhibited by the patients prior to their demise. Although the study of normal anatomy was already well advanced at this date, \"De Sedibus\" was one of the first treatises specifically devoted to the correlation of diseased anatomy with clinical illness. By the late 1800s, an exhaustive body of literature had been produced on the gross anatomical findings characteristic of known diseases. The extent of gross pathology research in this period can be epitomized by the work of the Viennese pathologist (originally from Hradec Kralove in the Czech Rep.) Carl Rokitansky (1804-1878), who is said to have performed 20,000 autopsies, and supervised an additional 60,000, in his lifetime.\n\nRudolf Virchow (1821-1902) is generally recognized to be the father of microscopic pathology. While the compound microscope had been invented approximately 150 years prior, Virchow was one of the first prominent physicians to emphasize the study of manifestations of disease which were visible only at the cellular level. A student of Virchow's, Julius Cohnheim (1839-1884) combined histology techniques with experimental manipulations to study inflammation, making him one of the earliest experimental pathologists. Cohnheim also pioneered the use of the frozen section procedure; a version of this technique is widely employed by modern pathologists to render diagnoses and provide other clinical information intraoperatively.\n\nAs new research techniques, such as electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and molecular biology have expanded the means by which biomedical scientists can study disease, the definition and boundaries of investigative pathology have become less distinct. In the broadest sense, nearly all research which links manifestations of disease to identifiable processes in cells, tissues, or organs can be considered experimental pathology.\n\n"}
{"id": "54602493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54602493", "title": "History of the Catholic Church and homosexuality", "text": "History of the Catholic Church and homosexuality\n\nThe Christian tradition has generally proscribed any and all noncoital genital activities, whether engaged in by couples or individuals, regardless of whether they were of the same or different sex. This position has been maintained through the centuries by the Roman Catholic Church, to the present day. The Catholic Church's position specifically on homosexuality developed from the teachings of the Church Fathers, which was in stark contrast to Greek and Roman attitudes towards same-sex relations. \n\nCanon law regarding same-sex sexual activity has mainly been shaped through the decrees issued by a number of ecclesiastical councils. Initially, canons against \"sodomy\" were aimed simply at ensuring clerical or monastic discipline; and were only later widened in the medieval period to include laymen. By the Middle Ages, the Catholic clergy increasingly encourage the pious to hunt out those committing homosexual acts, and to hand them over to secular authorities for punishment. In Spain the Inquisition tried nearly a thousand individuals for sodomy, and a number were executed.\n\nThe Catholic Church's position specifically on homosexuality developed from the teachings of the Church Fathers, which was in stark contrast to Greek and Roman attitudes towards same-sex relations including the \"(usually erotic) homosexual relationship between an adult male and a pubescent or adolescent male\" that is called pederasty.\n\nThe early 2nd century treatise, the \"Didache\" (which influenced thinking by some of the Church Fathers), includes in a list of commandments: \"You shall not corrupt boys.\" David F. Greenberg gives it as one example of the early Christian writings of the first two centuries that were \"unequivocably opposed to male prostitution and pederasty — probably the most visible forms of homosexuality in their time\".\n\nClement of Alexandria (c. 150–c. 215) rebuked heathens for worshipping gods who indulged in debauching of boys. Eusebius of Caesarea (c. 260/265–339/340) wrote of God \"having forbidden all unlawful marriage, and all unseemly practice, and the union of women with women and men with men\".\n\nThe \"Apology\" of Aristides of Athens, presented to Emperor Hadrian around 117–138 CE, scorned the practices and acts of the Greek pagans who worshipped gods some of whom \"polluted themselves by lying with males\".\n\nBasil of Caesarea (329 or 330 – 379) was among the first to talk about penalties, advising in a letter that, \"He who is guilty of unseemliness with males will be under discipline for the same time as adulterers.\" Taking Basil's lead, Gregory of Nyssa's Canonical Letter to Letoius of Mytilene (Epist. canonica 4, 390 CE) also prescribes the same period of penance for adultery and for \"craving for the male\".\n\nJohn Chrysostom (c. 347–407), the Archbishop of Constantinople, was particularly vocal on the subject - loathing homosexuality. His most notable discourse in this regard is his fourth homily on , where he argues that those who have sex with the same gender must do so because they are insane: \"All of these affections then were vile, but chiefly the mad lust after males; for the soul is more the sufferer in sins, and more dishonored than the body in diseases. ... [The men] have done an insult to nature itself. And a yet more disgraceful thing than these is it, when even the women seek after these intercourses, who ought to have more shame than men.\" He went on to describe homosexuality as the worst of sins (greater than murder). Punishment will be found in hell for such transgressors, and that women can be guilty of the sin as much as men (although the former disrupt the patriarchal hierarchy through such as act). Chrysostom argues that the male passive partner has effectively renounced his manhood and become a woman – such an individual deserves to be \"driven out and stoned\". Chrysostom was particularly influential in shaping early Christian thought that same-sex desire was an evil that ultimately resulted in social injustice – altering the traditional interpretation of Sodom as a place of inhospitality, to one where the sexual transgressions of the Sodomites became paramount. Allen describes the sermon as the \"climax and consummation of homophobia in the late classical world\".\n\nCanon law regarding same-sex sexual activity has mainly been shaped through the decrees issued by a number of ecclesiastical councils. Initially, canons against sodomy were aimed at ensuring clerical or monastic discipline, and were only widened in the medieval period to include laymen.\n\nThe early 4th-century Council of Elvira (305-306) was the first church council to deal with the issue directly, excluding from communion anyone who had sexual intercourse (\"stuprum\") with a boy:\n\nCanons 16 and 17 of the Council of Ancyra (314), which \"became the standard source for medieval ecclesiastical literature against homosexuality\", impose on \"those who have been or who are guilty of bestial lusts\" penances whose severity varies with the age and married status of the offender, allowing access to communion only at death for a married man over fifty years old (canon 16); and impose a penance also on \"defilers of themselves with beasts, being also leprous, who have infected others [with the leprosy of this crime]\".\n\nIn the sixth century, the Greek chronicler John Malalas wrote about Isaiah, Bishop of Rhodes and Alexander, Bishop of Diospolis who had been punished by the Prefect of Thrace (Victor) for \"homosexual practices\". Isaiah was tortured severely and exiled, while Alexander had his genitals amputated and was subsequently paraded around the city on a litter. As a result the Christian Emperor Justinian (c.e 482 – 565) decreed that all caught for pederasty should have their genitals amputated. Many homosexual men were arrested in the wake of this, and died from their injuries. An atmosphere of fear followed.\n\nIn Iberia, the Visigothic ruler Egica of Hispania and Septimania demanded that a church council confront the occurrence of homosexuality in the kingdom. In 693, the Sixteenth Council of Toledo issued a canon condemning guilty clergy to degradation and exile and laymen to a hundred lashes. Egica added an edict imposing the punishment of castration (as already in the secular law promulgated for his kingdom by his predecessor King Chinawith).\n\nThe matter was also dealt with at the Council of Paris—in canons 34 and 69 (AD 829), which went beyond Elvira and Ancyra in explicitly endorsing the death penalty for sodomy—claiming that it had led God to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah and send the Great Flood The concern at Paris was that toleration of sodomy might provoke God to give victory to the enemies of Christianity (i.e. Islam). At about the same time, the set of forged capitularies produced by the deacon Benedict Levita implied that Charlemagne had likewise supported the death penalty. Meanwhile canon 15 of the Council of Trolsy (AD 909) warned against \"pollution with men or animals\".\n\nAlongside this, penances for such sexual transgressions may increasingly be found in a few of the penitential books which first emerged in the 6th century in monastic communities in Ireland (including for women having sex with other women).\n\nBy the late Middle Ages, the term \"sodomy\" had come to cover copulation between males, bestiality, and non-vaginal heterosexual intercourse, coitus interruptus, masturbation, fellatio and anal sex (whether heterosexual or homosexual); and it increasingly began to be identified as the most heinous of sins by authorities of the Catholic Church. In Italy, Dominican monks would encourage the pious to \"hunt out\" sodomites and once done to hand them to the Inquisition to be dealt with accordingly: \"These clerical discourses provided a language for secular authorities to condemn sodomy... By persecuting sodomites as well as heretics, the Church strengthened its authority and credibility as a moral arbiter\".\n\nKlaits writes: \"From the twelfth century on, outsiders came under increasing verbal and physical attack from churchmen, allied secular authorities, and, particularly in the case of Jews, from the lower strata of the population\"; and among \"outsiders\" he considers Jews, heretics, homosexuals, and magicians as having been among the most important.\n\nPope Leo IX (d. 1054) labeled homosexuality \"filthy\", \"execrable vice\" and \"obscene\". Likewise around 1051, Saint Peter Damian wrote the \"Liber Gomorrhianus\" in which he argued for stricter ecclesiastical punishment for clerics guilty of \"sins against nature\".\n\nThe Council of London in 1102 in 1102, called at the urging of English Archbishop Anselm of Canterbury, explicitly denounced homosexual behavior as a sin for the first time at an English council. Anselm felt that sodomy was widespread and was not condemned strongly enough or regarded with the seriousness that it should have. Confessors were urged to take account of such ignorance when hearing confessions for sodomy, and to take into account mitigating factors such as age and marital status before prescribing penance; and counselling was generally preferred to punishment. In Canons 28 and 29 the Council decreed that the people should be informed of the gravity of the sin, and their obligation to confess (particularly if they derived pleasure from it). Nevertheless, Anselm deferred publication of the proceedings, arguing further time was needed to clarify certain matters. Boswell argues the decrees were never published at all.\n\nIn 1179, Pope Alexander III presided over the Third Lateran Council in Rome which decreed (canon 11) that all those guilty of sodomy be removed from office or confined to penitential life in a monastery, if clergy; and be strictly excommunicated, if laity: \"Let all who are found guilty of that unnatural vice for which the wrath of God came down upon the sons of disobedience and destroyed the five cities with fire, if they are clerics be expelled from the clergy or confined in monasteries to do penance; if they are laymen they are to incur excommunication and be completely separated from the society of the faithful.\" The French theologian Alain de Lille (d. 1202) echoed the punishment of Sodom and Gomorrah in his works - complaining that \"such a great body of foul men roam and riot along the breadth of the whole earth\", spreading perversion and impurity with \"monstrous acts\" endangering the wider community.\n\nAt the same time, the German Abbess Hildegard of Bingen (d.1179), in her book \"Scivias\" detailing her visions which she attributed to God, condemned same-sex intercourse (including lesbianism): \"A man who sins with another man as if with a woman sins bitterly against God ... a woman who takes up devilish ways and plays a male role in coupling with another woman is most vile in My sight, and so is she who subjects herself to such a one in this evil deed\".\n\nCanon 14 of the Fourth Lateran Council in 1215 stated that if a priest suspended for unchastity of any kind — especially the vice that \"on account of which the anger of God came from heaven upon the children of unbelief\" (sodomy) — dared to celebrate Mass then he was to be deposed permanently from the priesthood.\n\nBy the early 13th century (time of the Fourth Lateran Council) the Church determined that \"secular authorities, as well as clergy, should be allowed to impose penalties on 'sodomites' for having had sexual relations\", and by the end of this period, \"Sodomites were now [regarded as] demons as well as sinners.\" Civil authorities were in parallel trying the crime of sodomy in their own courts, although in practice applying even more severe punishments (Roman civil law had prescribed death by burning for those found guilty of sodomy).\n\nIn 1232, Pope Gregory IX established the Roman Inquisition which investigated claims of sodomy - arguing that sodomites were \"abominable persons despised by the world... more unclean than animals\". \n\nIn the \"Summa Theologica\", Thomas Aquinas stated that \"the unnatural vice\" is the greatest of the sins of lust. In his \"Summa contra Gentiles\", traditionally dated to 1264, he argued against what he called \"the error of those who say that there is no more sin in the emission of the semen than in the ejection of other superfluous products from the body\" by saying that, after murder, which destroys an existing human being, disordinate emission of semen to the preclusion of generating a human being seems to come second.\n\nAlongside this, the German Dominican Albertus Magnus described homosexuality as a \"foulness\" that was both addictive and contagious. \n\nIn 1424, Bernardino of Siena preached for three days in Florence, Italy against homosexuality and other forms of lust, calling for sodomites to be ostracized, and these sermons alongside measures by other clergy of the time strengthened opinion against homosexuals and encouraged the authorities to increase the measures of persecution.\n\nIn 1451, Pope Nicholas V enabled the Inquisition to prosecute men who practiced sodomy. Handed over to the civil authorities, those condemned were frequently burned in accordance with civil law.\n\nIn 1478, with the papal bull \"Exigit Sinceras Devotionis Affectus\", Pope Sixtus IV acceded to the request of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, granting them exclusive authority to name the inquisitors in their kingdoms. The Spanish Inquisition thus replaced the Medieval Inquisition which had been set up under direct papal control, and transferred it in Spain to civil control. In 1482, in response to complaints by relatives of the first victims, Sixtus wrote that he had not intended his grant to be abused in that way. However, strong pressure brought to bear on him prevented him from revoking it.\nThe Tribunal of the Holy Office of the Inquisition in Spain was therefore under the control of its monarchs and the initial direction of the Dominican friar Tomas de Torquemada. At first it seems to have been reluctant to take on responsibility for trying those accused of sodomy, and that the Suprema (the governing body) ruled in 1509 that such cases were for the secular courts, which already punished sodomy with death. However, in 1524 the Suprema requested papal authorisation to prosecute sodomites. Pope Clement VII granted permission but only within the Kingdom of Aragon and on condition that trials be conducted according to the civil laws, not the standard inquisitorial procedure. The Pope refused the request of King Philip II of Spain to extend the authority of the Spanish Inquisition to conducting such trials in the rest of Spain.\n\nWithin Aragon and its dependent territories, the number of individuals that the Spanish Inquisition tried for sodomy, between 1570 and 1630 was over 800 or nearly a thousand. In Spain, those whom the Spanish Inquisition convicted and had executed \"by burning without the benefit of strangulation\" were about 150. The Inquisition was harsh to sodomizers (more so for those committing bestiality than homosexuality), but tended to restrict death by burning only to those aged over twenty-five. Minors were normally whipped and sent to the galleys. Mildness was also shown to clergy, who were always a high proportion of those arrested. In fact, conviction and execution for sodomy was easier to obtain from the civil courts in other parts of Spain than from the tribunals of the Inquisition in Aragon, and there executions for sodomy were much more numerous. After 1633, where the Spanish Inquisition had jurisdiction for sodomy, it ceased treating it as requiring execution, and imposed lesser penalties in cases brought before it.\n\nThe Portuguese Inquisition was established in 1536; and in 1539 Henry, Archbishop of Braga (later cardinal and king of Portugal) became Grand Inquisitor. (An earlier appointment as Portuguese Grand Inquisitor was Friar Diogo da Silva.) It received 4,419 denunciations against individuals accused of sodomy, of whom 447 were subjected to a formal trial, and thirty were burnt at the stake, in accordance with the pre-1536 civil laws enacted under Kings Afonso V and Manuel I, and many others were sent to the galleys or to exile, temporary or permanent.\n\nIn England, the accused were originally tried by church courts, which almost never punished homosexual behaviour. This changed when Henry VIII, while still a member of the Roman Catholic Church, enacted the Buggery Act 1533, as part of his campaign to break the power of the Catholic Church in England.\n\nAlthough homosexuality was not directly discussed at the Council of Trent, it did commission the drawing up of a catechism (following the successful lead of some Protestants) which stated: \"Neither fornicators nor adulterers, nor the effeminate nor sodomites shall possess the kingdom of God.\"\n\nNeither the First Vatican Council nor the Second Vatican Council directly discussed the issue of homosexuality; but nor did they alter the judgement of earlier councils. However, homosexual activity was frequently referred to in general church documents as \"crimen pessimum\" (the worst crime). including that codified in 1917.\n\nIn 1976 Pope Paul VI became the first pontiff in modern history to deny the accusation of homosexuality. In January 1976, he had published a homily, \"Persona Humana: Declaration on Certain Questions concerning Sexual Ethics\", that outlawed pre or extra-marital sex, condemned homosexuality, and forbade masturbation. In response, Roger Peyrefitte, who had already written in two of his books that Montini had a longtime homosexual relationship, repeated his charges in a magazine interview with a French gay magazine that, when reprinted in Italian, brought the rumors to a wider public and caused an uproar. He said that Montini was a hypocrite who had a longtime sexual relationship with a movie actor. Widespread rumors identified the actor as Paolo Carlini, who had a small part in the Audrey Hepburn film \"Roman Holiday\" (1953). In a brief address to a crowd of approximately 20,000 in St. Peters Square on 18 April, Montini called the charges \"horrible and slanderous insinuations\" and appealed for prayers on his behalf. Special prayers for Montini were said in all Italian Roman Catholic churches in \"a day of consolation\". The charges have resurfaced periodically. In 1994, Franco Bellegrandi, a former Vatican honour chamberlain and correspondent for the Vatican newspaper \"L'Osservatore Romano\", alleged that Montini had been blackmailed and had promoted fellow homosexuals to positions of power within the Vatican. In 2006, the newspaper \"L'Espresso\" confirmed the blackmail story based on the private papers of police commander General Giorgio Manes. It reported that Italian Prime Minister Aldo Moro had been asked to help.\n\nHomosexuality received no mention in papal encyclicals until Pope John Paul II's \"Veritatis Splendor\" of 1993, which \"specifically proclaims the intrinsic evil of the homosexual condition\" and rejected the view of some theologians who questioned the basis upon which the church condemns as morally unacceptable \"direct sterilization, autoeroticism, pre-marital sexual relations, homosexual relations and artificial insemination\".\n\nJohn Cornwell has written that the pontificate of John Paul II increasingly saw sexual morality as a paramount concern, and homosexuality, alongside contraception, divorce and illicit unions, as a dimension of \"the 'culture of death' against which he taught and preached with increasing vehemence\".\n\nIn John Paul II's teaching, homosexual intercourse is regarded as an utilization of another's body, not a mutual self-giving in familial love, physically expressed by the masculine and feminine bodies; and such intercourse is also performed by a choice of the will, unlike homosexual orientation, which he acknowledged is usually not a matter of free choice.\n\nOn 5 October 1979, John Paul praised the bishops of the United States for stating that \"homosexual activity ... as distinguished from homosexual orientation, is morally wrong\". He said that, instead of \"[holding] out false hope\" to homosexuals facing hard moral problems, they had upheld \"the true dignity, the true human dignity, of those who look to Christ's Church for the guidance which comes from the light of God's word\".\n\nIn 2000, he criticized the inaugural WorldPride event scheduled for Rome in that year as \"an affront to the Great Jubilee of the year 2000\" and as \"an offence to the Christian values\" of Rome, and recalled the Church's teaching that homosexual acts are contrary to the natural law, while every sign of unjust discrimination against homosexuals should be avoided.\n\nIn response, the Dutch gay magazine, \"Gay Krant\", and its readership initiated a case against the pope in the Dutch law courts, arguing that his comment that homosexual acts are contrary to the laws of nature \"give rise to hatred against, and discrimination of certain groups of people\" in violation of Dutch law. This came to end when the court ruled that he was immune from prosecution as a head of state (the Vatican).\n\nIn his last personal work, \"Memory and Identity\", published in 2005, John Paul II he referred to the \"pressures\" on the European Parliament to permit \"homosexual 'marriage'\". He wrote: \"It is legitimate and necessary to ask oneself if this is not perhaps part of a new ideology of evil, perhaps more insidious and hidden, which attempts to pit human rights against the family and against man\".\n\nOn 9 March 2012, Pope Benedict XVI, denouncing \"the powerful political and cultural currents seeking to alter the legal definition of marriage\", currents that the \"Washington Post\" described as a \"cultural shift toward gay marriage in U.S.\", told a group of United States bishops on their \"ad limina\" visit to Rome that \"the Church's conscientious effort to resist this pressure calls for a reasoned defense of marriage as a natural institution consisting of a specific communion of persons, essentially rooted in the complementarity of the sexes and oriented to procreation. Sexual differences cannot be dismissed as irrelevant to the definition of marriage.\"\n\nAn essay by the French Chief Rabbi Gilles Bernheim taking a clear position against gay marriage and denouncing the theory of acquired gender was quoted at length by Pope Benedict XVI in his 2012 Christmas address to the Roman Curia.\n\nThe BBC reported that shortly before the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI in February 2013, the Italian media in particular used unsourced reports to suggest that there was a \"gay lobby\" of clergy inside the Vatican who had been collaborating to advance personal interests, thereby opening the Holy See to potential blackmail, and even to suggest that this may have been one of the factors influencing Benedict's decision to resign.\n\nPope Francis has repeatedly spoke about the need for the church to welcome and love all people, regardless of their sexual orientation. Speaking about gay people in 2013, he said that \"the key is for the church to welcome, not exclude and show mercy, not condemnation.\" In July of that year, he said \"If a person is gay and seeks God and has good will, who am I to judge?\" \"The problem,\" he said, \"is not having this orientation. We must be brothers.\" \n\nSeveral LGBT groups welcomed the comments, noting that this was the first time a pope had used the word \"gay\" in public, and had also accepted the existence of gay people as a recognizable part of the Catholic Church community. The Pope's attitude towards homosexuality earned him a place on the cover of the US gay news magazine \"The Advocate\". In October 2016, Francis said that \"When a person (who is gay) arrives before Jesus, Jesus certainly will not say, 'Go away because you are homosexual'\".\n\nFrancis has also spoken of the importance of education in the context of the difficulties now facing children, indicating that the Church had a challenge in not being welcoming enough of children brought up in a multiplicity of household arrangements, specifically including the children of gay couples. Francis presided over the 2014 Synod on the Family, where the working document called for less judgment towards people that are gay and more understanding towards same-sex couples in civil unions or marriages, as well as an equal welcome for children of such couples (including conferring baptism), while still rejecting the validity of same-sex marriage itself. \n\nIn the post-synodal apostolic exhortation \"Amoris Laetitia\", issued in 2016, Francis encouraged better understanding from all members of the Church on the acceptance of gay people, without suggesting any specific doctrinal changes. He reiterated the need for every person to be respected regardless of their sexual orientation, and to be free from threats of aggression and violence. During Pope Francis's visit to Ireland in August 2018 he built on this theme. The pontiff made clear that gay people had always been present throughout human history, and that it was essential for parents to remember that gay children remained part of the families and it was important for them to engage positively. In an accompanying press statement, he made clear that homosexuality should not be viewed by Catholics as an illness.\n\nDignityUSA was founded in the United States in 1969 as the first group for gay and lesbian Catholics shortly after the Stonewall riots. It developed from the ministry of Father Patrick Xavier Nidorf, an Augustinian priest. It set out the belief that gay Catholics can \"express our sexuality physically, in a unitive manner that is loving, life-giving, and life-affirming.\" It also seeks to \"work for the development of sexual theology leading to the reform of [the Church's] teachings and practices regarding human sexuality, and for the acceptance of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender peoples as full and equal members of the one Christ.\" Meetings were initially held in San Diego and Los Angeles, before the organization ultimately became headquartered in Boston. It later spread to Canada.\n\nFollowing the US Bishops’ 1976 Call To Action conference in Detroit, a group called Call to Action (CTA) was established to advocate a variety of changes in the Catholic Church, including in the church's teaching on sexual matters such as homosexuality. In addition to the US bishops' conference, it drew its mission from the Second Vatican Council, and in particular to its challenge to lay Catholics who had tended to defer initiatives entirely to the clergy. \n\nNew Ways Ministry was set up in 1977 in the United States of America by the Salvatorian priest Robert Nugent and the School Sister of Notre Dame nun Jeannine Gramick. This was in response to Bishop Francis Mugavero of Brooklyn who had invited them to reach out in \"new ways\" to lesbian and gay Catholics. As early as February 1976, Mugavero issued a pastoral letter entitled \"Sexuality: God's Gift,\" defending the legitimate rights of all people, including those who were gay and lesbian. He said that they had been \"subject to misunderstanding and at times unjust discrimination.\" In addition to gay and lesbian Catholics, the letter also spoke to the widowed, adolescents, the divorced, and those having sexual relations outside of marriage, stating: \"we pledge our willingness to help you ...to try to find new ways to communicate the truth of Christ because we believe it will make you free.\" These sentiments inspired the pastoral efforts by the co-founders to build bridges between differing constituencies in Catholicism.\n\nIn 1980, the Association of Priests in the Archdiocese of Chicago honored the Chicago branch of Dignity as the organization of the year. With the publication in 1987 of \"On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons,\" which instructed bishops not to provide facilities for organizations that did not uphold official Catholic teaching on homosexuality, Catholic bishops in Atlanta, Buffalo, Brooklyn, Pensacola and Vancouver immediately excluded Dignity chapters, and \"within a few months the organization was unwelcome on church property anywhere.\"\n\nIn 1981, New Ways Ministry held its first national symposium on homosexuality and the Catholic Church, but Archbishop James Hickey of Washington, D.C. wrote to Catholic bishops and communities, asking them not to support the event. Despite this, more than fifty Catholic groups endorsed the program.\n\nIn 1996, the bishop of Lincoln, Fabian Bruskewitz, excommunicated all members of Call to Action within his diocese. An appeal by the Nebraska Chapter was rejected by the Congregation for Bishops in 2006.\n\nThe Rainbow Sash Movement was established in Melbourne, Australia in 1998. It has been most active in the United States, England, and Australia. The Rainbow Sash itself is a strip of a rainbow colored fabric which is worn over the left shoulder and is put on at the beginning of the mass. At the appropriate time, members go up to receive the Eucharist. If denied, they go back to pews and remain standing, but if the Eucharist is received then they go back to the pew and kneel in the traditional way. Cardinal Francis Arinze, Prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments, said that members of the Rainbow Sash Movement disqualified themselves from Communion by making reception of it a display of opposition to the Church's teaching. The Eucharist, a sign of unity, can be denied when receiving it would be seen as an act of division or protest.\n\nBoth Nugent and Grammick of New Ways Ministry were formally disciplined in 1999 when the Vatican imposed lifetime bans on any pastoral work involving gay people, declaring that the positions they advanced \"do not faithfully convey the clear and constant teaching of the Catholic Church\" and \"have caused confusion among the Catholic people.\" The move made Nugent and Gramick \"folk heroes in liberal circles,\" where official teaching was seen as outdated and lacking compassion. Similarly, the American bishops Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit and Matthew Clark of Rochester, New York were criticized for their association with New Ways Ministry, and their distortion of the theological concept of the \"Primacy of Conscience\" as an alternative to the actual teaching of the Catholic Church.\n\nIn 2013, members of the Rainbow Sash Movement in Illinois planned to hold a prayer service in a cathedral for legalization of same-sex marriage, an initiative that Bishop Paprocki of Springfield called blasphemous.\n\n"}
{"id": "31516872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31516872", "title": "Human trafficking in Eritrea", "text": "Human trafficking in Eritrea\n\nIn 2010 the U.S. Department of State reported that:\nEritrea is a source country for men, women, and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced labor and, to a lesser extent, forced prostitution. During the reporting period, acts of forced labor occurred in Eritrea, particularly in connection with the implementation of the country's national service program. Under the parameters set forth in Proclamation of National Service (No. 82/1995), men aged 18 to 54 and women aged 18 to 47 are required to provide 18 months of military and non-military public works and services in any location or capacity chosen by the government...\n\nEritrean children work in various economic sectors, including domestic service, street vending, small-scale factories, and agriculture; child laborers frequently suffer abuse from their employers and some may be subjected to conditions of forced labor. Some children in prostitution are likely exploited through third party involvement...\n\nEach year, large numbers of Eritrean workers migrate in search of work, particularly to the Gulf States and Egypt, where some become victims of forced labor, primarily in domestic servitude. Smaller numbers are subjected to forced prostitution. In 2009, for example, five Eritrean trafficking victims were identified in the United Kingdom and one in Israel. In addition, thousands of Eritreans flee the country illegally, mostly to Sudan, Ethiopia, and Kenya, where their illegal status makes them vulnerable to situations of human trafficking.\nIn late 2013, the BBC reported the results of a study by activist Ms. Meron Estefanos and Dutch educators from Tilburg University. Among its conclusions: up to 30,000 Eritreans have been abducted since 2007—mostly refugees fleeing the country—and taken to Egypt's Sinai. At least $600m (£366m) in ransom payments has been extorted. Nesru Jamal of ERTA said that the report, entitled \"The Human Trafficking Cycle: Sinai and Beyond\" was presented to EU home Affairs Commissioner Cecilia Malmström in the European Parliament on Dec. 4, 2013. Jamal says the report accuses Eritrea's Border Surveillance Unit (commanded by General Tekle Kiflay) of being central to the trafficking.\n\nFor years many abductions, blamed on Rashayida Bedouin, happened along the Sudan border. Physicians for Human Rights-Israel estimates that, between 2008 and 2012, as many as 4,000 refugees died.\n\nU.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 3\" in 2017.\n\nThe human rights record of Eritrea is considered poor. Since Eritrea's conflict with Ethiopia in 1998–2001, Eritrea's human rights record has worsened. Several human rights violations are committed by the government or on behalf of the government. Freedom of speech, press, assembly, and association are limited. Those that practise \"unregistered\" religions, try to flee the nation, or escape military duty are arrested and put into prison. Domestic and international human rights organizations are not allowed to function in Eritrea. In 2009 Human Rights Watch said that the government was turning the country into a 'giant prison'.\n\nAll denominations of Christianity enjoyed freedom of worship until 2002 when the government outlawed worship and assembly outside the 'registered' denominations. All groups who worship secretly in a house or any other unregistered place of assembly are arrested and imprisoned without charge or trial. Religious prisoners are often tortured in Eritrea. Freedom of worship is one of the top reasons thousands of Eritreans flee the country. There are thousands of Eritrean refugees in Ethiopia and Sudan seeking asylum in Europe or another region of the West. Eritrea is a one-party state in which national legislative elections have been repeatedly postponed.\n\nU.S. Department of State, 2010:\nArticle 605 of the Eritrean Transitional Criminal Code prohibits trafficking in women and young persons for sexual exploitation, which is punishable by up to five years' imprisonment, or from three to 10 years' imprisonment if aggravating circumstances are present; these penalties are not commensurate with punishments prescribed for other serious crimes, such as rape. Article 565 prohibits enslavement and prescribes punishment of five to 20 years' imprisonment, penalties which are sufficiently stringent. Forced labor and slavery are prohibited, except where authorized by law under Article 16 of the ratified, but suspended, Eritrean Constitution. Proclamation 11/199 prohibits the recruitment of children under 18 years of age into the armed forces. Nevertheless, the government has never used these statutes to prosecute cases of human trafficking.\n\nU.S. Department of State, 2010:\nThe government did not appear to provide any significant assistance to victims of trafficking during the reporting period. During the reporting period, the government reportedly operated a program to identify children involved in commercial sexual exploitation and reintegrate them with their families. The government did not make available information on the program's accomplishments in 2009. The Ministry of Labor and Human Welfare oversees the government's trafficking portfolio, but individual cases of transnational human trafficking are reportedly handled by the Eritrean embassy in the country of destination; information regarding embassy efforts to assist trafficking victims was not provided. The government has no known facilities dedicated to trafficking victims and does not provide funding or other forms of support to NGOs for services to trafficking victims.\n\nU.S. Department of State, 2010:\nThe government made no known efforts to prevent future incidences of trafficking during the reporting period. Eritrean media, all state-owned, made neither public announcements nor media presentations regarding human trafficking during the reporting period. There were no anti-trafficking education campaigns. The government reportedly warned students at Sawa military school and Mai Nefi, a local college, of the dangers of leaving the country, including the prospects of being sold into slave labor or sexual servitude. Although the government does not publicly acknowledge human trafficking as a problem, an office exists within the Ministry of Labor to handle labor cases, including human trafficking; the accomplishments of this office during 2009 are unknown.\n\n"}
{"id": "56988649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56988649", "title": "Icelandic Order of Freemasons", "text": "Icelandic Order of Freemasons\n\nThe Icelandic Order of Freemasons () (abbr.: FaI), in English also known as the Grand Lodge of Iceland, is the governing body of regular Freemasonry in Iceland.\n\nThe history of Freemasonry in Iceland began when a \"society of brothers“, Edda, was established in the Icelandic capital of Reykjavik in 1913. Edda became a lodge of instruction in 1918. The following year, on January 6, 1919, it became a fully warranted lodge.. Since 1919, there have been a total of twelve warranted lodges and six lodges of instruction established in Iceland. Membership in the Order was at 3,379 as of March 15, 2011\n\nIcelandic Freemasonry was under the jurisdiction of the Danish Order of Freemasons () until 1951 when the Grandlodge of Denmark constituted the Grand Lodge of Iceland as a sovereign Order.\n\nIcelandic Freemasonry operates according to the Swedish Rite which is the dominant system in Scandinavia. Unlike other forms of Freemasonry, the Swedish Rite consists of eleven degrees, all of which are recognized by regular Freemasonry. As part of the Swedish Rite, the Icelandic Order of Freemasons requires its members to profess a belief in Christianity. The Order additionally requires its members to be over the age of twenty-one, to have a clean criminal record, and to have received the sponsorship of at least two members of the Order.\n\nThere are 17 lodges in Iceland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6332482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6332482", "title": "Jahaic languages", "text": "Jahaic languages\n\nThe Northern Aslian languages (formerly called Jehaic or Semang) are a group of Aslian languages spoken by about 5,000 people in inland areas of Peninsular Malaysia, with a few pockets in southern Thailand. The most distinctive language in the group is the outlier Cheq Wong, which is spoken south of the Central Aslian language Semai. The other languages apart from Tonga can be split into two divisions:\n\n\nThe name Maniq (Məniʔ, Maniʔ) can refer to either Kensiu or Tonga, both of which also go by the name of Mos.\n\nSome Aslian languages are already extinct, such as Wila' (also called Bila' or Lowland Semang), a language or various languages recorded having been spoken on the Province Wellesley coast opposite Penang in the early 19th century. Another extinct language is Ple-Temer, which was previously spoken near Gerik in northern Perak (Benjamin 2011).\n\n"}
{"id": "16098207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16098207", "title": "Kir-Balar language", "text": "Kir-Balar language\n\nKir-Balar (also known as Kir, Kirr) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Kir Bengbet and Kir Bajang’le villages, Bauchi LGA Bauchi State, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "40808224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40808224", "title": "Kodjabashis", "text": "Kodjabashis\n\nThe kodjabashis (; singular κοτζάμπασης, \"kotzabasis\"; ; from ) were local Christian notables in parts of the Ottoman Balkans, most often referring to Ottoman Greece and especially the Peloponnese. They were also known in Greek as \"proestoi\" or \"prokritoi\" (προεστοί/πρόκριτοι, \"primates\") or \"demogerontes\" (δημογέροντες, \"elders of the people\"). In some places they were elected (such in the islands for example), but, especially in the Peloponnese, they soon became a hereditary oligarchy, who exercised considerable influence and held posts in the Ottoman administration. \n\nThe title was also present in Ottoman Serbia and Bosnia, where it was known as \"starešina\" (\"elder, chief\") instead of the official Turkish name. The terms \"chorbaji\" (from Turkish \"çorbacı\") and \"knez\" (a Slavic title) were also used for this type of primates, in Bulgaria and Serbia respectively.\n\nThe equivalent of the kodjabashis in Orthodox villages was the \"mukhtar\" in Muslim villages, while mixed villages had both.\n\nDuring the Greek War of Independence, the antagonism between the Peloponnesian kodjabashis, who sought to retain their previous preponderance and power, and the military leaders drawn from the klephts, was one of the main driving forces behind the outbreak of the Greek civil wars of 1824–1825, in which the \"aristocratic\" faction comprising the kodjabashis, the wealthy shipowners of Hydra and the Phanariotes, prevailed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1702660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702660", "title": "List of wives of King Henry VIII", "text": "List of wives of King Henry VIII\n\nIn legal terms, King Henry VIII of England had only three wives, because three of his putative marriages were annulled. Unlike a divorce, where a married couple chooses to end their union, annulments essentially declare that a true marriage never took place. However, in common parlance, the so-called wives of Henry VIII were the six queens consort wedded to Henry between 1509 and his death in 1547.\n\nThe six women who were married to Henry VIII were, in chronological order:\n\nHenry's first marriage lasted nearly 24 years; the five that followed less than 10 years combined.\n\nA common mnemonic device to remember the fates of Henry's consorts is \"Divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived\". There are also two rhymes:\n\nand\n\nIt is often noted that Catherine Parr \"survived him.\" In fact, Anne of Cleves also survived the king, and was the last of his queens to die. Of the six queens, Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, and Jane Seymour each gave Henry one child who survived infancy: two daughters and one son. All three of these children would eventually ascend to the throne: King Edward VI, Queen Mary I, and Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nCatherine Howard and Anne Boleyn, the two of Henry's queens who were beheaded, were first cousins. Several of Henry's wives worked in at least one of his other wives' service, typically as ladies-in-waiting: Anne Boleyn worked in Catherine of Aragon's service, Jane Seymour worked in Catherine of Aragon's and Anne Boleyn's, and Catherine Howard worked in Anne of Cleves's.\n\nHenry and at least four of his wives (Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, and Catherine Parr) were portrayed in opera.\n\nKatherine of Aragon (16 December 14857 January 1536; ) was Henry's first wife. Although her name is sometimes spelled \"Catherine\", Katherine of Aragon spelled and signed her name with a \"K,\" which was the accepted spelling in England. After the death of Arthur, her first husband and Henry's brother, a papal dispensation was obtained to enable her to marry Henry, though the marriage did not take place until after he came to the throne in 1509. Prospects were looking good when Katherine became pregnant in 1510, just 4 months after their marriage, but the girl was stillborn. Katherine became pregnant again in 1511, and gave birth to a boy, Henry, Duke of Cornwall, who died almost two months later. In 1513, Katherine gave birth to a stillborn boy, and gave birth to a boy who died within hours in 1515. Finally, Katherine bore him a healthy daughter in 1516, Mary. It took her two years to conceive again. This pregnancy ended in a short-lived girl. It is said that Henry truly loved Katherine of Aragon, as he himself professed it many times in declarations, etc.\n\nHenry, at the time a Roman Catholic, sought the Pope's approval for an annulment on the grounds that his marriage was invalid because Katherine had first been his brother's wife, using a passage from the Old Testament (Leviticus Chapter 20 Verse 21) to justify his stance: \"If a man shall take his brother’s wife, it is an impurity; he hath uncovered his brother’s nakedness; they shall be childless.” \nHenry had begun an affair with Anne Boleyn, who is said to have refused to become his mistress (Henry had already consummated an affair then dismissed Anne's sister, Mary Boleyn, and most historians believe that Anne wanted to avoid the same treatment). Despite the pope's refusal, Henry separated from Katherine in 1531. In the face of the Pope's continuing refusal to annul his marriage to Katherine, Henry ordered the highest church official in England, Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, to convene a court to rule on the status of his marriage to Katherine. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer ruled the marriage to Katherine null and void. On 28 May 1533, he pronounced the King legally married to Anne (with whom Henry had already secretly exchanged wedding vows, probably in late January 1533). This led to the break from the Roman Catholic Church and the later establishment of the Church of England.\nShakespeare called Katherine \"The Queen of Earthly Queens.\"\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 11 June 1509 – 23 May 1533 (23 years, 11 months, 19 days); marriage annulled.\n\nAnne Boleyn (c.1501/150719 May 1536) was Henry's second wife and the mother of Elizabeth I. Henry's marriage to Anne, and her subsequent execution, made her a key figure in the political and religious upheaval that was the start of the English Reformation. The daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Boleyn (born Lady Elizabeth Howard), Anne was of nobler birth than Jane Seymour, Henry's later wife. She was dark-haired, with beautiful features and lively manners; she was educated in Europe, largely as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Claude of France.\n\nAnne resisted the King's attempts to seduce her in 1526 and she refused to become his mistress, as her sister, Mary Boleyn, had been. It soon became the one absorbing object of the King's desires to secure a divorce from his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so he could marry Anne. Evidence of intimacy between the King and Anne is found in a love letter written by the King, in which he expressed admiration for her \"pretty duckies\" (breasts). When it became clear that Pope Clement VII was unlikely to give the king an annulment, the breaking of the power of the Roman Catholic Church in England began.\n\nHenry had Thomas Wolsey dismissed from public office and later had the Boleyn family's chaplain, Thomas Cranmer, appointed Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1533, Henry and Anne went through a secret wedding service. She soon became pregnant and there was a second, public wedding service, which took place in London on 25 January 1533. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Catherine null and void. Five days later, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Anne to be good and valid. Soon after, the Pope launched sentences of excommunication against the King and the Archbishop. As a result of Anne's marriage to the King, the Church of England was forced to break with Rome and was brought under the king's control.\nAnne was crowned Queen Consort of England on 1 June 1533. Later that year, on 7 September, Anne gave birth to Henry's second daughter, Elizabeth. When Anne failed to quickly produce a male heir, her only son being stillborn, the King grew tired of her, annulled their marriage, and a plot was hatched by Thomas Cromwell to execute her.\n\nAlthough the evidence against her was unconvincing, Anne was beheaded on charges of adultery, incest, and high treason on 19 May 1536. Following her daughter Elizabeth's coronation as queen, Anne was venerated as a martyr and heroine of the English Reformation, particularly through the works of John Foxe. Over the centuries, Anne has inspired or been mentioned in numerous artistic and cultural works.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 May 153317 May 1536 (2 years, 11 months, 19 days); annulled, then beheaded.\n\nJane Seymour (c.roughly 150824 October 1537) was Henry's third wife. She served Catherine of Aragon and was one of Anne Boleyn's ladies-in-waiting. It is strongly believed that she is the mistress who disposed of Anne, who was executed just 10–11 days before Jane's marriage to the king. The daughter of a knight, she was of lower birth than most of Henry's wives. Finally, a year later, Jane gave birth to a healthy, legitimate male heir, Edward, but she died twelve days later, presumably because of post-natal complications. This apparently caused her husband genuine grief, as she was the only queen to receive a proper Queen's burial; when the King died in 1547, he was buried next to her.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 30 May 153624 October 1537 (1 year, 4 months, 24 days); death from complications of childbirth.\n\nAnne of Cleves (22 September 151516 July 1557) was Henry's fourth wife, for only six months in 1540, from 6 January to 9 July. Anne of Cleves was a German princess. It has been stated that Henry referred to her as \"A Flanders Mare\", which may or may not be true; nevertheless, the label has stuck with Anne. Her pre-contract of marriage with Francis I, Duke of Lorraine, was cited as grounds for an annulment. Anne agreed to this, claiming that the marriage had not been consummated, and because she hadn't resisted the annulment, was given a generous settlement, including Hever Castle, former home of Henry's former in-laws, the Boleyns. She was given the name \"The King's Sister\", and became a friend to him and his children until his death. She outlived both the King and his last two wives, making her the last of the six wives to die.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 6 January 15409 July 1540 (6 months, 3 days); annulled.\n\nCatherine Howard (c.152113 February 1542) was Henry's fifth wife between 1540–1542, sometimes known as \"the rose without a\nthorn\". Henry was informed of her alleged adultery with Thomas Culpeper on 1 November 1541.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 July 154023 November 1541 (1 year, 3 months, 26 days); beheaded.\n\nCatherine Parr (15125 September 1548), also spelled Kateryn, was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII, 1543–1547. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Parr of Kendal and his wife Maud Green. Through her father, Catherine was a descendant of John of Gaunt, son of King Edward III. Through John of Gaunt's daughter Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmoreland (Henry's great-great grandmother), she was Henry's third cousin, once removed. By Henry's paternal descent from another of John of Gaunt's children, John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset, the two were also fourth cousins once removed.\n\nCatherine showed herself to be the restorer of Henry's court as a family home for his children. Catherine was determined to present the royal household as a close-knit one in order to demonstrate strength through unity to Henry's opposers. Perhaps Catherine's most significant achievement was Henry's passing of an act that confirmed both Mary's and Elizabeth's line in succession for the throne, despite the fact that they had both been made illegitimate by divorce or remarriage. Such was Henry's trust in Catherine that he chose her to rule as Regent while he was attending to the war in France and in the unlikely event of the loss of his life, she was to rule as Regent until nine-year-old Edward came of age.\n\nCatherine also has a special place in history as she was the most married queen of England, having had four husbands in all; Henry was her third. She had been widowed twice before marrying Henry. After Henry's death, she married Thomas Seymour, uncle of Edward VI of England, to whom she had formed an attachment prior to her marriage with Henry. She had one child by Seymour, Mary, and died shortly after childbirth. Lady Mary's history is unknown, but she is not believed to have survived childhood.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 12 July 154328 January 1547 (3 years, 6 months, 16 days); his death at the age of 55.\n\nHenry was distantly related to all six of his wives through their common ancestor, King Edward I of England, through more than one ancestor.\n\nThe following family tree of Henry VIII's six wives is the closest lineage of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "33402659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33402659", "title": "Mehinaku language", "text": "Mehinaku language\n\nMehináku (Meinaku) is an Arawakan language spoken by the Mehinaku people of Brazil. One dialect, Waurá-kumá, is \"somewhat intelligible\" with Waurá due to influence from this language.\n"}
{"id": "33653697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33653697", "title": "Mpoto language", "text": "Mpoto language\n\nMpoto is a Bantu language of Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "1562769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562769", "title": "Nicholas Biwott", "text": "Nicholas Biwott\n\nNicholas Kipyator Kiprono arap Biwott (1940 – 11 July 2017) was a Kenyan businessman, politician and philanthropist. Biwott served as a civil servant, Member of Parliament and government minister, during which time he held eight senior ministerial positions during the presidency of Daniel arap Moi.\n\nBiwott was born in Chebior village, Keiyo District, Rift Valley Province in 1940 to Cheserem Soti, a market trader and cattle herder in Eldoret, and Maria Soti. He attended Tambach Intermediate School from 1951 to 1954, after which he joined Kapsabet High School.\n\nAfter finishing secondary school in 1959, Biwott began working at the Department of Information in Eldoret, after which he published the \"Kalenjin Monthly\" newsletter with Kendagor Bett.\n\nHe attended the University of Melbourne, Australia, from 1962 to 1964, where he took a Bachelor of Commerce degree in Economics and Political Science, as well as a Diploma in Public Administration.\n\nBiwott then served as a District Officer in Nkubu in the South Imenti Division of Meru District from 1964 to 1965, returning to the University of Melbourne in 1966 to study for a Masters Degree in Economics under a Commonwealth scholarship.\n\nBiwott was a member of parliament for 28 years. In 1974 he ran unsuccessfully as a prospective MP for the Keiyo South Constituency. At the next election in 1979 he was successful, standing on KANU ticket in Keiyo-Marakwet, retaining the seat in 1983 and 1988. In 1992, 1997, and 2002 he was elected the MP for Keiyo South Constituency. In the Parliamentary elections held on 27 December 2007, running on a KANU ticket, he lost his seat to Jackson Kiptanui arap Kamai of the Orange Democratic Party (ODM). The ODM swept to victory in all but one of KANU's seats on the Rift Valley.\n\nFollowing the 2002 election, Biwott served on the Devolution Committee of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission. Biwott was the only Member of Parliament who abstained on the Constitutional Referendum held in 2005, stating that the Draft Constitution 'would divide the country along ethnic lines'. The draft Constitution was rejected at the Referendum.\n\nMore recently, Biwott has fought an election for leadership of KANU, the former party of government and now the official opposition, following years of decline in KANU political fortunes but lost the post to Uhuru Kenyatta following a decision by the Kenyan High Court.\n\nBiwott entered government service in 1965 as the District Officer in South Imenti and Tharaki, Meru District (Jan 1965–66). As District Officer Biwott instituted, on a 'harrambe' basis, community fund-raising programmes to aid the development of local irrigation projects and roads, to build a health centre at Nkwene and schools at Nkubu and Kanyakini, develop employment at the Egoji quarries and promote the planting of coffee and tea. He was also actively involved in the resettlement of previously European owned land through the 'Land Transfer' programme, part of the 'Million Acres' scheme, and played a central role in the rehabilitation of the Mau Mau, many of whom still remained in the Mau Forest four years after the end of the 'Emergency', helping to persuade them to give up violence and organising the resettlement of many on to their own land.\n\nHaving completed his master's degree in Australia in 1968, Nicholas Biwott returned to public service in the Ministry of Agriculture, GOK, Personal Assistant to Minister Bruce MacKenzie (1968–70). He coordinated cereal production, the marketing of cereal crops and the management of the Ministry's fertiliser policy, and helped develop research into new strains of wheat and maize more suited to the growing conditions in Kenya. He played a similar co-ordinating role for the Ministry's work with the East African Council of Ministers (MacKenzie was also a member of the Council), guiding Kenya's policy in the region in the development of ports, railways and the East African Airways.\n\nIn 1971 Nicholas Biwott moved to the Treasury as Senior Secretary under the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning, Mwai Kibaki. In 1972 he created and headed the External Aid Division and technical assistance program dealing with external resources, bringing in experts and arranging cultural exchanges. Notably he helped facilitate the establishment of the French School in Nairobi (now called the Lycee Denis Diderot), the French Cultural Centre with the Alliance de Francais, and the German Friederich Ebert Stiftung Foundation in co-operation with the Goethe Institut.\n\nIn late 1972 Nicholas Biwott transferred to the Ministry of Home Affairs on the personal recommendation of President Kenyatta to work with his Vice-President and the Minister of Home Affairs, Daniel arap Moi.\n\nIn 1974 Biwott stood as a candidate for the Keiyo South constituency in the general election of that year but was narrowly defeated.\n\nFollowing the 1974 election Nicholas Biwott was recalled to the Ministry of Home Affairs as Under Secretary (1974–78) to Minister Daniel arap Moi, Kenya's Vice-President. With the ageing President Kenyatta unable to fulfil all the functions of the presidency, Moi took a leading role in the East African region with the result that Nicholas Biwott spent much of the next four years dealing with the Organisation of African Unity, the Commonwealth, the 'non-aligned' states and promoting the 'good neighbourliness' policy with states bordering Kenya.\n\nKenyatta's death in 1978 saw Daniel arap Moi elevated to the presidency and Nicholas Biwott promoted to Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Office of the President (1978–79).\n\nFollowing the election of 1979 (in which he was elected Member of Parliament for 1979 Keiyo South election, a seat he retained until December 2007), Nicholas Biwott returned to the Office of the President but now promoted to Minister of State (1979–82) with responsibility for science and technology, cabinet affairs, land settlement and immigration.\n\nUnder his auspices the Kenya Medical Research Institute was established in the same year to carry out health science research in Kenya. (Now in its 31st year, KEMRI continues its work as “a leading centre of excellence in the promotion of quality health”).\n\nIn September 1982 he was appointed Minister of Regional Development, Science and Technology. Learning from examples of other regional development policies, notably in Australia and Tennessee in the USA, he created two regional development authorities, the Lake Basin Development Authority and the Kerio Valley Development Authority.\n\nIn September 1983, Nicholas Biwott was made Minister of Energy and Regional Development and in March 1988 (following a reorganisation of ministry portfolios) he became Minister of Energy, a post he held until January 1991.\n\nOver the next seven years he was instrumental in establishing the National Oil Corporation, the building of National Oil storage facilities near Nairobi and connecting them to the Mombasa refinery, and extending the pipeline from Nairobi to Kisumu and Eldoret. This period that saw rapid advances in efforts to improve Kenya's electricity supply and delivery with a rural electrification programme, work beginning on the Sondu Miriu Dam, and the completions of the Masinga Multi Purpose Dam, the Kiambere Hydro Electric Dam and the Turkwell Hydro Electric Multi Purpose Dam.\n\nAlthough he remained a member of parliament, Biwott held no position in the Government of Kenya from 1991 until he re-entered government as Minister of State in the Office of the President of East Africa in 1997 before, in January 1998, he established and was appointed Minister of the new Ministry of East African and Regional Co-operation (1998–99).\n\nNicholas Biwott played a central role in COMESA — the Common Market for East and Central Africa, co-ordinating with COMESA partner Ministers legislation for an East African Road network, legislation for an East African Legislative Assembly, and becoming Chairman of both COMESA and of the East Africa Council of Ministers.\n\nIn September 1999 Biwott's ministerial portfolio was expanded when he became Minister of Trade and Industry, Tourism and East African Cooperation (1999–2001), a post he held for the next three years during which he established a Tourist Trust Fund with the European Union, set up the Tourist Police and re-introduced the East Africa Safari Rallies.\n\nBiwott's promotion of Kenyan tourism met with some praise. He was variously described as \"the hardest working minister of tourism Kenya has ever had\" and as \"the best minister of tourism in 25 years\".\n\nIn May 2001 (following a further reorganisation of Ministry responsibilities) Nicholas Biwott continued as the Minister of Trade and Industry and East African Tourism (2001–02). Over the next eighteen months he established the Small Medium Trade Trust Fund with the European Union, introduced an Intellectual Property bill which was passed as an Act, accomplished a free trade area with COMESA, established the Africa Trade Insurance Agency to cover foreign investments against political risk, and served as Chairman of the African Caribbean Pacific Group (ACP) at the World Trade Organization.\n\nBiwott led an active business life and was regarded as one of Kenya's most successful entrepreneurs.\n\nAs a teenager in the late 1950s Biwott worked alongside his father who had established a successful fruit and vegetable business in Eldoret. The young Biwott also borrowed small amounts of money from a local bank with which to expand his own business sideline selling meat products and eggs. Nicholas Biwott continued to expand his own business and in the late 1960s formed ABC Foods selling food and animal feed products.\nWithin a few years Nicholas Biwott was able to invest in farms and businesses, taking advantage of the post-independence banking policies at the time by which Kenyans were granted loans on favourable terms. In 1969, aged 29, Biwott purchased the Eldoret Town International Harvester (IH) dealership (now FMD trading as Lima Ltd). He also purchased a dairy farm in the same year, started an importer exporter business in 1972, purchased two wheat farms in 1974, invested in the sole agency for IH in Kenya for agricultural tractors and implements in 1975, and purchased a local air operator in 1977 (now Air Kenya).\n\nBiwott's business philosophy of purchasing small or failing businesses, investing and re-investing in them over many years, appears to have paid dividends. He is now regarded as one of Kenya's wealthiest businessmen.\n\nBiwott's businesses in Kenya employ thousands of people and one company of which he is the major shareholder, has for many years been listed among Kenya's top 10 corporate taxpayers.\n\nMr Biwott supported a number of projects in the areas of education, health and medicine, and assisting small businesses. In 2008 he established the Mbegu Trust) 'to develop education and opportunity in Kenya'.\n\nNicholas Biwott raised and contributed funds for the building of a number of schools, and hospitals in Keiyo. A full list can be found here\n\nNicholas Biwott’s name has been raised, ‘perhaps unfairly ’ by his detractors both inside and outside Kenya regarding several controversies all which have date their origins to the years 1990–91. His supporters maintain that the allegations, none of which have ever been proved, arose from the campaign at the time to introduce multi-party democracy in Kenya coupled with Biwott's association with President Moi.\n\nBiwott was named by Scotland Yard detective John Troon as a person of interest in the 1990 murder of Kenya's Foreign Affairs minister Robert Ouko. Troon's theories and the basis for them as to the motives for the murder have since been criticised.\n\nTen government officials, including Biwott, were held in police custody for questioning for two weeks in November 1991 but a Kenyan Police investigation concluded that there was no 'evidence to support the allegations that Biwott was involved in the disappearance and subsequent death of the late minister Dr. Robert John Ouko'.\n\nIn December 2003, Biwott issued a formal complaint against New Scotland Yard through his lawyer on the basis that Troon's investigation was 'fundamentally flawed and, in many cases erroneous' and called on New Scotland Yard 'to investigate Troon' and to issue an apology. The request was ultimately turned down in December 2004 by the Metropolitan Police as the original investigation 'did not involve any UK \"victim\", potential suspect, or even witnesses', and because 'the resources of the Metropolitan Police are limited'. Another reason given for the refusal by the Metropolitan Police to review the case was that the Kenyan Parliamentary Select Committee was investigating the death of Dr Robert Ouko and that it was 'open to Mr Biwott to make any representations he wishes to that Inquiry'. The Select Committee's proceedings, however, were abruptly terminated as Nicholas Biwott began to give his testimony.\n\nTo date, the allegation that Biwott was involved in the murder of Dr Robert Ouko has never been factually substantiated. In a recent broadcast (March 2017) Episode Six \"Lingering Doubts and Further Investigations\" it is explained why the allegations against Nicholas Biwott were false, and summarise \"It may be a hard truth for many Kenyans to swallow, but Nicholas Biwott clearly had no involvement in the murder of Robert Ouko.\n\nIn 2000, a Nairobi court awarded Mr Biwott record damages of Sh30 million arising from a case in which he sued a British journalist, Chester Stern, and others for linking him to the Ouko murder in a book entitled 'Dr Iain West's Casebook'. Chester Stern and the book's publishers, Little Brown, stated that they would \"vigorously defend\" the action but ultimately they did not do so and the case was uncontested. Earlier Biwott won Sh10 : million from Bookpoint, a popular Nairobi bookshop, for stocking copies of the book \"Dr Ian West's Casebook\".\n\nIn 1993 the 'Goldenberg scandal' came to light in which the Kenyan government was found to have subsidised exports of gold by paying a company, Goldenberg International Ltd (GIL), 35 percent more (in Kenyan shillings) than the foreign currency earnings supposedly derived from the sale of gold. The scheme had begun in 1991 and is estimated to have cost Kenya the equivalent of more than 10 percent of its annual Gross Domestic Product. A Commission of Inquiry headed by Mr Justice Bosire reported its findings in October 2005 stating that Sh158.3 billion [$2.1 billion] of Goldenberg money had been transacted through 487 companies and individuals. 1,559 'Adverse Notices' were issued against companies and individuals but although Nicholas Biwott was included on that list he was only mentioned directly or indirectly in three of the reports 847 paragraphs and the report, together with subsequent revelations would seem to absolve Biwott of any involvement in the scandal.\n\nThe Report of the Judicial Commission of Enquiry into the Goldenberg Affair (to which Nicholas Biwott was not summoned to appear) states on para 511 that Lima Limited, of which Biwott was shareholder and director, was 'said (to) have received Kshs.6,300,000.00 [$84,000] from GIL'. However, it was subsequently revealed that the payment to Lima Ltd, a company that sold farm machinery and equipment, was made not from GIL but by Tandui Estates Ltd for the purchase of farm equipment, including a number of tractors and other machinery. Paragraph 693 of the same report mentions Biwott in conjunction with a payment of KShs. 6,000,000 [$80,000], which involved Trade Bank Ltd, Pan-African Bank Ltd and Liabilities of H.Z. & Co. Ltd. The Commission concluded however, that 'no moneys of Goldenberg were involved'.\n\nBiwott is now but one name on a long list of Kenyan politicians and civil servants associated with the Moi era to have travel restrictions imposed on them by the United States and the UK including most recently, in October 2009, Kenya's Attorney General Amos Wako, in what has been described by Kenya's Foreign Minister Moses Wetang'ula as \"megaphone diplomacy\".\n\nOn the morning of 11 July 2017, Biwott was rushed to Nairobi Hospital. He died of complications arising from kidney failure 30 minutes later.\nThe news spread rapidly across all media forms and by 12th July 2017 was front page headline news in all the main newspapers. Tributes came in from all sections of Kenyan business and political society. \n\nFormer President Daniel arap Moi : “Biwott was a dedicated public servant, an astute businessman and a philanthropist who initiated community projects to alleviate the suffering of people he represented in Keiyo. Biwott was a dependable friend and his public service had an impact on the Nation.” \n\nFormer President Mwai Kibaki : \"Biwott provided leadership in eight diverse ministerial dockets besides representing Keiyo South for 28 years.” \n\nRaila Odinga : “Biwott played a central role in the formation of the modern Kenya state at a critical moment in our history, when it was vital to have every hand on deck to ensure that Kenya’s first transfer of power went smoothly and ensured national unity at a very tense and trying time.” \n\nUhuru Kenyatta : “These were the qualities that propelled his rise through the ranks of Government; and these are the qualities that he put at the disposal of the Presidents he served, and of his countrymen.They were balanced by his private warmth, his wit, his attention to detail, and his love of family.” \n\nA memorial service was held at Milimani AIC on the 18th July 2017 followed on the 20th July by a funeral service at the Maria Soti Girls Educational Centre Kaptarakwa, in Keiyo, Elgeyo/Marakwet County.\n\nIn the final speech of the funeral President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogized the late Biwott as a \"true patriot\"\n“When the history of this country is written, it will include many men and women in this country who quietly but firmly and confidently are responsible for what Kenya is today – a sound country, a stable country with a growing economy. And Nicholas Biwott is one of those people,” said the President.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27283043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27283043", "title": "Nyakyusa language", "text": "Nyakyusa language\n\nNyakyusa, or Nyakyusa-Ngonde, is a Bantu language of Tanzania and Malawi spoken by the Nyakyusa people around the northern end of Lake Malawi. There is no single name for the language as a whole; dialects are Nyakyusa, Ngonde (Konde), Kukwe, Mwamba (Lungulu), and Selya (Salya, Seria) of Tanzania. Disregarding the Bantu language prefixes \"Iki-\" and \"Ki-,\" the language is also known as Konde ~ Nkhonde, Mombe, Nyekyosa ~ Nyikyusa, and Sochile ~ Sokili.\n\nSukwa is often listed as another dialect, but according to Nurse (1988) and Fourshey (2002) it is a dialect of Lambya.\n\nIn Malawi Nyakusa and Kyangonde are spoken in the northern part of Karonga District, on the shore of Lake Malawi close to the border with Tanzania, while Nkhonde is spoken the centre of the district, including in the town of Karonga.\n\nAccording to the Language Mapping Survey for Northern Malawi carried out by the Centre for Language Studies of the University of Malawi, \"Nyakyuska, though spoken by very few people, mainly at Iponga in Sub T/ A Mwakawoko’s area, is regarded as the parent language from which Kyangonde and Chinkhonde originated. Kyangonde, on the other hand, is regarded as the most prestigious and standard language/dialect of the district. ... Chinkhonde is seen as a dialect of Kyangonde which has been heavily influenced by Citumbuka.\"\n\nThe same Survey contains a folktale (the Tortoise and the Hare) in Chinkhonde and other languages of Northern Malawi, as well as some comparative vocabulary.\n\nBastian Persohn (2018). The Verb in Nyakyusa: A focus on tense, aspect, and modality. Berlin: Language Science Press. http://langsci-press.org/catalog/book/141. . DOI 10.5281/zenodo.926408. Open Access.\n"}
{"id": "13123634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13123634", "title": "Płock Diadem", "text": "Płock Diadem\n\nThe Płock Diadem () was created in the beginning of the 13th century probably in Hungary. This filigree diadem is wrought of extremely pure gold and set with sapphires, rubies and pearls.\n\nThe diadem was brought to Poland by one of the Hungarian princesses. Later assigned to Konrad I of Masovia, Duke of Masovia it served as the personal crown of the Dukes of Masovia and was kept in the Płock Cathedral.\n\nIn 1601 by order of King Sigismund III Vasa the diadem was placed by a goldsmith Stanisław Zemelka on reliquary of St. Sigismund (patron saint of the King, also kept in the Płock Cathedral). This reliquary takes the form of a bust and it was established by King Casimir III the Great in the 14th century to comprise relics of that saint. The reliquary was made in Kraków between 1351–1356 and it depicts the King.\n\nThe reliquary was looted by the Germans during World War II, and later reclaimed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40842172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40842172", "title": "Romani people in Germany", "text": "Romani people in Germany\n\nRomani people in Germany are estimated to around 170,000-300,000, constituting around 0.1% of the population. One-third of Germany Romani belong to the Sinti group. The majority of Romani in Germany lack German citizenship, having immigrated mostly from Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Romania, Albania, and Kosovo, and the other countries of former Yugoslavia, and few from Turkey. Most speak German or Sinte Romani.\n\nThe Romani people originate from the Northern India, presumably from the northwestern Indian states Rajasthan and Punjab.\n\nThe linguistic evidence has indisputably shown that roots of Romani language lie in India: the language has grammatical characteristics of Indian languages and shares with them a big part of the basic lexicon, for example, body parts or daily routines.\n\nMore exactly, Romani shares the basic lexicon with Hindi and Punjabi. It shares many phonetic features with Marwari, while its grammar is closest to Bengali.\n\nGenetic findings in 2012 suggest the Romani originated in northwestern India and migrated as a group.\nAccording to a genetic study in 2012, the ancestors of present scheduled tribes and scheduled caste populations of northern India, traditionally referred to collectively as the Ḍoma, are the likely ancestral populations of modern European Roma.\n\nIn February 2016, during the International Roma Conference, the Indian Minister of External Affairs stated that the people of the Roma community were children of India. The conference ended with a recommendation to the Government of India to recognize the Roma community spread across 30 countries as a part of the Indian diaspora.\n\nThe Sinti arrived in Germany and Austria in the Late Middle Ages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34968686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34968686", "title": "Rush Limbaugh–Sandra Fluke controversy", "text": "Rush Limbaugh–Sandra Fluke controversy\n\nThe Rush Limbaugh–Sandra Fluke controversy began on February 29, 2012, when American conservative talk-show host Rush Limbaugh's remarks about contraceptive mandates included statements labeling Georgetown University Law Center student Sandra Fluke as a \"slut\" and \"prostitute\". Limbaugh was commenting on Fluke's speech the previous week to House Democrats in support of mandating insurance coverage for contraceptives. Despite disapproval from major political figures, Limbaugh made numerous similar statements over the next two days, which led to the loss of several of his national sponsors and Limbaugh apologizing on his show for some of his comments. Fluke rejected the apology as dubious and inadequate.\n\nSandra Fluke, then a 30-year-old law student at Georgetown University, was invited by Democrats to speak at a hearing by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on the new Administration rules on Conscience Clause exceptions in health care. The exception applies to church organizations themselves, but not to affiliated nonprofit corporations, like hospitals, that do not rely primarily on members of the faith as employees. In addition, another exception was created for religious institutions in which an employee can seek birth control directly from the insurance company instead of the religious based nonprofit. Democrats requested the committee add Sandra Fluke to the first panel, which was composed of clergy and theologians. Committee chairman Darrell Issa (R-California) refused, stating that Fluke lacked expertise, was not member of the clergy, and her name was not submitted in time. Democratic members criticized the decision not to include Fluke since it left that panel with only male members, when the hearing covered contraception coverage.\nThe next week, the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee convened a meeting to invite Fluke to speak. Fluke put forward reasons that her school, Georgetown, should be compelled to offer contraceptive drugs without co-pay, in spite of the Catholic University's moral opposition to artificial birth control. She said that during the time spent as a law student, birth control could cost $3,000 or more. She also stated that 40% of Georgetown Law School's female population suffered financial hardship as a result of birth control not being covered by the student health insurance plan, and that the lack of contraception coverage in the university insurance plans would induce many low income students to go without contraceptives. She then shared the stories of friends affected by such policies, citing a friend with polycystic ovary syndrome. Fluke said this friend needed contraceptive hormones costing over $100 per month in order to treat this disease, and that while PCOS was covered by Georgetown insurance, the insurance company repeatedly denied contraceptives, because they suspected the purpose of the medication was contraception. Fluke explained that the friend was a lesbian, and therefore did not need birth control. Due to the friend being unable to afford the necessary treatment for her disease, complications arose, requiring surgery and the removal of one ovary. Subsequently, the friend then went through premature ovarian failure, a condition that causes infertility, seriously impacts health, and must be treated for years to come.\n\nOn February 29, 2012, after referencing Fluke's statement that \"contraceptives can cost a woman over $3000 during law school\", Limbaugh stated:\nWhat does it say about the college co-ed Susan Fluke , who goes before a congressional committee and essentially says that she must be paid to have sex, what does that make her? It makes her a slut, right? It makes her a prostitute. She wants to be paid to have sex. She's having so much sex she can't afford the contraception. She wants you and me and the taxpayers to pay her to have sex. What does that make us? We're the pimps. (interruption) The johns? We would be the johns? No! We're not the johns. (interruption) Yeah, that's right. Pimp's not the right word. Okay, so she's not a slut. She's \"round heeled\". I take it back.\n\nHe continued that day and stated:\n\nCan you imagine if you're her parents how proud of Sandra Fluke you would be? Your daughter goes up to a congressional hearing conducted by the Botox-filled Nancy Pelosi and testifies she's having so much sex she can't afford her own birth control pills and she agrees that Obama should provide them, or the Pope.\n\nOn March 1, 2012, Limbaugh offered what he said was a \"compromise\" to contraception coverage: purchasing \"all the women at Georgetown University as much aspirin to put between their knees as possible\". He continued that he \"[ran] some numbers\" on contraception costs and argued that contraception coverage was \"flat-out thievery\" that would force taxpayers to pay to \"satisfy the sexual habits of female law students at Georgetown\". Later, he dismissed concerns over lack of access to contraception coverage and mocked Fluke's congressional testimony, affecting a baby's voice and pretending to cry, saying: \"I'm going broke having sex. I need government to provide me condoms and contraception. It's not fair.\" He asked, \"Ms. Fluke, have you ever heard of not having sex? Have you ever heard of not having sex so often?\" After mentioning that Washington, D.C., Department of Health \"will send you free condoms and lube\", Limbaugh included the \"feminazi\" term he has popularized and said:\nSo, Ms. Fluke and the rest of you feminazis, here's the deal. If we are going to pay for your contraceptives, and thus pay for you to have sex, we want something for it, and I'll tell you what it is. We want you to post the videos online so we can all watch.\n\nDuring the same show, Limbaugh remarked that Fluke is \"having so much sex, it's amazing she can still walk\", and continued on to suggest that Georgetown should establish a \"Wilt Chamberlain scholarship ... exclusively for women\". He also asked, \"Who bought your condoms in junior high? Who bought your condoms in the sixth grade? Or your contraception. Who bought your contraceptive pills in high school?\" He described Fluke as \"a woman who is happily presenting herself as an immoral, baseless, no-purpose-to-her life woman. She wants all the sex in the world whenever she wants it, all the time, no consequences. No responsibility for her behavior.\"\n\nOn March 2, 2012, Limbaugh defended his previous comments about Fluke, saying, \"not one person says that, 'Well, did you ever think about maybe backing off the amount of sex that you have?'\" Limbaugh said that requiring insurance companies to cover contraception is \"no different than if somebody knocked on my door that I don't know and said, 'You know what? I'm out of money. I can't afford birth-control pills, and I'm supposed to have sex with three guys tonight.'\" Limbaugh commented on Fluke receiving a call from President Obama, who stated that her parents should be proud of her, saying, \"I'm gonna button my lip on that one.\" He went on to say that if his daughter had testified that \"she's having so much sex she can't pay for it and wants a new welfare program to pay for it,\" he would be \"embarrassed\" and \"disconnect the phone\", \"go into hiding\", and \"hope the media didn't find me\". He continued later, \"Oh! Does she have more boyfriends? They're lined up around the block. They would have been in my day.\" He continued that Fluke testified that her \"sex life is active. She's having sex so frequently that she can't afford all the birth-control pills that she needs. That's what she's saying.\"\n\nMany public figures and organizations of all political stripes rejected Limbaugh's comments as sexist. Georgetown University president John DeGioia said Limbaugh's description of Fluke was \"misogynistic, vitriolic\"; 130 members of the faculty signed a letter supporting Fluke. The National Organization for Women called Limbaugh a \"bigoted bully\" using \"hate-filled speech\" to \"shame a young woman\" for her views. They also called on Clear Channel to drop his show. Rachel Maddow said Limbaugh was trying to fan outrage, and his attacks seemed to be based on the idea that the cost of birth control pills is proportional to the amount of sexual activity.\n\nPeter Gabriel requested that Limbaugh no longer play his song \"Sledgehammer\" on his show, saying he was \"appalled\" that the song was played while Limbaugh disparaged Fluke. The Fabulous Thunderbirds also requested the use of their songs, including \"Tuff Enuff\", be discontinued on the show. Frontman Kim Wilson was \"mortified by his (Limbaugh's) attack on this young woman.\"\n\nSusan MacMillan Emry, a Californian who previously had not been politically active, founded a public relations campaign called Rock the Slut Vote in response to Limbaugh's comments about Fluke.\n\nDemocrats characterized both the hearing at which Fluke did not testify, and Limbaugh's comments, as part of a \"war on women\", a frequent catchphrase used to refer to what are seen as the Republican Party's restrictions on women's rights.\n\nPresident Barack Obama called Fluke on March 3 to express his support.\n\nMany politicians and pundits responded by calling Limbaugh a \"peculiar individual\", \"despicable\", \"disgusting\", \"loathsome\" and \"a national disgrace\", and deploring hateful and derogatory speech within political discourse. Jesse Ferguson, spokesperson for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said “Limbaugh has come to Republicans' defense in their war on women\".\n\nIn a letter to donors, Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), wrote that \"Rush Limbaugh, the voice of the ultraconservative right, issued one of the most vile tirades against women I've ever heard.\"\n\nMinority Leader in the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi called the comments \"obnoxious\" and \"vicious and inappropriate attacks\".\n\nSeventy-five Democratic Party lawmakers signed a letter expressing outrage at the remarks labeling them as \"sexually charged, patently offensive, obscene\", \"indecent\" and \"an abuse of public airwaves\".\n\nRep. Carolyn B. Maloney called it \"an attempt to silence people that are speaking out for women\".\n\nMichigan state Sen. Gretchen Whitmer asked if Limbaugh would have made similar comments if Fluke had been a man, describing him as a \"chauvinist\" and his words hate speech. She also tied Republicans to Limbaugh.\n\nObama campaign advisor David Axelrod said Limbaugh's comments were \"predicated on a lie\" that taxpayers would have to pay for contraceptive coverage, when in fact it is insurance companies that will have to pay.\n\nDemocratic political analyst for Fox News Kirsten Powers agreed that Limbaugh was a misogynist and deserved to be boycotted, but expanded her position further stating, \"the liberals who led the charge need to start holding their own side accountable.\" She then cited specific examples of crude and vulgar language being directed toward women by Chris Matthews, Ed Schultz, Keith Olbermann, Matt Taibbi, and Bill Maher. Powers went on to say, \"when it comes to high-profile campaigns to hold these men accountable—such as that waged against Limbaugh—the real fury seems reserved only for conservatives.\"\n\nRepublican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney said \"it’s not the language I would have used.\" Fellow Republican primary candidate Rick Santorum dismissed the comments stating that \"an entertainer can be absurd.\" U.S. Congressman Ron Paul (R-Texas), running for the party's presidential nomination, said that Limbaugh's comments were \"over the top\" and that his apology was not sincere, while disagreeing with Fluke on the insurance mandate.\n\nSenator John McCain (R-Arizona), the party's 2008 candidate for president, said Limbaugh's statements were unacceptable \"in every way\" and \"should be condemned\" by people across the political spectrum.\n\nHouse Speaker John Boehner criticized Limbaugh's choice of words while repeating his own opposition to government funding for contraception. Boehner's spokesman issued a statement: \"The [S]peaker obviously believes the use of those words was inappropriate, as is trying to raise money off the situation\".\n\nConservative commentator George Will suggested other Republicans made only mild criticisms because they are afraid of Limbaugh.\n\nDavid Frum, former special assistant to President George W. Bush (emphasis in the original): \"Limbaugh's verbal abuse of Sandra Fluke set a new kind of low. I can't recall \"anything\" as brutal, ugly and deliberate ever being said by such a prominent person and so emphatically repeated. This was not a case of a bad 'word choice'. It was a brutally sexualized accusation, against a specific person, prolonged over three days.\"\n\nOn March 3, Limbaugh repeated his previous attacks against Fluke and insurance coverage for contraception. Later that day he released an apology on his official website:\n\nFor over 20 years, I have illustrated the absurd with absurdity, three hours a day, five days a week. In this instance, I chose the wrong words in my analogy of the situation. I did not mean a personal attack on Ms. Fluke. I think it is absolutely absurd that during these very serious political times, we are discussing personal sexual recreational activities before members of Congress. I personally do not agree that American citizens should pay for these social activities. What happened to personal responsibility and accountability? Where do we draw the line? If this is accepted as the norm, what will follow? Will we be debating if taxpayers should pay for new sneakers for all students that are interested in running to keep fit? In my monologue, I posited that it is not our business whatsoever to know what is going on in anyone's bedroom nor do I think it is a topic that should reach a Presidential level. / My choice of words was not the best, and in the attempt to be humorous, I created a national stir. I sincerely apologize to Ms. Fluke for the insulting word choices.\n\nOn March 5, 2012, Limbaugh repeated parts of his apology on his show, but criticized the reaction he received, saying: I acted too much like the leftists who despise me. I descended to their level, using names and exaggerations. It's what we've come to expect from them, but it's way beneath me.\n\nThe same day, Fluke responded to his latest apology on ABC's \"The View\" saying: I don't think that a statement like this, saying that his choice of words was not the best, changes anything, and especially when that statement is issued when he's under significant pressure from his sponsors who have begun to pull their support from the show. / I think any woman who has ever been called these types of names is [shocked] at first. / But then I tried to see this for what it is, and I believe that what it is, is an attempt to silence me, to silence the millions of women and the men who support them who have been speaking out about this issue and conveying that contraception is an important healthcare need that they need to have met in an affordable, accessible way. She said Limbaugh's comments were not of \"one person who went crazy\" but that \"he insulted me more than 50 times over three days\".\n\nSix months after the controversy began, in response to Fluke's being considered for Time's Person of the Year, Limbaugh said in part that his comments were a mistake: \"If anybody is going to be named Person of the Year on that basis, it ought to be me. It’s not an 'honor' I would appreciate because it represents a little bit of a screw up.\" ... \"Nobody would know who she is if it weren’t for me.\"\n\nIn response to Limbaugh's remarks several online and social media campaigns were created such as a Flush Rush group on Facebook and the Stop Rush database. As a result, by March 3, over a dozen advertisers had discontinued their sponsorship. After Limbaugh's apology, the exodus slowed but did not stop, with competing number counts in the dozens. Several advertisers also clarified that they \"did not intentionally advertise\" on the show, either running ads in news segments next to the Limbaugh show or being held responsible for local affiliates' local buys. Two stations, KPUA, a talk radio station serving Hilo, Hawaii, and broadcaster WBEC in Pittsfield, Massachusetts discontinued their broadcasts of the Rush Limbaugh show.\n\nClear Channel Communications, the owner of Premiere Networks and a large number of Limbaugh's affiliates, has reaffirmed its support for Limbaugh, whose contract runs through 2016.\n\nOn March 9, Politico estimated that Limbaugh's talk show had lost 45 sponsors, a number that includes advertisers that purchased ad time on local stations but had never bought national advertising on the show itself.\n\nRadio competitors Cumulus Media Networks tried to lure advertisers and stations away from the Limbaugh show, during the crisis, hinting that numbers of affiliates had agreed to drop the program in favor of \"The Mike Huckabee Show\". On March 19, they released a list of all 31 advertisers that they identified as having specifically dropped Limbaugh's program.\n\nClear Channel lifted its two-week moratorium on using barter advertising during the show on March 26. Thereafter, Kohler and Reputation.com pulled advertising.\n\nA March 28 post-mortem on the end of the campaign by \"The Washington Post\" concluded:\n\nExactly one month after the conservative radio host sparked outrage ... stations are standing by him, advertisers are trickling back to his program and the news media have moved on ... Angelo Carusone, who has been leading the anti-Limbaugh efforts for Media Matters for America, a Washington organization ... acknowledged that outrage is hard to sustain.\n\nMedia Matters began a paid ad campaign on March 22 to sustain their online campaign against Limbaugh. The group spent over $100,000 in various markets, to encourage more stations to drop the Limbaugh show. Limbaugh countered, \"Media Matters and the Democrat National Committee and the Democrat Party are exposing ... that their Astroturf campaigns are not grassroots at all... They are totally professionally created and executed Democrat Party opposition research-type attacks.\" Clear Channel's CEO said there has been no major move among stations to drop the show.\n\nLimbaugh earned an unlikely ally when Ed Schultz, the nation's most widely syndicated progressive talk radio host, came out in opposition to the boycott and urged Media Matters to drop its efforts, which Media Matters refused to do. According to Schultz, \"If we start attacking advertisers because of what somebody said — it’s the wrong thing to do (...) There’s a lot of people getting hurt. This is going to too far.\" Thom Hartmann, another progressive talk host who competes in Limbaugh's time slot (and who is heard on many of the same stations as Schultz), noted that the Media Matters campaign had caused the unintended consequence of driving sponsors away from not just Limbaugh, but political talk in general, including progressive talk, in an interview with the talk show \"Reliable Sources\" in August 2013.\n\nLew Dickey, the CEO of Cumulus Media Networks, stated that it cost his company \"a couple of million bucks in the first quarter and a couple of million bucks in quarter two.\" He claimed that the losses accounted for one percent of the 3.5 percent loss in revenue that Cumulus suffered over this period. He said things looked like they would be back to normal in June. Limbaugh announced that when his 2013 contract with Cumulus expires, he would revisit dropping the distributor, due to Dickey's repeated attempts to blame ratings problem on the Limbaugh show. In June 2013, Premiere, Limbaugh's primary distributor, stated that his advertising sales were recovering well.\n\nThe advertiser boycott effectively created a blacklist of stations that carry Limbaugh's program, and other shows on those stations were adversely affected; advertisers were unwilling to advertise on a show on the same station, lest its barter advertisements (commercials that air at a different time of day) be heard on Limbaugh's program. Fox News Radio and the Wall Street Journal Radio Network, both of which share a majority of their affiliates with Limbaugh's, both lost an estimated 40% of their revenues due to being carried on many of the same stations as Limbaugh; the revenue loss forced the latter network to fold in December 2014. This station blacklist was also speculated as the impetus behind a number of affiliate changes Limbaugh experienced over the following several years, as stations were unable to sell enough airtime on a blacklisted station to cover Limbaugh's very high rights fee; ownership groups were thus forced to spin Limbaugh and other blacklisted programs (the \"Glenn Beck Radio Program\", also distributed by Premiere and itself the subject of boycotts) off to less prominent stations and clear their schedules of controversial programming to get off the blacklist.\n"}
{"id": "10469460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10469460", "title": "Russian soul", "text": "Russian soul\n\nThe term Russian soul (, \"Rússkaya dushá\"; also \"great Russian soul\", \"mystifying Russian soul\") has been used in literature to describe Russian identity. The writings of many Russian writers such as Nikolai Gogol, Leo Tolstoy and Fyodor Dostoyevsky offer descriptions of the Russian soul. \n\nThe concept of a Russian soul arose in the 1840s chiefly as a literary phenomenon. Famous author Nikolai Gogol and literary critic Vissarion Belinskii jointly coined the term upon the publication of Gogol’s masterpiece \"Dead Souls\" in 1842. At the time landowners often referred to their serfs as “souls” for accounting purposes, and the novel’s title refers to the protagonist’s scheme of purchasing claims to deceased serfs. Apart from this literal meaning, however, Gogol also intended the title as an observation of landowners’ loss of soul in exploiting serfs.\n\nVissarion Belinskii, a notedly radical critic, took Gogol’s intentions a few steps farther and inferred from the novel a new recognition of a national soul, existing apart from the government and founded in the lives of the lower class. Indeed, Belinskii used the term “Russian soul” several times in his analyses of Gogol’s work, and from there the phrase grew in prominence, and eventually became more clearly defined through the writings of authors such as Fyodor Dostoyevsky. This famous brand of nationalism, however, was the product of a continuous effort by Russia’s various classes to define a national identity.\n\nGogol and his contemporaries established literature as Russia’s new weapon of choice, the tool by which it could inform itself of its greatness and urge the nation to its destined position as a world leader. Gogol may not have had such grand notions, but with the help of Vissarion Belinsky he paved the way for a new concept of Russian identity - the great Russian soul. As opposed to the preceding “Russian spirit” (Русский дух), which focused on Russia’s past, “Russian soul” was an expression of optimism. It stressed Russia’s historical youth and its ability, by following the wisdom of the peasant, to become the savior of the world. Indeed, although the concept of the Russian soul grew upon Western ideas, its advocates believed that Russia had made those ideas its own and would use them to save Europe from itself.\n\nThe Russian soul evolved and entered into Western consciousness in the following decades, most famously through the work of Fyodor Dostoyevsky. In his novels and stories, Dostoyevsky exhibited an often anti-European nationalism and frequently suggested a \"people's spirit\" held together by \"unexpressed, unconscious ideas which are merely strongly felt\". By Dostoyevsky's death in 1881, the \"Russian soul\" had completed its evolution in Russia.\n\nFrom about 1880 to 1930, largely thanks to Dostoyevsky, the \"Russian soul\" concept spread to other countries and began to affect foreign perception of the Russian people. For many Europeans the idea offered a positive alternative to the typical view of Russians as backward, instead depicting the Russian people as an example of the innocence the West had lost. The popularity of the \"Russian soul\" continued into the 20th century but faded as Soviet power increased. By the 1930s the concept was slipping into obscurity, but it would survive in the work of the numerous writers who devised it.\n"}
{"id": "1558322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1558322", "title": "Sexual frustration", "text": "Sexual frustration\n\nSexual frustration in humans is frustration caused by a discrepancy between a person's desired and achieved sexual activity. It may result from a variety of circumstances including physical, mental, emotional, social, or religious/spiritual barriers. It may also derive from not being satisfied during sex, which may be due to issues such as anorgasmia, anaphrodisia, premature ejaculation, delayed ejaculation, erectile dysfunction, or an incompatibility or discrepancy in libido.\n\nSexual frustration can result from an individual's lacking one or more of the organs needed for sexual release but still having one or more of the organs that cause a sex-drive. For males it could be that they have testicles and no penis; a male might be born without a penis (aphallia) or be born with one and have it removed (penis removal or penectomy). Men can still ejaculate via prostate stimulation in that case. For females they might not have a clitoris which causes sexual pleasure; a female might have had her clitoris forcibly severed (female genital mutilation) or voluntarily removed (female circumcusion) as part of a medical procedure.\n\nInvoluntary celibacy is a form of sexual frustration.\n\n"}
{"id": "4440157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4440157", "title": "Southwestern Mandarin", "text": "Southwestern Mandarin\n\nSouthwestern Mandarin (), also known as Upper Yangtze Mandarin (), is a primary branch of Mandarin Chinese spoken in much of central and southwestern China, including in Sichuan, Yunnan, Chongqing, Guizhou, most parts of Hubei, the northwestern part of Hunan, the northern part of Guangxi, and some southern parts of Shaanxi and Gansu. Some forms of Southwest Mandarin are not entirely mutually intelligible with Standard Chinese or other forms of Mandarin.\n\nVarieties of Southwestern Mandarin are spoken by roughly 260 million people. If considered a language distinct from Mandarin, it would have the eighth-most native speakers in the world, behind Mandarin itself, Spanish, English, Hindi, Portuguese, Arabic and Bengali.\n\nModern Southwestern Mandarin was formed by the waves of immigrants brought to the regions during the Ming and Qing Dynasties. Because of this comparatively recent move, these dialects show more similarity to modern Standard Mandarin than to other varieties of Chinese like Cantonese or Hokkien. For example, like most southern Chinese dialects, Southwestern Mandarin does not possess the retroflex consonants (zh, ch, sh, r) of Standard Mandarin, but nor does it retain the checked tone, as most southern dialects do. The Chengdu-Chongqing and Hubei dialects are believed to reflect aspects of the Mandarin \"lingua franca\" spoken during the Ming. However, some scholars believe its origins may be more similar to Lower Yangtze Mandarin.\nThough part of the Mandarin group, Southwestern Mandarin has many striking and pronounced differences with Standard Mandarin such that, until 1955, it was generally categorized alongside Cantonese and Wu Chinese as a branch of Chinese varieties.\n\nSouthwestern Mandarin is commonly spoken in Kokang district in northern Myanmar, where the population consists largely of the Kokang. Southwestern Mandarin is also one of two official languages of the Wa State, an unrecognized autonomous state within Myanmar, alongside the Wa language. Because Wa has no written form, Chinese is the official working language of the Wa State government. Some of its speakers, known as the Chin Haw, live in Thailand. It is also spoken in parts of Northern Vietnam. Ethnic minorities in Vietnam's Lào Cai province used to speak Southwestern Mandarin to each other when their languages were not mutually intelligible. Southwestern Mandarin is also used between different ethnic minorities in Yunnan and Guangxi.\n\nMost Southwestern Mandarin dialects have, like Standard Mandarin, only retained four of the original eight tones of Middle Chinese. However, the entering tone has completely merged with the light-level tone in most Southwestern dialects, while in Standard Mandarin it is seemingly randomly dispersed among the remaining tones.\n\nSouthwestern Mandarin dialects do not possess the retroflex consonants of Standard Mandarin, but otherwise share most Mandarin phonological features. Most have lost the distinction between the nasal consonant /n/ and the lateral consonant /l/ and the nasal finals /-n/ and /-ŋ/. For example, the sounds \"la\" and \"na\" are generally indistinguishable, as well as the sounds \"fen\" and \"feng\". Some varieties also lack a distinction between the labiodental /f/ and the glottal /h/.\n\nSouthwestern Mandarin was classified into twelve dialect groups in the \"Language Atlas of China\":\n\n"}
{"id": "58942109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58942109", "title": "Tanga people", "text": "Tanga people\n\nTanga people are a tribe of a Papua New Guinea that live in the Tanga Islands and Feni Islands of Tanir Rural LLG and three villages (Sena,Muliama and Warangansau) in the Matalai Rural LLG of Namatanai District of New Ireland Province. The people are closely related to the Tolai people and Sursurunga people of New Ireland and they speak the Tangga language which has since been split into three separate languages which are now being spoken by the Tangans and they are Niwer Mil language, Warwar Feni language and Fanamaket language. Their population according to the 2011 Papua New Guinea Census Report is 9,033 people. Tubuan, Sokapana and Ingiet are the secret societies practised by the Tanga people. F.L.S. Bell has a collection on Tanga Island in the University of Sydney Library in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "45326094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45326094", "title": "The First Civil Right", "text": "The First Civil Right\n\nThe First Civil Right: How Liberals Built Prison America is a 2014 non-fiction book by political scientist Naomi Murakawa, who is a professor of African American studies at Princeton University. The book addresses causes of the rapid increase in U.S. incarceration rates since the 1970s and of racial inequality in the U.S. prison system. Specifically, Murakawa traces the role of liberal politicians, particularly national-level Democrats, in shaping racially unequal incarceration policies. For the book, Murakawa was awarded the Michael Harrington Book Award by the New Political Science section of the APSA in 2015.\n\nMurakawa's approach specifically \"discounts intentions, recognizing that racial power is not necessarily exerted by will.\" Instead the book investigates differing forms of racism and how they have functionally influenced the U.S. prison system.\n\nAccording to Murakawa, Democratic efforts to professionalize the U.S. justice system in response to racial bias in policing effectively contributed to that racially discriminatory policing and imprisonment practices. Examples discussed include the Boggs Act of 1952 and the Narcotic Control Act of 1956 which both created mandatory sentencing, a policy that would entail racial inequality during the War on Drugs. More recently, Bill Clinton's 1994 Omnibus Crime Bill, which was heavily supported by Joe Biden, expanded the federal death penalty and minimum sentencing, which has been disproportionately applied to racial minorities. Minimum sentencing and drug laws have also significantly increased incarceration rates for nonviolent offenders.\n\nMurakawa notes that the term \"the first civil right\" was first used in the Truman administration to refer to the right to be protected from violence, specifically Black protection from White supremacist violence, but the term was later popularized by Nixon to implicitly mean protection of White people from Black people.\n\n"}
{"id": "3775373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3775373", "title": "The National Society of the Colonial Dames of America", "text": "The National Society of the Colonial Dames of America\n\nThe National Society of the Colonial Dames of America is an American organization composed of women who are descended from an ancestor \"who came to reside in an American Colony before 1776, and whose services were rendered during the Colonial Period.\" The organization has 45 corporate societies and over 15,000 members. The national headquarters are at Dumbarton House in Georgetown, Washington, D.C.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1891, shortly after the founding of a similar society, the Colonial Dames of America (CDA). The main difference between the two is that the CDA was created to have a centrally organized structure under the control of the parent Society in New York City.\n\nThe NSCDA was intended as a federation of State Societies in which each unit had a degree of autonomy. Another society formed around the same time was the Daughters of the American Revolution. Organized following the United States Centennial of 1876 and a Centennial in New York in 1889 (celebrating the Constitution), they built on renewed interest in America's past to work for preservation of historic collections and buildings, and education related to United States history. The NSCDA has been a leader in the field of historic preservation, restoration and the interpretation of historic sites since its New York Society first undertook the preservation of the Van Cortlandt House in 1897.\n\nIn November 2000, the NSCDA received the prestigious Trustee Emeritus Award for Excellence in the Stewardship of historic sites from the National Trust for Historic Preservation. Today 41 diverse properties are owned outright by the Corporate Societies of the NSCDA, 13 additional museum collections are owned by the Dames and 30 more properties receive substantial volunteer and financial support from Dames.\n\nThe NSCDA has a regular periodical, the \"Dames Dispatch\".\n\nThe organization includes 45 Corporate Societies with over 15,000 members. The Society headquarters is located at Dumbarton House (pictured below), in Washington, D.C. In addition to its broad based activities in the museum field, the Society sponsors a number of scholarship programs and other historic preservation, patriotic service and educational projects to further the aims and objects of the Society. Historic house museums owned or operated by the NSCDA, include:\nA more complete listing, with links to many of the state societies and their historic properties, is included on the official website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53360335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53360335", "title": "Tofu Curtain", "text": "Tofu Curtain\n\nThe Tofu Curtain is a cultural or socioeconomic divide between two geographic regions and the people who reside in them, using tofu as a symbol of lifestyle and political leanings. The term was coined to identify trends on either side of a county line in the Pioneer Valley along the Connecticut River in Massachusetts, and has also been widely used similarly with regards to gentrifying neighborhoods in Melbourne, Australia. While the Tofu Curtain most often refers to these regions of Victoria and Western Massachusetts, other tofu curtains have been named along similar socioeconomic, educational, and/or ethno-racial divides in various locations around the globe\n\nThe term derives from the political and ideological Iron Curtain that separated communist Eastern Bloc countries from Western Europe during the Cold War. \"Tofu\" implies a high proportion of vegetarians reside on one side of the divide, and associates left wing politics with vegetarianism.\n\nThe line of the Tofu Curtain runs roughly east-west along the Holyoke Range. To the north is wealthier Hampshire County, home to the Five College Consortium of Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke and Smith Colleges, and the University of Massachusetts. To the south is Hampden County, comprising the mostly working class cities of Holyoke and Springfield, and their surrounding towns. While this southern part of the Massachusetts' Pioneer Valley is the second largest metropolitan region in the state, areas of it are economically depressed, with a deficit of available jobs and average household incomes ranging from $14,000 to $24,000 annually. Meanwhile, the more rural and collegiate areas to the north are home to a preponderance of worker cooperatives and small businesses that often manufacture and sell natural products (such as tofu) to a more affluent population.\n\nWhile the Tofu Curtain's distinction is based on U.S. Census data and the repute of the two counties on either side of the Holyoke Range, their demographics are not absolute. Hampshire County being framed as \"more collegiate\" than Hampden either ignores the presence of the nine additional colleges and universities in the Springfield metropolitan area's Knowledge Corridor or regards these educational institutions as inferior to those of the Five College Consortium. In addition to being populated by affluent residents and college students, economic disparities exist within Northampton, resulting in neighborhood rifts on that side of the Tofu Curtain. Despite the presence of a wealthy college and huge university, 2016 data showed that 50% of Amherst children received free or reduced lunches at public school on the criterion of living in low-income households. Likewise, Hampden county's large working class and Puerto Rican populations have been active in community organizing and progressive politics, activities often associated with the culture of the college towns to the north. The assertion that there is a Tofu Curtain has also been a rallying point for people living and working on both sides of the county line to create equitable systems of food sovereignty, workplace democracy, and environmental justice as means to destratify the region economically while uniting it politically.\n\nPeople use the term \"tofu curtain\" to describe a similar sociopolitical phenomenon outside of Western Massachusetts. Those residing in other politically or ecologically progressive regions of New England, such as Cambridge, Massachusetts, or the entire state of Vermont, are sometimes posited as living \"behind the Tofu Curtain.\" Likewise, the term is used pejoratively by those wanting to deplore what they see as a liberal agenda, and posts referring to California as being \"behind the tofu curtain\" proliferate online forums that support expanding freedoms for civilian gun use.\n\nTofu curtain can also be used to describe an ideological situation, not specific to the geographies of neighborhood or county lines. In a 2003 essay, Paul Gilroy described a political speak-out on a university campus and used the term \"tofu curtain\" as a metaphor for petty factionalizations among different strains of student activism:\n\nAs peace rallies proliferate, the campus left will have to tear down the tofu curtain and dig itself out from underneath the wreckage of identity politics so narcissistic and short-sighted that it reproduces the political solipsism and imperialistic indifference that are usually associated with power and privilege.\n\nSimilarly the Inter-Cooperative Council at the University of Michigan has named a dietary split between vegetarians and meat-eaters within its membership \"The Tofu Curtain.\" At one point an agreement among the co-ops made the split geographical, marked by a particular corner in Ann Arbor with all co-op houses on one side having \"veggie\" and on the other side \"carnie\" kitchens. The Ann Arbor co-ops were using the term as early as 1984.\n\nIn Australia's 2016 federal election, voters south of Bell Street in Melbourne's northern suburb of Brunswick voted overwhelmingly for the Green Party and those to the north went for the Labor Party. While the neighborhoods that voted Labor still lean left politically, they tend to be more working class, and the gentrified neighborhoods of Brunswick and North Melbourne went Green. The split helped nickname Bell Street the Tofu Curtain, and other nicknames proliferated, including \"The Corduroy Line,\" \"The Latte Line,\" \"The Great Wall of Quinoa,\" and \"The Hipster-Proof Fence\", evoking Australia's famed \"rabbit-proof fence\" of the early 20th century. In 2018 the term was used pejoratively by Australia's fossil fuel industry to divide Green Party and Labor activists from organizing together against expansion of coal mining and gas drilling.\n\nBecause tofu originated in China, Japan, Korea, and other regions of East Asia, the term \"tofu curtain\" has also described differences between eastern and western culture. A 2007 study conducted by the United Nations's Food and Agriculture Organization showed that in one year China consumed nearly 100 times the amount of soybeans per person over the United States, while the Japan-to-U.S. per capita rate of consumption was more than 200-to-1. and that same year the Food and Agriculture Organization Corporate Statistical Database revealed that Korea's soy consumption rate fell about midway between Japan's and China's. 2013 data showed these proportions to be about the same, with Taiwan consuming the highest amount of soyfoods per capita at a rate 15% higher than that of Japan's. While ethnicity and diet are considerations in this particular usage, political leanings are a lessor factor on the Asian side of the curtain, as tofu is a dietary staple in Asia and therefore not associated with particular political parties, movements, or factions.\n\nIn September 2016 Western Massachusetts residents launched \"TofuCurtain.com\", a site for \"Satire and Commentary in the Pioneer Valley.\" Among the site's earliest stories were \"Recent Graduate Will Shave, Cut Hair After Finding Job,\" \"WikiLeaks Release Reveals Town of Hadley Extremely Boring,\" \"Hampshire College Replaces American Flag with 'For Sale' Sign,\" and \"New Privilege Checkpoint at Coolidge Bridge raises Traffic Concerns. By the end of 2018, the website no longer existed.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5747492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5747492", "title": "Tsakhur people", "text": "Tsakhur people\n\nThe Tsakhur or Caxur (, ) people are an ethnic group of northern Azerbaijan and southern Dagestan (Russia). They number about 30,000 and call themselves \"yiqy\" (pl. \"yiqby\"), but are generally known by the name \"Tsakhur\", which derives from the name of a Dagestani village, where they make up the majority.\n\nTsakhurs are first mentioned in the 7th-century Armenian and Georgian sources where they are named \"Tsakhaik\". After the conquest of Caucasian Albania by the Arabs, Tsakhurs formed a semi-independent state (later a sultanate) of Tsuketi and southwestern Dagestan. By the 11th century, Tsakhurs who had mostly been Christian, converted to Islam. From the 15th century some began moving south across the mountains to what is now the Zaqatala District of Azerbaijan. In the 18th century the capital of the state moved south from Tsakhur in Dagestan to İlisu and came to be called the Elisu Sultanate. West of the Sultanate Tsakhurs formed the Djaro-Belokani free communities. The sultanate was in the sphere of influence of the Shaki Khanate. It became part of the Russian Empire by the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nTsakhurs live in Azerbaijan's Zaqatala region, where they make up 14% of the population, and in Gakh, where they constitute less than 2%. In Dagestan, they live in the mountainous parts of the Rutulsky district. According to Wolfgang Schulze, there are 9 villages in Azerbaijan, where Tsakhurs make up the majority of the population, all of them in Zaqatala. 13 more villages in Zaqatala and Gakh have a significant Tsakhur minority.\n\nMost Tsakhurs speak the Tsakhur language as their native language. The rate of bilingualism in Tsakhur and Azeri is high. Other languages popular among Tsakhurs include Russian and Lezgian.\n\n"}
{"id": "18827534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18827534", "title": "Wattie Holm", "text": "Wattie Holm\n\nRoscoe Albert Holm (December 28, 1901 – May 19, 1950) was a Major League Baseball player. Holm played for the St. Louis Cardinals in his seven-year career. He played from to , missing the and seasons. Holm was also a member of the Cardinals first World Series in 1926. He batted and threw right-handed.\n\nHolm was born in Peterson, Iowa, and died in 1950 in Everly, Iowa. He committed suicide by shooting himself, after shooting his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "9273237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9273237", "title": "World energy resources", "text": "World energy resources\n\nWorld energy resources are the estimated maximum capacity for energy production given all available resources on Earth. They can be divided by type into fossil fuel, nuclear fuel and renewable resources.\n\nRemaining reserves of fossil fuel are estimated as:\n\nThese are the proven energy reserves; real reserves may be up to a factor 4 larger. Significant uncertainty exists for these numbers. Estimating the remaining fossil fuels on the planet depends on a detailed understanding of Earth's crust. While modern drilling technology makes it possible to drill wells in up to 3 km of water to verify the exact composition of the geology, one half of the ocean is deeper than 3 km, leaving about a third of the planet beyond the reach of detailed analysis.\n\nIn addition to uncertainty in real reserves, there is significant uncertainty in technological and economical factors that impact what percentage of reserves can be recovered gainfully. In general the easiest to reach deposits are the first extracted. Factors affecting the cost of exploiting the remaining reserves include the accessibility of fossil deposits, the level of sulfur and other pollutants in the oil and the coal, transportation costs, and societal instability in producing regions.\n\nCoal is the most abundant and burned fossil fuel. This was the fuel that launched the industrial revolution and has continued to grow in use; China, which already has many of the world's most polluted cities, was in 2007 building about two coal-fired power plants every week. Coal is the fastest growing fossil fuel and its large reserves would make it a popular candidate to meet the energy demand of the global community, short of global warming concerns and other pollutants. According to the International Energy Agency the proven reserves of coal are around 909 billion tonnes, which could sustain the current production rate for 155 years, although at a 5% growth per annum this would be reduced to 45 years, or until 2051. With the Fischer–Tropsch process it is possible to make liquid fuels such as diesel and jet fuel from coal. In the United States, 49% of electricity generation comes from burning coal.\n\nNatural gas is a widely available fossil fuel with estimated 850 000 km³ in recoverable reserves and at least that much more using enhanced methods to release shale gas. Improvements in technology and wide exploration led to a major increase in recoverable natural gas reserves as shale fracking methods were developed. At present usage rates, natural gas could supply most of the world's energy needs for between 100 and 250 years, depending on increase in consumption over time.\n\nIt is estimated that there may be 57 ZJ of oil reserves on Earth (although estimates vary from a low of 8 ZJ, consisting of currently proven and recoverable reserves, to a maximum of 110 ZJ) consisting of available, but not necessarily recoverable reserves, and including optimistic estimates for unconventional sources such as oil sands and oil shale. Current consensus among the 18 recognized estimates of supply profiles is that the peak of extraction will occur in 2020 at the rate of 93-million barrels per day (mbd). Current oil consumption is at the rate of 0.18 ZJ per year (31.1 billion barrels) or 85 mbd.\n\nThere is growing concern that peak oil production may be reached in the near future, resulting in severe oil price increases. A 2005 French Economics, Industry and Finance Ministry report suggested a worst-case scenario that could occur as early as 2013. There are also theories that peak of the global oil production may occur in as little as 2–3 years. The ASPO predicts peak year to be in 2010. Some other theories present the view that it has already taken place in 2005. World crude oil production (including lease condensates) according to US EIA data decreased from a peak of 73.720 mbd in 2005 to 73.437 in 2006, 72.981 in 2007, and 73.697 in 2008. According to peak oil theory, increasing production will lead to a more rapid collapse of production in the future, while decreasing production will lead to a slower decrease, as the bell-shaped curve will be spread out over more years.\n\nIn a stated goal of increasing oil prices to $75/barrel, which had fallen from a high of $147 to a low of $40, OPEC announced decreasing production by 2.2 mbd beginning 1 January 2009.\n\nPolitical considerations over the security of supplies, environmental concerns related to global warming and sustainability are expected to move the world's energy consumption away from fossil fuels. The concept of peak oil shows that about half of the available petroleum resources have been produced, and predicts a decrease of production.\n\nA government moves away from fossil fuels would most likely create economic pressure through carbon emissions and green taxation. Some countries are taking action as a result of the Kyoto Protocol, and further steps in this direction are proposed. For example, the European Commission has proposed that the energy policy of the European Union should set a binding target of increasing the level of renewable energy in the EU's overall mix from less than 7% in 2007 to 20% by 2020.\n\nThe antithesis of sustainability is a disregard for limits, commonly referred to as the Easter Island Effect, which is the concept of being unable to develop sustainability, resulting in the depletion of natural resources. Some estimate that, assuming current consumption rates, current oil reserves could be completely depleted by 2050.\n\nThe International Atomic Energy Agency estimates the remaining uranium resources to be equal to 2500 ZJ. This assumes the use of breeder reactors, which are able to create more fissile material than they consume. IPCC estimated currently proved economically recoverable uranium deposits for once-through fuel cycles reactors to be only 2 ZJ. The ultimately recoverable uranium is estimated to be 17 ZJ for once-through reactors and 1000 ZJ with reprocessing and fast breeder reactors.\n\nResources and technology do not constrain the capacity of nuclear power to contribute to meeting the energy demand for the 21st century. However, political and environmental concerns about nuclear safety and radioactive waste started to limit the growth of this energy supply at the end of last century, particularly due to a number of nuclear accidents. Concerns about nuclear proliferation (especially with plutonium produced by breeder reactors) mean that the development of nuclear power by countries such as Iran and Syria is being actively discouraged by the international community.\n\nAlthough at the beginning of the 21st century uranium is the primary nuclear fuel worldwide, others such as thorium and hydrogen had been under investigation since the middle of the 20th century.\n\nThorium reserves significantly exceed those of uranium, and of course hydrogen is abundant. It is also considered by many to be easier to obtain than uranium. While uranium mines are enclosed underground and thus very dangerous for the miners, thorium is taken from open pits, and is estimated to be roughly three times as abundant as uranium in the Earth's crust.\n\nSince the 1960s, numerous facilities throughout the world have burned Thorium.\n\nAlternatives for energy production through fusion of hydrogen has been under investigation since the 1950s. No materials can withstand the temperatures required to ignite the fuel, so it must be confined by methods which use no materials. Magnetic and inertial confinement are the main alternatives (Cadarache, Inertial confinement fusion) both of which are hot research topics in the early years of the 21st century.\n\nFusion power is the process driving the sun and other stars. It generates large quantities of heat by fusing the nuclei of hydrogen or helium isotopes, which may be derived from seawater. The heat can theoretically be harnessed to generate electricity. The temperatures and pressures needed to sustain fusion make it a very difficult process to control. Fusion is theoretically able to supply vast quantities of energy, with relatively little pollution. Although both the United States and the European Union, along with other countries, are supporting fusion research (such as investing in the ITER facility), according to one report, inadequate research has stalled progress in fusion research for the past 20 years.\n\nRenewable resources are available each year, unlike non-renewable resources, which are eventually depleted. A simple comparison is a coal mine and a forest. While the forest could be depleted, if it is managed it represents a continuous supply of energy, vs. the coal mine, which once has been exhausted is gone. Most of earth's available energy resources are renewable resources. Renewable resources account for more than 93 percent of total U.S. energy reserves. Annual renewable resources were multiplied times thirty years for comparison with non-renewable resources. In other words, if all non-renewable resources were uniformly exhausted in 30 years, they would only account for 7 percent of available resources each year, if all available renewable resources were developed.\n\nRenewable energy sources are even larger than the traditional fossil fuels and in theory can easily supply the world's energy needs. 89 PW of solar power falls on the planet's surface. While it is not possible to capture all, or even most, of this energy, capturing less than 0.02% would be enough to meet the current energy needs. Barriers to further solar generation include the high price of making solar cells and reliance on weather patterns to generate electricity. Also, current solar generation does not produce electricity at night, which is a particular problem in high northern and southern latitude countries; energy demand is highest in winter, while availability of solar energy is lowest. This could be overcome by buying power from countries closer to the equator during winter months, and may also be addressed with technological developments such as the development of inexpensive energy storage. Globally, solar generation is the fastest growing source of energy, seeing an annual average growth of 35% over the past few years. Japan, Europe, China, U.S. and India are the major growing investors in solar energy. Solar power's share of worldwide electricity usage at the end of 2014 was 1%.\n\nThe available wind energy estimates range from 300 TW to 870 TW. Using the lower estimate, just 5% of the available wind energy would supply the current worldwide energy needs. Most of this wind energy is available over the open ocean. The oceans cover 71% of the planet and wind tends to blow more strongly over open water because there are fewer obstructions.\n\nAt the end of 2005, 0.3 GW of electricity was produced by tidal power. Due to the tidal forces created by the Moon (68%) and the Sun (32%), and the Earth's relative rotation with respect to Moon and Sun, there are fluctuating tides. These tidal fluctuations result in dissipation at an average rate of about 3.7 TW.\n\nAnother physical limitation is the energy available in the tidal fluctuations of the oceans, which is about 0.6 EJ (exajoule). Note this is only a tiny fraction of the total rotational energy of the Earth. Without forcing, this energy would be dissipated (at a dissipation rate of 3.7 TW) in about four semi-diurnal tide periods. So, dissipation plays a significant role in the tidal dynamics of the oceans. Therefore, this limits the available tidal energy to around 0.8 TW (20% of the dissipation rate) in order not to disturb the tidal dynamics too much. \n\nWaves are derived from wind, which is in turn derived from solar energy, and at each conversion there is a drop of about two orders of magnitude in available energy. The total power of waves that wash against the earth's shores adds up to 3 TW.\n\nEstimates of exploitable worldwide geothermal energy resources vary considerably, depending on assumed investments in technology and exploration and guesses about geological formations. According to a 1999 study, it was thought that this might amount to between 65 and 138 GW of electrical generation capacity 'using enhanced technology'. Other estimates range from 35 to 2000 GW of electrical generation capacity, with a further potential for 140 EJ/year of direct use.\n\nA 2006 report by MIT that took into account the use of Enhanced Geothermal Systems (EGS) concluded that it would be affordable to generate 100 GWe (gigawatts of electricity) or more by 2050, just in the United States, for a maximum investment of 1 billion US dollars in research and development over 15 years. The MIT report calculated the world's total EGS resources to be over 13 YJ, of which over 200 ZJ would be extractable, with the potential to increase this to over 2 YJ with technology improvements - sufficient to provide all the world's energy needs for several millennia. The total heat content of the Earth is 13,000,000 YJ.\n\nProduction of biomass and biofuels are growing industries as interest in sustainable fuel sources is growing. Utilizing waste products avoids a food vs fuel trade-off, and burning methane gas reduces greenhouse gas emissions, because even though it releases carbon dioxide, carbon dioxide is 23 times less of a greenhouse gas than is methane. Biofuels represent a sustainable partial replacement for fossil fuels, but their net impact on greenhouse gas emissions depends on the agricultural practices used to grow the plants used as feedstock to create the fuels. While it is widely believed that biofuels can be carbon-neutral, there is evidence that biofuels produced by current farming methods are substantial net carbon emitters. Geothermal and biomass are the only two renewable energy sources that require careful management to avoid local depletion.\n\nIn 2005, hydroelectric power supplied 16.4% of world electricity, down from 21.0% in 1973, but only 2.2% of the world's energy.\n"}
