{"id": "48754470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48754470", "title": "ARA Capital", "text": "ARA Capital\n\nARA Capital (acronym for Arkadiy Romanovich Abramovich) is a British registered company created in 2017 to manage assets owned by the Russian businessman Arkadiy Abramovich. Assets under management included major stakes in e-commerce and gas, oil company Gazprom Neft.\n\nARA Capital is based in London in England.\n\nARA Capital realizes investments in several sectors in particular that of the e-commerce business, gas and the oil. The company also develops in Australia on the market of the stock exchange and the actions.\n\nIt is an owner of actions in several European societies such as LVMH, Hermes or still Chateau Cheval Blanc.\n\nARA Capital is an owner of several companies. It holds in particular :\n"}
{"id": "3054108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3054108", "title": "Advocatus", "text": "Advocatus\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the Latin word advocatus (in English, advocate; in French \"avoué\"; in German, \"Vogt\") was a general term for any person called (\"ad vocatus\") to defend another, such as a lawyer or an \"advocatus ecclesiae\", usually a lay lord charged with the protecting a particular church.\n\nThe \"advocatus\" as an officer of a court of law first appears in the 12th and 13th centuries, concomitant with the rediscovery of Roman law.\n\nThe term \"advocatus ecclesiae\", literally \"advocate of the church\", is the Latin title of certain persons whose duty it was, under given conditions, to represent a particular church or monastery, and to defend its rights against force. These advocates were specially bound to represent their clients before the secular courts. They exercised civil jurisdiction in the domain of the church or monastery, and were bound to protect the church with arms in the event of actual assault. Finally, it was their duty to lead the men-at-arms in the name of the church or monastery, and to command them in time of war. In return for these services the advocate received certain definite revenues from the possessions of the church, in the form of supplies or services, which he could demand, or in the form of a lien on the church property.\n\nSuch advocates are to be found even in Roman times; a Synod of Carthage decreed, in 401, that the emperor should be requested to provide, in conjunction with the bishops, defensores for the churches. There is evidence, moreover, for such \"defensores ecclesiæ\" in Italy, at the close of the fifth century, but Pope Gregory I confined the office to members of the clergy. It was the duty of these defensores to protect the poor, and to defend the rights and possessions of the church.\n\nIn the Frankish Kingdom, under the Merovingians, these lay representatives of the churches appear as \"agentes\", \"defensores\" and \"advocati\".\n\nUnder the Carolingians, the duties of the church advocate were enlarged and defined according to the principles of government which prevailed in the reign of Charlemagne; henceforward we meet with the advocatus ecclesiæ in the medieval sense. A Capitulary of about 790 ordained that the higher clergy, \"for the sake of the churches honour, and the respect due to the priesthood\" (\"pro ecclesiastico honore, et pro sacerdotum reverentia\") should have advocates. Charlemagne, who obliged bishops, abbots and abbesses to maintain advocati, commanded to exercise great care in the choice of persons to fill the office; they must be judicious men, familiar with the law, and owning property in the -then still administrative- countship (\"Grafschaft\"). The churches, monasteries and canonries, as such, alike received advocates, who by degrees assumed the position above defined.\n\nUnder the Carolingians it was made obligatory on bishops, abbots and abbesses to appoint such officials in every county where they held property. The office was not hereditary, the advocatus being chosen, either by the abbot alone, or by the abbot and bishop concurrently with the count. The same causes that led to the development of the feudal system also affected the advocatus. In times of confusion churches and abbeys needed not so much a legal representative as an armed protector, while as feudal immunities were conceded to the ecclesiastical foundations, these required a representative to defend their rights and to fulfill their secular obligations to the state, such as leading the ecclesiastical levies to war. A new class of \"advocatus\" thus arose, whose office, commonly rewarded by a grant of land, crystallized into a fief, which, like other fiefs, had by the beginning of the 11th century become hereditary.\n\nIn the time of Charlemagne the king had the right to appoint the advocates, but many ecclesiastical institutions obtained the right of election. The office was not, at first, hereditary, nor even for life; in the post-Carolingian period, however, it developed into an hereditary one, and was held by powerful nobles, who constantly endeavoured to enlarge their rights in connection with the church or the monastery. Conciliar decrees were passed as early as the ninth century to protect ecclesiastical institutions against the excessive claims of their advocates, who indeed became in many ways a heavy burden to their ecclesiastical clients. They dealt with the possessions entrusted to them as with their own property, plundered the church estate, appropriated the tithes and other revenues, and oppressed in every possible way those whom they were appointed to protect.\n\nThe office, since it offered many advantages, was eagerly sought after. The excessive claims of the advocates gave rise to many disputes between them and the churches or monasteries. The bishops and abbots, who found their rights seriously curtailed, appealed to the Holy Roman Emperor and to the Pope for protection. In the twelfth century grave warnings issued from Rome, restraining the high-handed actions of the advocates under pain of severe ecclesiastical penalties, which still did not put an end to all the abuses that prevailed. On certain occasions, emperors and princes exercised the office of advocate, in which case they appointed deputy-advocates (\"subadvocati\") to represent them.\n\nIn France, the advocati, known as \"avoués\", were of two types. The first included the great barons, who held the advocateship (\"avouerie\") of an abbey or abbeys rather as an office than a fief, though they were indemnified for the protection they afforded by a domain and preach revenues granted by the abbey: thus the duke of Normandy was \"advocatus\" of nearly all the abbeys in the duchy. The second class included the petty lords who held their advocateships as hereditary fiefs and often as their sole means of subsistence. An abbey's \"avoué\", of this class, corresponded to a bishop's vidame. Their function was generally to represent the abbot in his capacity as feudal lord, act as his representative in the courts of his superior, exercise secular justice in the abbot's name in the abbatial court, and lead the retainers of the abbey to battle under the banner of the patron saint.\n\nThe \"advocatus ecclesiae\" was also known as a \"custos\" or \"adjutator\" in the 10th and 11th centuries. Initially, only counts and dukes were appointed \"advocati\", but by the end of the 11th century it was being bestowed on mere castellans. The monks usually consulted their advocate before electing a new abbot, giving the advocate influence over the selection. When a nobleman founded or reformed a monastery, he usually became its advocate. In the 12th century, the office of the advocate was on the decline, a result of the Gregorian reforms.\nThe Cistercian Order, for example, never allowed lay advocates.\n\nThe advocatus played a more important part in the feudal polity of the Empire and of the Low Countries than in France, where his functions, confined to the protection of the interests of religious houses, were superseded from the 13th century onwards by the growth of central power and the increasing efficiency of royal administration. They had, in effect, long ceased to be effective in their original purpose, and after the advowson became a fief, they took advantage of their position to pillage and suppress those they were supposed to defend. Medieval records are full of complaints from abbots about usurpations, exactions, and acts of violence committed by the advocati.\n\nIn the Netherlands (as well as in Germany) advocati were often appointed in the cities, by the overlord or by the emperor, to take the place of the bailiff (Dutch \"schout\", German \"Schultheiss\") or to stand alongside this official in matters of Law.\n\nIn England, the word \"advocatus\" was never used to denote a hereditary representative of an abbot; but in some of the larger abbeys there were hereditary stewards whose functions and privileges were not dissimilar to those of the continental \"advocati\". Instead, the word \"advocatus\", or more commonly avowee, was in constant use in England to denote the patron of an ecclesiastical benefice, whose sole right of any importance was a hereditary one of presenting a parson to the bishop for institution. In this way the hereditary right of presentation to a benefice came to be called in English an advowson (Lat. \"advocatio\").\n\nIn Germany, the title of \"Vogt\" (\"advocatus\" or \"advocate\") was given not only to the \"advocati\" of churches and abbeys but also, from early in the Middle Ages, to officials appointed by the Holy Roman Emperor to administer lands directly under his dominion, as opposed to the comital domains, owned by counts who had become hereditary princes of the Empire. The office or territory of a \"Vogt\" was a \"Vogtei\". Land administered by a \"Vogt\" could also be known as a \"Vogtland\" (\"terra advocatorum\"), a name still used to refer to a region, the Vogtland, that adjoins the principalities of Reuss and adjacent portions of Saxony, Prussia and Bavaria. An imperial advocateship tended to become hereditary. Sometimes the emperor himself assumed the title of \"Vogt\" in application to particular parts of his eminent domain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27745809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27745809", "title": "Amba language (Bantu)", "text": "Amba language (Bantu)\n\nAmba (also spelled Bulebule, Hamba, Humu, Kihumu, Ku-Amba, Kuamba, Lubulebule, Lwamba, Ruwenzori Kibira, and Rwamba) is a language spoken in parts of Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo by the Amba people. The Amba people call it Kwamba and it is known as Kihumu in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Amba has a 70% lexical similarity with Bera. Dialects include Kyanzi (Kihyanzi) and Suwa (Kusuwa).\n\nThere was once an Amba pidgin called \"Vamba\", now extinct.\n\n"}
{"id": "40771533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40771533", "title": "American Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC (1980)", "text": "American Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC (1980)\n\nAmerican Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC, 617 F.2d 875 (D.C. Cir. 1980) was a notable Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit case between plaintiff, the American Radio Relay League and the Federal Communications Commission regarding licensing rights and radiofrequency interference (RFI). The case was argued in the Court of Appeals on December 12, 1979 and decided on Feb. 22, 1980.\n\nIn an effort to combat Citizens band radio interference with television and radio signals, the FCC enacted regulations on the production and sale of linear amplifiers. The FCC justified these regulations in accordance with its mission to “prevent interference between stations”.\n\nThe number of CB operators had grown drastically since the 1970s. In 1977, when licenses were still required for CB radio, 14 million licensed operators and as many as 6 million illegal operators were using CB radio. CB-related interference to television viewers was on the rise.\n\nThe American Radio Relay League (ARRL), a non-profit organization dedicated to amateur (\"ham\") radio, was concerned with the effect of these rules on the amateur radio service. The ARRL did not protest regulation as a whole, but argued that the regulations had unintended consequences with regard to amateur radio.\n\nThe point in question for the court was whether or not the FCC had enacted its regulations with reasonable deliberation. The ARRL was not requesting a complete reversal of the regulation, but it was simply desiring that the FCC be required to renegotiate its regulations and exercise more diligence and deliberation at arriving at its required regulative stances.\n\nThe court sympathized with this point, believing that in all likelihood, that the FCC's decision was overly harsh on amateur radio operators. However the court believed it had insufficient reason to prove the FCC had unreasonably mandated its regulations for all radio operators.\n\nThe lower court decided that the FCC was responsible for properly handling and regulating all radio and frequency industries and operations. Therefore, its mission encompassed the larger breadth of all communications regulations. With this regard, the court believed it could not aptly define what a reasonable regulation of CB radios would be better than what the FCC, responsible for such regulations, enforced.\n\nThe lower court ruled in favor of the FCC. The Court of Appeals upheld the decision.\n"}
{"id": "26641659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641659", "title": "Aowin", "text": "Aowin\n\nThe Aowin, along with the Denkyira and Akwamu were among the three original great Akan Empires. Prior to the rise of the Denkyira state, the Aowin (Ebrosa) was the most powerful state in what is now Ghana's south-western region. Originally a gold producing state they dominated the trade between the Savannah regions of west Africa and the coastal regions later focusing their trade on the coast.\n\nLike many Akans the Aowin are believed to have originated further up north eventually settling in Bonoman and then migrating from there to their present location due to several existential forces: Namely, the Denkyira and Ashanti, who after decades of war gained control of the Aowin state during various periods of time\n. Even when under occupation the Aowin continued to wield significant power and remained relatively independent as a powerful gold producing Akan state with relative military superiority over neighbors.\n"}
{"id": "725145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725145", "title": "Awjila language", "text": "Awjila language\n\nAwjila (also \"Aujila\", \"Augila\", \"Aoudjila\", \"Awgila\", \"Awdjila\"; Local Berber name: Jlan n Awilen, neological Berber name: Tawilant or Tawjilit) is a severely endangered (considered \"moribund\" by \"Ethnologue\") Eastern Berber language spoken in Cyrenaica, Libya, in the Awjila oasis. Due to the political situation in Libya, immediate data on the language has been inaccessible. However, Facebook postings by speakers and younger semi-speakers have provided some recent supplementary data.\n\nAwjila is a member of the Berber branch of the Afroasiatic language family, of the Eastern Berber subgroup. It is closely related to Ghadames of Libya though considerably more endangered, with an estimated 2,000–3,000 native speakers remaining. UNESCO considers Awjila to be seriously endangered as the youngest speakers have reached or passed middle age.\n\nThe Berber languages of Libya faced severe oppression during the period of Muammar Gaddafi, which has likely been the cause of the demise of some varieties such as Sokna and the endangerment of others, including Awjila and Ghadames. The usage of Berber/Amazigh languages was effectively prohibited, and Gaddafi completely denied the existence of the Imazighen people, reportedly saying, \"call yourselves whatever you want inside your homes – Berbers, children of Satan, whatever – but you are only Libyans when you leave your homes\". He repeatedly targeted Amazigh rights activists (including linguists from abroad), to which can be attributed the lack of current and updated information on the Libyan Berber languages and the relatively limited content available, even in Arabic, on the Internet (as opposed to the more extensive resources found on Moroccan and Algerian Amazigh varieties). The language is, however, used on Facebook by some Awjili members.\n\nBecause of the political issues in Libya, field work on Awjila has been limited. The earliest studies of the language were carried out by Müller in 1827, however, his work is difficult to analyze because there were no standard conventions such as the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) for transcribing it at that time and because he failed to make distinctions for various sounds in Awjila (such the difference between as emphatic, pharyngeal consonants and their non-emphatic counterparts). Moritz von Beurmann also contributed a short word list but some forms contradict information found in later sources. The latest field work was done by Umberto Paradisi in 1960, whose data (in the form of texts) have become the basis for all future studies of the language, particularly that of contemporary scholar Marijn van Putten who has taken up the study of Awjila and other Eastern Berber varieties. Van Putten, who has published extensively on the language, relies heavily on the work of Paradisi and has used it to compile a dictionary and a grammar within his 2014 book \"A Grammar of Awjila Berber\".\n\nAlthough historically Libyco-Berber languages were written with the Tifinagh alphabet between second century BCE and third century CE, Aujila and other Amazigh languages have remained oral for most of their modern existence. In recent times most Amazigh languages are written in either Latin or Arabic script, although attempts to revive the Amazigh languages and cultures have led to the reintroduction of a \"neo-Tifinagh\" script in several domains. Nevertheless, Gaddafi had banned the script during the 42-years of his oppressive regime and therefore it is unlikely that the few Awjila speakers make any significant use of it.\n\nAwjila has several interesting phonological features that set it apart from most other varieties of Berber. A few notable distinctions are listed below: (Van Putten)\n1. Retention of Proto-Berber β as the v rather than being lost as in most other modern varieties. \n2. Loss of the pharyngealized voiced dental stop and entirely replaced it with the voiceless variant. Example: Awjila \"avəṭ\" vs. Tachelhit: \"iḍ\" meaning night. \n3. Retention of velar stop k where most Berber varieties have replaced it with palatal approximant j. Example: Awjila: \"təkəmmuʃt\" vs. Tachelhit: \"taymmust\" meaning bundle\n4. Palatalization of s and z to ʃ and ʒ \n5. Dominance of the i vowel and seeming shift from the a vowel of other varieties to i\n\nAwjila also has several distinguishing features in the domains of morphology and syntax:\n1. Lacks overt case-marking that has been retained in other Berber varieties.\n2. Lacks clitic-fronting\n3. Clitic –a is used with the present to express a resultative state, a feature shared only by the eastern-most Berber variety, Siwa\n\nDue to the already dwindled population of Awjila speakers and the continued political strife in post-Arab Spring Libya, the future of this language seems grim. Although researchers at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) and the president of the Congrès Mondial Amazigh have confirmed that speakers of the language still remain, all of the known speakers have been advanced in age, suggesting that younger generations are not learning Awjila.\n\n"}
{"id": "40312673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40312673", "title": "Azerbaijanis in Kyrgyzstan", "text": "Azerbaijanis in Kyrgyzstan\n\nAzerbaijanis in Kyrgyzstan () are part of the Azerbaijani diaspora. They are Kyrgyz citizens and permanent residents of ethnic Azerbaijani background. Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan used to be part of the Russian Empire and later the Soviet Union. Currently there are over 17,267 Azerbaijanis in Kyrgyzstan.\n\n"}
{"id": "47646113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47646113", "title": "BVRio Environmental Exchange", "text": "BVRio Environmental Exchange\n\nBolsa Verde do Rio de Janeiro (Rio de Janeiro’s Environmental Exchange) or BVRio is a not-for-profit association based in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, created with the objective to create and promote the use of market mechanisms to facilitate compliance with Brazilian environmental laws.\n\nBVRio was created in 2011 by social entrepreneurs Pedro Moura Costa and Mauricio Moura Costa in partnership with the Rio de Janeiro State Government and the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro. More recently, it has established collaboration agreements with the Brazilian Amazonian states of Pará, Amazonas, and Acre. Its board includes the participation of Funbio (), FBDS (Brazilian Foundation for Sustainable Development), CEBDS (the Brazilian chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development), and high visibility citizens, including environmental economist , as well as representatives from Rio de Janeiro’s State and Municipal governments.\n\nLaunched in December 2011, BVRio initially focused on establishing partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders from government, NGOs and industry and to identify and prioritise sectors in which to focus its efforts. After consultation with these stakeholders, it became clear that BVRio should aim at operating at both the rural and urban environments, as well as at the industrial sector:\n\nAt the end of its first year, BVRio launched a trading platform to support the market of Forest Reserve Credits for compliance with the Brazilian Forest Law. Today, the exchange has the participation of more than 3000 participants and over 3 million ha of rural properties offering credits throughout Brazil. With relation to the reverse logistics system, the FRC Market already counts with the participation of more than 7,000 waste collectors, represented through 150 cooperatives distributed throughout the country. The sale of Reverse Logistics credits greatly increased the income of these waste collectors (estimated at ca. 50%), generating positive social and environmental benefits.\n\nIn 2003 BVRio won the Katerva Award in the Economics category and in 2014 BVRio was nominated a \"Climate Action Leader\" by the R20 Regions of Climate Action as an acknowledgment for BVRio's work on the Green Finance Mechanism. Additionally, it received the Madeira Awards in 2014, and was shortlisted for awards from Yale University and UNDP in 2013/2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "34416580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34416580", "title": "Backchannel (linguistics)", "text": "Backchannel (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, backchannels are listener responses at a point in time of a conversation where another person is the primary speaker. Backchannels can be both verbal and non-verbal in nature, and are frequently phatic expressions, primarily serving a social or meta-conversational purpose, rather than involving substantial two-way communication.\n\nThe term was coined by Victor Yngve in 1970, in the following passage: \"In fact, both the person who has the turn and his partner are simultaneously engaged in both speaking and listening. This is because of the existence of what I call the back channel, over which the person who has the turn receives short messages such as 'yes' and 'uh-huh' without relinquishing the turn.\"\n\nThe term \"backchannel\" was designed to imply that there are two channels of communication operating simultaneously during a conversation. The predominant channel is that of the speaker who directs primary speech flow. The secondary channel of communication (or backchannel) is that of the listener which functions to provide \"continuers\" or \"assessments\", defining a listener's comprehension and/or interest. Recent research, which can be seen below, has also suggested new terms for these two functions. They have proposed the term \"generic\" in place of \"continuers\" and \"specific\" in place of \"assessments\".\n\nBackchannel communication is present in all cultures and languages, though frequency and use may vary. Confusion or distraction can occur during an intercultural encounter if participants from both parties are not accustomed to the same backchannel norms.\n\nDue to research development in recent years, backchannel responses have been expanded to include sentence completions, requests for clarification, brief statements, and non-verbal responses and now fall into three categories: non-lexical, phrasal, and substantive. \n\nA non-lexical backchannel is a vocalized sound that has little or no referential meaning but still verbalizes the listener's attention, and that frequently co-occurs with gestures. In English, sounds like \"uh-huh\" and \"hmm\" serve this role. Non-lexical backchannels generally come from a limited set of sounds not otherwise widely used in contentful conversational speech; as a result, they can be used to express support, surprise, or a need for clarification at the same time as someone else's conversational turn without causing confusion or interference.\n\nEnglish allows for the reduplication, or repetition, of syllables within a non-lexical backchannel, such as in responses like \"uh-huh\", \"mm-hm\", or \"um-hm\", as well as for single-syllable backchanneling. In a study examining the use of two-syllable backchannels that focused on \"mm\" and \"mm-hm\", Gardner found that the two tokens are generally not identical in function, with \"mm\" being used more productively as a continuer, a weak acknowledgment token, and a weak assessment marker. In contrast, \"mm-hm\" is generally used as a backchannel to signal that the speaker is yielding their conversational turn and allowing the other speaker to maintain control of the conversational floor.\n\nPhrasal backchannels most commonly assess or acknowledge a speaker's communication with simple words or phrases (for example, \"Really?\" or \"Wow!\" in English). Substantive backchannels consist of more substantial turn-taking by the listener and usually manifest as asking for clarification or repetitions.\n\nOne of the conversational functions of phrasal backchannels is to assess or appraise a previous utterance. Goodwin argues that this is the case for the phrasal backchannel \"oh wow\", where use of the backchannel requires a specific conversational context where something unexpected or surprising was said. Similarly, more substantive backchannels such as \"oh come on, are you serious?\" require a context where the speaker is responding to something exasperating or frustrating. In both of these cases, Goodwin argues that the backchannels focus only on addressing some aspect of the immediately proceeding utterance rather than the larger conversation itself. As a result, they have a broad conversational distribution, appearing both in the middle of extended talk as well as at the end of longer conversational turns.\n\nMore recent research has pushed back on the notion of backchannels, in which the listener's role is merely to receive information provided by the speaker. Bavelas, Coates, and Johnson put forth evidence that listeners' responses help shape the content of the speaker. They grouped acknowledgment tokens into two categories: generic and specific. Generic responses could be considered back channels and would include \"mm hm\" and \"yeah\", while specific responses would involve a reaction to the given context. Examples might include \"Oh!\" or a facial display of concern.\n\nThey transcribed students telling a fellow participant about a close call experience that they had had. With one group of participants, they had the listener perform another task to distract them from the story being told. The researchers asked independent reviewers to code the verbal and visual responses of the narration events as generic or specific. They also asked other independent reviewers to gauge the quality of the narration in each case.\n\nThey concluded that the responses from the distracted listeners included significantly fewer specific responses than from the undistracted listeners. In addition, they found that the quality of the narration was dramatically lower when the listener was distracted. Their basic contention was that listeners are co-narrators and help the storyteller in his or her narration. In other words, a storyteller tells a better story with an audience that is engaged than one that is not.\n\nTolins and Foxtree have also published research demonstrating how backchannel communication influences speakers. Their research was specifically looking at how speakers respond to generic responses compared to specific responses.\n"}
{"id": "26413104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26413104", "title": "Bosniaks (Croats in Hungary)", "text": "Bosniaks (Croats in Hungary)\n\nBosniaks (, singular \"Bošnjak\"; , in Hungarian literature also \"Baranyai bosnyákok\") are a Croat population, living in various settlements in the historic region Baranja, in its Hungarian part. Bosniaks Croats should not be confused with Bosnian Muslims that mostly live in Bosnia and Herzegovina also called Bosniaks.\n\nThey live in Baranya, in the city of Pécs, also in the villages Kökény, Szemely, Udvar, Szalánta (they came there in the 18th century; today they make 32% of the village population), Pécsudvard, Németi, Pogány., et cetera. Until recently, Bosniak Catholics were the significant community in Áta, Szőke and Szőkéd, but those Croats have significantly magyarized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6059245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6059245", "title": "Canadian identity", "text": "Canadian identity\n\nCanadian identity refers to the unique culture, characteristics and condition of being Canadian, as well as the many symbols and expressions that set Canada and Canadians apart from other peoples and cultures of the world.\n\nPrimary influences on the Canadian identity trace back to the arrival, beginning in the early seventeenth century, of French settlers in Acadia and the St. Lawrence River Valley and English, Scottish and other settlers in Newfoundland, the British conquest of New France in 1759, and the ensuing dominance of French and British culture in the gradual development of both an imperial and a national identity.\n\nThroughout the 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, First Nations played a critical part in the development of European colonies in Canada, from their role in assisting exploration of the continent, the fur trade and inter-European power struggles to the creation of the Métis people. Carrying through the 20th century and to the present day, Canadian aboriginal art and culture continues to exert a marked influence on Canadian identity.\n\nThe question of Canadian identity was traditionally dominated by two fundamental themes: first, the often conflicted relations between English Canadians and French Canadians stemming from the French Canadian imperative for cultural and linguistic survival; secondly, the generally close ties between English Canadians and the British Empire, resulting in a gradual political process towards complete independence from the imperial power. With the gradual loosening of political and cultural ties to Britain in the twentieth century, immigrants from Europe, Asia, Africa and the Caribbean have reshaped the Canadian identity, a process that continues today with the continuing arrival of large numbers of immigrants from non British or French backgrounds, adding the theme of multiculturalism to the debate. Today, Canada has a diverse makeup of nationalities and cultures (see Canadian culture) and constitutional protection for policies that promote multiculturalism rather than a single national myth. \n\nIn defining a Canadian identity, some distinctive characteristics that have been emphasized are:\n\n\nCanada's large geographic size, the presence and survival of a significant number of indigenous peoples, the conquest of one European linguistic population by another and relatively open immigration policy have led to an extremely diverse society.\n\nThe indigenous peoples of Canada are divided among a large number of different ethnolinguistic groups, including the Inuit in the northern territory of Nunavut, the Algonquian language groups in eastern Canada (Mi'kmaq in the Maritime Provinces, Abenaki of Quebec and Ojibway of the central region), the Iroquois of central Canada, the Cree of northern Ontario, Quebec and the Great Plains, peoples speaking the Athabaskan languages of Canada's northwest, the Salishan language groups of British Columbia and other peoples of the Pacific coast such as the Tsimshian, Haida, Kwakwaka'wakw and Nuu-chah-nulth. Each of the indigenous peoples developed vibrant societies with complex economies, political structures and cultural traditions that were subsequently affected profoundly by interaction with the European populations. The Metis are an indigenous people whose culture and identity was produced by a fusion of First Nations with the French, Irish and Scottish fur trade society of the north and west.\n\nFrom the founding by Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons of Port Royal in 1605, (the beginnings of French settlement of Acadia) and the founding of Quebec City in 1608 by Samuel de Champlain, Canada was ruled from and settled almost exclusively by French colonists. John Ralston Saul, among others, has noted that the east-west shape of modern Canada had its origins in decisions regarding alliances with the indigenous peoples made by early French colonizers or explorers such as Champlain or De La Vérendrye. By allying with the Algonquins, for example, Champlain gained an alliance with the Wyandot or Huron of today's Ontario, and the enmity of the Iroquois of what is now northern New York State.\n\nAlthough English settlement began in Newfoundland in 1610, and the Hudson's Bay Company was chartered in 1670, it was only with the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 that France ceded to Great Britain its claims to mainland Nova Scotia and significant British colonization of what would become mainland Canada would begin. Even then, prior to the American Revolution, Nova Scotia was settled largely by planters from New England who took up lands following the deportation of the French-speaking Acadian population, in 1755 in an event known in French to Acadians as \"Le Grand Dérangement\", one of the critical events in the formation of the Canadian identity. During the period of French hegemony over New France the term \"Canadien\" referred to the French-speaking inhabitants of Canada.\n\nThe Seven Years' War between Great Britain and France resulted in the conquest of New France by the British in 1759 at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, an event that reverberates profoundly even today in the national consciousness of Quebecers. Although there were deliberate attempts made by the British to assimilate the French speaking population to English language and culture, most notably the 1840 Act of Union that followed the seminal report of Lord Durham, British colonial policy for Canada on the whole was one which acknowledged and permitted the continued existence of French language and culture. Nevertheless, the efforts at assimilation of French Canadians, the fate of the French-speaking Acadians and the revolt of the \"patriotes\" in 1837 would not be forgotten by their Québécois descendants. \"Je me souviens\", (English: \"I remember\"), the motto of Quebec, became the watchword of the Québécois. Determined to maintain their cultural and linguistic distinctiveness in the face of British colonial domination and massive immigration of English speaking people to the pre-Confederation Province of Canada, this survivalist determination is a cornerstone of current Québécois identity and much of the political discourse in Quebec. The English Canadian writer and philosopher John Ralston Saul also considers the Ultramontane movement of Catholicism as playing a pivotal and highly negative role in the development of certain aspects of Québécois identity.\n\nFor its part, the identity of English speaking Canada was profoundly influenced by another pivotal historic event, the American Revolution. Americans who remained loyal to the Crown and who actively supported the British during the Revolution saw their lands and goods confiscated by the new republic at the end of the war. Some 60,000 persons, known in Canada as United Empire Loyalists fled the United States or were evacuated after the war, coming to Nova Scotia and Quebec where they received land and some assistance from the British government in compensation and recognition for having taken up arms in defence of King George III and British interests. This population formed the nucleus for two modern Canadian provinces—Ontario and New Brunswick—and had a profound demographic, political and economic influence on Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Quebec. Conservative in politics, distrustful or even hostile towards Americans, republicanism, and especially American republicanism, this group of people marked the British of British North America as a distinctly identifiable cultural entity for many generations, and Canadian commentators continue to assert that the legacy of the Loyalists still plays a vital role in English Canadian identity. According to the author and political commentator Richard Gwyn while \"[t]he British connection has long vanished...it takes only a short dig down to the sedimentary layer once occupied by the Loyalists to locate the sources of a great many contemporary Canadian convictions and conventions.\"\n\nCanada was twice invaded by armed forces from the United States during the American Revolution and the War of 1812. The first invasion occurred in 1775, and succeeded in capturing Montreal and other towns in Quebec before being repelled at Quebec City by a combination of British troops and local militia. During this invasion, the French-speaking \"Canadiens\" assisted both the invaders from the United Colonies and the defending British. The War of 1812 also saw the invasion of American forces into what was then Upper and Lower Canada, and important British victories at Queenston Heights, Lundy's Lane and Crysler's Farm. The British were assisted again by local militia, this time not only the \"Canadiens\", but also the descendants of the Loyalists who had arrived barely a generation earlier. The Americans however captured control of Lake Erie, cutting off what is today western Ontario; they killed Tecumseh and dealt the Indian allies a decisive defeat from which they never recovered. The War of 1812 has been called \"in many respects a war of independence for Canada\".\n\nThe years following the War of 1812 were marked by heavy immigration from Great Britain to the Canadas and, to a lesser degree, the Maritime Provinces, adding new British elements (English, Scottish and Protestant Irish) to the pre-existing English-speaking populations. During the same period immigration of Catholic Irish brought large numbers of settlers who had no attachment, and often a great hostility, toward the imperial power. The hostility of other groups to the autocratic colonial administrations that were not based on democratic principles of responsible government, principally the French-speaking population of Lower Canada and newly arrived American settlers with no particular ties to Great Britain, were to manifest themselves in the short-lived but symbolically powerful Rebellions of 1837. The term \"Canadian\", once describing a francophone population, was adopted by English-speaking residents of the Canadas as well, marking the process of converting 'British' immigrants into 'Canadians.'\n\nThe merger of the two Canadas in 1840, with political power divided evenly between the former Lower and Upper Canadas, created a political structure that eventually exacerbated tensions between the French and English-speaking populations and which would prove an enduring feature of Canadian identity. As the population of English-speaking and largely Protestant Canada West grew to surpass that of majority French-speaking Catholic Canada East, the population of Canada West began to feel that its interests were becoming subservient to the francophone population of Canada East. George Brown, founder of \"The Globe\" newspaper (forerunner of today's \"The Globe and Mail\") and a Father of Confederation wrote that the position of Canada West had become \"a base vassalage to French-Canadian Priestcraft.\" For its part, the French Canadians distrusted the growing anti-Catholic 'British' population of Canada West and sought a structure that could provide at least some control over its own affairs through a Provincial legislature founded on principles of responsible government.\n\nThe union of the Provinces of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick into a federation in 1867 drew on all of the primary aspects of the Canadian identity: loyalty to Britain (there would be self-governance under a federal parliament, but no rupture from British institutions), limited but significant home rule for a French-speaking majority in the new Province of Quebec (and a longed for solution to English-French tensions), and a collaboration of British North Americans in order to resist the pull and the possible military threat from the United States. The republic to the south had just finished its Civil War as a powerful and united nation with little affection for Britain or its colonial baggage strung along its northern border. So great was the perceived threat that even Queen Victoria thought, prior to Confederation, that it would be \"impossible\" for Britain to retain Canada.\n\nIn their search for an early identity, English Canadians relied heavily on loyalty and attachment to the British Empire, a triumphalist attitude towards British role in the building of Canada, as evidenced in the lyrics of the informal anthem The Maple Leaf Forever and distrust or dislike of those who were not British or Protestant. John Ralston Saul sees in the influence of the Orange Order the counterpart of the Ultramontane movement among French Canadians, leading certain groups of English Canadian Protestants to provoke persecution of the Métis and suppress or resist francophone rights.\n\nAfter Confederation Canada became caught up in settlement of the west and extending the dominion to the Pacific Ocean. British Columbia joined Confederation in 1871. Residents of a British colony specifically established to forestall American territorial aspirations in the Fraser Valley, British Columbians were no strangers to the implications of the American doctrine of Manifest Destiny nor the economic attractions of the United States. The construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, promised to British Columbia as an inducement to join the new dominion, became a powerful and tangible symbol of the nation's identity, linking the provinces and territories together from east to west in order to counteract the inevitable economic and cultural pull from the south.\n\nThe settlement of the west also brought to the fore the tensions between the English and French-speaking populations of Canada. The Red River Rebellion, led by Louis Riel, sought to defend the interests of French-speaking Métis against English-speaking Protestant settlers from Ontario. The controversial execution of Thomas Scott, a Protestant from Ontario, on Riel's orders and the furor that followed divided the new dominion along linguistic and religious lines. While Manitoba was created as a bilingual province in 1870 as a solution to the issue, the tensions remained, and would surface again in the Northwest Rebellion in the 1880s, when Riel led another rebellion against Ottawa.\n\nFrom the mid to late 19th century Canada had a policy of assisting immigrants from Europe, including city people and an estimated 100,000 unwanted \"Home Children\" from Britain. The modern descendants of these children have been estimated at five \"million\", contributing to Canada's identity as the \"country of the abandoned\". Offers of free land attracted farmers from Central and Eastern Europe to the prairies, as well as large numbers of Americans who settled to a great extent in Alberta. Several immigrant groups settled in sufficient densities to create communities of a sufficient size to exert an influence on Canadian identity, such as Ukrainian Canadians. Canada began to see itself as a country that needed and welcomed people from countries besides its traditional sources of immigrants, accepting Germans, Poles, Dutch and Scandinavians in large numbers before the First World War.\n\nAt the same time, however, concerns regarding immigration from Asian sources revealed overtly xenophobic and racist attitudes among Canadians, particularly English Canadians on the Pacific coast. At the time for many Canadian identity, whatever it was to be, did not include non-Europeans. While inexpensive Chinese labour had been needed to complete the transcontinental railway, the completion of the railway led to questions of what to do with the workers who were now no longer needed. Further Chinese immigration was limited and then banned by a series of restrictive and racially motivated dominion statutes. The Komagata Maru incident in 1914 revealed overt hostility towards would-be immigrants, mainly Sikhs from India, who attempted to land in Vancouver.\n\nThe main crisis regarding Canadian identity came in World War I. Canadians of British heritage were strongly in favor of the war effort, while those of French heritage, especially in Quebec, showed far less interest. A series of political upheavals ensued, especially the Conscription Crisis of 1917. Simultaneously, the role of immigrants as loyal Canadians was contested, with large numbers of men of German or Ukrainian heritage temporarily stripped of voting rights or incarcerated in camps. The war helped define separate political identities for the two groups, and permanently alienated Quebec and the Conservative Party.\n\nDuring this period, World War I helped to establish a separate Canadian identity among Anglophoners, especially through the military experiences of the Battle of Vimy Ridge and the Battle of Passchendaele and the intense homefront debates on patriotism. (A similar crisis, though much less intense, erupted in World War II.)\n\nIn the 1920s, the Dominion of Canada achieved greater independence from Britain, notably in the Statute of Westminster in 1931. It remained part of the larger Commonwealth but played an independent role in the League of Nations. As Canada became increasingly independent and sovereign, its primary foreign relationship and point of reference gradually moved to the United States, the superpower with whom it shared a long border and major economic, social and cultural relationships.\nThe Statute of Westminster also gave Canada its own monarchy, which remains in personal union with 15 other countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. However, overt associations with British nationalism wound down after the end of the Second World War, when Canada established its own citizenship laws in 1947. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, a number of symbols of the Crown were either removed completely (such as the Royal Mail) or changed (such as the Royal Arms of Canada).\n\nIn the 1960s, Quebec experienced the Quiet Revolution to modernize society from traditional Christian teachings. Québécois nationalists demanded independence, and tensions rose until violence erupted during the 1970 October Crisis. In 1976 the Parti Québécois was elected to power in Quebec, with a nationalist vision that included securing French linguistic rights in the province and the pursuit of some form of sovereignty for Quebec, leading to a referendum in 1980 in Quebec on the question of sovereignty-association, which was turned down by 59% of the voters. At the patriation of the Canadian Constitution in 1982, the Quebec premier did not sign it; this led to two unsuccessful attempts to modify the constitution so it would be signed, and another referendum on Quebec independence in 1995 which was turned down by a small majority of 50.6%.\n\nIn 1965 Canada adopted the maple leaf flag, after considerable debate and misgivings on the part of a large number of English Canadians. Two years later the country celebrated the centennial of Confederation, with an international exposition in Montreal.\n\nLegislative restrictions on immigration that had favoured British and other European immigrants were removed in the 1960s. By the 1970s immigrants increasingly came from India, Hong Kong, the Caribbean and Vietnam. Post-war immigrants of all backgrounds tended to settle in the major urban centres, particularly Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver.\n\nDuring his long tenure in the office (1968–79, 1980–84), Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau made social and cultural change his political goal for Canada, including the pursuit of an official policy on bilingualism and plans for significant constitutional change. The west, particularly the oil and gas-producing province of Alberta, opposed many of the policies emanating from central Canada, with the National Energy Program creating considerable antagonism and growing western alienation.\n\nAs for the role of history in national identity, the books of Pierre Berton and television series like \"\" have done much to spark the popular interest of Canadians in their history. Some commentators, such as Cohen, criticize the overall lack of attention paid by Canadians to their own history, noting a disturbing trend to ignore the broad history in favour of narrow focus on specific regions or groups.\nMuch of the debate over contemporary Canadian identity is argued in political terms, and defines Canada as a country defined by its government policies, which are thought to reflect deeper cultural values. To the political philosopher Charles Blattberg, Canada should be conceived as a civic or political community, a community of citizens, one that contains many other kinds of communities within it. These include not only communities of ethnic, regional, religious, civic (the provincial and municipal governments) and civil associational sorts, but also national communities. Blattberg thus sees Canada as a multinational country and so asserts that it contains a number of nations within it. Aside from the various aboriginal First Nations, there is also the nation of francophone Quebecers, that of the anglophones who identify with English Canadian culture, and perhaps that of the Acadians.\n\nIn keeping with this, it is often asserted that Canadian government policies such as publicly funded health care, higher taxation to distribute wealth, outlawing capital punishment, strong efforts to eliminate poverty in Canada, an emphasis on multiculturalism, imposing strict gun control, leniency in regard to drug use and most recently legalizing same-sex marriage make their country politically and culturally different from the United States.\n\nIn a poll that asked what institutions made Canada feel most proud about their country, number one was health care, number two was the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and number three was peacekeeping. In a CBC contest to name \"The Greatest Canadian\", the three highest ranking in descending order were the social democratic politician and father of medicare Tommy Douglas, the legendary cancer activist Terry Fox, and the Liberal prime minister Pierre Trudeau, responsible for instituting Canada's official policies of bilingualism and multiculturalism, which suggested that their voters valued left-of-centre political leanings and community involvement.\n\nMost of Canada's recent prime ministers have been from Quebec, and thus have tried to improve relations with the province with a number of tactics, notably official bilingualism which required the provision of a number of services in both official languages and, among other things, required that all commercial packaging in Canada be printed in French and English. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's first legislative push was to implement the Royal Commission on Bilingualism within the Official languages Act in 1969. Again, while this bilingualism is a notable feature to outsiders, the plan has been less than warmly embraced by many English Canadians some of whom resent the extra administrative costs and the requirement of many key federal public servants to be fluently bilingual. Despite the widespread introduction of French-language classes throughout Canada, very few anglophones are truly bilingual outside of Quebec. Pierre Trudeau in regards to uniformity stated:\n\nIn 2013, more than 90% of Canadians believed that the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" and the national flag were the top symbols of Canadian identity.\n\nCanada was the home for 'American' British Loyalists during and following the American Revolution, making much of Canada distinct in its unwillingness to embrace republicanism and populist democracy during the nineteenth century. Canada was also the destination for slaves from America via the Underground Railroad (The 'North Star' as heralded by Martin Luther King Jr.); Canada was the refuge for American Vietnam draft-dodgers during the turbulent 1960s.\n\nIn response to a declining birth rate, Canada has increased the per capita immigration rate to one of the highest in the world. The economic impact of immigration to Canada is discussed as being positive by most of the Canadian media and almost all Canadian politicians.\n\nA very common expression of Canadian identity is to ridicule American ignorance of things Canadian.\n\nDuring his years with \"This Hour Has 22 Minutes\", comic Rick Mercer produced a recurring segment, \"Talking to Americans.\" Petty says, the segment \"was extraordinarily popular and was initiated by viewer demand.\" Mercer would pose as a journalist in an American city and ask passers-by for their opinions on a fabricated Canadian news story. Some of the \"stories\" for which he solicited comment included the legalization of staplers, the coronation of King Svend, the border dispute between Quebec and Chechnya, the campaign against the Toronto Polar Bear Hunt, and the reconstruction of the historic \"Peter Mann's Bridge\". During the 2000 election in the United States, Mercer successfully staged a \"Talking to Americans\" segment in which presidential candidate George W. Bush gratefully accepted news of his endorsement by Canadian Prime Minister \"Jean Poutine\".\n\nWhile Canadians may dismiss comments that they do not find appealing or stereotypes that are patently ridiculous, Andrew Cohen believes that there is a value to considering what foreigners have to say: \"Looking at Canadians through the eyes of foreigners, we get a sense of how they see us. They say so much about us: that we are nice, hospitable, modest, blind to our achievements. That we are obedient, conservative, deferential, colonial and complex, particularly so. That we are fractious, envious, geographically impossible and politically improbable.\" Cohen refers in particular to the analyses of the French historian André Siegfried, the Irish born journalist and novelist Brian Moore or the Canadian-born American journalist Andrew H. Malcolm.\n\nThe Canadian philosopher and writer John Ralston Saul has expressed the view that the French fact in Canada is central to Canadian, and particularly to English Canadian identity:\nIt cannot be repeated enough that Quebec and, more precisely, francophone Canada is at the very heart of the Canadian mythology. I don't mean that it alone constitutes the heart, which is after all a complex place. But it is at the heart and no multiple set of bypass operations could rescue that mythology if Quebec were to leave. Separation is therefore a threat of death to anglophone Canada's whole sense of itself, of its self-respect, of its role as a constituent part of a nation, of the nature of the relationship between citizens.\"\nMany Canadians believe that the relationship between the English and French languages is the central or defining aspect of the Canadian experience. Canada's Official Languages Commissioner (the federal government official charged with monitoring the two languages) has stated, \"[I]n the same way that race is at the core of what it means to be American and at the core of an American experience and class is at the core of British experience, I think that language is at the core of Canadian experience.\"\n\nSaul argues that Canadian identity is founded not merely on the relationship built of French/English pragmatic compromises and cooperation but rests in fact on a triangular foundation which includes, significantly, Canada's aboriginal peoples. From the reliance of French and later English explorers on Native knowledge of the country, to the development of the indigenous Métis society on the Prairies which shaped what would become Canada, and the military response to their resistance to annexation by Canada, indigenous peoples were originally partners and players in laying the foundations of Canada. Individual aboriginal leaders, such as Joseph Brant or Tecumseh have long been viewed as heroes in Canada's early battles with the United States and Saul identifies Gabriel Dumont as the real leader of the Northwest Rebellion, although overshadowed by the better-known Louis Riel. While the dominant culture tended to dismiss or marginalize First Nations to a large degree, individual artists such as the British Columbia painter Emily Carr, who depicted the totem poles and other carvings of the Northwest Coast peoples, helped turn the then largely ignored and undervalued culture of the first peoples into iconic images \"central to the way Canadians see themselves\". First Nations art and iconography are now routinely integrated into public space intended to represent Canada, such as \"The Great Canoe\"\", a sculpture by Haida artist Bill Reid in the courtyard of the Canadian embassy in Washington D.C. and its copy, \"The Spirit of Haida Gwaii\", at the apex of the main hall in the Vancouver Airport.\n\nThe War of 1812 is often celebrated in Ontario as a British victory for what would become Canada in 1867. The Canadian government spent $28 million on three years of bicentennial events, exhibits, historic sites, re-enactments, and a new national monument. The official goal was to make Canadians aware that:\n\nIn a 2012 poll, 25% of all Canadians ranked their victory in the War of 1812 as the second most important part of their identity after free health care (53%).\n\nCanadian historians in recent decades look at the war as a defeat for the First Nations of Canada, and also for the merchants of Montreal (who lost the fur trade of the Michigan-Minnesota area). The British had a long-standing goal of building a \"neutral\" but pro-British Indian buffer state in the American Midwest. They demanded a neutral Indian state at the peace conference in 1814 but failed to gain any of it because they had lost control of the region in the Battle of Lake Erie and the Battle of the Thames in 1813, where Tecumseh was killed. The British then abandoned the Indians south of the lakes. The royal elite of (what is now) Ontario gained much more power in the aftermath and used that power to repel American ideas such as democracy and republicanism, especially in those areas of Ontario settled primarily by Americans. Many of those settlers returned to the states and were replaced by immigrants from Britain who were imperial-minded. W. L. Morton says the war was a \"stalemate\" but the Americans \"did win the peace negotiations.\" Arthur Ray says the war made \"matters worse for the native people\" as they lost military and political power. Bumsted says the war was a stalemate but regarding the Indians \"was a victory for the American expansionists.\" Thompson and Randall say \"the War of 1812's real losers were the Native peoples who had fought as Britain's ally.\" On the other hand, the \"1812 Great Canadian Victory Party will bring the War of 1812...to life,\" promised the sponsors of a festival in Toronto in November 2009.\n\nMulticulturalism and the state of inter-ethnic relations in Canada is relaxed and tolerant, allowing ethnic or linguistic particularism to exist unquestioned. In metropolitan areas such as Toronto and Vancouver, there is often a strong sense that multiculturalism is a normal and respectable expression of being Canadian. Canada is also considered a mosaic because of the multi-culturalism.\n\nSupporters of Canadian multiculturalism will also argue that cultural appreciation of ethnic and religious diversity promotes a greater willingness to tolerate political differences, and multiculturalism is often cited as one of Canada's significant accomplishments and a key distinguishing element of Canadian identity. Richard Gwyn has suggested that \"tolerance\" has replaced \"loyalty\" as the touchstone of Canadian identity.\n\nOn the other hand, critics of Canada's multiculturalism argue that the country's \"timid\" attitude towards the assimilation of immigrants has actually weakened, not strengthened Canada's national identity through factionalism. Columnist and author Richard Gwyn expresses concern that Canada's sense of self may become so weak that it might vanish altogether. The indulgent attitude taken towards cultural differences is perhaps a side effect of the vexed histories of French-English and Aboriginal-settler relations, which have created a need for a civic national identity, as opposed to one based on some homogenous cultural ideal. On the other hand, concerns have been raised of the danger that \"ethnic nationalism will trump civic nationalism\" and that Canada will leap \"from colony to post-national cosmopolitan\" without giving Canadians a fair chance of ever finding a centre of gravity or certain sense of Canadian identity.\n\nFor John Ralston Saul, Canada's approach of not insisting on a single national mythology or identity is not necessarily a sign of the country's weakness, but rather its greatest success, signalling a rejection of or evolution from the European mono-cultural concept of a national identity to something far more \"soft\" and less complex: The essential characteristic of the Canadian public mythology is its complexity. To the extent that it denies the illusion of simplicity, it is a reasonable facsimile of reality. That makes it a revolutionary reversal of the standard nation-state myth. To accept our reality—the myth of complexity—is to live out of sync with élites in other countries, particularly those in the business and academic communities.\n\nIn January 2007, Prime Minister Stephen Harper advised the creation of a new sub-ministerial cabinet portfolio with the title \"Canadian Identity\" for the first time in Canadian history, naming Jason Kenney to the position of Secretary of State for Multiculturalism and Canadian Identity.\n\nIn \"Fire and Ice: The United States, Canada and the Myth of Converging Values\", the author, Michael Adams, head of the Environics polling company seeks distinctions between Canadians and Americans using polling research performed by his company as evidence. Critics of the idea of a fundamentally \"liberal Canada\" such as David Frum argue that the Canadian drive towards a more noticeably leftist political stance is largely due to the increasing role that Quebec plays in the Canadian government (three of the last five elected Prime Ministers have been Quebecers, four if one includes Ontarian born Paul Martin). Quebec historically was the most conservative, religious and traditional part of Canada. Since the Quiet Revolution of the 1960s, however, it has become the most secular and social democratic region of Canada. However, it is noteworthy that many Western provinces (particularly Saskatchewan and British Columbia) also have reputations as supporting leftist and social democratic policies. For example, Saskatchewan is one of the few provinces (all in the West) to reelect social democratic governments and is the cradle of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation and its successor the New Democratic Party. Much of the energy of the early Canadian feminist movement occurred in Manitoba.\n\nBy contrast, the Conservative provincial government of Alberta has frequently quarrelled with federal administrations perceived to be dominated by \"eastern liberal elites.\" Part of this is due to what Albertans feel were federal intrusions on provincial jurisdictions such as the National Energy Program and other attempts to 'interfere' with Albertan oil resources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38293460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38293460", "title": "Charlie Brotman", "text": "Charlie Brotman\n\nCharles J. \"Charlie\" Brotman (born December 30, 1927) is an American public relations specialist and public address announcer, known for his presentation of U.S. presidential inaugural parades of 11 presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Barack Obama.\n\nBrotman, the son of Russian-Jewish immigrants, grew up in Northeast Washington, DC, graduated from McKinley Technology High School and studied at the University of Maryland. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1946 to 1948, then attended the National Academy of Broadcasting. Brotman was one of the academy's students selected by the organizers of Harry S. Truman's inauguration in 1949 to broadcast the first-ever televised inaugural ceremony.\n\nFollowing his graduation from the academy, Brotman worked as a disc jockey and sports announcer in Orlando, Florida. A 1956 meeting with Senators' owner Calvin Griffith led to him returning to his hometown of Washington to take the Senators announcing assignment. He later became the team's promotions director as well.\n\nIn the 1960s, Brotman started his own public relations firm, Brotman|Winter|Fried, specializing in sports promotions. (His firm was acquired by Sage Communications in 2011.) He continued to announce on Opening Day for the Senators each year until the team moved to Texas following the 1971 season. When the Washington Nationals relocated to the city in 2005, Brotman returned to his Opening Day duties.\n\nBrotman joined LINK Strategic Partners, a strategic communications and stakeholder engagement firm based in Washington, DC, as a senior advisor in 2015. He advises the firm on its hyperlocal engagement work in DC and around the country.\n\nBrotman has been inducted into 11 different Halls of Fame during his more than 50 years in public relations and announcing, including the Washington Hall of Fame, the Jewish Sports Hall of Fame, Jock’s Hall of Fame, the Public Relations Society of America Hall of Fame, the Advertising Club of Washington Hall of Fame, the Greater Washington Fastpitch Softball Hall of Fame. His most recent induction took place in 2014 at the John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts for the Washington Tennis and Education Foundation Hall of Fame.\n\nPrior to taking on his inaugural duties, Brotman had been the stadium announcer at Griffith Stadium, home of the Washington Senators baseball team. Brotman noted that on Opening Day 1956, Eisenhower was at the ballpark to throw out the ceremonial first pitch. Later that year, a White House staffer called Brotman and said Eisenhower was impressed with his work, and he wanted Brotman for the inauguration.\n\nThe staffer asked Brotman, \"Will you charge a fee? Because our parade budget is very minimal.\" Brotman responded, \"No, as a matter of fact, to be honest, I'd pay you for the honor.\"\n\nBrotman was behind the microphone for every inaugural parade in Washington, DC, since 1957, when Dwight D. Eisenhower was sworn in for his second term. Barack Obama's second inauguration in 2013 was the 15th consecutive ceremony that Brotman has announced, and his 16th overall.\n\nDuring the presidency of George W. Bush, Brotman also served as the announcer at tee ball games on the South Lawn of the White House.\n\nPresident Donald Trump's Presidential Inauguration Committee ended Brotman's reign as announcer, instead picking Steve Ray, a Trump supporter, for the 58th Presidential Inauguration. Brotman was, however, selected to welcome the National Organizers for the Women's March on Washington on January 21, 2017 - the day following the Inauguration.\n"}
{"id": "30827262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30827262", "title": "Chilean Swedes", "text": "Chilean Swedes\n\nChilean Swedes are Chilean immigrants in Sweden and citizens of Sweden who are of Chilean ancestry.\n\nIt is estimated that some 50,000 people have Chilean background (first and second generation). Earlier estimations were 45,000 (2008).\n\nBefore the 1973 Chilean coup d'état, there were some 90 Chileans in Sweden. Compared to other Latin American countries, Chile had a tradition of democratic rule and relative political stability. The early stages of mass migration were mainly consistent of politicians, militants, intellectuals and other left-leaning elements seeking political refuge, but recent arrivals usually involve working-class Chileans in search of better living conditions for themselves and their families. Today many live in the bigger cities such as Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm. Chilean Swedes are the largest and most prominent group among Latin American communities residing in Sweden.\n\nChilean people started immigrating in the 1970s in order to escape the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet. Sweden was known to be a social democratic country and the government allowed refugees to come to Sweden. But for many the time adapting to the new country was difficult. Language barriers, colder weather and monopolies on TV, radio and alcohol sales, for example, were a huge contrast to Chile. Many who came to Sweden continued to support the overthrown government of Salvador Allende. When Sweden was scheduled to play a Davis Cup tennis match against Chile in 1975, a large protest movement instigated by the Chilean diaspora sought to boycott the match and have it cancelled. The Hoola Bandoola Band even wrote a song titled \"Stoppa matchen\" (\"Stop the match\"). Almost 10,000 people demonstrated against the decision to play the match, which was eventually held as scheduled, but without spectators. When Milton Friedman received his Nobel Prize in 1976, similar protests organized both by Swedes and Chileans were once again seen on the streets.\n\nDuring the 1980s, after Pinochet's economic reforms many poverty-stricken Chileans left their home country in hope to seek better opportunities in Sweden, where there was already a sizable presence of Chileans arrived in the previous decade. Some helped the newly arrived so they could integrate in the Swedish society. For a short period immigration from Chile increased after the 1970s and once again peaked. Today Chile is considered to be democratic and prosperous by Latin American standards, which has decreased immigration after the installation of a democratic government in 1990. Chileans who want to visit Sweden can stay three months without a visa thanks to diplomatic agreements between the countries. On the other hand, for Chileans who want to stay permanently in Sweden, it has become much more difficult for them to gain a permanent visa.\n\nSince the 1990s, migration from Chile to Sweden has declined following restoration of Chilean democracy and the economy of Chile growing more successful.\n\nThe group is considered today to be one of the most well-integrated within Swedish society. This perception of assimilation resulted in Sveriges Radio (Swedish Public Radio) to announce that they would stop broadcasting news in Spanish in 2005 . Most Chilean Swedes are irreligious or atheist, as the first wave consisted mainly of Marxist supporters of Allende, whereas practicing Catholics tended to support Pinochet. Some are Catholics and celebrate Easter, Christmas and New Year in the same days as the Swedes. They are the largest Latin American group in Sweden and celebrate their culture in ways such as commemorating Chilean Independence Day or Fiestas Patrias. Thus they keep alive Chilean folk traditions such as the cueca and huaso costumes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1475737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475737", "title": "Chinese South Africans", "text": "Chinese South Africans\n\nChinese South Africans () are overseas Chinese who reside in South Africa, including those whose ancestors came to South Africa in the early 20th century until Chinese immigration was banned under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1904, Taiwanese industrialists who arrived in the 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s, and post-apartheid immigrants to South Africa (predominantly from mainland China), who now outnumber locally-born Chinese South Africans.\n\nSouth Africa has the largest population of Chinese in Africa, and most of them live in Johannesburg, the \"economic hub for all of southern Africa\".\n\nThe first Chinese to settle in South Africa were prisoners, usually debtors, exiled from Batavia by the Dutch to their then newly founded colony at Cape Town in 1660. Originally the Dutch wanted to recruit Chinese settlers to settle in the colony as farmers, thereby helping establish the colony and create a tax base so the colony would be less of a drain on Dutch coffers. However the Dutch failed to find anyone in the Chinese community in Batavia who was prepared to volunteer to go to such a far off place. The first Chinese person recorded by the Dutch to arrive in the Cape was a convict by the name of \"Ytcho Wancho\" (almost certainly a Dutch version of his original Chinese name). There were also some free Chinese in the Dutch Cape Colony. They made a living through fishing and farming and traded their produce for other required goods. From 1660 until the late 19th century the number of Chinese people in the Cape Colony never exceeded 100.\n\nChinese people began arriving in large numbers in South Africa in the 1870s through to the early 20th century initially in hopes of making their fortune on the diamond and gold mines in Kimberley and the Witwatersrand respectively. Most were independent immigrants mostly coming from Guangdong Province then known as Canton. Due to anti-Chinese feeling and racial discrimination at the time they were prevented from obtaining mining contracts and so became entrepreneurs and small business owners instead.\n\nThe Chinese community in South Africa grew steadily throughout the remainder of the 19th century, bolstered by new arrivals from China. The Anglo-Boer War, fought between 1898 and 1902, pushed some Chinese South Africans out of the Witwatersrand and into areas such as Port Elizabeth and East London in the Eastern Cape. Areas recorded to have Chinese populations moving in to settle at the time include Pageview in Johannesburg that was declared a non-white area in the late 1800s and known as the \"Malay Location\" Large-scale immigration into South Africa during this time was prohibited by the Transvaal Immigration Restriction Act of 1902 and the Cape Chinese Exclusion Act of 1904. A host of discriminatory laws similar to the anti-Chinese laws that sought to restrict trade, land ownership and citizenship were also enacted during this time. These laws were largely made popular by a general anti-Chinese feeling across the western world during the early 1900s and the arrival of over 60,000 indentured Chinese miners after the second Anglo-Boer War.\n\nThese early immigrants arriving between the 1870s and early 1900s are the ancestors of most of South Africa's first Chinese community and number some 10,000 individuals today.\n\nThere were many complicated reasons why the British chose to import Chinese labour to use on the mines. After the Anglo-Boer War, production on the gold mines of the Witwatersrand was very low due to a lack of labour. The British government was eager to get these mines back online as quickly as possible as part of their overall effort to rebuild the war-torn country.\n\nBecause of the war, unskilled black laborers had returned to rural areas and were more inclined to work on rebuilding infrastructure as mining was more dangerous. Unskilled white labour was being phased out because it was deemed too expensive. The British found recruiting and importing labour from east Asia the most expedient way to solve this problem.\n\nBetween 1904 and 1910, over 63,000 contracted miners were brought in to work the mines of the Witwatersrand. Most of these contractors were recruited from the provinces of Chihli (Zhili), Shantung (Shandong) and Honan (Henan) in China. They were repatriated after 1910, because of strong White opposition to their presence, similar to anti-Asian sentiments in the western United States, particularly California at the same time. It is a myth that the contracted miners brought into South Africa at this time are the forefathers of much of South Africa's Chinese population.\n\nHerbert Hoover, who would become the 31st U.S. President, was a director of Chinese Engineering and Mining Corporation (CEMC) when it became a supplier of coolie (Asian) labor for South African mines. The first shipment of 2,000 coolies arrived in Durban from Qinhuangdao in July 1904. By 1906, the total number of Chinese coolies increased to 50,000, almost entirely recruited and shipped by CEMC. When the living and working conditions of the laborers became known, public opposition to the scheme grew and questions were asked in the British Parliament. The scheme was abandoned in 1911.\n\nThe mass importation of Chinese labourers to work on the gold mines contributed to the fall from power of the conservative government in the United Kingdom. However, it did stimulate to the economic recovery of South Africa after the Anglo-Boer War by once again making the mines of the Witwatersrand the most productive gold mines in the world.\n\nIn 1906, about 1000 Chinese joined Indian protesters led by Mahatma Gandhi to march against laws barring Asians in the Transvaal Colony from purchasing land. In 1907, the government of the Transvaal Colony passed the Transvaal Asiatic Registration Act that required the Indian and Chinese populations in the Transvaal to be registered and for males to be fingerprinted and carry pass books. The Chinese Association made a written declaration saying that the Chinese would not register for passes and would not interact with those that did. Mahatma Gandhi started a campaign of passive resistance to protest the legislation that was supported by the Indian and Chinese communities. The secretary of the Chinese Association informed Gandhi that the Chinese were prepared to be jailed alongside Indians in support of this cause. On 16 August 1908, members of the movement gathered outside Hamidia Mosque where they burnt 1,200 registration certificates.\n\nAs with other non-White South Africans, the Chinese suffered from discrimination during apartheid, and were often classified as Coloureds, but sometimes as Asians, a category that was generally reserved for Indian South Africans. Today this segment of the South African Chinese population numbers some 10,000 individuals.\n\nUnder the apartheid-era Population Registration Act, 1950, Chinese South Africans were deemed \"Asiatic\", then \"Coloured\", and finally:\n\nChinese South Africans, along with Black, Coloured and Indian South Africans, were forcefully removed from areas declared \"Whites only\" areas by the government under the Group Areas Act in 1950. Suburbs in Johannesburg with Chinese South African populations that were subject to forced removals include Sophiatown starting in 1955, Marabastad in 1969 and the adjacent suburbs of Pageview and Vrededorp, known colloquially as 'Fietas', in 1968. Chinese South Africans were also among those removed from the South End district of Port Elizabeth beginning in 1965. These removals resulted in the formation of a Chinese township in Port Elizabeth.\n\nIn 1966 the South African Institute of Race Relations described the negative effects of apartheid legislation on the Chinese community and the resulting brain drain:\n\nIn 1928, the liquor legislation was amended to allow Indian South Africans to purchase liquor. Following an amendment in 1962, other non-white South Africans could purchase alcohol, but not drink in white areas. In 1976, the law was amended to allow Chinese South Africans to drink alcohol in white areas.\n\nIn 1984, the Tricameral Parliament was established by the government to give Coloured and Indian South Africans a limited influence on South African politics. The Tricameral Parliament was criticised by anti-apartheid groups including the United Democratic Front, who promoted a boycott of the Tricameral Parliament elections, as it still excluded Black people and had very little political power in South Africa. The Chinese South African community refused to participate in this parliament. Previously, the Chinese Association had expelled a member who had been appointed to the President's Council, a body established to advise on constitutional reform.\n\nWith the establishment of ties between apartheid South Africa and Taiwan (officially the Republic of China), Taiwanese (as well as some Hong Kong Chinese) started migrating to South Africa from the late 1970s onwards. Due to apartheid South Africa's desire to attract their investment in South Africa and the many poorer Bantustans within the country, they were exempt from many apartheid laws and regulations. This created an odd situation whereby South Africans of Chinese descent continued to be classified as Coloureds or Asians, whereas the Taiwanese Chinese and certain other east Asian expatriates (esp. South Koreans and Japanese) were considered \"honorary whites\" and enjoyed most, if not all, of the rights accorded to White South Africans.\n\nThe South African government also offered a number of economic incentives to investors from Taiwan seeking to set up factories and businesses in the country. These generous incentives ranged from \"paying for relocation costs, subsidised wages for seven years, subsidised commercial rent for ten years, housing loans, cheap transport of goods to urban areas, and favourable exchange rates\".\n\nIn 1984, South African Chinese, now increased to about 10,000, finally obtained the same official rights as the Japanese in South Africa, that is, to be treated as whites in terms of the Group Areas Act. The arrival of the Taiwanese resulted in a surge of the ethnic Chinese population of South Africa, which climbed from around 10,000 in the early 1980s to at least 20,000 in the early 1990s. Many Taiwanese were entrepreneurs who set up small companies, particularly in the textile sector, across South Africa. It is estimated that by the end of the early 1990s Taiwanese industrialists had invested $2 billion (or $2.94 billion in 2011 dollars) in South Africa and employed roughly 50,000 people.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early first decade of the 21st century many of the Taiwanese left South Africa partly due to official recognition of the People's Republic of China and a post apartheid crime wave that swept the country. Numbers dropped from a high of around 30,000 Taiwanese citizens in the mid-1990s to the current population of approximately 6,000 today.\n\nFollowing the end of apartheid in 1994, mainland Chinese began immigrating to South Africa in large numbers, increasing the Chinese population in South Africa to an estimated 300,000-400,000 in 2015. In Johannesburg, in particular, a new Chinatown has emerged in the eastern suburbs of Cyrildene and Bruma Lake, replacing the declining one in the city centre. A Chinese housing development has also been established in the small town of Bronkhorstspruit, east of Pretoria, as well as a massive new “city” in development in Johannesburg.\n\nUnder apartheid, some Chinese South Africans were discriminated against in various forms by the apartheid government. However, they were originally excluded from benefiting under the Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) programmes of the new South African government. This changed in mid-2008 when, in a case brought by the Chinese Association of South Africa, the Pretoria division of the High Court of South Africa ruled that Chinese South Africans who were South African citizens before 1994, as well as their descendants, qualify as previously disadvantaged individuals as Coloureds, and therefore are eligible to benefit under BEE and other affirmative action policies and programmes. The Chinese Association of South Africa was represented by human rights lawyer George Bizos in court during the case. However, Chinese South Africans who immigrated to the country after 1994 will be ineligible to benefit under the policies. In September 2015, Department of Trade and Industry deputy director general Sipho Zikode clarified who the ruling was meant to benefit. He said that not all Chinese in South Africa were eligible for BEE. He confirmed that only Chinese who were South African citizens prior to 1994, numbering \"about 10,000\" were eligible.\n\nThe immigration of mainland Chinese, by far the largest group of Chinese in South Africa, can be divided into three periods. The first group arrived in the late 1980s and early 1990s along with the Taiwanese immigrants. Unlike the Taiwanese immigrants, lacking the capital to start larger firms, most established small businesses. Although becoming relatively prosperous a large number of this group left South Africa, either back to China or to more developed Western countries, around the same time and for much the same reason as the Taiwanese immigrants left. The second group, arriving mostly from Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces in the 1990s, were wealthier, better educated, and very entrepreneurial. The latest and ongoing group began arriving after 2000 and primarily made up of small traders and peasants from Fujian province. There are also many Chinese from other regions in China. As of 2013, there were 57 different regional Chinese associations operating in the Cyrildene Chinatown.\n\nAlthough the Chinese South African community is a most law-abiding community that has maintained a low profile in modern South Africa, there is speculation that local criminal gangs in South Africa barter abalone illegally with Chinese nationals and triad societies in exchange for chemicals used in the production of drugs, reducing the need for the use of money and hence avoiding difficulties associated with money laundering.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16331166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16331166", "title": "Constructive Program", "text": "Constructive Program\n\nConstructive Program (CP) is a term coined by Mahatma Gandhi to describe one of the two branches of his satyagraha, the other being some form on nonviolence resistance, e.g. civil disobedience, sometimes referred to as \"obstructive program\". CP is a way of carrying out a struggle through community and self-improvement by building structures, systems, processes, and resources that are alternatives to oppression and promote self-sufficiency and unity in the resisting community.\n\nThough not as well known as his nonviolence resistance programs, Gandhi recognized the value of constructive program and used it successfully as early as the first year of his campaigns in South Africa, 1894. In fact, the value of CP in the struggle for the independence of India cannot be overemphasized, as he described civil disobedience as \"an aid to constructive effort.\" Gandhi wrote to his friend and supporter, Jamnalal Bajaj, saying, \"My real politics is constructive work.\" \n\nContemporary nonviolent struggles often lack constructive program, which could easily be integrated and enable them to be proactive, maintain continuity of effort when direct resistance is not possible, and convince the public and opposition that they are not simply disruptive but have the capacity to build as well. Most importantly constructive program can build alternative institutions so that a successful insurrection does not lead merely to a power vacuum that lets oppression back in, as for example in Egypt after the otherwise successful overthrow of President Mubarak in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21029649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21029649", "title": "Fatal Misconception", "text": "Fatal Misconception\n\nFatal Misconception: The Struggle to Control World Population is a 2008 book by Matthew Connelly, an associate professor of history at Columbia University.\n\nEfforts to control population have been controversial, and Connelly argues that \"the road to controlling population growth in the 20th century was paved with good intentions and unpleasant policies that did not work\". For example, millions of intrauterine contraceptive devices were exported to poor countries although they were known to cause infections and sterility.\n\nNicholas Kristof reviewed the book favorably for \"The New York Times\", but concluded: \"It’s certainly fair of Connelly to dredge up the forced sterilizations, the casual disregard for injuries caused by IUDs, the racism and sexism and all the rest — but we also need to remember that all that is history. The family planning movement has corrected itself, and today it saves the lives of women in poor countries and is central to efforts to reduce poverty worldwide. If we allow that past to tarnish today’s efforts by family planning organizations, women in poor countries will be doubly hurt.\"\n\nReihan Salam reviewed the book for the \"New York Sun\", where he raised some cautionary points.\n\nJames Hughes, executive director of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies (IEET) reviewed the book for \"Times Higher Education\". Hughes concluded: \"Connelly's pessimism that international institutions can ever be as accountable as national governments is hopefully unwarranted. It seems likely that transnational bodies will be increasingly important in ensuring the health and wellbeing of the nine or ten billion people the planet will soon hold.\"\n\nHelen Epstein reviewed the book favorably for the \"New York Review of Books\", concluding: \"The population control movement was a small part of US foreign policy, but its history reminds us of the point American policymakers keep missing: universal human rights are not a luxury. They are themselves the goals we should be seeking.\"\n\nDiana Wyndham reviewed the book for the \"Australian Review of Public Affairs\", concluding: \"Connelly’s apparent balance—he opposes both pro- and anti-population control excesses—means he is more likely to reach and convince a broader audience to accept his argument that global population control services are bad and should cease. A major worry is that this book’s catalogue of failed population control programs will be used by ‘Pro-life’ groups who want to reinstate the 1984 Mexico City policy ban which, by denying aid, spread sexually transmitted diseases and increased pregnancy-related deaths. If, as he believes, ‘the heroic age of population control is over’ (p. 16), life on this planet will end because there is only a finite supply of water, food and natural resources. There is wisdom in the family planning slogan: ‘Hope is not a method’.\"\n"}
{"id": "24911116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911116", "title": "Gretchen Shappert", "text": "Gretchen Shappert\n\nGretchen C. F. Shappert was United States Attorney for the western district of North Carolina from 2004-2009.\n\nShappert stressed tough prosecution of drug offenders while in office. Shappert also served as chair of the Justice Department's subcommitee on Native American issues. Shappert also opposed retroactively lessening prison sentences related to crack-cocaine.\n\nShappert passed the North Carolina bar in 1980. She graduated from Duke University in 1977, and from Washington and Lee Law School. She was in private practice and was an assistant district attorney and an assistant public defender in Charlotte before becoming a federal prosecutor.\n\nShappert resigned as U.S. Attorney in March 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "26659905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26659905", "title": "Gujarati Shaikh", "text": "Gujarati Shaikh\n\nThe Shaikh are a Muslim community found in the state of Gujarat in India. They are part of the larger Shaikh community of South Asia. Included within the Shaikh community are the Shaikhda of Bharuch district and the Sodagar of Patan.\n\nThe word Shaikh in Arabic means a tribal elder or headman.\n\nThe term Shaikh can cover a community of no definite origin, since the name has been used by any individuals of wide background. Mostly influential people or poor farmers converted by Sufi saints used to adopt Shaikh title.\n\nThey played a key role in the early Islamic history of Gujarat, serving as courtiers and administrators for the Sultans of Gujarat and later Mughal rulers. After the breakup of the Mughal Empire, they became rulers of a number of states in the Kathiawar region, with Mangrol being the most important.\n\nThe community is found mainly in Ahmedabad, Bharuch, Godhra, Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh, Bhavnagar and the Kutch District. They are essentially an urban community, except the Shaikh of Kutch. The Kutchi Shaikh have three groups of equal status, the Shaikh Dada, Shaikh Sayed and Shaikh Fakeer. The first two are found in Kanyabee village and the last group in Shaikh Sumrasar village of the Bhuj taluka.\n\nThe Shaikh of Bharuch include the Hansotis, a unique community, who initially arose from the Hansot taluka of Gujarat. The Hansoti dialect, which has often been assigned to a broader language known as \"Bombay Urdu\" has an archaic proto-Urdu character; it has retained Arabic and Turkic words which other Urdu dialects do not.\n\nModern Hansotis are a product of both indigenous populations, such as Punjabis, Rajputs and Sindhis, and diverse historic immigration, from countries including Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Khorasan (Central Asia) and Habshis! (North-east Africa).\n\nProminent people from Hansot include:\n\nThe Shaikh of Gujarat are largely an urban community, with the exception being the Shaikh of Kutch, who are largely farmers. In Kutch, the Shaikh undertake rain fed agriculture, and grow mainly wheat, sorghum and groundnuts. A few rear goat, sheep and cattle. Those in the urban area engage in a number of occupation, and have traditions similar to other Gujarati Muslims community. The majority of the Shaikh are Sunni, the only exception being the Shaikh families of the town of Khambhat, who are Shia. Like other Gujarati Muslims, they too have a statewide caste association, the Shaikh Samyukh Mowath Jamat. The Shaikh of Gujarat have differing native languages depending on their particular ethnogenesis. Some speak Gujarati with large number of Urdu loanwords, while those of Kutch speak Kutchi. ., & yet others speak archaic proto-Urdu e.g. Hansotis.\n\nThe Sodagar or Arab Shaikh are a small sub-group within the larger Shaikh community. They originate from the Hadhramaut region of Yemen, and settled in the city of Patan, during the period of Mughal rule, and intermarried with the Sunni Bohra community. The community were involved the buying and selling of silk, and exporting it to the Middle East. They still maintain links with the Middle East, being fluent in Arabic. But the Sodagar mohalla in Patan has declined, with many of their houses becoming crumbling ruins. They have their own caste association, the Jamat Shams Sofdagaran, which is involved in the up keep of their jamat khana, in the town of Patan. They are strictly endogamous, and do not marry with other Shaikh groups. There are still cases of intermarriage with Arab communities in the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "34315437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34315437", "title": "Habibullah Fawzi", "text": "Habibullah Fawzi\n\nHabibullah Fawzi is a citizen of Afghanistan, who was a senior diplomat during the Taliban's administration of Afghanistan, and was appointed to the Afghanistan High Peace Council in September 2010.\nFawzi had served as the Charge D'Affairs at the Taliban's embassy in Saudi Arabia.\n\nOn January 7, 2002, \"Newsday\" described Habibullah as one of the senior Taliban leaders who had defected, went into exile in Pakistan, and were seeking a peaceful role in Afghanistan's politics.\nThe defectors revived a defunct political party, Jamiat Khudamul Furgan, translated as \"Association of the servants of the Quran\".\n\nIn 2005 Habibullah, and three other former Taliban leaders described as moderates, Abdul Hakim Mujahid, Arsullah Rahmani and Rahmatullah Wahidyar met with officials of the Hamid Karzai administration to discuss the possible surrender of active Taliban fighters.\n\"Radio Free Europe\" interviewed Habibullah in March 2005.\nIn an interview published on March 4, 2005 \"Radio Free Europe\", Habibullah said that the moderates had been in talks with the Karzai administration for the previous two years.\n\nHabibullah, and the other three men had been named on the United Nations 1267 list, a list of several hundred individuals upon whom member nations were to impose financial sanctions because they were suspected of playing a role in international terrorism.\nThe list was first published in 1999.\nThe United Nations removed Habibullah and the other three men in July 2011.\n\nIn September 2011 Habibullah was one of the former Taliban officials who offered details as to how a Taliban messenger had assassinated Burnahuddin Rabbani, the former President of Afghanistan who chaired the High Peace Council.\n"}
{"id": "59210014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59210014", "title": "Han languages", "text": "Han languages\n\nThe Han languages (Korean: 한어; 韓語) or Samhan languages (Korean: 삼한어; 三韓語) was a branch of the ancient Koreanic languages, referring to the non-Buyeo Koreanic languages, once spoken in the southern Korean Peninsula, which was closely related to the Buyeo languages. \n\nThe Han languages were spoken in the Mahan, Byeonhan and Jinhan. The extent of Han languages are unclear. It is generally accepted as including Sillan, and may also have included Baekje language.\n\nOne of the most prominent leader of the Han (Korean: 한; 韓) Immigration was King Jun of Gojoseon from the northern Korea, having lost the throne to Wiman, fled to the state of Jin in southern Korea around 194 - 180 BC. He and his followers established Mahan which was one of the Samhan (\"Three Hans\"), along with Byeonhan and Jinhan. Further Han(韓) migration followed the fall of Gojoseon and establishment of the Chinese commanderies in 108 BC.\n\n"}
{"id": "19148223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19148223", "title": "Ika people", "text": "Ika people\n\nIka\n\nThe Ika people are found in Delta and Edo states of southern Nigeria. The Ika people speak Ika language, a unique language with elements of Benin and Igbo languages. They share borders linguistically in the west with the Edo speakers, in the north with the Ishan speakers, in the East with the Enuani speakers and in the south with the Ukwale speakers.[1]\n\nThe Ika people are specifically located in the North-West of Delta State but some of their communities like Igbanke, Inyelen and Ekpon spilled over into Edo State. Ika communities mostly comprise the following: Agbor, Owa, Umunede, Owerre Olubor, Ekuoma, Emuhu, Mbiri, Abavo, Orogodo, Otolokpo, Igbodo, Ute-Okpu, Ute-Ogbeje, Idumuesah, Akumazi, Ekpon (Edo State), Igbanke (Edo State), Inyelen Edo State), Iru (Edo State). Other Ika communities found in Edo State are Owanikeke,Ute Obagie, Owa-Riuzo Idu and Igbogili.\n\nContents\n1 Location\n2 Language\n3 Origin\n4 Religion\n5 Prominent Ika people\n6 References\n7 External links\nLocation\nGeographically, the Ika speaking people are found in the north west of Delta State. They share borders linguistically in the west with the Edo speakers, in the north with the Ishan speakers, in the East with the Aniocha language speakers and in the south with the Ukwuani speakers. Politically, Ika speakers are mainly found in two local government areas, Ika North East and Ika South local government areas, both created in 1991 from a single Ika Local Government Area, in Delta State. Ika South and Ika North East local government areas, occupy a land area of 117.45 square kilometres (Delta State Government website, 1999) with a total population of about 240,000 people. There are other Ika speaking people that are political outside the Ika North east and Ika South local government areas. The exact population of speakers of the Ika language or those with Ika as mother tongue is not known since this information was not included in the 1991 census result (1991 census). Ika people do not have any shared physical characteristics distinguishing it from other ethnic or language groups in Delta State.\n\nLanguage\nIka people speak the Ika language which has both elements of Benin and Igbo, this is what makes the language unique. To keep the language alive, there is now news in Ika language as a different language on Delta radio. Ikas have commenced writing the bible in Ika language and right now the gospel of Mathew, Mark, Luke and John have been published and there are books written in Ika language as well.\n\nOrigin\nThe Ika people do not trace their ancestry to common origin. The various clans that make up Ika have heterogeneous origins. Similarities of the language with Igbo suggests they might be Igbo connections but oral accounts and cultures as well as ancient ika name suggests bini origin. Ika historians have argued that changes in language can occur due to large migrations or trade or due to other factors.\n\nReligion\nThe Ika people are predominantly Christians although traditional worship is still much in progress as ika people have been recorded to have kicked against the white men greatly. Ika people refer to God as Oselobue and Chukwu.\n\nProminent Ika people\nJim Ovia, Nigerian business man ; founder of Zenith Bank\nSebastine Okoh, EA To Governor Of Delta State On Event Ceo Stiinos Ltd\nGodwin Emefiele, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria\nAkpenyi Simeon, Nigerian business man\nNduka Obaigbe\n"}
{"id": "15087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15087", "title": "Imbolc", "text": "Imbolc\n\nImbolc or Imbolg ( ), also called (Saint) Brigid's Day (, , ), is a Gaelic traditional festival marking the beginning of spring. Most commonly it is held on 1 and 2 February, or about halfway between the winter solstice and the spring equinox. Historically, it was widely observed throughout Ireland, Scotland and the Isle of Man. It is one of the four Gaelic seasonal festivals—along with Beltane, Lughnasadh and Samhain—and corresponds to the Welsh \"\". For Christians, especially in Ireland, it is the feast day of Saint Brigid.\n\nImbolc is mentioned in some of the earliest Irish literature and there is evidence it has been an important date since ancient times. It was originally a pagan festival associated with the goddess Brigid (goddess of fertility) and that it was Christianized as a festival of Saint Brigid, who is thought to be a Christianization of the goddess. At Imbolc, Brigid's crosses were made and a doll-like figure of Brigid, called a \"\", would be paraded from house-to-house. Brigid was said to visit one's home at Imbolc. To receive her blessings, people would make a bed for Brigid and leave her food and drink, while items of clothing would be left outside for her to bless. Brigid was also invoked to protect homes and livestock. Special feasts were had, holy wells were visited and it was also a time for divination.\n\nAlthough many of its customs died out in the 20th century, it is still observed and in some places it has been revived as a cultural event. Since the latter 20th century, Celtic neopagans and Wiccans have observed Imbolc as a religious holiday.\n\nThe etymology of Imbolc/Imbolg is unclear. The most common explanation is that is comes from the Old Irish \"i mbolc\" (Modern Irish \"i mbolg\"), meaning \"in the belly\", and refers to the pregnancy of ewes. Another possible origin is the Old Irish \"imb-fholc\", \"to wash/cleanse oneself\", referring to a ritual cleansing. Eric P. Hamp derives it from a Proto-Indo-European root meaning both \"milk\" and \"cleansing\". Professor Alan Ward derives it from the Proto-Celtic \"*embibolgon\", \"budding\". The 10th century Cormac's Glossary derives it from \"oimelc\", \"ewe milk\", but many scholars see this as a folk etymology. Nevertheless, some Neopagans have adopted \"Oimelc\" as a name for the festival.\n\nSince Imbolc is immediately followed (on 2 February) by Candlemas (Irish \"Lá Fhéile Muire na gCoinneal\" \"feast day of Mary of the Candles\", Welsh \"Gŵyl Fair y Canhwyllau\"), Irish \"Imbolc\" is sometimes translated into English as \"Candlemas\"; e.g. \"iar n-imbulc, ba garb a ngeilt\" translated as \"after Candlemas, rough was their herding\".\n\nThe date of Imbolc is thought to have been significant in Ireland since the Neolithic period. This is based on the alignment of some Megalithic monuments. For example, at the Mound of the Hostages on the Hill of Tara, the inner chamber is aligned with the rising sun on the dates of Imbolc and Samhain.\n\nIn Gaelic Ireland, Imbolc was the \"feis\" or festival marking the beginning of spring, during which great feasts were held. It is attested in some of the earliest Old Irish literature, from the 10th century onward. It was one of four Gaelic seasonal festivals: Samhain (~1 November), Imbolc (~1 February), Beltane (~1 May) and Lughnasadh (~1 August).\n\nFrom the 18th century to the mid 20th century, many accounts of Imbolc or St Brigid's Day were recorded by folklorists and other writers. They tell us how it was celebrated then, and shed light on how it may have been celebrated in the past.\nImbolc has traditionally been celebrated on 1 February. However, because the day was deemed to begin and end at sunset, the celebrations would start on what is now 31 January. It has also been argued that the timing of the festival was originally more fluid and based on seasonal changes. It has been associated with the onset of the lambing season—which could vary by as much as two weeks before or after 1 February—and the blooming of blackthorn.\n\nThe holiday was a festival of the hearth and home, and a celebration of the lengthening days and the early signs of spring. Celebrations often involved hearthfires, special foods, divination or watching for omens, candles or a bonfire if the weather permitted. Fire and purification were an important part of the festival. The lighting of candles and fires represented the return of warmth and the increasing power of the Sun over the coming months. A spring cleaning was also customary.\n\nHoly wells were visited at Imbolc, and at the other Gaelic festivals of Beltane and Lughnasa. Visitors to holy wells would pray for health while walking 'sunwise' around the well. They would then leave offerings; typically coins or clooties (see clootie well). Water from the well was used to bless the home, family members, livestock and fields.\n\nDonald Alexander Mackenzie also recorded that offerings were made \"to earth and sea\". The offering could be milk poured into the ground or porridge poured into the water, as a libation.\n\nImbolc is strongly associated with Saint Brigid (, modern Irish: ', modern Scottish Gaelic: ' or \"\", anglicised \"Bridget\"). Saint Brigid is thought to have been based on Brigid, a Gaelic goddess. The festival, which celebrates the onset of spring, is thought to be linked with Brigid in her role as a fertility goddess.\n\nOn Imbolc Eve, Brigid was said to visit virtuous households and bless the inhabitants. As Brigid represented the light half of the year, and the power that will bring people from the dark season of winter into spring, her presence was very important at this time of year.\n\nFamilies would have a special meal or supper on Imbolc Eve. This typically included food such as colcannon, sowans, dumplings, barmbrack and/or bannocks. Often, some of the food and drink would be set aside for Brigid.\n\nBrigid would be symbolically invited into the house and a bed would often be made for her. In the north of Ireland a family member, representing Brigid, would circle the home three times carrying rushes. They would then knock the door three times, asking to be let in. On the third attempt they are welcomed in, the meal is had, and the rushes are then made into a bed or crosses. In 18th century Mann, the custom was to stand at the door with a bundle of rushes and say \"Brede, Brede, come to my house tonight. Open the door for Brede and let Brede come in\". The rushes were then strewn on the floor as a carpet or bed for Brigid. In the 19th century, some old Manx women would make a bed for Brigid in the barn with food, ale, and a candle on a table. In the Hebrides in the late 18th century, a bed of hay would be made for Brigid and someone would then call out three times: \"'\" (\", come in; thy bed is ready\"). A white wand, usually made of birch, would be set by the bed. It represented the wand that Brigid was said to use to make the vegetation start growing again. In the 19th century, women in the Hebrides would dance while holding a large cloth and calling out \"'\" (\", come over and make your bed\"). However, by this time the bed itself was rarely made.\n\nBefore going to bed, people would leave items of clothing or strips of cloth outside for Brigid to bless. Ashes from the fire would be raked smooth and, in the morning, they would look for some kind of mark on the ashes as a sign that Brigid had visited. The clothes or strips of cloth would be brought inside, and believed to now have powers of healing and protection.\n\nIn Ireland and Scotland, a representation of Brigid would be paraded around the community by girls and young women. Sometimes the representative was a girl, but usually it was a doll-like figure known as a ' (also called a 'Breedhoge' or 'Biddy'). It would be made from rushes or reeds and clad in bits of cloth, shells and/or flowers. In the Hebrides of Scotland, a bright shell or crystal called the ' (guiding star of Brigid) was set on its chest. The girls would carry it in procession while singing a hymn to Brigid. All wore white with their hair unbound as a symbol of purity and youth. They visited every house in the area, where they received either food or more decoration for the . Afterwards, they feasted in a house with the set in a place of honour, and put it to bed with lullabies. When the meal was done, the local young men humbly asked for admission, made obeisance to the , and joined the girls in dancing and merrymaking. In many parts, only unwed girls could carry the , but in some places both boys and girls carried it. In the late 17th century, Catholic families in the Hebrides would make a bed for the out of a basket. Up until the mid-20th century, children in Ireland still went house-to-house asking for pennies for \"poor Biddy\", or money for the poor. In County Kerry, men in white robes went from house to house singing.\n\nIn Ireland, Brigid's crosses (\"pictured on the right\") were made at Imbolc. A Brigid's cross usually consists of rushes woven into a square or equilateral cross, although three-armed crosses have also been recorded. They were often hung over doors, windows and stables to welcome Brigid and protect the buildings from fire and lightning. The crosses were generally left there until the next Imbolc. In western , people would make a \"\" ('s girdle); a great ring of rushes with a cross woven in the middle. Young boys would carry it around the village, inviting people to step through it and so be blessed.\n\nToday, some people still make Brigid's crosses and s or visit holy wells dedicated to St Brigid on 1 February.\n\nThe Biddy is an ancient tradition associated with Mid Kerry, Ireland. A Biddy group consists of masked men and women dressed in white and wearing elaborate straw hats. Biddy groups visit rural and public houses. They carry a Brídeóg (effigy/doll of brigid as a child) with them to ensure evil spirits are kept away from humans and animals alike for the coming year. In each establishment, they will play music and put on displays of dancing and singing. The Biddy’s heritage is a mixture of Christianity (St Bridgid) and ancient Celtic traditions (Imbolc).\n\nTraditionally, a visit from the Biddy guaranteed good luck, fertility, prosperity and to not receive a visit was considered a terrible sleight. A unique festival to celebrate the Biddy tradition is held annually in Killorglin. The highlight of this festival is the torchlight parade of the Biddies throughout the town followed by the King of the Biddy's contest.\n\nImbolc was traditionally a time of weather divination, and the old tradition of watching to see if serpents or badgers came from their winter dens may be a forerunner of the North American Groundhog Day. A Scottish Gaelic proverb about the day is:\nImbolc was believed to be when the —the divine hag of Gaelic tradition—gathers her firewood for the rest of the winter. Legend has it that if she wishes to make the winter last a good while longer, she will make sure the weather on Imbolc is bright and sunny, so she can gather plenty of firewood. Therefore, people would be relieved if Imbolc is a day of foul weather, as it means the is asleep and winter is almost over. At Imbolc on the Isle of Man, where she is known as \"\", the is said to take the form of a gigantic bird carrying sticks in her beak.\n\nImbolc or Imbolc-based festivals are held by some Neopagans. As there are many kinds of Neopaganism, their Imbolc celebrations can be very different despite the shared name. Some try to emulate the historic festival as much as possible. Other Neopagans base their celebrations on many sources, with historic accounts of Imbolc being only one of them.\n\nNeopagans usually celebrate Imbolc on 1 February in the Northern Hemisphere and 1 August in the Southern Hemisphere. Some Neopagans celebrate it at the astronomical midpoint between the winter solstice and spring equinox (or the full moon nearest this point). In the Northern Hemisphere, this is usually on the 3rd or 4 February. Other Neopagans celebrate Imbolc when the primroses, dandelions, and other spring flowers emerge.\n\nCeltic Reconstructionists strive to reconstruct the pre-Christian religions of the Celts. Their religious practices are based on research and historical accounts, but may be modified slightly to suit modern life. They avoid syncretism (i.e. combining practises from different cultures). They usually celebrate the festival when the first stirrings of spring are felt, or on the full moon nearest this. Many use traditional songs and rites from sources such as \"The Silver Bough\" and \"The Carmina Gadelica\". It is a time of honouring the Goddess Brigid, and many of her dedicants choose this time of year for rituals to her.\n\nWiccans and Neo-Druids celebrate Imbolc as one of the eight Sabbats in their Wheel of the Year, following Midwinter and preceding Ostara. In Wicca, Imbolc is commonly associated with the goddess Brigid and as such it is sometimes seen as a \"women's holiday\" with specific rites only for female members of a coven. Among Dianic Wiccans, Imbolc is the traditional time for initiations.\n\n\n\n\nModern events\n"}
{"id": "161022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161022", "title": "Indian independence movement", "text": "Indian independence movement\n\nThe Indian independence movement was a series of activities whose ultimate aim was to end the British Raj and encompassed activities and ideas aiming to end the East India Company rule (1757–1857) and the British Raj (1857–1947) in the Indian subcontinent. The movement spanned a total of 90 years (1857–1947) considering movement against British Indian Empire. The Indian Independence movement includes both protest (peaceful and non-violent) and militant (violent) mechanisms to root out British Administration from India.\n\nThe first organised militant movements were in Bengal, but they later took root in the newly formed Indian National Congress with prominent moderate leaders seeking only their basic right to appear for Indian Civil Service (British India) examinations, as well as more rights, economic in nature, for the people of the soil. The early part of the 20th century saw a more radical approach towards political self-rule proposed by leaders such as the Lal, Bal, Pal and Aurobindo Ghosh, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai. The last stages of the self-rule struggle from the 1920s onwards saw Congress adopt Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi's policy of nonviolence and civil disobedience, and several other campaigns. Nationalists like Subhash Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Bagha Jatin preached armed revolution to achieve self-rule. Poets and writers such as Subramania Bharati, Rabindranath Tagore, Muhammad Iqbal, Josh Malihabadi, Mohammad Ali Jouhar, Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay and Kazi Nazrul Islam used literature, poetry and speech as a tool for political awareness. Feminists such as Sarojini Naidu and Begum Rokeya promoted the emancipation of Indian women and their participation in national politics. B. R. Ambedkar championed the cause of the disadvantaged sections of Indian society within the larger self-rule movement. The period of the Second World War saw the peak of the campaigns by the Quit India Movement led by Congress, and the Indian National Army movement led by Subhas Chandra Bose.\n\nThe Indian self-rule movement was a mass-based movement that encompassed various sections of society. It also underwent a process of constant ideological evolution. Although the basic ideology of the movement was anti-colonial, it was supported by a vision of independent capitalist economic development coupled with a secular, democratic, republican, and civil-libertarian political structure. After the 1930s, the movement took on a strong socialist orientation, owing to the influence of Bhagat Singh's demand of Purna Swaraj (Complete Self-Rule). The work of these various movements led ultimately to the Indian Independence Act 1947, which ended the suzerainty in India and the creation of Pakistan. India remained a Dominion of the Crown until 26 January 1950, when the \"Constitution of India\" came into force, establishing the Republic of India; Pakistan was a dominion until 1956, when it adopted its first republican constitution. In 1971, East Pakistan declared independence as the People's Republic of Bangladesh.\n\nEuropean traders first reached Indian shores with the arrival of the Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama in 1498 at the port of Calicut, in search of the lucrative spice trade. Just over a century later, the Dutch and English established trading outposts on the subcontinent, with the first English trading post set up at Surat in 1613. Over the course of the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, the British defeated the Portuguese and Dutch militarily, but remained in conflict with the French, who had by then sought to establish themselves in the subcontinent. The decline of the Mughal Empire in the first half of the eighteenth century provided the British with the opportunity to establish a firm foothold in Indian politics. After the Battle of Plassey in 1757, during which the East India Company's Indian Army under Robert Clive defeated Siraj ud-Daulah, the Nawab of Bengal, the Company established itself as a major player in Indian affairs, and soon afterwards gained administrative rights over the regions of Bengal, Bihar and Midnapur part of Orissa, following the Battle of Buxar in 1764. After the defeat of Tipu Sultan, most of South India came either under the Company's direct rule, or under its indirect political control as part a princely state in a subsidiary alliance. The Company subsequently gained control of regions ruled by the Maratha Empire, after defeating them in a series of wars. The Punjab was annexed in 1849, after the defeat of the Sikh armies in the First (1845–1846) and Second (1848–49) Anglo-Sikh Wars.\n\nEnglish was made the medium of instruction in India's schools in 1835, and many Indians increasingly disliked British rule. The English tried to impose the Western standards of education and culture on Indian masses, believing in the 18th century superiority of Western culture and enlightenment.\n\nPuli Thevar was one of the opponents of the British rule in India. He was in conflict with the Nawab of Arcot who was supported by the British. His prominent exploits were his confrontations with Marudhanayagam, who later rebelled against the British in the late 1750s and early 1760s. Nelkatumseval the present Tirunelveli Dist of Tamil Nadu state of India was the headquarters of Puli Thevan\n\nSyed Mir Nisar Ali Titumir; 27 January 1782 – 19 November 1831) was an Islamic preacher who led a peasant uprising against the Hindu zamindars, British India during the 19th century. Along with his followers, he built a bamboo fort (Bansher Kella in Bengali) in Narkelberia Village, which passed into Bengali folk legend. After the storming of the fort by British soldiers, Titumir died of his wounds on 19 November 1831.\n\nThe toughest resistance the Company experienced was offered by Mysore. The Anglo–Mysore Wars were a series of wars fought in over the last three decades of the 18th century between the Kingdom of Mysore on the one hand, and the British East India Company (represented chiefly by the Madras Presidency), and Maratha Confederacyand the Nizam of Hyderabad on the other. Hyder Ali and his successor Tipu Sultan fought a war on four fronts with the British attacking from the west, south and east, while the Marathas and the Nizam's forces attacked from the north. The fourth war resulted in the overthrow of the house of Hyder Ali and Tipu (who was killed in the final war, in 1799), and the dismantlement of Mysore to the benefit of the East India Company, which won and took control of much of India.\n\nKerala Varma Pazhassi Raja was one of the earliest freedom fighters in India. He was the prince regent of the princely state of Kottiyur or Cotiote in North Malabar, near Kannur, India between 1774 and 1805. He fought a guerrilla war with tribal people from Wynad supporting him. He was caught by the British and his fort was razed to the ground.\n\nRani Velu Nachiyar (1730–1796), was a queen of Indian Sivaganga from 1760 to 1790. She was the first queen to fight against the British in India. Rani Nachiyar was trained in war match weapons usage, martial arts like Valari, Silambam (fighting using stick), horse riding and archery. She was a scholar in many languages and she had proficiency with languages like French, English and Urdu. When her husband, Muthuvaduganathaperiya Udaiyathevar, was killed by British soldiers and the son of the Nawab of Arcot, she was drawn into battle. She formed an army and sought an alliance with Gopala Nayaker and Hyder Ali with the aim of attacking the British, whom she did successfully fight in 1780. When Rani Velu Nachiyar found the place where the British stored their ammunition, she arranged a suicide attack: a faithful follower, Kuyili, doused herself in oil, set herself alight and walked into the storehouse. Rani Velu Nachiyar formed a woman's army named \"udaiyaal\" in honour of her adopted daughter, Udaiyaal, who died detonating a British arsenal. Rani Nachiyar was one of the few rulers who regained her kingdom, and ruled it for ten more years.\n\nVeerapandiya Kattabomman was an eighteenth-century Polygar and chieftain from Panchalankurichi in Tamil Nadu, India who waged a war against the East India Company. He was captured by the British and hanged in 1799 CE. Kattabomman refused to accept the sovereignty of East India Company, and fought against them. Dheeran Chinnamalai was a Kongu chieftain and Palayakkarar from Tamil Nadu who fought against the East India Company. After Kattabomman and Tipu Sultan's deaths, Chinnamalai sought the help of Marathas and Maruthu Pandiyar to attack the British at Coimbatore in 1800. British forces managed to stop the armies of the allies and hence Chinnamalai was forced to attack Coimbatore on his own. His army was defeated and he escaped from the British forces. Chinnamalai engaged in guerrilla warfare and defeated the British in battles at Cauvery in 1801, Odanilai in 1802 and Arachalur in 1804.\n\nIn September 1804, the King of Khordha, Kalinga was deprived of the traditional rights of Jagannath Temple which was a serious shock to the King and the people of Odisha. Consequently, in October 1804 a group of armed Paiks attacked the British at Pipili. This event alarmed the British force. Jayee Rajguru, the chief of Army of Kalinga requested all the kings of the state to join hands for a common cause against the British. Rajguru was killed on 6 December 1806. After Rajguru's death, Bakshi Jagabandhu commanded an armed rebellion against the East India Company's rule in Odisha which is known as Paik Rebellion.\n\nThe Indian rebellion of 1857 was a large-scale rebellion in the northern and central India against the British East India Company's rule. It was suppressed and the British government took control of the company. The conditions of service in the company's army and cantonments increasingly came into conflict with the religious beliefs and prejudices of the sepoys. The predominance of members from the upper castes in the army, perceived loss of caste due to overseas travel, and rumours of secret designs of the government to convert them to Christianity led to deep discontent among the sepoys. The sepoys were also disillusioned by their low salaries and the racial discrimination practised by British officers in matters of promotion and privileges. The indifference of the British towards leading native Indian rulers such as the Mughals and ex-Peshwas and the annexation of Oudh were political factors triggering dissent amongst Indians. The Marquess of Dalhousie's policy of annexation, the doctrine of lapse (or escheat) applied by the British, and the projected removal of the descendants of the Great Mughal from their ancestral palace at Red Fort to the Qutb Minaar (near Delhi) also angered some people.\n\nThe final spark was provided by the rumoured use of tallow (from cows) and lard (pig fat) in the newly introduced Pattern 1853 Enfield rifle cartridges. Soldiers had to bite the cartridges with their teeth before loading them into their rifles, and the reported presence of cow and pig fat was religiously offensive to both Hindu and Muslim soldiers.\n\nMangal Pandey, a 29-year-old sepoy, was believed to be responsible for inspiring the Indian sepoys to rise against the British. Pandey revolted against his army regiment for protection of the cow, considered sacred by Hindus. In the first week of May 1857, he killed a higher officer in his regiment at Barrackpore for the introduction of the rule. He was captured and was sentenced to death when the British took back control of the regiment. On 10 May 1857, the sepoys at Meerut broke rank and turned on their commanding officers, killing some of them. They reached Delhi on 11 May, set the company's toll house on fire, and marched into the Red Fort, where they asked the Mughal emperor, Bahadur Shah II, to become their leader and reclaim his throne. The emperor was reluctant at first, but eventually agreed and was proclaimed \"Shehenshah-e-Hindustan\" by the rebels. The rebels also murdered much of the European, Eurasian, and Christian population of the city.\n\nRevolts broke out in other parts of Oudh and the North-Western Provinces as well, where civil rebellion followed the mutinies, leading to popular uprisings. The British were initially caught off-guard and were thus slow to react, but eventually responded with force. The lack of effective organisation among the rebels, coupled with the military superiority of the British, brought a rapid end to the rebellion. The British fought the main army of the rebels near Delhi, and after prolonged fighting and a siege, defeated them and retook the city on 20 September 1857. Subsequently, revolts in other centres were also crushed. The last significant battle was fought in Gwalior on 17 June 1858, during which Rani Lakshmibai was killed. Sporadic fighting and guerrilla warfare, led by Tatya Tope, continued until spring 1859, but most of the rebels were eventually subdued.\n\nThe Indian Rebellion of 1857 was a major turning point in the history of modern India. While affirming the military and political power of the British, it led to significant change in how India was to be controlled by them. Under the Government of India Act 1858, the Company was deprived of its involvement in ruling India, with its territory being transferred to the direct authority of the British government. At the apex of the new system was a Cabinet minister, the Secretary of State for India, who was to be formally advised by a statutory council; the Governor-General of India (Viceroy) was made responsible to him, while he in turn was responsible to the government. In a royal proclamation made to the people of India, Queen Victoria promised equal opportunity of public service under British law, and also pledged to respect the rights of the native princes. The British stopped the policy of seizing land from the princes, decreed religious tolerance and began to admit Indians into the civil service (albeit mainly as subordinates). However, they also increased the number of British soldiers in relation to native Indian ones, and only allowed British soldiers to handle artillery. Bahadur Shah was exiled to Rangoon, Burma, where he died in 1862.\n\nIn 1876, in a controversial move Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli acceded to the Queen's request and passed legislation to give Queen Victoria the additional title of Empress of India. Liberals in Britain objected that the title was foreign to British traditions.\n\nThe decades following the Rebellion were a period of growing political awareness, manifestation of Indian public opinion and emergence of Indian leadership at both national and provincial levels. Dadabhai Naoroji formed the East India Association in 1867 and Surendranath Banerjee founded the Indian National Association in 1876. Inspired by a suggestion made by A.O. Hume, a retired British civil servant, seventy-two Indian delegates met in Bombay in 1885 and founded the Indian National Congress. They were mostly members of the upwardly mobile and successful western-educated provincial elites, engaged in professions such as law, teaching and journalism. At its inception, the Congress had no well-defined ideology and commanded few of the resources essential to a political organisation. Instead, it functioned more as a debating society that met annually to express its loyalty to the British Raj and passed numerous resolutions on less controversial issues such as civil rights or opportunities in government (especially in the civil service). These resolutions were submitted to the Viceroy's government and occasionally to the British Parliament, but the Congress's early gains were slight. \"Despite its claim to represent all India, the Congress voiced the interests of urban elites; the number of participants from other social and economic backgrounds remained negligible.\" However, this period of history is still crucial because it represented the first political mobilisation of Indians, coming from all parts of the subcontinent and the first articulation of the idea of India as one nation, rather than a collection of independent princely states.\n\nThe influence of socio-religious groups such as \"Arya Samaj\" (started by Swami Dayanand Saraswati) and \"Brahmo Samaj\" (founded by Raja Ram Mohan Roy and others) became evident in pioneering reforms of Indian society. The work of men like Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna, Sri Aurobindo, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai, Subramanya Bharathy, Bankim Chandra Chatterjee, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Rabindranath Tagore and Dadabhai Naoroji, as well as women such as the Scots–Irish Sister Nivedita, spread the passion for rejuvenation and freedom. The rediscovery of India's indigenous history by several European and Indian scholars also fed into the rise of nationalism among Indians.\n\nBy 1900, although the Congress had emerged as an all-India political organisation, it did not have the support of most Indian Muslims. Attacks by Hindu reformers against religious conversion, cow slaughter, and the preservation of Urdu in Arabic script deepened their concerns of minority status and denial of rights if the Congress alone were to represent the people of India. Sir Syed Ahmed Khan launched a movement for Muslim regeneration that culminated in the founding in 1875 of the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College at Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh (renamed Aligarh Muslim University in 1920). Its objective was to educate wealthy students by emphasising the compatibility of Islam with modern western knowledge. The diversity among India's Muslims, however, made it impossible to bring about uniform cultural and intellectual regeneration.\n\nThe nationalistic sentiments among Congress members led to the movement to be represented in the bodies of government, to have a say in the legislation and administration of India. Congressmen saw themselves as loyalists, but wanted an active role in governing their own country, albeit as part of the Empire. This trend was personified by Dadabhai Naoroji, who went as far as contesting, successfully, an election to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, becoming its first Indian member.\n\nBal Gangadhar Tilak was the first Indian nationalist to embrace \"Swaraj\" as the destiny of the nation. Tilak deeply opposed the then British education system that ignored and defamed India's culture, history and values. He resented the denial of freedom of expression for nationalists, and the lack of any voice or role for ordinary Indians in the affairs of their nation. For these reasons, he considered Swaraj as the natural and only solution. His popular sentence \"Swaraj is my birthright, and I shall have it\" became the source of inspiration for Indians.\n\nIn 1907, the Congress was split into two factions: The \"radicals\", led by Tilak, advocated civil agitation and direct revolution to overthrow the British Empire and the abandonment of all things British. The \"moderates\", led by leaders like Dadabhai Naoroji and Gopal Krishna Gokhale, on the other hand wanted reform within the framework of British rule. Tilak was backed by rising public leaders like Bipin Chandra Pal and Lala Lajpat Rai, who held the same point of view. Under them, India's three great states – Maharashtra, Bengal and Punjab shaped the demand of the people and India's nationalism. Gokhale criticised Tilak for encouraging acts of violence and disorder. But the Congress of 1906 did not have public membership, and thus Tilak and his supporters were forced to leave the party.\n\nBut with Tilak's arrest, all hopes for an Indian offensive were stalled. The Congress lost credibility with the people. A Muslim deputation met with the Viceroy, Minto (1905–10), seeking concessions from the impending constitutional reforms, including special considerations in government service and electorates. The British recognised some of the Muslim League's petitions by increasing the number of elective offices reserved for Muslims in the Indian Councils Act 1909. The Muslim League insisted on its separateness from the Hindu-dominated Congress, as the voice of a \"nation within a nation\".\n\nThe Ghadar Party was formed overseas in 1913 to fight for the Independence of India with members coming from the United States and Canada, as well as Shanghai, Hong Kong, and Singapore. Members of the party aimed for Hindu, Sikh, and Muslim unity against the British.\n\nThe temperance movement in India became aligned with Indian nationalism under the direction of Mahatma Gandhi, who saw alcohol as a foreign importation to the culture of the subcontinent.\n\nIn July 1905, Lord Curzon, the Viceroy and Governor-General (1899–1905), ordered the partition of the province of Bengal supposedly for improvements in administrative efficiency in the huge and populous region. However, the Indians viewed the partition as an attempt by the British to disrupt the growing national movement in Bengal and divide the Hindus and Muslims of the region. The Bengali Hindu intelligentsia exerted considerable influence on local and national politics. The partition outraged Bengalis. Not only had the government failed to consult Indian public opinion, but the action appeared to reflect the British resolve to divide and rule. Widespread agitation ensued in the streets and in the press, and the Congress advocated boycotting British products under the banner of \"swadeshi\", or indigenous industries. A growing movement emerged, focussing on indigenous Indian industries, finance, and education, which saw the founding of National Council of Education, the birth of Indian financial institutions and banks, as well as an interest in Indian culture and achievements in science and literature. Hindus showed unity by tying Rakhi on each other's wrists and observing \"Arandhan\" (not cooking any food). During this time, Bengali Hindu nationalists like Sri Aurobindo, Bhupendranath Datta, and Bipin Chandra Pal began writing virulent newspaper articles challenging legitimacy of British rule in India in publications such as \"Jugantar\" and \"Sandhya\", and were charged with sedition. Brahmabhandav Upadhyay, a Hindu newspaper editor who helped Tagore establish his school at Shantiniketan, was imprisoned and the first to die in British custody in the twentieth-century struggle for self-rule. The movement also witnessed violent revolutionary movement for Indian independence, notable revolutionary being Khudiram Bose, who planted bombs near British government officials and police stations. Due to his activities against the British, he was arrested and hanged. At the time of his hanging, he was 18 years, 8 months 8 days old, making him one of the youngest revolutionaries in India.\n\nThe British newspaper, \"The Empire\", wrote:\n\nThe All-India Muslim League was founded by the All India Muhammadan Educational Conference at Dhaka (now Bangladesh), in 1906, in the context of the circumstances that were generated over the partition of Bengal in 1905. Being a political party to secure the interests of the Muslim diaspora in British India, the Muslim League played a decisive role behind the creation of Pakistan in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nIn 1916, Muhammad Ali Jinnah joined the Indian National Congress, which was the largest Indian political organisation. Like most of the Congress at the time, Jinnah did not favour outright self-rule, considering British influences on education, law, culture and industry as beneficial to India. Jinnah became a member of the sixty-member Imperial Legislative Council. The council had no real power or authority, and included a large number of un-elected pro-Raj loyalists and Europeans. Nevertheless, Jinnah was instrumental in the passing of the \"Child Marriages Restraint Act\", the legitimisation of the Muslim waqf (religious endowments) and was appointed to the Sandhurst committee, which helped establish the Indian Military Academy at Dehradun. During the First World War, Jinnah joined other Indian moderates in supporting the British war effort.\n\nThe First World War began with an unprecedented outpouring of support towards Britain from within the mainstream political leadership, contrary to initial British fears of an Indian revolt. India contributed massively to the British war effort by providing men and resources. About 1.3 million Indian soldiers and laborers served in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, while both the Indian government and the princes sent large supplies of food, money and ammunition. However, Bengal and Punjab remained hotbeds of anti colonial activities. Nationalism in Bengal, increasingly closely linked with the unrests in Punjab, was significant enough to nearly paralyze the regional administration, whilst failed conspiracies were made by revolutionaries to trigger nationalist revolt in India.\n\nNone of the revolutionary conspiracies had significant impact inside India. The prospect of subversive violence and its effect on the popular war effort drew support amongst Indian population for special measures against anti-colonial activities in the form of Defence of India Act 1915, and no major mutinies occurred. However, the war-time conspiracies did lead to profound fears of insurrection among British officials, preparing them to use extreme force to frighten the Indians into submission.\n\nIn the aftermath of the First World War, high casualty rates, soaring inflation compounded by heavy taxation, a widespread influenza epidemic and the disruption of trade during the war escalated human suffering in India.\n\nThe pre-war nationalist movement revived as moderate and extremist groups within the Congress submerged their differences in order to stand as a unified front.They argued their enormous services to the British Empire during the war demanded a reward, and demonstrated the Indian capacity for self-rule. In 1916, the Congress succeeded in forging the Lucknow Pact, a temporary alliance with the Muslim League over the issues of devolution of political power and the future of Islam in the region.\n\nThe British themselves adopted a \"carrot and stick\" approach in recognition of India's support during the war and in response to renewed nationalist demands. In August 1917, Edwin Montagu, the secretary of state for India, made the historic announcement in Parliament that the British policy for India was \"increasing association of Indians in every branch of the administration and the gradual development of self-governing institutions with a view to the progressive realization of responsible government in India as an integral part of the British Empire.\" The means of achieving the proposed measure were later enshrined in the Government of India Act, 1919, which introduced the principle of a dual mode of administration, or diarchy, in which both elected Indian legislators and appointed British officials shared power. The act also expanded the central and provincial legislatures and widened the franchise considerably. Diarchy set in motion certain real changes at the provincial level: a number of non-controversial or \"transferred\" portfolios, such as agriculture, local government, health, education, and public works, were handed over to Indians, while more sensitive matters such as finance, taxation, and maintaining law and order were retained by the provincial British administrators.\n\nGandhi had been a leader of the Indian nationalist movement in South Africa.He had also been a vocal opponent of basic discrimination and abusive labour treatment as well as suppressive police control such as the Rowlatt Acts. During these protests, Gandhi had perfected the concept of \"satyagraha\".In January 1914 (well before the First World War began) Gandhi was successful. The legislation against Indians was repealed and all Indian political prisoners were released by General Jan Smuts. Gandhi accomplished this through extensive use of non-violent protests, such as boycotting, protest marching, and fasting by him and his followers.\n\nGandhi returned to India on 9 January 1915, and initially entered the political fray not with calls for a nation-state, but in support of the unified commerce-oriented territory that the Congress Party had been asking for. Gandhi believed that the industrial development and educational development that the Europeans had brought with them were required to alleviate many of India's problems. Gopal Krishna Gokhale, a veteran Congressman and Indian leader, became Gandhi's mentor. Gandhi's ideas and strategies of non-violent civil disobedience initially appeared impractical to some Indians and Congressmen. In Gandhi's own words, \"civil disobedience is civil breach of immoral statutory enactments.\" It had to be carried out non-violently by withdrawing co-operation with the corrupt state. Gandhi had great respect for Lokmanya Tilak. His programmes were all inspired by Tilak's \"Chatusutri\" programme. It was at this point he met the prophet Ryan Chart, where he founded some of his most spiritual messages with his British colleague. \n\nThe positive impact of reform was seriously undermined in 1919 by the Rowlatt Act, named after the recommendations made the previous year to the Imperial Legislative Council by the Rowlatt Committee. The commission was set up to look into the war-time conspiracies by the nationalist organisations and recommend measures to deal with the problem in the post-war period. Rowlatt recommended the extension of the war-time powers of the Defence of India act into the post-war period. The war-time act had vested the Viceroy's government with extraordinary powers to quell sedition by silencing the press, detaining political activists without trial, and arresting any individuals suspected of sedition or treason without a warrant. It was increasingly reviled within India due to widespread and indiscriminate use. Many popular leaders, including Annie Beasant and Ali brothers had been detained. Rowlatt act was, therefore, passed in the face of universal opposition among the (non-official) Indian members in the Viceroy's council. The extension of the act drew widespread opposition and criticism. In protest, a nationwide cessation of work (\"hartal\") was called, marking the beginning of widespread, although not nationwide, popular discontent.\n\nThe agitation unleashed by the acts led to British attacks on demonstrators, culminating on 13 April 1919, in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre (also known as the Amritsar Massacre) in Amritsar, Punjab. The British military commander, Brigadier-General Reginald Dyer, blocked the main, and only entrance, and ordered his soldiers to fire into an unarmed and unsuspecting crowd of some 15,000 men, women and children. They had assembled peacefully at Jallianwala Bagh, a walled courtyard, but Dyer had wanted to execute the imposed ban on all meetings and proposed to teach all Indians a lesson the harsher way. A total of 1,651 rounds were fired, killing 379 people (as according to an official British commission; Indian officials' estimates ranged as high as 1,499 and wounding 1,137 in the massacre.) Dyer was forced to retire but was hailed as a hero in Britain, demonstrating to Indian nationalists that the Empire was beholden to public opinion in Britain, but not in India. The episode dissolved wartime hopes of home rule and goodwill and opened a rift that could not be bridged short of complete self-rule.\n\nFrom 1920 to 1922, Gandhi started the Non-Cooperation Movement. At the Kolkata session of the Congress in September 1920, Gandhi convinced other leaders of the need to start a non-co-operation movement in support of Khilafat as well as for dominion status. The first satyagraha movement urged the use of khadi and Indian material as alternatives to those shipped from Britain. It also urged people to boycott British educational institutions and law courts; resign from government employment; refuse to pay taxes; and forsake British titles and honours. Although this came too late to influence the framing of the new \"Government of India Act 1919\", the movement enjoyed widespread popular support, and the resulting unparalleled magnitude of disorder presented a serious challenge to foreign rule. However, Gandhi called off the movement because he was scared after Chauri Chaura incident, which saw the death of twenty-two policemen at the hands of an angry mob.\n\nMembership in the party was opened to anyone prepared to pay a token fee, and a hierarchy of committees was established and made responsible for discipline and control over a hitherto amorphous and diffuse movement. The party was transformed from an elite organisation to one of mass national appeal and participation.\n\nGandhi was sentenced in 1922 to six years in prison, but was released after serving two. On his release from prison, he set up the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, on the banks of river Sabarmati, established the newspaper \"Young India\", and inaugurated a series of reforms aimed at the socially disadvantaged within Hindu society — the rural poor, and the untouchables.\n\nThis era saw the emergence of new generation of Indians from within the Congress Party, including C. Rajagopalachari, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Subhas Chandra Bose and others- who would later on come to form the prominent voices of the Indian self-rule movement, whether keeping with Gandhian Values, or, as in the case of Bose's Indian National Army, diverging from it.\n\nThe Indian political spectrum was further broadened in the mid-1920s by the emergence of both moderate and militant parties, such as the Swaraj Party, Hindu Mahasabha, Communist Party of India and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Regional political organisations also continued to represent the interests of non-Brahmins in Madras, Mahars in Maharashtra, and Sikhs in Punjab. However, people like Mahakavi Subramanya Bharathi, Vanchinathan and Neelakanda Brahmachari played a major role from Tamil Nadu in both self-rule struggle and fighting for equality for all castes and communities.\n\nMany women participated in the movement, including Kasturba Gandhi (Gandhi's wife), Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Muthulaxmi Reddy, Aruna Asaf Ali, and many others.\n\nFollowing the rejection of the recommendations of the Simon Commission by Indians, an all-party conference was held at Mumbai in May 1928. This was meant to instill a sense of Liberation among people. The conference appointed a drafting committee under Motilal Nehru to draw up a constitution for India. The Kolkata session of the Indian National Congress asked the British government to accord dominion status to India by December 1929, or a countrywide civil disobedience movement would be launched. By 1929, however, in the midst of rising political discontent and increasingly violent regional movements, the call for complete sovereignty and end of British rule began to find increasing grounds within the Public. Under the presidency of Jawaharlal at his historic Lahore session in December 1929, the Indian National Congress adopted the idea of complete self-rule and end of British rule. It authorised the Working Committee to launch a civil disobedience movement throughout the country. It was decided that 26 January 1930 should be observed all over India as the \"Purna Swaraj\" (complete self-rule) Day. Many Indian political parties and Indian revolutionaries of a wide spectrum united to observe the day with honour and pride.\n\nIn March 1931, the Gandhi-Irwin Pact was signed, and the government agreed to set all political prisoners free (Although, some of the great revolutionaries were not set free and the death sentence for Bhagat Singh and his two comrades was not taken back which further intensified the agitation against Congress not only outside it but within the Congress itself).\nFor the next few years, the Congress and the government were locked in conflict and negotiations until what became the Government of India Act 1935 could be hammered out. By then, the rift between the Congress and the Muslim League had become unbridgeable as each pointed the finger at the other acrimoniously. The Muslim League disputed the claim of the Congress to represent all people of India, while the Congress disputed the Muslim League's claim to voice the aspirations of all Muslims.\n\nThe Civil Disobedience Movement indicated a new part in the process of the Indian self-rule struggle. As a whole, it became a failure by itself, but it brought the Indian population together, under the Indian National Congress's leadership. The movement made the Indian people strive even more towards self-rule. The movement allowed the Indian community to revive their inner confidence and strength against the British Government. In addition, the movement weakened the authority of the British and aided in the end of the British Empire in India. Overall, the civil disobedience Movement was an essential achievement in the history of Indian self-rule.\n\nThe Government of India Act 1935, the voluminous and final constitutional effort at governing British India, articulated three major goals: establishing a loose federal structure, achieving provincial autonomy, and safeguarding minority interests through separate electorates. The federal provisions, intended to unite princely states and British India at the centre, were not implemented because of ambiguities in safeguarding the existing privileges of princes. In February 1937, however, provincial autonomy became a reality when elections were held; the Congress emerged as the dominant party with a clear majority in five provinces and held an upper hand in two, while the Muslim League performed poorly.\n\nIn 1939, the Viceroy Linlithgow declared India's entrance into the Second World War without consulting provincial governments. In protest, the Congress asked all of its elected representatives to resign from the government. Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the president of the Muslim League, persuaded participants at the annual Muslim League session at Lahore in 1940 to adopt what later came to be known as the Lahore Resolution, demanding the division of India into two separate sovereign states, one Muslim, the other Hindu; sometimes referred to as Two Nation Theory. Although the idea of Pakistan had been introduced as early as 1930, very few had responded to it. However, the volatile political climate and hostilities between the Hindus and Muslims transformed the idea of Pakistan into a stronger demand.\n\nApart from a few stray incidents, armed rebellions against the British rulers did not occur before the beginning of the 20th century. The Indian revolutionary underground began gathering momentum through the first decade of the 20th century, with groups arising in Bengal, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, and the Madras Presidency including what is now called South India. More groups were scattered around India. Particularly notable movements arose in Bengal, especially around the Partition of Bengal in 1905, and in Punjab after 1907. In the former case, it was the educated, intelligent and\ndedicated youth of the urban middle class \"Bhadralok\" community that came to form the \"classic\" Indian revolutionary, while the latter had an immense support base in the rural and Military society of the Punjab. In Bengal, the \"Anushilan Samiti\" emerged from conglomerations of local youth groups and gyms (\"Akhra\") in Bengal in 1902, forming two prominent and somewhat independent arms in East and West Bengal identified as \"Dhaka Anushilan Samiti\" in Dhaka (modern day Bangladesh), and the \"Jugantar\" group (centred at Calcutta) respectively. Led by nationalists of the likes of Aurobindo Ghosh and his brother Barindra Ghosh, the \"Samiti\" was influenced by philosophies as diverse as Hindu \"Shakta\" philosophy propounded by Bengali literaetuer Bankim and Vivekananda, Italian Nationalism, and Pan-Asianism of Kakuzo Okakura. The \"Samiti\" was involved in a number of noted incidences of revolutionary terrorism against British interests and administration in India within the decade of its founding, including early attempts to assassinate Raj officials whilst led by Ghosh brothers. In the meantime, in Maharashtra and Punjab arose similarly militant nationalist feelings. The District Magistrate of Nasik, A.M.T. Jackson was shot dead by Anant Kanhere in December 1909, followed by the death of Robert D'Escourt Ashe at the hands of Vanchi Iyer. Indian nationalism made headway through Indian societies as far as Paris and London. In London India House under the patronage of Shyamji Krishna Verma came under increasing scrutiny for championing and justifying violence in the cause of Indian nationalism, which found in Indian students in Britain and from Indian expatriates in Paris Indian Society avid followers. By 1907, through Indian nationalist Madame Bhikaji Rustom Cama's links to Russian revolutionary Nicholas Safranski, Indian groups including Bengal revolutionaries as well as India House under V.D.Savarkar were able to obtain manuals for manufacturing bombs. India House was also a source of arms and seditious literature that was rapidly distributed in India. In addition to \"The Indian Sociologist\", pamphlets like \"Bande Mataram\" and \"Oh Martyrs!\" by Savarkar extolled revolutionary violence. Direct influences and incitement from India House were noted in several incidents of political violence, including assassinations, in India at the time. One of the two charges against Savarkar during his trial in Bombay was for abetting the murder of the District Magistrate of Nasik, A.M.T. Jackson, by Anant Kanhere in December 1909. The arms used were directly traced through an Italian courier to India House. Ex-India House residents M.P.T. Acharya and V.V.S. Aiyar were noted in the Rowlatt report to have aided and influenced political assassinations, including the murder of Robert D'Escourt Ashe. The Paris-Safranski link was strongly suggested by French police to be involved in a 1907 attempt in Bengal to derail the train carrying the Lieutenant-Governor Sir Andrew Fraser. The activities of nationalists abroad is believed to have shaken the loyalty of a number of native regiments of the British Indian Army. The assassination of William Hutt Curzon Wyllie in the hands of Madanlal Dhingra was highly publcised and saw increasing surveillance and suppression of Indian nationalism. These were followed by the 1912 attempt on the life of Viceroy of India. Following this, the nucleus of networks formed in India House, the Anushilan Samiti, nationlalists in Punjab, and the nationalism that arose among Indian expatriates and labourers in North America, a different movement began to emerge in the North American Ghadar Party, culminating in the Sedetious conspiracy of World War I led by Rash Behari Bose and Lala Hardayal.\n\nHowever, the emergence of the Gandhian movement slowly began to absorb the different revolutionary groups. The Bengal \"Samiti\" moved away from its philosophy of violence in the 1920s, when a number of its members identified closely with the Congress and Gandhian non-violent movement. Revolutionary nationalist violence saw a resurgence after the collapse of Gandhian Noncooperation movement in 1922. In Bengal, this saw reorganisation of groups linked to the \"Samiti\" under the leadership of Surya Sen and Hem Chandra Kanungo. A spate of violence led up to enactment of the Bengal Criminal Law Amendment in the early 1920s, which recalled the powers of incarceration and detention of the Defence of India Act. In north India, remnants of Punjab and Bengalee revolutionary organisations reorganised, notably under Sachindranath Sanyal, founding the Hindustan Republican Association with Chandrashekhar Azad in north India. The HSRA had strong influences from leftist ideologies. Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA) was formed under the leadership of Chandrasekhar Azad. Kakori train robbery was done largely by the members of HSRA. A number of Congress leaders from Bengal, especially Subhash Chandra Bose, were accused by the British Government of having links with and allowing patronage to the revolutionary organisations during this time. The violence and radical philosophy revived in the 1930s, when revolutionaries of the \"Samiti\" and the HSRA were involved in was involved in the Chittagong armoury raid and the Kakori conspiracy and other attempts against the administration in British India and Raj officials. Bhagat Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt threw a bomb inside the Central Legislative Assembly on 8 April 1929 protesting against the passage of the Public Safety Bill and the Trade Disputes Bill while raising slogans of \"Inquilab Zindabad\", though no one was killed or injured in the bomb incident. Bhagat Singh surrendered after the bombing incident and a trial was conducted. Sukhdev and Rajguru were also arrested by police during search operations after the bombing incident. Following the trial (Central Assembly Bomb Case), Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were hanged in 1931. Allama Mashriqi founded Khaksar Tehreek in order to direct particularly the Muslims towards the self-rule movement. Some of its members left for the Indian National Congress then led by Subhas Chandra Bose, while others identified more closely with Communism. The \"Jugantar\" branch formally dissolved in 1938. On 13 March 1940, Udham Singh shot Michael O'Dwyer(the last political murder outside India), generally held responsible for the Amritsar Massacre, in London. However, the revolutionary movement gradually disseminated into the Gandhian movement. As the political scenario changed in the late 1930s — with the mainstream leaders considering several options offered by the British and with religious politics coming into play — revolutionary activities gradually declined. Many past revolutionaries joined mainstream politics by joining Congress and other parties, especially communist ones, while many of the activists were kept under hold in different jails across the country.\n\nWithin a short time of its inception, these organisations became the focus of an extensive police and intelligence operations. Operations against \"Anushilan Samiti\" saw founding of the Special branch of Calcutta Police. The intelligence operations against India House saw the founding of the Indian Political Intelligence Office which later grew to be the Intelligence bureau in independent India. Heading the intelligence and missions against Ghadarite movement and India revolutionaries was the MI5(g) section, and at one point invokved the Pinkerton's detective agency. Notable officers who led the police and intelligence operations against Indian revolutionaries, or were involved in it, at various time included John Arnold Wallinger, Sir Robert Nathan, Sir Harold Stuart, Vernon Kell, Sir Charles Stevenson-Moore and Sir Charles Tegart, as well as W. Somerset Maugham. The threat posed by the activities of the \"Samiti\" in Bengal during World War I, along with the threat of a Ghadarite uprising in Punjab, saw the passage of Defence of India Act 1915. These measures saw the arrest, internment, transportations and execution of a number of revolutionaries linked to the organisation, and was successful in crushing the East Bengal Branch. In the aftermath of the war, the Rowlatt committee recommended extending the Defence of India Act (as the Rowlatt act) to thwart any possible revival of the \"Samiti\" in Bengal and the Ghadarite movement in Punjab. In the 1920s, Alluri Sitarama Raju led the ill-fated Rampa Rebellion of 1922–24, during which a band of tribal leaders and other sympathisers fought against the British Raj. He was referred to as \"Manyam Veerudu\" (\"Hero of the Jungles\") by the local people. After the passing of the 1882 Madras Forest Act, its restrictions on the free movement of tribal peoples in the forest prevented them from engaging in their traditional \"podu\" (Slash-and-burn) agricultural system, which involved shifting cultivation. Raju led a protest movement in the border areas of the Godavari Agency in Madras Presidency (present-day Andhra Pradesh). Inspired by the patriotic zeal of revolutionaries in Bengal, Raju raided police stations in and around Chintapalle, Rampachodavaram, Dammanapalli, Krishna-devi-peta, Rajavommangi, Addateegala, Narsipatnam and Annavaram. Raju and his followers stole guns and ammunition and killed several British army officers, including Scott Coward near Dammanapalli. The British campaign lasted for nearly a year from December 1922. Raju was eventually trapped by the British in the forests of Chintapalli then tied to a tree and shot dead with a rifle.\n\nGovernment of India through the Ministry of Home Affairs has later notified 38 movements/struggles across Indian territories as the ones that led to the country gaining self-rule and ending the British Raj. The Kallara-Pangode Struggle is one of these 39 agitations.\n\nIn 1937, provincial elections were held and the Congress came to power in seven of the eleven provinces. This was a strong indicator of the Indian people's support for complete self-rule.\n\nWhen the Second World War started, Viceroy Linlithgow unilaterally declared India a belligerent on the side of Britain, without consulting the elected Indian representatives. In opposition to Linlithgow's action, the entire Congress leadership resigned from the provincial and local governments. The Muslims and Sikhs, by contrast, strongly supported the war effort and gained enormous stature in London. Defying Congress, millions of Indians supported the war effort, and indeed the British Indian Army became the largest volunteer force, numbering 2,500,000 men during the war.\n\nEspecially during the Battle of Britain in 1940, Gandhi resisted calls for massive civil disobedience movements that came from within as well as outside his party, stating he did not seek India's self-rule out of the ashes of a destroyed Britain. In 1942, the Congress launched the Quit India movement. There was some violence but the Raj cracked down and arrested tens of thousands of Congress leaders, including all the main national and provincial figures. They were not released until the end of the war was in sight in 1945.\n\nThe self-rule movement saw the rise of three movements: The first of these, the Kakori conspiracy (9 August 1925) was led by Indian youth under the leadership of Pandit Ram Prasad Bismil; second was the Azad Hind movement led by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose which saw its inception early in the war and joined Germany and Japan to fight Britain; the third one saw its inception in August 1942, was led by Lal Bahadur Shastri and reflected the common man resulting the failure of the Cripps' mission to reach a consensus with the Indian political leadership over the transfer of power after the war.\n\nThe entry of India into the war was strongly opposed by Subhas Chandra Bose, who had been elected President of the Congress in 1938 and 1939, but later resigned due to differences in opinion with Gandhi. After resignation he formed his own wing separated from the mainstream congress leadership known as Forward bloc which was the centre of ex-congressmen with socialist views; however he remained emotionally attached with him for the remainder of his life. Bose then founded the All India Forward Bloc. In 1940, a year after war broke out, the British had put Bose under house arrest in Calcutta. However, he escaped and made his way through Afghanistan to Nazi Germany to seek Hitler and Mussolini's help for raising an army to fight the British. The Free India Legion comprising Erwin Rommel's Indian POWs was formed. However, in light of Germany's changing fortunes, a German land invasion of India became untenable and Hitler advised Bose to go to Japan and arranged for a submarine. Bose was ferried to Japanese Southeast Asia, where he formed the Azad Hind Government, a Provisional Free Indian Government in exile, and reorganised the Indian National Army composed of Indian POWs and volunteering Indian expatriates in South-East Asia, with the help of the Japanese. Its aim was to reach India as a fighting force that would build on public resentment to inspire revolts among Indian soldiers to defeat the British \"raj\".\nThe INA was to see action against the allies, including the British Indian Army, in the forests of Arakan, Burma and in Assam, laying siege on Imphal and Kohima with the Japanese 15th Army. During the war, the Andaman and Nicobar islands were captured by the Japanese and handed over by them to the INA.\n\nThe INA failed owing to disrupted logistics, poor supplies from the Japanese, and lack of training. It surrendered unconditionally to the British in Singapore in 1945. Bose, however, attempted to escape to Japanese-held Manchuria in an attempt to escape to the Soviet Union, marking the end of the entire Azad Hind movement.\n\nThe Quit India Movement \"(Bharat Chhodo Andolan)\" or the \"August Movement\" was a civil disobedience movement in India which commenced on 8 August 1942 in response to Gandhi's call for immediate self-rule by Indians and against sending Indians to World War II. He asked all teachers to leave their schools, and other Indians to leave their respective jobs and take part in this movement. Due to Gandhi's political influence, his request was followed by a massive proportion of the population. In addition, the INC led the Quit India Movement to demand the British to leave India and to transfer the political power to INC.\n\nDuring the movement, Gandhi and his followers continued to use non-violence against British rule. This movement was where Gandhi gave his famous message, \"Do or Die!\", and this message spread towards the Indian community. In addition, this movement was addressed directly to women as \"disciplined soldiers of Indian freedom\" and they had to keep the war for independence to go on (against British rule).\nAt the outbreak of war, the Congress Party had during the Wardha meeting of the working-committee in September 1939, passed a resolution conditionally supporting the fight against fascism, but were rebuffed when they asked for self-rule in return. In March 1942, faced with an increasingly dissatisfied sub-continent only reluctantly participating in the war, and deteriorations in the war situation in Europe and South East Asia, and with growing dissatisfactions among Indian troops- especially in Europe- and among the civilian population in the sub-continent, the British government sent a delegation to India under Stafford Cripps, in what came to be known as the Cripps' Mission. The purpose of the mission was to negotiate with the Indian National Congress a deal to obtain total co-operation during the war, in return of progressive devolution and distribution of power from the crown and the Viceroy to elected Indian legislature. However, the talks failed, having failed to address the key demand of a timeframe towards self-government, and of definition of the powers to be relinquished, essentially portraying an offer of limited dominion-status that was wholly unacceptable to the Indian movement. To force the British Raj to meet its demands and to obtain definitive word on total self-rule, the Congress took the decision to launch the Quit India Movement.\n\nThe aim of the movement was to force the British Government to the negotiating table by holding the Allied war effort hostage. The call for determined but passive resistance that signified the certitude that Gandhi foresaw for the movement is best described by his call to \"Do or Die\", issued on 8 August at the Gowalia Tank Maidan in Bombay, since renamed \"August Kranti Maidan\" (August Revolution Ground). However, almost the entire Congress leadership, and not merely at the national level, was put into confinement less than 24 hours after Gandhi's speech, and the greater number of the Congress khiland were to spend the rest of the war in jail.\n\nOn 8 August 1942, the Quit India resolution was passed at the Mumbai session of the All India Congress Committee (AICC). The draft proposed that if the British did not accede to the demands, a massive Civil Disobedience would be launched. However, it was an extremely controversial decision. At Gowalia Tank, Mumbai, Gandhi urged Indians to follow a non-violent civil disobedience. Gandhi told the masses to act as citizens of a sovereign nation and not to follow the orders of the British. The British, already alarmed by the advance of the Japanese army to the India–Burma border, responded the next day by imprisoning Gandhi at the Aga Khan Palace in Pune. The Congress Party's Working Committee, or national leadership was arrested all together and imprisoned at the Ahmednagar Fort. They also banned the party altogether. All the major leaders of the INC were arrested and detained. As the masses were leaderless the protest took a violent turn. Large-scale protests and demonstrations were held all over the country. Workers remained absent en masse and strikes were called. The movement also saw widespread acts of sabotage, Indian under-ground organisation carried out bomb attacks on allied supply convoys, government buildings were set on fire, electricity lines were disconnected and transport and communication lines were severed. The disruptions were under control in a few weeks and had little impact on the war effort. The movement soon became a leaderless act of defiance, with a number of acts that deviated from Gandhi's principle of non-violence. In large parts of the country, the local underground organisations took over the movement. However, by 1943, \"Quit India\" had petered out.\n\nAll the other major parties rejected the Quit India plan, and most cooperated closely with the British, as did the princely states, the civil service and the police. The Muslim League supported the Raj and grew rapidly in membership, and in influence with the British.\n\nThere was opposition to the Quit India Movement from several political quarters who were fighting for Indian self-rule. Hindu nationalist parties like the Hindu Mahasabha openly opposed the call and boycotted the Quit India Movement. Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, the president of the Hindu Mahasabha at that time, even went to the extent of writing a letter titled \"Stick to your Posts\", in which he instructed Hindu Sabhaites who happened to be \"members of municipalities, local bodies, legislatures or those serving in the army...to stick to their posts\" across the country, and not to join the Quit India Movement at any cost.\n\nThe other Hindu nationalist organisation, and Mahasabha affiliate Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) had a tradition of keeping aloof from the anti-British Indian self-rule movement since its founding by K.B. Hedgewar in 1925. In 1942, the RSS, under M.S. Golwalkar completely abstained from joining in the Quit India Movement as well. The Bombay government (British) appreciated the RSS as such, by noting that,\nThe British Government stated that the RSS was not at all supporting any civil disobedience against them, and as such their other political activities(even if objectionable) can be overlooked.\nFurther, the British Government also asserted that at Sangh meetings organised during the times of anti-British movements started and fought by the Indian National Congress,\n\nThe RSS head (sarsanghchalak) during that time, M.S. Golwalkar later openly admitted to the fact that the RSS did not participate in the Quit India Movement. However, such an attitude during the Indian independence movement also led to the Sangh being viewed with distrust and anger, both by the general Indian public, as well as certain members of the organisation itself. In Golwalkar's own words,\nIn 1942 also, there was a strong sentiment in the hearts of many. At that time too, the routine work of the Sangh continued. Sangh decided not to do anything directly. ‘Sangh is the organisation of inactive people, their talks have no substance’ was the opinion uttered not only by outsiders but also our own swayamsevaks.\n\nOverall, the Quit India Movement turned out to be not very successful and only lasted until 1943. It drew away from Gandhi's tactic of non-violence; it eventually became a rebellious act without any real leader.\n\nAfter two Japanese attacks on Christmas Island in late February and early March 1942, relations between the British officers and their Indian troops broke down. On the night of 10 March, the Indian troops assisted by Sikh policemen mutinied, killing five British soldiers and imprisoning the remaining 21 Europeans on the island. Later on 31 March, a Japanese fleet arrived at the island and the Indians surrendered.\n\nThe Royal Indian Navy Mutiny encompasses a total strike and subsequent mutiny by Indian sailors of the Royal Indian revolt on board ship and shore establishments at Bombay (Mumbai) harbour on 18 February 1946. From the initial flashpoint in Bombay, the mutiny spread and found support throughout British India, from Karachi to Calcutta and ultimately came to involve 78 ships, 20 shore establishments and 20,000 sailors.\n\nThe agitations, mass strikes, demonstrations and consequently support for the mutineers, therefore continued several days even after the mutiny had been called off. Along with this, the assessment may be made that it described in crystal clear terms to the government that the British Indian Armed forces could no longer be universally relied upon for support in crisis, and even more it was more likely itself to be the source of the sparks that would ignite trouble in a country fast slipping out of the scenario of political settlement.\n\nOn 3 June 1947, Viscount Louis Mountbatten, the last British Governor-General of India, announced the partitioning of British India into India and Pakistan. With the speedy passage through the British Parliament of the Indian Independence Act 1947, at 11:57 on 14 August 1947 Pakistan was declared a separate nation, and at 12:02, just after\nmidnight, on 15 August 1947, India also became a sovereign and democratic nation. Eventually, 15 August became the Independence Day for India, due to the ending of British rule over India. On that 15 August, both Pakistan and India had the right to remain in or remove themselves from the British Commonwealth. In 1949, India decided to remain in the commonwealth.\n\nViolent clashes between Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims followed. Prime Minister Nehru and deputy prime minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel invited Mountbatten to continue as Governor General of India. He was replaced in June 1948 by Chakravarti Rajagopalachari. Patel took on the responsibility of bringing into the Indian Union 565 princely states, steering efforts by his \"iron fist in a velvet glove\" policies, exemplified by the use of military force to integrate Junagadh and Hyderabad State into India (Operation Polo). On the other hand, Nehru kept the issue of Kashmir in his hands.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly, headed by the prominent lawyer, reformer and Dalit leader, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was tasked with creating the constitution of free India. The Constituent Assembly completed the work of drafting the constitution on 26 November 1949; on 26 January 1950, the Republic of India was officially proclaimed. The Constituent Assembly elected Dr. Rajendra Prasad as the first President of India, taking over from Governor General Rajgopalachari. Subsequently, the French ceded Chandernagore in 1951, and Pondichéry and its remaining Indian colonies in 1954. India invaded and annexed Goa and Portugal's other Indian enclaves in 1961, and Sikkim voted to join the Indian Union in 1975.\n\nFollowing self-rule in 1947, India remained in the Commonwealth of Nations, and relations between the UK and India have been friendly. There are many areas in which the two countries seek stronger ties for mutual benefit, and there are also strong cultural and social ties between the two nations. The UK has an ethnic Indian population of over 1.6 million. In 2010, Prime Minister David Cameron described Indian – British relations as a \"New Special Relationship\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31153018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31153018", "title": "Inequality in Bolivia", "text": "Inequality in Bolivia\n\nThough resource rich, Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in Latin America. In the 1980s the tin market collapsed, the currency dived, and inflation soared. Austerity measures restored some confidence, but at the cost of widening inequality. This was exacerbated when, at the behest of the US, coca growing, a prime source of income for the poor, was shut down. There are also tensions over natural gas deposits, perhaps Bolivia's last remaining resource. And while GDP and GNI have both grown significantly since 2000, severe disparities exist both regionally and ethnically. UNICEF reports that women and children are the most vulnerable group. In 2002, the percentage of the population living below the poverty line was 82% in rural areas and 54% in urban areas.The departments with the most poverty are Potosi, Chuquisaca and Pando, while Santa Cruz and Tarija have the least.\n\nGini coefficient data indicates that income inequality in Bolivia has increased from 1990 to 2014 (from 42 to 48.4).\n\nBolivia is one of the most culturally diverse societies in Latin America, with approximately 35 different ethnic groups. Official figures from the Bolivian \nPopulation Census 2001 estimates that approximately 62% of the total population are indigenous in 2001.\n\nHowever, this majority of the population remain highly marginalized in economic terms and continue to live in extreme poverty. In Bolivia, mean income per capita in indigenous households was about 300 Bolivian Bolivianos per month in 2001 compared with 480 Bolivian Bolivianos for non-indigenous households. This gap can partly be explained by the fact that the largest source of income among the non-indigenous is non-agricultural wages, while the most important source of income for indigenous families, is agricultural self-employment which tend to be lower on average. By factoring out the difference in income due to types of employment, indigenous families still receive lower average incomes compared to non-indigenous families even within each category of employment. It should also be noted that the differences in income might also be due to differences in worker characteristics. However, neither labour market experience nor female participation seems to drive the differences in incomes. Education has appeared to have the biggest correlation with the disparity in income.\n\nThe main social indicators by the (such as illiteracy rate, mother and child mortality; primary and secondary enrolment rates) also indicate that indigenous peoples have significantly less access to social services than non-indigenous peoples. While non-indigenous people (age 15 and older) completed on average 9.6 years of education, indigenous peoples only completed 5.9 years.\n\nIn spite of the significant progress Bolivia has made in enhancing access to education in terms of overall school enrolment rates in the last decade, a high drop-out rate, especially among indigenous children is responsible for a persistent education gap between the indigenous and non-indigenous, with 42.4% of indigenous students dropping out before completing primary school compared to only 17.6% of non-indigenous students.\n"}
{"id": "47650049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47650049", "title": "Javed Afridi", "text": "Javed Afridi\n\nMuhammad Javed Afridi (Pashto/Urdu: ; born 1985) is a Pakistani business executive and entrepreneur best known as the CEO of Haier Pakistan. Afridi is also owner of the cricket franchise Peshawar Zalmi in Pakistan Super League and Benoni Zalmi in the T20 Global League of South Africa.\n\nHaier Pakistan has sponsored many cricket tournaments under his supervision including Haier Super 8 T20 Cup and Pakistan Super League. Afridi has also owned a cricket franchise Peshawar Zalmi for for a ten-year period. In an interview he said: “Peshawar and KP are close to my heart, and I want to develop the infrastructure around the game in my homeland.”\n\n\nhttp://benonicitytimes.co.za/298234/benoni-one-of-the-t20-eight/\n"}
{"id": "16082513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16082513", "title": "Killer's Paradise", "text": "Killer's Paradise\n\nKiller's Paradise is a 2007 documentary exploring the high murder rate of women that has persisted unsolved in Guatemala since the end of the Guatemalan Civil War. The film is a co-production of the National Film Board of Canada and the BBC and was directed by Toronto-based journalist and filmmaker Giselle Portenier. It premiered on 8 March 2007 in Toronto and has been broadcast on multiple channels around the world, including in the United States.\n\nMore than 2,200 women were murdered in Guatemala between 2001 and 2008, and countless more raped, tortured, and mutilated. This film displays this epidemic by examining the cases of several murders that occur during and just prior to filming. In particular, the filmmakers follow the family of Claudina Velásquez, a 19-year-old student who was murdered one night after a party with friends. When the case stalls, Claudina's father, accompanied by a camera crew, makes several appearances at the offices of homicide detectives. Initially, Claudina is dismissed as a prostitute, due to the sandals and navel ring she was found wearing. Claudina's father pressures investigators to actively pursue the case, but is repeatedly told that the case has been passed from one investigator to another.\n\nThis case and others in the film, like that of an unidentified woman found naked in a dry riverbed, showcase the pervasiveness of the murder of women in Guatemala, and point to numerous reasons that these murders are almost never solved. Witnesses and the family members of victims interviewed in the film speak on camera reluctantly and only as a last resort, and explain that they fear retaliation from the murderers, who are often young gang members or disaffected soldiers, many jobless following the end of major military conflict in Guatemala. The film also displays the unwillingness of authorities to investigate the murders, owing to corruption and fear of retaliation from perpetrators. A pervasive societal machismo and misogyny are also revealed, as when police deem victims wearing makeup, fingernail polish, or supposedly revealing clothing to be prostitutes and decline to investigate their murders. While the film focuses primarily on young women who are abducted off the streets, it also mentions the large number of women who are beaten or murdered by husbands and boyfriends, cases which are rarely reported or prosecuted. Additionally, a law persists whereby a convicted rapist can be acquitted if his victim agrees to marry him, meaning that many victims of \"solved\" rape cases are coerced into abusive marriages for fear of their lives.\n\nIn spite of the continued increase in the murder rate of women, the film is not entirely without hope. The filmmakers are granted an interview with then President Óscar Berger, who dismisses their criticism as merely \"pessimistic,\" and says he is optimistic that new programs, including a national overhaul of the police force and foreign training for homicide investigators, will improve the situation. Director Portenier's criticism of governmental incompetence is met with frustration and disdain, and Berger leaves the interview abruptly, thanking Portenier and grimacing through his anger. One scene shows a large protest march in the capital, Guatemala City, where citizens cordon off the Ministry of Justice with yellow police tape, declaring it a \"crime scene of inaction.\" Another thread of the film follows the sister of one murder victim as she appeals to the United States Congress, eventually gaining an audience in a committee in order to bring international attention to the plight of women in Guatemala.\n\n"}
{"id": "38517281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38517281", "title": "Lahanan language", "text": "Lahanan language\n\nLahanan (Lanun) is a Kajang language of Sarawak.\n"}
{"id": "17987492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17987492", "title": "List of controversial video games", "text": "List of controversial video games\n\nThis is a list of video games considered controversial. Some of the video games on this list have been banned or regionally censored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57190089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57190089", "title": "Louis van Schoor", "text": "Louis van Schoor\n\nSybrand Jacobus Lodewikus \"Louis\" van Schoor is a South African serial killer, former policeman and security guard who committed murders between 1986 and 1989. He was convicted of seven murders and two assassinations. However, he told a reporter that he has killed more than 100 people.\n\nVan Schoor was hired as a security guard after he had served as a police officer.\n\nHe would react to the silent alarm when it was triggered in businesses he monitored and to dispatch of the intruders with his 9mm pistol immediately.\n\nMost of his victims were black men and so suspicions were that his murders were racially motivated, but van Schoor denied that and declared the deaths of the burglars by saying that he had \"just done his job\".\n\nVan Schoor was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for seven murders and two assassinations. While serving his sentence, according to the statements of a prison employee, he is said to have behaved like an \"exemplary prisoner\" and to have demonstrated leadership qualities.\n\nAfter serving twelve years in prison, Van Schoor was released on parole.\n"}
{"id": "2015852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015852", "title": "Lule Sami language", "text": "Lule Sami language\n\nLule Saami language \"(julevsámegiella)\" is a Uralic, Saami language spoken in Lule Lappmark, i.e. around the Lule River, Sweden and in the northern parts of Nordland county in Norway, especially Tysfjord municipality, where Lule Saami is an official language. It is written in the Latin script, having an official alphabet.\n\nWith 1,500 to 2,000 speakers it is the second largest of all Saami languages. It is reported that the number of native speakers is in sharp decline among the younger generations. The language has, however, been standardised in 1983 and elaborately cultivated ever since.\n\nSome analyses of Lule Saami phonology may include preaspirated stops and affricates (, , , , ) and pre-stopped or pre-glottalised nasals (voiceless , , , and voiced , , , ). However, these can be treated as clusters for the purpose of phonology, since they are clearly composed of two segments and only the first of these lengthens in quantity 3. The terms \"preaspirated\" and \"pre-stopped\" will be used in this article to describe these combinations for convenience.\n\n\nLule Saami possesses the following vowels:\n\n\nConsonants, including clusters, that occur after a stressed syllable can occur in multiple distinctive length types, or quantities. These are conventionally labelled quantity 1, 2 and 3 or Q1, Q2 and Q3 for short. The consonants of a word alternate in a process known as consonant gradation, where consonants appear in different quantities depending on the specific grammatical form. Normally, one of the possibilities is named the \"strong grade\", while the other is named \"weak grade\". The consonants of a weak grade are normally quantity 1 or 2, while the consonants of a strong grade are normally quantity 2 or 3.\n\n\nThroughout this article and related articles, consonants that are part of different syllables are written with two consonant letters in IPA, while the lengthening of consonants in quantity 3 is indicated with an IPA length mark ().\n\nNot all consonants can occur in every quantity type. The following limitations exist:\n\nWhen a consonant can occur in all three quantities, quantity 3 is termed \"overlong\".\n\nUmlaut is a process whereby a diphthong in a stressed syllable changes depending on the vowel in the next syllable.\n\nThe first type of umlaut, causes an alternation between and in words whose stems end with unstressed . For such words, these two diphthongs can be considered variants of each other, while in words whose stems end with another vowel, these vowels remain distinct. The following table shows the different patterns that occur with different following vowels:\n\nThe second type of umlaut, called \"diphthong simplification\" or \"monophthongization\", is similar to its Northern Saami counterpart, but works differently. The diphthongs and become and respectively, if:\nThe diphthongs and are unaffected. The reverse process also occurs, turning the long vowels back into diphthongs if the consonant becomes quantity 3 or the vowel in the next syllable becomes long.\n\nThe third type of umlaut, progressive umlaut, works in the other direction. It causes the \"unstressed\" vowels and to be rounded to and respectively, if the preceding \"stressed\" vowel is short .\n\nIf a stressed syllable contains a short vowel followed by a single (quantity 1) consonant, then a short vowel in the following syllable is lengthened.\n\nSammallahti divides Lule Saami dialects as follows:\n\n\nFeatures of the northern dialects of Lule Saami are:\n\nFeatures of the southern dialects of Lule Saami are:\n\nThe orthography used for Lule Saami is written using an extended form of the Latin script.\n\nTraditionally, the character n-acute (Ń/ń) has been used to represent the sound, found, for example, in the English word \"song\". In place of n-acute (available in Unicode and mechanical type writers, but not in Latin-1 or traditional Nordic keyboards), many have used ñ or even ng. In modern orthography, such as in the official publications of the Swedish government and the recently published translation of the New Testament, it is usually replaced with ŋ, in accordance with the orthography of many other Saami languages.\n\nLule Saami has seven cases:\n\nLike the other Uralic languages, the nominative singular is unmarked and indicates the subject of a predicate.\nThe nominative plural is also unmarked and is always formally the same as the genitive singular.\n\nThe \"genitive\" singular is unmarked and looks the same as the nominative plural. The genitive plural is marked by an \"-j\". The genitive is used:\n\n\nThe accusative is the direct object case and it is marked with \"-v\" in the singular. In the plural, its marker is \"-t\", which is preceded by the plural marker \"-j\".\n\nThe inessive marker is \"-n\" in the singular and the plural, when it is then preceded by the plural marker \"-j\". This case is used to indicate:\n\n\nThe illative marker is \"-j\" in the singular and \"-da\" in the plural, which is preceded by the plural marker \"-i\", making it look the same as the plural accusative. This case is used to indicate:\n\n\nThe elative marker is \"-s\" in the singular and the plural, when it is then preceded by the plural marker \"-j\". This case is used to indicate:\n\n\nThe comitative marker in the singular is \"-jn\" and \"-j\" in the plural, which means that it looks like the genitive plural. The comitative is used to state \"with whom or what\" something was done.\n\nThe personal pronouns have three numbers - singular, plural and dual. The following table contains personal pronouns in the nominative and genitive/accusative cases.\n\nThe next table demonstrates the declension of a personal pronoun \"he/she\" (no gender distinction) in various cases:\n\nLule Saami verbs conjugate for three grammatical persons:\n\n\nLule Saami has 5 grammatical moods:\n\n\nLule Saami verbs conjugate for three grammatical numbers:\n\n\nLule Saami verbs have two simple tenses:\n\n\nand 2 compound tenses:\n\n\nLule Saami, like Finnish, the other Saami languages and some Estonian dialects, has a negative verb. In Lule Saami, the negative verb conjugates according to tense (past and non-past), mood (indicative, imperative and optative), person (1st, 2nd and 3rd) and number (singular, dual and plural).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21725690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21725690", "title": "Marcel Linsman Prize", "text": "Marcel Linsman Prize\n\nThe Marcel Linsman Prize (or Linsman Prize) is a Belgian prize awarded every 3 years by the influential AILg (Association des Ingenieurs Diplomés de la Université de Liège), a Belgian academic association of engineers, to living scientists for excellence in the biomedical sciences. \n\nThe prize is restricted to researchers with a medical or engineering degree having performed research in Belgium. The age limit is 45 years but there is no restriction on the citizenship. For many years, the preference has been given to researchers in the field of neuroscience. This prize is awarded in memory of Marcel Linsman (1912-1989), distinguished University Professor.\n\nThe prize is usually awarded during an official ceremony taking place in one Belgian university during which two other prestigious prizes in different fields are awarded. Similar to other prestigious prize ceremonies, the recipients deliver a scientific presentation of their research.\n\nThe reputation achieved by this prize is ubiquitously recognized amongst academics in Europe.\n\nBorn in Liège on 22 June 1912, he studied mathematical sciences at the University of Liège, receiving his bachelor's degree in 1934. In 1937, he received his doctorate, with the highest distinction\" He was appointed assistant professor at Liège in 1938, and in 1964, full professor. In 1943, he became interested in numerical calculation and recognized immediately the electronic possibilities. He moved to Harvard University in 1947. From 1951 to 1955, he managed the development of one of the earliest European electronic computers, known as Machine I.R.S.I.A. His interest then took him into non-numerical applications of the computer. Starting with automatic translation, he initiated many projects, including teaching informatics and medical applications. Throughout his career, he was the recipient of many awards.\n\nIn IFIP, he was present from the first Council meeting in Rome until 1971, representing the Belgian member society. He was also active in the Technical Committee on Education (TC3). During the time IFIP was registered in Belgium, 1962 through 1967, he served as IFIP Assistant Secretary and handled all legal matters for IFIP. In 1974, he was in the first group to receive the IFIP Silver Core Award.\n\nMarcel Linsman died during the night from 18 to 19 April 1989. A foundation in his name has been established to promote scientific excellence in the field of biomedical sciences. \n\nSource: AILg-Liste des Lauréats\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22172383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22172383", "title": "Mongelli case", "text": "Mongelli case\n\nMichele Mongelli (born 1945) is a man from Turin, Italy, who was arrested on 27 March 2009 for allegedly sexually abusing his daughter over 25 years. His son Giuseppe (born 1968) was also arrested on the allegation of abusing his sister and his own four daughters. Because of the similarities, this case has been compared to the Fritzl case in Austria and the Sheffield incest case in Britain.\n\nThe 34-year-old daughter was given the pseudonym of Laura by the Italian press and other media. The victims had been kept in conditions of slavery and mistreatment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22870208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22870208", "title": "Moroccan Jews", "text": "Moroccan Jews\n\nMoroccan Jews ( \"Yehudim Maroka'im\") are the Jews who live or have lived in the area of North African country of Morocco. Some Jews migrated to this area and settled among the Berbers. They were later met by a second wave of migration from the Iberian peninsula in the period immediately preceding and following the 1492 Alhambra Decree, when the Jews were expelled from kingdoms of Spain, and soon afterwards, from Portugal as well. This second immigration wave deeply modified Moroccan jewry, who largely embraced the Andalusian Sephardic liturgy, making the Moroccan Jews switch to a mostly Sephardic identity.\n\nAt its peak in the 1940s, Morocco's Jewish population exceeded 250,000, but due to the migration of Moroccan Jews to Israel and other nations, including Operation Yachin from 1961 to 1964, this number has been reduced to approximately 5,000. The vast majority of Moroccan Jews now live in Israel, where they constitute the second-largest Jewish community, approximatively half a million. Other communities are found in France, Canada, Spain, the United States and South America, mainly in Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina.\n\nMoroccan Jews constitute an ancient community, immigrating to the region as early as 70 CE. Until the 1950s the majority of Morocco's Jews were still living in Morocco. In accordance with the norms of the Islamic legal system, Jewish Moroccans had separate legal courts pertaining to \"personal law\" under which communities (Muslim \"sharia\", Christian Canon law and Jewish \"halakha\" law abiding) were allowed to rule themselves under their own system. After Israel's independence in 1948, and due to domestic strife in the 1950s, the next several decades saw waves of Jewish emigration to Israel, France and Canada. Moroccan Jews emigrated for a variety of reasons. Some have emigrated to Israel for religious reasons, some faced persecution, and others left for better economic prospects than they faced in post-colonial Morocco. With every Arab-Israeli war, tensions between Arabs and Jews would rise, sparking more Jewish emigration. By the time of the Yom Kippur War in 1973, the majority of Morocco's Jewish population had emigrated.\n\nAs a protectorate of France, parts of Morocco were heavily influenced by French culture, while the same is true of the portions of the country that belonged to Spain. Traditionally, the Jews were classified as being French-Moroccan or Spanish-Moroccan depending on where in Morocco they lived, and remnants of these classifications can be felt today. These differences are reflected in language, foods, last names and even liturgy.\n\nMost Jews in Morocco lived in desolate areas during the late 1930s. This was in part due to increased taxation by the French protectorate. In 1936, a Jewish man, named Léon Blum, was appointed as prime minister of France. This gave some Moroccan Jews hope that they may be able to become French citizens at some point. Nearby Algerian Jews were granted right of passage to France, and this only furthered the desire of Moroccan Jews to embrace French culture to the extent of the Algerian Jews.\n\nEarly photographs of Moroccan Jewish families, taken in the early 20th century by German explorer and photographer Hermann Burchardt, are now held at the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nA small community of around 2,000–2,500 Jews live in Morocco today. However, in a rapidly increasing trend, young men from the community are emigrating to Israel and France. As of 2017, according to \"The Economist\", \"No Arab country has gone to the lengths of Morocco to revive its Jewish heritage.\" The country has restored 110 synagogues and has the Arab world’s only Jewish museum. More than 50,000 Israelis visit Morocco annually.\n\n\nThe Jewish quarters in Morocco were called \"mellahs\". Jews in Morocco were considered <nowiki>\"</nowiki>\"dhimmis\"<nowiki>\"'</nowiki> under Muslim law, meaning that they were seen as an inferior religious group, that were distinguished from the Muslim majority, and were prevented from participating in certain activities. However, \"dhimmis\" such as Jews were tolerated, following the Pact of Umar in the 7th century, unlike the policy of intolerance that the Christians practiced with the Jews at that time in Europe. Sultans put Jews in the \"mellahs,\" as what most see as an attempt to ostracize the Jews, and keep them from being exposed to insurgents. The Jewish quarters in Moroccan cities were called \"Mellahs.\" The Sultans also wanted the Jews to be protected for political reasons. An attack on minorities was seen as an attack on the Sultan's power. The Sultan put the Jews in the \"Mellah\" for their safety, as well as to protect the Sultan rulings from being tested by insurgents. The word \"mellah\" is similar to the Hebrew word for salt, \"melach (מלח)\". The term \"mellah\" refers to the salty, marshy area where the Jews of Northern Morocco were originally transferred and gathered. The \"mellah\" was not a ghetto and was not structured in a way similar to Jewish quarters in Europe. By the 1900's, most Moroccan cities had a \"mellah\".\n\nMoroccan Jewry has developed as a hybrid of the many cultures that have shaped Morocco itself, namely Jewish, Arab, Berber, French and Spanish.\n\nEven before the arrival of Sephardi Jews to Morocco, Moroccan Jews performed and developed the traditions of the Andalusian classical music and introduced it into their Liturgical music. In his book \"Jews of Andalusia and the Maghreb\" on the musical traditions in Jewish societies of North Africa, Haim Zafrani writes: \"In Spain and Morocco, Jews were ardent maintainers of Andalusian music and the zealous guardians of its old traditions ...\"\n\nTraditional Henna parties usually take place within the week before a special occasion, such as a wedding, Bar and Bat Mitzvah, or baby showers. During pre-wedding Henna parties, the Matriarch of the family (often the grandmother) smudges henna in the palm of the bride and groom to symbolically bestow the new couple with good health, fertility, wisdom, and security. The henna is believed in Moroccan tradition to protect the couple from demons. The grandmother covers the henna, a dough-like paste produced by mixing crushed henna plant leaves with water, in order to lock in body heat and generate a richer color. Normally, the henna will dye skin orange for up to 2 weeks. In Moroccan folklore, the bride is exempt of her household duties until the henna completely fades. After the bride and groom are blessed with the henna, the guests also spread henna on their palms to bring good luck.\n\nAlthough most Moroccan Jews tend to dress in styles of their adopted countries, traditional Moroccan clothing is sometimes worn during celebrations (Mimouna, weddings, Bar Miṣvas, etc.) or even during more intimate gatherings, such as Shabbat dinner. Men usually wear a white jellaba (jellabiya) cloak while women wear more ornate kaftans.\n\nMimouna is celebrated by many Moroccan Jews on the night following the last day of Passover. It has spread to be an almost national holiday in Israel where it is particularly prevalent in the city of Haifa.\n\nMany Rabanim have passed through and sojourned in Morocco leaving behind great influence. In 2008, a project to preserve Moroccan Torah and the words of its Ḥakhamim was initiated. DarkeAbotenou.com was created by a few members of the Toronto Sephardic Community; devoting their time and effort to increasing global awareness of the customs and laws that Jews of Morocco live with every day. Daily emails are sent in both English and French containing the customs, laws, and traditional liturgy of both the French and Spanish parts of Morocco. This daily publication is currently broadcast in both English and French.\n\nThe observer of a typical Moroccan Jewish prayer service will note the presence of Oriental motifs in the melodies. However, unlike the tunes of Eastern rites (Syrian, Iraqi, etc.), which were influenced by Middle Eastern sounds, Moroccan Jewish religious tunes have a uniquely Andalusian feel. Furthermore, just as Eastern liturgical melodies are organized into Maqams, Moroccan liturgy can be classified by Noubas. The Moroccan prayer rite itself is also unique among Sephardic customs. The Moroccan nusach has many unique components but has also incorporated numerous Ashkenazic customs due to the country's proximity and exposure to Europe. Some customs of the Moroccan nusach include:\n\n\n\nOver the years the Moroccan Jews' DNA was examined and studied by numerous studies, the general image of it showed that in terms of Y-DNA it was mainly from the same Levantine source as the vast majority of the world's Jewry, meaning that they too are descendants of the Ancient Hebrews/Israelites from the Biblical times. In the case of Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jews (in particular Moroccan Jews), who are apparently closely related, the non-Jewish component is mainly southern European.\n\nGenetic research shows that about 27% of Moroccan Jews descend from one female ancestor. Analysis of mitochondrial DNA of the Jewish populations of North Africa (Morocco, Tunisia, Libya) was the subject of further detailed study in 2008 by Doron Behar et al. The analysis concludes that Jews from this region do not share the haplogroups of the mitochondrial DNA haplogroups (M1 and U6) that are typical of the North African Berber and Arab populations. Similarly, while the frequency of haplogroups L, associated with sub-Saharan Africa, are present in approximately 20–25% at the Berber populations studied, these haplogroups are only present in 1.3%, 2.7% and 3.6% respectively of Jews from Morocco, Tunisia and Libya.\n\nBehar et al. conclude that it is unlikely that North African Jews have significant Arab, or Berber admixture, \"consistent with social restrictions imposed by religious restrictions,\" or endogamy. This study also found genetic similarities between the Ashkenazi and North African Jews of European mitochondrial DNA pools, but differences between both of these of the diaspora and Jews from the Middle East.\n\n"}
{"id": "1628018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628018", "title": "Norbert Vollertsen", "text": "Norbert Vollertsen\n\nNorbert Vollertsen (born 10 February 1958 in Düsseldorf) is a German doctor and human rights activist.\n\nVollertsen practiced medicine in North Korea from 1999 to 2001 with the Cap Anamur Committee, a non-governmental cooperation organization. In August 1999, he and Francois Large, another aid worker, donated their skin to Pak Jong Thae, a tractor factory worker in Haeju, South Hwanghae, who had suffered burns over three-quarters of his body and underwent three skin grafting operations. In recognition of his contribution, Vollertsen received the official Democratic People's Republic of Korea's Friendship Medal for his humanitarian assistance later that same month, in a ceremony attended by Supreme People's Assembly vice-president Yang Hyong Sop. He was also given a pass that allowed him to travel through the country freely, which was very unusual for a foreigner.\nAs he traveled in his capacity as an emergency physician, tending to the illnesses and injuries of common North Koreans in the countryside, he struggled with a nearly non-existent healthcare system, abject poverty and growing proof of a network of political prisons in North Korea that enforced the flow of wealth from the citizenry to the Pyongyang-based Korean People's Army and the Workers' Party of Korea which was then headed by Kim Jong-il. Using smuggled cameras, he obtained photos and films of flagrant, large-scale Human rights violations in North Korea. In particular, mass starvation was used as a tool of political control. He began collecting evidence of abuses, which he passed to a visiting United States Congress man, an act for which he was put under surveillance. Despite this Vollertsen continued to speak out against the North Korean government, which soon lost patience and forced him to leave North Korea in January 2001. Soon after returning home, he gave an interview about his experiences in North Korea, which the North Korean government denounced.\n\nThe North Korean government has portrayed him as a dishonest media manipulator who is suffering from mental instability. His wife, reacting to his decision to stay in South Korea as an anti-Kim activist, divorced him and is raising their children with a partner. \"My wife blamed me for not taking care of my family. She said my vision, my goals, my projects, were worth much more to me. And afterwards, I realised she was right. I do not want to sacrifice my family. But I know my wife and her partner are taking care of my children, and that they are safe and healthy. But the North Korean children are not\", said Vollertsen in 2003.\n\nIn September 2006, Vollertsen claimed that he had been attacked by a gang and had been run over by a taxi while in Seoul prior to giving a speech on North Korea.\n\nHe has written the book \"Inside North Korea: Diary of a Mad Place\", published in 2004. It was earlier translated into Japanese by Midori Segi and published in Japan in 2001.\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "2538193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2538193", "title": "Ohio Women's Hall of Fame", "text": "Ohio Women's Hall of Fame\n\nThe Ohio Women's Hall of Fame was founded in 1978 and has 356 members. It provides public recognition for the achievements of Ohio women that better their state, their country and their world. It is one of several across the United States honoring the achievements of women within the individual states.\n\n"}
{"id": "48859635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48859635", "title": "Philosophical Association of Japan", "text": "Philosophical Association of Japan\n\nThe Philosophical Association of Japan (PAJ; 日本哲学会 \"Nippon Tetsugakukai\") is the largest learned society for philosophy in Japan. The purpose of the association is to \"promote the study of philosophy and active interaction among researchers from philosophy, working as a forum to discuss on research, education and the role of philosophy in the modern world.\" The association was founded by Japanese philosophers in 1949, with Amano Teiyū (September 30 1884 – March 6 1980) being elected its first president. Since 1952, the association has published the journal annually, with Volume 69 releasing in April 2018.\n\nThe PAJ was founded in 1949 by Japanese philosophers, with Amano Teiyū being elected its first president. Beginning in 1952, mainly through the efforts of presidents Amano, Ide Takashi (March 10 1892 – March 9 1980), Shimomura Toratarō (August 17 1902 – January 22 1995), Mutai Risaku (August 8 1880 – July 5 1974), and Watsuji Tetsurō (1889 – 1960), the first edition of the association's journal was published \"with the primary purpose of offering occasions for the exchange of opinions and information about research in philosophy inside and outside of Japan\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNames and terms served of all past PAJ presidents:\n\n"}
{"id": "22553241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22553241", "title": "Polygamy in Namibia", "text": "Polygamy in Namibia\n\nWhile polygamous marriages are not legally recognized under the civil marriage laws of Namibia, a bill was successfully passed in 2003, based on the model in South Africa, which recognizes polygamous unions under customary law; affording a generous amount of benefits to polygamous unions, ranging from inheritance rights to child custody. It has been estimated that nearly one in seven women in Namibia live in polygamous relationships, which has resulted in large numbers of unmarried men.\n\nSince May 2009, a debate concerning legalizing civil polygamous marriages has been ongoing throughout the parliament in Namibia. The bill has faced both praise and fierce opposition. There have also been past attempts to outlaw polygamous marriages (including under customary law), which have received about an equal reaction. A bill that would have provided pension benefits to the spouses of a deceased polygamous president was voted down in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "18420616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18420616", "title": "Pot belge", "text": "Pot belge\n\nPot belge (French for \"Belgian mix\" or \"Belgian stew\", sometimes translated as Belgian pot) is a mixture of drugs illegally used by cyclists.\n\nThe term is commonly used to describe a mixture of drugs, variously constituted from cocaine, heroin, caffeine, amphetamines, and other analgesics. N.B. the use of the French word \"pot\" is not a reference to cannabis, and this drug is not normally associated with \"pot belge\". A French reference also lists morphine in the mix, and notes that it can also be called \"insane person mix\", though it's unclear whether this refers to the potential results of its use, or the suggestion that \"you have to be crazy to take it.\"\n\nThe mixture has become widely associated with the world of professional cycling where it was used for many years, before the institution of highly regulated testing. There are suggestions that its use among amateur participants has been on the increase as both a recreational and a (relatively cheap) performance-enhancing drug.\n\nIn his memoir 'Prisonnier du dopage', former pro cyclist Philippe Gaumont describes using \"pot belge\" for winter training purposes more than as aid during competition: \"J'ai toujours entendu les anciens dire que prendre les amphétamines pour une grande sortie d'entraînement aide à 'débloquer le moteur'\" (rough translation from French: \"I've always heard old timers say that taking amphetamines before a training ride helps to 'unclog the motor'\"). Gaumont describes his use of \"pot belge\" during a seven-hour training ride of the Cofidis team in the mountains at Arcalis in 1997, where he easily outdistanced the team's climbers thanks to the drug. After that, he became dependent on the \"pot belge\" for training: \"Dès que j'étais mal dans ma peau, je prenais du pot belge\" (translation: \"I'd use \"pot belge\" as soon as I didn't feel so good\").\n\nThe use of \"pot belge\" became more widely known during the 2006 Bordeaux-based trial following 2004's \"Cahors affair\". Several well-known professional cyclists were mentioned during the testimony of defendants.\n"}
{"id": "57348781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57348781", "title": "Progressive Women’s Political Club", "text": "Progressive Women’s Political Club\n\nWomen’s Political Club (Polish: Klub Polityczny Kobiet Postępowych) was a Polish women's organisation. It was founded in 1919 to encourage women to use the new political rights and equality granted in the constitution of the new Polish state in all of areas of society. It was a progressive political club for educated elite women. \n\n"}
{"id": "22443583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22443583", "title": "Quintueles", "text": "Quintueles\n\nQuintueles (variant: San Clemente de Quintueles) is one of 41 parishes in Villaviciosa, a municipality within the province and autonomous community of Asturias, in northern Spain. \n\nSituated at above sea level, the \"parroquia\" is in area, with a population of 663 (INE 2008).\n\nFossilised pterosaur tracks have been uncovered at Quintueles' Lastres Formation.\n\nThe climate of Quintueles is oceanic, humid and generally temperate.\n\nSpanish beans are produced in great quantities in Quintueles. These Spanish beans, along with the local fish and shellfish, comprise the staple foods of the region. Popular dishes include Spanish beans with clams, sea urchins, goose barnacles, brown shrimp, velvet crabs, European spider crabs, conger eels, and whiting. The local cider is also produced in abundance.\n\nPlaya de La Ñora, a local beach, is a major attraction in the area. Quintueles' granaries, villages and farms produce the apples and Spanish beans that the community is known for.\n\nAlso worth mentioning are the local sandstone quarries. Folklore states that a fifteenth-century hermitage was situated among the quarries. Upon paying homage to the Virgin of the Snows, the hermit was said to have received the protection of a large oak tree for his dwelling. The neighbourhood where this oak tree stood was named \"Granderroble\" in observance of the legend.\n\nBeginning from Gijón, take the A-8 toward Santander and leave at junction 378 for Quintueles. On entering the town, bear left at the intersection with the N-632. After 200 metres, turn right onto highway VV-I in the direction of Playa de la Ñora. After two kilometres is Quintueles' school and church, which are an important part of the community. Another option is to follow the N-632 road towards Villaviciosa. Shortly after passing the installation of Llorea is the council of Gijón. Continue past Villaviciosa to arrive in the town of Quintueles. After three more kilometres the route reaches the bypass to Playa de la Ñora. Quintueles is approximately 10 kilometres from Gijón.\n\nCuisine of the Lamp (Gastronómico de la Llámpara), is a festival organized by the Trumpet Society of Cultural Recreation (Sociedad Cultural Recreativa Clarín) of a neighbouring municipality, Quintes. The festival is hosted by the townsfolk of both Quintueles and Quintes.\n\nQuintueles is situated on the flat coast of Spain's Cantabrian Sea. It is approximately 19 kilometres from Villaviciosa and 12 kilometres from Gijón. Quintueles is a coastal town with beautiful, tall cliffs that overlook the Cantabrian Sea. Quintueles currently has a population of 663 people and there are about 460 dwellings. The town has an area of 9,81 square kilometres; the sea marks its northern border, while Gijón lies to the west, Quintes to the east and San Miguel de Arroes to the south.\n\nQuintueles has ten subdivisions:\n\nThe Quintueles community has been dedicated to agriculture and stockbreeding for generations, but the modern trend is displaying growth in the service sector.\n\nMany find the appeal of Quintueles to be its convenient location—it is near a large city, but the distance is great enough to maintain a pastoral atmosphere. This theory, however, is simply speculation.\n\nThe landscape of Quintueles is dominated by cultivated fields and orchards in the plains zones. Quintueles also has forests of eucalyptus, with a few native laurels, chestnut trees, oaks, and hazelnut trees. Ferns, furzes, and brambles may also be found in thickets.\n\nThis area is filled with animals typically found in coastal regions. Marine birds, namely seagulls and hawks, are common. Migratory birds such as swallows, thrushes and starlings are also present. Weasels, squirrels, boars, and foxes are found in the forests.\n\n"}
{"id": "56484104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56484104", "title": "SIMI terrorist training camps", "text": "SIMI terrorist training camps\n\nThe banned Islamist terror group Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) is known to have operated several terrorist training camps across India to train its members to carry out bombings and other subversive acts.\n\nSIMI operated several terrorist training camps in the southern Indian state of Kerala. Due to votebank politics and pressure from human rights activists, the ruling LDF government failed to act against such terrorist groups. Emboldened by the passive attitude of the government and its failure to bring charges against the organisers of the Binanipuram camp, SIMI conducted more terror training camps in the state. Indian Mujahideen, a SIMI front, enjoys a certain degree of political patronage in the state.\n\nA camp was organised in 2006 at Binanipuram near Aluva in Ernakulam district of Kerala state. 40-50 SIMI members were trained in commando and jungle warfare skills.\n\nOn 15 August 2006, Kerala police questioned 18 people and arrested five — Ansar Moulavi, Shaduli, Nizamuddin, Abdul Rafeeq and Shamas — under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The five arrested were later released on bail.\n\nAnsar Moulavi and Shaduli are also accused of attending another training camp at Vagamon conducted between December 2007 - January 2008. Both were arrested after the 13 May 2008 Jaipur bombings by the Rajasthan police.\n\nA camp was conducted at Thangalpara, Vagamon in Idukki district of Kerala in December 2007-January 2008. Camp attendees are said to be trained in commando, jungle warfare, trekking, rock climbing, rappeling and herbal medicine. Speeches inciting the participants to wage \"jihad\" (war) against India are said to made.\n\nAbout 20 students from Hubli, Belgaum and Bangalore were trained to assemble explosives with easily available materials by a bomb expert Abdul Subhan Qureshi. Ammonium nitrate, a commonly available nitrogenous fertiliser, was used in the 2008 Ahmedabad bombings. Prototypes of liquid bombs using commonly available hydrogen peroxide were first experimented at the Vagamon camp.\n\nAbdul Sathar alias Manzoor, from Aluva in Kerala, is accused of attending the camp and of being involved in the 2008 Ahmedabad bombings and 2008 Bangalore serial blasts. He is also accused of recruitment of youths from Kerala and sending them to Pakistan for terror training by the Lashkar-e-Taiba. Declared a proclaimed offender, an Interpol red alert notice was issued against him. A fugitive for six years, he was deported from Dubai on 2 August 2013 and arrested on arrival in India.\n\nOn 23 April 2013, a terror training camp inside a building owned by Thanal Foundation Trust in Mayyil Narath area of Kannur district was organised by members of Popular Front of India (PFI), a SIMI front. The camp was raided by police and 21 people were arrested. Country bombs, a sword, a human effigy, cellphones and accessories for making bombs were recovered during the police raid.\n\nAccording to the charge sheet filed by the investigators, activists belonging to Popular Front of India and its political wing Social Democratic Party of India had organised this training camp. The charge sheet said that one of the participants had links with Indian Mujahideen terrorist group. The investigators provided evidence of transfer of funds between bank accounts to prove its allegations. The bank accounts details of Sanaulla Shabandri were found during the raid on the house of one of the accused. Shabandri from Bhatkal, is believed to be a close associate of Yasin Bhatkal and an Indian Mujahideen member.\n\nOn 21 January 2016, a court sentenced 21 of those accused to varying years of imprisonments after they were found guilty under several charges including criminal conspiracy, membership of unlawful assembly, possession of arms and explosive substances, inciting communal disharmony, assertions prejudicial to national integration besides organising a terrorist camp.\n\nThe court found that the enterprise was unlawful and that the accused persons could not explain why they were in possession of weapons and country-bombs.\n\nIn April 2007, SIMI held a terrorist training camp at Castle Rock near Hubli, under the cover of hosting an outdoors event.\n\nIn January 2008, a training camp at an isolated place near the Khundpir (also spelt Khundmeer) \"dargah\" near Pavagadh in Gujarat state was reportedly used to train SIMI activists for the 2008 bomb attacks on the cities of Ahmedabad and Surat.\n"}
{"id": "1213847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1213847", "title": "Sarah Moore Grimké", "text": "Sarah Moore Grimké\n\nSarah Moore Grimké (November 26, 1792 – December 23, 1873) was an American abolitionist, writer, and member of the women's suffrage movement. Born and reared in South Carolina to a prominent, wealthy planter family, she moved to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the 1820s where she became a Quaker. Her younger sister Angelina Grimké joined her there and they both became active in the abolition movement. The sisters began to speak on the abolitionist lecture circuit, among a tradition of women who had been speaking in public on political issues since colonial days, including Susanna Wright, Hannah Griffitts, Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Anna Dickinson. They recounted their knowledge of slavery firsthand, urged abolition, and also became lawyers for women's rights.\n\nSarah Grimké – her parents sometimes called her \"Sally\" – was born in South Carolina, the sixth of 14 children and the second daughter of Mary Smith and John Faucheraud Grimké. Their father was a rich planter, and an attorney and judge in South Carolina.\n\nSarah's early experiences with education shaped her future as an abolitionist and feminist. Throughout her childhood, she was keenly aware of the inferiority of her own education when compared to her brothers' classical one. Although her family recognized her remarkable intelligence, she was prevented from obtaining a substantive education or pursuing her dream of becoming an attorney, as these goals were considered \"unwomanly.\" She was educated by private tutors on subjects considered appropriate for a young southern woman of her class, including French, painting with watercolors, playing the harpsichord, and doing embroidery. Her father allowed Sarah to study geography, history and mathematics from the books in his library, and to read his law books; however, he drew the line at her learning Latin.\n\nSarah's mother Mary was a dedicated homemaker and an active member in the community. She was a leader in Charleston's Ladies Benevolent Society. Mary was also an active Episcopalian and consequently often devoted herself to the poor and to women incarcerated in a nearby prison. Mary's beliefs were rigid; in addition, her many charitable activities kept her from developing affectionate relationships with her children.\n\nFeeling confined in her role, Sarah developed a connection to her family's slaves to an extent that unsettled her parents. From the time she was twelve years old, Sarah spent her Sunday afternoons teaching Bible classes to the young slaves on the plantation, an experience she found extremely frustrating. While she wanted desperately to teach them to read the scripture for themselves, and they had a longing for such learning, her parents prohibited this, as teaching slaves to read was illegal. Her parents also said that literacy would only make the slaves unhappy and rebellious, making them unfit for physical labor. Teaching slaves to read had been prohibited since 1740 in South Carolina.\n\nSarah secretly taught Hetty, her personal slave, to read and write, but when her parents discovered the young tutor at work, the vehemence of her father's response proved alarming. He was furious and nearly had the young slave girl whipped. Fear of causing trouble for the slaves themselves prevented Sarah from undertaking such a task again. Years afterward, she reflected on the incident, writing \"I took an almost malicious satisfaction in teaching my little waiting maid at night, when she was supposed to be occupied in combing and brushing my locks. The light was put out, the keyhole screened, and flat on our stomachs before the fire, with the spelling book under our eyes, we defied the laws of South Carolina.\"\n\nSarah's brother Thomas went to Yale Law School in 1805. During his visits back home, Thomas continued teaching Sarah new ideas about the dangers of Enlightenment and the importance of religion. These ideas, combined with her secret studies of the law, gave her some of the basis for her later work as an activist. Her father told her that if she had been a man, she would have been the greatest lawyer in South Carolina. Sarah believed her inability to get higher education was unfair. She wondered at the behavior of her family and neighbors, who encouraged slaves to be baptized and to attend worship services, but did not consider them true brothers and sisters in faith.\n\nFrom her youth, Sarah believed that religion should take a more proactive role in improving the lives of those who suffered most. Her religious quest took her first to Presbyterianism; she converted in 1817. After moving to Philadelphia in 1821, she joined the Quakers, whom she had learned about in an earlier visit with her father. There, she became an outspoken advocate for education and suffrage for African Americans and women.\n\nBy 1817, Sarah's father was seriously ill, and the doctors of Charleston recommended he travel to Philadelphia to consult Philip Syng Physick. Despite her vehement objections, her father insisted that Sarah, then 26 years old, accompany him as his nursemaid. Sarah relented, and they left Charleston for the north in May, 1819. When Physick found he could not help, he suggested that they take in the sea air of the fishing village of Long Branch, New Jersey. The pair settled into a boardinghouse, where, after just a few weeks, John Faucheraud Grimké died.\n\nAs a result of this experience, Sarah became more self-assured, independent, and morally responsible. She stayed in Philadelphia a few months after her father died and met Israel Morris, who would introduce her to Quakerism, specifically the writings of John Woolman. She returned to Charleston, but decided that she would go back to Philadelphia to become a Quaker minister and leave her Episcopalian upbringing behind. She was stymied, however, when she was repeatedly ignored and shut out by the male-dominated council. Becoming alienated, she later wrote, \"I think no criminal under sentence of death can look more fearfully to the day of execution than I do towards our Yearly Meeting.\"\n\nShe returned to Charleston in the spring of 1827 to \"save\" her sister Angelina from the limitations of the South. Angelina visited Sarah in Philadelphia from July to November of the same year and returned to Charleston committed to the Quaker faith. After leaving Charleston, Angelina and Sarah traveled around New England speaking on the abolitionist circuit, at first addressing women only in large parlors and small churches. Their speeches concerning abolition and women's rights reached thousands. In November, 1829, Angelina joined her sister in Philadelphia. They had long had a close relationship; for years, Angelina called Sarah \"mother\", as Sarah was both her godmother and primary caretaker.\n\nIn 1868, Sarah discovered that her late brother had three illegitimate mixed-race sons by his personal slave. Welcoming them into the family, Sarah worked to provide funds to educate Archibald Grimké and Francis James Grimké, who went on to successful careers and marriages, and were leaders in the African-American community. John, the youngest, was not interested in formal education and returned to the South to live.\n\nSarah and Angelina had come to loathe slavery and all its degradations. They had hoped that their new faith would be more accepting of their abolitionist beliefs than their former had been. However, their initial attempts to attack slavery caused them difficulties in the Quaker community. The sisters persisted despite their belief that the fight for women's rights was as important as the fight to abolish slavery. Although Sarah had the desire to 'equip women for economic independence and for social usefulness' [22], they continued to be attacked, even by some abolitionists, who considered their position extreme. In 1836, Sarah published \"Epistle to the Clergy of the Southern States.\" In 1837, \"Letters on the Equality of the Sexes and the Condition of Women\" was published serially in a Massachusetts newspaper, \"The Spectator\", and immediately reprinted in \"The Liberator\", the newspaper published by radical abolitionist and women's rights leader William Lloyd Garrison. The letters were published in book form in 1838.\n\nWhen the sisters were together in Philadelphia, they devoted themselves to charity work and to the Society of Friends (the proper name for the religion often called \"Quaker\"). Sarah began working toward becoming a clergy member but was continually discouraged by male members of the church. Sarah realized that, though the church was something she agreed with in theory, it was not delivering on its promises. It was around this time that anti-slavery rhetoric began entering public discourse.\n\nJoining her sister in the American Anti-Slavery Society in 1836, Sarah originally felt that she had found the place where she truly belonged, in which her thoughts and ideas were encouraged. However, as she and Angelina began speaking not only on abolition, but also on the importance of women's rights, they began to face much criticism. Their public speeches were seen as unwomanly because they spoke to mixed-gender audiences, called \"promiscuous audiences\" at the time. They also publicly debated men who disagreed with them. This was too much for the general public of 1837 and caused many harsh attacks on their womanhood; one line of thought suggested that they were both just poor \"spinsters\" displaying themselves in order to find any man who would be willing to take one.\n\nIn 1838, Angelina married Theodore Weld, a leading abolitionist who had been a severe critic of their inclusion of women's rights into the abolition movement. She retired to the background of the movement while being a wife and mother, though not immediately. Sarah completely ceased to speak publicly. Apparently Weld had recently written her a letter detailing her inadequacies in speaking. He tried to explain that he wrote this out of love for her, but said that she was damaging the cause, not helping it, unlike her sister. However, as Sarah received many requests to speak over the following years (as did Angelina), it is questionable whether her \"inadequacies\" were as bad as he described.\n\nDuring the Civil War, Sarah wrote and lectured in support of President Abraham Lincoln.\n\nSarah Moore Grimké was the author of the first developed public argument for women's equality. She worked to rid the United States of slavery, Christian churches which had become \"unchristian,\" and prejudice against African Americans and women.\n\nHer writings gave suffrage workers such as Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott several arguments and ideas that they would need to help end slavery and begin the women's suffrage movement.\n\nSarah Grimke is categorized as not only an abolitionist but also a feminist because she challenged the Society for Friends, which touted women's inclusion but denied her. It was through her abolitionist pursuits that she became more sensitive to the restrictions on women. She so opposed being subject to men that she refused to marry. Both Sarah and Angelina became very involved in the anti-slavery movement and published volumes of literature and letters on the topic. When they became well known, they began lecturing around the country on the issue. At the time women did not speak in public meetings, so Sarah was viewed as a leader in feminist issues. She openly challenged women's domestic roles.\n\nShe is remembered on the Boston Women's Heritage Trail.\n\nSarah Grimke's view on abolition is clear based on her activism and she was a major female player in the abolition movement. These views were rooted in her Quaker faith and she believed, similar to her sister, that slavery was contrary to God's will. Similarly, her views on women's rights were rooted in the Bible. She had strong opinions especially on the story of creation. She believed Adam and Eve were created equally, unlike many who believed Eve was created as a gift for Adam. She also assigns much of the blame for the fall on Adam, who was tempted by an equal, instead of Eve, who was tempted by a supernatural evil, which is more forgivable given their innocence. This view was a main argument in her \"Letter 1: The Original Equality of Woman\" which is the foundation of her views of equality of the sexes, which is discussed in more detail in her \"Letters on the Equality of the Sexes and the Condition of Woman\".\n\nSarah Grimke used Scripture in most of her writings that demonstrated her dedication to the Quaker faith and her genuine belief in it compatibility with activism. In 1837 Sarah responded to a \"Pastoral Letter\" that reinforced Biblical interpretations supporting the role of females in the \"private sphere\"only\",\"using Scripture to provide the benefits and power of this position. Sarah responded to this letter also with Scripture, encouraging women to take on a motto of \" 'The Lord is my light, and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life; whom shall I be afraid?' She must feel, if she feels rightly, that she is filling one of the most important duties laid upon her as an accountable being, and that her character, instead of being 'unnatural', is in exact accordance with the will of Him,\". Her faith and closeness to God were a critical factor in her ability to be unafraid during times of opposition and to argue on behalf of women and slaves well.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "33599360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33599360", "title": "Seomyeon Medical Street", "text": "Seomyeon Medical Street\n\nSeomyeon Medical Street (Hangul: ) refers to a medical district in Busanjin-gu, Busan named after and centered on the thoroughfare within a radius of the Seomyeon Lotte Department Store and Buam Station. It is one of three medical districts being devised by the Government of Busan and is the most concentrated in all of South Korea.\n\nLocated in Seomyeon near the Judies Taehwa shopping mall, Seomyeon Medical Street is home to a total of 160 cosmetic and other medical clinics, including those specializing in cosmetic surgery, dermatology, ophthalmology and dentistry. The Street area also provides a wide range of amenities and entertainment venues, including five-star hotel, large department store, large discount store, duty-free shop, casino, restaurants, beauty salon and clothing outlets.\n\nThe district's popularity amongst medical tourists from Russia, China, Japan and the United States has seen an influx in recent history. This has prompted city officials to invest into the area, as well as found an information center and provide access to tour guides fluent in Chinese, English and Japanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "25266538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25266538", "title": "Sri Lankans in India", "text": "Sri Lankans in India\n\nSri Lankans in India mainly refer to Tamil people of Sri Lankan origin in India and non resident Sri Lankans. They are partly who migrated to India and their descendants and mostly refugees from Sri Lanka because of the recently concluded Sri Lankan Civil War. There is also a small population of Sinhalese people in India, numbering about 3,500 and mostly located in Delhi and Chennai.\n\nDuring 19th century and early 20th century some Sri Lankan Tamils especially from Jaffna migrated or settled in India for various reasons such as education, employment in the British Indian government, business and other reasons.\n\nThe Sri Lankan refugees arrived in Tamil Nadu in four waves. The first wave on 24 July 1983, after Black July, to the 29 July 1987 up until the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord, 134,053 Sri Lankan Tamils arrived in India. The first repatriation took place after the signing of the Indo-Sri Lanka Accord in 1987 and between 24 December 1987 and 31 August 1989, 25,585 refugees and non-camp Sri Lankan nationals returned to Sri Lanka. The second wave began with the start of Eelam War II after 25 August 1989, where 122,000 Sri Lankan Tamils came to Tamil Nadu. On 20 January 1992, after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi 54,188 refugees were voluntarily repatriated to Sri Lanka, until March 1995. Eelam War III commenced in April 1995 starting the third wave or refugees. By 12 April 2002, nearly 23,356 refugees had come to Tamil Nadu. The flow of refugees had stopped in 2002 because of the cease fire agreement.\n\nSri Lankan Tamils in India number in the hundreds of thousands, mostly in the state of Tamil Nadu, the closest state to Sri Lanka and the easiest to get to. There is also a considerable amount in the city of Trivandrum, with around 2700 refugee families. There are also a number of Sri Lankan Tamils in the eastern regions of Orissa, Karnataka and Pondicherry.\n\nThere are a small amount of Sinhalese people in India, scattered all around the country, but mainly living in and around the northern and southern regions. Delhi has the largest concentration Sinhalese people with 1,100, the states of Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra have 800 and 400 respectively. There are an estimated 500 families in the city of Chennai, many of them who are employees of the Sri Lankan Deputy High Commission or work for IT companies. Some are also pursuing higher education. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the state of Gujarat have 200 each while other states such as Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Jharkhand have populations ranging from 60 to 30 people.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54320714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54320714", "title": "Stopper club", "text": "Stopper club\n\nA stopper club (German \"Stopselclub\") is a social club, the members of which always have to carry a bottle cork or stopper with them. Whenever two members of such a club meet, each can challenge the other to show a stopper. A member who cannot, possibly having left it at home, has to pay a small fine. The money collected through these fines is typically used to buy beer at the next club meeting. Stopper clubs have been around at least since the middle of the twentieth century in the German state of Bavaria. Occasionally they support charitable projects. There are more than 100 stopper clubs in Bavaria.\n"}
{"id": "39904414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39904414", "title": "Tamils in Pakistan", "text": "Tamils in Pakistan\n\nThere is a small community of Tamils in Pakistan. Some Muslim Tamils migrated from the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu, and settled in Karachi after the independence in 1947. These Muslim Tamils have integrated with the Urdu speaking Muhajir community. Although there also some Tamils that have been since early 20th century when Karachi was developed during the British Raj. There are also Sri Lankan Tamils that arrived during the Sri Lankan Civil War and these Tamils are mostly Hindus. The Madrasi Para area behind the Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre is home to 100 Tamil Hindu families. The Maripata Temple was located in this neighborhood demolished by a builder. The temple was the biggest Tamil Hindu temple in Karachi. In addition, Drigh Road and Korangi also have a Tamil population. There are also a small number of Tamil Christians in Karachi.\n\nThe Catholic community also has a number of Tamils within its ranks. Emmanuel Nicholas, the schoolteacher of former Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gillani, was a Sri Lankan Tamil and Victor Gnanapragasam, Bishop in Quetta are among the distinguished Tamil Catholic community of Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1592152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1592152", "title": "Vaeakau-Taumako language", "text": "Vaeakau-Taumako language\n\nVaeakau-Taumako (formerly known as \"Pileni\") is a Polynesian language spoken in some of the Reef Islands as well as in the Taumako Islands (also known as the Duff Islands) in the Temotu province of the Solomon Islands.\n\nThe language is spoken throughout the Taumako Islands, while in the Reef Islands, it is spoken on Aua, Matema, Nifiloli, Nupani, Nukapu, and Pileni. Speakers are thought to be descendants of people from Tuvalu.\n\nThe language has traditionally been considered one of the Futunic group of Polynesian languages, but a 2008 study exclusively based on lexical evidence concluded that this membership is weakly supported.\n\nVaeakau-Taumako does not vary from the standard Polynesian and Austronesian vowel system, featuring five vowels that can be used either in a long or short form. Short vowels found in word-final syllables are frequently devoiced or dropped, but long vowels in the same position are always stressed. There is little allophonic variation between vowel pronunciations.\n\nVowel sequences in Vaeakau-Taumako are typically not treated as diphthongs, as they are not fully reduplicated, as shown in the word \"holauhola\". This is despite the vowels in the original word being pronounced like a diphthong.\n\nThe Vaeakau-Taumako language has one of the most complex consonant system of the Polynesian languages, with 19 distinct phonemes, plus a large amount of variation across dialects. /b/ and /d/ are found primarily in loan words, rather being native to the language.\n\nAspirated sounds are characteristic of the language, and are typically strong and audible. However, the use of aspirated sounds varies across dialects, enough that it is difficult to identify a consistent pattern aside from noting they always occur at the start of stressed syllables.\n\nVaeakau-Taumako pronouns distinguish between 1st, 2nd and 3rd person pronouns. There are some inclusive and exclusive distinctions, and variations for singular, dual and plural in all cases. There are no gender distinctions. There is variation in the pronoun system for the dialects of Vaeakau-Taumako which can become quite complex, so for simplicity, only the general forms are recorded here.\n\nThere are two distinctive base sets of independent personal pronouns in Vaeakau-Taumako. The standard forms are used for formal occasions and recorded text, while the colloquial forms are typically found in informal, everyday conversation.\n\nThe language also features bound subject pronouns which act as clitics to the tense-aspect-mood marker of the verb of the constituent. They are not obligatory to use. The presence of the \"u\" has free variation by the choice of the speaker, but they are typically less prevalent in the colloquial forms.\n\nThe dual, plural and 2nd person singular have specific pronouns used in imperative and hortative sentences.\n\nWhen the subject and direct object of a sentence are the same thing, repetition of the independent pronoun in place of both argument positions is typically used. However, there is a set of emphatic coreferential pronouns used for the direct object to refer to someone or a group of people acting alone.\n\nThe word \"nga\" functions as a pronoun with specific use. It is a third person pronoun, but lacks specification for number, and is used to refer to both singular and plural referents. It typically is an anaphoric reference to a previously mentioned referent.\n\nWhile it is common for Polynesian languages to distinguish between alienability and inalienability with a and o possessives, this is not the case for Vaeakau-Taumako. This distinction exists, however it instead marks control – not of the possessed item itself, but of the possessive relationship.\n\nRelationships that can be initiated or terminated freely, such as items that can be bought, sold or given away at will are marked with the a-possessive.\n\nRelationships that are outside of the possessor's personal control, such as body parts and kinship relationships are marked with o-possessives.\n\nInstead of a- and o- possessives, alienability and inalienability in Vaeakau-Taumako are distinguished by the use of either prenominal or postnominal possessive pronouns.\n\nPrenominal possessive pronouns occur directly preceding the possessed nouns, and are typically used for inalienable relationships, such as kinship terms and body parts. Prenominal possessive pronouns distinguish between singular, dual and plural of the possessor. The singular possessive forms make an additional distinction between singular and plural of the possessed entity, and encode the a- or o-possessive directly. The dual and plural possessor forms are combined with the possessive prepositions \"a\" and \"o\" to express this distinction, or they may occur without a preposition. \nThe postnominal possessive pronoun succeeds the possessed noun, and are used to mark alienable relationships, such as owned items. They make no distinction between singular and plural of the possessed item, instead the distinction is usually made through the choice of article preceding the possessed noun. Like with prenominal possessive pronouns, the postnominal possessives are based on the possessive prepositions \"a\" and \"o\", plus a pronominal form indicating person and number of the possessor. In the singular form, this is the same set of suffixes found on the prenominal possessives, whereas in the dual and plural form, a distinct set of person and number forms are found. In the third and first person, these forms are identical to the independent personal pronouns, except for the lack of aspiration on the initial consonant. \nThe possessive suffixes \"-ku\" (1st person), \"-u\" (2nd person) and \"-na\" (3rd person) apply to a restricted set of kinship nouns: \"tama\"/\"mha\" ‘father’, \"hina\" ‘mother’, \"thoka\" ‘same-sex sibling’, \"thupu\" ‘grandparent’, and \"mokupu\" ‘grandchild’. These nouns cannot occur without possessive marking, they require either a possessive suffix or, in the dual and plural, a postnominal possessive pronoun. An alternative construction is for these nouns to take the 3rd person possessive suffix \"-na\" in combination with a prenominal possessive pronoun or possessive prepositional phrase. The form in \"-na\" must in such cases be understood as a neutral or unmarked form, since it may combine with a pronoun of any person and number; but a form in \"-na\" without any further possessive marking is unambiguously 3rd person. Nouns other than those previously mentioned do not take possessive suffixes, but instead combine with possessive pronouns.\n\nVaeako-Taumako displays negation in prohibitions (prohibitive, irrealis, imperfective, admonitive), statements (verbal and non verbal) polar questions and noun phrases. Negation morphemes behave similarly to verbs in many respects although they do not take tense-aspect-mood markers or form independent predicates. However, there are instances of their taking complement clauses and for this reason negation morphemes might be considered a sub-class of verb.\n\nProhibitive clauses may be divided into two. Prohibitive \"auā\", (equal to the English 'don’t') and Admonitive \"na\". Prohibitives pattern themselves in similar ways and are most frequently positioned cause initially. Admonitives behave and distribute slightly differently as will be illustrated below.\n\nNegated clauses appear with only a small range of tense-aspect-mood markers. Prohibitive clauses often display no tense-aspect-mood marker at all, if they do, the markers are either \"na\" irrealis or \"me\" prescriptive. Negated declarative clauses typically occur with either perfective \"ne\" or imperfective \"no\", with other options only marginally represented in collected data.\n\n\"auā\" appears clause-initially, however discourse particles such as \"nahilā\" (’take care, make sure’) may precede it. Other grammatical morphemes such as articles or markers of tense, aspect or mood may not precede it which excludes \"auā\" from the verb category of Vaeakao-Taumako.\n\n1.1\n\"Auā tau hano!\"\n\n‘Don’t go.’ \n\nHowever, \"auā\" behaves like a verb in that it may take clausal complements, which are then often either nominalised or the irrealis marker \"na\" is present (see table 1.1.3).\nA correlation exists between singular 2nd person subject and a nominalised clause although this correlation is not absolute.\n\n1.1 a\n\"Auā ko no hualonga!\"\n\n‘Don’t make noise!’ \n\nContrasting this, the 2nd person dual or plural subjects attract the irrealis marker \"na\" to create a prohibitive clause.\n\n1.1 b \n\"Auā kholuna ō!\"\n\n‘Don’t you (two) go!’ \n\nWithin data sets of Næss, A., & Hovdhaugen, E. (2011), as implied by the imperative nature of the morpheme, \"auā\" will tend to appear with 2nd person subjects as above, although both 1st and 3rd subjects are also found.\n\n1st Person\n\n1.1 c\n\"Tatu noho themu, auā hatno folongā\"\n\n‘We should all sit still and not be noisy.’ \n\n3rd Person\n\n1.1 d\n\n\"O ia auā no kutea mai tuku mata, ia a iau auā taku kuteange ona mata.\"\n\n‘She is not allowed to look at my face, ‘and I cannot look at her face.’ \n\n\"Auā\" is also found in conjunction with modifiers such as \"ala\" which marks a hypothetical or \"oki\", ‘back, again’. (\n\n1.1.1\n\n\"Auā ala tau faia e anga e tapeo i taha\"\n\n‘You should not do bad things outside.’ \n\n1.1.2\n\n\"Auoki tō haiange oki la manei oki la\"\n\n‘Don’t ever do that anymore here.’ \n\nIrrealis \"na\" and imperfective \"no\" adheres to a common pattern of appearing in 2nd person in dual or plural within prohibitive clause structure.\n\n1.1.3 \n\"Auā kholuna !\"\n\n‘Don’t you (two) go!’ \n\nInstances of 3rd person are less frequent and tend to include the imperfective \"no\" in postposition to morpheme \"auā.\"\n\n1.1.3 a\n\"A heinga auā no hū ite koe.\"\n\n‘Nothing shall be hidden from you.’\n\n\"na\" behaves similarly to \"aluā\" only in that it is clause initial, it is otherwise classified as a clause initial particle and it must be accompanied by the tense-aspect-mood marker \"me\" which acts as a prescriptive.\n\n1.1.4\n\n\"Na me teia te tangara!\"\n\n‘Don’t kill the man!’ \n\nHowever \"na\" also has a second function, it acts to point out the consequences of disobeying the order. In this role the \"na\" often appears without \"me\", creating a clause without tense-aspect-mood marking.\n\n1.1.4 a\n\"Meri noho lavoi, na me sepe.\"\n\n‘Mary, sit properly, do not expose yourself.’\n\nVerbal negation is made up of three morphemes which act independently and may be understood as the English equivalents to \"siai\" ‘not’, \"sikiai\" ‘not yet’,and \"hiekh\" ‘not at all’.\n\nAccording to Næss, A., & Hovdhaugen, E. (2011) the colloquial pronunciation of \"siai\" is \"hiai\", however the standard written form is \"siai\". \n\"Siai\" comes after preverbal arguments but is placed before the tense-aspect-mood particle and following clitic pronoun.\n\n2.1.1\n\"Ko ia siai ne longo ange ki a sinana.\"\n\n‘She did not listen to her mother.’ \n\nAs in the case of \"auā\" modifying particles, which are traditionally found after verbs, may appear following \"siai\". An example of this is \"loa\" which is an emphatic marker.\n\nFor example, \"siai loa\".\n\n2.1.1 a\n\n\"E mae loa te kai ia siai oki nei fuia ona mata.\"\n\n'He refused to eat, and he didn’t wash his face either.’ \n\nA further example is the addition of \"po\" which generally serves to connect a complement clause.\n\n2.1.1 b\n\"Siai po ke ileila sika\".\n\n‘She did not feel safe.’\n\n\"sikiai, hikiai\" (where \"sikiai\" is the formal written expression of spoken \"hikiai\") appears in the same formation as above \"siai\" except it proceeds the preverbal argument and precedes any tense-aspect-mood markers. It appears less frequently and is often accompanied by the perfective marker \"ne\".\n\n2.1.2\n\"A Osil hikiai ne ala.\"\n\n‘Åshild is not yet up.’\n\nThis is the emphatic form of the negator. It follows the same distribution as both \"sia\" and \"sikiai\" and is often accompanied by the post-nuclear modifier \"loa\".\n\n2.1.3\n\n\"Hiekhī loa nei kutea te ali na.\"\n\n‘He couldn’t find the flatfish at all.’ \n\nAs with \"siai\" \"hiekhī\" appears in conjunction with complementiser \"po\", although with lower frequency.\n\n2.1.3 a\n\n\"A thatou hiekhiē po no kutea i mui thatuno utuutu ai na.\"\n\n‘We had no idea where to draw water.’\n\nThe same negators are used as in the verbal clauses above.\n\n2.1.4 \n\"A Malani na siai e vai ai.\"\n\n‘And Malani, there was no water there.’\n\nPolar questions are commonly formed in three ways. A declarative clause with a rise in intonation to mark the interrogative which requires the binary, ‘yes’ or ‘no’ response, much as they are in English may be used. The second alternative is the addition of the verbal negator \"(o) siai\" ‘(or) not’ and the third is the addition of verbal negator \"sikiai\" (not yet) if the interrogative has a temporal element.\n\nSimple interrogative formed with declarative clause:\n\n3.1\n\"Thaka ō mua?\"\n\n‘Shall we go?’\n\n3.1 a\n\n\"(o) siai\"\n\n\"E ai mua etai ne au o siai? (NUP)\"\n\n‘Has anyone come here?’ \n\n3.1 b\n\n\"sikiai\"\n\n\"A hinana koi takuange po ke hano moa oi kutea moa a haupƝ po ko lanu e hikiai?\"\n‘His mother told him to go and see if the tide was rising yet.’\n\nNon-specific article \"e\" can be used to express 'negated existence' unless the noun has a possessive marker in which case \"e\" is absent.\n\n3.1.1\n\n\"Hiai loa e mahila ku kapakapai i hale.\"\n\n‘There is no knife for me to use in the house.’ \n\n"}
{"id": "50187479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50187479", "title": "Wallachian Roma", "text": "Wallachian Roma\n\nWallachian Roma or Vlax refers to a Romani community that migrated from what is today Romania (\"Wallachia\") to Southeastern Europe (the Balkans) in the 18th and 19th centuries. They speak Vlax Romani.\n\n"}
{"id": "2016493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2016493", "title": "Whirl-Mart", "text": "Whirl-Mart\n\nWhirl-Mart is a culture jamming ritual aimed at retail superstores and described by participants as \"art and action\".\n\nAn event consists of a group of supposed shoppers who congregate at a large superstore (usually a Wal-Mart, Toys \"R\" Us, Asda, or Sainsbury's) and slowly push empty shopping carts silently through store aisles. Participants will not purchase anything and seek to form a lengthy chain of non-shoppers, continually weaving and \"whirling\" through a maze of store aisles for up to an hour at a time. Participants describe their actions as \"a collective reclamation of space that is otherwise only used for buying and selling\". Whirl-Marters seek to mimic and mock what they perceive as the absurdity of the shopping process.\n\nThe activity was founded by the group \"Breathing Planet Troupe\" at a Wal-Mart store in Troy, New York, USA on April 1, 2001. The group was seeking to respond to an article from AdBusters magazine that called for foolish activities in conjunction with April Fool's Day. Since that time, Whirl-Mart activities have spread to many other communities around the world, including Texas, Iowa, Arizona, and Pennsylvania in the USA, Canada, and the United Kingdom. It is often \"celebrated\" at noon on the first Saturday or Sunday of the month. Whirl-Marters are often very loosely organized, describing themselves as open to anyone wishing to show up and participate.\n\nIn addition to being \"just darned fun,\" the activity provides a legal outlet for would-be protesters to address \"cathedral(s) of consumption\" like Wal-Mart. Consequently, experienced Whirl-Marters (when confronted by security or store management) do not admit to being protestors and instead maintain that they are engaged in a peaceful \"consumption awareness ritual.\" Whirl-Marters do not aim to block store aisles or interfere with legitimate shoppers, and typically will not speak unless addressed. Their aim is to create a non-disruptive, peaceful demonstration of how ridiculous they see Western consumerism to be. Participants are non-confrontational in seeking to make themselves silent examples rather than active propagandists. Some variations of the Whirl-Mart protest involve filling carts but then simply abandoning them or, when checking out, claiming to have forgotten the money to purchase the items in the overflowing cart, leaving said cart for the employees to clean up.\n\nParticipants claim they can generally talk their way out of being evicted from the store's corporate property (though the involvement of law enforcement officials in forcibly removing Whirl-Marters is not unheard of). When employees approach, Whirl-Mart participants generally scatter to various store aisles, forcing management or security to confront them individually. Participants will very rarely admit to or even address the topic of non-violent protest of commercialism or materialism, preferring to present themselves as would-be shoppers who are \"still looking for something to buy\" after spending up to an hour wandering aimlessly through a warehouse-sized superstore. Whirl-Marters often wear an identifying shirt or smock; in most jurisdictions it is not legally considered soliciting to wear a garment advertising a product, service, or cause.\n\nSome participants have attempted to document their activities with cameras or video recorders. The film or tape from these are often seized by store authorities. A few websites have video documenting Whirl-Mart events; however, in general, superstores do not permit cameras or video recorders on their premises — excluding security cameras used by the corporation itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31369823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31369823", "title": "Zaramo language", "text": "Zaramo language\n\nZaramo is a Niger-Congo language, formerly primary language of the Zaramo people of eastern Tanzania. Zaramo is also known as Zalamo, Kizaramo, Dzalamo, Zaramu, Saramo and, Myagatwa. The language is critically endangered. The ethnic population of the Zaramo people reaches about 200,000, yet there are only a few elderly speakers remaining.\n\nThese speakers are mostly located in the villages surrounding the city of Dar es Salaam. Zaramo is thought to be passed down matrilineally to the children in these villages, while it remains critically endangered in the city.\n\nThere are very few translations of the language in existence except for a few native speakers' documented translations, and the publication of the New Testament from 1975. \n\nZaramo is genetically tied to the Niger-Congo language family. It is classified under the Atlantic-Congo, Volta-Congo, Benue-Congo, Bantoid, Southern, Narrow Bantu, Central, G, and Zigula-Zaramo families. (G.33)\n\nZaramo is the official language of a Bantu tribe located in the coastal area surrounding the former capital city of Tanzania, Dar es Salaam. Linguistic evidence supports the theory that Zaramo originated from the Luguru tribe. A migration of the Zaramo people eastward from their original location in Tanzania has been the source of slight changes in their cultural language.\n\nThe Zaramo as they are known today are made up of clans that migrated from the Kutu and the Luguru around 1700. Their common ancestry with the Luguru is substantiated, in that they have the same common language with only slight dialectal variations. The language of the Zaramo is mutually intelligible with those of the Jutu, the Luguru, the Kwere, and the Kami. Most Zaramo people of today chose to speak the lingua franca of Tanzania.\n\nWhile the ethnic population of the Zaramo people reaches about 200,000, today there are only a few elderly speakers of Zaramo language. Most Zaramo people speak Swahili as their first language today and have adopted Swahili-Arabic names. They favor the Swahili over their endangered dialect for its broad use in communication and trade.\n\nZaramo is not the official language of any country or region. Currently, the only locations where Zaramo still exists is Pwani region of eastern Tanzania. This area is located between too cities - Bagamoyo and Dar es Salaam. The rural, costal area is home to the Zaramo people who are the only ethnic group to speak the language.\n\nThere are no known dialects of Zaramo. It shares a lexical similarity: 68% with Kutu [kdc], 65% with Kami [kcu], 61% with Kwere [cwe] and Doe [doe]. This connection is substantiated by the historical relationship between the tribes.\n\nThere are very few examples of Zaramo language available. A list of words and phrases was provided by a native speaker to the author of Short Specimens of the Vocabularies of Three Unpublished African Languages: Gindo, Zaramo, and Angazidja.\nThe Zaramo language uses latin script for its writing system. Latin script is the most widely used writing system in the world. Some languages adapted the alphabet by the addition of entirely new letters such Zaramo, and other languages from the Niger-Congro orthographies.\n\n"}
