{"id": "55208988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55208988", "title": "Attiya Dawood", "text": "Attiya Dawood\n\nAttiya Dawood (Urdu: عطیہ داؤد b. April 1, 1958) is a Sindhi poet, writer, feminist and activist. She was born in Moledino Larik (a small village in Naushero Feroze, Sindh, Pakistan) She has been hailed as one of the most important feminist Sindhi writers of her time. Dawood uses her poetry to highlight the oppression of women in Pakistani society in the name of tradition. She has been writing poetry since 1980.\n\nAttiya Dawood moved to Karachi in 1975, and has been writing poetry regularly since 1980. Her father was a school teacher, a poet and a Hafiz.\n\nShe changed her name from Attiya Larik to Attiya Dawood in the early 1970s. Her first poem, published in a Sindhi-language newspaper, received a negative reaction from her brothers; as a result she changed her name.\n\nDawood's biography \"Ainay kay Saamnay\" was published by Oxford University Press in 2009. An earlier version was published in Hindi in India in 2000 by Rajkamal Prakashan. Dawood wrote the story of her life during a residency at the Sanskriti Kendra in New Delhi, an institution that supports artists.\n\nAttiya Dawood has numerous publications to her credit. She writes mostly in Sindhi. She draws inspiration from her traumatic girlhood experiences in rural Sindh. Her poems have been translated into German, English and Urdu. Her poetry is noted for its sincerity and zeal.\n"}
{"id": "35480881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35480881", "title": "Bete people (Nigeria)", "text": "Bete people (Nigeria)\n\nThe Bete people of Bete Town, Takum, Nigeria, speak the nearly extinct Bete language. \n"}
{"id": "18597092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18597092", "title": "Bzhedugs", "text": "Bzhedugs\n\nBzhedug or Bazdug (, \"Bz̄edyğw\", ; , ) are one of the 12 tribal divisions of the Adyghe Circassians.\n\nMany of them immigrated to Turkey in the 1860s, but there is still a community of Bzhedug on the left bank of the Kuban River (in the vicinity of Krasnodar). The Bzhedug people live in Adygea and Krasnodar Krai, and are well represented in the Adyghe (Circassian) diaspora in all countries of residence. Even in ancient times the Bzhedug people were divided into four tribes.\n\nThe Bzhedugs originally lived in the area of Shahe River, between Tuapse and Sochi. Later they divided in two groups: those who lived close to the Black Sea (Abhiaskis) and Adygeans (territory of Kuban River). This migration was causes by overpopulation and warlike neighbors to their Black Sea’s territories. Bzhedug were subdivided into Chechenay tribe (Psekups River and Pshish River) and the Hamish tribe (Afips River and Psekups River). They were involved in cattle breeding and agriculture, growing mostly crops and corn. \n\nThe Bzhedugs people speak a dialect (, \"Bz̄edyğwbze\") of the Adyghe language.\n\nThere are 48 Circassian villages in Republic of Adygea, 26 of which are Bzhedug villages (54% of the villages in Adygea). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51610490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51610490", "title": "Celebrity doctor", "text": "Celebrity doctor\n\nCelebrity doctors, as used in this article, are medical professionals who have extensive media exposure. Some may have a secondary role as an entertainer. Examples of celebrity doctors include Dr. Oz, Dr. Drew, Dr. Weil and Dr. Phil.\n\nA \"celebrity doctor\" is a medical professional noted for appearances on television, the internet and social media, books, and speaking engagements.\n\nFor many years, doctors such as Everett Koop, Benjamin Spock and Ruth Westheimer gave advice on the radio, on television, and in books.\n\nWith the growth of the internet and social media, medical professionals had more places to reach the public, especially with messages alternative to mainstream medical advice.\n\nCelebrity doctors are part of a \"healthcare/media complex\" that constantly seeks new attention of consumers in the 24 hour news cycle with catchy content about health in order to achieve and maintain high rankings, which media channels can then monetize. There is a conflict between their roles and responsibilities as medical doctors, and their roles as business people and entertainers.\n\nConsumers generally trust that the content they receive from celebrity doctors is valid due to their credentials and their fame. Content may be exaggerated and simplified by the need to gain and keep the public's attention, and is often general and may not be applicable to an individual receiving the content. The problem of conflicts of interest becomes especially acute if a celebrity doctor endorses some specific product or approach to health when they deliver content about health, and also sells related products. Sometimes the content is dangerous because people who are sick waste time following poor or irrelevant advice and their illness advances and becomes more difficult to manage.\n\nIn \"The BMJ\"'s Christmas 2014 edition, a study determined that for the TV show \"The Doctors\", \"evidence supported 63%, contradicted 14%, and was not found for 24%\" of recommendations made by the panel of doctors, and for \"The Dr. Oz Show\", \"evidence supported 46%, contradicted 15%, and was not found for 39%\" of his recommendations; the study also said that \"the public should be skeptical about recommendations made on medical talk shows.\"\n\nExamples of celebrity doctors include Deepak Chopra, Phil McGraw aka Dr. Phil, Mehmet Oz, Drew Pinsky, David Perlmutter, and Andrew Weil.\n\nRobert Atkins and Arthur Agatston are examples of celebrity doctors who have created and promoted fad diets.\n\nCelebrity doctors based outside the US include Ginni Mansberg (Australia); Eriko Wakisaka (Japan); and Hayden Kho (Philippines).\n\nSeveral doctors from the UK have presented on the medical reality television show \"Embarrassing Bodies\" (which has been praised for its service to public health while remaining popular) and have become celebrities, including Pixie McKenna, Dawn Harper, and Christian Jessen.\n"}
{"id": "25212235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25212235", "title": "Cholos pescadores", "text": "Cholos pescadores\n\nCholos pescadores (\"Cholo fishermen\", cholo pescador) are a socio-ethnic group that live in Ecuador's Guayas, Santa Elena and Manabí provinces. They are descended from indigenous groups from the coast, which were wiped out as political entities during the colonial era. Today cholos pescadores continue to engage in fishing as their primary economic activity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3447769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3447769", "title": "Convention (meeting)", "text": "Convention (meeting)\n\nA convention, in the sense of a meeting, is a gathering of individuals who meet at an arranged place and time in order to discuss or engage in some common interest. The most common conventions are based upon industry, profession, and fandom. Trade conventions typically focus on a particular industry or industry segment, and feature keynote speakers, vendor displays, and other information and activities of interest to the event organizers and attendees. Professional conventions focus on issues of concern along with advancements related to the profession. Such conventions are generally organized by societies or communities dedicated to promotion of the topic of interest. Fan conventions usually feature displays, shows, and sales based on pop culture and guest celebrities. Science fiction conventions traditionally partake of the nature of both professional conventions and fan conventions, with the balance varying from one to another. Conventions also exist for various hobbies, such as gaming or model railroads.\n\nConventions are often planned and coordinated, often in exacting detail, by professional meeting and convention planners, either by staff of the convention's hosting company or by outside specialists. Most large cities will have a convention center dedicated to hosting such events. The term MICE—meetings Incentives Conventions and Exhibitions—is widely used in Asia as a description of the industry. The Convention (\"C\") is one of the most dynamic elements in the M.I.C.E. segment. The industry is generally regulated under the tourism sector.\n\nIn the technical sense, a convention is a meeting of delegates or representatives. The 1947 Newfoundland National Convention is a classic example of a state-sponsored political convention. More often, organizations made up of smaller units, chapters, or lodges, such as labor unions, honorary societies, and fraternities and sororities, meet as a whole in convention by sending delegates of the units to deliberate on the organization's common issues. This also applies to a political convention, though in modern times the common issues are limited to selecting a party candidate or party chairman. In this technical sense, a congress, when it consists of representatives, is a convention. The British House of Commons is a convention, as are most other houses of a modern representative legislature. The National Convention or just \"Convention\" in France comprised the constitutional and legislative assembly which sat from September 20, 1792 to October 26, 1795. The governing bodies of religious groups may also be called conventions, such as the General Convention of the Episcopal Church USA and the Southern Baptist Convention.\n\nMany sovereign states have provisions for conventions besides their permanent legislature. The Constitution of the United States of America has a provision for the calling of a constitutional convention, whereby delegates of the states are summoned to a special meeting to amend or draft the constitution. This process has never occurred, save for the original drafting of the constitution, although it almost happened in several cases. The US Constitution also has provisions for constitutional amendments to be approved by state conventions of the people. This occurred to ratify the original constitution and to adopt the twenty-first amendment, which ended prohibition.\n\n\"Con\" is a common abbreviation for convention, and some conventions (such as DEF CON and Gen Con) use it in their names.\n\nWhen two or more conventions are held at the same place and time they are co-located. Co-located conventions are usually in related industries.\n\n\nSaaa\n"}
{"id": "21102030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21102030", "title": "Corruption in Paraguay", "text": "Corruption in Paraguay\n\nObservers maintain that corruption in Paraguay remains a major impediment to the emergence of stronger democratic institutions and sustainable economic development in Paraguay. \n\nPresident Nicanor Duarte's measures to combat corruption have included increased penalties for tax evasion and other measures to increase tax revenue, greater oversight of government spending, and a crackdown on the trade of contraband and counterfeit goods. \n\nHe also removed members of the Supreme Court after corruption allegations surfaced against them. \n\nTransparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 123rd place out of 176 countries. \n\nThis ranking was an improvement from 2004 when the country was classified among the six most corrupt countries in the world and the second most corrupt in the Western Hemisphere. The opposition, however, has claimed that anti-corruption efforts have not been far-reaching enough because they have not addressed the clientelism that is pervasive in Paraguayan politics or the dominance of the Colorado Party in governmental institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "7172656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7172656", "title": "Crime in the United States", "text": "Crime in the United States\n\nCrime in the United States has been recorded since colonization. Crime rates have varied over time, with a sharp rise after 1963, reaching a broad peak between the 1970s and early 1990s. Since then, crime has declined significantly in the United States, and current crime rates are approximately the same as those of the 1960s.\n\nStatistics on specific crimes are indexed in the annual Uniform Crime Reports by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and by annual National Crime Victimization Surveys by the Bureau of Justice Statistics. In addition to the primary Uniform Crime Report known as \"Crime in the United States\", the FBI publishes annual reports on the status of law enforcement in the United States. The report's definitions of specific crimes are considered standard by many American law enforcement agencies. According to the FBI, index crime in the United States includes violent crime and property crime. Violent crime consists of four criminal offenses: murder and non-negligent manslaughter, rape, robbery, and aggravated assault; property crime consists of burglary, larceny, motor vehicle theft, and arson.\n\nIn the long term, violent crime in the United States has been in decline since colonial times. The homicide rate has been estimated to be over 30 per 100,000 people in 1700, dropping to under 20 by 1800, and to under 10 by 1900.\n\nAfter World War II, crime rates increased in the United States, peaking from the 1970s to the early 1990s. Violent crime nearly quadrupled between 1960 and its peak in 1991. Property crime more than doubled over the same period. Since the 1990s, however, crime in the United States has declined steadily. Several theories have been proposed to explain this decline:\n\nEach state has a set of statutes enforceable within its own borders. A state has no jurisdiction outside of its borders, even though still in the United States. It must request extradition from the state in which the suspect has fled. In 2014, there were 186,873 felony suspects outside specific states jurisdiction against whom no extradition would be sought. Philadelphia has about 20,000 of these since it is near a border with four other states. Extradition is estimated to cost a few hundred dollars per case.\n\nFor 2012, law enforcement made approximately 12,200,000 arrests nationally, down 200,000 from 2011. Arrested offenders in the United States tend to be male, over age 18, and white, mirroring the general population. Based on a comparison with race and ethnicity data from the 2010 Census, blacks are arrested for more crimes than average, Native Americans are arrested for slightly more crimes than average, whites are arrested for slightly fewer crimes than average, and Asians and Pacific Islanders are arrested for fewer crimes than average.\n\nCharacteristics of offenders vary from the average for specific types of crimes and specific crimes. In terms of violent crime by gender, in 2011, 80.4% of arrested persons were male and 19.6% were female. Males were 88.2% of those arrested for homicide, while females were 11.8%. Among those arrested for rape in 2011, males were 98.8% and females were 1.2%. For property crime in 2011, 62.9% of arrested persons were male and 37.1% were female.\n\nFor violent crime by race in 2011, 59.4% of those arrested were white, 38.3% were black, and 2.2% were of other races. For persons arrested for homicide in 2011, 49.7% were black, 48% were white, and 2.3% were of other races. For persons arrested for rape in 2011, 65% were white, 32.9% were black, and 2.1% were of other races. For property crime in 2011, 68.1% of arrested persons were white, 29.5% were black, and 2.4% were of other races.\n\nIn 2011, law enforcement reported 6,222 bias-motivated incidents, known as hate crimes, for which 5,731 offenders were identified. Of these, 59% were white, 20.9% were black, 7.1% were of various races, 1.4% were Asian or Pacific Islanders, 0.8% were Native American, and 10.8% were of unknown race.\n\nReporting at the annual meeting of the American Sociological Association (August 3, 2008), sociologists at Bowling Green State University found that men who attend college are more likely to commit property crimes during their college years than their non-college-attending peers. The research draws from three waves of data from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health and examines education, crime levels, substance abuse and socializing among adolescents and young adults. Also, according to Naci Mocan of the University of Colorado and Erdal Tekin of Georgia State University, \"We find that unattractive individuals commit more crime in comparison to average-looking ones, and very attractive individuals commit less crime in comparison to those who are average-looking.\"\n\nIn 2011, surveys indicated more than 5.8 million violent victimizations and 17.1 million property victimizations took place in the United States; according to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, each property victimization corresponded to one household, while violent victimizations is the number of victims of a violent crime.\n\nPatterns are found within the victimology of crime in the United States. Overall, males, people with lower incomes, those younger than 25, and non-whites were more likely to report being the victim of crime. Income, gender, and age had the most dramatic effect on the chances of a person being victimized by crime, while the characteristic of race depended upon the crime being committed.\n\nIn terms of gender, males were more likely to become crime victims than were females, with 79% percent of all murder victims being male. Males were twice as likely to be carjacked as females. In terms of income, households with a 2008 income of less than $15,000 were significantly more likely to have their homes burgled.\n\nConcerning age, those younger than twenty-five were more likely to fall victim to crime, especially violent crime. The chances of being victimized by violent crime decreased far more substantially with age than the chances of becoming the victim of property crime. For example, 3.03% of crimes committed against a young person were theft, while 20% of crimes committed against an elderly person were theft.\n\nBias motivation reports showed that of the 7,254 hate crimes reported in 2011, 47.7% (3,465) were motivated by race, with 72% (2,494) of race-motivated incidents being anti-black. In addition, 20.8% (1,508) of hate crimes were motivated by sexual orientation, with 57.8% (871) of orientation-motivated incidents being anti-male homosexual. The third largest motivation factor for hate crime was religion, representing 18.2% (1,318) incidents, with 62.2% (820) of religion-motivated incidents being anti-Jewish.\nAs of 2007, violent crime against homeless people is increasing. The rate of such documented crimes in 2005 was 30% higher than of those in 1999. 75% of all perpetrators are under the age of 25. Studies and surveys indicate that homeless people have a much higher criminal victimization rate than the non-homeless, but that most incidents never get reported to authorities. In recent years, largely due to the efforts of the National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH) and academic researchers the problem of violence against the homeless has gained national attention. The NCH called deliberate attacks against the homeless hate crimes in their report \"Hate, Violence, and Death on Mainstreet USA\" (they retain the definition of the American Congress). The \"Center for the Study of Hate & Extremism\" at California State University, San Bernardino in conjunction with the NCH found that 155 homeless people were killed by non-homeless people in \"hate killings\", while 76 people were killed in all the other traditional hate crime homicide categories such as race and religion, combined. The CSHE contends that negative and degrading portrayals of the homeless contribute to a climate where violence takes place.\n\nThe likelihood of falling victim to crime relates to both demographic and geographic characteristics. Overall, men, minorities, the young, and those in urban areas are more likely to be crime victims. The likelihood of perpetrating crime also relates to demography.\n\nIn 2010, according to the UNODC, 67.5% of all homicides in the United States were perpetrated using a firearm. The costliest crime in terms of impact on victims, and the most underreported crime is rape, in the United States.\n\nThe United States has the highest incarceration rate in the world (which includes pre-trial detainees and sentenced prisoners). As of 2009, 2.3 million people were incarcerated in the United States, including federal and state prisons and local jails, creating an incarceration rate of 793 persons per 100,000 of national population. During 2011, 1.6 million people were incarcerated under the jurisdiction of federal and state authorities. At the end of 2011, 492 persons per 100,000 U.S. residents were incarcerated in federal and state prisons. Of the 1.6 million state and federal prisoners, nearly 1.4 million people were under state jurisdiction, while 215,000 were under federal jurisdiction. Demographically, nearly 1.5 million prisoners were male, and 115,000 were female, while 581,000 prisoners were black, 516,000 were white, and 350,000 were Hispanic.\n\nAmong the 1.35 million sentenced state prisoners in 2011, 725,000 people were incarcerated for violent crimes, 250,000 were incarcerated for property crimes, 237,000 people were incarcerated for drug crimes, and 150,000 were incarcerated for other offenses. Of the 200,000 sentenced federal prisoners in 2011, 95,000 were incarcerated for drug crimes, 69,000 were incarcerated for public order offenses, 15,000 were incarcerated for violent crimes, and 11,000 were incarcerated for property crimes.\n\nThe manner in which America's crime rate compared to other countries of similar wealth and development depends on the nature of the crime used in the comparison. Overall crime statistic comparisons are difficult to conduct, as the definition and categorization of crimes varies across countries. Thus an agency in a foreign country may include crimes in its annual reports which the United States omits, and vice versa.\n\nHowever, some countries such as Canada have similar definitions of what constitutes a violent crime, and nearly all countries had the same definition of the characteristics that constitutes a homicide. Overall the total crime rate of the United States is higher than developed countries, specifically Europe, with South American countries and Russia being the exceptions. Some types of reported property crime in the U.S. survey as lower than in Germany or Canada, yet the homicide rate in the United States is substantially higher as is the prison population.\n\nThe reported U.S. violent crime rate includes murder, rape and sexual assault, robbery, and assault, whereas the Canadian violent crime rate includes all categories of assault, including Assault level 1 (i.e., assault not using a weapon and not resulting in serious bodily harm). A Canadian government study concluded that direct comparison of the 2 countries' violent crime totals or rates was \"inappropriate\".\n\nFrance does not count minor violence such as punching or slapping as assault, whereas Austria, Germany, and Finland do count such occurrences.\n\nThe United Kingdom similarly has different definitions of what constitutes violent crime compared to the United States, making a direct comparison of the overall figure flawed. The FBI’s Uniform Crime Reports defines a “violent crime” as one of four specific offenses: murder and non-negligent manslaughter, forcible rape, robbery, and aggravated assault. The British Home Office, by contrast, has a different definition of violent crime, including all “crimes against the person,” including simple assaults, all robberies, and all “sexual offenses,” as opposed to the FBI, which only counts aggravated assaults and “forcible rapes.”\n\nCrime rates are necessarily altered by averaging neighborhood higher or lower local rates over a larger population which includes the entire city. Having small pockets of dense crime may lower a city's average crime rate.\n\nAccording to a 2013 report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), , the average homicide rate in the U.S. was 4.9 per 100,000 inhabitants compared to the average rate globally, which was 6.2. However, the U.S. had much higher murder rates compared to other countries identified in the report as \"developed\", which all had average homicide rates of 0.8 per 100,000. In 2004, there were 5.5 homicides for every 100,000 persons, roughly three times as high as Canada (1.9) and six times as high as Germany and Italy (0.9). A closer look at The National Archive of Criminal Justice Data indicates that \"per capita\" homicide rates over the last 30 plus years on average, of major cities, New Orleans' average annual \"per capita\" homicide rate of 52 murders per 100,000 people overall (1980–2012) is the highest of U.S. cities with average annual homicide totals that were among the top 10 highest during the same period.\nIn the United States, the number of homicides where the victim and offender relationship was undetermined has been increasing since 1999 but has not reached the levels experienced in the early 1990s. In 14% of all murders, the victim and the offender were strangers. Spouses and family members made up about 15% of all victims, about one-third of the victims were acquaintances of the assailant, and the victim and offender relationship was undetermined in over one-third of homicides.\nGun involvement in homicides were gang-related homicides which increased after 1980, homicides that occurred during the commission of a felony which increased from 55% in 1985 to 77% in 2005, homicides resulting from arguments which declined to the lowest levels recorded recently, and homicides resulting from other circumstances which remained relatively constant. Because gang killing has become a normal part of inner cities, many including police hold preconceptions about the causes of death in inner cities. When a death is labeled gang-related it lowers the chances that it will be investigated and increases the chances that the perpetrator will remain at large. In addition, victims of gang killings often determine the priority a case will be given by police. Jenkins (1988) argues that many serial murder cases remain unknown to police and that cases involving Black offenders and victims are especially likely to escape official attention.\n\nAccording to the FBI, \"When the race of the offender was known, 53.0 percent were black, 44.7 percent were white, and 2.3 percent were of other races. The race was unknown for 4,132 offenders. (Based on Expanded Homicide Data Table 3). Of the offenders for whom gender was known, 88.2 percent were male.\" According to the U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics, from 1980 to 2008, 84 percent of white homicide victims were killed by white offenders and 93 percent of black homicide victims were killed by black offenders.\n\n The United States has the highest rate of civilian gun ownership per capita. According to the CDC, between 1999 and 2014 there have been 185,718 homicides from use of a firearm and 291,571 suicides using a firearm. Despite a significant increase in the sales of firearms since 1994, the US has seen a drop in the annual rate of homicides using a firearm from 7.0 per 100,000 population in 1993 to 3.6 per 100,000. In the ten years between 2000 and 2009, the ATF reported 37,372,713 clearances for purchase, however, in the four years between 2010 and 2013, the ATF reported 31,421,528 clearances.\n\nAccording to a 2004 study by the Bureau of Justice Statistics, looking at the period from 1981 to 1999, the United States had a lower surveyed residential burglary rate in 1998 than Scotland, England, Canada, the Netherlands, and Australia. The other two countries included in the study, Sweden and Switzerland, had only slightly lower burglary rates. For the first nine years of the study period the same surveys of the public showed only Australia with rates higher than the United States. The authors noted various problems in doing the comparisons including infrequent data points. (The United States performed five surveys from 1995 to 1999 when its rate dipped below Canada's, while Canada ran a single telephone survey during that period for comparison.)\n\nAccording to a 2001 report from UNICEF, the United States has the highest rate of deaths from child abuse and neglect of any industrialized nation, at 2.4 per 100,000 children; France has 1.4, Japan 1, UK 0.9 and Germany 0.8. According to the US Department of Health, the state of Texas has the highest death rate, at 4.05 per 100,000 children, New York has 2.46, Oregon 1.49 and New Hampshire 0.35.  A UNICEF report on child wellbeing stated that the United States and the United Kingdom ranked lowest among industrial nations with respect to the wellbeing of children.\n\nIn 2012 US had the highest children (0-19 yo) homicide rate in the developed world - 4 per 100 000 people.\n\nCrime rates vary in the United States depending on the type of community. Within metropolitan statistical areas, both violent and property crime rates are higher than the national average; in cities located outside metropolitan areas, violent crime was lower than the national average, while property crime was higher. For rural areas, both property and violent crime rates were lower than the national average.\n\nFor regional comparisons, the FBI divides the United States into four regions: Northeast, Midwest, South, and West. For 2011, the region with the lowest violent crime was the Midwest, with a rate of 349.9 per 100,000 residents, while the region with the highest violent crime rate was the South, with a rate of 428.8 per 100,000. For 2011, the region with the lowest property crime rate was the Northeast, with a rate of 2,121.8 per 100,000 residents, while the region with the highest property crime rate was the South, with a rate of 3,370.8 per 100,000.\n\nCrime rates vary among U.S. states. In 2011, the state with the lowest violent crime rate was Maine, with a rate of 123.2 per 100,000 residents, while the state with the highest violent crime rate was Tennessee, with a rate of 608.2 per 100,000. However, the District of Columbia, the U.S. capital district, had a violent crime rate of 1,202.1 per 100,000 in 2011. In 2011, the state with the highest property crime rate was South Carolina, with a rate of 3,904.2 per 100,000, while the state with the lowest property crime rate was South Dakota, with a rate of 1,817.7 per 100,000. However, Puerto Rico, an unincorporated territory of the United States, had a property crime rate of 1,395.2 per 100,000 in 2011.\n\nLouisiana's homicide rate of 12.4 per 100,000, in 2017, was the highest among U.S. states for the 29th straight year according to the 2017 FBI Uniform Crime Report.\n\nCrime in metropolitan statistical areas tends to be above the national average; however, wide variance exists among and within metropolitan areas. Some responding jurisdictions report very low crime rates, while others have considerably higher rates; these variations are due to many factors beyond population. FBI crime statistics publications strongly caution against comparison rankings of cities, counties, metropolitan statistical areas, and other reporting units without considering factors other than simply population. For 2011, the metropolitan statistical area with the highest violent crime rate was the Memphis metropolitan area, with a rate of 980.4 per 100,000 residents, while the metropolitan statistical area with the lowest violent crime rate was Logan metropolitan area, with a rate of 47.7.\n\nIt is quite common for crime in American cities to be highly concentrated in a few, often economically disadvantaged areas. For example, San Mateo County, California had a population of approximately 707,000 and 17 homicides in 2001. Six of these 17 homicides took place in poor East Palo Alto, which had a population of roughly 30,000. So, while East Palo Alto accounted for a mere 4.2% of the population, about one-third of the homicides took place there.\nThere are conflicting opinions on the number of federal crimes, but many have argued that there has been explosive growth and it has become overwhelming. In 1982, the U.S. Justice Department could not come up with a number, but estimated 3,000 crimes in the United States Code. In 1998, the American Bar Association (ABA) said that it was likely much higher than 3,000, but didn't give a specific estimate. In 2008, the Heritage Foundation published a report that put the number at a minimum of 4,450. When staff for a task force of the U.S. House Judiciary Committee asked the Congressional Research Service (CRS) to update its 2008 calculation of criminal offenses in the United States Code in 2013, the CRS responded that they lack the manpower and resources to accomplish the task.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15306167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15306167", "title": "Cèmuhî language", "text": "Cèmuhî language\n\nCemuhî (Camuhi, Camuki, Tyamuhi, Wagap) is an Oceanic language spoken on the island of New Caledonia, in the area of Poindimié, Koné, and Touho. The language has approximately 3,300 speakers and is considered a regional language of France.\n\nCèmuhî has a consonantal distinction of what Rivierre (1980) calls nasal, semi-nasal, and oral consonants. He refers to voiced oral consonants as semi-nasal because they are always prenasalized. \n\nThe chart below shows Cèmuhî vowels, all of which can contrast in both length and nasality. \n\nLike its neighbour Paicî, Cèmuhî is one of the few Austronesian languages which have developed contrastive tone. However, unlike other New Caledonian tonal languages, Cèmuhî has three tonal registers: high, mid, and low tones. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8930667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8930667", "title": "Daniel Adams (director)", "text": "Daniel Adams (director)\n\nDaniel R. Adams is an American feature film director. He is best known for directing and writing the films \"The Lightkeepers,\" starring Richard Dreyfuss and Blythe Danner, and \"The Golden Boys,\" starring David Carradine, Bruce Dern, Rip Torn, Charles Durning, and Mariel Hemingway.\n\nAdams grew up in the Boston area, went to the University of Vermont for two years, from 1980 to 1981, and attended some Harvard Extension School classes in the early 1980s, spokesmen for both schools confirmed. Adams worked for several political campaigns before going into movies. After working in politics, including two gubernatorial campaigns, a race for attorney general, and a presidential campaign, he also garnered valuable film production experience directing television commercials for a Boston advertising agency.\n\nHe then co-wrote and directed his first feature film in 1989, \"A Fool And His Money\" (originally titled, \"Religion, Inc.\"), which starred Sandra Bullock (Adams is credited with casting Ms. Bullock in her first leading role), Jonathan Penner, George Plimpton and Jerzy Kosinski (released through Trimark Pictures - now Lions Gate). He then went on to write and direct his second feature, the critically acclaimed \"Primary Motive\", which starred Judd Nelson, Justine Bateman, Richard Jordan, John Savage and Sally Kirkland, for Twentieth Century Fox. His third feature, which he also wrote and directed, was a comedy entitled, \"The Mouse\", starring Rip Torn and John Savage, and released through Strand Releasing. \"The Mouse\" also received positive reviews throughout the United States and abroad. His film, \"The Golden Boys\", was released through Roadside Attractions and Lions Gate Films in 2009. Also in 2009, he directed the feature film, \"The Lightkeepers\", from a script he wrote. \"Lightkeepers, starring Richard Dreyfuss and Blythe Danner,\" was released through New Films Cinema in the spring of 2010.\n\nAdams is the recipient of numerous awards and honors. His film, \"The Lightkeepers\" was chosen as the closing night film for the Palm Springs International Film Festival, the opening night film for the Boulder International Film Festival, won the \"Golden Angel\" award (best picture) and chosen closing night film at the Los Angeles Chinese-American Film Festival, was named the #2 Best Grown Up Love Story of the Year (2010) by AARP Magazine, and won the 2010 \"best musical score for a comedy\" award by the International Film Music Critics Association. He has also received praise from the actors he has directed. Two-time Academy Award nominated actor Bruce Dern has compared Adams' directing style to Hal Ashby and Alfred Hitchcock, and commented, \"He (Adams) is on the threshold of becoming an extremely interesting commodity in this business because he's really old-school - he's an old-school filmmaker.\" And Academy Award winning actor Richard Dreyfuss has been quoted, \"Daniel is a smart man, who truly understands the old values of filmmaking... He is an excellent writer and perhaps enough people will see The Lightkeepers to appreciate that.\" \n\nAs a novelist, he conceived, edited and contributed to the serial novel, \"Out Of The Fog\", working with a dozen of the nation's best-selling authors. Also a historian, he is writing a biography of American patriot James Otis, Jr.\n\nAdams was indicted in December 2011 on 10 counts of making false tax claims related to two films for which his production company received $4.7 million in tax credits from the state of Massachusetts, which in turn were used toward production expenses on two movies. On April 19, 2012 he pleaded guilty. He has subsequently resumed his career directing movies. His next projects include the gangster drama, \"Curtain of Fire\" and the action film, \"Panama.\" He also signed on to direct the drama, \"Land of the Free.\"\n\nAdams recently completed the film, \"An L.A. Minute\" which he co-wrote with National Lampoon alum Larry \"Ratso\" Sloman. The film is due to be released in theaters in the summer of 2018 through Strand Releasing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12242429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12242429", "title": "Darkhad", "text": "Darkhad\n\nThe Darkhad, Darqads, or Dalhut (Mongolian for \"Untouchables\", \"Protected Ones\", or \"Workmen of Darkhan\") are a subgroup of Mongol people living mainly in northern Mongolia, in the Bayanzürkh, Ulaan-Uul, Renchinlkhümbe, and Tsagaannuur sums of Khövsgöl Province. The Darkhad valley is named after them. The regional variant of Mongol language is the Darkhad dialect. In the 2000 census, 16,268 people identified themselves as Darkhad.\n\nThe Darkhad were originally part of the Oirat or Khotgoid tribes. Between 1549 and 1686, they were subjects of Zasagt Khan aimag and the Khotgoid Altan Khan. In 1786 they became part of the Jebtsundamba Khutuktu's shabi otog. At roughly the same time they became known as \"Black Darkhad\".\n\nIn 1947, 2071 people from 462 households were eligible to be Darkhad. They were liable for maintaining the Great Khan's mausoleum at their own expense prior to the erection of a permanent government-owned structure in 1954–6.\n\nMany Darkhad practise shamanism. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37742526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37742526", "title": "Derwick Associates", "text": "Derwick Associates\n\nDerwick is a Venezuelan energy company specializing in the construction of turn-key power plant projects. Derwick undertook eleven projects that created 1.216MW of new generation capacity for Venezuela.\n\nDerwick's first project was the Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) of Picure Power Plant in Vargas State for 156 MW, awarded by the state-owned Electricidad de Caracas in 2009. It was followed by 11 more contracts from the Venezuelan government through PDVSA, CVG and Corpoelec during the 2009 - 2010 energy crisis in Venezuela. Four contracts were awarded by state-owned Electricidad de Caracas (since December 2011, part of Corpoelec), five by state-owned Petróleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA, with the contract negotiated by Bariven, a division of PDVSA), and one by state-owned Venezuelan Guayana Corporation (CVG). The company's directors are: Edgard Romero Lazo, Iker Candina, Alejandro Betancourt López and Pedro Trebbau López.\n\n\nDerwick´s Turbine Technology Center (TTC) was started by Derwick in 2011 and conceived as a quick response to the technical assistance needs of the country.\n\nIn December 2013, Derwick Associates received the award \"The Best Latin-American Initiative\", given by Capital, Spanish financial magazine The award recognizes the TTC (Technological Center of Turbines) as an important initiative that has helped to improve Venezuela's power system.\n\nIn 2011, Venezuelan newspaper Ultimas Noticias's César Batiz published an investigative series alleging overbilling and odd transactions between BARIVEN and Derwick Associates. The articles alleged that the company had no experience building power plants when it was contracted to build them. A deputy to the National Assembly called for an investigation of how the Derwick contracts were awarded. In 2012, the Derwick articles in Ultimas Noticias won an award for investigative journalism. According to Reporters Without Borders and to the Institute of Press and Society, reporters received \"threats, pressures, bribe offers\" or were banned on Venezuela's internet.\nIn 2012, César Batiz was offered a US$50,000 bribe to stop writing about the Venezuelan electricity industry.\n\nAccording to claims by energy expert José Aguilar, the 40 contracts awarded to various companies, including Derwick, to address the Venezuelan energy crisis were overbilled by billions of dollars. \nDerwick director Edgard Romero Lazo claimed that allegations of overbilling and bribery were \"part of a defamation campaign\" against the company. The company claims that all contracts are available to the public through the National Contractors Registry (RNC).\n\nIn 2013, Derwick was sued in the New York Federal Court by Washington businessman and ex-ambassador Otto Reich, who alleged that Derwick's executives defamed him and caused his consulting business to suffer financial losses, accusing Derwick of falsely stating that he consulted for them. In a separate legal action, Thor Leonardo Halvorssen Mendoza, a human rights lawyer, alleged defamation and sued Derwick and its partners.\n\nBoth suits have been dismissed.\n\nIn August 2014, it was reported in \"The Wall Street Journal\" that Derwick was under preliminary investigations by the United States Department of Justice and Manhattan prosecutors due to bribery allegations and possible banking infractions. ProEnergy Services, an energy company based in Missouri, was also said to be under investigation due to its relationship with Derwick. Manhattan prosecutors were specifically investigating Derwick and ProEnergy Services due to potential violations of New York banking laws. Federal prosecutors, however, are investigating the two companies for potential breaches of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, \"which prohibits offering foreign government officials improper payments in exchange for a business advantage\", with prosecutors suspicious of the potentially inflated prices used by Derwick and ProEnergy Services for the Venezuelan government that possibly showed raised prices to cover acts of bribery.\n\nIn March 2016, Derwick's activities were investigated by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York. Switzerland's Federal Office of Justice confirmed that 18 Swiss banks, following the measures of mutual assistance, agreed to turn over any existing bank records they would have involving representatives of the company, the first official statement acknowledging the investigation against Derwick by the United State Department of Justice. According to a Derwick spokesman, the investigation was suspended after the Justice Department reviewed its bank records, though the Department of Justice did not confirm this.\n\n"}
{"id": "22193722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22193722", "title": "Deuce 7", "text": "Deuce 7\n\nDeuce 7 (also known as Deuce Seven, Twenty Seven, 27) is the pseudonym of an American artist based in Dunsmuir, California.\n\nDeuce 7 has been a railfan (trainspotter) since his early days, and eventually began freighthopping as a means of transport as well as to spread his work beyond the Minneapolis area. His love of trains and freighthopping strongly influences his art. Locomotives, freight cars, and railyard denizens are recurrent motifs in his work. He calls the west coast home, but his monikers can be seen on train cars throughout the United States.\n\nHe got his pseudonym from the markings on an old diesel locomotive, BNSF 6127, signing his work with a \"27\". Eventually it was suggested that he spell the name out \"Deuce 7\". He currently lives in Mt Shasta, California.\n\nDeuce 7 started working as a street artist in the 1990s in Minneapolis. \nSince 2006 has been exhibiting work in a gallery in Minneapolis and later in New York City, Seattle, and other major cities.\n\nDeuce 7 uses aerosol paint, one-shot, and oilbars to create intensely colorful, spidery images of a variety of subjects which he refers to as \"stories\", which include characters he has met on his travels, romantic interests, trains, cityscapes, as well as purely expressive, surrealist images.\n\nHis fine art pieces carry the design hallmarks of his street style, and are also typically rendered with one-shot, ink, watercolor, and/or enamel spray paint. Some pieces utilize mixed media including masks, found objects, and baroque moldings. His pen and ink drawings frequently evoke stark, decaying cityscapes of crumbling tenement buildings patrolled by strange vehicles and airborne creatures.\n\n"}
{"id": "69415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69415", "title": "Economic growth", "text": "Economic growth\n\nEconomic growth is the increase in the inflation-adjusted market value of the goods and services produced by an economy over time. It is conventionally measured as the percent rate of increase in real gross domestic product, or real GDP.\n\nGrowth is usually calculated in \"real\" terms - i.e., inflation-adjusted terms – to eliminate the distorting effect of inflation on the price of goods produced. Measurement of economic growth uses national income accounting. Since economic growth is measured as the annual percent change of gross domestic product (GDP), it has all the advantages and drawbacks of that measure. The economic growth rates of nations are commonly compared using the ratio of the GDP to population or per-capita income.\n\nThe \"rate of economic growth\" refers to the geometric annual rate of growth in GDP between the first and the last year over a period of time. This growth rate is the trend in the average level of GDP over the period, which ignores the fluctuations in the GDP around this trend.\n\nAn increase in economic growth caused by more efficient use of inputs (increased productivity of labor, physical capital, energy or materials) is referred to as \"intensive growth\". GDP growth caused only by increases in the amount of inputs available for use (increased population, new territory) is called \"extensive growth\".\n\nDevelopment of new goods and services also creates economic growth.\n\n The economic growth rate is calculated from data on GDP estimated by countries' statistical agencies. The rate of growth of GDP per capita is calculated from data on GDP and people for the initial and final periods included in the analysis of the analyst.\n\nIn national income accounting, per capita output can be calculated using the following factors: output per unit of labor input (labor productivity), hours worked (intensity), the percentage of the working age population actually working (participation rate) and the proportion of the working-age population to the total population (demographics). \"The rate of change of GDP/population is the sum of the rates of change of these four variables plus their cross products.\"\n\nIncreases in labor productivity (the ratio of the value of output to labor input) have historically been the most important source of real per capita economic growth. \"In a famous estimate, MIT Professor Robert Solow concluded that technological progress has accounted for 80 percent of the long-term rise in U.S. per capita income, with increased investment in capital explaining only the remaining 20 percent.\"\n\nIncreases in productivity lower the real cost of goods. Over the 20th century the real price of many goods fell by over 90%.\n\nEconomic growth has traditionally been attributed to the accumulation of human and physical capital and the increase in productivity and creation of new goods arising from technological innovation. Further division of labour (specialization) is also fundamental to rising productivity.\n\nBefore industrialization technological progress resulted in an increase in the population, which was kept in check by food supply and other resources, which acted to limit per capita income, a condition known as the Malthusian trap. The rapid economic growth that occurred during the Industrial Revolution was remarkable because it was in excess of population growth, providing an escape from the Malthusian trap. Countries that industrialized eventually saw their population growth slow down, a phenomenon known as the demographic transition.\n\nIncreases in productivity are the major factor responsible for per capita economic growth – this has been especially evident since the mid-19th century. Most of the economic growth in the 20th century was due to increased output per unit of labor, materials, energy, and land (less input per widget). The balance of the growth in output has come from using more inputs. Both of these changes increase output. The increased output included more of the same goods produced previously and new goods and services.\n\nDuring the Industrial Revolution, mechanization began to replace hand methods in manufacturing, and new processes streamlined production of chemicals, iron, steel, and other products. Machine tools made the economical production of metal parts possible, so that parts could be interchangeable. See: Interchangeable parts.\n\nDuring the Second Industrial Revolution, a major factor of productivity growth was the substitution of inanimate power for human and animal labor. Also there was a great increase in power as steam powered electricity generation and internal combustion supplanted limited wind and water power. Since that replacement, the great expansion of total power was driven by continuous improvements in energy conversion efficiency. Other major historical sources of productivity were automation, transportation infrastructures (canals, railroads, and highways), new materials (steel) and power, which includes steam and internal combustion engines and electricity. Other productivity improvements included mechanized agriculture and scientific agriculture including chemical fertilizers and livestock and poultry management, and the Green Revolution. Interchangeable parts made with machine tools powered by electric motors evolved into mass production, which is universally used today.\nGreat sources of productivity improvement in the late 19th century were railroads, steam ships, horse-pulled reapers and combine harvesters, and steam-powered factories. The invention of processes for making cheap steel were important for many forms of mechanization and transportation. By the late 19th century both prices and weekly work hours fell because less labor, materials, and energy were required to produce and transport goods. However, real wages rose, allowing workers to improve their diet, buy consumer goods and afford better housing.\n\nMass production of the 1920s created overproduction, which was arguably one of several causes of the Great Depression of the 1930s. Following the Great Depression, economic growth resumed, aided in part by increased demand for existing goods and services, such as automobiles, telephones, radios, electricity and household appliances. New goods and services included television, air conditioning and commercial aviation (after 1950), creating enough new demand to stabilize the work week. The building of highway infrastructures also contributed to post World War II growth, as did capital investments in manufacturing and chemical industries. The post World War II economy also benefited from the discovery of vast amounts of oil around the world, particularly in the Middle East. By John W. Kendrick’s estimate, three-quarters of increase in U.S. per capita GDP from 1889 to 1957 was due to increased productivity.\n\nEconomic growth in the United States slowed down after 1973. In contrast growth in Asia has been strong since then, starting with Japan and spreading to Korea, China, the Indian subcontinent and other parts of Asia. In 1957 South Korea had a lower per capita GDP than Ghana, and by 2008 it was 17 times as high as Ghana's. The Japanese economic growth has slackened considerably since the late 1980s.\n\nProductivity in the United States grew at an increasing rate throughout the 19th century and was most rapid in the early to middle decades of the 20th century. US productivity growth spiked towards the end of the century in 1996–2004, due to an acceleration in the rate of technological innovation known as Moore's law. After 2004 U.S. productivity growth returned to the low levels of 1972–96.\n\nThe work week declined considerably over the 19th century. By the 1920s the average work week in the U.S. was 49 hours, but the work week was reduced to 40 hours (after which overtime premium was applied) as part of the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933.\n\nDemographic factors may influence growth by changing the employment to population ratio and the labor force participation rate. Industrialization creates a demographic transition in which birth rates decline and the average age of the population increases.\n\nWomen with fewer children and better access to market employment tend to join the labor force in higher percentages. There is a reduced demand for child labor and children spend more years in school. The increase in the percentage of women in the labor force in the U.S. contributed to economic growth, as did the entrance of the baby boomers into the workforce. See: Spending wave\n\n“As institutions influence behavior and incentives in real life, they forge the success or failure of nations.”\n\nIn economics and economic history, the transition to capitalism from earlier economic systems was enabled by the adoption of government policies that facilitated commerce and gave individuals more personal and economic freedom. These included new laws favorable to the establishment of business, including contract law and laws providing for the protection of private property, and the abolishment of anti-usury laws. When property rights are less certain, transaction costs can increase, hindering economic development. Enforcement of contractual rights is necessary for economic development because it determines the rate and direction of investments. When the rule of law is absent or weak, the enforcement of property rights depends on threats of violence, which causes bias against new firms because they can not demonstrate reliability to their customers.\n\nMuch of this literature was built on the success story of the British state that after the Glorious Revolution of 1688 combined high fiscal capacity with constraints on the power of the king generating some respect for the rule of law. However, others have questioned that this institutional formula is not so easily replicable elsewhere as a change in the Constitution—and the type of institutions created by that change—does not necessarily create a change in political power if the economic powers of that society are not aligned with the new set of rule of law institutions. In England, a dramatic increase in the state's fiscal capacity followed the creation of constraints on the crown, but elsewhere in Europe, increases in state capacity happened before major rule of law reforms.\n\nThere are many different ways through which states achieved state (fiscal) capacity and this different capacity accelerated or hindered their economic development. Thanks to the underlying homogeneity of its land and people, England was able to achieve a unified legal and fiscal system since the Middle Ages that enabled it to substantially increase the taxes it raised after 1689. On the other hand, the French experience of state building faced much stronger resistance from local feudal powers keeping it legally and fiscally fragmented until the French Revolution despite significant increases in state capacity during the seventeenth century. Furthermore, Prussia and the Habsburg empire—much more heterogeneous states than England—were able to increase state capacity during the eighteenth century without constraining the powers of the executive. Nevertheless, it is unlikely that a country will generate institutions that respect property rights and the rule of law without having had first intermediate fiscal and political institutions that create incentives for elites to support them. Many of these intermediate level institutions relied on informal private-order arrangements that combined with public-order institutions associated with states, to lay the foundations of modern rule of law states.\n\nIn many poor and developing countries much land and housing are held outside the formal or legal property ownership registration system. In many urban areas the poor \"invade\" private or government land to build their houses, so they do not hold title to these properties. Much unregistered property is held in informal form through various property associations and other arrangements. Reasons for extra-legal ownership include excessive bureaucratic red tape in buying property and building. In some countries it can take over 200 steps and up to 14 years to build on government land. Other causes of extra-legal property are failures to notarize transaction documents or having documents notarized but failing to have them recorded with the official agency.\n\nNot having clear legal title to property limits its potential to be used as collateral to secure loans, depriving many poor countries one of their most important potential sources of capital. Unregistered businesses and lack of accepted accounting methods are other factors that limit potential capital.\n\nBusinesses and individuals participating in unreported business activity and owners of unregistered property face costs such as bribes and pay-offs that offset much of any taxes avoided.\n\n\"Democracy Does Cause Growth\", according to Acemoglu et al. Specifically, \"democracy increases future GDP by encouraging investment, increasing schooling, inducing economic reforms, improving public goods provision, and reducing social unrest.\"\n\nPolicymakers and scholars frequently emphasize the importance of entrepreneurship for economic growth. However, surprisingly few research empirically examine and quantify entrepreneurship's impact on growth. This is due to endogeneity - forces that drive economic growth also drive entrepreneurship. In other words, the empirical analysis of the impact of entrepreneurship on growth is difficult because of the joint determination of entrepreneurship and economic growth. A few papers use quasi-experimental designs, and have found that entrepreneurship and the density of small businesses indeed have a causal impact on regional growth.\n\nCapital in economics ordinarily refers to physical capital, which consists of structures (largest component of physical capital) and equipment used in business (machinery, factory equipment, computers and office equipment, construction equipment, business vehicles, medical equipment, etc.). Up to a point increases in the amount of capital per worker are an important cause of economic output growth. Capital is subject to diminishing returns because of the amount that can be effectively invested and because of the growing burden of depreciation.\n\nIn the development of economic theory the distribution of income was considered to be between labor and the owners of land and capital.\n\nIn recent decades there have been several Asian countries with high rates of economic growth driven by capital investment.\n\nAnother major cause of economic growth is the introduction of new products and services and the improvement of existing products. New products create demand, which is necessary to offset the decline in employment that occurs through labor-saving technology (and to a lesser extent employment declines due to savings in energy and materials). In the US by 2013 about 60% of consumer spending was for goods and services that did not exist in 1869. Also, the creation of new services has been more important than invention of new goods.\n\nEconomic growth in the U.S. and other developed countries went through phases that affected growth through changes in the labor force participation rate and the relative sizes of economic sectors. The transition from an agricultural economy to manufacturing increased the size of the sector with high output per hour (the high-productivity manufacturing sector), while reducing the size of the sector with lower output per hour (the lower productivity agricultural sector). Eventually high productivity growth in manufacturing reduced the sector size, as prices fell and employment shrank relative to other sectors. The service and government sectors, where output per hour and productivity growth is low, saw increases in their shares of the economy and employment during the 1990s. The public sector has since contracted, while the service economy expanded in the 2000s.\n\nIn classical (Ricardian) economics, the theory of production and the theory of growth are based on the theory or law of variable proportions, whereby increasing either of the factors of production (labor or capital), while holding the other constant and assuming no technological change, will increase output, but at a diminishing rate that eventually will approach zero. These concepts have their origins in Thomas Malthus’s theorizing about agriculture. Malthus's examples included the number of seeds harvested relative to the number of seeds planted (capital) on a plot of land and the size of the harvest from a plot of land versus the number of workers employed. See also Diminishing returns.\n\nCriticisms of classical growth theory are that technology, an important factor in economic growth, is held constant and that economies of scale are ignored.\n\nAccording to Harrod, the natural growth rate is the maximum rate of growth allowed by the increase of variables like population growth, technological improvement and growth in natural resources.\n\nIn fact, the natural growth rate is the highest attainable growth rate which would bring about the fullest possible employment of the resources existing in the economy.\n\nRobert Solow and Trevor Swan developed what eventually became the main model used in growth economics in the 1950s. This model assumes that there are diminishing returns to capital and labor. Capital accumulates through investment, but its level or stock continually decreases due to depreciation. Due to the diminishing returns to capital, with increases in capital/worker and absent technological progress, economic output/worker eventually reaches a point where capital per worker and economic output/worker remain constant because annual investment in capital equals annual depreciation. This condition is called the 'steady state'.\n\nIn the Solow–Swan model if productivity increases through technological progress, then output/worker increases even when the economy is in the steady state. If productivity increases at a constant rate, output/worker also increases at a related steady-state rate. As a consequence, growth in the model can occur either by increasing the share of GDP invested or through technological progress. But at whatever share of GDP invested, capital/worker eventually converges on the steady state, leaving the growth rate of output/worker determined only by the rate of technological progress. As a consequence, with world technology available to all and progressing at a constant rate, all countries have the same steady state rate of growth. Each country has a different level of GDP/worker determined by the share of GDP it invests, but all countries have the same rate of economic growth. Implicitly in this model rich countries are those that have invested a high share of GDP for a long time. Poor countries can become rich by increasing the share of GDP they invest. One important prediction of the model, mostly borne out by the data, is that of \"conditional convergence\"; the idea that poor countries will grow faster and catch up with rich countries as long as they have similar investment (and saving) rates and access to the same technology.\n\nThe Solow–Swan model is considered an \"exogenous\" growth model because it does not explain why countries invest different shares of GDP in capital nor why technology improves over time. Instead the rate of investment and the rate of technological progress are exogenous. The value of the model is that it predicts the pattern of economic growth once these two rates are specified. Its failure to explain the determinants of these rates is one of its limitations.\n\nAlthough the rate of investment in the model is exogenous, under certain conditions the model implicitly predicts convergence in the rates of investment across countries. In a global economy with a global financial capital market, financial capital flows to the countries with the highest return on investment. In the Solow-Swan model countries with less capital/worker (poor countries) have a higher return on investment due to the diminishing returns to capital. As a consequence, capital/worker and output/worker in a global financial capital market should converge to the same level in all countries. Since historically financial capital has not flowed to the countries with less capital/worker, the basic Solow–Swan model has a conceptual flaw. Beginning in the 1990s, this flaw has been addressed by adding additional variables to the model that can explain why some countries are less productive than others and, therefore, do not attract flows of global financial capital even though they have less (physical) capital/worker.\n\nUnsatisfied with the assumption of exogenous technological progress in the Solow–Swan model, economists worked to \"endogenize\" (i.e., explain it \"from within\" the models) productivity growth in the 1980s; the resulting endogenous growth theory, most notably advanced by Robert Lucas, Jr. and his student Paul Romer, includes a mathematical explanation of technological advancement. This model also incorporated a new concept of human capital, the skills and knowledge that make workers productive. Unlike physical capital, human capital has increasing rates of return. Research done in this area has focused on what increases human capital (e.g. education) or technological change (e.g. innovation).\n\nUnified growth theory was developed by Oded Galor and his co-authors to address the inability of endogenous growth theory to explain key empirical regularities in the growth processes of individual economies and the world economy as a whole. Endogenous growth theory was satisfied with accounting for empirical regularities in the growth process of developed economies over the last hundred years. As a consequence, it was not able to explain the qualitatively different empirical regularities that characterized the growth process over longer time horizons in both developed and less developed economies. Unified growth theories are endogenous growth theories that are consistent with the entire process of development, and in particular the transition from the epoch of Malthusian stagnation that had characterized most of the process of development to the contemporary era of sustained economic growth.\n\nOne popular theory in the 1940s was the big push model, which suggested that countries needed to jump from one stage of development to another through a virtuous cycle, in which large investments in infrastructure and education coupled with private investments would move the economy to a more productive stage, breaking free from economic paradigms appropriate to a lower productivity stage. The idea was revived and formulated rigorously, in the late 1980s by Kevin Murphy, Andrei Shleifer and Robert Vishny.\n\nSchumpeterian growth is an economic theory named after the 20th-century Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter. The approach explains growth as a consequence of innovation and a process of creative destruction that captures the dual nature of technological progress: in terms of creation, entrepreneurs introduce new products or processes in the hope that they will enjoy temporary monopoly-like profits as they capture markets. In doing so, they make old technologies or products obsolete. This can be seen as an \"annulment\" of previous technologies, which makes them obsolete, and \"destroys the rents generated by previous innovations.\" A major model that illustrates Schumpeterian growth is the Aghion–Howitt model.\n\nAccording to Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James Robinson, the positive correlation between high income and cold climate is a by-product of history. Europeans adopted very different colonization policies in different colonies, with different associated institutions. In places where these colonizers faced high mortality rates (e.g., due to the presence of tropical diseases), they could not settle permanently, and they were thus more likely to establish extractive institutions, which persisted after independence; in places where they could settle permanently (e.g. those with temperate climates), they established institutions with this objective in mind and modeled them after those in their European homelands. In these 'neo-Europes' better institutions in turn produced better development outcomes. Thus, although other economists focus on the identity or type of legal system of the colonizers to explain institutions, these authors look at the environmental conditions in the colonies to explain institutions. For instance, former colonies have inherited corrupt governments and geopolitical boundaries (set by the colonizers) that are not properly placed regarding the geographical locations of different ethnic groups, creating internal disputes and conflicts that hinder development. In another example, societies that emerged in colonies without solid native populations established better property rights and incentives for long-term investment than those where native populations were large.\n\nMany theoretical and empirical analyses of economic growth attribute a major role to a country's level of human capital, defined as the skills of the population or the work force. Human capital has been included in both neoclassical and endogenous growth models.\n\nA country's level of human capital is difficult to measure, since it is created at home, at school, and on the job. Economists have attempted to measure human capital using numerous proxies, including the population's level of literacy, its level of numeracy, its level of book production/capita, its average level of formal schooling, its average test score on international tests, and its cumulative depreciated investment in formal schooling. The most commonly-used measure of human capital is the level (average years) of school attainment in a country, building upon the data development of Robert Barro and Jong-Wha Lee. This measure is widely used because Barro and Lee provide data for numerous countries in five-year intervals for a long period of time.\n\nOne problem with the schooling attainment measure is that the amount of human capital acquired in a year of schooling is not the same at all levels of schooling and is not the same in all countries. This measure also presumes that human capital is only developed in formal schooling, contrary to the extensive evidence that families, neighborhoods, peers, and health also contribute to the development of human capital. Despite these potential limitations, Theodore Breton has shown that this measure can represent human capital in log-linear growth models because across countries GDP/adult has a log-linear relationship to average years of schooling, which is consistent with the log-linear relationship between workers' personal incomes and years of schooling in the Mincer model.\n\nEric Hanushek and Dennis Kimko introduced measures of students' mathematics and science skills from international assessments into growth analysis. They found that this measure of human capital was very significantly related to economic growth. Eric Hanushek and Ludger Wößmann have extended this analysis. Theodore Breton shows that the correlation between economic growth and students' average test scores in Hanushek and Wößmann's analyses is actually due to the relationship in countries with less than eight years of schooling. He shows that economic growth is not correlated with average scores in more educated countries. Hanushek and Wößmann further investigate whether the relationship of knowledge capital to economic growth is causal. They show that the level of students' cognitive skills can explain the slow growth in Latin America and the rapid growth in East Asia.\n\nEnergy economic theories hold that rates of energy consumption and energy efficiency are linked causally to economic growth. A fixed relationship between historical rates of global energy consumption and the historical accumulation of global economic wealth has been observed. Increases in energy efficiency were a portion of the increase in Total factor productivity. Some of the most technologically important innovations in history involved increases in energy efficiency. These include the great improvements in efficiency of conversion of heat to work, the reuse of heat, the reduction in friction and the transmission of power, especially through electrification.\n\"Electricity consumption and economic growth are strongly correlated\". \"Per capita electric consumption correlates almost perfectly with economic development.\"\n\nOver long periods of time, even small rates of growth, such as a 2% annual increase, have large effects. For example, the United Kingdom experienced a 1.97% average annual increase in its inflation-adjusted GDP between 1830 and 2008. In 1830, the GDP was 41,373 million pounds. It grew to 1,330,088 million pounds by 2008. A growth rate that averaged 1.97% over 178 years resulted in a 32-fold increase in GDP by 2008.\n\nThe large impact of a relatively small growth rate over a long period of time is due to the power of exponential growth. The rule of 72, a mathematical result, states that if something grows at the rate of x% per year, then its level will double every 72/x years. For example, a growth rate of 2.5% per annum leads to a doubling of the GDP within 28.8 years, whilst a growth rate of 8% per year leads to a doubling of GDP within 9 years. Thus, a small difference in economic growth rates between countries can result in very different standards of living for their populations if this small difference continues for many years.\n\nOne theory that relates economic growth with quality of life is the \"Threshold Hypothesis\", which states that economic growth up to a point brings with it an increase in quality of life. But at that point – called the threshold point – further economic growth can bring with it a deterioration in quality of life. This results in an upside-down-U-shaped curve, where the vertex of the curve represents the level of growth that should be targeted. Happiness has been shown to increase with a higher GDP per capita, at least up to a level of $15,000 per person.\n\nEconomic growth has the indirect potential to alleviate poverty, as a result of a simultaneous increase in employment opportunities and increased labor productivity. A study by researchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) of 24 countries that experienced growth found that in 18 cases, poverty was alleviated.\n\nIn some instances, quality of life factors such as healthcare outcomes and educational attainment, as well as social and political liberties, do not improve as economic growth occurs.\n\nProductivity increases do not always lead to increased wages, as can be seen in the United States, where the gap between productivity and wages has been rising since the 1980s.\n\nEconomists distinguish between short-run economic changes in production and long-run economic growth. Short-run variation in economic growth is termed the \"business cycle\". Generally, economists attribute the ups and downs in the business cycle to fluctuations in aggregate demand. In contrast, economic growth is concerned with the long-run trend in production due to structural causes such as technological growth and factor accumulation.\n\nSome theories developed in the 1970s suggested possible avenues through which inequality may have a positive effect on economic development. Savings by the wealthy, if these increase with inequality, were thought to offset reduced consumer demand.\n\nLater analysis, such as the political economy approach, developed by Alesina and Rodrik (1994) and Persson and Tabellini (1994), stressed the negative impacts of inequality on economic development; inequality generates a pressure to adopt redistributive policies that have an adverse effect on investment and economic growth. However, empirical tests of an extended version of Alesina and Rodrik's model by Li and Zou found that \"income inequality is positively, and most of the time significantly, associated with economic growth\".\n\nThe credit market imperfection approach, developed by Galor and Zeira (1993), argued that inequality in the presence of credit market imperfections has a long lasting detrimental effect on human capital formation and economic development.\n\nA study by Perotti (1996) showed that in accordance with the credit market imperfection approach, inequality is associated with lower level of human capital formation (education, experience, apprenticeship) and higher level of fertility, while lower level of human capital is associated with lower growth and lower levels of economic growth. In contrast, his examination of the political economy channel found no support for the political economy mechanism.\n\nA 1999 review stated that high inequality lowers growth, perhaps because it increases social and political instability; however, changes in the degree of inequality have a relatively minor effect on growth.\n\nResearch by Robert Barro, found that there is \"little overall relation between income inequality and rates of growth and investment\". According to Barro, high levels of inequality reduce growth in relatively poor countries but encourage growth in richer countries. Princeton economist Roland Benabou's research shows that inequality does not matter per se to growth, but \"inequality in the relative distribution of earnings and political power\" does matter.\n\nAccording to Andrew Berg and Jonathan Ostry (2011) of the International Monetary Fund, inequality in wealth and income is negatively correlated with subsequent economic growth. Likewise, economists Dierk Herzer and Sebastian Vollmer found that increased income inequality reduces economic growth, but growth itself also increases income inequality in the long run.\n\nIn 2013, French economist Thomas Piketty postulated that in periods when the average annual rate on return on investment in capital (\"r\") exceeds the average annual growth in economic output (\"g\"), the rate of inequality will increase. According to Piketty, this is the case because wealth that is already held or inherited, which is expected to grow at the rate \"r\", will grow at a rate faster than wealth accumulated through labor, which is more closely tied to \"g\". An advocate of reducing inequality levels, Piketty suggests levying a global wealth tax in order to reduce the divergence in wealth caused by inequality.\n\nWhile acknowledging the central role economic growth can potentially play in human development, poverty reduction and the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, it is becoming widely understood amongst the development community that special efforts must be made to ensure poorer sections of society are able to participate in economic growth. The effect of economic growth on poverty reduction – the growth elasticity of poverty – can depend on the existing level of inequality. For instance, with low inequality a country with a growth rate of 2% per head and 40% of its population living in poverty, can halve poverty in ten years, but a country with high inequality would take nearly 60 years to achieve the same reduction. In the words of the Secretary General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon: \"While economic growth is necessary, it is not sufficient for progress on reducing poverty.\"\n\nCritics such as the Club of Rome argue that a narrow view of economic growth, combined with globalization, is creating a scenario where we could see a systemic collapse of our planet's natural resources.\nConcerns about negative environmental effects of growth have prompted some people to advocate lower levels of growth, or the abandoning of growth altogether. In academia, concepts like uneconomic growth, steady-state economy and degrowth have been developed in order to achieve this. In politics, green parties embrace the Global Greens Charter, recognising that \"... the dogma of economic growth at any cost and the excessive and wasteful use of natural resources without considering Earth's carrying capacity, are causing extreme deterioration in the environment and a massive extinction of species.\"\n\nThose more optimistic about the environmental impacts of growth believe that, though localized environmental effects may occur, large-scale ecological effects are minor. The argument, as stated by commentator Julian Lincoln Simon, states that if these global-scale ecological effects exist, human ingenuity will find ways to adapt to them.\n\nUp to the present, there is a close correlation between economic growth and the rate of carbon dioxide emissions across nations, although there is also a considerable divergence in carbon intensity (carbon emissions per GDP). Up to the present, there is also a direct relation between global economic wealth and the rate of global emissions. The Stern Review notes that the prediction that, \"Under business as usual, global emissions will be sufficient to propel greenhouse gas concentrations to over 550 ppm by 2050 and over 650–700 ppm by the end of this century is robust to a wide range of changes in model assumptions.\" The scientific consensus is that planetary ecosystem functioning without incurring dangerous risks requires stabilization at 450–550 ppm.\n\nAs a consequence, growth-oriented environmental economists propose government intervention into switching sources of energy production, favouring wind, solar, hydroelectric, and nuclear. This would largely confine use of fossil fuels to either domestic cooking needs (such as for kerosene burners) or where carbon capture and storage technology can be cost-effective and reliable. The Stern Review, published by the United Kingdom Government in 2006, concluded that an investment of 1% of GDP (later changed to 2%) would be sufficient to avoid the worst effects of climate change, and that failure to do so could risk climate-related costs equal to 20% of GDP. Because carbon capture and storage are as yet widely unproven, and its long term effectiveness (such as in containing carbon dioxide 'leaks') unknown, and because of current costs of alternative fuels, these policy responses largely rest on faith of technological change.\n\nBritish conservative politician and journalist Nigel Lawson has deemed carbon emission trading an 'inefficient system of rationing'. Instead, he favours carbon taxes to make full use of the efficiency of the market. However, in order to avoid the migration of energy-intensive industries, the whole world should impose such a tax, not just Britain, Lawson pointed out. There is no point in taking the lead if nobody follows suit.\n\nMany earlier predictions of resource depletion, such as Thomas Malthus' 1798 predictions about approaching famines in Europe, \"The Population Bomb\" (1968), and the Simon–Ehrlich wager (1980) have not materialized. Diminished production of most resources has not occurred so far, one reason being that advancements in technology and science have allowed some previously unavailable resources to be produced. In some cases, substitution of more abundant materials, such as plastics for cast metals, lowered growth of usage for some metals. In the case of the limited resource of land, famine was relieved firstly by the revolution in transportation caused by railroads and steam ships, and later by the Green Revolution and chemical fertilizers, especially the Haber process for ammonia synthesis.\n\nResource quality is composed of a variety of factors including ore grades, location, altitude above or below sea level, proximity to railroads, highways, water supply and climate. These factors affect the capital and operating cost of extracting resources. In the case of minerals, lower grades of mineral resources are being extracted, requiring higher inputs of capital and energy for both extraction and processing. Copper ore grades have declined significantly over the last century. Another example is natural gas from shale and other low permeability rock, which can be developed with much higher inputs of energy, capital, and materials than conventional gas in previous decades. Offshore oil and gas have exponentially increased cost as water depth increases.\n\nSome physical scientists like Al Bartlett regard continuous economic growth as unsustainable. Several factors may constrain economic growth – for example: finite, peaked, or depleted resources.\n\nIn 1972, \"The Limits to Growth\" study modeled limitations to infinite growth; originally ridiculed, these models have been validated and updated.\n\n\"Malthusians\" such as William R. Catton, Jr. are skeptical of technological advances that improve resource availability. Such advances and increases in efficiency, they suggest, merely accelerate the drawing down of finite resources. Catton claims that increasing rates of resource extraction are \"...stealing ravenously from the future\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34561138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34561138", "title": "Environmental profit and loss account", "text": "Environmental profit and loss account\n\nAn environmental profit and loss account (E P&L) is a company's monetary valuation and analysis of its environmental impacts including its business operations and its supply chain from cradle-to-gate.\nAn E P&L internalizes externalities and monetizes the cost of business to nature by accounting for the ecosystem services a business depends on to operate in addition to the cost of direct and indirect negative impacts on the environment. The primary purpose of an E P&L is to allow managers and stakeholders to see the magnitude of these impacts and where in the supply chain they occur.\n\nThe E P&L analysis provides a metric to measure and monitor the footprint of the company's operations and suppliers all the way to the initial raw materials. It is a tool to build awareness of the importance of nature to the sustainability of businesses; enhance visibility across a company's supply chain and deepen understanding to focus sustainability efforts and implement better-informed operational decisions; improve specificity for risk management regarding environmental dependencies and impacts; and support a more holistic view of a company's performance, while bringing clarity and transparency to stakeholders at all levels and identifying new opportunities to enhance the sustainability of a company's products.\n\nConceived by PUMA Chairman, Jochen Zeitz, and launched by Sportlifestyle company PUMA and its parent company's sustainability initiative (PPR HOME), the first-ever E P&L was conducted on 2010 data and released in two phases. In May 2011 the valuation of PUMA's 2010 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) and water usage was announced, followed in November 2011, by PUMA's overall E P&L, which also included valuation results for other forms of air pollution, land conversion and waste.\n\nSimultaneously, the PPR Group announced in November 2011 that a Group E P&L would be implemented across its Luxury and Sport & Lifestyle brands by 2015.\n\nThe E P&L and the associated methodology were developed with the support of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Trucost PLC. The E P&L used existing input-output models and developed new valuation methodologies, building on a large volume of work in the fields of environmental and natural resource economics such as TEEB, the UN study on The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity. \n\nKering, the parent company for Puma, has released its Environmental Profit and Loss Accounting methodology in an open source mode. Novo Nordisk is another company that has released its environmental profit and loss account and methodology report. The 2017 annual report of Philips mentioned that the company had an environmental impact of Euro 7.2 billion for that year. This assessment was made through an Environmental Profit and Loss Accounting process. The company mentioned that this monetary value has not considered various practices that has environmental impacts.\n\nThe UK government used the PUMA E P&L as a case study for sustainable business in the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affair (DEFRA) Natural Environment White Paper in June 2011. In July 2011, Pavan Sukhdev who was the Study Leader of TEEB and the Special Advisor and Head of UNEP's Green Economy Initiative, referred to the PUMA E P&L in his TED presentation.\nSustainability authority, John Elkington includes the PUMA E P&L in his \"The Future Quotient: 50 Stars in Seriously Long-Term Innovation\". In the October issue of \"The Harvard Business Review\" the PUMA E P&L is included in \"The Sustainable Economy\" by Yvon Chouinard, Jib Ellison, and Rick Ridgeway.\nIn the Winter 2012 issue, the \"Stanford Social Innovation Review\" published \"Connecting Heart to Head\" by Ram Nidumolu, Kevin Kramer, & Jochen Zeitz. The PUMA E P&L is included as a business case study. In December 2011, Jochen Zeitz spoke at His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales' Accounting For Sustainability Forum about the PUMA E P &L.\n\nPuma's EP&L accounting process has influenced other companies attempting natural capital accounting . A smartphone app has been made available, free of cost, to help students of design and fashion, to understand the environmental impacts.\n\nAn assessment report indicated that preparing an EP&L report can be expensive, while benefits being derived from the process is substantial. EP&L Accounting has also been considered as a first step in the process of ensuring that prices reflect the use of environmental goods and services.\n\n"}
{"id": "16419036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16419036", "title": "Filipinos in Kuwait", "text": "Filipinos in Kuwait\n\nFilipinos in Kuwait are either migrants from or descendants of the Philippines living in Kuwait. As of 2012, there are roughly 180,000 of these Filipinos in Kuwait. Most people in the Filipino community are migrant workers, and approximately 60% of Filipinos in Kuwait are employed as domestic workers.\n\nIn 2016, Kuwait was the sixth-largest destination of Overseas Filipino workers, with 90,000 hired or rehired in the nation in 2011, and accordingly Kuwait has been an important source of remittances back to the Philippines, with over $105 million USD being remitted in 2009. Nine Filipino banks have correspondent accounts with banks in Kuwait to allow for remittance transfers.\n\nThere is a Filipino Worker's Resource Center (FWRC) located in Jabriya, and it provides refuge for Filipino workers in Kuwait who have \"[experienced] various forms of maltreatment from their employers such as fatigue, non-payment of salaries,\" as well as \"lack of food [and] physical, verbal and sexual abuse\". Through assistance from the FWRC, the Philippine Embassy in Kuwait, the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, and Overseas Workers' Welfare Administration, hundreds of Filipinos in Kuwait have been repatriated to the Philippines due to these issues.\n\nFilipino domestic servants in Kuwait are the most expensive overseas servants that can be hired, due to a minimum wage requirement by the Filipino government as well as high costs from recruitment agencies. Minimum monthly wage of a Filipino maid is KWD 110 per month ($365 USD), with an initial recruitment cost of KWD 850 ($2825 USD), with the price varying based on previous experience.\n\nKuwait had the largest number of voters registered under the Overseas Absentee Voting Act eligible to vote in the 2013 Philippine general election. Philippine holidays such as Independence Day, commemorating the Philippine Declaration of Independence, are celebrated in Kuwait. Religious events, such as the Catholic festivities honoring Our Lady of Peñafrancia as well as the Muslim holiday Eid al-Adha are celebrated by their respective Filipino Catholic and Filipino Muslim communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "52471183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52471183", "title": "Georgian nationalism", "text": "Georgian nationalism\n\nThe beginning of Georgian nationalism can be traced to the middle of the 19th century, when Georgia was part of the Russian Empire. From being more culture-focused in the Imperial Russian and Soviet periods, it went through several phases, evolving into radical ethnocentric in the late 1980s and early in the post-Soviet independence years, and to a more inclusive and civic-oriented form in the mid-1990s.\n\nModern Georgian nationalism emerged in the middle of the 19th century as a reaction to the Russian annexation of fragmented Georgian polities, which terminated their precarious independence, but brought to the Georgians unity under a single authority, relative peace and stability. The first to inspire national revival were aristocratic poets, whose romanticist writings were imbued with patriotic laments. After a series of ill-fated attempts at revolt, especially, after the failed coup plot of 1832, the Georgian elites reconciled with the Russian rule, while their calls for national awakening were rechanneled through cultural efforts. In the 1860s, the new generation of Georgian intellectuals, educated at Russian universities and exposed to European ideas, promoted national culture against assimilation by the Imperial center. Led by the literati such as Ilia Chavchavadze, their program attained more nationalistic colors as the nobility declined and capitalism progressed, further stimulated by the rule of the Russian bureaucracy and economic and demographic dominance of the Armenian middle class in the capital city of Tbilisi. Chavchavadze and his associates called for the unity of all Georgians and put national interests above class and provincial divisions. Their vision did not envisage an outright revolt for independence, but demanded autonomy within the reformed Russian Empire, with greater cultural freedom, promotion of the Georgian language, and support for Georgian educational institutions and the national church, whose independence had been suppressed by the Russian government.\n\nDespite their advocacy of ethnic culture and demographic grievances over Russian and Armenian dominance in Georgia's urban centers, a program of the early Georgian nationalists was inclusive and preferred non-confrontational approach to inter-ethnic issues. Some of them, such as Niko Nikoladze, envisaged the creation of a free, decentralized, and self-governing federation of the Caucasian peoples based on the principle of ethnically proportional representation.\n\nThe idea of Caucasian federation within the reformed Russian state was also voiced by the ideologues of Georgian social democracy, who came to dominate Georgian political landscape by the closing years of the 19th century. Initially, the Georgian Social Democrats were opposed to nationalism and viewed it as a rival ideology, but they remained proponents of self-determination. In the words of the historian Stephen F. Jones, \"it was socialism in Georgian colors with priority given to the defense of national culture.\" The Georgian social-democrats were very active in all-Russian socialist movement and after its split in 1905 sided with the Menshevik faction adhering to relatively liberal ideas of their Western European colleagues.\n\nThe Bolshevik revolution of 1917 was perceived by the Georgian Mensheviks, led by Noe Zhordania, as a breach of links between Russia and Europe. When they declared Georgia an independent democratic republic on 26 May 1918, they viewed the move as a tragic inevitability against the background of unfolding geopolitical realities. \n\nAs the new state faced a series of domestic and international challenges, the internationalist Social-Democratic leadership became more focused on narrower national problems. With this reorientation to a form of nationalism, the Georgian republic became a \"nationalist/socialist hybrid.\" The government's efforts to make education and administration more Georgian drew protests from ethnic minorities, further exacerbated by economic hardship and exploited for their political ends by the Bolsheviks who were opposed to the country's sovereignty. The government's response to dissent, including among the ethnic minorities, such as the Abkhaz and Ossetians, was frequently violent and excessive. The decision to resort to military solutions was driven by security concerns rather than readiness to settle ethnic scores. Overall, the Georgian Mensheviks did not turn to authoritarianism and terror. However, the events of that time played an important role in reinforcing stereotypes on all involved sides in the latter-day ethnic conflicts in Georgia.\n\nAfter the Red Army invasion of Georgia and its sovietization in 1921, followed by suppression of an armed rebellion against the new regime in 1924, many leading nationalist intellectuals went in exile in Europe. In the Soviet Union, Georgian nationalism went underground or was rechanneled into cultural pursuits, becoming focused on the issues of language, promotion of education, protection of old monuments, literature, film, and sports. Any open manifestation of local nationalism was repressed by the Soviet state, but it did provide cultural frameworks and, as part of its policy of korenizatsiya, helped institutionalize the Georgians as a \"titular nationality\" in the Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, allowing Georgia to develop its own national communist elite and cultural intelligentsia. Thus, by maintaining the focus of Georgian nationalism on cultural issues, the Soviet regime was able to prevent it from becoming a political movement until the 1980s \"perestroika\" period.\n\nThe late 1970s saw a re-emergence of Georgian nationalism that clashed with Soviet power. Plans to revise the status of Georgian as the official language of Soviet Georgia were drawn up in the Kremlin in early 1978, but after stiff and unprecedented public resistance the Soviet central government abandoned the plans. At the same time, it also abandoned similar revision plans for the official languages in the Armenian and Azerbaijani SSRs.\n\nGeorgian nationalism was eventually more tolerated during the waning years of the USSR due to Mikhail Gorbachev's Glasnost policy. The Soviet government attempted to counter the Georgian independence movement in the early 1990s with promises of greater decentralisation from Moscow.\n\n"}
{"id": "53002205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53002205", "title": "Glasgow Magdalene Institution", "text": "Glasgow Magdalene Institution\n\nThe Glasgow Magdalene Institution (Glasgow’s Magdalene Institution for the Repression of Vice and Rehabilitation of Penitent Females was its official name) was an asylum in Glasgow, Scotland, initially started in 1812 and was open until it closed in 1958.\n\nThe institution was started in response to the increasing worries of prostitution, the spread of venereal diseases and wavering moral values seen in the country, and sought to \"rescue\" women or girls who were deemed \"prostitutes\" and teach them how to support themselves through industrial training mainly through the laundries.\n\nWith its establishment in 1812 it had originated on Parliamentary Road until it moved to Lochburn Home in 1864 where it remained until its closure. It was non-denominational and was funded by voluntary subscriptions – as well as the income generated from being a working laundry. The women in the asylum were generally termed as prostitutes, however, it should be noted that this term was used in a very loose manner encompassing not only women who sold sex for money but also single mothers, socialists, mill girls and girls dressed 'immorally'.\n\nIn Glasgow, the Magdalene Asylum evolved into the Magdalene Institution with a new Glasgow System created to deal with court appearance of women who refused to be checked for venereal diseases by policemen. The Lock Hospital was set up in Rottenrow Lane in 1805 to treat women with venereal disease. Meanwhile, the Magdalene Institute took women who were free from syphilis, not pregnant, to be newly ‘fallen’ and willing to submit to discipline.\n\nThe Glasgow System, as it became known, saw unprecedented collusion between the local constabulary and the medical authorities. Women under suspicion could be forced to undergo an intimate examination by male police officers; if they showed signs of VD they would be incarcerated in the Lock Hospital without limit of time. Many were never released. The Glasgow system was deemed so successful it was adopted by several cities across Britain. The Lock Hospital didn’t close its doors until 1950.\n\nThe fifth annual report of the Magdalene Institute, written in 1864, said it was of “profound regret an of painful surprise” that the “resorts of profligacy should so much abound” in both Glasgow and Scotland. In Glasgow, wayward girls were placed at the Magdalene Institute by parents or probation officers until 1958.\n\nReactions to the Institution varied over time.\n\nAn advertisement in 1888 claimed: \"nearly 5,000 young women have shared more or less in the benefits of the Institution since 1859. During the same period no fewer than 1,080 young women have been restored to parents or friends, and 942 have been placed in domestic service or other respectable employment, while thirty-two were sent abroad, thus making 2,054 who have been rescued from a life of shame and restored to society, after having received the usual education and training in the Homes\".\n\nThe Institution went unchecked until 1958 – when it was closed down – after the inmates staged a “riot” amid claims of abuse and ill treatment. The girls were all aged between 15 and 19 years of age and none had been convicted of a criminal offence. Despite this police all over the city were hunting for them and newspaper reports called on the public to be vigilant and look out for the girls, distinctive in their blue dresses and white aprons. Each time the girls were rounded up they staged another breakout, some escaping down the fire escape; others staged a rooftop protest. They vowed to keep escaping until their voices were heard. The “riot” lasted for three days. The final breakout occurred during a visit by officials from the Scottish home department who were investigating the series of events. There was an official inquiry into their claims of beatings, bullying and verbal abuse; as of March 2017 no one has been held accountable.\n\nAt their height the Magdalene Asylums, which were run around the world, had 20 refuges in Scotland.\n\nThe first in Edinburgh opened in 1797. In the capital, the charitable organisation, funded by church collections and private donations, opened in the Canongate in the Old Town, a popular location for street prostitutes. In the early 1800s, there were around 200 brothels in Edinburgh. The Magdalene Asylum was “sharply segregated place,” according to Scot-Pep, a sex worker’s rights organisation based in Edinburgh, with prostitutes kept away from those women of a “better order.” Women were kept in solitary confinement for the first three months “to eradicate the taint of moral contagion”.\n\nOne resident of the Edinburgh asylum, Mary Paterson, (originally from Glasgow) was murdered by Burke and Hare shortly after leaving the institution on 8 April 1828.\n\nIn Ireland, the Magdalene Asylums, or Magdalene Laundries, were usually run by Roman Catholic orders and different to the Scottish system. A scandal broke in 1993 after a mass grave containing 155 corpses was found in the convent grounds of one of the laundries in Dublin. A formal state apology was issued in 2013 and a £50 million compensation scheme for survivors of abuse was set up.\n\nThe Glasgow Magdalene Institution has inspired popular culture through a novel like \"Penance\" by Theresa Talbot that was published in October 2015. It is a crime fiction novel based on the Glasgow Magdalene Institution. Theresa Talbot was born and raised in Glasgow to Irish parents and has always had an awareness of the Magdalene Institution. Through initial research for a radio series with the BBC, she began to develop the inspiration and story for her novel. She based the novel as a crime narrative through dramatic licenses to give the women of the Glasgow Magdalene Institution a voice.\n"}
{"id": "19299904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299904", "title": "Greeks in the Czech Republic", "text": "Greeks in the Czech Republic\n\nThere is a small community of Greeks in the Czech Republic. The Greek presence in Czech Republic is dated to the 20th century. Roughly 12,000 Greek citizens, mainly from Greek Macedonia in Northern Greece, who fled from the 1946-1949 Greek Civil War were settled in several formerly German inhabited areas in Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe admission of Greek Communist refugees to Czechoslovakia at the end of the 1946-49 Greek Civil War was facilitated by members of the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) living in exile in Bucharest, Romania. Though they initially expected that the refugees they would soon return to Greece, due to the development of the political situation they could predict no definite end to their stay in Czechoslovakia. As a result, many eventually naturalised as Czechoslovak citizens and generally assimilated, often intermarrying with local Czechs or the small but significant minority of Sudeten Germans allowed to remain in Czechoslovakia following its liberation from Nazi German occupation. In many cases, these Greek refugees were resettled in houses which had formerly been owned by Sudeten Germans and were left unoccupied following the expulsion of Germans from Czechoslovakia. Most were concentrated in or around the towns of Brno (Brünn in German), Ostrava, Opava, and Krnov (Jägendorf in German) in southern Silesia, where Greek farming expertise helped revive agricultural production on lands formerly worked by ethnic Germans. About 5,200 of the migrants consisted of unaccompanied children. The migrants were ethnically heterogeneous, consisting not just of Greek Macedonians, Pontic Greeks, and Caucasus Greeks, as well as Slav-Macedonians, but also Aromanians, Sephardi Jews, and even a few Turkish-speaking Greeks or Urums. \n\nBeginning in 1975, shortly after the overthrow of the Colonels' dictatorship and a programme of political liberalisation in Greece which led to the legalisation of the KKE, several thousand young Greeks, including those born in Czechoslovakia, emigrated to Greece. Older Greeks followed them some years later, after an arrangement was made between the Greek and Czechoslovak governments for them to receive their pensions in Greece. By 1991, there were just 3,443 people in Czechoslovakia who declared Greek ethnicity; almost all of those were in the Czech portion of the country, with just 65 in the Slovak portion. However, many of those who did emigrate to (mainly northern) Greece continued to retain strong links with the Czech Republic, with a few even using their dual Greek-Czech national identitities and contacts to help establish trade links between the two countries.\n\nIn their early days in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, ethnic Greek Macedonian and Slav Macedonian migrants used Greek as their natural lingua franca; however in orphanages which housed unaccompanied child migrants, it was not uncommon for ethnic Greek children to become receptively bilingual in the Slav-Macedonian language spoken by their playmates. In later years, locally born members of the community showed increasing language shift towards Czech, and tended to have a somewhat weaker command of Greek. However, this may also have been a natural consequence of several factors, including: intermarriage with Czechs and Sudeten Germans, the communist Czechoslovak education system's emphasis on Russian as a second language at the expense of providing for minority-language education, and even the fact many ethnic Greek Macedonians residing in Czechoslovakia were actually Pontic Greeks and Caucasus Greeks and so somewhat more comfortable with the Pontic Greek dialect rather than the Standard (Demotic) Greek used by the majority of Greek speakers. In situations where families from these communities had ancestors originating in Southern Russia, as was the case with those defined as Caucasus Greeks, there had been a long tradition of using Russian as a second language after Pontic Greek anyway, but this was further reinforced in Soviet-dominated Czechoslovakia by the teaching of Russian in schools. Although a poor command of Modern Greek was previously often evident among the grandchildren of Greek refugees born in the 1980s and later, those from families who returned to Greece from the mid-70s have now been fully re-assimilated into Greek society and the Modern Greek education system. In fact, their multi-lingual background has enabled ethnic Greeks from Czechoslovakia (and elsewhere in the former Soviet Bloc) to develop and exploit a marked facility in foreign language learning and communication.\n\nExcept of the previous migration because of Greek Civil War, the next generation migration was caused by the Greek government-debt crisis on 2008. The also known as \"Greek brain drain\". From 2008 a minimum of 200.000 young educated people left from Greece to find a job in Europe & USA. The more desired countries were UK, Germany, the Netherlands, USA, and of course lot of people came also to the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The reason of choosing the Czech Republic and Slovakia is the foreign companies - mostly IT companies - that reside in those countries, companies like AT&T, IBM, RedHat and many more foreign or local companies that have many vacancies for IT people.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48120767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48120767", "title": "Guernsey Society", "text": "Guernsey Society\n\nThe Guernsey Society is an organisation for people with an interest in the Bailiwick of Guernsey.\n\nThe Guernsey Society aims are to promote, maintain and stimulate interest in all matters concerning the Bailiwick of Guernsey, its past, present and future - and keeping alive the \"Spirit of Guernsey\" both in the islands and overseas.\n\nThe Guernsey Society was formed in 1943 to represent the interests of the island to the British Government during the German Occupation, and to establish a network for Guernsey evacuees in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Society was the idea of three Guernseymen based in London: Sir Donald Banks, Air Commodore Henry Le Marchant Brock and Colonel Guy Durand Ozanne. Banks became the first Chairman, and Brock became the first Secretary. Other notable founder members included: actor Barry Jones, Professor John Le Patourel, Sir William Arnold and Professor Herbert Fleure.\n\nThe Society has published a regular magazine since 1945. \"The Bulletin\" appeared eight times during 1945 and 1946. It became \"Quarterly Review of the Guernsey Society\" in January 1947, and continued until 1971, when the frequency was reduced to three times a year, and the title changed to \"The Review of the Guernsey Society\". Since its inception it has published articles from a wide range of respected Guernsey figures including Ambrose Sherwill, John Le Patourel, James Marr, Marie de Garis and TF Priaulx.\n\nIn the summer of 1944, the newly formed Society was instrumental in organising, together with prominent members of the Jersey Society in London, a symposium in Oxford to start planning for the future of the Channel Islands following their liberation from Nazi Occupation. The result was the publication of a book, \"Nos Iles\", which was widely read by members of the States of Guernsey and States of Jersey, and became known as \"the Liberation Army's bible\".\n\nThe Society has also published a number of books on the island and its history:\n\nArticles from \"The Review\", as well as other Society publications, have been influential and widely used as source material for authoritative works on the island's history. Examples include:\n\nThe Society organises regular formal and informal meetings in London and Guernsey.\n\nIn 2010, the Society launched \"Donkipedia\", a wiki dedicated to the Bailiwick of Guernsey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7244109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7244109", "title": "Irob people", "text": "Irob people\n\nThe Irob people (Ge'ez: ኢሮብ \"ʾirōb\", also spelled Erob) are an ethnic group who occupy a predominantly highland, mountainous area by the same name in northeastern Tigray Region, Ethiopia. They speak the Saho language. The majority of them are Ethiopian Catholic, and they are largely agriculturalists. The etymology of the name Irob is debatable, but the elders of the Irob say that the term was derived from Saho word \"Oroba\", meaning \"welcome to our house\". The boundaries of Irobland are, to an extent, identical to the Irob woreda; both are bordered by the following areas: Dabri-Mela to the north, Hado to the east, the Afar Region to the east and south, Shoumezana and Gulomakeda to the west, and Saesi Tsaedaemba to the south. The first two neighbors are Saho speakers and predominantly Muslim, the third are Muslim Afars, and the others are Tigrigna-speaking Christians.\n\n The capital (traditional center) of Irob is Alitena. Irobs trace their lineage to one man, Summe, son of Neguse Worede-Mehret, who according to the Irob oral history, migrated to the Irobland from Tsira'e in Kilite Awla'elo, a part of Tigray, about 700 years ago. \n\nDespite their relatively small population, the Irob have been at the forefront of regional and national politics in Ethiopia. Starting with the Zemene Mesafint, the Irob family of Shum Agame Woldu dominated Tigrayan politics. The dynasty included Dejazmach Subagadis (whose rule extended to present-day Eritrea), Shum Agame Desta, Ras Sebhat Aregawi, and many others including Emperor Yohannes IV.\n\nDuring the Italian invasion, Irob patriots, led by individuals such as Dejazmach Ayele Sebhat and Dejazmach Kassa Sebhat, contributed to the anti-Italian resistance movement from their base on Mount Asimba. \n\nIn more recent times, many Irobs, such as Dr. Tesfay Debessay, who was a leader of the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party (EPRP), played an important role in the struggle waged against the dictatorial junta led by Colonel Mengistu Haile Mariam. \n\nThe Irob are divided into three major subgroup,s or \"Are\" (Houses): Adgadi-Are, Buknaiti-Are and Hasaballa. The Adgadi-Are and Hasaballa are predominantly Orthodox Christians, while Bouknaiti-Are consist of Catholics. \n\nThe Irob economy is primarily based on agriculture, including animal husbandry. The region is also renowned for its excellent honey. In fact, the Miess /Tej or local \"Beer\"(honey-wine) made from the honey is praised throughout the region for its quality. \n\nIn general, the Irob are a bicultural community. With their Saho-speaking neighbors, they share a common language and certain social structures, such as a clan division system called \"Mela\", and the title \"Ona\" for their regional leaders. Many other cultural practices, including wedding ceremonies, dress, dance, and food; however, are more similar to their Tigrigna-speaking neighbors specially with the peoples of Agame. \n\nIrobs also have distinctive customs. For example, they have an elaborate poetry-telling tradition called \"Adar\". The Irob men have a dance/step routine called \"Hora\" and \"Alkafo\", which was traditionally performed in preparation for battles and still commonly displayed during weddings and other ceremonies. \n\nIrob People\n"}
{"id": "53979927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53979927", "title": "John L. Hagan", "text": "John L. Hagan\n\nJohn L. Hagan is an American sociologist focusing on criminology. He is currently the John D. MacArthur Professor of Sociology and Law at Northwestern University and University Professor Emeritus of Law and Sociology at University of Toronto and also formerly the Dahlstrom Distinguished Professor of Sociology and Law at University of North Carolina (1994-96). He is an Elected Fellow to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Royal Society of Canada, Canadian Institute for Advanced Research and American Society of Criminology. In May 2017, he was inducted into the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "58727777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58727777", "title": "Kakegurui – Compulsive Gambler (film)", "text": "Kakegurui – Compulsive Gambler (film)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10844934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10844934", "title": "Koreans in the Arab world", "text": "Koreans in the Arab world\n\nKoreans in the Arab world used to form a major part of the worldwide Korean diaspora. Koreans started coming to the Arab world in large numbers in early 1970s as migrant labourers; between 1975 and 1985, 1.1 million Koreans came for work, which made it the third-most popular destination for Korean emigrants. Eventually, most returned home or moved on to other countries, and , the South Korean government's own figures showed over 24 thousand of their nationals living in the region. However, South Korean nationals are present in all of the region's countries, and North Korean workers also have a growing presence in several of them.\n\nThough Korea had a long history of trading contact with the Arab world by means of intermediaries, there were no recorded Korean visitors before 1959, when two Korean Muslims went to Mecca for the hajj. In 1974, the first South Korean firm won a contract in the region, for highway construction in Saudi Arabia, and imported 218 South Korean construction workers, the first Korean residents, to assist in the project. The following year, 3,593 South Koreans went to Saudi Arabia for work. By 1977, migrants to Saudi Arabia alone composed nearly one-fifth of all registered emigration from South Korea, making it the third-most popular destination for emigrants (the top two being Japan and the United States, each of which had longstanding Korean communities, Korean Americans and Zainichi Koreans).\n\nThe growth in the South Korean migrant worker population reflected a deliberate policy of the government to promote manpower exports; they had established a special department for this purpose as early as the mid-1960s, and in the 1970s, construction enterprises were given priority in order to facilitate their entry into overseas markets. Over two dozen South Korean companies employed migrant labour, the largest such employer being Hyundai Construction; Koreans were described as having a \"competitive advantage\" over workers of other nationalities due to their discipline and level of skill, which some commentators attributed to South Korea's practise of universal male conscription. Unlike their Western competitors, Koreans worked around the clock in shifts; huge lighting systems were installed to facilitate night work. A survey of migrants showed that 73% were between 25 and 40 years old; under half (48%) of the regular workers were married, while 69% of contract workers were.\n\nThe receiving countries were concerned about the effect that long-term residence of migrant workers could have on their societies; they preferred Korean workers because they were unaccompanied by family members and so stayed only for short periods. The typical length of an assignment in the region was three years. Migration to the region would peak in 1982 and 1983. Wages were around four to five million won, roughly twice what could be earned in South Korea at the time, and workers typically remitted 80% of their salaries. Families used saved remittances to purchase houses or start businesses. However, migration was not a success for everyone: roughly one-in-ten workers returned from the Middle East reported a decrease in income, usually due to inability to find suitable work. The hot, dry climate and long work hours also resulted in health problems for many workers, and the medical bills whittled away at their savings.\n\nSeveral factors in the late 1980s contributed to decreasing the amount of Korean migration. Increasing labour unrest initiated by South Korean workers provided one stimulus for the localisation of the workforce. South Korea's rising labour costs were another reason. During the latter half of the 1980s, the proportion of Korean labourers working on construction projects for Hyundai declined from 70% to only 20-30% during the 1980s, with the shortfall being taken up by local labourers instead. By 1990, only 56,000 South Korean migrant workers went abroad to any destination, a drop of over 70% since 1982. By 1992, the wage gap between South Korea and the rich countries of the Middle East had largely disappeared. The South Korean population would shrink over the following decade before rebounding slightly to 13,008 by 2009. Over the next two years, the population would show rapid growth of nearly 27%, reaching 16,461 by 2011. Nearly three-quarters of that recent population growth was driven by increased migration to the United Arab Emirates.\n\nFurthermore, in an echo of the South Korean policy of the 1970s and 1980s, the North Korean government has also been sending its workers abroad to earn hard currency for their country recently. , there were estimated to be six thousand North Korean workers in various Arab countries, including Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, and Yemen; like the South Koreans two decades earlier, they also work primarily in construction-related trades such as welding and carpentry.\n\nBahrain was a minor destination for South Korean migrant workers in the late 1970s and early 1980s. South Korea used to have an embassy in Bahrain from 1976 to 1999, but closed it in a round of cost-cutting measures after the 1997 Asian financial crisis. However, South Korean companies continued to do business in various fields in Bahrain, including construction, heavy industry, power, desalination plants and electronic engineering. In 2001, there were only about 70 South Koreans in Bahrain, primarily corporate assignees. However, the small population was enough to support a single Korean supermarket as well as a few Korean restaurants. As of 2011, South Korean consular statistics recorded 282 of their nationals living in Bahrain. Four had Bahraini nationality, while the other 278 were on temporary visas. Their population grew by about 15% since 2009. There were no international students. However, in 2012, in 2012, Bahrain and South Korea signed an agreement on promoting study abroad exchanges between the two countries.\n\nEgypt was a relatively minor destination for Korean migrant workers. The Cairo Korean School, founded on 5 December 1979, is one of the region's few Korean day schools; it enrolled 27 students at the elementary level . However, their student numbers have been falling, and from 2002 until 2008 they did not even hold any graduation ceremony. There is also a Korean church in Cairo, which conducts various outreach activities. , South Korean consular statistics recorded 995 of their nationals or former nationals living in Egypt, with 886 in Cairo and surroundings, and 109 living in other parts of the country. 21 are Egyptian nationals, 65 are international students, and 909 have other kinds of visas. Their population has remained roughly stable since 2009.\n\nThe Korean School in Cairo (카이로한국학교), a South Korean international school, is in New Cairo.\n\nThe first group of nine South Korean workers arrived in Iraq in 1975; however, until the end of 1980, only a total of 1,958 registered emigrants went to the country. However, their numbers would increase along with the intensification of the Iran–Iraq War; from 1981 until 1985, Iraq was consistently the second to fourth-most popular Arab world destination for South Korean migrant labourers, a total of whom 66,665 went to the country during that period. In March 2003, then-president Roh Moo-hyun agreed to dispatch a contingent of ROK army engineers to Iraq. Later the South Koreans expanded their presence, creating an entirely new division, the Zaytun Division, consisting of 3,600 troops; they were sent to Iraq in September 2004. As of March 2007, about 1,600 remained; another 400 were expected to return home in April, with the others departing by the end of the year. There were also 113 South Korean civilians in Iraq . There are no registered schools for Korean nationals in Iraq.\n\nJordan was only a minor destination for South Korean migrant workers in the 1970s and 1980s. The first group of 90 migrant workers arrived in 1975; from then until 1985, a total of 12,544 came to the country. The number reached its peak with 2,404 in 1980 but fell to less than a quarter that level by 1985. By 2011, the country had the Arab world's seventh-largest Korean population. From 356 in 2009, the number of South Korean nationals grew by 66% to 592 in 2011. Among them, 48 were international students, while 544 held other types of visas; none had become Jordanian nationals. The vast majority (556, or 94%) lived in Amman or its surroundings, with another 14 living at Irbid, and 22 in other places.\n\nSouth Koreans in the country pursue a variety of professions. Some are interested in investing in construction projects in the country. The Korea International Cooperation Agency has been sending Korean language instructors to the University of Jordan and other universities in the country since 2002. More controversially, some of the South Koreans in Jordan are missionaries. By 2004, there were estimated to be at least 30 South Korean Christian missionary families living in Amman. Many had previously lived in Iraq but left the country under pressure from the South Korean government; after their arrival in Jordan, they often worked with Iraqi migrants and refugees in the country in an effort to convert them. One well-known South Korean who grew up in Jordan and naturalised as a citizen there is Won Ho Chung, an Arabic-speaking comedian who rose to fame in the region through the Axis of Evil Comedy Tour in 2007.\n\nKoreans in Kuwait first arrived in 1975 as employees of South Korean construction companies, although the two countries did not establish formal relations until June 1979. By this time, Kuwait had already become the second-most popular Middle Eastern destination for Korean workers behind Saudi Arabia; by that time, 13,813 Korean workers had already come to Kuwait. However, Kuwait would soon lose the second-place position, being surpassed by Libya in 1981 and Iraq in 1982. Koreans in Kuwait generally did not receive a welcome from or assimilate to the local society; in common with Indians, Filipinos, and Pakistanis, they were described as being at the bottom of the social structure, \"ridiculed and stripped of their rights\". Nor did they spend much of their money locally; as meals and housing were provided for them in their work camps, it was estimated that they remitted 80% of their earnings back to South Korea. In spite of these difficulties, between 1975 and 1985, 63,898 South Korean workers came to Kuwait, and as late as 1990, roughly 10,000 were estimated to remain. Kuwait's only school for Korean nationals, the Kuwait Hangul School, was established in 1991. Most South Koreans returned home in the following decade, and , only 1,000 South Korean nationals resided in the country. There were no known former South Korean nationals with Kuwaiti nationality; six were international students, and the remainder had other kinds of visas.\n\nThere was formerly a small contingent of South Korean soldiers in Kuwait, who numbered 170. South Korean civilian employees from the United States Army's Camp Casey in Dongducheon, Gyeonggi-do have been deployed to bases in Kuwait, including Camp Arifjan, in support of the US Army. In 2005, a group calling itself Kuwait Mujahideen claimed to have killed a Korean national as part of an attack on a US Army base in Umm Al-Hayman near Al Ahmadi.\n\nNorth Korean companies have established a greater presence in Kuwait recent years, and the government of South Korea estimated that there are roughly three or four thousand North Korean construction workers in the country . Air Koryo, the national airline of North Korea, began operating weekly flights between Pyongyang and Kuwait City in 2011.\n\nThough Libya did not receive its first South Korean workers until 1977, it quickly became a popular destination; it was the only Arab country which experienced consistent growth in the number of Korean workers between 1981 and 1985, and by 1985 it had already become the Arab world's second most popular destination, with 23,138 arrivals from South Korea. In total, from 1977 until 1985, 103,953 South Koreans came to Libya. However, virtually all returned home, and , it was estimated that only 854 South Korean nationals lived in the country. The South Korean population fell a further 87% in the next two years, leaving just 111 South Koreans in the country. Libya also has a Korean weekend school, founded in 2000; it enrolled 22 students from kindergarten to high school levels .\n\nNorth Korea also dispatched labourers to Libya in the 1980s and 1990s; a batch of Northern construction workers arrived in Libya in 2008. There were estimated to be roughly 200 North Korean expatriates in Libya . Among them are construction workers, doctors, and nurses. They were not evacuated during the Libyan civil war that year. South Korean official media reported that Pyongyang had explicitly ordered their nationals in Libya and Egypt not to return home.\n\nSouth Korea and Qatar established diplomatic relations in 1974, and two years later, the South Korean embassy opened in Doha. Qatar was never a major destination for South Korean labourers; the first group of 636 workers did not arrive until 1976, and until 1985, only a total of 12,816 South Korean emigrants chose Qatar as their destination. Unlike in other countries in the region, Korean workers in Qatar did not just come as employees of Korean companies, but also as subcontractors of Japanese companies as well. Qatar Airways is one of the major employers of South Koreans in Qatar. , South Korean consular statistics showed 2,184 of their nationals or former nationals living in the country, a decrease of 7.7% since 2009. 1,383 lived in Doha, 467 in Mesaieed, and 334 in Al Khor. Five were Qatari nationals, 112 were international students, and the remaining 2,067 had other types of visas.\n\nIn addition, an estimated 3,000 North Koreans lived in the country . This accounted for approximately 40% of the working population of North Korean in the Persian Gulf region at that time. North Korean workers are reported to be among the lowest paid in the country, earning US$170/month, less than even Nepali migrants; they perform low-skilled work such as plastering and bricklaying. Their lives are subject to a great deal of official constraint, and they try to avoid contact with the South Koreans. There were no registered schools for Korean nationals in Qatar .\n\nSouth Korea established diplomatic relations with Saudi Arabia in 1962, and opened an embassy in Jeddah in 1973, which would later move to Riyadh. Labour relations were especially a source of friction in Saudi Arabia; one eyewitness account by an American expatriate claims that Hyundai's management called in the Saudi military to put down a strike at the Jubail port construction project, and that the army then proceeded to arrest and execute several workers. Korean workers were also not afforded the opportunity for much social contact with their host population, though a few did convert to Islam. Migration to the country would peak in 1982 and 1983, with over 122,000 South Koreans entering Saudi Arabia in each of those years, making up over 70% of Korean migration to the region. However, by 1985, the number of South Koreans entering Saudi Arabia had fallen to 58,924, paralleling a downward trend in the whole region. Saudi Arabia's first school for South Korean nationals was established in 1992 in Jeddah; , it enrolled a total of 23 children at the kindergarten level.\n\nIn 1998, South Korea closed their consulate in Jeddah. There was no known North Korean presence, and North Korea does not maintain diplomatic relations with the kingdom. , South Korean government figures showed 2,821 of their nationals or former nationals in the country, up by about 40% from 2,014 in 2011. This made them the second-largest Korean population in the region, having surpassed the population in Qatar which shrank during the same period. 43 were Saudi nationals, 65 were international students, and the remaining 2,713 had other kinds of visas. 1,479 lived in Damman, 607 in Riyadh, 394 in Jeddah, 134 in Medina, 100 in Jizan, and 11 in 'Asir Province.\n\nThere are two Korean international schools in Saudi Arabia: Korean International School of Jeddah (KISJ; 젯다한국국제학교) and Korean School in Riyadh (리야드한국학교).\n\nThe United Arab Emirates received a small contingent of Korean migrant workers in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but it was never a major destination. However, due to rapid growth since 2005, the country has come to have the Arab world's largest Korean population. , there were roughly 2,500 South Koreans living in Dubai alone, largely businessmen working at the 90 Korean companies which operated in the country. Rapid population growth continued through 2011; by that year, South Korean consular statistics showed 5,665 of their nationals or former nationals living in the UAE, giving it the region's largest South Korean population, with more than twice as large a population as that in Saudi Arabia. Five were Emirati nationals, fourteen were international students, and the rest had other types of visas. 3,276 lived in Dubai, 1,982 in Abu Dhabi, 141 in Sharjah, 83 in Ajman, 67 in Ras al-Khaimah, 36 in Fujairah, and 22 in Umm al-Quwain.\n\nMany South Koreans in the UAE are flight attendants working for Emirates Airlines; the number of Koreans working for Emirates Airlines increased from 15 in 1998 to 620 as of 2007, mostly based out of Dubai. Dubai has the UAE's largest community of South Koreans. However, a consulate was not opened in Dubai until March 2008. In Abu Dhabi, Reem Investments plans to develop a residential complex for South Korean expatriates on Al Reem Island, and have engaged Gansam Architects of Seoul to design its cultural centre.\n\nThere are also believed to be roughly 1,300 North Korean workers in the UAE, primarily in Dubai and Abu Dhabi. They earn between US$300 and $500 per month, but have to make so-called \"loyalty payments\" of $150 to $250 to the North Korean government. This has sparked discontent among the workers; in response, the North Korean government has sent security agents to patrol North Korean work camps and keep an eye out for people making critical comments. In 2010, a branch of the Pyongyang Okryu Restaurant opened in Dubai, staffed by waitresses from North Korea; the restaurant earns hard currency to supplement the North Korean state budget.\n\nOther countries which received Korean migrant workers in the late 1970s and early 1980s include Yemen, Oman, and Sudan. There are Korean weekend schools in Mauritania (Nouadhibou), Morocco (Rabat and Agadir) and Tunisia (Tunis).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32084589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32084589", "title": "Korkoro", "text": "Korkoro\n\nKorkoro (\"Alone\" in the Romanes) is a 2009 French drama film written and directed by Tony Gatlif, starring French actors Marc Lavoine, Marie-Josée Croze and James Thiérrée. The film's cast were of many nationalities such as Albanian, Kosovar, Georgian, Serbian, French, Norwegian, and nine Romani people Gatlif recruited in Transylvania.\n\nBased on an anecdote about the Second World War by the Romani historian Jacques Sigot, the film was inspired by a Romani who escaped the Nazis with help from French villagers. It depicts the rarely documented subject of Porajmos (the Romani Holocaust). Other than a band of Romani people, the film has a character based on Yvette Lundy, a French teacher who was active in the French resistance and deported to a concentration camp for forging passports for Romani. Gatlif had intended to make a documentary but the lack of supporting documents led him to present it as a drama.\n\nThe film premiered at the Montréal World Film Festival, winning the Grand Prize of the Americas, amongst other awards. It was released in France as Liberté in February 2010, where it grossed $601,252; revenues from Belgium and the United States brought the total to $627,088. The film's music, composed by Tony Gatlif and Delphine Mantoulet, received a nomination in the \"Best Music Written for a Film\" category at the 36th annual César Awards.\n\n\"Korkoro\" has been described as a \"rare cinematic tribute\" to those killed in the Porajmos. In general, it received positive reviews from critics, including praise for having an unusually leisurely pace for a Holocaust film. Critics regarded it as one of the director's best works, and with \"Latcho Drom\", the \"most accessible\" of his films. The film is considered to show Romani in a non-stereotypical way, far from their clichéd depictions as musicians.\n\nThe film is set during World War II in rural Vichy France, and begins with a nine-year-old French boy, Claude (Mathias Laliberté) escaping from an orphanage. He decides to avoid state protection. He meets a Romani caravan, an extended family of 20 men, women and children, who decide to adopt him. The Romani start calling Claude, \"Korkoro\", the free one. Fascinated by their nomadic lifestyle, Claude decides to stay with them.\n\nThe caravan sets up camp outside a small wine-growing village, hoping to find seasonal work in the vineyards and a place to sell their wares. The village, as was the trend, is divided into two factions—one welcomes the Romani, and the other sees them as an intrusion. Théodore Rosier (Marc Lavoine), the village mayor and veterinarian, and Mademoiselle Lundi (Marie-Josée Croze), a school teacher and clerk in city hall, are two of the friendlier villagers. The Vichy France gendarmerie used the documentation made in the passports of its citizens to monitor their movements for which a threshold was set, along with imprisonment for violations This adversely affected the Romani. Lundi uses her powers as a clerk, and forges their passports, removing the documentation about their movements.\n\nLater, when Rosier has an accident outside the village, he is rescued by the Romani, who treat the mayor with their traditional healing practices. He sells them his father's house, in order to protect them from the Fascist policy of imprisoning the homeless. Lundi enrolls the children in her school. The freedom-loving Romani recognize that these French are trying to help but struggled with life in a fixed place and the rules of formal education.\n\nWhen the Nazis arrive, Rosier and Lundi are revealed to be members of the French Resistance; they are arrested and tortured during interrogation. The Nazis round up the Romani and send them to concentration camps. Claude, cared for by Rosier, chooses to go with the Romani.\n\nDuring World War II, the Porajmos was the attempt by Nazi Germany, the Independent State of Croatia, Horthy's Hungary and their allies to exterminate the Romani people of Europe. Under Hitler’s rule, both Romanieand Jews were defined as \"enemies of the race-based state\" by the Nuremberg Laws; the two groups were targeted by similar policies and persecution, culminating in the near annihilation of both populations in Nazi-occupied countries. Estimates of the death toll of Romani people in World War II range from 220,000 to 1,500,000.\n\nBecause Eastern European Romani communities were less organised than Jewish communities, Porajmos was not well documented. There also existed a trend to downplay the actual figures, according to Ian Hancock, director of the Program of Romani Studies at the University of Texas at Austin. Tony Gatlif, whose films mostly have Romani people as subjects, had long wanted to make a documentary on this less well-known subject, but the lack of enough documented evidence coupled with the absence of accurate pre-war census figures for the Romani made it difficult.\nGatlif's quest began in 1970 when he approached Matéo Maximoff, a French writer of Romani ethnicity. The two went to Montreuil to interview the Romani who were initially not very forthcoming discussing the subject of Porajmos. Gatlif was also researching the \"Justes\", the French who attempted to shield the Romani from persecution. Following former French President Jacques Chirac's efforts to honour the \"Justes\", Gatlif came across Yvette Lundy, a former schoolteacher in Gionges, La Marne, who had been deported for forging documents for the Romani. Gatlif also got hold of an anecdote by Jacques Sigot, a historian who has documented the Porajmos, which would later help with the story. The anecdote is about a Romani family saved from being sent to the camp at Montreuil-Bellay by a French lawyer who sold them his home for a single franc. Unable to adjust to a stationary lifestyle, the family took to the streets, which led to their arrest in northern France and eventual incarceration in the Auschwitz concentration camp.\nThe characters in \"Korkoro\" are drawn from Sigot's anecdote. The film traces the Romani \"familia\"'s life during the war, from their disbelief at being forbidden to travel, their rejection by others when they stay in one place, to their arrest, incarceration, liberation with the help of a local French mayor and a notary, their struggle to live in a non-nomadic way, and then final arrest before being sent to the Death Camps. The character Théodore Rosier is based on the notary in the anecdote. The other \"Juste\" character, Lise Lundi, is based on Yvette Lundy and an old teacher of Gatlif's from Belcourt in Algeria who was a communist and an aide with the Front de Libération Nationale (National Liberation Front).\n\nIntended to be a documentary, \"Korkoro\" became a drama because of the lack of sufficient supporting documents. Gatlif wrote the initial script in one month; further modifications later followed which made the film's style a narrative by the characters Rosier and Lundi. Gatlif used Lundy's help to write the scenes related to her, to which he added his own experiences with his teacher. The first appearance of the Romani in the film is inspired by the way the nomadic Romani showed up in the middle of nowhere after Gatlif had been working on the characterisation for over a year. Another year was spent in developing Taloche's character.\n\nGatlif wanted to represent the entire Romani community in Félix Lavil dit Taloche's naiveté and purity. As an example, Taloche is shown as being afraid of ghosts, echoing the Romani phobia. For Taloche's role, Gatlif needed a musician with acrobatic skills; this proved very hard to find. In Paris at the Théâtre de la Ville, he was impressed by James Thiérrée, a grandson of Charlie Chaplin. A non-Romani, (though Chaplin's grandmother was Romani) Thiérrée learned Romanes and Romani swing music in six months.\n\nFor Théodore Rosier, Gatlif wanted someone to emulate a typical Frenchman of the time, with a \"voice and face a little like that of Pierre Fresnay, Maurice Ronet, Jacques Charrier or Gérard Philippe\", which he found in Marc Lavoine. Marie-Josée Croze was the obvious choice for Mademoiselle Lise Lundi. Gatlif had envisioned Lundi as a \"Hitchcock character: fragile, mysterious and strong\".\n\nPierre Pentecôte, the militia character played by Carlo Brandt, was presented with a pitiful look, rather than with a villainous caricature. His drooping hat and a few extra pounds symbolise the fat militia of the period. The orphan, P'tite Claude, was played by Mathias Laliberté. Rufus was chosen by Gatlif for the role of Fernand because of his typical French looks. Puri Dai, the grandmother, was played by Raya Bielenberg, a Soviet-born Norwegian artist and 2005 recipient of Oslo City art award who uses music and dance to make the Romani culture better known in Norway. The other notable characters in the movie, Darko, Kako, Chavo, Zanko and Tatane were played by Arben Bajraktaraj, Georges Babluani, Ilijir Selimoski, Kevyn Diana and Thomas Baumgartner respectively. Levis, a minor character was played by then 11-year-old great-grandson of Django Reinhardt, a virtuoso jazz guitarist and composer of Manouche Romani ethnicity. The cast included people of many nationalities, Albanian, Kosovar, Georgian, Serbian, French and Norwegian along with the nine Romani people Gatlif found living in extreme poverty in Transylvania. Arrangements were made for these Romani to stay in France for the three to four months it took to shoot the film.\n\nThe film was shot in Loire, in the Monts du Forez, Rozier-Côtes-d'Aurec and Saint-Bonnet-le-Château. The tools used in the movie, which were very similar to the ones employed in 1943, came from Transylvania. The barbed wire fences of the concentration camps are genuine ones built by the Nazis in Romania which can be differentiated from the ones used for cattle by their denser spacing.\n\nThe male actors were asked to grow their hair and moustaches. The actors also had to diet to lose weight to achieve the look of World War II characters. The costumes had a faded look, a reflection that people of the period owned few clothes, often only two outfits. None of the actors knew the script in advance and were only informed each night before of what they were to do in their daily scenes. The Romani were not aware of the historic events that were the basis of the movie, and were only told that the story was set in hard times comparable to Ceaușescu's tenure in Romania. In the scene where the Romani revolt against the police over the death of Taloche, they were made aware of the character's death only when the scene was being shot, leading to a genuine outpouring of emotions, making their fight with the police appear more real. Gatlif later remarked in an interview that this scene stands for the actual revolt by the Romani in Auschwitz on May 16, 1944.\n\nThierrée was the only actor allowed to improvise. His characterisation of Taloche was built on spontaneity, and in many instances, Gatlif had no clue how he would act in a scene, such as in the tap scene in which he plunges into a stairwell. In another scene, in which he dances with war music in the background, Thierrée pretended to make love to the earth like an animal. Gatlif, who had wanted the character to have the ability to sense forthcoming danger, like animals often do, stated that Thierrée was suitable for the role because he is very much an animal. The dance scene where Taloche is shown falling from a tree was done without stunt doubles.\n\nMusic plays a very important role in all of Gatlif's films, such as \"Latcho Drom\" and \"Gadjo dilo\", Scott Tobias noted in his review for NPR. \"Korkoro\" is no exception: the importance of music is evident from the opening credits in which barbed wire fences vibrate to the tune of plucked strings of a guitar and a cymbalum in line with the opening lines of the screenplay, \"the barbed wire sings in the wind\", to the oddest tools used to make music, such as the clanking of buckets and wagon wheels.\n\nThe background score was composed by Tony Gatlif and Delphine Mantoulet. The main theme of the songs is the Romani association with France. Despite the sad story, there are cheerful tracks too, with pieces for the waltz, tarantella and java. The film's music plays a prominent role from the opening credits to Catherine Ringer's track in the closing credits, \"Les Bohemians\", a waltz piece written by Gatlif and Mantoulet, which is described as setting the tone for the film. \"Les Bohemians\" is the first French song ever featured in a Gatlif movie. Gatlif chose Ringer for the track, inspired by the \"blood in the mouth\" feel to her voice. The song translates as \"Good luck to you all, if anyone worries that we’re gone, tell them we’ve been thrown from the light and the sky, we the lords of this vast universe.\" The java dance piece composed by Delphine accompanies a scene where the characters secretly congregate in a barn for dancing, signifying the scenario then when public gatherings were prohibited. The track \"Un Poulailler A La Bastilles\", sung by Gatlif's son Valentin Dahmani, plays on the existing racist stereotype of Romani as chicken thieves. The film also incorporates sound effects of horses, explosions and a watch mechanism. The soundtrack also has a tune of the \"Le Temps des cerises\", the revolutionary song of the Paris Commune. The music for the song's version in the movie was composed by Gatlif, using clockwork sounds and banjo. Other soundtrack vocalists included Kalman Urszuj, Sandu Ciorba and Ikola.\n\nA soundtrack album was released in February, 2010. It was nominated for the César Award in 2011 in the category Best Music Written for a Film, but lost to Alexandre Desplat's \"The Ghost Writer\". \"Korkoro\"s soundtrack is said to invoke mixed feelings like good humour, nostalgia and fear, creating a universe parallel to the film.\n\n\"Kokoro\" has been compared to \"Schindler's List\", a well-known American Holocaust drama. In his directing style Gatlif juxtaposed the vibrant Romani culture against the backdrop of war. In particular, reviewers commented on the subtle manner in which he dealt with the horrific aspects of war, and the manner in which he portrayed the Romani in a non-stereotypical racist way. In addition to the Romani characters, the film also has a spy for the French Resistance and a Dickensian orphan. Critics also made comparisons between the state of the Romani in the film, set during World War II, and their circumstances in the present.\n\nCritics compared \"Korkoro\" to Steven Spielberg's \"Schindler's List\" because of the sacrifices Rosier made to protect the Romani from the Nazis. A review in \"Moving Pictures Network\" called it \"Schindler's List minus the happy ending\", citing a lack of comic relief, creating an inability to connect with the audience. The opening scene, a close-up shot of barbed wire fences stretched along wooden posts with internment camp barracks in the background, is an image common to many Holocaust films, wrote Scott Tobias, who also commented on the \"Schindlerian\" actions of Rosier who gives his home to the Romani—an assessment backed up by Eric Hynes's review in \"Time Out, New York\". Sophie Benamon at \"L'Express\" observed that Gatlif dealt with the horrors of the Holocaust by hinting at them through symbolism, such as portraying an abandoned child, suggesting imprisoned parents, and a clock with Hebrew markings seen lying abandoned in the middle of the railroad tracks, implying the passage of a train taking Jews to a ghetto. Jr Glens Heath, writing for\"Slant Magazine\", remarked that Gatlif's characterisation of the incomplete historic archives with which he was presented made the film a very \"personal WWII historiography\", where the characters \"transcend victimisation\" rather than mire themselves in melodrama, regarded as a typical Holocaust movie characteristic. Michael Nordine wrote for \"Hammer to Nail\" that this film cannot be compared with \"Life is Beautiful\" and other \"uplifting tales\" with Holocaust themes because of its straightforward portrayal of realistic events.\n\nA few critics suggested freedom as a theme in light of the importance shown by the characters to it. True to its title, which is a Romani word for freedom, Gatlif used his freedom to direct a tangential, poignant romantic story with the historical documents available to him, unlike other movies with similar themes, remarked Jacques Mandelbaum at \"Le Monde\". \"The Village Voice\" review declared that it is \"a magnificent paean to the mad ecstasy of freedom\". The \"Arizona Reporter\" review added that, for the Romani, freedom means \"being able to keep in motion, that is, the journey, not the destination, is the reward\". It observed the importance the characters give to freedom, citing the scene where Taloche becomes concerned that water is being \"held against its will\" in the taps, and \"releases\" it to overflow the sink onto the bathroom floor, and then the stairs, with Taloche blissfully sliding down the stairs as if he were on a Disney ride. Alexis Campion at \"Le Journal du Dimanche\" remarked that Gatlif has refreshingly portrayed the Romani as \"free-spirited\" characters and added that this historic film is a tribute to those free souls who take to the streets even today. The \"Télérama\" review was of the opinion that the movie runs out of steam during the scenes depicting historic events, but gains momentum in the forests and on the roads, where its characters' passion for freedom, and hence Lavoine's and Croze's characters, get sidelined by that of Thierrée's, with his St. Vitus' dance and Dostoyevsky-like ruminations. It added that Taloche is the true \"incarnation\" of freedom.\n\nA section of critics wrote on the relevance of the movie to the current times. In an interview, Gatlif stated that he wanted the movie to mirror the current times, adding that the times have not changed much, and that while the political extermination has gone, the psychological and political views of Romani have not. He criticised the French law that allows wanderers to stay in one place only for 24 hours. He was also critical of the plight of Romani in Hungary, Romania and Italy. He went on that the state of the Romani now in many places, \"with the rows of homeless people waiting for a bowl of soup with a tin can on their hands\", is not very different from that in the concentration camps. Gatlif also lashed out against the fact that until 1969, Romani were required to have their papers stamped at a police station or city hall whenever they arrived at or left a French village. Bob Hill at \"Moving Pictures Network\" remarked that the movie draws parallels to the fact that \"we are once again veering toward a culture in which regimes and wealth determine who has the right to live free — and who has no rights at all\", and cited present happenings such as the developments in the Middle East, racial wars and inter-country disputes. It added that the movie makes the audience ask themselves if they live in a society that embraces or condemns diversity.\n\nThe film premiered at the 2009 Montreal World Film Festival, contending in the World Competition section, reserved for world and international premieres, for the awards Grand Prize of the Americas, Special Grand Prix of the Jury, Best Director, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best Screenplay, Best Artistic Contribution, and Innovation Award. Alongside the film, Gatlif released a novel under the same name, \"Liberté\", which he co-authored with the French novelist Eric Kannay. The book follows the film's script.\n\nIn 2009, it vied with films with historical themes for the Prix du film d’histoire at the Festival international du film d'histoire de Pessac. The 2010 Alliance Française French Film Festival screened it in the Resistance section, with other films dealing with themes of oppression and resistance. Later in 2010 it competed in the official section, reserved for Mediterranean films, for the Eros and Psyche Award and Special Mention/Artistic Expression recognition at the MedFilm Festival. It also participated in the 2011 Providence French Film Festival. \"Korkoro\" was screened on the first day of the Santa Barbara Human Rights Film Festival in 2011, along with films on subjects related to human rights ranging from \"abortion rights to post–civil-war Sierra Leone and the then ongoing political turmoil in Zimbabwe\". In the same year, the Ankara International Film Festival placed it in its masters section, along with the works of such noted filmmakers as Werner Herzog, Takeshi Kitano and Ken Loach. The Washington, DC International Film Festival also had a screening of the movie in 2011.\n\n\"Korkoro\" was released in France on February 24, 2010, grossing $601,252, and in Belgium on April 28, 2010, grossing $8,252, for an international total of $618,846. \"Korkoro\" premiered in North America on March 25, 2011 at New York's Cinema Village, with Lorber Films holding its distribution rights. The film grossed $1,224 over its opening weekend, and ranked 107th at the box office. It made $8,179 in 15 weeks in North American cinemas. This brought the total gross to $627,088.\n\nThe film's tone and narrative style received mixed response from the critics. Ronnie Scheib at \"Variety\" found it to be filled with excessive pathos, \"shuttling between the trite and the sublime\", while Odile Tremblay (\"Le Monde\") said in contrary that the film avoided excessive pathos, rendering it funny and tragic at the same time, an observation that was supported by Jacques Mandelbaum at \"Le Devoir\", who wrote that the film mixes humour, sensitivity and drama. \"Hammer to Nail\"s review by Michael Nordine asserted that the film is \"neither a pity party nor an emotionally manipulative attempt\", but a straightforward portrayal of things as they were, citing Gatlif's portrayal of the Romani as \"certainly sympathetic, but at no point does it seem overly so.\" The film provided insufficient analysis on the \"anti-roaming laws\" and their targeting of the Romani, observed the reviewer, to whom the Nazi and all other anti-Romani characters in the film came across as \"one dimensional bigots\". Bob Hill (\"Moving Pictures Network\") criticised that the film failed to strike an emotional chord, unlike other movies and books with a similar theme. He conceded it to be an \"important, but not a great movie—or even a particularly good one, for that matter.\" For a casual movie goer, he stated, \"\"Korkoro\" feels like a slow burn, lagging on long after most of the audience has long since called it quits\". In defence of the film's incoherent narrative style, Jr Glenn Heath at \"Slant Magazine\" explained that Gatlif intended it less as a historical drama and more as evoking the sense of a memory, imbibing the stream of consciousness techniques. Commenting on its tone, he wrote that \"Korkoro is a reserved but lasting examination of collectively silent horror\". At \"L'Express\", Sophie Benamon declared that with the film's controlled pace, it keeps its viewers breathless and induces emotion. Alexis Campion at \"Le Journal du Dimanche\" stated that the film transcends the stereotypes while the reviewer at \"Arizona Reporter\" noted that some might consider it to be stereotyping the Romani.\n\nOn Gatlif's direction, Odile Tremblay at \"Le Monde\" remarked that he had taken a heavy burden in directing a Holocaust movie along with coupling it with the \"poetic effervescence\" that the Romani are known for. He added that this can be regarded the best among his films. Michael Nordine characterised Gatlif's directorial style as passive and \"documentarian\", such that it \"sometimes verges on emotional distance\". \"What easily noticeable flourishes he adds tend to be understated\", he added. Eric Hynes at \"TimeOut\" lauded Gatlif's work in making a celebration of textures and music of the Romani out of a melodramatic story. \"East County Magazine\"s negative review summed that Gatlif had too much faith on his audience, \"expecting them to take everything at face value\".\nThe film's plotting and characterisation was regarded flimsy by Nick Schager at \"The Village Voice\", who added that the film's \"robust emotion and cultural detail\" offsets it. \"National Public Radio\" review by Scott Tobias stated that the film weds the exotic culture of the Romani to the cliched themes of a war film with its characterisation as its means. With a \"Schindlerian\" Theodore Rosier, a Dickensian Claude, a hinted romance between Rosier and Miss Lundi, and the clown-like Taloche, it added, Gatlif has \"weaved a tapestry out of the authentic and the chintzy\". Joe Bendel at \"The Epoch Times\" stated that the film avoids simply depicting the Romani as victims, with its \"decidedly unsentimental\" central character, Taloche, who is \"wild almost to the point of being feral\". Sophie Benamon at \"L'Express\" declared that the madness of Taloche is the pivotal element of the film. In Taloche's face, Nick Schager perceived that \"the film seethes with full-bodied fury and anguish\". \"Arizona Reporter\"s review lauded \"Taloche's manic antics\" as \"both the comic center of the film and a representation of the tragedy\". Ronie Scheib (\"Variety\") admired Taloche's characterisation, commenting on his acrobatic stunts and close-to-nature persona as gelling well with the film's title of \"Freedom\". Lavoine's and Croze's characters also received a positive mention in the reviews at \"L'Express\" and \"The Epoch Times\", with Sophie Benamon at \"L'Express\" calling them \"compelling\".\n\nJulian Hirsch's cinematography can be regarded as a relief to the eyes from the film's gory Holocaust theme, stated Ronnie Scheib (\"Variety\"). Jacques Mandelbaum at \"Le Devoir\" added that the beauty of scenes such as the arrival of the Romani in caravans in their first scene and the gentle music is a stark contrast to the harsh themes of concentration camps and extermination. Odile Tremblay (\"Le Monde\") made mention of a number of scenes, including the one where Taloche opens a tap to \"free\" water, and the scene with an abandoned watch implying the ghettos as the best moments of the film. Nick Schager (\"The Village Voice\") stated that the film scores on its aesthetics in sequences depicting key elements, like the one with trains symbolising the Holocaust, and its detailed depiction of the characters' intimate practices, which bring depth to a rather predictable plot. Brian Lafferty (\"East County Magazine\") criticised Julian Hirsch for making the sequences look dull and gloomy with insufficient lighting. The tap scene received a special mention in \"L'Express\" review too.\n\nOn its historical aspects, Alexis Campion (\"Le Journal du Dimanche\") stated that this is the first French film dealing with the Porajmos. Ronnie Scheib (\"Variety\") lauded the film on its exposure of the French gendarmerie's role in the Holocaust, the reviewer added that this is the most \"accessible\" film of Gatlif after \"Latcho Drom\". A review in the \"Independent Catholic News\" said that the film provides one a chance to remember the forgotten aspects of World War II and to learn more about French prejudice and the persecution of the Gypsies.\n\nThe movie received its highest rating of three stars from the reviewers at \"Le Journal du Dimanche\" and \"Slant Magazine\" while \"Arizona Reporter\" gave it a B+ as per its grading system.\n\nKorkoro is rated at 75% on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "53618238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53618238", "title": "Lebanese New Zealanders", "text": "Lebanese New Zealanders\n\nLebanese New Zealanders refers to citizens or permanent residents of New Zealand of Lebanese ancestry. The community is diverse, having a large Christian religious base, being mostly Maronite Catholics and Greek Orthodox, while also having a small Muslim group of both the Shia and Sunni branches of Islam.\n\nLebanon, in both its modern-day form as the Lebanese state (declared in 1920, granted independence in 1943) and its historical form as the region of the Lebanon, has been a source of migrants to New Zealand for over two centuries. According to 2013 census, 1,044 Lebanese-descent people in New Zealand, with most of all people with Lebanese ancestry living in Auckland Region (44.0 percent), followed by the Wellington Region (22.4 percent), and the Otago Region (8.6 percent). Furthermore, 68.4 percent were born in New Zealand, up from 67.2 percent in 2006.\n\nAs part of a large scale emigration in the 1840s, numerous Lebanese (mostly Christians) migrated in great numbers out of Lebanon to various destinations. Most emigrated to Brazil and other Latin American nations, particularly Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia and Ecuador. Many also went to the United States, Canada, The United Kingdom, The United Arab Emirates and others to Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThus, New Zealand's Lebanese population is one of the older established non-English speaking minorities in the country (though many Lebanese people now speak English, to a greater or lesser extent). \n\nIn the 1890s, there were increasing numbers of Lebanese immigrants to New Zealand, part of the mass emigration from the area of the Lebanon that would become the modern Lebanese state, and also from the Anti-Lebanon mountains region of the border area with Syria.\n\nSome Lebanese people had settled in Auckland as early as 1890. The Lebanese blended into the community and attended local churches. Thanks to their language ability and entrepreneurial skills, along with a sense of belonging, gave them the sense confidence to integrate without losing their tradition and culture connection.\n\nEarly Lebanese settler Assid Corban and his family were instrumental in introducing commercial winemaking to New Zealand.\n\nIn New Zealand, 49% of Lebanese are Christian, while a minority (8%) are Muslim. While, 24.0 percent said they had no religion.\n\nAll main Lebanese religious groups — Christians, including Maronites, Greek Orthodox, Melkites, Protestants, Muslims, including Shi'a and Sunnis denominations; Druze, amongst others — are now represented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2867238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2867238", "title": "List of cooperatives", "text": "List of cooperatives\n\nThis is a list of notable co-operative enterprises by country. Co-operatives are business organizations owned and operated by a group of individuals for their mutual benefit.\nFor a list of Co-operative Federations, please see List of co-operative federations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFootball and rugby union supporters' trusts are incorporated as co-operatives of supporters. Several own the football club outright and many hold equity in the club.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3540456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540456", "title": "List of wealthiest charitable foundations", "text": "List of wealthiest charitable foundations\n\nThis is a list of wealthiest charitable foundations worldwide. It consists of the 37 largest charitable foundations, private foundations engaged in philanthropy, and other charitable organizations.\n\nOnly nonprofit foundations are included in this list. Organisations that are part of a larger company are excluded, such as holding companies.\n\nThe entries are ordered by the size of the organisation's financial endowment (that is, the value of assets net of liabilities, or invested donations). The endowment value is an estimate measured in United States dollars, based on the exchange rates on December 31, 2016. Due to fluctuations in holdings, currency exchange and asset values, this list only represents the valuation of each foundation on a single day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9128360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9128360", "title": "Marriage penalty", "text": "Marriage penalty\n\nThe marriage penalty in the United States refers to the higher taxes required from some married couples with both partners earning income that would not be required by two otherwise identical single people with exactly the same incomes. There is also a marriage bonus that applies in other cases. Multiple factors are involved, but in general, in the current U.S. system, single-income married couples usually benefit from filing as a married couple (similar to so-called income splitting), while dual-income married couples are often penalized. The percentage of couples affected has varied over the years, depending on shifts in tax rates.\n\nThe US tax code fixes different income levels for passing from one marginal tax rate to another, depending on whether the filing is done as a single person or as a married couple. For lower incomes, the transition points for married couples are twice those for single persons, which benefits a couple that gets married if their incomes are sufficiently different. This is equivalent to \"income splitting\", meaning that the tax due is the same as if the two persons use the schedule for single persons, but with each declaring half the total income. At higher incomes, this equivalence is lost but there is still an advantage if the two incomes are sufficiently different. To make an extreme example, if one person had $466,950 taxable income in 2016 (with itemized deductions amounting to more than twice the standard deduction) and the other earned nothing, the tax due by the earner as a single person would be $466,950*0.396−$43,830.05 or $141,082.15, whereas filing jointly they would pay $466,950*0.396−$54,333.70 or $130,578.50, a saving of $10,503.65.\n\nIf the incomes of the two persons are similar, then at the lower end of the tax schedule there is no difference between filing as singles and filing as a married couple (ignoring the question of deductions, see below). But at the higher end of the tax schedule, there is a penalty for a married couple whose incomes are similar, compared to what they would pay as singles.\n\nFor example, the following chart shows the US federal tax rates for 2013:\n\nUnder these tax rates, two single people who each earned $87,850 would each file as \"Single\" and each would pay a marginal tax rate of 25%. However, if those same two people were married, their combined income would be exactly the same as before (2 * $87,850 = $175,700), but the \"Married filing Jointly\" tax brackets would push them into a higher marginal rate of 28%, costing them an additional $879 in taxes.\n\nIn the most extreme case, two single people who each earned $400,000 would each pay a marginal tax rate of 35%; but if those same two people filed as \"Married, filing jointly\" then their combined income would be exactly the same (2 * $400,000 = $800,000), yet $350,000 of that income would be taxed as the higher 39.6% rate, resulting in a marriage penalty of $32,119 in extra taxes ($16,100 for the 39.6% bracket alone, plus the remainder is due to the higher phase out of the lower brackets.) Using the formulas for 2016 income, if both persons have a taxable income X greater than $415,050 then as singles each would pay 0.396X−$43830.05, whereas if they were married filing jointly they would pay 2(0.396X)−$54333.70, so they lose 2($43830.05)−$54333.70 or $33,326.40.\n\nIn some couples, the greater earner may benefit from filing as married, while the lesser earner from not being married. For example, consider two single people, one with an income of $100,000 (and therefore paying a marginal rate of 28%) and the other with no income (and therefore paying no income tax). By being married and filing jointly, the $100,000 earner reduces his/her bracket to the 25% rate, receiving a \"marriage bonus\" for a net tax savings of $364, while the nonearner goes from the 10% bracket to the 25% bracket on the first dollars earned upon entering the workforce.\n\nIt can be shown that it is mathematically impossible for a tax system to have all of (a) marginal tax rates that increase with income, (b) joint filing with income splitting for married couples, and (c) combined tax bills that are unaffected by two people's marital status.\n\nThe US tax code allows taxpayers to claim deductions (such as charitable contributions, mortgage interest, or payments for state taxes) on their income. Taxpayers can choose either an automatic standard deduction or else can choose to itemize their deductions. Two single people filing separate returns can each choose the deduction policy that benefits them more, but a married couple filing a single return will both be forced to use the same method. For example, if one person has no significant deductions, the person can take the standard deduction ($6,100 as of 2013). A different person, who has, for example, $10,000 in charitable contributions, would be better off itemizing his deductions since the standard deduction is $6,100 (single, 2013 tax year).\n\nIf the two people are allowed to file separate tax returns, then each can claim the deduction policy that benefits them the most, and their total combined deduction would be $16,100 ($6,100 + $10,000). However, if the two people are combined on one \"Married, filing jointly\" tax return, then they would be forced to choose either itemizing their deductions ($10,000 combined) or else using the standard deduction ($6,100 per person or $12,200 combined). Either way, the married couple would receive less deductions than two otherwise identical single people with exactly the same income.\n\nOn the other hand, being married can result in less tax. If one person earns twice the sum of the standard deduction and the personal exemption (so he earns around $20,000 a year) and the other earns nothing, the wage earner would pay around 5% of his total income as tax as a single, but as a couple their taxable income would be zero so they would pay no tax.\n\nIn connection with other taxation issues in the United States, one concern is that these marriages are subsidizing one-earner/one-nonearner parent couples in Social Security and Medicare benefits. For example, in social security and Medicare, two-earner couples pay taxes that create a surplus or at least pay for their own benefits (and receive reduced benefits such as reduced survivor benefits), while one-earner couples pay insufficient taxes that create a deficit and receive an extra, unfunded benefit of 50% or more in Social Security (i.e., a total of 150% or more), and 100% or more in Medicare (i.e. a total of 200% or more). \n\nThis problem is exacerbated by the fact Social Security and Medicare taxes are collected only on wage income, passive income such as capital and property earnings are exempt, and benefits are progressive. This means that the chief tax burden for the programs is carried by two-earner families with wages that range between the mid-range and the cap and these families also receive fewer benefits than any other family structure or set-up.\n\nProposals to \"raise the cap\" will continue to place an extra burden on 2-earner families where each partner has earned income (not capital gains or other property-based income that is exempt from the tax).\n\nThe Affordable Care Act added a tax on passive income and capital gains to support Medicare but it is not known if this is sufficient to prevent the heavy burden faced by two-earner families in subsidizing sole breadwinner families and especially the burden faced by two-earner families with wages between the mid-range and the cap. No such tax is yet imposed to support progressivity in Social Security benefits.\n\nThe Tax Policy Center also sees the current \"marriage bonus\" for sole breadwinners as the chief tax expenditure of the Bush tax cuts and a key contributor to the Federal debt.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund has called for the United States, Portugal and France, all countries with significant sovereign debt, to eliminate their practices, including income splitting, that charge 2-earner families higher taxes over single income families (whether married or not).\n\nThe marriage penalty can be even worse in cases where one spouse is not a citizen or resident of the United States . Although that spouse cannot be required by US law to pay US taxes, since the US person is still required by law to file taxes on worldwide income, two choices are left. The US person may either file as 'Married Filing Separately' (or 'Head of Household' if they have at least one qualifying person who is not their spouse) or try to convince their spouse to voluntarily pay US income taxes on their income by filing a joint return. The former requires using the 'Married Filing Separately' or 'Head of Household' tax brackets, which are less beneficial than 'Married Filing Jointly'. The latter allows that person to use the more favorable 'Married Filing Jointly' tax brackets but requires paying tax on the non-US person's income, which would not be required for two otherwise identical single people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16032322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16032322", "title": "Migaama language", "text": "Migaama language\n\nMigaama (also known as Migama, Jongor, Djonkor, Dionkor, Dyongor, Djonkor About Telfane) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in central Chad.\n\nAbdoullaye, D., and J. Kelly. 1985. On the \"compound\" tone in Migaama. In: Didier L. Goyvaerts (ed.), \"African Linguistics: Essays in Memory of M. W. K. Semikenke\", 1–7. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.\n\nBoyeldieu, Pascal. 1977. Notes linguistiques. In: Jean-Pierre Caprile (ed.), \"Études phonologiques tchadiennes\", 233–237. Paris: SELAF.\n\nFrajzyngier, Zygmunt, and Wendy Ross. 1996. The structure of the Migaama verbal stem. In: by Petr Zemánek (ed.), \"Studies in Near Eastern Languages and Literatures. Memorial Volume of Karel Petrácek\", 211–221. Prague: Academic of Sciences of the Czech Republic Oriental Institute.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann. 1975. Der Imperfektivstamm im Migama ('Djonkor von Abu Telfan', Republik Tschad). Folia Orientalia 16:85–100.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann, and Abakar Adams. 1992. Lexique migama: Migama-français et françaismigama (Guéra, Tchad), avec une introduction grammaticale. Sprache und Oralität in Afrika. Frankfurter Studien zur Afrikanistik. Vol. 7. Berlin: Dietrich Reimer Verlag.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann. 2003. Pi' 'el/parras/fa' 'al in Chadic? In: M. Lionel Bender, Gábor Takács and David L. Appleyard (eds.), \"Selected Comparative-Historical Afrasian Linguistic Studies: In Memory of Igor M. Diakonoff\", 317–323. Munich: LINCOM Europa.\n\nJungraithmayr, Herrmann. 2005a. Le paradigme verbal en -U dans les langues chamito-sémitiques. In: Antoine Lonnet and Amina Mettouchi (eds.), \"Les langues chamito-sémitiques (afro-asiatiques)\", vol. 1, 65–80. Paris: Ophrys.\n\nWolff, H. Ekkehard. 1977. Verb bases and stems in Migama. Afrika und Übersee 60:163–177.\n\n"}
{"id": "11996373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11996373", "title": "Mulagori", "text": "Mulagori\n\nThe Mulagori (), also spelled Mullagori and Mallagori, is sub section of Momand Pashtun Ghoryakhel confederacy. Predominantly, Mullagori live in the Mula Gori Tehsil of Khyber Agency in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Pakistan and in Nangarhar Province, Afghanistan.\n\nThe Mulagori are believed to be one of the bravest tribes descended from Ghoryakhel. They were considered to be the fighters tribe of Pushtuns during the British rule in East India. They settled just north of the Khyber Pass during the time when Islam was brought to South Asia.\n\nThey hold to a tradition that when Muhammad of Ghor was killed by enemies, some of his family members came to the hills of Tatara in the Khyber Agency and laid the foundations for a village named Bara Dara. They felt safe there; at that time the hills were deeply forested, protecting them from enemies. In addition, the forests provided wild fruits and vegetables sufficient for their survival.\n\nThe name Mulagori is derived from \"mulla\" (religious leader) and \"Ghori\" (from Muhammad of Ghor). British colonial governmental records misspelled the word \"Ghori\" as \"Gori\". In his book, \"The Pathan Borderland\", James W. Spain believes the Mulagori to be the descendants of the Mulla Ghor (son of Ba-Yazid Ansari, the Pir Rokhan of the Pakhtuns, and Pir Tarik of the Mughals). The Pashtun historian Bahadur Shah Zafar Kaka Khel, in his book \"Pukhtana da Tarikh pa Ranra key\", is of the opinion that the Mulagori are a subgroup of the Mohmand tribe.\n\nAbdul Latif Yaad in his book \"Pukhtane Qabile\" writes that Mulagori are basically a part of Mohmands. He tells a story that once few persons in Mohmands went somewhere. One of them was a \"mullah\" he separated from them. One of the group members told that Mulla Gorai and after that, the person was known as Mullagoray. He adds that according to Famous Pashto Poet, Hamza Shinwari said Mulagoris are behaving and talking like Mohmands so they are basically a part of the Mohmands.\n\nHowever, some oral sources has further clarified the situation about Mulagori's origin. They opine that Mulagori are in fact a section of Dawezai Momands. In the Dawezai area in Momand Agency, more than 600 Mulagori families still reside. On the basis of this, Mulagori are Mohmand / Momand, and in Momands belongs to Dawezai sub-section. Everywhere Mulagori resides near Momands, and in most cases are in matrimonial relations with them. Historically, Mulagori have remained in a very cordial relations with the other sections of Momands, and have supported each other's causes, in case of tribal wars with other tribes like Afridis etc.\n\nThe forefather of the Mulagori was said to have had four sons, and each son fathered a sub-section of the Mulagori tribe. The four sub-tribes are named for the sons:\n\nSome other sub-tribes were also came into existence like:\n\nThere are about 250 marble factories in the area, which employ not only Mallagori tribesmen but also the residents of nearby villages.\n\nThe Mulagori are underserved in schools built by the Pakistani government. In a population of about 50,000, there is no middle (or high school) for girls and no college for boys. While the Pakistani government built a high school for Mulagori boys in 1975, there is no middle school for girls in the Mulagori area of the Khyber Agency. Although the Frontier Corps has opened a cadet college in the Mulagori area, despite promises no seats are given to Mulagori students. Former governor Iftikhar Hussain Shah promised to build a Higher Secondary School for Mallagori students when he visited Jamrud. Work begun on Lowara Mina High School; after six rooms were built, the government withdrew its support for the remainder of the project.\n"}
{"id": "20043811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20043811", "title": "Najeebullah Anjum", "text": "Najeebullah Anjum\n\nNajeebullah Anjum (born 1955) is a Pakistani film and TV actor. He was born in Peshawar, and grew up there, attending Forward High School and later graduating from Edwardes High School.\n\nAs of 2007 Anjum has worked in over 500 Urdu, Hindko and Pashto TV programmes from all five PTV centres. He earned widespread recognition for his performances in \"Matti Auor Mashkeeza\" and \"Khawab Kem Khawab\", written by Fazal Hussain Sameem and Mustansar Hussain Tarar.\n\nAnjum has also worked in a few films. His debut film was Rauf Khalid's 2003 period drama \"Laaj\". He also acted in Shoaib Mansoor's 2007 contemporary drama \"Khuda Ke Liye\".\n\n\nAnjum was awarded Pride of Performance, the Medal of Excellence in 2005, best PTV actor in 1986, and numerous other local awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "26324418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26324418", "title": "Nicole Hahn Rafter", "text": "Nicole Hahn Rafter\n\nNicole Hahn Rafter (1939–2016; English pronunciation: ni-kohl h-ah-n raf-ter) was a feminist criminology professor at Northeastern University. She received her bachelor of arts degree from Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, achieved her Master of Arts in Teaching from Harvard University, and obtained a Ph.D. in Criminal Justice from State University of New York in Albany. She began her career as a high school and college English professor and switched to criminal justice in her mid-thirties.\n\nIn 1977, Rafter began teaching at Northeastern University's College of Criminal Justice in Boston, Massachusetts. There she developed one of the country's first courses on women and crime as well as a course on crime films. In 1999, she resigned her position as a full-time professor to focus on her writing projects. She continued affiliation with Northeastern University as an adjunct professor overseeing dissertation students, but not teaching regular courses. In 2002 she resumed teaching at the College of Criminal Justice with a graduate course in Biological Theories of Crime.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Rafter began publishing her writings mainly focusing on the female prison system. She argued there have always been differences between the prison systems of the different sexes. She also asserted that academia has focused little on women since the majority of studies were done on male institutions by male writers. She wrote about the history of prisons for women, noting the differences between them and commenting on the effects that gender has on institutions.\n\nIn 1988, Rafter published \"White Trash: the Eugenic Family Studies 1877-1919\", writing about the eugenic movement in the United States and the way in which the poor were shaped as inferior through heredity. At the beginning of the 1990s, Rafter accounted for gender in the eugenic movement in the United States, showing how women were negatively affected with biological notions of being carriers of disease through reproduction.\n\nRafter achieved a Ph.D. in Criminal Justice from State University of New York, Albany, which sparked her academic career in feminist criminology. Thereafter, she began writing about delinquent individuals. Her first publication on this topic was in 1969, with her first group of writings was released throughout the 1980s.\n\nRafter began researching and creating arguments for the feminist cause after her book \"White Trash: the Eugenic Family Studies 1877-1919.\" This led to her 1997 course at Northeastern University entitled Gender, Representation, and Social Control. This served to teach criminology students knowledge of the workings of prison institutions and their reciprocal influences.\n\nIn the 2000s she began focusing on the representation of crime films in mass media and culture. She explored this in her 2006 paper \"Shots in the Mirror: Crime Films and Society\". At the same time, she began research into the biological theories of crime. In 2004 she wrote \"Earnest A. Hooton and the Biological Tradition in American Criminology\", examining the historical importance of Earnest Hooton’s theories of biological explanations of crime while crediting Hooton with building a history for criminology. She also wrote an introduction for Cesare Lombroso’s \"Criminal Women\" in 2004.\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, Rafter published three works relating to crime films and criminology. These works include \"Badfellas: Movie Psychos, Popular Culture, and Law\", \"Shots in the Mirror: Crime Films and Society\", and \"Crime, Film, and Criminology: Recent Sex Crime Movies\". In 2008 she published \"The Criminal Brain: Understanding Biological Theories of Crime\".\n\nRafter contributed extensively to feminist criminology through her historical research of female prison systems, crime films and their social understandings of sex and crime being their reason for gendering. Her work has influenced the ways in which biological crime theorists have studied women. Her work of gender and justice has evolved with feminist criminological thinking.\n\nRafter contributed to feminist criminology through her research and literature on the female prison system starting in 1975. She wrote her last contribution in 1999. Arguing that research and writing at the time only focused on men and was written by men, Rafter led the way in documenting historical gender relations in prisons using, for example, the New York State Prison for Women at Auburn. Another early article Rafter published in 1985 which has been cited six times claims that women in state prisons from 1800-1935 were only given partial justice documenting the differences and the emphasis given to male prison systems. Rafter’s work on female prison systems occurred during the time when feminism was becoming a focal point in critical criminology.\n\nRafter’s contributions to feminist criminology at Northeastern University in particular included her creating the syllabus for one of the first courses on women and crime and crime films. Rafter’s \"Shots in the Mirror: Crime Films and Society\" has been cited a total of twenty-one times which is indicative of her influence. Rafter's syllabus elaborates on how our depiction of on-screen crime in movies actually forms our understanding of everyday crime within society. She argues within this book that crime films produce social hierarchies within crime that are reproduced in everyday life. Depicting, for example, the sexualized female character and the villainous man. Therefore, Rafter greatly contributed to the literature on crime films and their reproduction in everyday crime.\n\nNortheastern University recognizes one of Rafter’s areas of expertise as biological theories of crime. Her historical account of eugenic family studies published in 1988 and, more recently, her book on the biological theories and writings of Earnest A. Hooton, have both been cited five times. Allegedly, Rafter’s most influential contribution to feminist criminology was her re-translation and resource guide to Cesare Lombroso’s \"La Donna Delinquente\" in which she reinterprets women as being inferior and argues, therefore, their committing crimes at a lower level than male offenders. Rafter has shown a large interest in the history of biological theories of crime and her translation of \"Criminal Woman\" persuades advances in further research of the history of criminology specifically surrounding crime and women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34883055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34883055", "title": "Penguin Composition Rules", "text": "Penguin Composition Rules\n\nPenguin Composition Rules were the guidelines written by typographer Jan Tschichold for use in composing the pages and typography of Penguin Books. The rules were embodied in a four-page booklet of typographic instructions for editors and compositors. The booklet includes headings for various aspects of composition: Text Composition; Indenting of Paragraphs; Punctuation Marks and Spelling; Capitals, Small Capitals, and Italics; References and Footnotes; Folios; The Printing of Plays; The Printing of Poetry; Make-up.\n\nBeyond this specific set of guidelines, Tschichold made further changes to Penguin's graphic standards. Penguin is well known for its standardized book covers and formats, as well as the diversity of the standards.\n\nPenguin Books was founded by Allen Lane in 1935. The basic look of Penguin was established before Lane brought Tschichold to Penguin in the late 1940s as head of typography and production. Tschichold was in England at Penguin between 1947 and 1949 before returning to Switzerland.\n\nTschichold's standardization of Penguin covers essentially took existing elements and refined them visually and refined their arrangement. Under Tschichold the covers included the use of Eric Gill's Gill Sans typeface, which he was careful to have spaced evenly. According to Tschichold establishing this quality was not immediately embraced by the compositors; “Every day I had to wade through miles of corrections (often ten books daily). I had a rubber stamp made: ‘Equalize letter-spaces according to their visual value.’ It was totally ignored; the hand compositors continued to space out the capitals on title-pages (where optical spacing is essential) with spaces of equal thickness.”\n\nAlong with Gill Sans, Tschichold made use of Monotype Bembo, Monotype Centaur (by Bruce Rogers) and Gill's Perpetua typeface.\n\nThe covers conformed to the golden ratio (4⅜\" × 7⅛\", 111mm × 181mm). For Penguin's distinctive orange color, Tschichold replaced it with a warmer tone.\n\n\nDoubleday's book was met with severe criticism by Phil Baines in a review published by \"Eye\" magazine. \"Eye\" also published Doubleday's response.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22259685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22259685", "title": "Polygamy in the Central African Republic", "text": "Polygamy in the Central African Republic\n\nWhile polygyny is legal in the Central African Republic, it has been reported that the more well-educated women living in the nation have tended to oppose it, favoring a monogamous marriage instead. The country's legal code allows a man to take up to four wives, but he must decide on the nature of his future marriages before is allowed to contract his first. In other words, if a man plans to marry one to three more women in the future, he must make this clear: otherwise, he will not be allowed to marry additional women if he later changes his mind.\n"}
{"id": "2608527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2608527", "title": "Pulayar", "text": "Pulayar\n\nThe Pulayar (also Pulaya, Pulayas, Cherumar, Cheramar and Cheraman) are one of the notable Community in South India in Hinduism, forming one of the main social groups in modern-day Kerala and Karnataka as well as in historical Tamil Nadu or Tamilakam.\n\nPulayars are noted for their music, craftsmanship, and for certain dances which include \"Kōlam-thullal\", a mask dance which is part of their exorcism rituals, as well as the Mudi-āttam or hair-dance which has its origins in a fertility ritual.\n\nAccording to the 2001 Census, the Pulayan population in Kerala was 1,041,540, being 3.27 per cent of the total population.\n\n\n\nArts of Pulayar caste:\n"}
{"id": "22330799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22330799", "title": "Reinforcement theory", "text": "Reinforcement theory\n\nReinforcement theory is a limited effects media model applicable within the realm of communication. The theory generally states that people seek out and remember information that provides cognitive support for their pre-existing attitudes and beliefs. The main assumption that guides this theory is that people do not like to be wrong and often feel uncomfortable when their beliefs are challenged.\n\nAdditionally, this theory focuses on the behavior to consequence connection within the ABC model. This theory, in management, can also be referred to as operant conditioning or the law of effect. Quite simply, this theory notes that a behavior will continue with a certain level of frequency based on pleasant or unpleasant results.\n\nPolitics provides an excellent setting for the study of reinforcement theory. The statistics on undecided voters indicate that most people have pre-existing beliefs when it comes to politics. Relatively few people remain undecided late into high-profile elections. For example, about a month prior to the 2008 U.S. presidential election, less than one-fifth of likely voters claimed to be undecided (Sidoti, 2008). Much political advertising is targeted at these individuals not only because of their importance in the overall result, but also because they are the most susceptible to political persuasion (Johnson-Cartee & Copeland, 1997).\n\nPart of the reason why undecided voters are frequent message targets can be found in reinforcement theory. Reinforcement theory predicts that people with already developed opinions will selectively attend to and cognitively incorporate information that supports their own views. Reinforcement theory has three primary mechanisms behind it: selective exposure, selective perception, and selective retention.\n\nThe primary basis for the selective exposure assumption can be located within cognitive dissonance theory, although contemporary work (Knobloch-Westerwick, 2014) draws on numerous theories. Basically, this theory states that people do not like to have previously-held beliefs challenged. When individuals encounter information that is discrepant from their own opinions, they seek to resolve the resultant disharmony somehow. People in general do not like to be wrong. A change or shift in attitude is sometimes interpreted as an admission that the original belief was inaccurate or inadequate. To avoid having their opinions challenged, research indicates that people tend to simply avoid information that might be discrepant in nature (Johnson-Cartee and Copeland, 1997). Support for this tendency to avoid dissonant messages can also be found in mood management theory. Basically, this theory states that people expose themselves to stimuli that are pleasurable and avoid stimuli that might induce a negative reaction (Zillman & Bryant, 1985).\n\nThe selective exposure phenomenon focuses on how people manage to avoid incongruent information and primarily encounter information that supports predispositions. Obviously, most are not able to completely avoid all potentially challenging information. In these cases, message receivers may outright reject dissonant messages (Wheeless, 1974). The reasons for rejection are varied and plentiful. For example, the person might justify message rejection by attacking the source's credibility.\n\nA topic as emotional and involving as political preference is especially subject to the selective exposure phenomenon. In fact, Lazarsfeld, Berelson, and Gaudet (1948) found selective exposure early on to be a necessary link in their theory that campaigns primarily reinforce and activate preexisting political notions. The ever-increasing number of media options further facilitates the public's ability to selectively expose themselves to desired media messages. The explosion of the Internet has put the individual in the driver's seat with regard to what kind of information s/he will encounter. McLeod, Kosicki, and McLeod (2002) stated that information selection and \"exposure is much more specialized and individualized\" (p. 221) in the era of the World Wide Web. Furthermore, cable channel options continue to multiply with specific, niche target audiences in mind. Some researchers worry that this increased level of fragmentation makes it possible for people to effectively avoid diverse viewpoints and perspectives (McLeod, Kosicki, & McLeod, 2002). If a person limits his/her information acquisition to that which is only consistent with a personal point of view, s/he will surely not contribute to a fully informed electorate.\n\nIt is not possible to completely avoid all discrepant messages. When exposure to a dissonant message has occurred, the phenomenon of selective perception often follows. This process simply means that people skew their perceptions to coincide with what they desire (Johnson-Cartee & Copeland, 1997). Perception is subjective and dependent on several factors; one factor, for example, is media type. Prior research indicates that people who actively process television news tend to engage in more individualized explanations of an event as opposed to those active processors of newspapers (McLeod, Kosicki, & McLeod, 2002). The selective perception discussed here, however, is done in order to reduce dissonance with previously held beliefs (Wheeless, 1974). Several communication theories use this assumption of skewed perception as their basis (i.e., hostile media phenomenon, third-person effect).\n\nIn the political realm, selective perception often occurs when a voter is presented with a candidate position that he or she does not agree with but supports the candidate otherwise. Sherrod (1971) found that \"voters preferring a particular candidate do selectively perceive that candidate's position on an issue in such a way as to make it consistent with their own\" (p. 554). He pinpointed three primary reasons why the initial disagreement happens. First, the candidate and voter may share political party affiliation, but may not agree on all of the issues. Second, the voter may simply be unaware of the candidate's actual position. Third, social pressure to take a particular stand on an issue may exist that causes the voter to be incongruent with his or her preferred candidate (Sherrod, 1971). Selective Perception is not only associated with the voter and the candidate they affiliate with. Selective perception is also seen when someone attacks a political opponent by focusing on a particular issue they disagree with. Voters will ignore any common stances on issues with the opposition, and thus scorch the opponent on one main idea (Falcon, 2012). An example of political selective perception can be seen in Barry Ritholtz's Politics and Selective Perception chart. In this chart, we are given the unemployment numbers at specific points in time under different House Majorities. Selective perception allows the user to view this chart in any way they feel is deemed correct, though the chart doesn't reveal really anything about politics or unemployment (Ritholtz, 2010).\n\nAccording to Sherrod (1971), there are three potential actions the voter may take to reduce dissonance in this situation. First, the voter may learn about the candidate's stand on the issue and then change either his or her opinion of the candidate or alter his or her own position on the issue in question to bring them in line. Second, the voter may still choose to disagree with the preferred candidate's position and instead will lessen the issue's personal importance. Last, the voter may engage in selective perception and actually misperceive the candidate's position to align better with the voter's own stand than it actually does. This does not require any change in attitude regarding either the candidate or the issue on the part of the voter. Sherrod's (1971) research found the third option to occur with the greatest frequency: he found that voters most often selectively misperceive a candidate's position on an issue rather than either change one's own view or relegate the issue to a status of lesser importance.\n\nThe final mechanism behind reinforcement theory has to do with selective retention and recall. This phenomenon occurs when \"people remember only those items that are in agreement with their predispositions\" (Johnson-Cartee & Copeland, 1997, 94). The ease with which a person can recall information impacts the level and intensity of judgment related to the topic. For example, people who can easily recall an example related to the message are more likely to make an intense judgment about it (Shrum, 2002).\n\nIn general, most people are unable to accurately recall current event information presented on the news. Gunter (1991) found that only about 5% of television news viewers could accurately recall details of what they saw a short time after the newscast. Audience factors such as education and socio-economic status also affect recall ability (Surlin & Gordon, 1976). Although additional variables such as news presentation and format affect information retention, people generally can better remember messages that are consistent with their own attitudes and beliefs (Wheeless, 1974). Surlin and Gordon (1976) found that political information in particular is more readily retained and summoned up when it supports preexisting beliefs and political opinions. Information that threatens such beliefs is more easily forgotten or lost. This phenomenon also extends to political advertising. Prior research found that a candidate's supporters could more easily bring to mind his/her political ad than the opponent's.\n\nMoving away from politics and toward business organizational management, Stajkovic and Luthans (1997) \"\"A Meta-Analysis of the Effects of Organizational Behavior Modification on Task Performance 1975-1995\".\nillustrates that the classical behaviors that Watson(1913) and Pavlov (1927) and reinforcement theory (Ferster & Skinner (1957), Skinner (1938,1966, 1969) and how behavior modification techniques can be applied to the human resources management within corporate organizational settings. The below model provides a five-step application framework identifying, measuring, analyzing, contingently intervening in, and evaluating employee's task-related behaviors aimed at performance improvement.(Luthens & Krietner (1975, 1985)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40669338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40669338", "title": "Relaciones geográficas", "text": "Relaciones geográficas\n\nThese questionnaires had upward of fifty questions that requested information on various aspects of the Spanish colonial life in each region or major town, in order to govern it more effectively. Thus, these questionnaires had more of an administrative and functional purpose as opposed to intellectual gain. These questionnaires are often times considered the first statistical study of the New World, since they attempted to chart the lands, peoples, and trade routes. The value of these questionnaires continues to grow over time due to these surveys being first-person information.\n\nThese extensive questionnaires have provided incredibly rich information with regard to 16th century ethnic groups in Mesoamerica. These questionnaires included questions regarding politics, taxes paid, the natural environment and resources, population history, settlement patterns, the language, markets and trade, native history and customs, maps, and the progress of the “missionization” program. These maps were created by indigenous people, sailors, local officials, and other individuals in New Spain. Some of these maps that were requested were often commissioned by artists and have now been linked to the Casta paintings of the period.\n\nThese surveys were reported back to Spain’s King Phillip II and allowed the Spanish monarchy to have better control over the people and the politics in New Spain. However, not all major cities and regions are accounted for because not all local officials returned the questionnaire or perhaps their response did not survive. Along with this, since all people were allowed to send in a map it showed the bias of each social class and represented common issues of the time. Nevertheless, this scientific process of data collection and statistics essentially built a bridge between two continents. \n\nToday, many of the manuscript versions of these questionnaires are found in four different locations: The General Archive of the Indies in Seville, the Real Academia de la Historia in Madrid, the Benson Library at the University of Texas at Austin, and the University of Glasgow Library.\n"}
{"id": "16124297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16124297", "title": "Sapo language", "text": "Sapo language\n\nThe Sapo language, also known as Sarpo or Southern Krahn, is a Kru language of the Niger–Congo language family. It is spoken in eastern Liberia, primarily in Grand Gedeh County and Sinoe County, by the Sapo people. Its dialects include: Juarzon, Kabade (Karbardae), Nomopo (Nimpo), Putu, Sinkon (Senkon), and Waya (Wedjah).\n\n"}
{"id": "25565261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25565261", "title": "Shaikh of Rajasthan", "text": "Shaikh of Rajasthan\n\nThe Shaikh of the Indian state of Rajasthan are part of the wider Shaikh community of South Asia. They form the largest single Muslim community of the state. Many members of Rajasthani Shaikh community have also migrated to Pakistan after independence and have settled in Karachi, Sindh.\n\nThe word Shaikh (), can means an elder of a tribe, a lord, a revered old man, or Islamic scholar. In Rajasthan, the Shaikh community as elsewhere in South Asia are descendents of the converts of Vaishya and Brahmin communities to Islam. They speak Mewari among themselves, and Urdu with outsiders. The Shaikh are found mainly in the districts of Ajmer, Udaipur and Jodhpur. Their main sub-divisions are the Silawat and Rangrez.\n\nThe community is endogamous, and they practice both parallel cousin and cross-cousin marriages. Their main occupation is trade, and many are now engaged in the sale of textiles and gold. Some of the Shaikh own land, and are cultivators. In addition, some Shaikh have an expertise in cloth printing and wall painting. They are Sunni Muslims and a fairly orthodox.\n"}
{"id": "7218707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7218707", "title": "Subtitle (titling)", "text": "Subtitle (titling)\n\nIn books and other works, a subtitle is an explanatory or alternate title. As an example, Mary Shelley gave her most famous novel the title \"Frankenstein; or, the Modern Prometheus\"; by using the subtitle \"the Modern Prometheus\", she references the Greek Titan as a hint of the novel's themes.\n\nIn English, subtitles were traditionally denoted and separated from the title proper by the conjunction \"or\", perhaps hinting at their function as an alternate title. A more modern usage is to simply separate the subtitle by punctuation, making the subtitle more of a continuation or sub-element of the title proper.\n\nSubtitles for plays were fashionable in the Elizabethan era; William Shakespeare parodied this vogue by giving \"Twelfth Night\" his only subtitle, the deliberately uninformative \"What You Will\", implying that the subtitle can be whatever the audience wants it to be. In printing, subtitles often appear below the title in a less prominent typeface or following the title after a colon.\n\nSome modern publishers choose to forgo subtitles when republishing historical works, such as Shelley's famous story, which is often now sold simply as \"Frankenstein\".\n\nIn library cataloging the subtitle does not include an alternate title which is defined as part of the title proper; e.g. \"\" would be filed as \"\"One Good Turn\" (title proper) \"A Natural History of the Screwdriver and the Screw\" (subtitle)\", while \"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\" would be filed as \"\"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\" (title proper)\".\n\nIn film, this has been used in films such as \"\" and \"Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance)\".\n\nSubtitles are also used to distinguish different installments in a series, instead of or in addition to a number, such as: \"\", the second in the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" series; \"\", the third in the \"Mario Kart\" series; and \"\", the second in the \"Star Trek\" series.\n"}
{"id": "1120654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1120654", "title": "Tareen", "text": "Tareen\n\nThe Tareen (or Tarin) () is a tribe of Western Pashtun who inhabit Southern Afghanistan, the Balochistan province of Pakistan and Hazara region of northwestern Pakistan.\n\nLittle is known of the Tareen prior to Muhammad Ghori's incursions into India in the late 12th century. However, much of the tribe is still living a mostly nomadic life in their native lands of Afghanistan and Pishin(Present Pakistan).\n\nThe Tareen people identify with descent from Sharkbun, a grandson of Qais Abdur Rasheed. Tareen had three sons, Tor, Speen and Abdal (Durrani). The descendants of spin settled in Dukki, Balochistan, Pakistan. The descendants of tor settled in Pishin Balochistan. Abdali-Durrani was an ancestor of the people of Afghanistan.\n\nSher Shah Suri brought the Tareen from the Pashtun lands to parts of central and northern India such as Bhagalpur, Bihar and regions of contemporary Pakistan.\n\nAt the time of Akbar the Great, Alaf Khan was a Tareen leader in Bhagalpur. He was a Mansabdar (government official) of the \"Chahr Hazari\" rank.\n\nDuring the reign of the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan (1628 to 1658) a group of Tareen/Tarin from Tarin Kowt emigrated to the area which is now the Hazara area of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. Later on, in about 1750, when Ahmad Shah Abdali, ruler of the Durrani Empire made incursions into northwestern India, a contingent of Tareen from this area was raised to fight in the Third Battle of Panipat, against the Maratha Empire, in January 1761.\n\nFrom 1820 to 1849, Punjab came under Sikh control. The Tareen people resisted occupation with sometimes severe consequences.\n\nOn 29 March 1849, the British annexed Punjab. Initially, the Tareen resisted. Later, the Tareen reconciled themselves to the new situation and gradually found service with the British Raj. The Tareen worked in the military and civil administration.\n\nAccording to Neamet Ullah in \"History of the Pashtuns\", Tareen, had three sons after which the branches of the Tareen descendants are named: Tor, Speen (Aspin or Spin) and Abdal (Durrani).\n\nThe Abdal are divided into the Zirak, and the Panjpai. The Abdal became known as the Durrani.\n\nThe principal languages of Tareen is Pashto and while those living in Hazara Division of Pakistan have adopted Hindko. Persian was once used as a formal language for official records and correspondence. Until the late 1800s, tombstones were also inscribed in Persian. Tareen who have settled away from Pishin have adopted their local languages but some remain bilingual.\n\nIn the 1600 and 1700s, Tareen people of Tor descent of the Batezai clan moved to the Haripur District of the Hazara region of Khyber Pukhtunkhwa and established themselves there In the Hazara area, the Tareen people have adopted the ways of the people of the Hazara region.\n\nSmall populations of the Tareen have settled in India since the 1100s, particularly near Bhopal and in Sambhal (Sarai Tareen) Uttar Pradesh.\n\nTareens in Afghanistan are found in provinces like Kandahar, Oruzgan, Helmand, Herat, Nangarhar, Ghazni, Logar, Kabul, Kunduz etc. In Oruzgan there is a town and provincial capital named Tareenkot. In Afghanistan the highest number of Tareens are of Bor Or abdali Tareen clan (e.g. now mostly known as Durrani after Ahmed shah Abdali) and than comes Tor Tareens number along with some Spin Tareens residing in few areas of Afghanistan and other Tareen branches.\n\nTareens in Balochistan reside in areas of Pishin, Harnai, Dukki, Gulistan, Ziarat, Quetta, and Mastung.\n\n"}
{"id": "53566022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53566022", "title": "The Economic Liberty Act of Georgia, 2011", "text": "The Economic Liberty Act of Georgia, 2011\n\nThe Economic Liberty Act of Georgia was adopted by the Parliament of Georgia in 2011. The act was introduced by President Mikheil Saakashvili in September 2009, as a way of enacting principles based on the Rose Revolution. The act has been in force since January 1, 2014.\n\nThe Parliament of Georgia passed The Economic Liberty Act (ELA) in December 2011. Unlike the initial draft, the final act (a constitutional amendment) contained a reservation which states that a separate Organic Law should define those cases in which the government will still be able to increase taxes without calling a referendum. The Economic Liberty Act is the Organic Law of Georgia and is based on the 4th and 5th parts of Article 94 of the Constitution of Georgia (Constitutional Law of Georgia No 4033 of July 1, 2011).\n\nThe act restricted the government from making changes to major economic policy without a popular referendum. It capped the government expenditures at 64% of the GDP, the debt to GDP ratio at 60%, and the budget deficit at 3% of the GDP. Some of these rules were known as the Maastricht criteria, enshrined in the EU Stability and Growth Pact and facilitating the smooth transition to the Eurozone. \n\nThe act is intended to restrict the state’s ability to interfere in the affairs of the economy and grant power over tax changes to the people directly. While aiming at reducing the state expenses and debt by 30 and 60 percent respectively, it also explicitly prohibits the government from manipulating taxes without a popular referendum on rates and structure. Currently, the state budget is approximately 30% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and public debt is over 38% of the GDP.\n"}
{"id": "26552365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26552365", "title": "Tour de Nesle affair", "text": "Tour de Nesle affair\n\nThe Tour de Nesle affair was a scandal amongst the French royal family in 1314, during which Margaret, Blanche, and Joan, the daughters-in-law of King Philip IV, were accused of adultery. The accusations were apparently started by Philip's daughter, Isabella. The \"Tour de Nesle\" was a tower in Paris where much of the adultery was said to have occurred. The scandal led to torture, executions and imprisonments, with lasting consequences for the final years of the House of Capet.\n\nThe royal scandal occurred at the end of the difficult reign of Philip IV, known as \"le Bel\" (the Fair) because of his good looks. Philip IV was a strangely unemotional man; the contemporary bishop of Pamiers described him as \"neither a man nor a beast, but a statue\"; modern historians have noted that he \"cultivated a reputation for Christian kingship and showed few weaknesses of the flesh.\" Throughout his reign, Philip had attempted to build up the authority and prestige of the French crown, raising fresh revenues, creating new institutions of government, engaging in wars against his rivals, and on occasion challenging the authority of the Church. Just before the crisis broke, Philip had been engaged in the liquidation of the order of the Knights Templar in France. By 1314, however, he was financially overstretched and in an increasingly difficult domestic political situation, and some have suggested that his weakened position contributed to the subsequent royal crisis.\n\nPhilip IV had three sons, Louis, Philip and Charles. As was customary for the period, all three were married with an eye for political gain. Initially Philip had intended for Louis to marry Joan, the eldest daughter of Otto IV, Count of Burgundy, but in the end chose Margaret, the daughter of Robert II, Duke of Burgundy, in 1305, and arranged for his middle son Philip to marry Joan in 1307. His youngest son Charles married Blanche, another of Otto's daughters, in 1308.\n\nThe three marriages had fared differently. Louis' is considered to have been an unhappy match; Louis, known as \"the Quarreler\" and \"the Headstrong\", is said to have preferred playing real tennis to spending time with the \"feisty and shapely\" Margaret. Charles, a relatively conservative, \"strait-laced\" and \"stiff-necked\" individual, had an unexceptional marriage. Philip, in contrast, became noted for his unusual generosity to his wife Joan; the pair had a considerable number of children in a short space of time and Philip wrote numerous, if formulaic, love letters to his wife over the years.\n\nMeanwhile, Philip the Fair married his daughter, Isabella, to Edward II of England in 1308 in an attempt to resolve the tensions of his twin problems of conflict over the contested territories of Gascony and Flanders. Isabella's marriage proved difficult, largely due to Edward's intimate relationship with his close friend and possible lover, Piers Gaveston. Isabella looked frequently to her father for help addressing the problems in her English marriage.\n\nMost accounts of the scandal begin with the visit of the king and queen of England to the queen's father in France during 1313. During the visit, Louis and Charles had had a satirical puppet show put on for their guests, and after this Isabella had given new embroidered purses both to her brothers and to their wives. Later in the year, Isabella and Edward held a large dinner in London to celebrate their return and Isabella apparently noticed that the purses she had given to her sisters-in-law were now being carried by two Norman knights, Walter of Aunay (also known as Gautier of Aunay) and Philip of Aunay. Isabella concluded that the pair must have been carrying on an illicit affair, and appears to have informed her father of this during her next visit to France in 1314.\n\nPhilip IV placed the knights under surveillance for a period, and the scandal began to take shape. The accusations centred on suggestions that Blanche and Margaret had been drinking, eating and engaging in adultery with Gautier and Philip of Aunay in the \"Tour de Nesle\" over a period. The \"Tour de Nesle\" was an old guard tower in Paris next to the river Seine and had been bought by Philip IV in 1308. The third sister-in-law, Joan, was initially said to have been present on some of these occasions and to have known of the affair; later accusations were extended to have included suggestions that she had also been involved in adultery herself.\n\nMost historians have tended to conclude that the accusations against Blanche and Margaret were probably true, although some are more skeptical. Some accounts have suggested that Isabella's accusations were politically motivated; she had just given birth to her son, Edward, and in theory the removal of all three of her sisters-in-law might have made his accession to the French throne more likely. Others have argued that this seems an unlikely plan, given the normal probability that at least one of the three brothers would have successfully remarried and enjoyed a male heir in the coming years. Some contemporary chroniclers suggested that Philip IV's unpopular chamberlain\nEnguerrand de Marigny might have been responsible for framing the knights and women involved.\n\nFollowing the period of surveillance, Philip IV broke the news of the accusations publicly and arrested all involved. There are some suggestions that Walter and Philip of Aunay attempted to escape to England but in due course both knights were interrogated and tortured by French officials. Both confessed to adultery and were found guilty, therefore, of \"lèse majesté\". Blanche and Margaret were tried before the \"Paris Parlement\" and found guilty of adultery. The two women had their heads shaven and were sentenced to life imprisonment. Joan was also tried before the \"Parlement\" but was found innocent, partially as a result of her husband Philip's influence.\n\nThe \"Tour de Nesle\" scandal led to the imprisonment of Blanche and Margaret, and the execution of their lovers. Having been tortured, the guilty knights Gautier and Philippe were then killed; most histories agree that they were first castrated and then either drawn and quartered or flayed alive, broken on a wheel and then hanged. The episode came as a severe shock to Philip IV and some suggest that it contributed to his death later that same year. Isabella was criticized by some in France for failing to stand by her sisters-in-law, although this passed with time; Isabella's own marriage failed catastrophically in due course, with many historians believing that she was responsible for the murder of her husband Edward in 1327 after Isabella's seizure of power in England with her lover Roger de Mortimer in 1326.\n\nDue to the gap in the papacy between the death of Clement V in 1314 and the election of John XXII in 1316, Margaret's marriage to Louis could not be annulled, and she was imprisoned in an underground cell at Château Gaillard castle. Louis succeeded to the throne later that year after the death of Philip IV, being officially crowned in August 1315. Margaret, however, was still alive but promptly died under suspicious circumstances, possibly murdered, on 14 August, whilst still imprisoned. Louis remarried five days later to Clementia of Hungary, the niece of Louis' own uncle and close advisor, Charles of Valois. Louis himself died a year later after falling ill following a challenging game of tennis.\n\nJoan was placed under house arrest at Dourdan in the aftermath of the \"Parlement\" acquittal amidst suggestions that she might also have been having an adulterous affair herself, but enjoyed the continuing support of her husband, Philip. Philip campaigned for her release, which was forthcoming the next year and Joan returned to court. It is unclear why Philip stood by her in the way that he did. One theory has been that he was concerned that if he was to abandon Joan, he might also lose Burgundy, which he had gained through their marriage; another theory suggests that he was in truth very deeply in love with her. With the death after a few days of the baby King John I of France, Joan served as Philip's queen consort for several years; after Philip's death, she inherited the County of Artois from her mother and finally died in 1330.\n\nBlanche remained in prison at Château Gaillard as well for eight years until 1322, when Charles assumed the throne. Upon becoming king, Charles still refused to release Blanche, instead annulling their marriage and having Blanche consigned to a nunnery. Charles remarried immediately afterwards to Marie of Luxembourg; Blanche died the next year, her health broken from the years spent underground.\n\nThe affair badly damaged the reputation of women in senior French circles, contributing to the way that the Salic Law was implemented during subsequent arguments over the succession to the throne. When Louis died unexpectedly in 1316, supporters of his eldest daughter Joan found that suspicions hung over her parentage following the scandal and that the French nobility were increasingly cautious over the concept of a woman inheriting the throne – Louis' brother, Philip took power instead. Philip died unexpectedly young as well, and his younger brother Charles did not live long after remarrying after his coronation, similarly dying without male heirs. The interpretation of the Salic Law then placed the French succession in doubt. Despite Philip of Valois, the son of Charles of Valois, claiming the throne with French noble support, Edward III of England, the son of Isabella was able to press his own case, resulting in the ensuing Hundred Years War (1337–1453).\n\nThe affair would also have an impact in European culture. Scholars studying the theme of courtly love have observed that the narratives about adulterous queens die out shortly after the \"Tour de Nesle\" scandal, suggesting that they became less acceptable or entertaining after the executions and imprisonments in the French royal family. The story of the affair was used by the French dramatist Alexandre Dumas as the basis for his play \"La Tour de Nesle\" in 1832, \"a romantic thriller reconstructing medieval crimes on a grand scale\". The \"Tour de Nesle\" guard-tower itself was destroyed in 1665. \"Le Roi de fer\" (1955), the first novel of Maurice Druon's seven-volume series \"Les Rois maudits\" (\"The Accursed Kings\"), describes the affair and the subsequent executions in lurid and imaginative detail.\n\n"}
{"id": "26013911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26013911", "title": "Tunumiit dialect", "text": "Tunumiit dialect\n\nTunumiit oraasiat or East Greenlandic (Kalaallisut: \"tunumiusut\", East Greenlandic: \"tunumiisut\") is a variety of Greenlandic spoken in eastern Greenland by the Tunumiit. It is generally considered a divergent dialect of Greenlandic, but verges on being a distinct language. The largest town where it is the primary language is Tasiilaq on Ammassalik Island, with the Island's name being derived from the West Greenlandic name of the town.\n"}
{"id": "26632028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26632028", "title": "Wagher", "text": "Wagher\n\nThe Wagher caste is found in the state of Gujarat in India. They are also known as Vaghers, they are Rajput born and one of the brave caste but have no connection with the Vager tribe.\n\nThe Waghers are principally found in Devbhumi Dwarka district. & Jamnagar district. They are said to have migrated from Kutch, and their ancestor Jam Hamirji Jadeja, a Rajput from Kutch married a Garasia girl from Padli near Hamusar. Situated at Gopi road. They are Hindu as well as Muslim by religion. The community is thus one of the many mixed Rajput groups such as the Khant found in Saurashtra region.\n\nThe community still speak Kutchi, and are endogamous. They have several clans, the main ones being the Kamora,Manek,Hathal, vagha,Ker,kara,bhiyani,hadani,jodhani,punsiya,Sumaniya, Jam, Maliyani, Bhathad, Bathiya, Gohil, Parmar, Gad, Giggla, Mapani, Tilayat, Bhaya, Makawana, Sameja, Notiyar, Bhatti, Bhagad, Bhaya etc. The community maintain the practice of clan exogamy. They are a major landowning community in the Devbhumi Dwarka district. The community is mainly into Farming, Seafaring, Fishing (Muslim Wagher) etc and also like other Gujarat castes, they have migrated to other parts of India and overseas in search of work.\n\n"}
{"id": "47210395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47210395", "title": "Women in aviation", "text": "Women in aviation\n\nWomen have been involved in aviation from the beginnings of both lighter-than air travel and as airplanes, helicopters and space travel were developed. Women pilots were also called \"aviatrices\" (singular: \"aviatrix\"). Women have been flying powered aircraft since 1908, however most, prior to 1970, were restricted to working privately or in support roles in the aviation industry. Aviation also allowed women to \"travel alone on unprecedented journeys.\" Women who have been successful in various aviation fields have served as mentors to younger women, helping them along in their careers.\n\nWithin the first two decades of powered flight, women on every continent except Antarctica had begun to fly, perform in aerial shows, parachute, and even transport passengers. They were increasingly involved in establishing distance records, aerobatic records and pressing for airplanes to be used for disaster and public health services. During World War II, women from every continent helped with war efforts and though mostly restricted from military flight many of the female pilots flew in auxiliary services. In the 1950s and 1960s, women were primarily restricted to serving in support fields like flight simulation training, air traffic control, and as flight attendants. Since the 1970s, women have been allowed to participate in military service in most countries.\n\nWomen's participation in the field of aviation has increased over the years. In the United States, in 1930, there were around 200 women pilots but in five years there were more than 700. Women of Aviation Worldwide Week has reported that after 1980, the increase in gender parity for women pilots in the United States has been stagnant. Women flying commercial airlines in India make up 11.6% of all pilots. The global number of women airline pilots is 87%.\n\nThe first woman known to fly was Élisabeth Thible, who was a passenger in an untethered hot air balloon, which flew above Lyon, France in 1784. Four years later, Jeanne Labrosse became the first woman to fly solo in a balloon and would become the first woman to parachute, as well. Sophie Blanchard took her first balloon flight in 1804, was performing as a professional aeronaut by 1810 and was made Napoleon's chief of air service in 1811. Blanchard, the first woman who was a professional in the air, died in a spectacular crash in 1819. In June 1903, Aida de Acosta, an American woman vacationing in Paris, convinced Alberto Santos-Dumont, pioneer of dirigibles to allow her to pilot his airship, becoming probably the first woman to pilot a motorized aircraft.\n\nThe first machine-powered flight was accomplished by the Wright Brothers on December 17, 1903. Both brothers felt that it was important to recognize the contributions of Katherine Wright to their work. She found teachers who could help with the Wright's flying experiments. Katherine, while she didn't fly with her brothers until later in 1909, knew \"everything about the working of their machines.\" Katherine supported them financially, giving them her savings and also supported them emotionally. When Orville Wright was injured in 1908, Katherine moved close to the hospital to take care of him. Later, after the Wright brothers patented their aircraft in 1906, she worked as their executive secretary. In 1909, she traveled to Europe to become the social manager for her brothers. Her brothers were very introverted and relied on Katherine to help promote their work. Katherine was considered the \"silent partner\" of the Wright Brothers by \"The World Magazine\". The \"Saint Louis Post-Dispatch\" called her the \"inspiration of her brothers in their experiments.\"\nStarting 1906, another inventor of aircraft, Emma Lilian Todd began designing her own airplanes. Todd first started studying dirigibles before she moved onto designing airplanes. Todd's first plane flew in 1910 and was piloted by Didier Masson. A woman who was an early parachutist, Georgia \"Tiny\" Broadwick started working with barnstormer, Charles Broadwick at age 15 in 1908. She made her first jump in 1908, and in 1913, became the first woman to jump from an aircraft. Broadwick, in 1914, was also the person who gave the first demonstrations of parachute jumping to the United States government. When she retired in 1922, she had completed 1,100 jumps.\n\nThe first woman passenger in an airplane was Mlle P. Van Pottelsberghe de la Poterie who flew with Henri Farman on several short flights at an airshow in Ghent, Belgium between May and June 1908. Soon after, in July, 1908, sculptor Thérèse Peltier was taken up as a passenger by Léon Delagrange and within a few months had been reported as making a solo flight in Turin, Italy, flying around 200 meters in a straight line about two and a half meters off the ground. Edith Berg, an American, who flew as a passenger with Wilbur Wright in Paris in October 1908, was the inspiration of the hobble skirt designed by Paul Poiret. \n\nEarly pioneers include French Raymonde de Laroche, the world's first licensed female pilot on March 8, 1910. Seven other French women followed her, earning pilot's licenses within the next year. One of these, Marie Marvingt, 3rd Frenchwoman licensed for airplanes, but first French woman balloonist licensed in 1901, became the first woman to fly in combat completing bombing raids over Germany. Marvingt tried to get the government to outfit air ambulances prior to the war and became the world first certified Flight Nurse. Hélène Dutrieu became the first woman pilot in Belgium, obtaining the 27th license issued in her country in 1910 and the second female licensed in Europe. Later that same year, she became the first woman to fly with a passenger. In 1910, even before she earned her pilot's license, Lilian Bland a British woman living in Northern Ireland, designed and flew a glider in Belfast.\n\nBlanche Scott always claimed to be the first American woman to fly an airplane, but as she was seated when a gust of wind took her up on her brief flight in September 1910, the \"accidental\" flight went unrecognized. Within two years, she had established herself as a daredevil pilot and was known as the \"Tomboy of the Air\", competing in air shows and exhibitions, as well as flying circuses. On October 13, 1910, Bessica Raiche received a gold medal from the Aeronautical Society of New York, recognizing her as the first American woman to make a solo flight. Harriet Quimby became the USA's first licensed female pilot on August 1, 1911 and the first woman to cross the English Channel by airplane the following year. Thirteen days after Quimby, her friend Matilde E. Moisant an American of French Canadian descent was licensed and began flying in air shows. She broke a world altitude record in 1911. \n\nWithin a fortnight, had obtained the first female Russian license and by 1914 she performed the first aerobatic loop made by a woman. Hilda Hewlett became the first British woman to earn a pilot's license on August 29, 1911 and taught her son to fly that same year. In September 1910, Melli Beese became Germany's first woman pilot and the following year began designing her first airplane which was produced in 1913. On October 10, 1911, Božena Laglerová a Czech native of Prague, obtained the first Austrian license for a woman and nine days later secured the second German license for a woman. On 7 December 1910 Jane Herveu, who had previously been involved in automobile racing was licensed in France and began participating in the Femina Cup.\n\nRosina Ferrario, first female pilot of Italy, earned her license on January 3, 1913 and was as unsuccessful as Marvingt had been to get her government or the Red Cross to allow women to transport wounded soldiers during World War I. Elena Caragiani-Stoenescu, Romania's first woman pilot got the same response from her government about flying for the war effort and turned to journalism. On December 1, 1913, Lyubov Golanchikova signed a contract to become the first female test pilot. She agreed to test \"Farman-22\" aircraft manufactured in the Chervonskaya airplane workshop of The first woman on the African Continent to earn a pilot's license was Ann Maria Bocciarelli of Kimberley, South Africa.\n\nIn 1916, Zhang Xiahun () became China's first female pilot when she attended an airshow of the Nanyuan Aviation School and insisted that she be allowed to fly. After circling the field, tossing flowers, she crashed, becoming a national heroine when she survived. Katherine Stinson became the first woman air mail pilot, when the United States Postal Service contracted her to fly mail from Chicago to New York City in 1918. The following year, Ruth Law flew the first official U.S. air mail to the Philippines.\n\nWomen were also involved in teaching others how to fly. Hilda Hewlett and Gustave Blondeau teamed up in 1910 to start the first flying school in England, The Hewlett-Blondeau School. The school had only one plane with which to instruct students and was open for two years. , the second German woman to earn a pilot's license, worked as a manager of a flying school in 1913.\n\nBoth men and women after World War I were able to purchase \"surplus and decommissioned planes.\" Wanting to fly, but with little demand after the war, pilots purchased the planes and went from town to town offering rides. Creating attractions to bring in crowds, these daredevils performed stunts, loops and began wing walking to attract more customers. The aerialists and pilots formed flying circuses sending promoters ahead of them to hang posters promoting their dangerous feats.\n\nIn 1920, Phoebe Fairgrave, later Omlie, at the age of eighteen determined to make her aviation career as a stuntwoman. By 1921, she had broken the world parachute drop record and worked as a wing walker for the Fox Moving Picture Company's \"The Perils of Pauline\" series. By 1927, Omlie earned the first transport pilots license and airplane mechanics license issued to a woman. Another stuntwoman, Ethel Dare had perfected walking from one plane to another by 1920, the first woman to perform the feat.\n\nBessie Coleman was the first African American woman to become a licensed airplane pilot in 1921. The following year, Japan's first woman pilot Tadashi Hyōdō earned her license. Kwon Ki-ok of Korea became the first female licensee of that country in 1925 and after World War II, became instrumental in helping establish the Republic of Korea Air Force. German Marga von Etzdorf was the first woman to fly for an airline when she began co-piloting for Lufthansa in 1927 and piloting solo on commercial Junkers F13 on 1 February 1928.In the late 1920s, women continued to compete in air races and record-breaking contests related to flying. In 1929, Pancho Barnes moved to Hollywood to work as the first woman stunt pilot. Besides working on such films as Howard Hughes' \"Hell's Angels\" (1930), she also founded the Associated Motion Pictures Pilots Union in 1931. The first Women's Air Derby or Powder Puff Derby, an official women-only race from Santa Monica, California to Cleveland, Ohio, was held as part of the 1929 National Air Races and was won by Louise Thaden.\nMarie Marvingt of France, who had first proposed the idea of using airplanes as ambulances in 1912 continued to promote her idea successfully in the 1920s. During the French colonial wars, Marvingt evacuated injured military personnel with \"Aviation Sanitaire\", a flying ambulance service. Canadian Elsie MacGill became the first woman to earn a master's degree in aeronautical engineering in 1929. On November 2, 1929, at Curtiss Field in Valley Stream, New York, 26 women pilots gathered and formed an international organization to provide mutual support for advancing women pilots and named themselves The Ninety-Nines, after the number or charter members.\n\nThe 1929 stock market crash and ensuing depression, coupled with more stringent safety regulations, caused many of the flying circuses and barnstorming circuits to fold. During the decade, options for women pilots in the United States were limited mainly to sales, marketing, racing and barnstorming and being an instructor pilot. In 1930, Ellen Church, a pilot and nurse, who was unable to secure work flying proposed to airline executives that women be allowed to act as hostesses on planes. She was hired on a three-month trial basis by Boeing Air Transport and selected the first seven flight attendants for airlines, requiring them to be under 115 pounds, nurses and unmarried.\n\nWomen continued to break records. In 1930, Amy Johnson an English aviator, made the first England to Australia flight by a woman. Antonie Strassmann, a German emigre to the US, became the first woman to successfully cross the Atlantic aboard an aircraft, traveling in May 1932 with a team on a Dornier Do X flying boat . In the fall of 1932, Strassmann piloted a Zeppelin from Germany to Pernambuco in Brazil. American Amelia Earhart, the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic (1932). Earhart became a public favorite among aviators of the time. Earhart also urged the public to encourage and enable young women to become airplane pilots themselves. In 1936 and 1937, she taught students at Purdue University which was \"one of the few U.S. colleges to offer aviation classes to women\". \n\nHazel Ying Lee, a dual American-Chinese citizen, earned her pilot's license in 1932 in the United States. She went to China to volunteer to serve in the Chinese Army after the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, but was rejected due to her sex. She flew commercial aircraft in Canton until returning to the United States in 1937. Joining the WASPS, in 1943, she delivered planes for the military until she was killed in service in 1944. In 1933 Lotfia ElNadi became the first Egyptian woman and first Arab woman to earn a pilot's license. That same year, Marina Raskova became the first Russian woman navigator for the Soviet Air Forces. The following year she began teaching as the first female instructor at the Zhukovsky Air Force Academy and then in 1935 received her certification as a flight instruments trainer.\n\nIn 1934, Chinese actress Lee Ya-Ching obtained a pilot's license in Switzerland, the following year she obtained the first license for a woman from the American Boeing School of Aeronautics, and in 1936 became the first woman licensed by China as a pilot. She went on to found a civilian flying school in Shanghai that same year. Sarla Thakral was first Indian woman to fly, earning her aviation pilot license in 1936 in a Gypsy Moth solo. She later completed over 1000 hours of flight time. In 1935, Nancy Bird Walton obtained the first Australian license allowing a woman to carry passengers so that she could fly an ambulance service for the Royal Far West Children's Health Scheme. She later founded the Australian Women Pilots' Association. That same year, Phyllis Doreen Hooper earned the first women pilot's license in South Africa. The following year, she became the first female licensed as a commercial pilot and within 2 years had become the first South African woman flight instructor.\n\nIn 1936, Hanna Reitsch of Germany became the first person to fly a fully controllable helicopter and within two years, she earned the first woman helicopter pilot's license. In the prestigious Bendix Race in 1936, women not only took first place, but also second and fifth. The following year, Sabiha Gökçen of Turkey became the first trained woman combat pilot, participating in search operations and bombing flights during the Dersim Rebellion. While Gökçen was not the first to have participated in military operations, she was the first woman to have been trained as a military pilot, graduating from the Aircraft School (Tayyare Mektebi) in Eskişehir.\n\nIn 1939, the South African Women's Aviation Association (SAWAA) was formed with 110 women members. Colloquially known as the Women's Civil Air Guard, within the year, membership had swelled to between 3000 and 4000 members. With the outbreak of war, the organization changed focus to become the Women's Auxiliary of the South African Air Force.\n\nAs World War II began, women became involved in combat. In the United States, prior to the war, pilots typically flew only in good weather, so that they could judge ground position. Flying in combat required pilots to fly in varying conditions, and a push for instrument training began. By 1944 around 6,000 women had been trained as Link Trainer operators and were teaching male pilots how to read instruments. WAVES like Patricia W. Malone transitioned after the war to commercial flight simulation instruction, where women dominated the industry of flight training operators.\n\nIn 1939, Jacqueline Cochran wrote to the first lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, about using women pilots in the military. Later, Nancy Harkness Love also made a similar request to the US Army, however both women's ideas were put on hold until 1942. General Henry Arnold on September 14, 1942, put Cochran in charge of a new program called the Army Air Forces Women's Flying Training Detachment (WFTD). By August 5, 1943, the WFTD was merged with the WAFS to form the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP). The WASPs supported the military in various ways, flying new planes from factories to Army Air Force bases, worked as test pilots, worked as flying chauffeurs and helped tow targets for antiaircraft gunnery practice. The WASPS never gained full military benefits, the organization was disbanded in December 1944. WASPS finally earned veteran status retroactively in 1979.\n\nBesides working as women pilots, American women also started working as air traffic controllers during WWII. Commander Frances Biadosz was the only WAVE to wear wings for air-navigation during World War II. Women in the United States were also hired by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) to work as scientists and engineers, as well as analysts, reviewing data from windtunnels on airplane prototypes.\n\nIn 1940, Major Phyllis Dunning (née Phyllis Doreen Hooper) became the first South African woman to enter full-time military service as the Commander of the South African Women's Auxiliary Air Force (SAWAAF). In 1941, the Southern Rhodesia Women's Auxiliary Air Service was commissioned. Within a few months over 100 women recruits were providing clerical services, sewing skills, parachute packing, and serving as drivers, equipment assistants and mechanics. Another South African, Rosamund Steenkamp became the first woman in the world to fly a jet, when she flew a Gloster Meteor III in August 1945, which was still in its experimental stages, for the British Air Transport's Auxiliary Service.\n\nThe Air Transport Auxiliary (ATA), a British civilian operation during World War II, had scores of female pilots, under the command of Pauline Gower. Valérie André, a neurosurgeon and member of the French army, became the first woman to fly a helicopter in combat, while serving in Indochina (1945). Margot Duhalde, a Chilean woman, flew transport missions for the ATA during World War II and after the war became the first woman pilot of the Free French Air Forces, flying transports to Morocco. For her services, Duhalde was made a Knight of the Legion of Honour in 1946. The Royal Canadian Air Force created a Women's Division in 1942, offering women 2/3 the pay of their male counterparts. Though barred from combat and flying, women performed aircraft maintenance and served in air traffic control, in addition to other duties. By the end of the war, over 17,000 Canadian women had served in the Women's Division either at home or abroad.\n\nKorean , who had earned her pilot's license in 1927, joined the Republic of Korea Air Force in 1948 and was appointed first lieutenant. She was the founding commander of the Women's Air Force Corps in 1949, but was captured and taken to North Korea when the Korean War broke out.\n\nUnlike other countries fighting in WWII, the Soviet Union created an all-woman combat flight unit, the 599th Night Bomber Regiment or the Night Witches. This group of the Soviet Air Forces, flew harassment bombing and precision bombing missions from 1942 to the end of the World War II. The organization was first formed by Joseph Stalin on October 8, 1941 and all of the women were volunteers. The Night Witches flew 30,000 missions and \"dumped 23,000 tons of bombs on the German invaders\". The Soviets also had the only women to be considered flying aces. Lydia Litvyak was credited with different numbers of kills from various sources, but in 1990, the tally was given as 12 solo kills and 3 shared kills. Yekaterina Budanova fought combat missions over Saratov and Stalingrad and was credited with 11 kills.\n\nIn 1948 Ada Rogato, Brazil's first licensed woman pilot, became the first female agricultural pilot when she was hired by the government to crop dust coffee fields and eliminate the borer beetle that was plaguing the crop. The following year, Rogato became the first woman to fly solo over the Andes and in 1951, flew from Tierra del Fuego to Alaska, a solo flight which would take her across South America, Central America and North America. In 1948, Isabella Ribeiro de Cabral, who became Isabella de Freitas the following year, became the first woman pilot of Trinidad and Tobago. It would be another forty years, in 1988, before the first Trinidadian woman, Wendy Yawching became a captain.\n\nWomen continued to break records and fly during the 1950s. In 1951, the People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) of China enrolled 55 women trainees. When they graduated, the following year, the women represented 6 communication operators, 5 navigators, 30 on-board aircraft mechanics and 14 pilots. A second class of 160 trainees entered PLAAF in 1956, but only 44 of them completed their training.\n\nIn 1952, Earsley Barnett, American wife of Major Carl Barnett, founder of Wings Jamaica, earned the first pilot license granted to a woman in Jamaica. She later became the first Jamaican flight instructor, as well as a commercial pilot. \nJacqueline Cochran became the first woman to break the sound barrier in 1953. Cochran wanted to not only be the first woman to set a record, she wanted to be the first person to do so and by June 1953, she was the holder of \"all but one of the principal world airplane speed records for straightaway and closed-course flight.\"\n\nDuring the Korean War, former WASPs were asked to join active duty in the Air Force. Thirteen percent of the WAVES recruits by 1952 were air selected for air training, which included positions as air control personnel, aerographer's mates, electronics technicians and as other support personnel. In 1953, the WAVES lifted a ban on women serving as mechanics. was the only South Korean woman to serve as a pilot in the ROK Air Force during the Korean War.\n\nOrganizations were formed, such as the Australia Women's Pilot's Association (AWPA). Another organization was the Whirly-Girls, started by Jean Ross Howard Phelan in 1955 for women helicopter pilots. She started the group as an informal interest group, but formalized it in order to better help the members network and support each other in the male-dominated field.\n\nPakistan modeled its air force on the British Royal Air Force during the late 1950s. This allowed for more women to become involved in the military in Pakistan. In 1958 Dorothy Rungeling of Canada became her country's first woman to solo pilot a helicopter.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s, air travel was expensive and few people of color could afford to fly. U.S. segregation laws were slowly being overturned to lift barriers for not only travel, but for employment opportunities. Coupled with the influx of workers from the Indian subcontinent and the Caribbean, and the independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, British need for labor in the post-war period made recruiting of 'coloured labour' in the same period a necessity. The following decades would increasingly see more women from former colonies enter aviation.\n\nIn the 1960s, stewardesses, as flight attendants were known, were considered glamorous and exotic adventurers. Frank Sinatra's song \"Come Fly with Me\" gave birth to the jet set. Adding to the allure, Bernard Glemser's novel, \"Girl on a Wing\", and the British movie based on it, \"Come Fly with Me\" (1963), depicted stewardesses as stylish seekers of romance. Wearing custom-fitted uniforms, attendants were career women, whose looks, marital status and childlessness were guarded by industry executives, much as Hollywood starlets had been. On the one hand, they were to project an ideal of womanhood, but on the other, they were used to sell airline travel through their sexuality. The double-standard that they faced as well as the glamorous lifestyle they lived, shot to the best-seller's list with the publication in 1967 of the book, \"Coffee, Tea or Me?\" In 1963, stewardesses who held a press conference on airlines' policy of retiring stewardesses at 32, caught the attention of the country. The press conference focused attention on the airlines narrow standard of \"feminine allure\".\n\nIn 1960, Olga Tarling became the first woman air traffic controller in Australia and Yvonne Pope Sintes and Frankie O'Kane become the first female British air traffic controllers. That same year, Alia Menchari became the first woman Tunisian pilot. In 1961, Lucille Golas attained the first pilot license for a woman in Guyana to assist her husband in his mining business. Asegedech Assefa became the first Ethiopian woman to earn a pilot's license in 1962. That same year, Jacqueline Cochran became the first woman to fly a jet across the Atlantic Ocean.\nA privately funded project, of William Lovelace, the Woman in Space Program recruited women pilots in the U.S. to test them for suitability for the space program. Thirteen of the recruits passed NASA's physical requirements. Scheduled for additional testing, the United States Navy canceled use of their facilities as there were no NASA officials involved. Public hearings were held by a special Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science and Astronautics in 1962. Because NASA required all astronauts to attain an engineering degree and be graduates of military jet piloting test programs, none of the women could meet the entry prerequisites. The subcommittee took no action after the hearing. The following year, Valentina Tereshkova, an amateur Russian parachute jumper became the first woman in space.\n\nIn 1963, Betty Miller became the first woman to fly solo across the Pacific Ocean and Anne Spoerry, a French doctor living in Kenya became the first female member of the African Medical and Research Foundation's \"Flying Doctors\", operating her plane through the bush to provide needed medical assistance in remote areas. In 1964, women again made history when Geraldine Mock became the first woman to circumnavigate the globe.\n\nBecause of the unpopularity of the Vietnam War in the United States, men were not volunteering at high enough rates; however, many women were being turned away because of limits on women's work in the military. In 1967, a law was passed allowing more women into the military and to be promoted to high ranks. In 1969, Kucki von Gerlach obtained the first pilot's license issued to a woman in South West Africa, now Namibia. That same year, Turi Widerøe of Norway became the first female pilot for Scandinavian Airlines. Turi Widerøe had for years been a pilot for her fathers company Widerøe, which today is the largest regional airline in the Scandinavian countries. Turi Widerøe is still today recgognized as the western worlds first woman commercial pilot for a major airlines after she joined Scandinavian Airlines in 1967.\n\nUntil the 1970s, aviation had been a traditionally male occupation in the United States. Commerce Department regulations virtually required pilots to have flown in the military to acquire sufficient flight hours, and until the 1970s, the U.S. Air Force and Navy barred women from flying and they were routinely denied work in commercial piloting. The military did not open fighter jet flights to women until 1993. Women eventually began to enter U.S. major commercial aviation in the 1970s and 1980s, with 1973 seeing the first female pilot at a major U.S. airline, American Airlines. American also promoted the first female captain of a major U.S. airline in 1986 and the following year had the first all-woman flight crew. In other countries, women were starting to fly as pilots, such as Turi Widerøe, who was hired in late 1968, for Scandinavian Airlines System and Aeroflot had already hired women pilots.\n\nIn the 1970s, women were again, for the first time since WWII, permitted to fly in the United States Armed Forces, beginning with the Navy and the Army in 1974, and then the Air Force in 1976. By the mid-1970s, women were predicting that there would be a large increase in female pilots because of the women's liberation movement. Louise Sacchi was the first international woman ferry pilot who flew planes across the Atlantic and Pacific oceans over 340 times, more than any other non-airline pilot. In 1971 she set a speed record by flying a single-engine land plane from New York to London in 17 hours and 10 minutes, a record that still stands today. Sacchi was the first woman to win the Godfrey L. Cabot Award for distinguished service to aviation. The first graduating class of ten female Air Force officers earned their Silver Wings on September 2, 1977. These ten women were part of Class 77-08 and graduated at Williams Air Force Base. In 1978, a group of former WASPs formed the Women's Military Pilots Association (WMPA).\n\nIn 1975 Yola Cain became the first Jamaican-born commercial pilot and flight instructor. The following year, Cain became the first female pilot with the Jamaica Defence Force and in the 1980s would become the first woman pilot for TransJamaica Ltd. Four years later, in 1979, Jamaican Maria Ziadie-Haddad, became one of the first women in the Western Hemisphere to become a commercial jet airline pilot when she was hired as the first woman pilot of Air Jamaica, as a Boeing 727 second officer. Another Jamaican, Michele Yap became the first female airline captain in the Caribbean flying the Leeward Islands Air Transport's Twin Otter in 1988. The following year, Captain Yap was the first to pilot an all-female crew in the Anglo-Caribbean.\n\nOn 9 September 1976 Asli Hassan Abade soloed her first flight as the only female pilot in the Somali Air Force. In 1977 Cheryl Pickering-Moore and Beverley Drake of Guyana became the first two women pilots of the Guyana Defence Force. Drake was transferred a few months later as the first female pilot of the Guyana Airways Corporation, she would go on in the 1990s to become the first woman and African-American senior inspection analyst working for the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board. Jill Brown-Hiltz joined Texas International Airlines as a pilot in 1978, becoming the first African American woman to fly for a commercial airline in the United States. That same year, Chinyere Kalu, at the time Chinyere Onyenucheya became Nigeria's first female pilot. In 1979, Koh Chai Hong became the first woman pilot in the Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF). Continuing her military career, Koh became one of the first two female Lieutenant-Colonels in 1999. Bahamian Patrice Clarke, later Washington, entered Embry–Riddle Aeronautical University, Daytona Beach in 1979. Three years later she would become the school's first black woman to graduate with a BS in aeronautical science and her commercial pilot's certification. She would go on to become the first woman pilot hired by Bahamasair and later the first black female to command airplanes in the U.S. for a major carrier service when she was promoted to captain by United Parcel Service (UPS) in 1994.\n\nAt the close of the century, legal efforts to eliminate barriers of race and sexism in the aviation sector resulted in industry modifications in hiring practices. In the United States, in the late 1970s the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission found violations of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which the court monitored over the next decades and decreed in 1995 had been sufficiently addressed. In Africa, lack of a strong national carrier resulted in many tourism routes being overtaken by European airlines, but growth in the sector during the 1980s and 1990s saw that 26% of the market share on intercontinental flights were run by Africans. In Latin America and the Caribbean, growth in the tourism sector through the 1990s, led to dramatic expansion of the civil aviation sector, with many countries seeing airport expansions. In military services, women's roles increased during the period in North America, Europe and Asia.\n\nIn 1980, Lynn Rippelmeyer of the U.S. became the first woman to fly a Boeing 747 and four years later became the first woman to serve as captain on the craft. That same year, Olive Ann Beech was awarded the Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy from the U.S. National Aeronautic Association, for aircraft manufacturing. In 1981, Mary Crawford became the first women's flight officer in the United States Navy and that same year Yichida Ndlovu would earn the first civilian female pilot's license in Zambia. Unable to join the British Royal Air Force or local cadet forces, Elizabeth Jennings Clark of St. Lucia found a private scholarship program to offset the high-cost of training. She became the first female pilot for LIAT when she finished her training in 1983. That same year, Charlotte Larson and Deanne Schulman made history when Larson became the first woman to captain a smoke jumper aircraft and Schulman became the first woman qualified as a smoke jumper.\n\nKhatool Mohammadzai became the first Afghan woman paratrooper in 1984, the same year that Beverly Burns first served as captain on a Boeing 747 for a cross-country trip. In 1986, Rebecca Mpagi joined Uganda's National Resistance Army as its first woman pilot. She would continue to rise in the ranks until by 2008, Mpagi was a Lieutenant Colonel, serving as the head of women affairs for the Uganda People's Defence Force. In 1987, British Airlines hired their first woman pilot, Lynne Barton. and that same year Erma Johnson became the first black and first woman chair of the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport's Board of Directors. Sakhile Nyoni , a Zimbabwean woman, became the first woman pilot in Botswana in 1988. The following year the Afghan Air Force admitted Latifa Nabizada and her sister, Laliuma, as the first women to train at the military flight school. The sisters would graduate from helicopter school in 1991 becoming the first women Afghani pilots. Canadians Deanne Brasseur and Jane Foster were the first women to fly military aircraft in Canada in 1989.\nThe Royal Air Force lifted their ban on women flying and Sally Cox and Julie Ann Gibson become the first pilots to fly solo in 1990. On July 31 of 1991, the United States Senate lifted the ban on military women flying in combat. By 1998, US military women were flying combat missions from aircraft carriers. In 1992, the first female helicopter pilot to fly in Antarctica was a military officer, Judy Chesser Coffman, of the United States Navy. That same year, Lt. Kelly J. Franke of the United States Navy was the first woman pilot to be awarded the Naval Helicopter Association Pilot of the Year Award. Lt. Franke flew 105 support missions with HSC-2’s Desert Ducks detachment in Bahrain and was cited for extraordinary aviation achievements for 664.2 hours of accident free flight hours. While there were many African American women in the US military, it was 1993 before Matice Wright became the first black woman flight officer in the United States Navy. That same year, Nina Tapula became the first woman military pilot of Zambia. Harita Kaur Deol became the first female solo pilot in the Indian Air Force, in September 1994, flying an Avro HS-748 at the age of 22. Chipo Matimba became the first woman to complete the Air Force of Zimbabwe's pilot training course in 1996. On December 17, 1998 Kendra Williams was credited as the first woman pilot to launch missiles in combat during Operation Desert Fox. In 1999, Caroline Aigle received the French Air Force's fighter pilot wings and was assigned to fly the Mirage 2000-5.\n\nIn the civilian sector, Veronica Foy became the first woman pilot of Malawi in 1992 and by the close of the decade would become Malawi's first woman captain. The first black female Mawalian pilot, Felistas Magengo-Mkandawire began flying as first officer for Air Malawi in 1995. In 1993, Aurora Carandang became the first woman captain for Philippine Airlines. Asnath Mahapa, the first black South African woman, became a pilot in 1998, the same year that Nicole Chang Leng became the first woman pilot of the Seychelles. In November 1998, M'Lis Ward became the first African American woman to captain for a major U.S. commercial airline, United Airlines.\n\nMore organizations to support women in aviation careers were formed. Women in Aviation International (WAI) formed in 1990 and formalized the organization in 1994. WAI went on to establish the Pioneer Hall of Fame to honor women in aviation who had made special contributions to the field. In 1995, the Federation of European Women Pilots (FEWP) was founded in Rome. and two years later the Association for Women in Aviation Maintenance (AWAM) was formed.\n\nToday women's participation in the aviation sector is still low, but growing. As of 2010, just over 7% of certified civilian pilots (both private and commercial) in the United States were women. As of July 2014, approximately 5.12% of certified airline or commercial pilots in the United States are women. Canada has seen an increase to 18% of women in Royal Canadian Air Force jobs. Overall, in 2008, there were only 16% of women working in the manufacturing of aircraft and spacecraft. Women who work as aerospace engineers made up only 25% in the field in 2014. Women make up less than 6% of senior executive level positions in airline companies, as of 2015.\n\nPakistani pilot Ayesha Farooq was the first female fighter pilot for the Pakistan Air Force. At least 19 women became pilots in the air force in the decade from 2003. India has been very successful at recruiting women to pilot commercial airliners. In 2014, women made up 11.6% of female pilots. The global average was 3%. Women credit the extended family support systems that exist which help them balance family and career. By 2012, China's PLAAF had trained more than 300 female pilots and over 200 auxiliary air personnel. Large numbers have been trained to fly China's most advanced combat jets, including the J-10. In 2016, ATP-rated instructor pilot Wang Zheng (Julie Wang) became the first Chinese person to pilot an aircraft solo around the world, marking the emergence of women in China's general aviation sector.\n\nIn Japan, the first female captain for commercial passenger flights was Ari Fuji, who began flying as captain for JAL Express in July 2010. In terms of tourism-driven growth in the aviation sector, throughout the Asia-Pacific region, there is a shortage of pilots, which is driving gender biases to be pushed aside for women to be hired. Vietnam Airlines, a major carrier in one of fastest-growing aviation markets, has created flight-schedules that allow flexibility to deal with personal demands. EasyJet Plc provides scholarships for women pilots to help offset the high cost of training and EVA Air has actively recruited candidates from university programs.\n\nIn Africa, many of the trained pilots migrate to the Middle East or Asia where opportunities for career advancement and more sophisticated facilities exist. Women Aviators in Africa was founded in 2008 in an attempt to mentor and inspire young women to train in the aviation industry, as estimates for women in the field fall considerably below 6%. Though there is a high level of need across Africa for rural aviation, there is insufficient infrastructure to support expansion. Grass-roots efforts have seen success with training for bush pilots in transport, medical assistance and policing. Efforts are on-going to increase the numbers of women because women are less likely to move to other areas if they as able to find sufficient employment and opportunities in their own communities. As of 2016, seven of the top ten markets in terms of growth-speed of aviation were in Africa.\n\nWomen often had to work hard to prove themselves as capable as men in the field. Clare Booth Luce wrote, \"Because I am a woman, I must make unusual efforts to succeed. If I fail, no one will say, 'She doesn't have what it takes.' They will say, 'Women don't have what it takes.'\" Pioneer aviator, Claude Grahame-White felt that women were \"not 'temperamentally suited' to handle the controls of an airplane.\"\n\nDuring the first National Women's Air Derby in 1929, women flying the race faced \"threats of sabotage and headlines that read, 'Race Should Be Stopped.'\" Because flying was considered dangerous, many aircraft manufacturers in the late 1920s hired women as sales representatives and flight demonstrators. \"The reasoning was that if a woman could fly an airplane, it really could not be that difficult or dangerous.\"\n\nDespite women's participation in airplane aviation from the beginning, in 1986 a spokesperson for the Airline Pilot's Association said that the reason there were only two women Boeing 747 captains at the time was \"because women in aviation are a relatively recent phenomenon and everything in the airlines industry is done by seniority\". This also ignores the fact that Helen Richey became the first woman to fly a commercial airliner in 1934. She quit that job in ten months because the all-male pilot's union would not admit her and she rarely got to fly.\n\nThere are some passengers who will not fly an airplane piloted by a woman. In 1991, a passenger on SN Brussels Airlines refused to fly on a plane piloted by Barbara Collinet. In 2011, an IndiGo Airlines flight was delayed nearly 2 hours because a passenger \"caused a ruckus over the fact that the plane's pilot was a woman\". Biases toward women's traditional roles with men in the cockpit and women serving beverages and blankets have become ingrained, forcing women who want to fly to struggle with the attitudes of both co-workers and society. In 2016, seven passengers from an American Airlines flight en route from Miami to Buenos Aires disembarked when they learned that their crew was an all-woman crew.\n\nA survey conducted by Mitchell, Krstivics & Vermeulen in 2005 found that many women pilots were either unaware of sexism directed towards them or had not experienced any sexism directly. However, many women believe that more women are experiencing prejudice than are admitting it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5383044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5383044", "title": "Zoe Laskari", "text": "Zoe Laskari\n\nZoe Laskari (, ; 12 December 1942 – 18 August 2017) was a Greek film and stage actress.\n\nZoe Laskari was born Zoe Kouroukli in Thessaloniki, Greece, on 12 December 1942 -- not 1943 or 1944, as had been misreported during her lifetime and after her death -- into a middle class family which had a long tradition of service to the Hellenic Army. Her father was murdered during the German occupation in late 1943 and her mother in 1949 during the civil war, both by Communists. \n\nShe was raised by her maternal grandparents. In 1959, she won the title of Star Hellas (Miss Greece) - in order to participate to the pageant she added two years to her age to be of age and went on to represent Greece at the Miss Universe pageant in Long Beach, California where she made it to the semifinals. However, while her being in the United States, it was revealed that she was still legally a minor, having obscured her true age. She refused to return to Greece and stayed in New York City for about 18 months.\n\nIn 1967, she married industrialist Petros Koutoumanos, by whom she had her first daughter, Martha Koutoumanou. Their marriage ended in 1971. In June 1976, she married criminologist Alexandros Lykourezos, by whom she had a second daughter, Maria-Eleni Lykourezou.\n\nDue to her success at the beauty pageant, director Giannis Dalianidis, offered her the starring role in \"O katiforos\", a 1961 film, whose success gave her a rapid popularity and she shortly signed an exclusive contract with the biggest Greek film production company at the time, Finos Film. The films in which she appeared ranged from dramas to comedies and musicals. Some of her later movies were \"Stefania\" (1966) and \"Oi Thalassies oi Hadres\" (1967). Other Laskari film hits were \"Nomos 4000\", \"Merikoi to protimoun kryo\", \"Koritsia gia filima\", \"Dakrya gia tin Ilektra\", \"Mia kyria sta bouzoukia\" and \"Marihouana stop\".\n\nHer stage work included famous plays like Edward Albee's \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\", the ancient Greek tragedy \"The Trojan Women\" by Euripides and Neil Simon's \"Barefoot in the Park\". Her theatrical hits include the play \"Oi erastes tou Oneirou\" which was also her first play in Athens. Laskari's first television appearance was her leading role in the TV series \"Romaios kai Ioulieta\" in 1976.\n\nLaskari died on 18 August 2017 at Porto Rafti, from undisclosed causes. She was survived by her two daughters, Martha Koutoumanou and Maria-Eleni Lykourezou, and her husband, Alexandros Lykourezos.\n\n"}
